https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41820.Pebble_in_the_Sky
He finds himself on an Earth marred by high levels of radiation, presumably from past nuclear wars, that (scientific impossibility) apparently hasn't resulted in any physical ill effects to Earth's population, but has resulted in Earthmen being completely ostracized from humanity's galactic society as third-class citizens.
And although this future Earth has a far lower population than now, The Powers That Be believe that there are not enough resources to go around, so this is an Earth where everyone over age 60 is euthanized, unless you're a government bigwig or some such.
This work is his first novel — parts of the Foundation series had appeared from 1942 on wards, in magazines, but Foundation was not published in book form until 1951.
یکی بسوی آینده و دیگری بسوی گذشته، در این کتاب قهرمان داستان از قرن بیستم به زمانی میرود که حکومتها کهکشانی شده اند، امپراطوری راه شیری دارای حداقل دویست میلیون سیاره تحت قیمومت خود دارد.
3.5*
Thus, even in his first novel, Asimov maintains a firm grasp on the book's constantly shifting developments.Schwartz, obviously a Jewish character close to the author's Jewish heart, is a hugely sympathetic fellow for the reader to identify with, as is Arvardan, a Galactic citizen who is liberal enough to accept the low-grade Earthfolk as equals, and even fall in love with an Earthwoman.
Another interesting look into Asimov's Empire. This was the first published in the Empire series, but the 3d overall. I wound up reading it first, but it fits in well with his Foundation trilogy. The same themes, overarching history, & such.This one deals with a man of today suddenly transplanted into a far flung future where Earth is a pariah among worlds. He has to deal with a little wild tech, but mostly this concentrates on prejudice & fanatics. Well done, especially for the times.
Unbeknownst to even the scientist operating the Synapsifier, not only does it improve Schwartz’s ability learn, it eventually brings him the power to read minds… Wow. Great stuff!Now, add in a megalomaniac high in Earth’s government who intends to bring the entire galaxy to its knees with his secret weapon, an Outworlder archaeologist who wants to prove that Earth is the original planet of humanity (against great opposition) and a pretty girl, and you have a wonderful story full of all the classic science fiction action and adventure you could want.On this background, Asimov also delves into racial prejudice, decries the atom bomb and comments on political ineptitude, making the novel richer than it otherwise would be.This is also the last of the trilogy now dubbed “The Galactic Empire” series (although it certainly was not written as a series and is a standalone novel), leading me with great excitement and pleasure to Asmiov's Foundation series!
He steps through a wormhole in space and ends up in a future world where he has exotic Super Powers -Like what, I hear you ask?
He can obtain a deadly attack as White from the variation of the Spanish which starts 1.
If you can play through that and not conclude that Boris had Super Powers, then all I can say is that you're a far more skeptical person than I am..._________________________________Another demonstration of how Google is steadily depriving us of our sacred right to bullshit.
The game is indeed a Spanish with 5.
Unfortunately, the guy with the Super Powers is Black!
Greatly entertaining, though that's no surprise. After a somewhat slow start, it turns wonderfully tense. Although this is the most cartoonish villain I've encountered in an Asimov book, the rest of the characters have the same "realness" that I've come to expect from his casts. Even though the Galactic Empire books don't really relate to each other on a plot or character level, it's been interesting to watch the Empire develop from one book to the next. I don't know yet how it will relate to the later Foundation books, but I'm still interested in going forward chronologically.
The plot of the novel sneaks up on you, where you think it's going to mostly be able Schwartz and his acclimation into future society, but he hardly even gets a chance to become used to his surroundings before people start chasing him in the name of science, until he gets the ability to fight back.
I almost didn't think we'd make it through!" It's the collision of ideas that sparks the mind here, as everyone tries to imagine the future in their own way, and coming to a type of happy medium doesn't seem to be an option.

A violent history has turned far-future Earth into a world whose surface is unpleasantly radioactive and which is ignored whenever possible.
While Joseph struggles to understand his new circumstances, Bel Avardan, a renowned archaeologist from Sirius is visiting Earth to pursue his disregarded theory that humanity may have originated from a single planet rather than (as is the prevailing theory) evolving in parallel forms on many worlds.
Pebble in the Sky was Asimov's first published novel, predating the collection of Foundation into a novel by a year.
Not the best Sci-Fi there is, but still pretty readable 70 years after being published.
Peple said the early books Asimov wrote on his galactic empire were a little raw and ultimately quite skippable.
I didn't want to believe it, mostly because I had yet to not love one of Asimov's works.This trilogy of books however haven't had the greatness I expect of Asimov.
Concentrating on smaller stoires when a subject as big as a whole galactic empire beckoned to be explored.I found myself enjoying this one quite a bit in places but also being completely disengaged with it at times.
Not terrible Sci-Fi just not Asimov good.Hopefully I will return to Asimov a little later and his more refined work won't let me down
Reading Pebble can be as much about opening a time capsule of historically dissociated technological prophecies as it can be about the adventure and intrigue of its plot.Though you might not expect it from Asimov, a writer who tends to indulge fantasies of million-world-strong galactic empires, sentient robots, and dangerous neighboring stars, Pebble in the Sky is a novel about "mere" time travel (with galactic empires set to just the background), and the shell-shocking effects of arriving very suddenly in a foreign culture.
Jako dobra prica, ali u konkurenciji predhodne dve iz serijala o Carstvu verovatno i najslabija.
Asimov jos jednim izolovanim incidentom, ali ovoga puta na teritoriji same planete Zemlje, kolevke citave ljudske civilizacije, koja i dalje pati od posledica radijacije, o cemu ste mogli da citate u predhodnim knjigama iz velikog serijala (Roboti, Carstvo, Zaduzbina), konktetno u knjizi Roboti i Carstvo, govori o tome kako je Galakticko Carstvo jos jednom spletom cudnih okolnosti izbeglo smrtonosnu pretnju.
Glavesine u malo i uspevaju da citavom svemiru zadaju smrtonosan udarac, medjutim na put im se ispcio neko apsolutno neocekivan.
(2013 Asimov Re-Read, book 2)So when I decided to revisit Asimov this year, my battle plan was to do the original Foundation Trilogy interspersed with the three Galactic Empire novels in the order of publication. I enjoyed  Foundation  as much as I did back in high school, but I remembered having a hard time with Pebble in the Sky. I'd hoped that I'd appreciate it more coming to it as an adult, but while it has plenty of interesting ideas, they don't quite fit together as a novel. This was Asimo
However, instead of sticking with Schwartz finding himself in a strange new world, the plot veers all over the place, bringing in an archaeologist from Sirius, a scientist experimenting on enhancing people's brains, his plucky daughter, a family of farmers hiding an elderly relative from the law, and a power-mad politician planning to wage a one-planet war against the whole of the Galactic Empire.Seriously, Pebble in the Sky has about as many plot threads and point-of-view characters as a Tom Clancy novel, but at 200 pages has none of the length required to do any of the book's ideas justice.
It has been a while since I read this, so I decided to listen to it as part of my listening homework.
It is an excellent, all too believable, story about a possible future earth that is radioactive with a much diminished population from the mid 1900s, which is when Joseph Schwartz is from.
However, the rest of the sci fi in this story is wonderful.
He has a strong moral compass but also the intelligence to know when to make use of his unique skill to read minds and even control or kill through his mind touch.
aveam așteptări să fie ok (o mai citisem în anii 80 și atunci aveam gusturi mai simple) - când colo, am fost surprins, mi s-a părut chiar foarte bună, la cât, 70 de ani de când e scrisă? revin cu o recenzie în ceva timp
Oldukça güzel hikaye, oldukça akıcı anlatım. İmparatorluk serisinin 3. Kitabı. Fakat ben bu seriyi yazarın yazım tarihi sırasına göre takip etmeyi planladım. Robot ve vakıf serisinin de 50 lerde yazılan kitaplarını ön sıraya aldığım gibi. Kitabın baş kahramanı Joseph Schwarz bir terzi ve günümüz dünyasından bir anda kendini gelecekte buluyor. Orada dünya dışından gelen arkeolog Arvardan, dünyalı Dr. Shekt ve kızı Pola ile birlikte çözümü zor bir komployu çözmeye çalışıyorlar. Hikaye oldukça heyecanlı. Teori olarak Wells in Dünyalar Savaşından yararlanıldığını düşünüyorum.
The style is basically fully developed, and (in his fictional writing) did not change a great deal over the next forty years.In terms of the rest of Asimov's fiction, Pebble in the Sky is set in the galaxy ruled by the Galactic Empire based on Trantor whose downfall is the starting point of the Foundation trilogy.
Earth is a galactic backwater, largely radioactive, ruled by a religious cult in uneasy co-existence with the Galactic authorities, a portrayal clearly based on the position of Judea in the first century Roman Empire.
His main character, Joseph Schwarz, plucked from 1949 and projected into this galactic future, talks of wars and nuclear weapons, but neither he nor Asimov ever explicitly mention Jews or what happened to them historically and in WWII in particular.
It sounds like some quirk of self-censorship and feels odd now.Inevitably there are other moments of awkwardness and contrivance in the narrative, and today an aura of quaintness hangs over it, but still, comparing Pebble to the Foundation books left me wondering simply, what went wrong?The 2008 Tor edition states that Asimov was born in Brooklyn; other sources agree on Russia.2015 June 24
lo ripeterò fino alla nausea..Asimov lo adoro!Mi ha catturato da subito...lette solo due pagine e già non volevo separarmi più da libro!Insomma non capita tutti i giorni di camminare e ritrovarsi in un'altra era!Letto ovunque...lavoro (in pausa) treno, metro, mentre cucino, prima di andare a dormire...insomma era sempre con me!Il libro ci introduce nella galassia precedente al ciclo delle fondazioni.Shwarz sarto di sessant'anni cammina per la strada e zac!
el primero de ultimo, pero la verdad esto no afecta en nada ya que las historias no están relacionadas, se hace alusión a algunos planetas pero nada mas...
Asimov es simplemente brillante, las historias son tan creativas, que es rajado pensar que fueron escritas hace tanto tiempo.
Algo recurrente es que la series de asimov son cíclicas, comienzan donde la luna (como ejemplo, cero spoilers) es un lugar mierda en el espacio, pasa a ser pichuda dentro del universo y después es una mierda de nuevo, en el medio pasa de todo...
As a long time fan of Isaac Asimov, I enjoy almost everything he wrote.
Nevertheless, Asimov tells a good story.
The idea of Earth being hated by the Outer Worlds, instead of being the center of everything, was an unusual idea at the time this was written.
I also liked the idea of a man from our time going so far in the future that everything he knew was lost forever.
The dialogue is dated and the portrait of the main female character will irk some readers.Nevertheless, a quick interesting read that captures the feeling of 1950's Classic SF really well.
For any SF reader .
Such an interesting book. I think that in a way this book should be read really close to 1q84 not only because they have a similar starting point, but also because they complete each other. The story was fascinating and I have to admit, very close to the end I was so much into it that I almost screamed in anger when it seemed that there is no hope left for the Galaxy. However, there is one thing that I couldn't swallow, and that is Bel and Pola's relationship, which at times felt forced and out of the blue.
my favorite type of sci-fi! time travel comparing pre-present day to the far future. In this future, Earth is the embarrassment of the galaxy, backward with outdated traditions and customs and a deep distrust of the rest of "mankind", who more than returns the sentiment. Lots of talk about radiation (written prior to our full understanding of radioactive weapons) and centered on one poor guy who accidentally slips through time because of it. A really fantastic book. Asimov's reputation is well-earned.
This was my first Issac Asimov novel, and it made me an instant fan. Any man who can think of a story like a simple tailor being lifted into the future over a crack in the sidewalk, and actually make it substanial and brilliant, is a genius in my books. A must read for all science fiction lovers as this is where it all begins...
One of my all time favourites by Asimov. Have re-read it several times over the years. one of the central plots of the old, elderly being thrown aside like they don't matter, left deep impact on my mind when i read it as a school student. It also has one of the most creative+accidental modes of time travel i've seen in scifi so far.
I first read this book in 7th grade. It was my first science fiction book, and it hooked me. I think it is the reason I’m always looking for “fish out of water books. Asimov did a great job in placing a late 1940’s Chicago tailor into a world that was so different as to be unrecognizable to the main character.
Maybe 3 stars. This first novel of Asimov's was fun although the plot had some flaws. Perhaps most interesting was seeing the appearance of certain ideas which show up in his later books as well.
Maybe 3½ stars. This first novel of Asimov's was fun although the plot had some flaws. Perhaps most interesting was seeing the appearance of certain ideas which show up in his later books as well.
There are far too many coincidences, almost no science and the is barely a plot. Forgettable characters, no twist, nothing innovating.It really has absolutely no redeeming value.
