https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564854.Papa_Married_a_Mormon
"Papa Married a Mormon" is the first book in a trilogy also including "Uncle Will and the Fitzgerald Curse" and "Mamma's Boarding House." All three are great books.
All of his books have been very popular, even though many of them are now out of print.Here are some examples of Fitzgerald's fictionalization in action: Katie, Fitzgerald's sister, appears in this trilogy (there is even a photo of her) but not in his later "Great Brain" books.
While in the "Great Brain" books, the entire Fitzgerald family is Catholic, in this trilogy, the dad is Catholic, the Mom is LDS, and most of the kids are Catholic, but one is LDS (read the book to find out who!).
I absolutely LOVED this book.
I don't know if I am bias because I am a Mormon, but I think anyone would enjoy this amazing story of an amazing family (written by a family member).
This book was well written and so so so interesting.
I loved the stories, they made me laugh and cry.
I loved the themes of the book: religious tolerance, humanity, love, God is love, family is love, loyalty...so many that were so good!
Loved it..wish there was a sequel, but it wouldn't be the same without Tom and Tena.
What a way to start out my year in books.
I loved this book! I read all of "The Great Brain" books by the same author when I was a kid, but this book was more autobiographical and was written for adults. The basic message is one of love and understanding. It was well written, humorous, and touching.
I liked this story because what could have ended up being a story of brokenness and bigotry, was instead a story of love overcoming.
Finally!
A good book after so much mediocrity!
I wasn't sure what to expect with this book after picking up what has to be the first edition (1955) from my local library.
I was pleasantly surprised by how captivating the story, setting, and characters were.
I appreciated that Fitzgerald did not dodge religious issues or paint the Mormons as always tolerant-- they were persecutors too.
If Fitzgerald truly did base his fictional parents on his real ones they were people ahead of their time in terms of acceptance and treatment of those with differences…
I liked this quite a lot.
As many reviewers have noted, this book and its two partners-in-trilogy are out of print and as such, hard to get a hold of but worth the effort.
If you read and loved the "Great Brain" books as a kid I think this is a must for you as an adult.
(Same author) If you like stories of the early frontier and the characters who inhabited and settled it, (like "These is My Words"); If you like stories where the good guys do bad things sometimes and the bad guys often pull through to save the day; If you like stories of humble, hard-working people who live by the morals of love, tolerance and forgiveness, this is for you.
Those are the reasons I liked it.
Oh, nostalgia.
I forgot how great of a storyteller this author is.
He transports you right back to the "Wild West" and it was such a delight to read.
I also loved the way the story was written, about religion and how everyone can be a good Christian, regardless of what religion they belong to.
He wrote a very unbiased story about the Mormons in this part of Utah and what they worked for and represented.
It was a great story of tolerance and forgiveness.
And now, I will delve into the stack of "The Great Brain" books that was also loaned to me.
What an inspiring woman -and she is indeed a real woman - the author's mother...As a child, I ADORED Fitzgerald's Great Brain books.
I had a teacher who ADORED them and read them aloud to us with just the perfect inflection in her voice (thank you Mrs. D!!) ...we were CAPTIVATED...
The author has a real down-home, folksy way of telling a story that draws you into his world and leaves you with a cozy,warm feeling but you will also learn a lot and laugh a lot....Their Sunday night ritual sounds like such a heartwarming tradition...
It makes me want to recreate a similar tradition in my own family...Just a really wonderful read...
I felt that the overall message of the book was that it doesn't matter what religion you are, if you are a good person, you're fine.
It made me feel like I was on my mission again where I heard a thousand times that it doesn't matter what church you go to as long as you go to church.
The most cruel and intolerant people in the book were the most religious, while those who were not practicing members of their religions were the most christlike.
I love the Great Brain series, but this book, written for adults, was much better.
Especially because The Great Brain is fiction, based on actual events in the author's life, while this was (I believe) meant to be non-fiction.
He does qualify that slightly in the introduction, but on the whole, I believe it's accurate.
Anyway, it's fascinating to read about turn-of-the-century Utah, and especially about the divergent religions and backgrounds of the main characters in a small Mormon town.
It was a very tidy lesson in the dangers of bigotry and the author makes the point over and over that religions matter less than character.
This is our 1st ever family Classic.
I have never read a story that addresses christian religions in such a great way.
We relate to this story in our family.
The discussions we had about this family and their experiences have lead us to plan to read it again as a family.
Each night we read this out loud as a group we were sad when we had to stop.
So many great nuggets of goodness amid difficult situations.
Families are complicated.
Communities are diverse.
I can only hope that my son will be able to write or maybe just remember so many childhood highlights about his papa that married a mormon someday.
While not a religious book per se, this book was a wonderfully enjoyable view into the lives of those people who settled the Price area of Southern Utah (often a real look into the wild West!), including fun and touching stories and examples of what it truly means to live as a Christian. I laughed and cried and recommend this book to anyone interested in the history of the late 1800's.
A fascinating depiction of life in Utah before statehood. Many of the individuals that shaped characters within The Great Brain books appear, but they are so differently depicted here (and the delicate political problems faced by both Gentiles and Mormons in this time before statehood is captured so wonderfully).
Excellent, excellent, excellent. Mr. Fitzgerald gives us a glimpse of the settling of Utah. He recounts the story of his father and mother and brings the wild west to life. It has all the elements of a great story; gunfights, love, and the great brain.
I read this years ago, and had forgotten it until I ordered a couple of Fitzgerald's Great Brain books recently. It is based on Fitzgerald's life with some fiction thrown in I believe, and I remember being very entertained by it. All my friends should read it!
I didn't know what to expect from this one, so I was surprised by how much I enjoyed it.
I like the book's approach to religion and admired the portrayal of the author's parents and the way they worked to build bridges between religious communities.
the author was raised in a household with a Catholic dad and a Mormon mom along with Methodist influences, but I thought he treated all religious communities fairly by just depicting the individuals belonging to each, including the agnostic or irreligious members of the "bad part of town".I felt the story was strongest up to the point when his parents were married.
There were many colorful stories about him and his exploits.I really adored the character of Mama, whose courage and convictions, and just her basic goodness are an inspiration to me.
What is perhaps the true inspiration for the fictional story of Tom figuring out how to run Mr. Standish the mean schoolteacher out of town, Tom's brilliant plot to rid them of their Aunt Cathy (Papa's overly strict and overly literal Catholic sister who came out west to save them from their heathenism), was both funny and touching.Overall, the book was like The Great Brain books, but just with some reality and adult complexity thrown in.
A delightful read. I laughed and was entertained from beginning to end.
I love all the wild west stories and reading them for the 4th (or 5th?) time was an absolute pleasure.A few things struck me a bit differently now, reading as a grown up with a family of her own-- as much as Mamma is clearly beloved by everyone, and a wonderful example of a good Christian woman, I did sort of wonder how she let everyone just wind up Catholic.
Why didn't everyone just follow her example?!?!?)The dialogue feels a bit wooden at times, and I can't decide if that's just because people used to speak so much more eloquently or if Fitzgerald is just a romantic, but it didn't really bother me.
I just worried it might bother other people.But wow, I love this book.
I never would have read this book had Bridget not recommended it.
This is a funny and interesting perspective of living in and around Mormons in the early days of Utah.
I love, love, love that this is non-fiction!
There are some people in these stories who have amazingly good characters--and others who had not so good characters, but make some mighty changes in their lives.
I love how down to earth and non-preachy the style is.
Thanks Bridget for another spot on recommendation.
I gave 4 stars instead of 5 because it was a little hard for me to get into in the beginning.
I was a little lost in all the back ground history, but as the story unfolded I really enjoyed the funny and almost unbelievable stories.
And I thought the ending was really sweet.I was a little leery of reading this book when my mom gave it to me, thinking it was just about Mormon history.
I know it was meant as a term of endearment, but it seemed a little creepy when this grown man was calling his 17 year old new bride 'girl' all the time.
I have heard about this book all of my life, but I had never read it.
It is the story of a devoted Catholic man who comes to the Utah territory and finds love at first sight with a Mormon girl.
He finds a true friend in an unlikely person and then the story unfolds.
The story is set in Southern Utah, which is my home so it is extra exciting to read of the different locations and events that happened.
I've never heard of many of the places so I'm wondering how much of the book is fiction and how much is truth.
My grandmother had this book on her bookshelf and I found it as a teenager.
It immediately became on of my favorite books, ever, and I was thrilled when she gave it to me.
His mother was Mormon and his father Catholic.
He tells the story of their courtship and how he and his siblings were raised.
The book is full of humorous tales of childhood adventure, tumultous relationships and love and forgiveness.
There are stories of conflicts between the Mormons and others, but there is also an underlying thread of how to resolve differences and get along.A terrific read.
Someone donated this book to the library and as happens when you work in a library I got first dibs reading this.
I didn't realize then how awesome, heartfelt and hilarious this book would be.
Definitely a favorite of mine.
I selfishly kept it not just because I loved it, but because it was a first edition and deserved to be cared for and preserved in it's fairly good condition.
I've been meaning to replace it with another edition but it's hard to find.
This is the novel for adults that created the world of "The Great Brain." In this novel the author describes how his parents came to Utah and met.
It gives a lot of back story that readers of the Great Brain books would love.I read the book with the expectation that it was a memoir (the library had it in the Biography section), but it is clearly a novel.
I look forward to the two sequels, if I can find them.
If anybody else is as obsessed with these novels as I am I found a website where someone spent some time trying to research the facts behind the family and the stories.http://www.findingfitzgerald.comRecommended for kids and adults.
I loved this!! I am a big fan of authors telling their life story-- what made them into the writer they are. Though not entirely based on true events, John's story was honest, adventurous, and lovely to read. I especially enjoyed the melding of two cultures & religions within the old west. How this family learned from each other while always being true to themselves was so refreshing. I was hesitant to pick it up-- expecting something completely different. I'm glad I didn't pass on this one, I would've missed a great treasure.
A child reminisces about his family while growing up in Utah in the 1870s-80s.
In the style of Cheaper By the Dozen or I Remember Mama, the author tells stories about his parents, relatives and the people he knew.
It captures the Wild West in all its politically incorrect (by today's standards)glory.
And yet, despite that political incorrectness, people got along or at least respected The Other Guy. To a point.
It was a violent place & time.
A story of Melting Pot America...where Love & Tolerance ultimately win.
I will confess that my eyes misted up a couple of times.
This book grabs your attention from the get go but then gets a little long in the middle before finally picking up at the end. I think I would have given it higher points if it had been completely a true story...it read like one....but from looking up on the internet it is more a conglomerate of people and places. It is very realistic and many people/parts are real. Worth the read. And makes me want to re-read the "Great Brain" books. (I must have been in elementary the last time I read them.)
Category: Book set in your home state (Utah). LOVE this book. This is not the first time I've read it; I first discovered it in high school. Papa (a catholic) marries Mama (a Mormon). It is about their courtship, marriage and subsequent life in southern Utah, raising a family of 4 boys and 1 girl. One of the boys is the biggest wheeler dealer in town and is known as the Great Brain. (JD Fitzgerald also wrote the Great Brain series of children's books). This book is fiction, but based on Fitzgerald's childhood in Price, Utah.
Thoroughly entertaining "historical biography" of Fitzgerald's family in early Utah territory.
Reads like fiction (which some of it probably is, or at least history as modified be repeated retelling in the family for generations).
It really shows the rough and tumble features of frontier towns (with entire businesses being lost and won in poker games and people being gunned down a the drop of a hat).
Not sure how accurate any of this is, but it makes a great story full of human drama and western frontier lore.
Papa (a Catholic - sort of) marrying a Mormon woman adds to the interest.
