https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/582067.Anti_Intellectualism_in_American_Life
Now that Trump, that "stable genius," is our president, perhaps I should read it again.What this book shows us is that anti-intellectualism in America has been around a long time.
Hofstadter doesn't stop there, but goes on to show how this bias against the intellectual is a strain going through every aspect of American life, including agriculture, business, labor organization and even education itself.Hofstadter writes in a clear accessible style, and--although the book is more than forty-five years old--it still has a lot to say to us about politics today.
The intellectual is seen as wordy, conceited, pretentious, addled by over-examination of issues, contemptuous of practical men, a bleeding heart, and an outlier who defies faith, morality and egalitarianism.
Highly educated and intellectually accomplished, he also was a big game hunter, a Rough Rider, a rancher, a man’s man.
After America became industrialized and business more complex, higher education began offering more engineering, accounting and law.
Education became accepted as necessary for business, but traditional intellectual pursuits were still considered irrelevant.
The book was largely a historical overview on the systematic repression/suppression of intellectual thought in America.
And I'm using overview in a very poor way — it was excruciatingly detailed.
However, it is strikingly relevant for application in our current society.
America has long, deep-rooted traditions that downplay and push away intellectual thought, something that in Europe is, at least, more appreciated in an overall sense.
The final chapter is nearly a call to arms, for American intellectuals to counteract the ignorance that exists within our country, and not stand for being conformed into the current American society.
To read it is to attain a fuller understanding of the rise of modern political figures such as Sarah Palin, why our education system – particularly our high schools – are crumbling from the weight of lowered expectations and half-assed education policy, and how and why those in power tolerate intellectual freedom and creativity only to a certain extent.Diving into religion, business, politics, psychology and higher education – among other subjects – Hofstadter shows that anti-intellectualism – very roughly put, the view that knowing how to correctly push the buttons on a dishwasher is more important than knowing how to design or manufacture one, or to explain how one works – is hardwired in American culture and life.In Hofstadter’s book, for example, you learn about the key religious zealots in the country’s history who disdained books and adamantly believed that science was putting people on the path toward bad behavior.You also learn about “one-hundred percenters,” people who know all they need to know, people who don’t want to hear or read another point of view, people who believe that all they need to know is what they glean from their own experience.
This book is not nearly as snotty as the title makes it sound.
It's full of amazing unknown social history of early America and draws a startling line showing many of the ways that the unique American character was formed from the early 1600's on.
And it does so largely without judgement, even though the overall thrust of the book is an argument that the disapproval of education and knowledge for their own sake tend to undermine our social structures and retard our advancement as a nation.
It's a very well-written, highly readable (if sometimes dense) book and it will alter forever your perceptions of America.
I first read this book in my Intellectual History of the United States class when I was in college a hundred years ago and I've felt the need to revisit it about every decade.
In light of the level of what constitutes political, social, and cultural discourse in the United States today and out of total frustration with my college students who have emerged from schools that want them to "feel good about themselves" and have both lowered expectations and inflated grades, it was time to pull it off the bookshelf, dust it off, and give it a reread.
Essential reading that has not aged at all. There was so much here--commentary, history, and well written analysis of current events. Though the current events are now history, it was still totally relevant. This is a must read.
It is by no means simple, there have been multiple factions in the religious sphere here, some were forces for enlightenment/reason/knowledge and others were anti-intellectual forces that cudgeled people with blind dogmatism and preached constant and full submission to authority.
There is also an interesting class angle that is intermixed within all this, the main one that comes to mind is the elite New England uppercrust religious intellectuals who held a lot of power and sway in that region and often times at the federal level.
I would say the problem is not the politician, the problem are the people who want to be led and manipulated in order to remain ignorant and to justify their hate of the other.
Ayn Rand wrote a book slightly before this one was published ‘The New Intellectual’, she knows herself and saw no reason for redefining herself and as always with her she offers nothing but platitudes.
People still deny evolution today, but science makes it all the easier to ignore them, and we don’t have to redefine who we are in order to defeat them as Hofstadter says we should.
Written in the early 1960's this book has shaped my thinking like few others. Goes a long way to explain the history of intellectual life in America, examining religion, formal education, business, and politics. If we wonder why Americans seem "dumber" than ever, this book offers an argument that stands up well today. One of my all-time favorites.
(WOW WHAT A LINE!!) When may we look less of true originality he asked than at a time when every child is taught to repeat this inane self-laudation and all distinction of individual thought is lost because no man has room for anything else than a barren idea of progress, a contempt for the past and a blinding reverence for an unknown future?”•	“The whole generation is womanized; the masculine tone is passing out of the world; it’s a feminine, a nervous, hysterical, chattering, canting age, an age of hollow phrases and false delicacy and exaggerated solicitudes and coddled sensibilities, which, if we don’t soon look out, will usher in the reign of mediocrity, of the feeblest and flattest and the most pretentious that has ever been.
Written in 1964, this book outlines the history of anti-intellectualism in our nation.
Because the book was written almost 50 years ago, it delves deeper into the subject matter then most contemporary work.
This book has become a cornerstone work on the subject, and is a must read for anyone interested in the subject matter.
Sadly again, the later part of the book focuses on reformation of the education system, something that never truly took place.
And the history presented shows that America will continue to deal with bias against some of the most intelligent member of society for many years to come.
At some points, he's more than happy to include artists and writers in the camp of "the intellectual," but at other times, he only refers to those intellectuals working within a specifically positivist tradition.
This makes a great deal of sense given the time in which the book was written, but comes off as a bit preposterous today.
This, to me, makes me question the work as a text in the history of ideas.But all of that being said, it's an entertaining romp through the history of my home country's idiocies.
This is an essential history of US along the strand of the uneven relationship of intellectualism and the society at large.
As the author, a political scientist and an academic, said about Eisenhower’s era: “After twenty years of Democratic rule, during which the intellectual had been in the main understood and respected, business had come back into power, bringing with it “the vulgarization which has been the almost invariable consequence of business supremacy.” We are now in the general theme with some variation, this time is a loud-mouth, loud colored businessman himself.
I thought it would be kind of interesting reading on whacked out stuff like the Know-Nothings, the KKK, nativism, the Birchers, and so on, but it turns out it’s mostly about the influence of Evangelicals on our politics and culture throughout American history.
I mean, that's the thesis and what the book is setting out to do, and most of it probably does count as anti-intellectual under a strict definition of the term, but it sort of rankled to see any form of populism or attempts at democratic participation in institutions getting lumped in with Bircher loons.
Recent political development in this country make it seem that gossip, hearsay, "alternative facts," wishful thinking, invective, and shaming the intellectual class have become coin of the realm at the highest levels of government.
This book points backward to the formation of anti-intellectual tendencies in American history, and points to the present and future with concern.
ANTI-INTELLECTUALISM IN AMERICAN LIFE is a book that should be read; the fact that it's now over 50 years old does not really "date" it because it does so well in spotting recurring (some may say, chronic) features of our public life.
In a clear, concise, thoroughly thoughtful way, Hofstadter recounts the origins and trajectory of America’s love / hate (mostly hate) relationship with the intellectual in American society.
The American demand for practicality has had little patience for the idea of “knowledge for knowledge’s sake” and even in the Progressive era, those calling themselves “intellectuals” were only accepted to the extent that they had unique knowledge that made them useful as “experts”.
My only criticism of the book is that in that Hofstadter wrote it in 1963, some of, what for him, contemporary examples of intellectualism now seem dated.
His perception that Americans were being dragged to the 'lowest common denominator criterion' of thought and 'technician conformity' of lifestyle would seem to have arrived with the current political impasse and cultural Know-Nothingism.In this book, one of Hofstadter's best, he identified the causes for the suspicion that terrorizes American intellectuals and kills the imagination.
At several points in this examination, Hofstadter deals with the love affair Americans have for applied science and technology versus the theoretical.A large part of the book is taken up with the philosophy of John Dewey and the focus and purpose of American education, particularly secondary education.
Of course, a good part of the history that Hofstadter treats here comes well before the cold war and the American witch hunts, but it does seem that since this book was published, an anti-intellectual strain that conflates fanciness of all kinds with specifically economic power has caused great damage to the quality of American life and the character of American struggles for equity, and that a knee-jerk fear of anything even vaguely socialist is preventing the disentangling of those two ideas.
Learning physiology, for example, has at times been considered less useful than learning how to exercise, although the latter is an extension of the former.
Continuing my winding journey looking at conspiracy theories and the culture that spawns and supports them, I came across this gem from Hofstadter regarding the anti-intellectualism of the united states from the first colonizers to the 1950's. Awesome piece of scholarship and very in depth. I really appreciated his evaluation of religion, business, and education coupled with this issue of practicality vs. intellectuality. Superb. Long. A little dry in places. But all in all, a worthy study to check out.
Apparently we've been here before. Many times. Fascinating read that perhaps should have been two books (the last section on education may have been better served as its own volume) - a history of America's distrust and occasional appreciation of 'experts' and the 'elite', from its colonial days through the Eisenhower/McCarthy years. Just think: Hofstadter wrote this in the 60s, and he's saying the same things that people are saying in the media now. Ugh.
I got this book at a school library sale a few years ago. I was surprised at how much of the information in the book sort of ingratiated itself into my mind and became natural, like a re-interpretation of common knowledge. It's almost like when you know something abstract and then someone puts it into tangible words and everything becomes clearer, except I hadn't really thought about/realized it before in this case. It is hard to explain.
First published in 1963, and still relevant in 2014. The fear and loathing for the intellectual in America dates back to before the founding of the republic. It periodically bubbles up, and has never gone away.
How can the most powerful country on Earth reject science, encourage religous superstition and create the tea party? Read on!

Overall the book is well worth reading for an understanding of how such a large proportion of America acquired anti-intellectual sentiments, as well as for providing insight into many cultural and social aspects of American life and history.The book begins with an insightful investigation into what it means to be an intellectual in the first place.
This information is still so relevant today. Not much has changed.
As a result there is an emphasis on the commercial applications of science and a resulting decline in basic research and knowledge for its own sake with no apparent value in the marketplace.Education:Does American society place great importance on recruiting, hiring and retaining the very best educators for our children?
Curriculums have also drifted from an emphasis on the 3R's and science to less rigorous subjects, resulting in a less educated populous.Conclusion: Since ignorance is unlikely to solve any of the large challenges facing the country today, anti-intellectualism represents another significant hurdle to progress.
With brilliant clarity, Hofstader illuminates four main strands of American intellectualism: 1) revivalist evangelical Christianity, which (in contrast to the the historical European Protestantism) sees book learning as irrelevant or even contrary to personal faith and salvation 2) an egalitarian tradition vehemently hostile to all elites, including an intellectual elite3) an emphasis on practicality and education for commerce, rather than as a good in itself, meaning that liberal studies are often sidelined or actively opposed;4) a desire to extend basic education as widely as possible that, whilst laudable in itself, perversely led to a devaluation of academic education, particularly as the need to recruit large numbers of teachers led to poorly-payed, socially marginal, class of educators (largely women, and thus distinct from the male political and capitalist establishments, who looked down at them).
