https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27692.The_Wicked_Day
"It was coming now, surely, the future he had dreaded, and yet longed for, with the strange, restless and sometimes violent feelings of rebellion he had had against the life to which he had been born, and to which he had believed himself sentenced till death, like all his parents’ kin."Well, once again Mary Stewart did not fail to captivate me – I adored this!
From the venomous Morgause, to the hotheaded Gawain, to the inveterate Arthur, to the aspiring Mordred, and to the old prophecies foretold by Merlin – all these linked together along with unrest in the far-reaching British lands will come together to decide the fate of the High Kingdom.While I missed dropping in on Merlin, I still thoroughly enjoyed the retelling of this legend.
4.5★This book is only part of a series in Goodreadsland. Lady Stewart quite clearly wrote this novel as a standalone - she just revisited a legendary world she loved. So a part of this story runs parallel to  . And some characters are realised slightly differently, most notably Nimuë in this reinterpretation of a well known legend.But once you readjust your expectations, this is a cracking tale.   Morgause remains evil - people don't have to wrong her to get bumped off and her interest in her so
The damage Morgause does to her four sons by Lot is enormous and well shown by Stewart.When Mordred becomes part of Morgause's world his instincts help to keep him safe - for a time.
Once Mordred is also part of his father's world his destiny is inevitable - although (view spoiler)[ Nimuë does try to avert it.
That expression of watchfulness - this is also Stewart's Mordred!But there are a few time lapse sequences that didn't work so well for me and in spite of my great enjoyment of this book, because of this the third part of the book didn't read so well.
She is so skilled at opening up a legend and finding a man, at filling the gaps of the story in a way that make you nod your head and agree, “it might have been like this,” that she takes my breath away.I am always tempted to say that this novel does not achieve the heights of the trilogy, but that is because I am too enamoured of Merlin, whose character touches the very soul of me.
What Stewart is able to do with this novel is every bit as amazing, for she turns a legend on its head without deviating from its particulars one iota.When Arthur fathers Mordred, Merlin tells him he has simply set the lengths of his life and the time of his death.
Mordred in this version is certainly an ambitious young man but not a ‘villain’ or evil as (Stewart herself notes) other accounts may have made him out to be, but instead perhaps a victim of circumstances.
The other Arthur book I read earlier this year was for younger readers, where although the characters were presented as human with their fair share of flaws, they come across as far more heroic (closer to the brave knights of fairy tales).
This was my first Mary Stewart and I’m looking forward to reading more of her books.
For suspicions that just chapters before he knew were unfounded.The way I read it, Stewart broke her own story’s backbone by insisting that everyone (except the women) remain blameless.
It reeks of pushing everything off onto the female characters, but she had to do it because she decided that it “didn’t make sense” for Mordred and Arthur to do things they do in some branches of the mythos — in some kind of wrong-headed attempt to marry it all together, or to follow the example of others (cough, Malory) who didn’t manage to bring it all together.
I don't read any of Marion Zimmer Bradley's books anymore, but I still like her look at the King Arthur legend much better than this series because she ties things up a lot better by looking at the growing conflict between the pagan religions and the growing spread of Christianity.
I was hoping for a different spin, but besides a few details that Stewart changes here and there, everything is the same.I think the thing that threw me a lot though is that this book was more detached than the other three.
What I liked about this last book which rounds off the story was the slant given to Modred.
In the first three books we learn very little of Mordred apart from Merlin's prophecies and his mother's (Morgaus), treachery.
Giving the reader the impression all the time that Mordred will be the typical evil hand of his mother as in most Arthur stories.
This book is almost dedicated to Mordred's rise and fall which is also inextricably connected to his father's as well.
The normal end to the Arthur saga.
If you like Arthur stories then this series definitely belongs to the "a must read" category.
What a great culmination to the series. i love the way Mary Stewart portrays Mordred in this version. I don't want to give too much away but don't expect the bad guy--traitor of Arthur we have so come to accept. This is a re-read and I still consider it a fantastic series.
The climax of course is his conflict with Arthur, but the author chooses to present it as a result of misunderstandings and unfortunate coincidences.
It is certainly quite interesting to introduce a different version of the final conflict, with the author putting us in a very nice way at Mordred's position, showing us how he perceives things, and so many questions arise on issues of justice and the inevitability of human fate, but in some places there is no such interest.
Αφήνοντας πίσω την ιστορία του Μέρλιν η συγγραφέας μας οδηγεί στην ιστορία πίσω από την τελική και μοιραία μάχη που αποτελεί τον επίλογο όλης της ιστορίας του βασιλιά Αρθούρου.
It was beautiful this was introduced, because when he was young, living as a fisherman's boy when he didn't know he was really the high king's son, he would watch the far off Orkney castle and wish to be there, feeling as though he belonged there and had some nobler destiny.I found Arthur's actions not very believable near the end, but it kept the story true to the legends.
the agony of Arthur, Guinevere and Bedwyr’s love; the friendship between Arthur and his son; the despair when, despite all, Arthur’s dreams collapse in bloody ruin.I wanted the entire book (the entire series) to read like Merlin’s visions on Bryn Myrddin or Mordred’s as he lay dying at Camlann:Then the rain, and the creak of rowlocks, and the sound of women’s weeping fading into the lapping of the lake water and the hiss of the rain falling.His cheek was on a cushion of thyme.
The Wicked Day is a wonderful addition to Mary Stewart's Arthurian trilogy.
Soon he reached the summit of the moor, and before him stretched the long, gentle slope towards the cliffs, and beyond them again the endless, shining sea."I love Stewart's versatility as an author!
She places me in a picturesque setting then just as easily sends a shiver up my spine:"So, in mutual trust, they talked, while the night wore away, and the future seemed set as fair behind the clouded present as the dawn that slowly glided the sea's edge beyond the windows.
."I highly recommend this fourth book in Mary Stewart's Arthurian Saga!
I like Stewart's retelling of Arthur & Mordred's story. We now the sad ending. I enjoy her inclusion of the Legends and her reasons for telling the story as she did.
I loved this retelling, from a very different view, of the King Arthur and Mordred story. I found this book almost more absorbing than Mary Stewart's original Merlin trilogy. I especially like how the author gave the details of the legend at the end of each book, as well as the few historical facts that are known or believed. I have always been fascinated by the King Arthur legend and found this book particularly compelling.
It was much easier to read than the middle two books of the tale of Arthur, as it held far less of the magical and mystic semi-conscious states of Merlin's "eyes".
This one was from a Mordred lens instead, the only one of the 4 books that comprise the Arthurian Saga that doesn't hold Merlin as the narrator.Evil people, power mongers galore, and the spirit of the beginning times of knighthood and mounted and armored small kingdoms dominating.
Also within those Round Table times which bridged the older gods crossing with Christianity not dogma held.
Mary Stewart wrote the quintessential Merlin/Arthur legends. I've read all the Arthur books I could find, from Le Morte Darthur, John Steinbeck's try at it (The Acts of King Arthur and His Noble Knights) to Lawhead. Nothing written can stack up to Stewart's obvious background of the history of the British Isles, and her love for the land. She breathes life into these legendary characters and makes them hers. To prove their excellence--you can still buy the four books of the series in bookstores.
This fourth book in the Arthurian Saga series followes the life and exploits of Mordred, Arthur's son.
This book approaches its subject matter from a considered and unique perspective.
Ms Stewart, on the other hand, takes a more mature and considered approach.
Far from being Arthur's arch enemy, when he is told of the prophesy that he will be his father's downfall, he does his best to avoid the fate and even considers suicide as a way to thwart the will of the gods.This is, by far, the best version of the tale of Mordred that I've ever seen.
Wow! Just wow. Full review to follow!
The subsequent author's note and the table of known historical dates makes clear the viewpoint of the author from which this tail-note to her Merlin trilogy was written.I found it strange how polarised the reviews of this book are - from the large number who love it and found it a fulfilling and moving story, to the large number who were bored by it and thoroughly disliked the central character painted by Mary Stewart.
I feel Stewart has used the known historical background, and woven from it her own legend of a plausible Mordred with whom I can entirely empathise.
The book that made me realize how much I liked Mordred, and how much it would suck to be him.
Mordred as a lad is approached by the Orkney Queen Morgause, known witch, and how she charms him to his love for her, we the reader are blessed with the knowledge of her sinisterness.No open ends, peace but mostly war, gruesome and inhuman acts of brutish instinct, deep personal flaws, bravery and nobility, and an ensemble of characters are intertwined (and fun because intertwined through the previous trilogy as well, some).Like before books, this story takes place over a long period, decades, and to know people and watch them grow up from youth to men is an experience.
3.5/5A random thing that I noticed:"Bedwyr, still with the gentleness that Mordred would never have suspected in him, said, half to himself: 'She has a lovely face. God give her rest.'"This reminded me of the ending of the poem "The Lady of Shalott" by Alfred Tennyson: "Lancelot mused a little space;He said, 'She has a lovely face;God in his mercy lend her grace,The Lady of Shalott.'"Not to mention, the lady in the book is named Elen while the lady from the poem is supposed to be, I think, named Elaine. Coincidence? I think NOT!
Po slabším začátku jsem takhle monstrózní rozjezd a konec nečekal. Nejepičtější popis osudů Artuše a Mordreda co znám.
The Wicked Day is the fourth and final book in Mary Stewart's "Arthurian Saga".
There is no "evil" nature to this man; what might be construed as ambition seems very naturally to have arisen from his mother, Morgause, Arthur's half sister and most definitely the real villain in Mary Stewart's saga.
I found it very interesting to read the appendix and the Author's note at the end of the book where the "real" legend is briefly retold from the actual text of both Geoffrey of Monmouth's History of the King's of England and Sir Thomas Mallory's Le Morte D'Arthur.
(In my defence, it had not yet been published when I was infatuated with the others in the series.)The Wicked Day brings the tale of Arthur to a close.
Ms Stewart has made her viewpoint that of Mordred, the illegitimate son of Arthur by his half-sister Morgause.
(Ms Stewart calls the problem “absurdities.”)The old magic is best served in the interactions between Mordred and his half-brothers, the sons of Morgause and King Lot. I was as rapt here as I was with the earlier books in the series.
Earlier I commented that Mordred's head, even painted as sympathetically as Stewart does, wasn't a comfortable place to stay for long.
This, I think, is the most interesting thing the author does with this character; she takes him out of his traditional role as despicable traiter and villain, and re-humanizes him without rewriting the story or turning the book into one of those "the-bad-guy-was-just-misunderstood" stories that seem to have been born along with post-modernism.
From page one we are invited to witness how fate conspired against Mordred, from the moment of his conception, to make him his own father's bane and downfall, regardless of what he himself thinks of the idea.
I was really looking forward to this book because I enjoyed the Merlin trilogy and Mordred is a character I generally like better than Merlin.
Stewart is really not good with female characters - Morgause is a caricature so ridiculous that her passages (which are numerous as she's a fairly major character) repeatedly threw me out of the narrative.
She's like a villain from a B-movie: shallow, incompetent, stupid, why is this person Merlin's worst enemy again?
Morgan is the same except less prominent; Mordred isn't villainous but equally devoid of personality.
Yet despite this unusual switch of main character, The Wicked Day closes the Arthurian legend with grace and elegance and leaves the growing legend of Merlin delightfully unfinished, fated to haunt the mists of Bryn Myrddin as either man, myth, or both.
As for the tale of Mordred, Mary Stewart has taken the most notorious of villains and instead woven a tale of a very human young man struggling to find his place in a world that both raises him to greatness and dooms him from the start.
The impassioned words of Nimue to Arthur best capture the essence of The Wicked Day: "We have lived under the edge of doom, and feel ourselves now facing the long-threatened fate.
I loved the first two books in this saga.
In the third book, I felt like I lost a loved one at the end of the novel, and while it was sad, I made my goodbyes and was ready to move on from this character and this story.
The end of the 3rd book had a very clear ending, at least for Merlin, and for me, that was the only character I really cared about.
However, I did not like this final installment of this saga.
I just felt that it was disconnected from the first three books.
I'd read her Merlin books the Crystal Cave, etc., 30 years or more ago. Didn't know there was a fourth in the series and ran across this at a used book store. Retells the latter part of the Arthurian tale (in a sort of mash-up of Monmouth & Mallory) from Mordred's point of view, and portrays him as a better man than is traditional. Of course that bar is set pretty low... An absorbing read.
