https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6371205-fear-cay
Fear Cay marks the second appearance of Doc's cousin Pat. Unlike many stories from this era, Doc does not automatically tell Pat she can't go on the adventure because she is female.
When a submachine gun makes itself available during the story, she scoops it up and blazes away, though always over the heads of the villains since she respects Doc's desire not to take lives needlessly.
This is a great story, starting in NYC and then travelling to the mysterious island Fear Cay, with underground tunnels and a sinister menace that turns men into skeletons in seconds.
a wonderful sloppy mess. not good literature by any stretch but i can't get enough Doc Savage into my brainball.
To be honest I read awhile ago but remember little of it. Not a mystery more an adventure tale.
Once again, Doc Savage and his five comrades are off on an adventure.
This time, Doc's cousin Pat joins in the adventure.
Italian villains, lost islands, a medicinal herb that cures, flesh-eating ants, a hidden traitor, and a damsel in distress.
Oh, and Doc's men getting caught.
I am unsure of the reason for the title, other than the fear of the fire ants on the cay, which is in the Caribbean.
Pat Savage is like the guest super hero that shows up for the episode and then disappears.
The ending is quickly wrapped up and the reader is left to wonder how the group gets home.
I'm not sure if my rating would have been higher if I had rated this when I first read it or not.
As it happened, I realized half way through this time that I had read it before and, while I couldn't remember a lot of it, I did know the "punch line" before finishing.
I love the crew but honestly have a hard time keeping the names straight.
These books are the best of pulp fiction and more exciting and gadget-filled than any Bond movie.
I love how many fantastical devices exist in the books that weren't "discovered" or invented for many years to come.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
Original publication order: #19 (September 1934)Bantam reprint order: #11Fear Cay is a highly enjoyable Doc Savage adventure, packed to the gills with improbable action.
In a frantic chase from New York to the Caribbean, Doc and his crew meet a movie star, a sailor who just might be immortal, an eerie menace that transforms men into skeletons, and a worthy pack of villains who actually manage to outmaneuver Doc for most of the book.
That's one heck of a combination, and at several points Doc actually seems to be worried, nervous, or even creeped out, losing his usual air of invincibility.The book also marks the welcome return of Patricia Savage, Doc's scrappy cousin.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird meances, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
When I give a rating it takes into account the genre and other considerations. A three star rating for a pulp action book from the thirties is a whole other animal from the review I give work of literary fiction, or something more conventional. That being said, this is enormous pulpy fun. if you don't like comic book action or improbable characters, turn away. This is the stuff of Saturday morning matinee.
I have to say, this was a much better book than I anticipated. I expected, from Doc Savage's reputation, a poorly-written potboiler that would be good for a laugh, but in fact this was a really great adventure, with a fun, fast pace, entertaining characters, and an intriguing mystery at its core. To be sure, it begins quickly and ends quickly, but that's just what you want out of a 5-cent pulp!
A mysterious group called Fountain of Youth, Inc. tries to take out Doc before he can get embroiled in a mystery involving the title island, a pretty actress and Dan Thunden, who claims to be 130 years old. Bland villains except for Thunden and a fairly obvious secret behind it drag this one down, though having Doc's excitement-happy cousin Pat return is a pleasure.
Doc's cousin, Patricia, makes an unexpected appearance and looking for action, finds herself neck deep in a mystery as a gang called Fountain of Youth Inc. mistakes her for a movie actress and kidnaps her. The mystery, which seemed pretty obvious, stumps Doc and his gang until the end. Not the best in the series and makes me wonder if it was written in a hurry by a house writer.
One of my favorite of the Doc Savage books.A hidden treasure, a tropical island, a good bunch of bad guys and a possibly immortal pirate.Lots of action and adventure and elements from this book have been used in Philip Jose Farmer's 'Doc' books as well as a couple of the comics.
Average Doc Savage. OK, but not my favorite. Doc was too ineffectual at times.
Enjoyed the story and also enjoyed listening to the old time radio dramatization of the story.
This is a nother favorite that I often re read.
that was definitely fun! Short but totally worth it! Going to read more, but starting from one. :)
reread this SOMETIME in 2011
probably read some time in fall 1966
I enjoy a mystery that I don't figure out early and Robeson kept me going until the end of this one. It is not deep reading but very entertaining. Doc is the man.
5 stars for nostalgia sake
