https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12842134-just-one-year
JUST ONE YEAR  (No spoilers, I promise)~Brought to you by a series of unrelated gifs from tumblr~Starting where Just One Day left off, Allyson's like:and Willem's like "Who are you again? OH YEAH. Sup Lulu."*Enter the random chic who gave Willem flowers after As You Like It*"Um, Willem. Whodafuqisdisbitch?"And Willem's like, "uh Lulu...Allyson...whoever you are.... you should probably go"And Allyson's like "Sure, I already "found" myself. I don't need y'all. Laaattteeeerrr"*Allyson goes to Cr
JUST ONE YEAR
Whodafuqisdisbitch?"And Willem's like, "uh Lulu...Allyson...whoever you are....
Laaattteeeerrr"*Allyson goes to Croatia as planned**Allyson meets new hot guy, decides to stay in Europe and transfer to university there or take a gap year**By chance Allyson meets Willem*Didn't see that one coming!Willem is like:And Allyson is like:*Allyson and boyfriend go their separate ways because neither of them is really in love*Then Willem is like "wait you're single now?"And Allyson is like:And then Willem is like:"Because I'm not asking you for just one night, or just one day, I'm asking you for forever."Suddenly, however, Dee realizes he's not gay and decides to pay Allyson and Willem a surprise visit to tell Allyson a deep, dark secret that he's been harboring since the day they met.
I melted into Just One Year. In January, I was impressed by Forman’s Just One Day, but not nearly as much as I was impressed by her If I Stay/Where She Went duology. Just One Year, however, ties together these two novels so seamlessly that I find myself unable to choose which duology I love more. And Forman? Forman hits all the rights notes with this novel; travel, Shakespeare, unflinchingly honest characterizations, familial relationships – and my favorite – love that’s meant-to-be. Just One Y
Forman hits all the rights notes with this novel; travel, Shakespeare, unflinchingly honest characterizations, familial relationships – and my favorite – love that’s meant-to-be.
Although he knows, in his gut, that he is changed, it takes awhile for him to truly accept this; for him to accept that he wants more from his life but meaningless travel, meaningless relationships, and random “accidents.” While, admittedly, this can become frustrating, I love that it’s so typically Willem.
And, despite the fact that Lulu lives in Willem’s thoughts for the majority of this novel, Forman convinces us that what they share is more than just a passing fancy; it’s true love.
2 starsHow do I even start this review? I was ecstatic when Judith told me she would send me her ARC of Just One Year, because it was honestly one of my most anticipated books of this year, after I read  Just One Day . I honestly thought there'd be no way in hell that I wouldn't like this book. When Judith didn't give it 5 stars, I thought she must be crazy.I take back my unspoken thought, Judith. You're not crazy.WHAT was this book? WHY did it go like this? HOW did Gayle Forman think this was a
. I honestly thought there'd be no way in hell that I wouldn't like this book.
HOW did Gayle Forman think this was a good idea, that this was the book we wanted?First things first then, and it really pains me to say this, but I didn't like Willem's voice.
This starts off the day that Willem and Allyson are separated and then covers the year until they meet again.
While in Just One Day, Allyson's year apart clearly showed a story of personal growth, that wasn't really the case for Willem.
I've honestly tried, tried so hard to think of something to name that I liked in this book.
“It’s not either or, not luck or love. Not fate or will. Maybe for double happiness, you need both.” Blurb: When he opens his eyes, Willem doesn’t know where in the world he is—Prague or Dubrovnik or back in Amsterdam. All he knows is that he is once again alone, and that he needs to find a girl named Lulu. They shared one magical day in Paris, and something about that day—that girl—makes Willem wonder if they aren’t fated to be together. He travels all over the world, from Mexico to India, ho
I wouldn’t have minded a larger book if that meant we had that the first half that’d be all about Willem and how he re-discovered himself and how he came back to his family and friends and had a new purpose and the other half that’d be about he and Allyson getting finally back together and they’re going to make it work and I really wanted to read more about how they told each other what happened during that year but we didn’t get the whole thing and I felt robbed somehow.Well, what I did like about the book was pretty much 80% of it.
This book is everything I wanted it to be and more.before reading:"Published 2013 by Dutton Juvenile"PLEASE TELL ME THAT MEANS FEBRUARY 2013, NOT OCTOBER 2013. OR ANY MONTH AFTER FEBRUARY. I DON'T KNOW IF MY HEART CAN TAKE THE WAIT.ETA: OCTOBER. DAMMIT. WHY AM I SO GOOD AT PREDICTING!?
I NEEDED MORE.Really though! How could you end it there?? D: I mean yes, that ending was beautiful, but goddammit, I needed more details! It can't possibly just end there, there's gotta be more to it!*sigh* Nonetheless, I enjoyed it. At least now I understand Willem's side of the story and finally know what goes on in that head of his. However I find myself still not as satiated as I'd hoped I would be. ._.
And I’m all, guess what else 2014-ish-me loved?
It was, in fact, garbage.You’d think I’d expect this by now, but I am STUPID and I NEVER DO.Ugh.So this book takes place over the same span of time that the first one covers, except this book, instead of being empowering and interesting and filled with amazing character development, is boring and repetitive and lovey-dovey and actually contains the biggest character downgrade I have ever experienced in my young and bitter life.Willem is mildly hot in the first book.
FEELINGS
i was a little disappointed in this book..
a lot disappointed because I thought it was something it wasnt.
Here's my full review: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JNQ_PM...
.-------------------------I really think even setting aside my misconceptions, that this book would have been heaps more enjoyable if we were to watch Willem develop through a relationship with Allyson.
His problems were different from hers.
He needed to learn how to stay.
I feel that that could have been shown wonderfully through watching his relationship bloom with Allyson and seeing their dynamic together rather than watching him wander the world- at times aimlessly- while they were apart.
I expected to find out a bit about what had happened to Willem to cause him to disappear, but I also wanted to know what happened to Willem and Allyson once they found each other again!
Unfortunately though, 99% of this book was a really boring recap on what had happened to Willem over the course of the year that he and Allyson were separated, and it was just mind-numbingly boring!
I’m not sure how I got through it actually!The bit that I was then waiting for – Allyson and Willem reunited, was over in less than a page!
I mean seriously?!
Seriously?!
Where I've often commended Australian authors for the authenticity and realism they are able to create, Forman’s powerful yet subtle approach to bringing her characters to life brands her as a writer worthy of applause.What I loved most about this book was that I remember wanting to know so much more about Willem than what we got in Just one Day. He came across as such a mystery that I couldn't wait to uncover.
Having enjoyed Allyson and Willem’s stories in their separate stages, I wonder will they one day get a novel that brings them together from beginning to end?
READ EXCERPT HERE:http://www.usatoday.com/story/happyev...Full review will be written as soon as I will be done with my exams.oh my god!!Cover has finally been revealed.And its so awesome.No wait not awesome.Itts hot.Super HOT!!This is me when I saw the cover first.and thisokay last one :Not only cover but excerpt also has been released.Thanks Gayle.I love you Gayle.You are so great. Okay so I finally read this book, review to come soon.
Quando os Opostos se Juntam...Allyson é Ponderada.Willem é Espontâneo.Allyson é Regras.Willem é Caos.Allyson é Raízes.Willem é Asas.Allyson é Terra.Willem é Ar.Allyson e Willem são opostos.
O que é excessivo num, rareia no outro e por isso o Destino os juntou!Ally já aprendeu a linguagem de Will, pois de quando em quando, lá vai batendo asas e Voando.Agora é a vez de Will, que para se aproximar de Ally, terá que concentrar-se em Aterrar.Ela despachou o assunto num dia.Ele em menos dum ano não vai lá chegar.A continuar assim, frases do tipo "Atão?!
É pra hoje ou prámanhã?" e "Aguenta aí ó minha!
Tás com tanta pressa pra quê?" serão frequentes vezes proferidas!
4.5*I really liked this one! It was really interesting to travel the world with Willem and see how many times he was so close to Allyson but never met her. Overall a solid companion!
Rating: 3 starsWhen I just finished Just One Year, I gave it 4.5 stars.
But the more I thought of it, the more frustrated I became.
I think that at first I didn’t realize how many issues I actually had with this book.
But the moment I started trying to write my review it hit me: I was disappointed.
And conflicted.
And very, very confused.
Only… it didn’t live up to my expectations.
How could a sequel possibly live up to that?
But still, that’s what I was expecting.Read the full review at Paper Riot.
I just don't care about these people.
(view spoiler)[Of course being a love story and all, there had to be a happy ending, but Lulu deserves so much better than this guy man!
I wish that the first one had been left as a standalone as Lulu is the one who's true to her heart and only the one who deserves a story, not Willem.Note: (view spoiler)[What is it with authors to have a happy ending to every love story?
The book would have been so much better if Lulu and Willem didn't end up together.
(hide spoiler)]You broke my heart Gayle, and I ain't keeping it in your hands ever again.Edit before reading: October 10th huh?All right.
WHY DON'T I HAVE THIS BOOK ALREADY AND WHY IS JOHN MAYER ON THE COVEREDIT - devoured it last night in one gulp. book drunk. woah.
This is actually what I had originally hoped for her in Just One Day; for Allyson to recognize the incredibly transformed person she had become (and she did) but that even though it resulted from her meeting Willem that she didn't need him to continue to be as such.
I never saw what appealed to Allyson and I never understood quite why they transformed each others lives in the first place.While I'm glad to have the closure of Willem's side of the story, I still can't help but feel the ending would have benefited from...
The year of 'Just One Day' through Willem's eyes. Beautiful book,just like all of Gayle's books!!! ♥ This woman writes masterpieces! Another journey of finding yourself and figuring things out. I can't write a proper review due to hangover (don't judge,its Christmas!) ,but this is a good book. I think. I know :P And i need to read what happens next!! Will there be a book three? ♥Oh and happy holidays ♥ (to those who are reading this review now)
So, if you've read JOD, you know what story I expected.Anyway, I'll write more about this on the blog, but I really appreciate that this pair of books tackles a lot of unusual themes, particularly related to family and self-determination.
After the success of If I Stay/Where She Went, Forman could've followed up with a similar series and I'm betting a lot of people would've loved (including me) another duet of dramatic, romance-focused stories, but this is a very different pair of novels and I appreciate the author's gutsy direction for them.
This is nowhere near as good as Just One Day. But companions rarely are, and it had a lot to live up to. That's not to say it wasn't good, because it was terribly so. It probably would've been better for me if I had reread Just One Day before going into this one but can't do anything about that now. I'm more than happy to reread the two consecutively at a later date, anyways.
Thus begins the year-long journey of Willem, the half-Dutch/half Israeli street actor we all came to know and love in Gayle Forman's Just One Day. I wish I could say I loved this book.
Mostly, Allyson's journey involved both her and Willem.
After watching the dynamics between the two of them in the first book, any reader who was sucked in (as I was) by Allyson and Willem's budding relationship is desperately clamoring for more interaction between the two.
Yes, it took a long time for him to come to his revelations, but it felt like that was dragged out for the benefit of the length of the book, not because Willem genuinely needed that much time.
Just...let down about the way Gayle Forman decided to write this novel—but not to say I didn’t like her writing.Just One Year, does not pick up from where everyone was expected it to upon finishing Just One Day. No, Just One Year is a retelling of Just One Day in Willem's point on view.
I always envisioned Willem to be a strong, loving man in Just One Year however I was rather disappointed (there's that word again) to discover his wasn't as hard as nails.
But I loved how he didn't want to run from Lulu, he wanted to find her.Despite my tiny vexation towards Willem's character, the plot was my main issue.
Before Reading: I just want Allyson and Willem to get a happy ending.Feelings after putting the book down:I don't know how to feel. Honestly. I have waited for this book for so long because I thought it would be the answer to all my questions.A let down to be honest.Review to come.
A name that doesn´t help very much and you aren´t even sure if it is the real name of the girl you are searching for?From Willem´s point of view the reader dives into a year of looking for something the protagonist knows and feels that is important to him.
But since he has only a name “Lulu” and nothing else, he goes on a journey around the world always hoping to find the girl he is convinced is meant for him.Willem´s journey is very emotional, unravels secrets and things he never knew from his family, shows him why some things are the way they are and bit by bit he learns that whatever he had on that special day with her – she is his destiny.Gayle Forman has a clear, sometimes very poetic writing style and uses words like a music composer notes.
Amar a alguien es un acto tan inherentemente peligroso. Y sin embargo, el amor es donde nuestra salvación vive Gayle Forman es una artista de la literatura. De verdad lo creo.En esta época cuando libros New Adult están cargados de erotismo, cuando parece que para llegar a la lista de los más vendidos solo tienes que describir escenas sexuales, dónde sólo tienes que usar la fórmula chico malo/incomprendido/tatuado+chica virgen/inocente+sexo+frases cliches= repetir sin cesar, Gayle Forman aparece
De verdad lo creo.En esta época cuando libros New Adult están cargados de erotismo, cuando parece que para llegar a la lista de los más vendidos solo tienes que describir escenas sexuales, dónde sólo tienes que usar la fórmula chico malo/incomprendido/tatuado+chica virgen/inocente+sexo+frases cliches= repetir sin cesar, Gayle Forman aparece entre la multitud, mira a la fórmula con recelo, le da la espalda, se aleja y sube a su propio barco de emociones diciendo  puedo remar yo sola y llegar lejos,  sonríe y parte en su viaje, llevándonos a nosotros con ella.
Willem learns to let people in and to connect with his family, but whereas Allyson grew outward and inward, it felt like Willem's journey was external and almost random.
Just One Year features fluid prose and a great story of self-growth, and I would recommend it to fans of Just One Day. Willem's journey did not make me cry, but it made me empathize with his adventure to find himself and where he belonged."I'd seen what losing this kind of thing could do.
3.5-3.75 starswhy isn't this book and just one day collide in 1 book??that's bothering me.the whole story was good and I loved to know what was going on in his mind! and there were too many names
