https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660274.The_Catherine_Wheel
While that may be the case for Miss Silver, a few characters in this 15th episode did not enjoy the same good fortune.
Miss Silver and her friend, Frank Abbott (a young Scotland Yard detective) are requested to go to the hotel and see what they can find out.
Frank stays with a cousin nearby, and Miss Silver is able to find accommodations at the hotel.The weekend gets out of hand very quickly and due to a murder, the weekend becomes extended.
In the end, Miss Silver is the one who solves the crimes that happen during the family’s extended weekend.Again, I appreciate the relaxed pace of these novels.
Not as good as some in the series. There are too many characters introduced all at once in the beginning and even a family tree doesn't help matters much. The descriptions of the old smuggling inn, The Catherine Wheel, lack any sense of creepiness or atmosphere and the whole book comes across as somewhat superficial. Miss Silver is, of course, always in good form and manages to solve the case despite the police interference!
The Catherine Wheel (Miss Silver #15), Patricia Wentworth
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
A bit on the fence about this, it is the first book I have read in the Maud Silver series.
I enjoyed it more than not but less than I thought I would - if that makes sense.
I have to say Miss Silver's habit of coughing before she said anything really grated on my nerves and it may not have irritated me so much if the author hadn't written a note at the start of the story mentioning it.
Also the character of Maud Silver struck me as a little bit too much of a copy of Agatha Christie's Miss Marple.
I'm a huge fan of Patricia Wentworth's books, and especially her Miss Silver books, but I really feel this is the weakest of her works, and not as engaging or as fresh or enjoyable as many of her other books.
More cozies. This series (Miss Silver) mostly from the 50s. Not quite 4 stars, but better than most 3s.
Old Jacob Taverner's father had many siblings, and now Jacob is gathering some of their descendants at the old smuggling inn--the Catherine Wheel--that's been in the family since the 19th century.
There are plenty of suspects, but fortunately Miss Silver, detective extraordinaire disguised as a mousy ex-governess with an irritating cough and perpetual knitting projects, had already weasled her way in at the request of Scotland Yard, to investigate possible smuggling.
Smuggling, secret passages, old family secrets, Cornwall, and a detective completely un-tortured and un-wrapped-up in her own plot-stealing issues.
I preferred the Scotland Yard detective Frank Abbott, who brought in Miss Silver, and smiled when the local inspector fumed and fussed about her.
A wealthy eccentric host gathers an unlikely group of relatives in an old house on the English coast. When mayhem ensues, the reader knows Miss Silver will knit her way to the truth and a happy ending (at least for some).
The usual Miss Silver/Frank Abbott amusements, a fun little love affair which turns out well, and a gaggle of eccentric descendants of a family of smugglers whose inn, the Catherine Wheel, was the center for this occupation in the past.
The inn is located on the old Ledlington coast road, but this is one of Wentworth's fictions, as the only Ledlingtons that I can find are in Suffolk and Northamptonshire.
Another of her mysteries, Miss Silver Deals with Death, is set in this same area, wherever it may be.
And oddly enough, old Wentworth books may be found online on several Russian book sites.
Another suspense winner from Wentworth!I'm glad this wasn't my first encounter with a mystery by Patricia Wentworth because I would have put it aside after slogging through the opening pages in which a large cast of characters was introduced in detail.
A great read with lots of plot twists and delightful input from the insightful mind of "Miss Silver" as she solved the mystery.
Took off a star only as a little warning about the opening--mystery writers today would open with a thrilling chapter from later in the story, and then flashback to tell us about the cast of characters before proceeding with the tale.
This reminded me a little too much of Jamaica Inn -- it wasn't terrible, but it didn't have enough of the cosy imagined England that I read Wentworth for.
Losers' reunion. No likable characters.
Free download available at Faded Page.
Great British mystery a la Agatha Christie. Wentworth is an expert at atmosphere. Quick read and enjoyable.
(Actually, I was sort of hoping Jeremy would be one of the murder victims.) But, nope: this is the romantic behavior of the romantic male of books I read when I was young; and a horrifying number of people overlook it now.
(The repetition of "darling" got very old very quickly: did anybody in real life actually say it even half as often as it's said in these books?)Mystery-wise: okay, but nothing I wanted to read again.
Really: half the pleasure of murder mysteries is in the characters, and there wasn't a single character here I wanted to read about.
Jeremy was the sort who would get angry with Jane for not falling in with his plans for her, and he would give her a "punishing kiss" and say shit like, "You little fool, WHY won't you marry me?" Well Jere, maybe it was the punishing kisses?John was too perfect, and Eily was too stupid to live, but they probably had a long and happy fictional life.
An old smuggler's inn by the coast, a family reunion, and Miss Silver.
The some of descendants of Jeremiah Travenor come back to the old in - the family had split apart over the Jerimiah's will, and now there are 10 cousins who have never met each other (for the most part) gathering in the inn.
Miss Silver comes at the request of the police, who wonder whether the old inn is still being used for smuggling - and are curious to find out what the point of the reunion actually is ...
I am a great fan of Miss Silver and revel in her ability to outsmart the smartest Scotland Yard policemen. I also enjoy the very gentile settings and period details that fill Wentwort"s books.that said, this was not one of my favorites in the series. There was alot of Miss Silver ( which is good, sometimes she barely surfaces in the books) but the chronology seemed to be tediously presented, and a bit repetitive. But nothing will put me off from seeking out another in the series on a quiet Sunday afternoon.
I have loved all I have read.
This one was not an easy read, there are so many characters to keep track of but if you stick with it you will enjoy another perfectly spun mystery by the great Patricia Wentworth.
Early Bird Books Deal | Standard Miss Silver, but a bit less enjoyable because so many of the characters were unpleasant people. Also, I suspect I was meant to hope that Jane and Jeremy would ride off into the sunset together at the end, but frankly I thought he was a real prick and Jane could do much better. Eily and John was a different story.
It's been a long time, but I remember enjoying the Miss Silver mysteries quite a lot and reading them compulsively. I don't do much rereading these days, but if I were in a lake cabin or a shore camp and found one of these, I'd be very happy. Recommended.
I am really enjoying the Miss Silver books; I think this is the second one I've read, and I'm happy there are a bunch more. Yes, the coughing is kind of irritating, but the writing is so solid, I ended up not caring.
Another good book by Patricia Wentworth.
