https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31979.Astonishing_X_Men_Volume_1
(It’s reasonable to assume that his work here was a big reason that he’d later get the gig writing and directing the Avengers movies.)Kitty Pryde returns to the school as Cyclops is forming a new team with the goal to promote the mutant cause by putting a flashy group out in public that would be more like the better known superheroes than a bunch of underground militant activists.
At the same time the storyline of the mutant cure puts the social issues of bigotry and tolerance that the X-titles represent front and center, too.There’s also great dramatic tension among this team with Wolverine pissed off at Cyclops for taking up with Emma Frost so soon after Jean Grey’s latest death.
I only know X-Men from the movies and I can vaguely remember some random single issues when I was younger, so I had no idea what writers were experimenting on over the past years.
I just wanted to point out how similar things were, but I'm not mad because i liked X-Men: The Last Stand.
I know a lot of people disliked it because the characters became darker and not jolly, but it's still the X-Men for me.
The story was great, but just like the movie, this volume was also lacking.
Un primer tomo que consigue presentar unas tramas interesantes sobre todo hacia la segunda mitad, con la introducción de Pete. En líneas generales me ha entretenido pero he sentido mucha falta de información que no se completaba, como que no conseguía enterarme de todo lo que pasaba y no paraban de referencias situaciones pasadas. Supongo que es normal en el mundo Marvel, pero al ser el inicio de una saga pensaba que se iba a poder disfrutar aun con esa falta de información. El dibujo es increíble pero creo que en cuanto a trama, es introductoria.
I will admit that this is probably required reading for X-Men fans; it is quite good, but perhaps not the best place for the uninitiated to start.
If you do already like the X-Men, though, and know enough of the back story, this series is well worth your time.I read X-Men comics as a kid, and I enjoyed them, but I’m struggling to recapture that vibe.
I’ll still check out Grant Morrison’s version, but I think what I’m really after is the stuff from the late 80s / early 90s, where Beast at least looked dangerous and not like a plush toy.
Jean is dead and Scott has moved on with Ms. Lingerie Emma Frost.
Frost is also helping to lead the school which isn't going over well with everyone.The author Joss Whedon has a habit for absurdly slow starts to his work.
Whedon likes to set major plans that can't be bothered with keeping the characters and story interesting until he gets there.
It's easy to see major events are being set, but the current story telling isn't all that compelling for me.Gifted was an OK story, but I'm in no rush to continue the series at this point.
After the monotonous Marvel comics I have read recently, this is a breath of fresh air.
This has characters and it doesn't feel like it's simply about the action.
I was engaged and it was fun.
Why can't this be more of what the comics are doing.
Joss is amazing and he really does understand emotions and characters.
I thought the plot was fun without being too ridiculous.
I mean there is an alien in it and it's only one and it does overwhelm the story.
There is a lot of back story I have obviously missed before this started.
I've always just loved those names." The name and the nickname felt right.It took Joss Whedon's* Astonishing X-Men Vol. 1 Gifted to answer that question and reveal the roots of the brain shrub that had been growing since I was a kid, but the answer was there in the pages of his epic X-Collaboration with John Cassaday.
I should have known all along, but somehow the source slipped away from me only to be revealed in the best X-Man comic since the Dark Phoenix Saga.I think they're fabulous.
Fantastic premise - an x-gene cure? That'll keep 'em on their toes for a while.Loving the super-bitch Emma Frost that Whedon cooked up - he really does have a way with female characters doesn't he?The writing and art are a nice, fresh yet familiar take on our favourite misfits. I am so glad that Whedon branched out beyond his Buffyverse to grant us this twist on our tired old mutant storylines. This kicks off a spectacular run of X-Men comics.
Review is also on: Rabbit Ears Book Blog  6 stars!  Brief History: Alright, I have actually first heard of the “X-Men” series when I was little and it was through a 90s cartoon series entitled “X-Men: The Animated Series.” From that day on, I was so hooked onto the “X-Men” franchise that I practically watched every incarnation of “X-Men” throughout my life which included the animated series “X-Men: Evolution” and I even watched all three “X-Men” movies. Now the truth of the matter is that even t
Well, I stumbled upon this unique comic book from the “X-Men” series entitled “Astonishing X-Men: Gifted” and when I found out that Joss Whedon (creator of “Buffy the Vampire Slayer”) was going to write an “X-Men” comic, I was shocked and excited at the same time!
Cyclops and Emma Frost, who are now in charge of the institute, started reforming the X-Men once again to prove to the world that even though they are mutants, they are the heroes and they want to “astonish” the world with their heroic deeds.
The whole "cure for the mutants" didn't happen while Jean through her fit and went kind of crazy.
Emma Frost (that girl from the other X-Men movie that has diamond skin and can read minds) is in this and is actually playing for the good guys now, even though I sense she had a past.Oh and don't forget to throw a little Avengers in there with a Agent Fury.We start off with Kitty (girl who can walk through walls).
The story had a lot of snarky comics and funny pieces, like the image above was suppose to be..
There was no question in my mind that Joss Whedon can write, and quite well at that.
But can he write the X-Men?
I think I might actually like Scott Summers in this book, and I don't know if I can process that.
Do you know how many times I've picked up X books only to see that the artist gave every woman the exact same face?
It's just so nice to see good art in an X book.I can only think of one specific complaint, which is that Whedon didn't use Nightcrawler.
I want to see him write Nightcrawler.
Joss Whedon's Astonishing X-Men will ..em..you know astonish you. Nice story, very good job with the characters and i personaly liked the art very much. So if you are an X-Men fan and haven't read this yet ( unlikely i know ) do it now
It's mainly due to the fact that I've been mainlining Marvel shows on Netflix, along with the various Marvel movies we've been treated to lately.
I discovered that there was a motion comic series for The Astonishing X-Men, and some of the episodes are posted on Netflix.
Watching it and "Wolverine and the X-Men" (and loving it), encouraged me to check out some of the comics after many years of not reading them.
Luckily my awesome library has this series!I will admit I am an admirer of Joss Whedon's tv shows, and his characteristic wit is on display in this comic book series run that he authors.
I wasn't a comic book reader as a kid (mainly due to lack of access--there were no bookstores in my small rural town) and discovering that the X-Men had been around forever did not exactly encourage me to begin reading.
What finally inspired me to begin reading this series is that it's written by Joss Whedon (oh, Firefly, how do I love thee?).
All in all, though, it was a pretty good book and I'll definitely read the others in the series.
I guess I think of her as an avatar for the reader with this team's line-up.
We may not have Beast's intellect, Emma Frost's looks, Wolverine's toughness, or Cyclops' leadership skills, but Kitty is just Kitty (and all the better for it) - as in plucky, aware, good-hearted and dependable.
There was a lot of good action, good dialogue (the spirited bickering between Kitty and Emma; Cyclops and Nick Fury; Wolverine and pretty much everyone) and a nice amount of unexpected humor, as well.
As the team strutted in tandem to board the X-Jet and intervene in a hostage situation .
Excellent story arc. The moral battle of curing mutants or destroying the cure to prevent it being used as a weapon is ongoing in the Xmen universe. This series by Joss Whedon does really well and I had a blast throughout the whole thing.I'm...made...of...RAGE!!Good to see Peter back as well =)
I haven't picked up an X-Men comic in a long time, unless you count the WOLVERINE ORIGINS: DEADPOOL graphic novel I reviewed recently; example, I had no idea that Scott Summers (Cyclops) and Emma Frost (the White Queen), were a couple.
I also like Kitty Pryde's overt mistrust of the White Queen owing to prior bad blood.As a fan of both Joss Whedon and John Cassaday, I've been excited to read ASTONISHING X-MEN for quite a while.
Cassaday has a knack for making his heroes look both heroic and real at the same time, and I love it.
Picking up where Grant Morrison left off, Joss Whedon begins his run on the X-Men with a new line up consisting of Cyclops, Emma Frost, Beast, Kitty Pryde, Lockheed the X-Dragon, and Wolverine (Xavier is "on sabbatical").
He's also reinstated the classic superhero outfits, ditching Morrison and Quitely's additions of black leather as "it was spooking people".Having seen the third X-Men movie long before picking up this book I noticed the storyline they used in that film being used here for the first time - a cure for the mutant gene.
Cyclops, Beast, Wolverine, Shadowcat, and Emma Frost make up a new incarnation of the X-Men. In an effort to promote a positive profile, the team resumes its helpful "superteam" activities and stops an unexplained attack by the alien Ord of the Breakworld.
(view spoiler)[The mysterious Ord and Dr. Rao are connected in their motives and are in fact working together: Ord believes an X-Man will destroy his homeworld in three years and so wants to eliminate mutants, and Rao genuinely wants to help those adversely affected by mutation by using Ord's tech.
As a person newer to the comic universe, nothing frightened and confused me more than the plethora of "X-men" comic books.
I had assumed to skip on the whole thing until a friend recommended this series written by the eternally intriguing Joss Whedon.
Removed from the twisted continuity and stories of the present X-men comics, this series approached the team in some general present time in the marvel universe and created a simpler context with which to follow a very entertaining story.
I am greatly anticipating the (spoiled) ending of Joss' run in volume four.
this is my first time reading an x-men comic and i’m amazed!!!
i thought i would be lost but it was smoothly written and it was like every issue was an episode of a tv show you’re binge watching.my favorite marvel heroine is emma frost (she’s a hero!) and i‘be been wanting to read x-men because of her but wanted a comic that looked like it was pretty full of her.
emma and scott are basically the main characters in this but the others still have their moments.reading this felt like watching a movie, and the last page is the cliffhanger before the sequel!
Solidly fun and intelligently written. A great look at our heroes reuniting after several years. Fantastic artwork, too. Astonishing!
The art was ok.. but the story great =)
3.5
The X-books were my comic of choice for many years, so I’ve been itching to get back to them ever since I rediscovered the joy of graphic novels.
I’ve been familiar with the exploits of Wolverine, Cyclops, Shadowcat, Beast, and the White Queen for some time now, and even with a new sense of sarcasm and irony infused into the proceedings, these are all very much the characters they have always been.
The various twists are also nice in this arc, as well; the sudden return of a character that I loved when I was still reading X-Men and died some time ago made me, a 30-year-old man, bounce with glee.
A must not just for X-Men fans, but for graphic novel readers in general.” ~The Founding FieldsWriter: Joss Whedon | Art: John Cassady | Publisher: Marvel Comics | Collects: Astonishing X-Men #1-7The X-Men are quickly becoming my favourite comics team.
I’ve seen a bad X-Men film – that honour goes to X3, but in the list of comics that I’ve read so far, I still haven’t encountered a bad X-Men book.
title that I’ve read focused on the X-Men have proved to be really enjoyable, and with someone like Joss Whedon writing the book, the man responsible for not only The Avengers but also the awesome cult TV show Firefly, I got the feeling I wasn’t going to be disappointed.
At one point in time, the adventures of the team proved a tad too much for me and I had decided that enough was enough and moved on.
Xavier and his team has grown by leaps and bounds from this point.
Whedon takes a big advantage out of the team by taking Xavier out of the equation.
Through many a misstep, grumble and bruise the team slowly bonds against a potentially cataclysmic invention – a cure for the mutant strain.
Ακόμη, η ύπαρξη της θεραπείας φαίνεται να φέρνει αντικρουόμενες απόψεις μέσα στην ομάδα: ο Beast, για παράδειγμα, μπαίνει στον πειρασμό να απαλλαγεί από την διαφορετικότητα του, ενώ άλλοι διαφωνούν κάθετα με κάτι τέτοιο.
Και το καθαρό, γεμάτο ζωντάνια και χρώμα σκιτσάρισμα του Cassaday (που μου θυμίζει έντονα το στυλ του Frank Quitely) συνοδεύει εξαιρετικά τις ιδέες του Joss.Εκεί που το arc με απογοητεύει είναι στους αντιπάλους: ο Ord στερείται προσωπικότητας και, μπορεί να έχει πιο ενδιαφέροντα κίνητρα από τον μέσο villain, αλλά εξερευνώνται διεκπεραιωτικά.
Κρίμα, γιατί τα ζητήματα που θίγει η ύπαρξη της θεραπείας είναι πολύ ενδιαφέροντα και, αν αντιπροσωπεύονταν από πιο ενδιαφέροντες αντιπάλους, η ιστορία θα ήταν πολύ καλύτερη.
I wish my friend carolyne still lived nearby because i feel as though we could have some very impassioned talks about Whedon's run on this series. (hint: i find it regrettable)
Whedon+Cassaday=awesomeness
