https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18422.Gifted_Hands
This is supposed be inspirational, but it seems to show how blessed and special Ben Carson is. I appreciate his message, but I come away not inspired but frustrated. What happens when folks pray and God says no or they don't get the same result Carson did? And if it's supposed to be inspiriational why only one chapeter on his big thing, Think Big?
I did a gigantic project on this book.
The whole story of his life is inspiring, and the book causes you to become very emotionaly attached to Ben Carson as a character.
If it's being rated by emotional investment, it gets 5 stars.
If its being rated for writing style, it gets 5 stars.
He's quite inspirational because of his less than noble background.
It has real moral lessons, values, and inspiration to be taken from it, and I would recomend that anybody who has ANY time at all, should read it.
It can be a truly life changing book.
(She's the reason I read the book -- I had heard a little teaser of the story at a presentation by Jim Trelease and wanted to hear more about her.) She is an incredible person and did what every mother should do -- give her kids a chance to be better and do more than she did.Ben Carson and his brother were raised in inner-city Detroit, with their odds of becoming successful almost non-existent, yet Ben eventually became the head of the pediatric neurosurgery unit at Johns Hopkins, largely due to his mother's influence.Ben writes the book himself, so everything is in the first person.
Recommended by Honey for a Teen's Heart, this promises to be an excellent story.Wonderful, wonderful!
This book is all about education and the importance of it.
But, instead of being preachy, it's a great story.
Some of the things we have tried to teach our kids are reiterated in this book.
Also, there is the wonderful aspect of faith in God and miracles throughout the pages of this book.Book on tape is read by the author!2015 NOTE: If I could pull the threads of this book out of my kids' minds, I would do it.
I'm sure there are some great moments in the book, but looking at who this man is and what he represents now, sickens me.
You're the captain of your ship, So agree with the same- If you travel downwards, You have yourself to blame."From his days as a young boy making barely-passing grades to years of teenage angst, kowtowing to peer pressure, then upward and onward to his goal-driven years of high school, college, and medical school - Ben Carson's ​life story is a story we all need to hear.
Being kind, friendly, and helpful takes less energy and relieves much of the pressure."Who doesn't need a reminder that there is greatness in each of us, if we but stop making excuses and use our God given talents and gifts for good and not evil?
Not only did a poor black man living in the ghetto of Detroit get an amazing education, he also became one of the most famous neurosurgeons in America.
What impressed me so much was his mother's determination; she was only 13 years old when she got married and, to make things worse, she became a single parent when her husband left her.Despite all this,she knew how important education and faith would be for her sons; she encouraged them to read books and pray.
I enjoyed reading about the medical cases that he worked on that made him so well-known.
If his hands are so gifted, how did he write such an awful book?
In "Gifted Hands", Dr. Ben's arrogance, holiness, and fairy tales ceaselessly damage what should be an inspiring story.
Further, God makes multiple cameos in Ben's life to provide money ($10 bills found on the ground) test answers (don't waste your time studying kids, just pray), and of course, gifted hands (blessed hand-eye coordination, Ben would have been an unbeatable ping-pong player).
Regardless of how the good doctor fares in his future political aspirations, he'll always be a winner in his eyes.
Even though she could barely read their reports, she required her basketball-obsessed, gang-banging boys to read books and report back to her about them (no TV!) and that one act made all the difference in their lives.
They all went on to lead amazing lives, and Ben's is unbelievably accomplished and noteworthy: he went on to become the youngest African American head of surgery at John's Hopkins, and much, much more (I'll let you read the book and find out for yourself!)All I can say is "wow." When I read it years ago, this book has really shaped my activities as a mother.
Very inspiring and encouraging! I really enjoyed this book.
I’m really bothered at the emphasis given by the media on sports in the schools.
Or they throw their energies toward being a Reggie Jackson on the baseball diamond or an O.J. Simpson on the football field.
Rather than putting all their time and energy into sports or music, these kids – these bright, talented young people – should be spending their time with books and self-improvement, ensuring they’ll have a career when they’re adults.
If you look at them as a hurdle, each one strengthens you for the next.”Ben Carson with his wife, mother, and children
I was pleasantly surprised that a lot if his story paralleled mine.
Not so much the educational part of tough up bringing, but his thought processes.
I underlined and highlighted so much because I was surprised to find - in print - what I had put into practice.
In my older age- I've accepted my passion for children and issues with education.
I've been doing more motivational speaking and actually included similar motivational words as Dr. Carson used without reading this book.
Now that I have read it, I have more material I can use!
Loved this book!
Loved this book!
I really like to read about highly successful people.
Ben Carson is one of them.
This takes you from his living in Detroit and being raised b a single mom who insisted he achieve success...
He’s a devotedly religious man who credits God with giving him his talent and skills as a brain surgeon.
He’s an example for the youth of the world to emulate.
He’s gotten a lot of crap in the news the last few years- but none of it should take away from the fact that he’s an accomplished neurosurgeon and a hero to his patients and the world.
From inner city (Detroit) Ben Carson, a poor black kid , raised by a very determined single mother , to whom he dedicates the book , becomes a renowned neurosurgeon changing children's lives at John Hopkins Medical Center.
An inspiring true story of determination, persistence , and faith.
This 2011 reprint, with a forward by his mother, who was one of 24 siblings and married at age 13 (Can that be right ?
Take two hours and restore your faith in humanity.
The movie starring Cuba Gooding Jr. is also very good.
4 stars
His Mom, who Dr Carson attributed much of his success to, was one of 20 plus siblings.
She married at 13, and when Ben and his brother were young boys, they found out that his dad was a bigamist.
Ben's Mom's third grade education assured her the necessity of working three jobs to support her family.
It was this attitude that started Ben and his brother on their road to success.
She fostered the attitude---You are responsible for your life success--if you work hard you will succeed---if you are not succeeding, it's YOUR responsibility to make the changes to succeed!!
Ben Carson is a gifted surgeon...and I wish he just stayed in his lane instead of taking on politics but that's a different discussion for a different time...Gifted Hands is inspiring as he gives all the credit to God for what he has accomplished. I feel the story borders on fantasy, and doesn't show him as a hard worker. It would have been more refreshing if things didn't seem to just "come" to him.
~Sonya CarsonThat job [the one Ben Carson had between high school and college at the Ford Motor Company; his high school counselor helped him get the job] taught me an important lesson about employment in the world beyond high school.
Read good books like the Bible because they open up new worlds of understanding.
Or at least, one can see that it's certainly possible that one's family can be "the most important thing" even if one doesn't get to spend much time with them (I certainly experience that in the requirements of my own work life), but nothing he'd written to that point supported that conclusion.In addition, I probably brought less of an "oh wow, he's so cool" attitude to his work on separating conjoined twins than his ideal reader was expected to, due to having read Alice Dreger's _One of Us_.
One of my sons needed brain surgery as an infant so I probably know more information about the brain than the typical stay at home mother, I have even met doctors that I know more than (sad).
In fact it was my son-in-law who lent me the book.
Here was a man raised in poverty, by a single mom, who rose to be one of the best scientific brains in the world.
I love how he credits his mom for helping him be better.
Even with all his famous surgeries he thanks God for being there and helping him out.
I really should re-read this, because I don't remember much about it at all, except for what the Cuba Gooding Jr. TV movie stirred up for me, and the fact that Dr. Carson is a Seventh Day Adventist, along with, of course, the basics of the brilliant procedure Carson is known for.What really impresses me about this book now that I look back at it, though, is that while it was written by a man with vast medical knowledge, and does contain its share of jargon, the writing is clear enough that I understood so much of the medical stuff even then.
قصة حياة الدكتور في جراحة الأعصاب ، بين كارسون ملهمة حقا ... سيظل دائما أحد الأشخاص الذين يلهمونني و أتطلع لأن أكون مثلهم .. يُذكر بأن أهم و أول عمليّة من نوعها قام بها الدكتور هي فصل توأمان سياميان ألمانيان ﻣﺘﺼﻠﻴﻦ ﻋﻨﺪ ﺍﻟﺮﺃﺱ .. ﻓﻲ ﻋﺎﻡ 2009 تمّ منحه الوسام الرئاسي للحريّة ،، وهي أعلى تكريم تمنحه الحكومة الأمريكيّة للمدنيين .
EXCELLENT BOOK. A surgeon's long journey from knife-wielding, street fighter in Detroit to master of the scalpel--a leader in pediatric neurosugery. I admired the way he gave God credit for his successes and the influence of his mother, who only went as far as 3rd grade herself.
He believed,  "God has an overall plan for people's lives and the details get worked out along the way, even though we usually have no idea what's going on." I also love his "THINK BIG" principles and his desire to share his message with people, especially youth (i.e., Talent, Time, Hope, Honesty, Insight, Nice, Knowledge, Books, In-Depth Learning, and God).
This book is full of hope and encourages all to be the best we can be, while helping others along the way.
His talent and drive is unmeasurable, and his most admireable quality is his relationship and respect for God. But there isn't much he does not htink of himself.
His arrogance in his own abilities at times put me off.
Several times in his book her dismisses everyone else's opinion and continues to do as he pleases.
He has had an amazing life.
But i ofter asked my self while reading this...
HIs faith in GOd and what God has done is amazing.
But several times I asked what happens when God does not anwser..
That he never had to accept "God's will".
I really appreciated the Christian faith of Ben Carson and how he isn't afraid to mention how much it made up his perspective and life. At times I was prepared to hear more of his struggle in being a black male in the white world of the medicine, he was very fortunate that most of it was positive and didn't stop him from achievement.
I really admired him way back then.
A simple demand that her sons limit television viewing and read books instead (when she couldn't read herself) Carson believes was instrumental in their success in school.
Approximately half way through the book (after he started working at Johns Hopkins) he explains many of the cases he took on as a pediatric neurosurgeon.
I found all that fascinating.Finally, he encourages young people to think big, an acronym which he explains in greater depth.
He genuinely has a heart for young people, and I think this book should be required reading for every teenager.
Successful people don't have fewer problems.
I first became aware of Ben Carson when he was being interviewed and said about politics:"it isn't b
It's basically the autobiography of Dr. Ben Carson, a world renowned neurosurgeon that made headlines worldwide for his part in the first successful separation of Siamese twins joined at the back of the head.
Her mother works as a maid and the family barely gets by.
The young Ben struggles at school and gets low grades, then her mother forces them to drop watching TV and playing outside.
She forces them to borrow and read books from the library.
The other half of the book is basically about the preparation and operation of the Siamese twins and some of his other patients.
"I emphasize that active learning from reading is better than passive learning such as listening to lectures or watching television.
When you read, your mind must work by taking in letters and connecting them to form words.
Words make themselves into thoughts and concepts.
Developing good reading habits is something like being a champion weightlifter.
The champion didn’t go into the gym one day and start lifting 500 pounds.
We develop our minds by reading, by thinking, by figuring out things for ourselves."I loved Dr. Carson's story!
I loved his different views on God, racism, and the effort that it takes to achieve your dreams.
Rating: 5 stars.I love Ben Carson. I love everything he stands for, I him him as a person and I love his love and belief in God. I was given this book by my mum when I was 12, to hell me get through a rough patch in life. I had started skipping classes due to bullying and problem in my home life and this helped me get out of that place. His story inspired me to actually try my best in school.
