https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32604387-the-good-widow
I’m overjoyed to tell you that this one is as over-the-top fabulous as we are all expecting it to be!“She can kill with a smileShe can wound with her eyesShe can ruin your faith with her casual liesAnd she only reveals what she wants you to seeShe hides like a childBut she’s always a woman to me”-Billy Joel Let me throw something out right off the bat; if you aren’t typically a fan of the Lake Union novel, the suspenseful and romantic tales where they may be a bit unbelievable but are totally and completely addicting, this may not be the read for you.
Mixed feelings on this one...to say the least!Jacks Morales hears a knock on her door - her life is about to change forever."Five minutes ago, I wasn't a widow"The police have come with the sad news that her husband James died in a tragic accident while in Maui.
But wait just a minute, wasn't he supposed to be In Kansas on business?
All the way to the scene of the crash, supposedly for closure....WHAT??
Granted, people grieve in different ways.
I finished it rather quickly, and yes, I‘m glad I stayed with it till the end.Most people really enjoyed this one so if you were planning on reading this one don't let me sway you.
This is the best way that I can think of to describe The Good Widow When Jack’s husband of years dies in a freak car accident in Maui, she is shocked.
I also had a hard time rooting for clueless Jacks.I didn’t love this one, but I am in the minority—The Good Widow is receiving a lot of rave reviews.
I received a copy of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
Jacqueline “Jacks” Morales gets a surprise visit by two police officers at her home in California.
They inform her that her husband, James, has died in Hawaii in a car crash.
Adding to the mystery is an unknown woman who also died in the accident.
He was formerly engaged to Dylan, the woman from the accident.
He is also searching for answers and wants to visit Hawaii to retrace their loved ones last few days.
Together they solve some of these mysteries while unraveling some unsettling truths.The Good Widow is mixture of both drama and suspense.
Words spoken eye to eye tinged with the sting of lies.That unexpected knock at the door never seems to be good news.
James' fellow passenger that day was an attractive blonde by the name of Dylan Matthews.
Nick and Dylan were close.
Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke present a well thought out storyline here, but the explanations and fill-ins with excessive insets of "remember when" seemed to bog down the storyline a bit.
Her husband of eight years, the one who should have been on a business trip to Kansas, had suffered a fatal car accident in Hawaii.
She needed to find out “WHY”, to add closure to her life.Dylan’s confused fiancé, Nick, also in shock, needs answers, so he suggests that he and Jacks search for the truth together, by going to Maui and retracing the lovers’ last days.But nothing is what it seems… Not her marriage… Not her husband…And Not even his death.I will not comment further for risk of spoilers.
Liz Fenton and Lisa Steinke for a copy of this book.
Wasn't what I expected.Many GR friends gave good reviews for this book, but definitely isn't my age group. Thirty something age group will enjoy reading this book. Main character needs to grow up and examine what she's doing and not so dependent on people around her. You have to start any true relationship by disclosing everything, good or bad.
This book didn’t grab me.
I didn’t connect with the characters and found the nickname Jacks to be distracting for me.
Too much like the guy’s name Jack.
So here comes my admission: I didn’t read the entire book.
I read the first seven chapters, and like I said, I wasn’t getting into the story.
So *gasp* I skipped ahead to chapter 34 and continued on from there.
I guess I read about 1/3 of the book.
I feel like I got the best parts of the book and skipped all the boring stuff.
Another great book to read on the beach or bring along on vacation.
Jacqueline ("Jacks" to almost everyone) has just received devastating news.
He had a car accident on a well-known dangerous road in Hawaii.
and Jacks soon learns that he wasn't alone.
Jacks and her husband had their issues, but she always trusted him.
Would he still be alive?Stunned and confused about mourning a husband who was apparently betraying her, she's at a loss.
The woman her husband was with was his fiance...
It sounds crazy, but Jacks is still intrigued.
4.5 starsThe Good Widow is a terrifically fun and engrossing read!
Fortunately, The Good Widow is an outstanding addition to the group.
Early on, Jacqueline “Jacks” Morales learns that her husband James and a mysterious woman have died in a car accident in Hawaii.
As the book progresses, Jacks seeks to unravel the mystery of why James was in Hawaii, who the mysterious woman was, and what led to his car accident.
I highly recommend The Good Widow.
Thanks to NetGalley and Lake Union for the opportunity to read this gem in exchange for an honest review.
As Jacks is trying to wrap her head around the death and affair a man shows up at her door claiming to be the ex-fiancee of the mystery woman and makes the proposal that the two of them travel to Hawaii to investigate the last days of their partners.
I felt while reading about the first 75% of so of the story it felt a bit more along the lines of a drama than a thriller read which wasn't a bad thing though as I did get completely interested in Jacks and her story and how things got to the point that her husband was lying to her and on a trip with another woman.
Wow!
I ended up liking this book way more than I was expecting to.
For some reason the premise, while it did sound interesting, could of very well fallen in the cheesy Lifetime movie category but was I wrong!
I was completely captivated by this story.
I absolutely adored Jacks our main character.
All of her emotions after losing her husband after a terrible car accident seemed so honest and real.
And then, at the end, a twist is thrown out there that I honestly never saw coming.
I won a Kindle edition of this book through a Goodreads giveaway.
Thank you, Goodreads!
A thrilling read! An emotional story of love and loss, and a gripping page-turner to boot. I did not see the ending coming. Brilliant! Liz and Lisa will keep readers on the edge of their seat with this one.
Jacks answers her front door to find two police officers telling her the shocking news that her husband is dead.
The plot thickens when they tell her he was in an accident in Maui, Hawaii.
Then there's a visit from Nick, the fiancé of the woman Jacks' husband had been traveling with.
Nick, equally distraught due to the loss of his wife to be, wants to take a trip to Maui with Jacks to retrace the couple's steps and learn the truth.
They discover unexpected details about their dead partners' secret vacation, and as the two grieving travelers spend time together things between them get complicated.
So fun to read this first suspense novel from Liz and Lisa! Put this one on your to-read shelf!
I devoured this in pretty much a day and it had a great ending!We meet Jacks who is an elementary school teacher.
James comes from a huge family so pressure is on from Jacks MIL.
Ultimately James starts to resent Jacks and ends up having an affair with another woman.
One day police officers come to her door and tell her James is dead and wasn't alone.
He is the fiancee of the woman James is having an affair with.
I love it when books go in a totally different direction!I can't wait to read Girls Night Out by Liz and Lisa coming out in July!
I was hoping for a great suspense novel--I've been in such a thriller reading mood lately, but this did not live up to my expectations.
I'm just not sure it will be another suspense book.
Through most of the novel you follow Jacks, who just found out that her husband died with another woman.
I don't know if this was suppose to be a romance, a suspense novel, or something in between?
Like I said, this was readable but I was looking to escape into a suspenseful book and that's just not what I got.
Psychological thrillerAmazing story about a widow struggling through tremendous loss and grief. As she struggles to understand her husband's death, she returns to the scene of the accident. No end to the twists in this one! As soon as I began to hope, these authors ripped the security from under me. Nervous, exhilarating experience. Recommended READ!
WOW.
Wow, wow, wow.
This is without a doubt one of my favorite books of the year.
It is Neglect-Your-Children good.
The suspense, the twists...I was trying to figure out the ending the entire time and I just did NOT see it coming.
To read it and "watch" it unfold...like I said- I have no idea what my kids were doing, I just had to finish this book.
I devoured it and ignored my kids...that right there tells you how damn good this one is.
I have been a fan of Liz and Lisa's books from the beginning and this is their best one yet.
A Must Read for 2017.
Dear Reader, We are so excited for you to read our debut suspense novel! This one is very near and dear to our hearts, as it takes place in one of our favorite places-Maui! We hope you come to love Jacks as much as we did-that you appreciate the complexities of her quest for answers. Enjoy-and don't forget to let us know what you think! Thank you so much for your support.
I really connected with the characters and their storylines - I don't want to say too much about the plot because it might give something away, but I will say this: They ring so true, like friends I would have in my own life, so reading about the intricacies of their relationships and the hurdles they have to overcome was almost like a good, long visit with a few of my friends.
I was super impressed by the sophiscated plot, and can't wait for others to read this one so we can talk about it!!!
Wow!! What a great thriller! A shocking twist at the end too!!! Had me wanting more!
Like the road to Hana…This book went nowhere. It was very repetitious, had no real plot and after a lot of twisting and turning ended up back at the beginning. I found the ride boring after a while and when the book finally finished I wished I hadn't wasted all that time. No, I do not recommend taking the trip.
3.75 stars. Drama with a little suspense towards the end. Predictable but entertaining. More so because the audio narration was great and made a very long car trip more bearable.
Things get more complicated when Dylan’s fiancé, Nick, shows up, also filled with questions.
Nick suggests that he and Jacks go to Maui and recreate James’ and Dylan’s trip.
Jacks thinks maybe the trip will bring her some closure, so she agrees.
They don’t just go to Maui, they do all the activities that Dylan and James did, which forces Jacks to engage in things she’d normally be too scared to do.
Obviously, this is an emotional journey for Jacks because she’d wanted to go to Hawaii for the honeymoon they never had and because she’s grieving her husband and perplexed by why he’d do this.
Holy shit. I did not see that coming. Just when I thought there was a happy ending around the corner.. Instead of calling this book 'The Good Widow', they should have called it 'The Bad Betrothed' or something like that, considering one is a home wrecker and the other is a psycho stalker/murderer. Has a good ring to it!
THE GOOD WIDOW is both heartrending and suspenseful, deftly navigating Jack's mourning and the loss of her less-than-perfect marriage. The writing is sharp and evocative, the Hawaiian setting is spectacular, and the ending was a wonderful, twisty surprise. A quintessential summer beach read!
The premise grabbed me because, for one thing, it seemed reminiscent of "The Marriage Lie." (Which I tore through.) Husband dies in a place (or on his way to a place) that is not the place where he's supposed to be.
The writing was meh, I spotted a number of typos and at least one timeline error that really bugged me, and the whole thing felt implausible and overdone.
but why?The biggest thing, however, is that this was marketed as "suspense." Don't grab it if you're looking for a true-blue thriller or something that's actually suspenseful.
A predictable mystery about weak women making poor choices, and then surprised their loved ones weren't who they thought they were.
In the acknowledgements, the authors say "suspense is something we've been wanting to write for a long time". Well, they still haven't written suspense.
