https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/574075.Crimson_Mountain
I found it at the library when I was looking for a book to read with a "red" word in the title.
This one came up and it is a little unassuming green library book - no picture on the cover or anything.
It is a lovely story or a young woman, Laurel Sheridan, who sets out on her own after he parents die.
After he goes off to camp, things happen up on Crimson Mountain where the government is building a munitions plant.
It just goes to show that you never know what you will find between the ordinary covers of a library book.
Snuggling with this book, a cup of tea, and a nice blanket was nice this time around, and got me in a Christian mood for Christmas--as it should be--anyways.Loved it!Rating: 3.5 / 5Well, this book's as sappy as you please, but every now and then, one needs a relaxing read, and indeed, this took me to the calm America of the 1940s, somewhere out in the country where the war hasn't touched the land or the people closely, an ocean away from all the trouble and turmoil.
To be honest, for myself, this might be an ideal book to read on a cold winter's day, wrapped up in a blanket and sipping tea by lamplight.
I discovered that this book is coming out as an ebook, and so I got requested and received an ARC from the publisher.
I have read Grace Livingston Hill before, and I do enjoy her books.
I did not recognize this one due to the new cover, it was only after I was reading it that I realized I had read this book before years ago.I enjoyed this book a great deal, and I recommend it.I like the older blurb better.
Friendships turn to love, Faith in Jesus flourish, and a sinister plot is uncovered!This book was originally printed in 1942, and is is just as good today as it was then.
While this book starts a little rough and the opening paragraphs stumble along a bit before you get into the story, I much enjoyed this story set during WWII.
There is a dash of intrigue, the usual unforgiving worldly relatives, and the man whose faith becomes a pure shining beacon for the world-weary girl to cling to.
I liked that there was a certain amount of self-discovery that both young people had to go through.
And as always the story comes out right at the end, leaving the reader with a soft sigh of contentment and a resolve to live better.
Laurel is seeking to find her own way in the world after a reversal of fortune and Phil is seeking to say goodbye before being shipped out by the Army.
Neither is seeking the other, but Laurel is quite literally placed into Phil's way and ends up being saved by him.
A shy friendship develops but they soon part ways.
I love the simple secondary characters and how they add depth and humor to the story.
I would definitely recommend reading this and discovering the journey that Laurel and Phil are taken on to discover God and a love of their own!
This is a longer book than most of her books. There are a few plots that weave together, but it is a lovely story that it's true to the history of the time... pre-WWII
Really not her best. The prose was not good. The plot was too sketchy. The hero's conversation was indistinguishable from the heroine's. The theology was more atrocious than usual.
Does she accept one as she’s being swayed to do or should she miss this fleeting opportunity?Lily knows she needs space to make this decision so she accepts a job near her childhood home of Crimson Mountian to ponder the turn of events never realizing that here her dreams make come true… if the war effort doesn’t first condemn her fate.Hott Review of Crimson Mountain:This was some book!!
This book will be on a must read for the young women I know because it’s so applicable.
This is so sad...I don't think I'm going to make it through this little old novel. It's like a sweet old black-and-white movie. You know the plot. You know the characters. It's just a pleasant way to spend a rainy evening. But this is not a movie. It's a book and it goes on and on and ON! The author needed a stronger rewrite - many things are repeated. Repeatedly. The opening rescue-from-the-cows was quite amusing. ;)
Really gets to my heart strings with its story of two basically adrift and alone characters falling in love-it makes sense that they attach so quickly given how they were both so alone in the world. It's so sweet how they treat each other ultra respectfully. This book just has so much to make me say awwww.
I read many of the books by Grace Livingston Hill about 30 years ago and loved them -- had forgotten the story line in many of them. Occurring during WWII in the small town of Carollton, Laurel had returned home to finish out the year for a teacher who became ill. She meets Phil who is home to sell his old home place on Crimson Mountain and the sparks begin to fly.
This was one of my least favorite Grace Livingstone Hill books so far. The romance was so quick I just got annoyed by it.
Has promise but needs more editing.
Hill, Grace Livingston
Not one of my favorite GL Hill books. A little too syrupy sweet and quite repetitive in parts.
