https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106139.The_Man_Who_Knew_Infinity
oh my heart this story about ramanujan so painful the genius man , Absolutely I loved this book and happy to know about him and difficult life he lived just to prove something he believes .
There was a news about his last notebooks on mock modular forms being proven just last month.This biography by Robert Kanigel is a work of outstanding literary and scholarly accomplishment.
I was never good at Mathematics.
And i never regretted it anytime until i read some of the mathematical parts in this book.
I could understand the importance of Ramanujan's work, thanks to Kanigel's explanation.
But i wished i was good enough at Mathematics to at least attempt to experience the beauty of it.
A must read for anybody who is interested in Ramanujan, Mathematics, Hardy, Biographies or any good book.
After a life a penury and struggle, with no one in India capable of even understanding if his work was brilliant or a just pure drivel, Ramanujam got the recognition he deserved when his papers reached the British mathematician Hardy.
This book is very comprehensive, being not just the story of Ramanujam, but also a social biography of colonial India and war time Europe during the early 1900s.
There is no mathematics in this book and so, can be read by anyone interested in the romantically tragic, but brilliant life of Ramanujam
It’s a very ,very well written and thoroughly researched book and I would just like to say that I haven’t read many biographies, but this is exactly how a biography should be done .What Robert Kanigel has done with Ramanujan’s biography ,is simply mind-blowing, he makes you love Ramanujan not only for his mathematical genius but for the amazing and beautiful person he was, It almost felt as if I were transported back to the period from 1887 to the early 1900’s and living each moment right from when he was born ,one could literally feel his(Ramanujan's) anguish when he was going door to door in search for a job with his notebook in his hands ,his joy when Hardy said “A Yes”or when he received an F.R.S.
One of the best-crafted biographies I've ever read, this book offered not only a deep insight into the story of Ramanujan himself, but also a social biography of colonial India and war time Europe during the early 1900s.
Not too heavy on mathematics, it had just enough for the reader to acquire a basic idea of Ramanujan's accomplishments and his contribution to many and various branches of science(note to self: audio books are not well suited for understanding equations).
This book is so well written! The author seem to have done so much of deep research. This is how, I feel, biographies should be written. You can actually feel as if you were with Srinvasa Ramanujan all through his life...The greatest lesson to be learnt from this life story of Ramanujan is that to encourage and support a person for their skills and talent instead of insisting that they follow the syllabus and curriculum prepared/decided by the State and Educationists from earlier generations.A #mustread book whether one likes mathematics or not...
H. Hardy – a relationship that turned the world of mathematics upside down before it withered and died through a combination of Indian bureaucratic short-sightedness, superstition, English spiritual asceticism and the First World War. Robert Kanigel, author of The One Best Way, tells this extraordinary tale, assessing the legacy of a man whose work contains some of the most beautiful ideas in the history of science, and whose major papers are still being plumbed for their secrets today.”When I picked up the book, I was a bit apprehensive about reading the biography of a mathematician – I wondered if I would be able to follow it.
So he wasn’t admitted for higher education but it was G.H. Hardy, Apostle of Proof, after Ramanujan’s failed attempts to contact two other noted Mathematicians of the time, who did discover this Intuition Incarnate who was evidently stuck in a rut in India, which closed all the doors on his dreams just because he lacked a degree.
Together, Hardy and Ramanujan produced astonishing results which made their names indelible in the history of Mathematics.
Hardy loved cricket but Ramanujan showed no interest.
It was Hardy and England which showed Ramanujan to the world.
Ramanujan showed the world what Indians are capable of; that India has potential.
Ramanujan's story is very interesting since it is a rags-to-intellectual riches story, where an Indian clerk who did not even complete his graduation scribbles theorems in a notebook, which even surprised the most educated mathematicians in colleges like Trinity (where people like Newton taught).
Another book that was mentioned in this book (and I want to read) was "A mathematician's apology", written by Hardy.Hardy says,"There is always more in one of Ramanujan's formulae than meets the eye, as anyone who sets to work to verify those which look the easiest will soon discover".I was really surprised to know that it took about 3 months to arrive at a proof for one of the theorems written in his notebook.
It didn't help that Ramanujan's only experience to theoretical math was very limited -- he had an outdated book of theorems that he started from, and he developed his own notation that was difficult to get used to.Eventually, a British mathematician (Hardy) responded to a letter asking for help.
Or, maybe, he would have found an outlet that let him achieve an easy-enough normal life, and wouldn't have felt the strong force to push him to continue looking for other mathematicians with whom to connect.On a large scope, Ramanujan's story introduces questions about how societies treat people that have a lot to contribute in a non-traditional way.
This book has answered all these questions well enough, only drawback I feel is, its pretty hard to follow the sequence of the events.
The neglect of Ramanujan during his early phase—perhaps partly due to the ignorance of his contemporaries, as well as his relatives’ (mother’s and wife’s) contributory (I almost feel like using the stronger word “criminal”) negligence have contributed to this double tragedy—a tragedy which is too deep for tears" .
As someone who grew up in Southern part of India, I knew about Ramanujam and some his stories since childhood. The Author has definitely done his research and he is right about almost everything that he mentions in this book. I can clearly see that someone who has never heard about this Mathematician before would enjoy this book far more than I did since I vaguely knew his stories. Nevertheless, if you are interested in Maths, you should probably read this book.
The story of the life and academic career of the pioneer Indian mathematician, Srinivasa Ramanujan, and his friendship with his mentor, Professor G.H. Hardy.A movie was made based on this book with Dev Patel, Jeremy Irons, Malcolm Sinclair
This biography is about a a self- taught, turn-of-the-century mathematician, Srinivas Ramanjan So, the story is about a man who has an obsession with numbers and maths, but is born in a culture which does not understand it.
Srinivasa Ramanujan Iyengar received little encouragement in his growing obsession for mathematics--fueled particularly by his discovery of a forty-year-old math book written by an English tutor.
Nevertheless, Ramanujan began compulsively filling his own notebooks with scribbled mathematical theorums, heedless of the fact that he was flunking out of one after another of the area's universities, all designed by the British to train native administrators rather than cultivate Indian genius.
Wonderful biography of Srinivasa Ramanujan, one of the most "romantic" figures of the history of mathematics and science - born relatively poor, no contact with universities, shut out due to an extremely rigid system, no training in mathematics, a pure autodidact who somehow managed to come up with novel and outstanding results but was seen as a bit of a crank, then was invited to the UK by Hardy to finally come in contact with the greats of mathematics, finally got recognition, published a slew of highly original mathematics, but then he caught TB and died at age 33.The book doesn't come close to his genius, but that's something that baffled even his contemporaries.
This book describes the life of Srinivasa Ramanujan.
The book is written beautifully.
The author gives all the relevant information like local customs, religion, geography, and family dynamics at appropriate places while describing the life of Mr. Ramanujan.
Ramanujan is narrated in great details and makes a very important part of this book.
Hardy was an atheist, outgoing, loved cricket, tennis, and was methodical; Ramanujan was on the other hand an orthodox Brahmin, shy, introvert and his mathematics lacked proper systematic steps and was devoid of proofs.
I am glad that the author has included some mathematics in the book.

The book gives you a fascinating insight into Srinivasan Ramanujan's life.
Interested in mathematics from early on, Ramanujan overcame all barriers, including a complete lack of formal mathematical training, to become one of the greatest mathematicians of the 20th century.
The book explores Ramanujan's mind, which worked very differently from an average 'great' mathematician.
Focused on intuitive reasoning rather than rigorous proof, Ramanujan was often disregarded, only to be discovered later By Cambridge mathematician G.H.Hardy.
Together until his very early demise, Ramanujan and Hardy performed some of the most exciting mathematics ever.
If you're a fan of scientific biographies, you NEED this in your collection.
Such an inspiring book that discovers the life of a genius Ramanujan. A great mathematician from India who solved many mysterious of number theories. It's like a journey through that age. A great amount of information is available in the book to let us discover this genius.
A head-first dive into one of India's most intuitive mathematicians, depicting the central theme of his life.
He possessed the rarest of the abilities - to imagine and invent mathematics, to be able to shine a light on paths that people never knew existed, and be able to enter into conclusions others would take years to prove.Though digressing on some counts from Ramanujan's life, the book provides a realistic picture about his life, and the monstrous amount of work that he could do & inspire for the years to come, in a very short life.
Author had researched every nook and corner to gather the much required materials to write about the man who knew infinity.Like all the regular biographies, even this book takes its steps in a chronological order, starting with the birth of Ramanujan and his upbringing in the small town of Kumbhakonam in Madras.
Striving to uphold the religion beliefs despite the hardships of day to day life is something one would witness during those late 1880's.As the book progresses further, we will witness the prodigal Ramanujan slowly opening to mathematics.
Despite the soaring growth in Ramanujan's mathematical achievements, he had faced constant hardships from the family front.
He grew up in the small slums of Madras, where class and and religious segregation defined societys laws.
From the book it is clear that presentation means everything to him; his family gravely pressures him into being the perfect son.While the setting of Ramanujan's life is certainly different than anything I've ever known.
While I'm not sure I agree with the stereotypes that Indians and Asians are the smartest kids in school, I can deffinitely see the basis of those stereotypes.
Something that I've noticed thats completely different than American culture is the caste system.
This is deffinitley not so in Indian culture.
Roles in Indian culture are static.
I believe there is a "math world" which I go into when I really get into a proof or equation or whatnot.
For me, like many others I imagine, it is a foreign land wherein I don't speak the language fluently nor know the local customs.
Ramanujan, however, seemed to be native to it and preferred being there.This book provides a decent portrait of the individual: he was a normal man who had his share of misfortunes, troubles, and difficulties but who also had joys and epiphanies - oh, and happened to be very, very good at math.
Examined as well is Hardy and his relationship with Ramanujan.
This is the best biography I have ever read.
He evoked the characters of Ramanujan and Hardy, and the feeling of India and England and their relationship at that time.
He provided a sense of World War I, and some of the importance of Ramanujan for India and the rest of the world during his lifetime as well as after his death.
The depth he achieved in this biography is an uncommon accomplishment.
In addition, it is difficult to provide a sense of the mathematics involved without the reader being a mathematician, and yet again this was provided.
This is a very well researched and wonderfully written biography of two great mathematecians S.Ramanujan and G.H.Hardy. The author goes into a lot of details about ramanujan's early life and his struggles in south india and after his "discovery" by hardy, the author goes into the aspects of his life in cambridge.The only disappointment in this book is how little of ramanujan's work in mathematics is present in it.even though i wish there was more math in it,this is still an excellent book.
A beautiful look into a fascinating but short life. More than Ramanujan's genius and potential that was tragically cut short in its prime, what affected me more was the tragic life of his wife - Married at 13 and widowed very soon with hardly a sniff at life... Wish we had a culture that treated its women better !!Writing wise, I wish the author didn't spend so many pages writing G.H. Hardy's biography. Would have helped me struggle less thru the first half of the book :)
Had it not been for him, Ramanujan would have remained a clerk in any of the governmental departments and his discoveries would have disappeared along with him.His discoveries, or probably inspirations would probably be a better word still, impress the Mathematicians even after nearly a century of his having passed away.
The book also mentions the key discoveries like the equations in infinite series, the mock theta function, the partition formula etc.One sore cliche points that stands out is that, maybe things would have been different if Ramanujan's mother had not stopped his wife, Janaki, from going to England.
Crucially, each kind presents the biographer with a challenge, whether it involves saying something noteworthy or proving that the story's even worth telling in the first place.For better or for worse, Ramanujan's life lies somewhere between the two.
Which means, in turn, that Robert Kanigel didn't have a whole lot of competition in the biography department whilst writing this book...Not that The Man Who Knew Infinity is a particularly shoddy work—not by any stretch.
That being said, while this book lacks the rigour of the scholarly biography, Kanigel's prose style—clunky and baroque—evokes the dryer side of academic writing.All in all, a very interesting read.
The book tells the story of Ramanujan, a self-taught mathematical genius who grew up poor in southern India at the turn of the 20th century, without proper instruction in math (or anything else, because he was stubborn).
You don’t have to be interested in math to enjoy this book.
I think it’s the lack of insight into Ramanujan’s experience of the world and his achievements.
There are also a few places where the author describes many ways in which Ramanujan was mistaken, but then seems to provide less information on his revolutionary breakthroughs.
When n is 2 , the expression denotes Trinity, when n is 3 , the expression denotes 7 , the Saptha Rishis and so on."This explains what he meant when he said: "An equation for me has no meaning unless it expresses a thought of god" If only he had been an occasional writer, one could have understood more about his metaphysical side.
I had always thought that a detachment from god is of utmost importance to deal with science.
This biography was so different from ones that I have read previously.
Definitely a great read.
