https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328645.Calculus
It is Hemingway wedded with Mathematics--the grand iceberg of thought that is analysis lends weight and a grace of movement to the crystal clear tip of Calculus as it glides through the waters of mathematical thought...As is visible, I quite love this book.
But seriously--if you're looking for practical application or pragmatic knowledge then this book isn't exactly for you.
If you like--or think you might like--the mathematician's ever-refining pursuit for rigour, for watertight argument, for abstract thought--then you'll love this book.
But if you are looking to learn mathematics--in this case, calculus--then get your ass over this book and start engaging the grey matter.
For me the best introduction to calculus in one variable, yet absolutely rigurous it is more focusse
Spivak will teach you about calculus but if you don't have the prerequisite logic, you won't really understand what's going on.2) Applications are important; just as important as rigour.
A lot of mathematics was developed this way, so understanding the motivation is of ultimate importance.
Supplement Spivak's book with some applied problems.3) Spivak only teaches one type of calculus/analysis.
The epsilon-delta approach to analysis is what you will find in this book.
It is how the calculus was developed and is a great tool for intuitively understanding lots of problems.
This is a beautiful exposition of the theory of calculus from the axiomatic approach with full motivation and proof of the major theorems and some interesting facts that are seldom presented at this level.
The proofs and exercises are the most elegant that I have seen in any calculus text, as is Spivak's hallmark.
All that is necessary is a solid understanding of high school pre-calculus and mathematical curiousity.
As other posters have said, if you are going to be a mathematics or physics major, there is no reason to even look at another calculus text.
Not really sure why so many people rate this book so highly. Apart from the gratuitous waste of page real estate there is also some confusing notation as well as an overall feel that is a lot more academic than practical.
Beautiful and merciless
There are even occasional jokes, both in the text and the index.For students with an interest in how analysis can be used in apparently unrelated parts of mateematics, a number of advanced sections give proofs of such topics as the transcendence of the number e, and a construction of the real numbers from set theoretic principles.Calculus was not just the first university textbook I read, but one of the best.
Love his VERY detailed treatment to the topic of Infinite Series.
This is the book that turned me from an aspiring engineer to an aspiring Mathematician.
It is well structured, clear and precises, it made me love the subject because for the first time I saw it presented for the logical wonder it is, and as an assortment of formulas to be used.
I was extremely lucky to spot a used version of this book (in nearly mint condition no less!) sitting under a "for sale" sign at our university's library.
Only after picking it up I figured why my Math professors said math is a beautiful and logical subject, I really can't stress how much this book changed my perspective.
Eso está muy bien porque las matemáticas son teorías de formas puras en las que cada concepto está saturado de teoría.
Los mundos matemáticos son densísimos, pero esto no obliga a que los libros de matemáticas sean barrocos.
Además, los mundos matemáticos están llenos de vacíos misteriosos que toman la forma de posibles teoremas, de intuiciones de propiedades axiomáticas que todavía no se han demostrado.
Este libro posee todos estos felices atributos, incluyendo la dificultad de los ejercicios que propone.
Señala propiedades muy difíciles de demostrar, lo cual es parte de la idiosincrasia de los buenos libros de matemáticas.
By far the best introduction to calculus and real analysis
Incredibly thorough and well written.
Single variable differential and integral calculus, presented with rigor and style.Many calculus texts motivate the study of the material with physics problems.
Because of this, the book is certain to be useful to mathematics students--those approaching calculus for the first time, or those who wish to gain deeper insight into the mathematical bases for differentiation and integration.
Much of this material is usually not encountered until (likely more advanced) courses in real analysis.
A book like this may be less valuable to majors in fields besides math, such as engineers, or any who need an emphasis on physical interpretations and applications.
This is a very good introduction to calculus and higher mathematics. Unlike most other calculus textbooks on the market, it does not burden the reader with mathematical topics that are inessential and at the same time it provides all the necessary tools in calculus to study other branches of mathematics. At the same time, the author proceeds at a leisurely pace and provides a lot of good calculus/analysis problems. As an aside, there is an answer book that enhances its value.
Textbook for Mathematics 150, first-year at University of Toronto.This is THE definitive textbook for Calculus.
A solid text and reference on the topic. Were I to want to re-learn calculus, I'd start here.
By far THE BEST textbook I've ever read on any subject, and this one is teaching calculus. I don't know why there are any other (single variable) calc textbooks, this is the one.
This is really a beautiful book and it's clear that a lot of love went into every page.
It is such a very very good and usefull book in Calculus course.solving its problems cause to understand the fandumenal concepts of calculus.It's a Berekley Univ book and it covers even Analysis(1).
The best mathematics book I have read. You can tell the love that the author has for mathematics, and what a great teacher he must be.
A solid text and reference on the topic. Were I to want to re-learn calculus, I'd start here.
One of the most beautiful books on calculus I have ever read.
One of the very best "Introduction to Real Analysis" books. As a student, it has been very helpful in terms of introducing me to the wonderful world of proof-based mathematics.
A peerless, beautifully written exploration of sequences, series and the calculus.
This book is beautifully written and very enjoyable to read. This book got me interested in theoretical math.
A must have, in my opinion. Spivak's writing is casual and thoughtful while the exercises are unique and forward thinking.
:)
