https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56405.Love_and_Respect
The author seemed to imply that if a woman does not show her husband his "due" respect, then she is to be punished by having love withheld.
Women deserve respect, and men deserve love.
It goes without saying, however, that the woman will love her husband, according to this book.
I'm almost sorry that I did, as there was a chapter that referenced a woman that was in an abusive relationship and how she was counseled to show her husband more respect and his behavior would change.
Again, I haven't read anything this disturbing in a long time.
The description for this book says that Dr. Emerson has done extensive biblical research on his proposed idea of men needing respect and women needing love.
That would be extensive biblical research, what Dr. Emerson did in this book, I’m afraid, is not an example of this in the least.Tying along with that thought, I can find no sources in the back of his book where Dr. Emerson credits the work of anyone else.
Beyond these two reasons it is obvious as you read the book that the entire thing appears to be a huge infomercial for his seminars and DVDs, which is terrible.
This book saved my marriage by teaching me how to talk to my hubby in a way that showed him what I was feeling in my heart in a way he understood.By the way, I don't recommend taking this book from page 1 if you are in dire straights.
Instead read the chapters that call out to you the most i.e. She Fears Being a Doormat; He's Tired of "Just Not Getting It" and She Worries About Being a Hypocrite; He Complains "I Get No Respect!" In the end I didn't read the entire book but what I did read gave me more than enough to initiate breaking down the wall with my hubby.
One of the more glaring tools of manipulation that Eggerichs uses to shame women into showing respect for their husbands, without holding husbands accountable for selfishness, is the “he would die for you” mantra which, by the way, is wholly unsupported by scripture.
No. He blamed her in order to save his own skin for his sinfulness and then when that didn't work, he blamed God. Here’s another example that shows a lack of “he would die for you” mentality in the Bible by so-called Godly men.
Those aren't separate things.Eggerichs repeatedly asserts that when a woman is angry or upset or aggressive it's because she feels unloved--as if love is all women desire and the lack of it is all that can upset them.
That's ridiculous, and it's a pretty dim view of women to think we are all so insecure that every time we're upset, it's because we're not sure we're loved.I particularly reject Eggerichs call to wives to be silently respectful so that their husbands will be interested in their thoughts and feelings.
However, I've also had plenty of problems with the fairer sex, as well; most of the people who have unfriended me on Facebook have fallen into that category, and many of them were my coevals.
So, my track record with the ladies has been kind of a mixed bag.That's why the message of this book was important to me.
Sure, I can respect people; I've even tried to be an advocate for people (or pets) that got on my nerves.
Respecting people isn't enough, though; you have to show love.
This book inspired me to make a change on that front.
But back to women feeling blamed, really if you think about it, what is more liberating-saying things are bad and are mostly his fault so I’ll just wait and hope things get better and he will love me the way I want OR saying things are bad and they are part his fault and part mine (and the my part could be anywhere from 1% to 99%, as Bill Clinton says, “No one is right all the time and a broken clock is right two times a day.” though he was referring to politics not marriage, anyway), so let me take some principles and work on self improvement in showing respect and see what happens, which could 1-be complete restoration as my respect motivates his love or 2-somewhat improvement or 3-nothing changes except me realizing that I am obeying God’s word to unconditionally respect my husband?Some good thoughts to remember:We often think all are supposed to love unconditionally but people have to earn respect, this isn’t true, both should be given unconditionally in obedience to God.Women don’t often stop to think of the ways we are behaving disrespectfully.
So many women go out of their way to respect (and love) their men to the point of being doormats and yet still feel unloved and disrespected, and are then hit on the head with Bible passages to boot.It would be beneficial if the author spent equal time showing men healthy ways to communicate what they need in order to feel respected (and loved).
I found myself becoming increasingly frustrated, feeling the entire weight of making a relationship work was placed squarely on my (the woman) shoulders, no matter how hard I tried.
I just disagree with this book on so many levels.The author takes one scripture verse out of the context of life and the rest of the Bible and makes an entire book out of it.
I like the idea that women need love and men need respect.
When I read this basic statement, a light bulb went off in my head because this is how my husband and I function as people in a relationship.
I did like the tips shared in the bullet points at the end of the chapters in the second section, but that was probably the only thing I found helpful.
I was a bit taken aback by the constant reminder that men need to be the head of the household, women need to speak less, and the underlying bias in the book that men always deserve respect.
Like many Christian books, the authors have a really insightful point, namely that women need love and men need respect.
They make this point really well in about 10 pages.
The rest of the book is a broken record containing this same point told over...
well, you get the point.
Some of the stories are humorous, and they definitely help make the point in the beginning.
But after about 25 pages there is no new information, just a repetition of the same mantra.
Just ask someone to share the DVD with you from the back of the book.
Good point, but it's overblown to sell books.
But I wanted to give this one a fair shot and I went into it with a clear mind.This book revolves around the idea that women need to show respect and men need to show love.
It may have worked at some point, but men like women with a soft side, that don’t just say “YES SIR”Once I realized this would be the context of the book, I moved on and accepted that each gender would be taught how to do those specific roles.
Any man that picks up this book will not be given ways on how to love a women.
which center on the anti-biblical/humanistic view of people as "love tanks"/"love banks" rather than the biblical understanding of who we really are (Gen 6:5; Jer 2:13; 17:9; Ecc 9:3; Mk 7:20-23; Gal 5:17; Rom 7, 8)Yes, it does uses some Scripture, and even part of the book is true, yet any truth is shouted down and perverted by the author's perversion of God's Word, God's character, human nature, and what we really need.The thesis of the book: A wife has ONE DRIVING NEED--to FEEL love.
My mother bought this book for my then-fiance and I when we announced our engagement, and both of us read it... most of it, anyway. Two years into our marriage, I will rate the advice as "excellent," and I've thus given it four stars. However, like so many "self-help"-type books, there is clear evidence of the author stretching out his material to fill enough pages to justify a solid $25 hardcover. In other words, read the first half of the book (or maybe even less) and you'll have gleaned everything really necessary.
Furthermore, these divides can be overcome if the couple can embrace the true meaning of Ephesians 5:33, “Each one of you also must love his wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband.” While this may seem like easy concepts to understand, Dr. Eggerichs explains the common ways men and women fail to grasp them.
After examining the common ways couples can fail to show true love and respect to one another, Dr. Eggerichs provides clear ways for a man and wife to immediately change their ways.I was grateful for the following on page 76, “[Wives,] When I talk about respecting your husband, I do not mean being a doormat.
They need it unconditionally.God created women to be loving and nurturing...therefore it is easy to love...that is why God comands Wives to Respect their Husbands...because this is not natural...and our Husbands crave it.
so God comanded them to Love their Wives...Our Husbands need to work at Loving us...They are not natural romantics...And by now, if you have been married any time...you know...you need to just tell him things....Be kind, loving and RESPECTFULL...But tell him.God has created the Husband to represent the God head of the Family or Christ, whilethe Wife has been created to represent Christs Bride, the ChurchAs the Head of the family, the Husband wants to provide for and protect his family just like Chirst does the Church.
I debated giving this book two or three stars due to the very poor authorship, but the content was so practical and refreshing that I could not help but give it a four.
I think men reading this will relate to this book and recognize their need for the concepts this author represents, but be mindful, it will be awkward because it is very counter cultural.
My wife read this first, and after reading it I became aware of how influential it had been in our marriage without me even knowing it due to her putting the principles into practice.
If you want your marriage to hold the equality and values of the 1950s agenda of putting women back in their place, then this is the book for you.
The main concept is Scripturally sound: husbands are called to love their wives unconditionally and sacrificially; as Christ loves the church; wives are called to unconditionally respect their husbands with words and actions.Unfortunately, the manner in which Dr. Eggerichs expounds upon this truth is deeply disappointing.
I don't know if he feels he is compensating for an overemphasis on husbands being loving or for the true lack of good teaching and practice on what it means to be a man of God (much less a husband of God) in postmodern culture.
Whatever the case, he discredits his good cause by obnoxious and demeaning words and examples.
There were several times my husband said, "That's what I've been wanting to tell you for year, but didn't know how to say it." I can honestly say this book changed our marriage.We were so impressed, we used it to do a couples class at our church.
We listened to 20 minutes of the audio book (the workbook is huge and overwhelming--this was a much more user-friendly method), then split into guys and girls and talked, shared, laughed, gave advice, empathized, and prayed.
It was the best couples class I have ever been a part of.It's been a few years.
The author gives examples and offers actions and plans for how to change "The Crazy Cycle" into "The Energizing Cycle."I don't know if love for women and respect for men is really the be-all and end-all in a relationship like Eggerichs suggests, but there was a lot of really good stuff in there.However, on the topic of his theology:Eggerichs clearly and explicitly believes in "inspired scriptures," that is, the Bible as the literal given and transcribed Word of God that cannot be questioned.
This was a reasonable strategy and he adequately justifies the decision to spend more pages on the duty of wives to their husbands (though the idea that the shortcomings of wives is the sole focus of this book - as indicated by many negative reviews - is laughable).Sadly, he falls into a besetting sin of evangelicalism.
He also used his wife as a negative illustration multiple times (including somehow turning a story about forgetting her birthday into an illustration of her lack of respect!).
Overall it served its purpose to stimulate discussion and provide genuinely helpful teaching.
I had purchased it nearly ten years ago and we read the first two chapters together, but we hit a bump and never finished it (cough, the bump's name was Alan, cough).But he was really enjoying it this time and kept wanting to talk about it, so I decided to go ahead and read it too.There's a lot of good stuff in there.
So I'm working on showing unconditional respect better and I'm recommending that if you are looking for a book to read with the one you love, you might want to pick this one up.
You and your entire family will be blessed by this–even if your spouse does not go through it with you.Dr. Eggerichs understands the power of habits or cycles, which can perpetuate themselves over long periods of time.
Beyond that, it’s a valuable tool towards understanding the different ways in which men and women think and respond…and how to improve our communication together.God will use this to free you up to be all that you can be in your short life here on earth.
He has great plans for you and the biblical information in the resource will go a long way toward increasing your effectiveness!God Bless you in your invaluable role as husband or wife!
I appreciated the book - and the message was fantastically necessary and well-stated - but it was well-stated by the end of the third or fourth chapter, and the remainder of the book was actually just restatement and repetition.Nevertheless, I recommend this book to anyone who is married, engaged, or would like to ever be married.
The authors truly do have wise advice and insight to impart on the different needs of men and women, why it is as it is, and how to operate within a marriage to meet those needs and express your own.Some might call it a Christian version of "Men are from Mars, Women are from Venus" - and while I can see it, "Love and Respect" stands alone in its own right.

This BOOK is very popular as IT seeks to provide advice to strengthen marriages by ending the "crazy cycle" of spouses' reacting to each other. However, this BOOK unwittingly exchanges one crazy cycle for another. The advice contained in the BOOK is predicated on a "complementarian" view of marriage, a controversial position that claims God has ordained husbands to lead wives. Readers who agree with this position may find this BOOK helpful in implementing a game plan... or they may find themselves on a new treadmill.Results may vary. Read this BOOK with caution.
I absolutely hated this book. I wanted to burn it when I was done but rather than do that, I just threw it away. The another is completely out of touch with a womans way of thinking and I was pretty much offended through the entire thing. I had to read this for our small group but sometimes, I couldn't bear it and just skipped.
I was really quite impressed with how Dr. Emerson Eggerichs is reveal the most simple intimate needs of both men and woman in an effort to break the cycle of craziness that many couples endure.Love and Respect was able to not only place emphasis on the things that we often do to hurt each other.
That is beautiful!Something that isn't covered in the book but as a reader who is trying to evolve her own relationship, I feel it is important to mention is not to forget that since our brains are all a certain percentage female and male, the exact recipe of love and respect that a person needs varies slightly from person to person.One of the things that I really enjoyed about Dr. Eggerichs writing style is that his advice is not one sided.
I think there is an incredible amount of wisdom we can gain about marriage from the bible, and a lot of it is Ephesians 5 (the book focuses on 5:33).
However, little, if any, of that wisdom is included in this book.
But it took more time to filter through those problems than actual time reading the book.
Overall, I think there is a possibility that a mature christian couple who have been married for at least 5-10 years can get something out of this book.
But I think newly-weds or young believers will end up with more problems than solutions.
I'm so glad I'm reading this before I'm getting married, lol!
I think knowing this will save me a couple (thousand) arguments...
I like how the emphasis is on love and respect (not necessarily submission).
It just sounds better :) And even though not every human is a cookie-cutter formula, I think it is something God put (at some level) in each female and male.
Definitely would recommend this book to any married couple.
And if you're not married, still read it, because it will prevent you from marrying someone till you're ready to commit to loving/respecting in a realistic way.
