https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/399247.Witchcraft_Oracles_and_Magic_Among_the_Azande
Um dos melhores livros de antropologia que já li
This is wonderful, classic anthropology.
A classic and truly seminal work.
As an anthropological work, you cannot say he hasn't done a good job.
It is very detailed and Pritchard shares everything he knows about the Azande practices.
At the end of the book, he speaks of his experience in the field which is worth a read.
As per Pritchard, the Azande in Sudan are a well-mannered people who have explanations that are wider than the usual western explanation of misfortune.
Pritchard tends to have short sentences in this book and I think as with any anthropological work, one can get lost with all the references to foreign ways of doing things.
I'm currently re-reading this with my students in Religion and Anthropology. After the theory I made them read they're sinking their teeth into EP's ethnographic treatment of Zande reasoning about witchcraft and defense against it. When first published, this text confronted colonial era assumptions about the intellectual capacities of colonized people.
FALSE
La lectura que Evans-Pritchard hace del sistema de brujería y adivinación Azande es de las que más me han cautivado en ese campo que llaman "antropología simbólica". La manera en que liga el sistema simbólico con el social, penitenciario y psíquico me resultó iluminador por demás. Es curioso también que relaciones como las que hace en este texto, a pesar de parecer tan evidentes, jamás las habría visualizado así. Considero que es uno de los mejores textos de Pritchard, incluso mejor que 'Los Nuer' (1940).
Questa purtoppo è una versione ridotta dell'opera originale de Evans-Pritchard, fra l'altro senza nemmeno una foto, né una cartina. È una mancanza che la casa editrice non lo habbia reso noto in forma immediata e visibile, per esempio nella descrizione della quarta di copertina.
In order to do this, he takes a Western definition of the idea and applies it to a group that does things that we might consider definitively irrational.
2) He keeps a literary distance as well as (he says) an actual distance out of a respect for the privilege of his own position and to respect the differences that his informants care about.But now that I've read it from beginning to end, I think his style leaves too much out and gives the reader far too little credit.My favorite part?
Evans-Pritchard studied the Azande and their beliefs and ideas of Witchcraft among this culture.
Like the Nuer, this is an excellently written ethnography!
(If you haven’t read the Nuer, shame on you!
During the time of his research, the Azande was already being absorbed into colonialism.This is another great ethnography about the ideas and beliefs of witchcraft in another cultural point of view.
After reading this, the same ideas once again are present among the Azande as they are in European ideas of witchcraft.
It makes you wonder where these ideas originated or if they are universal patterns that are present in every cultural idea of witchcraft and magic?
This book about Witchcraft is written by Evans-Pritchard and it is really a study book.
I recommend, before reading this book, to already have done some research on witchcraft in Africa.
Especially all the Oracles and how they work can be overwhelming (at least it was to me).Compared to 'Madumo, a man bewitched' by Adam Asforth, this is a lot more academic.
it is fully based on the research done by Evans-Pritchard, whereas Madumo research is being alternated with friend to friend talking.
In conclusion, I recommend this book if you want to learn about witchcraft and all.
Even though it was first published in 1937 and the language and thoughts are now understood as a bit dated, for his time Evans-Pritchard was about as culturally relativistic as they come. I found appendix four the most interesting as it was the first time we really get to see Evans-Pritchard's thoughts on field-work.
Spectacularly good and groundbreaking work which, among other things, proposes that the paradigm of witchcraft is equally as valid as science to its practitioners in that it can be used as a mode of living, even if it is based on an erroneous premise.
Perhaps the best part of this wonderful book (all of it is brilliant) is the essay that makes up the fourth appendix to my copy of the book. ("Some reminiscenses and reflections on fieldwork") Be sure not to skip it!
A very in-depth study of the concept of witchcraft among the Azandes. Who would not love this classic work of anthropology?
I would like to read the full version in the future, fascinating work.
