https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/143226.The_Place_of_the_Lion
I thought I had read Williams' All Hallows' Eve, but I am reading it now and it is unfamiliar, so I think it must have been this one that I read years ago.Come to think of it, I do have a vague memory of a character seeing a lion... that may be autosuggestion, though.
Now that I've reread this I can confirm that yes, it is the Charles Williams book I read like 20 years ago. I think it is less theological orthodox but more imaginative than his other book I've read in between, All Hallows Eve. Giant ferocious animals that are Platonic Forms that are Angelic Powers stalk through a small English town, bringing disaster to those who align themselves too excessively with one quality or another. Because too much of anything is a bad thing!
As an author, Charles Williams writes stiffly, his stories are strange enough to be nearly inaccessible, and his characters who find clarity start speaking in a way which makes The Fairie Queene look folksy.
Charles Williams has Plato's ideas crash into our world and it's a rather ordinary thing.
Or the dead walk into a kitchen and chat with the living because it's the thing to do, or a man shacks up with a succubus, or someone promises to bear the burden of a doppleganger which is terrorizing a friend.Now, we can encounter those things in a comic-book story, or video game, or one of the many pseudo-sci-fi/fantasy films which mixes an ancient name and time travel (or some variation thereof) into a senseless mess but is fun to look at and kinda rad.
And over him faster and thicker the great incursion passed, and the air over the garden was filled with butterflies, streaming, rising, sinking, hovering, towards their centre, and farther now than Anthony's eyes could see the single host of all that visitation rose and fell, only whenever he saw it towards the ground, it turned upwards in a solitary magnificence and whenever, having risen, it dropped again, it went encircled by innumerable tiny bodies and wings.Credulous, breathless, he gazed, until after times unreckoned had passed, there seemed to be a stay.
In the cases of Mr Foster and Miss Wilmot, the Way is evil and destructive for they embrace an evil use of the energies of the Images.Anthony and Richardson, each adopting a unique perspective, find that it leads to an epiphany.
The final chapter, “The Naming of the Beasts”, ties up the strings concerning Richardson in a most unsatisfactory manner, making us wonder why he has been in the book at all and Damaris has a vision of Anthony as Adam—the primal man which often seems silly.This is not to say that there are no fine moments in this part of the novel.
I just can't stay with this -- a lion, a butterfly, philosophy -- I think I'll first read more about the author, one of the Inklings.
I really wanted to like this book a lot more, but Charles Williams' status as the odd Inkling out is not entirely undeserved.
For the most part readable, but difficult to fully enjoy.This book can perhaps be most worthwhile if you pretend it's an archaic text that's been badly translated and adapted/revised in places.
To Williams' credit, speckled throughout are truly fascinating, "out-there" mystic concepts, and some gems of real wisdom that are a treat to meditate on.
If you're at all interested in mysticism, this may be of interest, but as a novel it seems objectively rather lackluster.
In short: it is fantastic.I expected The Place of the Lion to be decent, but mainly worth reading due to its influence on CSL.
Instead, I think Lion is better than anything Lewis wrote (of what I've read anyway).
Williams has moved up in my estimation from an Inklings fringe character to a hidden and under-appreciated gem.The book's premise is that Platonic archetypes, as filtered through medieval Christian theology, enter our world through some sort of spiritual rift in space-time.
Perhaps this sentiment is why Williams use of theology is not so annoying to me as Lewis' is.
So confusing but so good.
I can't imagine how this came out of his head and onto paper.
I think that above all is what so intrigues me about him, are his intangible imaginings that become very tangible.
For instance, occasionally I feel confused with a bunch of important brain clutter, and I can only fix it by going somewhere quiet and talking out loud to myself in order to marshal my thoughts and make sense of the fender bender of ideas and emotions.
He consistently organizes those elusive thoughts, with profound poetic accuracy.
Thoughts that you say "YES!
Once again, Williams has taken me to the edge of the physical and provided a peek of the metaphysical. His allegories are revealing of what we will all face, in one form of another. His reading is not for the easily distracted or for the faint of heart regarding future events.
Here is my summary of this book! https://theoddestinkling.wordpress.co....
There is a very, very slight sexual theme present in the book, which I think Williams either didn't know how to or just couldn't bring himself to bring forward more fully; the relationship between the hero and heroine of the book's adventure is, to me, not very adequately (not to mention rather sexistly) expressed, and as a result their triumph over the Forms (again, Williams never calls them that, but that's what I kept calling them in my head)--which is conjoined with their intellectual and emotional connecting with each other--felt kind of anticlimactic.
See one review here.
Weird, complex, and wickedly absorbing. I’m not quite sure how to process this. I’ve never read anything quite like it, but I love it!
Instead the conspiracy contrived against the world is found in the heart and mind of every man or woman walking the earth.
These Ideas, these spiritual archangels, that Williams describes were meant to be ruled by Man and Man has failed to take charge.
This conspiracy is one in which the conspirators and victims are identical.Suffice to say that in the end Man attains his proper place, if only for a moment.
But Williams looks ahead to the moment when once, for all time, Man will attain his place among the created beings, the animal above the animals, the lamb in the place of the lion.Charles Williams, you are brilliant.
He writes of spiritual things as a normal, natural part of human existence, and of spiritual beings as directly influential upon our existence.I like Charles Williams because of an annoying habit he has of bombarding the reader with confusing images and indecipherable phrases, without explaining anything along the way.
In the "Place of the Lion," spiritual beings (angels/ideas/forces) are breaking into the physical world, in a specific place on earth which represents the original Garden of Eden, causing disorder and imbalance everywhere.
The characters (a modern-day Adam and Eve) must find a way to bring back the balance of nature - the restoration of creation - where "the lion will lie down with the lamb." How will they be able to do this?
What can I say about this deeply odd book?I'd read a couple of Charles Williams' novels along time ago.
Unlike his drinking partners, Tolkien and Lewis, Williams makes explicit his Christian message in his battle between Good and Evil.
This stretches credence from time to time as his rather stuffy and academic characters are turned into super-heroes.
It's like imagining your local vicar transformed into the Incredible Hulk.
It's not really clear whether the appalling class prejudice is Williams' own or supposed to be the folly of his characters.
You won't read anything else like it, that's for sure...
I liked them a lot, bought copies and kept them.
In the last six weeks I have shed most of my hard copy books but kept the Charles Williams to reread, beginning with The Place of the Lion.His sentence structure is unnecessarily convoluted at times and his conceptualisation of relationships based on traditional interpretation of the Adam and Eve creation story seems uncritical and limiting to me in 2015.
Nonetheless, it is still a brilliant, engaging fantasy with a powerful mythology and people I want to spend more time with.
It's a long time since I engaged on so many levels with a novel.
It is one of the most esoteric reads I've experienced in a long time, but it's a great book.
You'll need your brain in gear for this one...but it's worth it.I love C.S.Lewis and discovered Williams as he was one of Lewis's favorite writers.
Williams' books take a little work to track down (though I have noticed Amazon does have a pretty good selection LOL).
On the whole they are worth tracking down however.The (I suppose) Archetypes encountered here from lion to butterfly carry a spiritual significance, and the story will move you given it's chance.
This book can be read on many levels from a type of allegory to a supernatural thriller of sorts.
I started out being a little skeptical of this book before I realized that it's one of those where the plot and philosophy are revealed slowly, as you make progress. I thought this was pretty cool, because instead of being the omnipotent reader, you were figuring things out and growing in understanding WITH the actual characters. This story is jam packed with a lot of philosophical ideas, so be prepared to be a tad confused. There was a lot I feel like I didn't fully grasp, but that didn't inhibit me from enjoying it as the great story it was.
As with all Charles Williams' books, marvelously strange, exploring the mingling of the physical and spiritual realms.
Williams is the master of symbolism. This is another rip-roaring Charles Williams novel. Huge ideas about spiritual reality and our world, particularly the human virtues, in a gripping thriller/romance/unique genre. I really enjoyed it, and took a few notes on the cosmology afterwards.
(Wikipedia) The Place of the lion ends by becoming armed with the secret names of the archetypes from a grimoire, Anthony summons them back to their point of focus while Richardson neutralizes the fire by walking into it.
(Wikipedia)This is the first Charles Williams fictional novel, I have read.
In a fast-moving science fiction story, Charles demonstrates how; “I hope you still think that ideas are more dangerous than material thing," Quentin said.
It's more dangerous for you to hate than kill, isn't it?”.I am glad I summited the peak, for I now know more about the importance of the Inklings.
Though it is at times hard to parse out what is going on, it's thoughts and reflections have firmly placed it as one of my favorite books.Another reviewer has mentioned that one of the strengths of the book are the insightful excursions into philosophy or an exposition on an idea like that of friendship.
Only in such a balance could humility be found, humility which was a lucid speed to welcome lucidity whenever and wherever it presented itself.""Though they did not last, their importance did; though any friendship might be shattered, no strife and no separation could deny the truth within it: all immortality could but more clearly reveal what in those moments had been.""Standing up, Damaris realized that interpretations nearly always are wrong; interpretations in the nature of things being peculiarly personal and limited.
I don't even know how to classify Williams.I don't suppose I'm his target audience: I struggle through his stuff in places, but I did straight up enjoy what felt like his spookier stuff, like The Greater Trumps and All Hallows Eve.I suspect this would benefit from a reread and a theology class.
What's striking on this first read is the similarity in thinking between Lewis and Williams, that a very little fault is enough to draw you into hell (or, A hell, at least).
The two people who end by being the villains (I suppose?
It's just not easy reading.If you're just getting into Williams I think I'd recommend one of the other two I named.
I know Williams is a literary mastermind, which is why I gave 3 stars instead of 2: I know that he has created a story that is able to be unpacked with careful and intentional study.
This story is not one that you just pick up for enjoyment but rather one that is best understood and properly interpreted with study tools and/or a literary group.
Basically it feels like the hallucinations mixed with reality of a handful of characters.” I was disappointed with the book; I had high hopes for the writing of one of Lewis’s friends.
3.5/5I don't read a lot of fantasy because I think dragons are a little silly (go ahead, judge me), so reading one that does not involve magic and fairies was a pleasant surprise.The book is HEAVILY platonic, in an interesting way.
Whoever, I think it relies too much on Platonism and seems to point to the idea that, in the end, we will all be swallowed up and dissolved by this "realer" reality of the realm of ideas, something that I cannot subscribe as a Christian.All in all, pleasant read.
First off I have to admit I was very irritated by the self-satisfied Christian white maleness of the main character and the narration.
I haven't read any Charles Williams since college when white Christian maleness was the default setting for most of what I was reading.
It seems I have far less patience for that sort of thing these days!Still.
Williams WAS brilliant, and the premise of the novel is intriguing, and it's certainly a good mental stretch to read it.
If you don't get twitchy reading in a setting where sexism, racism and religious superiority are sort of ingrained in the culture, this is a fascinating read.
The Place of the LionBy: Charles WilliamsYear Published: 1933Genre: Adult Fantasy NovelIf you are a fan of C.S. Lewis, you are familiar with the Inklings, the small group of writers that met regularly to read and critique each other’s work in Oxford in the 1930s and 1940s.
In the preface to Essays Presented to Charles Williams, C.S. Lewis (1947) notes that one of Williams’ other novels All Hallow’s Eve and Lewis’ Perelandra were read aloud in the Inklings group and “they owe a good deal to the hard-hitting criticism of the circle” (p.
Williams uses a sense of place to explore the spiritual world, rather than an object as in his earlier novels. The effect is more overwhelming and frightening but gives him much more scope to explore ideas (or Ideas) and powers beyond our understanding, and usually outside our awareness. Much is left unknown, which enhances the power of the novel I think. I enjoyed it and was fascinated by it, but found Many Dimensions more fun, if less thought provoking.
