https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202292.The_First_Wives_Club

If, like me, you spend an inordinate amount of time reading the cheatin' kinda romance or the ones with the Alphahole jerky H that seems so prevalent in various category lines and find that for every 10 you read 8 are probably just not satisfying the need for a good apology and a sincere "I love you and only you" from the misbehavin' sorry b*stds.
That is why periodically I just have to read this book.Yes it is vindictive, it is cruel and probably very frightening to most males, (my own husband read three pages and ran away screaming, I think it was the part about the paint job getting ruined on the jag), but nobody actually gets physically castrated they just get a good dose of what is coming to them.
Also suicide and racism and misogyny, all of which go hand in hand with that first one...I tried really hard to love this one, because I know that my dear friend Wendy loves it.
Buuuuuuut reading this in 2017 is a lot like reading a 470 page book about Donald Trump.
Every single one of the male characters in this book is basically Donald Trump.
All the male characters basically aspire to be Donald Trump.
There's a crapton of Trump-esque racism in the story.
The younger women are basically only there for the Donald Trump characters to stick their dicks in.
One of the grandmothers of the chick lit genre. Funny, if a bit mean-spirited at times, though it's hard *not* to empathize with the long-suffering first wives who are tossed aside like yesterday's leftovers when their husbands decide it's time to bag trophy wives. The story of how they work together to wreak vengeance on those cads, and improve their own futures and that of their community at the same time, is an entertaining read.
I thought the transitions from character to character were a bit rough, the plot was ALL over the place, the characters were either overly developed to the point that we were still learning things about them up until the very last chapter of the series or they were underdeveloped to the point that made me wonder why the author gave them a point of view in the story at all.
Every chapter was a new meaningless character that the author described for what seemed like endless paragraphs or a description of a setting that was unimportant to the story.
I decided to read this book because it has a movie connection and I wanted to watch the movie again as I didn't really remember it...
This has to be one of the most annoying books I have ever read!
The seek revenge on their snobby husbands, who seem to have left them for no other reason than for younger women (or in Annie Paradise's case, because she couldn't have an orgasm - which I find as an outrageous reason to leave someone).The concept of this book was a great one, but the way it was written is straight up disgusting.
Not only are there belly laughs-a-plenty, but Goldsmith's novel has its touching moments, its scathing moments, its moments of satisfying and poetic justice!The book is a completely different experience than the film.
There are so many supporting characters in the novel that I occasionally wasn't sure who I was reading about, especially as many chapter may have passed since the last time they were mentioned.
Full disclosure, however, I read this during slow times at work so there were a lot of starts and stops, your mileage may vary considerably.I can see myself revisiting the Wives and their quest for justice again one day.
Hace poco más de un año, en una feria del libro de Albacete, me tropecé con el texto en el que se basa una de mis películas favoritas de los 90': El club de las primeras esposas, aunque quizás sea un poco injusta esta apreciación, ya que mis películas favoritas de esta década se pueden contar por decenas.
El argumento, a grandes rasgos, narra la historia de tres mujeres de mediana edad, pertenecientes a la Jet-set neoyorquina que, tras años entregadas a la vida doméstica y a apoyar a sus maridos para que asciendan en sus flamantes carreras, son abandonadas y reemplazadas por mujeres mucho más jóvenes.
I usually read books quicker than this, however, I started an online course in early September, and wasn't able to read as often as I usually do.
Elise with drinking too much) and becoming independence of their former spouses.
The way they get back at their spouses is inspiring to any woman who has been mistreated/abused by her spouse of former spouse - mistreated either physically, emotionally or financially.I haven't seen the movie, so it was really good to read the book without the influence of the movie.In general, the book is a lot of fun to read.
I've always been mad at what that stupid movie did to this awesome book. The movie made these characters into idiots, when in the book they were smart, strong women. But hey, isn't that what life in our society likes to do to strong, intelligent women - try to take their power from them by turning them into charicatures - if you're ambitious, you're a witch, if you're angry you're just being emotional.... UGH It's really a great read.
I liked this book because the premise was that men underestimated their wives and their wives showed them that one should never underestimate anyone. I liked the attitude that the first wives take. It has a bit of man-hating in it, which I don't agree with.
This is not the best written book, but I enjoyed the characters and the storyline.
Most readers would be familiar with the film of the same name starring Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn, and Bette Midler, but the novel delivers a more complex portrait of these characters and their realities. Discarded for younger women after years of supporting their husbands’ careers and reeling from a mutual friend’s suicide, three women collaborate to plan their revenge. This is the empowering story that we don’t often hear about the aftermath of mid-life crisis divorces and first wives deciding that enough is enough. —Balli Kaur Jaswal (https://www.bookish.com/articles/book...)
entertaining story, just not sure why I had to read every two pages about Brenda being fat. I got it.
The middle son was always neglected because he saw how special his sister is.
Annie's character is so much deeper than the Diana Keaton portrayal of her in the movie.Right around the 50% mark in the book, Olivia Goldsmith changed her writing style.
I can't say that Goldsmith intended on creating a new genre that's marketed to women but I think she and the book are probably as close as we can get to that moment where authors and publishers realized that female readers were their most powerful demographic.All in all, the book was DEFINITELY better than the movie and quite an enjoyable read.
Nel mondo di Olivia Goldsmith le cose sono un po’ diverse.Tutto inizia con il suicidio di Cinzia, che prima di togliersi la vita spedisce una lettera alla sua cara amica Annie, che però non ha visto per lungo tempo.
Pian piano però l’intento distruttivo viene accompagnato dalla volontà di ricrearsi una vita di tutte queste donne e dei vari personaggi che le circondano.
The novel follows three women: Elise Eliot Atchison, Annie MacDuggan Paradise and Brenda Morrelli Cushman are seemingly very different people.
After Annie shares the letter with the others, they form "the First Wives Club" and vow revenge on Cynthia's ex-husbands and their own former spouses.
With the husbands, it's more justice than revenge, but the scheme targets the new spouses too, and in all but one case, the second wives seem to me more the next victim of the ex than evil women who should be taken down.
Nothing like the movie, which was more of a woman's empowerment theme.
The book is empowering but much more.
It is a page turner too.
I am surprised that they made some of the changes that they had in the movie from the book.
Brenda realizes she is a lesbian, Chris is Annie's middle son, and Elise is a former movie star (not still acting, like in the movie) In the movie they don't get back at Cynthia's ex Gil. And the implication is she's a drunk.
But her death is much more sinister in the book.
I recommend reading the book.
Goldsmith’s characters are lacking in depth and maturity.
The plot is over simplistic and a bit emotionally manipulative.
You HAVE to root for the first wives because their exes are presented as truly horrible people.
Don’t believe me?
A greedy sadist, a narcissist attracted to YOUNG girls, a selfish man who illegally breaks a financial trust for his disabled daughter, and a ‘self-made’ millionaire who bamboozled his first wife out of a decent divorce settlement.
The first wives are portrayed as innocent, kind women, who really did what they could to make their marriages work.
It is THAT simplistic.
3 STARS"Don't get mad.
When their best friend commits suicide over her divorce, Elise, Brenda and Annie decide enough is enough.
But now that the men are successful, they've traded in their wives for newer, blonder models.
Over lunch one day they form the First Wives Club.
This is the SAS in Chanel, Painstakingly, inexorably, they plan the downfall of the men who've wrecked their lives - and know that revenge has never tasted sweeter..." (From Amazon) I was 16 when I first saw the movie and have to say I already was on the side of the First Wives!
Intriguing.
Engrossing.
Definitely not like the movie - which appears to have been only loosely based on this book.
The blurb on the front says it's 'hilarious' - it's not.
It had some ironic bits and some humor - kind of like life.
But it was harsh and hard in places, too - again, like life.
The cover also says something about 'couldn't put it down'.
That's something I can agree with.
As long as this book is, I inhaled it.
Don't start it if you have other things to do in your life.
As much as I love the movie, this book is really transcendent. Annie, Brenda, and Elise jump off the page as feminist icons. There is something so much more female about the characters in the book verses the characters in the movie. You really feel they are out to help themselves rather than just act as a response to the men (although that's obviously a part of it.) All three women end up finding something in themselves that they didn't have before and it just made my heart and soul soar. Definitely a must read.
I read this book before the movie came out.
I think if I had seen the movie first, I would have never read the book.
The movie was horrible!
This book is way more interesting.
this is not going to be a literary classic, but in the book you get to see them much more vindictive, angry, sad, and hurt; and the revenge that they achieve is much more fun (and cruel) than the movie allowed you to see.
if you're looking for something fun, a little steamy, and even a little mean, then check it out.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The characters were engaging and showed considerable growth throughout. Caution--if you have seen the movie, the book is very different. They emphasized the comedic aspects of the book and softened the characters considerably. While the book does have some comedy in it, it was much darker than anything in the movie. Loved the revenge aspect--it was totally appropriate.
this is the perfect book to read by the pool when you are in florida with your lady friends.also i like revenge stories.
This book was an interesting read with a new take on revenge. I laughed and felt myself get angry at times. The book is very different from the movie, with only the basic idea and main character traits remaining the same. I enjoyed the book, but it had slow periods of unnecessary details. This is not a book I can see myself reading again. Once was enough.
i confess that what made me take up this book was the feeling i loved the movie when i was like 12, i think, though i didn't remember the plot at all anymore.i loved how these women grew and bloomed over adversity and despair to become strong and independent and realized, and how you can always begin again, and reach a better place.
I loved this book. It was dark, funny and nothing like the fluffy movie that was inspired by it. Three very different women brought together by by being left by their husbands. These women are strong despite appearances. my favorite this about the story was each women was allowed to be herself and in the end all of her apparent weakness were actually strengths.
Stellar! I'd seen the movie & laughed my ass off, because it was indeed funny as hell, & with the cast in it, how could it NOT be? However, the book was SO much better! In turns I was sad, as well as laughed out loud! It's a light read, a great "summer read", & you cannot help but admire these ladies, especially if you are a woman of a certain age, like I am!
I love this book! It is so much more than just getting even, these women find themselves and happiness after divorce. They do get justice though, and oh is it sweet. I was completely engrossed in this book and I wish there was more. I am definitely going to read other books by this author.This book is highly recommended to anyone and everyone! :)
