https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56842.Fatherland
I’ve never read a book that more starkly highlighted for me how thankful the good people of the world should be that the allies won World War II. While my final rating was a somewhat subdued 3 stars, there are parts of this story that I found extremely compelling. BACKSTORY/ALTERNATIVE HISTORY:Welcome to a very dark future... It's 1964, and all of Germany is preparing to celebrate Adolf Shitler’s 75th birthday. As part of this national event, the President of the United States, Joseph P. Kenne
The rest of the book takes the form of a standard, but interesting,  crime/mystery novel set against the backdrop of this “alternative” Germany.
I would have loved to have spent time learning about the details of day to day life inside the author’s Germany, and reading descriptions of the geo-political dynamic existing as a result of the alternative history.
So...While, on the whole, I liked the book, I think it tried to do too much and ended up being less effective than it should have been as either a mystery or an alternative history.
In the 1930s many art critics judged this Nazi art as, at best, mediocre and by the 1960s, a clearer vision has reached the man and SS officer in the street – all that realist art that Hitler loves is so much schmaltzy crap.Toward the end of the novel, March and Charlotte Maguire enter an empty elementary school where March makes the observation: “Childish paintings decorated the walls – blue meadows, green skies, clouds of sulfur yellow.
“What do you do,’ he said, ‘if you devote your life to discovering criminals, and it gradually occurs to you that the real criminals are the people you work for?  Fartherland offers a dismaying vision of what could have been. If the Nazis had won world war two, if their power had continued to spread, they would have owned half the world perhaps even all of it if they conquered at the speed they demonstrated in the 1930s. Their momentum was near unbelievable. The world would be in a terrible sta
Such a thing is as bad as open revolution, in their eyes, so March has always been monitored heavily by the Gestapo: they don’t trust him or even allow him to advance in his line of profession despite his capabilities.
But such things have been twisted beyond all recognition; the law now protects the Nazis, essentially, allowing them to get away with murder.
Harris shows us a grim world that might have been and it’s quite scary to think how easily it could have been.
Harris provides a grim, cold, mechanical vision of society that would have followed in such an aftermath of Hitler's absolute victory.
When dealing with 'what if', then the list is pretty much endless.So then, Robert Harris's Fatherland is speculative fiction that contains historical scenarios based on an alternative pre and post war Europe.
One thing it isn't, is better than I expected.Although it kept me on tenterhooks, far too many moments were predictable, and had me almost yelling at the pages "no!, don't do that" or " stay away from there!, it's obvious what's going to happen!".
It's a tried and tested formula that works, yes, but has been done better in terms of the crime/mystery page-turning thriller genre.
It is the 1960’s in Berlin.
American President and Nazi sympathizer Joseph Kennedy has at long last agreed to meet with the Fuehrer.
A Berlin detective is called to investigate a murder, sees connections among various disappearances and follows them despite interference from his superiors.
Will he get the information out in time to foil the meeting (and corresponding approval) and label the Nazis for the psycho killers they really are?
It is a fast-paced fun read, even though we can guess much.
[Although I read the book and wrote the above in 2008, it appears that it was never posted.
March’s investigation eventually leads him to secrets going back to the war that his government is desperate to keep buried.So yes, this is another book about the most asked question in alternate history: What if the Nazis won World War II?
It’s all well-ordered prosperity on the surface, but the police state nature of it all lurks just below the surface with the average citizen’s paranoia encouraged by the government to keep them fearful and obedient.March is an interesting character in this as a man who did his part in the war on board a U-boat, but he doesn’t much like the SS uniform he wears now.
Like Hitler once predicted, the Nazis got away with it.In this Germany, Xavier March is a homicide cop called to investigate a body pulled from the river.
Readers start to feel like they live in this reality where Germany won WWII.The mystery in this book is based on real history-- the 1942 Wannsee Conferrence, when 14 men gathered around a table and casually decided to send all of Europe's Jews to their deaths.
And I'm not recommending this just because Colin Firth is in it, but it doesn't hurt.This is my first Robert Harris book, but it won't be my last.
Or could he?The great thing about  Fatherland is that  Robert Harris doesn't try to do too much with the counterfactual history.
It's definitely there, of course, but the reader discovers it naturally as (fictional) historical details come up in the flow of the novel.
And that leaves the reader wanting to know more, excited whenever details are revealed.
The fact that the novel also features a great story that is interesting both on its own and in relation to this counterfactual history also helps, of course.
"A police state is a country run by criminals." -Robert Harris, FatherlandNazi Noir + alternative historical fiction is an interesting mix of genres. It's my birthday and late, so I'll review this tomorrow. If Gestapo dreams don't get me. But for now, Robert Harris is definitely a guilty pleasure.
Can you read a book too many times ?
Well, I have to admit that this is the seventh time I've read Fatherland & I still thinks it's as fresh as when I first read it over twenty years ago.
The story just seems to grip me from first page to last.
I urge anyone to read this novel who has not done so already.
However, if lack of time prevents you doing this there is also an excellent audio version read by a Werner Klemperer, a very good full cast BBC audio version & a gripping TV movie starring the ever dependable Rutger Hauer.
It was a very enjoying read indeed.The book presents an anternate history scenario where Hitler has won the Second World War and Eastern Europe has been conquered by the Nazis.
A body has been discovered and enters Xavier March, ex-navy and presently an investigator in Kripo - the Kriminal Polizei.
He is actually similar to many detectives we usually find in crime fiction - utter contempt for politics and sycophancy, marital discord & divorce, immersion in work to survive.Some people have compared this novel with the Gorky Park- an excellent novel and drawn similarities between Xavier March and Arkady Renko, the protagonist of Gorky Park.
Hitler remains as head of Germany’s Western European empire with several of his key associates like Joseph Goebbels and Reinhard Heydrich in positions of power.Following Germany’s discovery of the cracking of the Enigma Code, the Reich cruised to victory over its enemies in Europe.
As they continue to investigate behind the back of the SS, the duo threatens to uncover Germany’s darkest secret.My only complaint deals with what felt like a shoehorned romantic connection between March and MaGuire.
It’s strange to say that I enjoyed reading about a world in which Hitler had won because let’s be honest, that would be a nightmare scenario.
Certo, sapeva per esperienza che i segreti erano come un acido: una volta allo scoperto, potevano corrodere qualunque cosa, se potevano rovinare un matrimonio, perché non potevano fare altrettanto con una presidenza, con uno Stato?
Un uomo che consacra la sua vita allo Stato nazista più che altro per inerzia, la stessa che porta a non farsi domande troppo pericolose per avere una risposta.Lettura soddisfacente.__________________________ «C'è una poesia di Erich Kàstner…Marschliedchen!
Harris explores the dark nooks and crannies of the Nazi power structure through March's investigation and gives the reader a good feel for what the banality of evil looks like writ large (spoiler alert: it doesn't look good).What I most enjoyed about this book was how vibrant the characters were.
While I doubt he will, I would love it if Harris would write another book or twenty set in this alternate world.Fatherland is definitely worth checking out for those who enjoy alternative histories, WWII, thrillers, or some combination of the three.
As Hitler's 75th birthday approaches the murder of a man who has hidden ties to the top of the party is discovered. Detective Xavier March must now walk a tightrope over the chasm of state secrets as the Gestapo tries to cut the rope...having him fall may be the zugzwang the state wants to play.
Η Γερμανία έχει νικήσει στο Β'ΠΠ κι έχει εγείρει μνημεία ή κατασκεύασε λεωφόρους μεγαλύτερα από τα αντίστοιχα των άλλων χωρών.
Ο ανακριτής Μαρτς καλείται στον τόπο ανεύρεσης ενός πτώματος κι από εκεί κι έπειτα η ανεύρεση ενός δεύτερου πτώματος αντίστοιχου βεληνεκούς, τον βάζει σε υποψίες ότι οι δύο υποθέσεις συνδέονται.
Ο συγγραφέας έχει στήσει τον κόσμο του πολύ ρεαλιστικά, ένα πολιτικό θρίλερ που τα έχει όλα: προπαγάνδα, διεφθαρμένους αξιωματικούς, προδότες, δοσίλογους, ξύλο, βασανιστήρια και εν ψυχρώ δολοφονίες για τη συγκάλυψη μιας αλήθειας που καταστρέφει.
Μαρτς: Αν ήμουν ο σκύλος σου, θα την έτρωγα ευχαρίστως" 
I chanced upon this book after reading Stephen's wonderful  review while here on Goodreads.
As Harris puts it"I like the conceit of having an honest policeman working for a criminal regime; a detective investigating a single death in a society founded on the greatest act of mass murder in history."However there were a few things which I disliked too...1.
A very personal opinion.Rants:I believe the book's greatest achievement lies not in being a wonderful thriller, but in presenting the dark alternative had the course of the 2nd World War taken such a turn.
Indeed, the end that the SS was heading towards in the book The Day After Tomorrow(Review  here) is a reality here.
Robert Harris never made me fall in love like this again.There are many books out there set in the universe of an Axis victory, but few capture its atmosphere so well: the suffocating conformism that indoctrinates the post-war generation, the casual cruelty of the regime's Praetorians, the ubiquitous double faces and hidden blemishes of the fanatics. When March travels to Switzerland "from one prison into another" he pretty much sums up the mental state of the dissident in any dictatorship.
الرواية الأولى للصحافي السياسي البريطاني روبرت هاريس، وهي الرواية التي جلبت له الشهرة والكثير من المال (باعت ٣ ملايين نسخة) وهي أيضا الرواية الرائدة في فن روائي جديد نسبيا وهو "رواية التاريخ البديل".
أي آنها تحاول إعادة سرد وحبك أحداث التاريخ المنتهية التي حصلت بطريقة ومسار جديد غير متوقع.التاريخ المذكور هنا هو نهاية الحرب العالمية الثانية، والرواية تسرد انتصار ألمانيا النازية في الحرب وسيطرتها على أوروبا والعالم.
ورغم ذلك كله إلا أن هناك مؤامرة شنيعة داخل النظام النازي للتخلص من الزعيم العالمي المنتصر أدولف هتلر.هذه رواية تخلط بدقة شديدة ما بين التحليل النفسي للشعوب والأفراد، وبين تقنيات الحبكة السريعة المكثفة وبين إعادة كتابة التاريخ.استمتعت بقراءة نوع جديد من الفن الروائي.
Robert Harris' brilliantly thrilling and thought-provoking debut novel - set in a post WWII (1960's) alternative Germany; one where Nazi Germany had previously won the war. An excellent thriller set against a wonderfully imagined and evoked backdrop of a world that so very easily might have been... The first of many excellent thrillers from the pen of Robert Harris, but this is where it all started.Not to be missed.
But after seeing some good reviews on this book, I thought I would give it a chance and am glad that I did.Basically the story is a police procedural but it is set in a Europe which is now under Nazi rule.
Xavier March is an officer in the Kripo, a police unit one step below the Gestapo and is called to the scene of an apparent suicide of a former Nazi high official.
I will only say that Officer March finds information that would throw the world into chaos and expose the horrors of the Holocaust among other incidents.The author paints a believable picture of what Europe would look like if the Nazi's had won the war and how German society would have evolved.
Soon, March is on the run with a beautiful American reporter as the conspiracy ramps up, and unsettling questions about Nazi Germany's past begin to come to the surface.Potential Spoilers from here on:  you've been warned!Robert Harris has written a fascinating book about an alternate history where Germany has won WWII, by tying in a small time detective and a murder case out of his league.
Buhler, and other murdered Nazi's, including Martin Luther and others, were actually present at a meeting in 1942 to plan and implement the holocaust.
The man in the high castle নামের TV series দেখে এর নেপথযের শিরোনাম বইটি পড়ার ইচছা জাগে। এই বইটিও সাথে নামাই।Alternative history জনরাটা খুব রোমাঞচকর।ধরুন ইতিহাসের কোন বড় ঘটনা এখনকার মত না হয়ে যদি ভিননরকম হতো,তবে কেমন হতো আজকের পৃথিবীটা? বইটার কাহিনি এমন এক পৃথিবীর ,যেখানে হিটলারের নাজি বাহিনী দবিতীয় বিশবযুদধে বিজয়ী হয়।শীতল সনায়ুযুদধ চলে মারকিন ও নাজি-জারমানদের মাঝে।ইউরোপের ইহুদিদের ওপর নেমে আসে নিশচিহন হবার খড়গ। সতযঘটনার আলোকে লেখা হারডবয়েলড উপনযাস (বাংলাটা কী হতে পারে?) এটি।হাইডরিখ,হিমলার,গোয়েব
বইটার কাহিনি এমন এক পৃথিবীর ,যেখানে হিটলারের নাজি বাহিনী দ্বিতীয় বিশ্বযুদ্ধে বিজয়ী হয়।শীতল স্নায়ুযুদ্ধ চলে মার্কিন ও নাজি-জার্মানদের মাঝে।ইউরোপের ইহুদিদের ওপর নেমে আসে নিশ্চিহ্ন হবার খড়্‌গ। সত্যঘটনার আলোকে লেখা হার্ডবয়েল্ড উপন্যাস (বাংলাটা কী হতে পারে?) এটি।হাইড্রিখ,হিমলার,গোয়েবল্‌স সব শীর্ষকুখ্যাতরাই জড়ানো কাহিনিতে।অন্যান্য চরিত্রও বিশ্বযুদ্ধচলাকালীন মন্ত্রী-আমলাদের নিয়েই, বাস্তব নথিপত্রের দোহাই নিয়েই লিখেছেন হ্যারিস সাহেব। জার্মান শব্দ উচ্চারণের বেশ একটা চর্চা হয়ে গেছে এটি পড়ার সাথে। মূলচরিত্র জেভিয়ার মার্চ জার্মান তদন্তসংস্থা Kripo-র একজন মধ্যমসারির গোয়েন্দা।৪২ বছর বয়েসী এই টিকটিকি সুপার-ডুপার হিরো টাইপ কেউ নয়, আমাদের আশপাশের মানুষের মতোই।আমাদের গোয়েন্দাচরিত্রগুলোর মতো ভিক্টোরিয়ান মোরালিটিতেও আক্রান্ত নয়। এব্যাপারটা বাস্তবের সাথে আরো সঙ্গতিপূর্ণ করেছে। দিশি গোয়েন্দা-কাহিনিতে ভদ্রলোক অজ্ঞান করার উদ্দেশ্য নিয়ে পেছন থেকে মমতা মিশিয়ে পেপার ওয়েট দিয়ে বাড়ি দেন আর তাতে বেচারা ভুলে মরে যায়!এই কাহিনিতে প্রকৃত অর্থেই নির্মমতার আবহ;রক্ত,খুন,নাজিদের বীভৎসতা উঠে এসেছে।খুব স্বাভাবিক প্রবৃত্তি আদিম-রসকেও সেন্সর করে অস্বাভাবিক করে দেয়া হয়নি।এবই পড়ে ফেলুদাকে এখন আর ঠিক বড়দের কাহিনি বলে মনে হচ্ছেনা!
The story is police procedural and based on the alternate history, if German had won the Second World War, the protagonist Herr Sturmbannfuhrer Xavier March, homicide investigator with the Berlin Kriminalpolizei, he previously worked in Kriegsmarine during WWII, married to Klara had a son named Pili, after promoted to Berlin his marriage failed.
Upon verification that old man was Buhler a senior civil servant who was close to Hitler.
Then another case comes up now it is Doctor Wilhelm Stuckhart who was also a senior civil servant and close to Hitler.
Harris has the Nazis winning World War II.
The timeline of the story is 1964.The book is well written and researched.
I believe that Harris had George Orwell’s “Nineteen Eighty-Four” in mind when writing this story.
Considering what is happening in the world today, I found this book most interesting.
I also found it intriguing that Harris made Joseph Kennedy the President of the United States.
This book is well worth the read.I read this as an audiobook downloaded from Audible.
Michael Jayston does a great job narrating the book.
Jayston is an English actor and a long-time well-known audiobook narrator.
8.5/10This turned into a gripping read and by the end I was well and truly absorbed in this alternative reality and “what if” scenario of Germany winning the war.
Although, I’ve read two books recently where Germany won the war.
I’m starting to doubt my knowledge now…did the Axis powers really win?!It took a while to get going in this book, presumably because a lot of information was provided in this alternative reality and making the reader aware of the police state and nervousness of any non-conforming thoughts/opinions.
Harris is climbing up my list of favourite authors at a rate of knots.
Again, as in the case of  Simple Genius, this is the reason I don’t read more fiction.
Even the historical fiction nature of the book, (Germany wins WWII, it’s a different world, yada, yada, yada—you can read more of the storyline in the reviews others have written) couldn’t save it for me.I thought that both this book and  Simple Genius had excellent premises but the stories failed to draw me in like a good  Dean Koontz book.
The book ends sort of like the movie Field of Dreams where they went into the cornfield and that was it.
Interesting premise to this mystery/police procedural. There are none so blind as those who don't want to see. Enjoyed the world building and atmosphere of the novel. Chilling when you think about it.Interesting primary character in March, a man outside of the norm, dogged and persistent to bring the truth to light.Well written, enjoyed the ending, it was fitting to the tone of the novel overall although it did drag a bit in the middle.
Con este panorama, Alemania se apresta a celebrar el 75 aniversario de Hitler, que sigue vivo y coleando.
Como remate, y para alcanzar una distensión entre los dos grandes bloques, el presidente norteamericano anuncia una próxima visita de cortesía a Hitler.Y en medio de este clima, al detective Xavier March le encargan investigar la aparición de un cadáver, un ex alto cargo del régimen, lo que desencadenará toda una serie de consecuencias imprevisibles.
Me ha recordado un poco a las novelas de Philip Kerr, autor que me tiene enganchado con su Bernie Gunther.
En mi opinión, una magnífica novela.
The story's main character, Detective Xavier March, is an SS officer, police person, apparently they are not quiet the same thing, investigating the murder of a Nazi government official who was one of the participants at the Wannsee Conference, none of that I knew for awhile anyway, all we know is that there is a dead guy in a swimsuit in the water dead.
It won't get any better for him when he finds there are more high ranking Nazi officials who have died recently, some of suicide, some by accident, things like that, and still keeps on working the case.
