https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/362000.Ah_Wilderness_
On the other hand, it's solid, a reflective fantasy on the life O'Neill never lived, with a teen main character very much like himself, so that's interesting.
I have to say the play made me a little sad, since O’Neill himself never experienced anything like the happy and supportive family he depicts here— and two of his own children committed suicide, too--which is part of the reason why, though often pretty funny, Ah, Wilderness feels not quite convincing as an endorsement of Love Everlasting.
I liked that aspect of the production, though; it made for an interesting reflection on racial family-making, even if O'Neill's play wasn't about that.
A sweet sentimental play - so different from the usual O'Neill fare. I loved it, especially the autumnal romance. ...Well, spring isn't everything, is it, Essie? There's a lot to be said for autumn. That'said got beauty, too. And winter - if you're together.You hit it on the head, Nat Miller.
O’Neill tries comedy. Act 2 is amusing. The rest flat.
I found it fun because the story is based in 1906, the play was published in 1933 and I am reading it in 2008....so the mannerisms of the characters and the stage direction in the play are both "old fashioned".Like all good dysfunctional family plots, there is some alcoholism, a bratty child, some know-it-all drama teens, some people in denial, and someone trying to tie it all together.
Maybe I read it with the wrong tone?Seems like this play could be interpreted on the stage from a few different points of view...not that I am theater expert or a dramaturg.
Plays, I think, are meant to be viewed on a stage-especially comedic plays. Seeing the play performed at the Goodman Theatre in Chicago by an outstanding cast really brought it to life. The subtlety of the lines were highlighted in this first class rendering of the play.
This was quite the enjoyable read--even though I had to read it for school. I could tell that there were so many scenes that would be really hilarious when staged. It was still funny when I was reading it! I loved how specific all the stage directions were because they allowed me to truly visualize the whole play.
This play is Eugene O'Neill's only comedy. Very nice. I liked it when I read it, but enjoyed seeing it on the stage at UVU ever more. The play, written in 1913, had a prhase that I only heard my mother say: Little pitchers have big ears. She was referring to me when she said that.
I liked it - Made me laugh out loud several times. The characters are vivid, and the plot is short and sweet. Can't wait to see it performed by the Tara seniors.
I do not like O'Neill's plays. Oh, sure, they're an important historical artifact but I find them too angsty and tedious and overwrought.
Covering the musical based on this play next week.
As much as I enjoy Eugene O'Neill, I couldn't muster much enthusiasm for this.###
Ah, Wilderness by Eugene O’NeillThere are some wonderful versions of this play on the internet, incl
But maybe it plays better than it reads on the page.
A lot of the nostalgic charm depends on us looking back to 1906 and thinking it was a naive time: the way Essie Miller, for instance, is shocked by her son’s taste in literature – Bernard Shaw and other firebrands – might be comic, but it is comic because we know better.
My problem is that I’m not convinced Eugene O’Neill was sincere in all this: I think it all rings a little hollow.
plays better on the stage, maybe there are deeper emotions under the surface, but I missed them reading the text.
Simple Charm and TruthA quaint but charming tale that remains true to human behavior, even though O'Neill knew it was a romantic fantasy.
Both funny and quite beautiful. A very nice read.
3.5. Charming and haunting as you read the story of the author's life.
There’s certainly drunkenness and misery and some of the other O’Neill hallmarks, but overall it’s a tender family portrait that handles the characters and situations with a light touch.
Written in 1933 but set in 1906 (which would be like writing a play in 2013 that’s set in 1986), there’s undoubtedly a nostalgic tone that’s hard to trace 80 years on, but the characters remain as vibrant and relatable as ever.
O'Neill showed that he can do comedic sections in his previous plays, but I remember the humor always being a little bit cynically barbed.
I guess in Depression New York, he thought it might be time to let it loose with broad strokes of wordplay, slapstick and situation comedy.I also think that this is O'Neill's "What I wish my family could have been" play.
He's so naive that he thinks Wilde was convicted of bigamy.But it is the father that seems the most wishful thinking of the lot - a sensitive but reality-based (he runs a successful newspaper) patriarch who is fooled by no-one but puts everybody on the right track.
Not the O'Neill I'm accustomed and somewhat bland for that reason. I guess drinking too much champagne and flirting with a "loose girl" was extremely risqué behavior in the 1930s, but it doesn't make for much dramatic tension. I'm hoping to see this onstage soon, and maybe I will change my opinion.
Was visiting Eugene O'Neill's house in New London and bought this play there. Hadn't read a play in years. VERY dated, but I can see why it would have been well received in the 1920's when he wrote it. Coming of age book. Short and there was some humor in it unlike most of his other works.
This is still nice enough to read, a slice of Americana that's pleasantly nostalgic for a time gone past, but I think it has dated in a way that only a high level theater would get enough of the subtleties out of it to create a good production anymore. The humor would be lost on modern audiences.
Eugene O'Neill - The King of Comedy! - it's like Tony Robbins writing a monograph on E.M. Cioran
Found in : Contemporary Drama 15 plays pg 278 with notes
إنه تيه الأحباء :)
I loved working on this play in school, it's pretty hilarious. My roommates got so sick of hearing me repeat these lines and trounce all over the house.
4.5
