https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1342371.A_London_Child_of_the_1870s
In the other anecdote, Molly cried in order to get her brother into trouble, because she wanted the book he was reading and her father took her upstairs and whipped her because, he explained, it was as bad for a girl to try to get what she wanted by crying as it was for a boy to do the same by hitting.
Yet, Molly is easily old enough to be grandmother to Mariana – Hughes frequently makes reference to how times have moved on, how little traffic there was, how long it took to travel anywhere by train – in short how the world has revolutionised within her lifetime.
It’s a memoir written by the youngest child of a middle class, literary-minded Victorian family whose idyllic London childhood is described in lively and loving detail.
The final chapter of the book describes the last Christmas the family was able to share together and the book ends abruptly with Molly telling us in the middle of the last paragraph that “one evening my father did not return.” It’s an unsettling ending to a book about a life that just might not have been as happy and carefree as the author would have us believe.
Il primo di una serie di tre memoir, A London Child of the 1870's racconta per l'appunto l'infanzia vittoriana di Molly Hughes.
La famiglia di Molly era una famiglia qualsiasi, non povera, non ricca, non famosa o amica di persone famose.
La vita qualsiasi di questa numerosa famiglia particolarmente amante della lettura (Molly era la figlia più giovane e aveva quattro fratelli) è descritta in modo gioioso e idilliaco, tanto che è difficile conciliare la voce che sentiamo durante tutto il libro con il finale, una chiusura secca e dolorosa.robertabookshelf.blogspot.it/2013/09/...
She tells her story simply but with real wit.
She's the youngest and only girl in a rambunctious Victorian family that lives to read.Eventually, later, she faces real adversity, but in this story she's recounting a happy childhood.
On Sunday morning, on a long walk to St. Paul's for church service, the family plays 'wayside cribbage': "man carrying baby, 5 points; three in a hansom, 5; perambulator, 1; cat in window, 15; ladder, 1; man with a mourning hatband, 5; any one we knew to speak to (very rare), 31, game."Another excellent woman writer, brought back into publication by Persephone Books.
Molly Hughes’ memoirs, about her childhood in London in the 1870s give a vivid account of what it was like to be a child at that time.
Here is an example:As I lay awake in the morning, I could see the houses opposite and a good bit of the street.
I ought to have asked my father.Born in 1866, Molly lived with her family in Canonbury Park North, which is in Islington, North London.
Losing a loved one suddenly is a devastating event.
Especially when the person is your father, and you are a thirteen-year-old girl.
We girls agreed to remain in our big long bedroom, with windows on two sides, and pretend to be besieged in Lucknow.
Next thing we knew Edgar's head was upside down at one of the windows.
Our poor aims with pieces of soap and nail-brushes had no effect, and soon the battle was raging fiercely through the streets of Lucknow, round and under the beds, with pillows, bolsters, and knotted towels as weapons.
The book makes one wish one had a childhood like this, and to travel back in time to meet Molly and her four older brothers.
So with A London Child therefore I was very much back in familiar territory, which Liz bought me for Christmas, and is on the Seven Ages of Women list.Molly Hughes was born Mary Thomas in 1866 and she tells us that her childhood memories begin in 1870 and end in 1879 when the family underwent a seismic change.
A London Child of the 1870’s is in fact the first of a quartet of memoirs by Molly Hughes: A London Girl of the 1880s, A London Home in the 1890s, and A London Family Between the Wars.
Molly Hughes writes of her young years growing up in Victorian London with four brothers older than herself and intelluctual, devoted, and reasonable parents.
This gentle, humorous memoir tells of their games, the tricks the children played, their books, household goings-on, and just everyday living.
98) The book ends on a sad note, however, with the sudden death of her father.
Published in 1934, the book is compared to Flora Thompson's "Lark Rise to Candleford, whereas Flora Thompson describes the rural, Molly Hughes covers the urban life.
A wonderful peek into an interesting family. Hughes has a delightful voice. I fell in love with her brothers and especially her Aunt Tony in Cornwall. Grateful for the other thoughtful reviews.(I'm a huge fan of Persephone Books now, too. Getting this book in the mail made me giddy - it's so beautiful!)
It felt 3 stars for the first half of the book, but then it gradually grew to 4. Nice quotidian details of Victorian life. I particularly liked the Cornwall scenes. In just a few scenes, Hughes sounds like a precursor to Betty MacDonald.
My first Persephone book and it was a hoot!
The author was the youngest child in her family, the only girl with four older brothers, and it's comforting to see that sibling behavior isn't much different then from what it is now.
At its core, life isn't really much different 140 years ago.Molly's mother, who had come from a wealthy and educated family in Cornwall, encouraged her daughter to be curious and adventurous in her learning and experiences.
In fact, there are so many examples of situations where, in her young life, Molly is exasperated and frustrated by the fact that there are so many things she wants to do, or places she wants to go, but cannot because she is a female.
Carefully my father then filled the jug with boiling water.
Carefully, because once the boiling water smashed the jug, and everything splashed over the dining-room table.
"We've lost the punch," said he, " we needn't also lose a bit of our lives by crying over it."The warmly appreciative introduction by Adam Gopnik is better read as an afterword since it contains some "spoilers".First read: May 21 to June 11 2011Enjoyed as much for Persephone book group January 2012
c1934: I had been looking forward to this book especially as I love all things London.
I really really wish that I had not read the preface which, for me, absolutely ruined the book.
I ended up scanning the book more than reading it as it deserved to be - but gained the impression that, without the ruinous introduction by Mr Gopnik, I would have enjoyed it.
Boooooooooo.“Again and again I turned to something entitled The Dark Journey, only to find that it was an account of one’s digestion.
No, there was still that forbidding picture of one’s insides cut through the middle”
Molly Hughes' childhood memoir is a pleasure in and of itself plus a treasure-trove of insights into "ordinary life" in Victorian London.
I read the edition published by Persephone Books (a great press!), and it has a preface by Adam Gopnik.
Persephone publishes interesting titles and makes sure that its books are a physical pleasure to hold, look at, and read.
If you happen to get their edition of this book, don't read the preface first!
I'm not sure I like Gopnik's preface, but I caution against reading it first because it contains a HUGE spoiler.
Molly was the youngest of five children and the only girl, growing up in north London with her parents, brothers and two servants.
Her parents seem quite unusual, although it’s hard to be sure – much more ‘modern’ than one would think from reading about the families in Victorian novels.
As a girl, there was a lot that Molly wasn’t allowed to do, but her brothers sneaked her out to take her on the top of a horse-drawn omnibus, sitting up with the driver, and they had a lot of fun, especially on the annual visits to her mother's large family on a farm in Cornwall.
Love this, and was not expecting to. I put it on my to-read list hoping it would give me some insight into the London my grandparents grew up in, but realised they were born around 1890 rather than 1870. (We're a tribe of slow breeders).But I dutifully started this, expecting to be educated, and was delighted to be charmed instead. The library copy contained both other books in the trilogy, so I read those too, and enjoyed them very much.A few startling gender issues aside, Molly's attitudes are pretty modern and her character is splendid.
Wish I could have given it 3.5 stars, but I didn't quite think it merited 4. It's not a long book, but I liked what I read. I wanted to read more really.I was most particularly moved by the abrupt way she describes the death of her father at the end of the book. Knowing that there was more to the story than she let on really made me sympathize with the girl who went through that 135 years ago.Persephone books REALLY needs to republish the other 2 books in the series!
3.5
Sweet and evocative without being sentimental.
Be warned, this is a delightful book about a very happy childhood but it ends on a shocking note.
942.1081 H8941 2005
A book that will make you smile until the bitter end.
Enormously entertaining autobiography about middle class 1870s childhood. Charming and evocative.
