https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/604117.C_P_Cavafy
It seems so right that a prominent classicist should have translated Cavafy, whose poems range from paeans to same-sex pleasure--rivaling those of Catullus--to exquisitely rich poems set in a range of ancient Greek and Roman historical contexts.
they mustn't be seenby those who prate about morals,     those who wear gray clothes—verses about a pleasure     that is select, that movestoward a barren love     of which the world disapproves.As Mendelsohn explains in a note:"The date of 400 A.D. is suggestive, marking as it does a historical moment not long after the triumph of Christianity in the Roman Empire, and not long before the advent of the barbarians; for this reason, the date Cavafy chooses for this poem evokes the short clarion swan song of pagan Classical culture." Also "Those who wear gray clothes is a reference to Christians."
Come back and take hold of me,  beloved feeling come back and take hold of me,  when the memory of the body reawakens,  and old longing once more passes through the blood;  when the lips and skin remember,  and the hands feel like they’re touching once again.  Come back often and take hold of me at night,  when the lips and skin remember …. The translator, Daniel Mendelsohn, has done a sterling job of bringing the works of this mesmerizing poet to life. The introduction is excellent as are the
The translator, Daniel Mendelsohn, has done a sterling job of bringing the works of this mesmerizing poet to life.
Perhaps that is why our era has canonized him: As we face the perishing of our own worlds, we better appreciate his anguish and acceptance, his utter lack of self-deceiving sentimentality or conventional emotion as he observes the evanescence of life, pleasure, love.The beauty of the internet is that one can come across comments such as that made by Henry Miller.The innocent comment was that there were perhaps references to Cavafy in the Alexandria Quartet.
ونفس الشىء بالنسبة لوصفه للشخصيات : لمحات قليلة كأنها ضربات فرشاة قليلة وسريعة لفنان حديث تنقل لنا إنسانا بكل مشاعره في لحظة معينة, وذلك بدون مبالغة أو ألوان زاعقةشعر كفافي - سواء كان في ظاهره يتحدث عن التاريخ أو العشق أو الفلسفة أو الشعر- يعود بنا إلى عدة عصور وأماكن محددة تتكرر كثيرا.
وهناك الكثير من الأشعار الشبقية التي لا يخفي فيها كفافيس ميوله الجنسية المثلية, ولكن هذه الأشعار تركز على الجانب الإنساني والوجودي لهذه العلاقات : تأثير الظروف ورفض المجتمع لهذه العلاقات والفقر والزمن والموت.
وهناك فكرة تتكرر كثيرا بأشكال لا نهاية لها : أن الفن والشعر والثقافة هي الآثار الأكثر أهمية التي يمكن أن يتركها الإنسان للأجيال القادمة, أهم من السلطة والعظمة والمجد والثروة
Π. Καβάφης, Εκόμισα εις την ΤέχνηΔιασπορικό υποκείμενο και ποιητής παγκόσμιας λογοτεχνίας, δεν περιορίζεται στην ελληνική παράδοση, ο Καβάφης πολεμήθηκε εξίσου από την παλαμική/σεφερική γενιά αλλά και από τον σοσιαλισμό, λόγω της απαισιοδοξίας του, της παρακμιακής νότας των ποιημάτων του, επειδή σκοπός του δεν ήταν να προτείνει το ιδανικό της νέας κοινωνίας.Ο Παπανικολάου στο κείμενό του "Σαν κ' εμένα καμωμένοι": Ο ομοφυλόφιλος Καβάφης και η ποιητική της σεξουαλικότητας τον χαρακτηρίζει δικαιολογημένα ποιητή του ευάλωτου εαυτού, προσθέτοντας πως το έργο του είναι μια συνεχή προσπάθεια αυτοπροσδιορισμού, αυτοαναίρεσης, όπου αντικατοπτρίζεται ένας εαυτός να αυτοεκτίθεται.
Η χρονιά που διανύουμε είναι αφιερωμένη στο μεγάλο ποιητής της Αλεξάνδρειας που κατάφερε να διακριθεί με το λιτό, απέριττο και ειρωνικό ποιητικό του λόγο αγγίζοντας διαχρονικά θέματα όπως η ήττα, ο θάνατος και τα γηρατειά.
وإن لم تستطع تشكيل حياتك كما تريدفحاول - على الأقل - بقدر ما تستطيع ألا تبتذلها/تحية كبيرة لترجمة رفعت سلام
Bir şiir kitabını "okudum bitirdim" olarak nitelendirmek ne kadar doğru bilmiyorum.
Kavafis son zamanlarda o kadar çok çıktı ki karşıma, bu bir mesaj olmalı diye düşündüm.
Bu sunumdan birkaç hafta sonra tek dizim Vatanım Sensin'de "favori çift"imin :) bir sahnesinde geçti Barbarları Beklerken (Sahne için: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayfsZ...).
Yine birkaç hafta sonra Zülfü Livaneli'nin 50.
Şarkı da Melihat Gülses de o kadar içine işliyordu ki insanın şarkıyı Google'da arattığımda sözlerinin bir Kavafis şiirinden -Gerilerde- alındığını öğrendim (Şarkı için: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9Q7f...).
Bu bana bir işaret diye düşünüp kitabı aldım.
Ari Çokona'dan pek çok tragedya ve komedya okudum ve hepsinden de büyük bir keyif aldım.
Introduction by Peter Mackridge.Poems 1897-1909, 1905-15, 1916-18, 1919-33.Cavafy was born on 29 April 1863 in Alexandria and died there on his 70th birthday.
Most of his life was spent in Alexandria; a life which appears to have been largely uneventful.
They are about “beauty of deviant appeal...created for beds that every day morality labels shameless”.I found the long introduction to the book extremely useful.I could quote endlessly from the poems but will confine myself to two:Perception (from Poems 1916-18)The years of my youth, my sensuous life-how clearly I see their meaning now!What useless, what futile repentances…..But I couldn't see their meaning then.Within the wanton life of my youthmy poetic will was being shaped,the territory of my art was being drawn.And thus repentances were never steadfast.And my resolutions to restrain myself, to change,lasted no more than two weeks, at the most.Very Seldom (from Poems 1905-1915)He is an old man.
The versions differ, sometimes subtly altering the ambiance and the meaning of Cavafy's poems.
The experience of the years shows it to me.But Destiny arrived in some haste and stopped them.The beautiful life was brief.But how potent were the perfumes,On how splendid a bed we lay,To what sensual delight we gave our bodies.An echo of the days of pleasure,An echo of the days drew near me,A little of the fire of the youth of both of us,Again I took in my hands a letter,And I read and reread till the light was gone.And melancholy, I came out on the balconyCame out to change my thoughts at least by looking atA little of the city that I loved,A little movement on the street and in the shops.Translated by John CavafyBy no means could those things have lasted long.The experience of the years has shown it me.Still, it was somewhat hurriedly that fatestopped them.
Compare, for example, Edmund Keeley's translation of "Body, Remember":Body, remember not only how much you were loved, not only the beds you lay on, but also those desires that glowed openly in eyes that looked at you, trembled for you with Mendelsohn's "Remember, Body":Body, remember not just how much you were loved,not just the beds where you have lain,But also those longings that so openlyglistened for you in eyesTo my mind, the later adds nothing in meaning and is slightly inferior in style.
If you can find it, my recommended translation is the older one by Rae Dalven, The Complete Poems of Cavafy: Expanded Edition, with bonus introduction by Auden.
3.5/5Historian poet. Poet of desire. Poet of antiquity. Overall, this is a very well done collection of Cavafy's poetry. I enjoyed the robust introduction and notes. I would definitely recommend it for people interested in Cavafy's work. As for the poems themselves, many I adored, some I liked, and some I didn't care for at all.
Like old friends,a reunion is always on the cards and always a pleasure.Which is why I have only recorded the Starting Date, in Athens, almost 40 years ago now,because as far as I can tell, I will never be finished with this book, with these poems, with Cavafy.You go to poets or write poetry to get questions answered or to see the questions perfectly put.
Cavafy offered me a piece of himself, as all good friends do, which I used when I finally found a real need to express myself in poetry.His poems were also on topics that resonated with me - poems about history, resignation, acceptance of life, frustrated passions, loss, the comfort of memory and...love.
Completely alone in the house,whom could I talk to?Since nine o’clock when I lit the lampthe shade of my young bodyhas come to haunt me, to remind meof shut scented rooms,of past sensual pleasure—what daring pleasure.And it’s also brought back to mestreets now unrecognizable,bustling night clubs now closed,theatres and cafés no longer there.The shade of my young bodyalso brought back the things that make us sad:family grief, separations,the feelings of my own people, feelingsof the dead so little acknowledged.Half past twelve.
Πως μπορούμε εμείς οι μικροί να σχολιάσουμε τους τεράστιους δασκάλους μας?Μόνο ταπεινά και με σεβασμό μέσα από τα λόγια τους μπορούμε να αναφερθούμε σε αυτούς."Την εμορφιά έτσι πολύ ατένισα,που πλήρης είναι αυτής η όρασίς μου."
Cavafy was born into a Greek family living in Alexandria in 1863, a city which he came to love as his own life.
There are several excellent translated collections of his poems; I have at least four.
In all of them you'll find poems musing about ancient Greeks and Romans right next to verses written in late middle age about the fleeting loves of his youth.
Here's one of the latter, one of my favorites (from the translation by Rae Dalven):One NightThe room was poor and squalid,hidden above the dubious tavern.From the window you could see the alleyfilthy and narrow.
Barnstone, in her Foreword to this volume [translates and] quotes "In a Large Greek Colony, 200 B.C.E." The poem, written in 1928, is a "gentle and sane" criticism of progressivism, and can, with little revision, describe the men and women of our good Senate who, with great heat and words, perform surgery on our lives.
The last two stanzas of the poem read: "And when, with good luck, they finish their work,having ordered and pared everything down to the last detail,they leave, taking away their rightful wages, as well.We'll see what remains, afterso much expert surgery.Perhaps the time had not yet come.Let's not rush; haste is a dangerous thing.Premature measures bring regret.Certainly and unfortunately, there is much disorder in the ColonyBut is there anything human without imperfection?
But the windows are not found, or I cannotfind them. And perhaps it is better I do not find them.Perhaps the light will be a new tyranny.Who knows what new things it will show?Cavafy
I was bored by Rorem and Gide, but there were a few great Cavafy poems, it seemed to me at the time, for example "Waiting for the Barbarians", that set apart this late 19th century-early 20th century Greek speaking poet who lived in Alexandria, Egypt from the other merely transgressive, but certainly not transcendent, purveyors of illicit literary pleasures.I almost didn't bother to pick up the Mendelsohn translation when I saw it in a Sydney bookstore this week, because in my mind I had long ago pigeon-holed Cavafy as a second tier poet of historically subtle poems and of ardent, but somewhat tiresome, gay eroticism.I am so glad that I bought this book.
BUEN TIEMPO/MAL TIEMPOMe alegra que se vayael invierno con sus nieblas, temporales y frío.La primavera entra en mí, oh alegría verdadera.La risa es como un rayo de sol, todo de oro puro,no hay otro jardín como el amor, el calor de la canción derrite todas las nieves.Qué agradable cuando la primavera siembra de flores las verdes campiñas.Pero si tienes el corazón herido es como si llega el invierno.La tristeza pueda empañar el más brillante de los soles;si estás apenado, Mayo parecerá Diciembre,porque las lágrimas son tan frías como la nieve.
My favorite example is "Two Young Men, 23 to 24 Years Old." A young man sits alone in a cafe, drinking up what little money he has while waiting for his lover, thinking he's been abandoned and beginning to "have disturbing thoughts / about the immoral life he was living." Eventually, though, these thoughts vanish when his lover shows up later, flush with winnings from a card game, and "their good looks, their exquisite youthfulness, / the sensitive love they shared/ were refreshed, livened, invigorated / by the sixty pounds from the card table." Unable to use the homes of the "respectable families (where they were no longer wanted anyway)," the men rent a room in a "very special house of debauchery," where they spend of the rest of the night buying expensive drinks before finally, at 4am, "happy, they gave themselves to love."The mood in this poem takes several sharp turns, from near despair to elation, from illusion of youthful celebration (dependent on money) to (hidden) freedom of wild carousing to blissful lovemaking.
The versions differ, sometimes subtly altering the ambiance and the meaning of Cavafy's poems.
The experience of the years shows it to me.But Destiny arrived in some haste and stopped them.The beautiful life was brief.But how potent were the perfumes,On how splendid a bed we lay,To what sensual delight we gave our bodies.An echo of the days of pleasure,An echo of the days drew near me,A little of the fire of the youth of both of us,Again I took in my hands a letter,And I read and reread till the light was gone.And melancholy, I came out on the balconyCame out to change my thoughts at least by looking atA little of the city that I loved,A little movement on the street and in the shops.Translated by John CavafyBy no means could those things have lasted long.The experience of the years has shown it me.Still, it was somewhat hurriedly that fatestopped them.
His style is simple and direct (everybody says that) and most of the poems are short snatches of history, a dashed-off situation, a voice, a perspective pulled out of the past – frequently an ordinary voice, an unexpected perspective.I think anybody with an interest in the Hellenic world might get into these poems, as an alternate kind of historical fiction.
My own iconic poem remains ‘Expecting the Barbarians’; and I like the Rae Dalven of this one, out of five or so versions I’ve seen on the web.
Having been a fan of all things Greek from an early age (my 11th birthday to be exact!), I was familiar with most of the people from ancient times but the notes were still interesting and informative.Although I think that the two poems most familiar to me before reading this volume, Ithaca and Waiting for the Barbarians, were the best, I did discover several others that I liked almost as much such as As Much As You Can, Second Odyssey and Safe Haven.
I actually have the paperback edition of this volume which includes the unfinished poems as well.
It's a good idea to go that route since many of the unfinished poems would seem to be pretty close to "finished", or at least they read wonderfully.Mendelsohn, the translator, needs to be praised on two fronts.
I find it bizarre and frustrating that to many Cavafy is significant as one of the first openly gay poets.
In fact I would say that the passage of time both in the historical and personal sense is his main theme.Certainly one of the best collection of poems I've read in a while.
I've read other translations of Cavafy, most recently the newer one by Daniel Mendelsohn and that of Aliki Barnstone, published in 2006.
Another pleasure here is that for the first time in reading Cavafy the voice of the poems plus the subject matter of the classical themes made me think of H.
But Cavafy's love poetry is more delicate than most.
It's most often about love experienced as lost and regretted and requires a sensitivity and sensuousness that Dalven seems more more in touch with than Mendelsohn or Barnstone.
To me these poems seem so modern. They are free verse for the most part and with a tone that would not be out of place in the 21st Century. It is obvious Cavafy is very knowledgeable about Ancient History, although fascinating I frequently became confused by the political intrigues of dead statesmen. What will stay with me are the later poems such as Morning Sea and One Night.
The memories and the feelings of our own days weep.*And, Memory, bring back to me tonight all that you can,of this love of mine, all that you can. *there are pains that will not stay quiet in the heart.They thirst to get out and give vent to grieving.
I have been reading Daniel Mendelsohn's translations of Cavafy: Collected Poems and Unfinished Poems.
Mendelsohn performs some magic here though.First and foremost, both books are filled with copious notes providing context, details, and other trivia that illuminate the poems and are, frankly, interesting reading in themselves.
His introduction to the Collected Poems states clearly his methodology and discusses important themes in Cavafy's work, which center around two ideas: history and sensuality.
(None nearly as good as Cavafy's.) Mendelsohn's translations have brought to the fore an affection for Cavafy's historical poems that I had found interesting but not inspiring before.
أكثر ما لفت نظري في هذه الأشعار هو قيامها برسم - أو في الواقع بإعادة إحياء - لحظة إنسانية ربما تكون عادية أو مبتذلة وإعطاءها شحنة انفعالية قوية وذلك بربطها بذكرى معينة أو بمكان قريب للقلبهناك أيضا فكرة الزمن وتأثيره على الأشخاص, وكيف أن الإنفصال بين شخصين يمكن اعتباره أداة عمل فني يستخدمها الزمن ليثبتهما عند لحظة الشباب والجمال بحيث يتذكر كل منهما الآخر وهو في أجمل وأروع صورةهناك القصائد "التاريخية" التي يتركز أغلبها حول فترة معينة ما بين القرن الثالث قبل الميلاد والرابع الميلادي, وهي فترة الحضارة الهللنستية ما بين اليونان والعصر البطلمي ثم البيزنطي في اليونان وروما والإسكندرية وانطاكية بسوريا.
This new and acclaimed translation of the 20th century Greek poet, C.P. Cavafy, by Daniel Mendelsohn is one I’ve long wanted to read.
The only Cavafy poem I have read previously is “Ithaca,” and I’ve looked forward to reading more, so my finding this book unexpectedly at the public library was felicitous.I like Cavafy’s classical allusions and his introspection, his invitation to examine one’s life just where one is, in this moment.
His poems invite one to see beyond the surface of classical Greek myth to its relevance and universality in one’s personal experience.
And how can one not read his "Exiles" and not sigh?Cavafy was a Greek living in Alexandria at turn of the last century--- one of the last generations of Greeks in what had been a Greek city at the center of the Hellenistic world.
His "Waiting for the Barbarians" has become a classic political poem in these later days of empire here, and its final line, that the barbarians' coming was "a kind of solution" is a perfect comment on cultural exhaustion.The translation here was done at Princeton in the early 1970s, and is spare and lean and elegantly austere--- better than the older Mavrogordato translation Durrell used.I've had copies of this book since I was eighteen; I plan to have it with me lifelong.
The writing style is deceptively simple, the subject matter universal and timeless, the voice authoritative and likable as Sappho's.
These are poems that crackle with illicit sexuality and yet, simultaneously, steamroll you with their moral strength and stoicism.
Amazing how a single individual, Cavafy, could encompass in a slim book of short poems the enormous thumping heart of the tradition of Sappho, of Asclepiades, and of Strato.
Less rancorous and bile-driven than Catullus, less disturbingly neurotic than Propertius, yet no less intense than either of these, in whose tradition of world-class love poetry he participates.
I read this piecemeal, skipping around. I know some of the historical and classical references but not all; I'm glad there are such extensive notes. Some poems were gorgeous but others made no sense. I liked best and will always remember "Candles" and "Ithaka."
Be kind to yourself, read Cavafy. So much pales in comparison. I'm not equal to one who's able to review his poems, so will leave this link to an archivehttp://www.cavafy.com/poems/list.asp?...
http://www.arabfact.com/%D8%B9%D9%86-...
Maravillosa edición bilingüe que se disfruta con los sentidos y no solo por el contenido.
Mi sento un po' poeta.Sei stelle vorrei dargli.
http://cavafy.com/poems/list.asp?cat=1
With poetry, I like to dive right in and read poems at random from the beginning, middle, and end of the book.
This gives me a sense of the poet's themes, motifs, style, and a view of their development as an artist (typically a book of complete poetry is assembled chronologically).
(I always imagine that, in the same way Chaucer and Shakespeare loom over modern English poets, Homer and Pindar must loom over modern Greek ones.) His style is clear, forthright, and barbed with longing.
Los segundos son la promesa de algo, en la que se encuentra ese mismo camino que transitan aquellos más afortunados, mientras que los primeros forman un grupo acabado, lleno de figuras que se repiten, como su apelación a la antigüedad, a sus figuras, tan reconocible en su obra.Poeta simbolista muy influido por la poesía francesa de aquel periodo, hay una frase del propio Cavafis que encabeza este Poesía completa y que no puede ser más reveladora: Deseo mirar más que decir.
3,5/5
Cavafy — “Eyes Awry” — Poet of a different perspective of Greco-Roman myths and history In Marjorie Garber’s brilliant “Shakespeare After All” (2008), I was alerted to the idea of “eyed awry”.
This awry perspective on Greco-Roman myth and history can lead to powerful insights.
Often with a direct, plain-speaking, yet surprising “eyed awry” perspective, Cavafy’s early poems (1905 -1915) are simply cut diamonds, sparkling a direct fire to ancient myths, persons, events, and scenes.
A segment of poems may be called “general themes of life and work”, without any explicit reference to myth, history nor a particular moment in observation or reflection.
تحتاج في كثير من القصائد أن تكون قارئ جيد لهذه الفترة التي يتحدث عنها الشاعر لتستطيع أن تتواصل ذهنياً مع هذه الحقبة؛ ليكون لديك المقدرة حينها أن تستقبل الجانب الشعوري، وفي غيرها من القصائد لا تحتاج سوي أن تترك خيالك للشاعر، فيكفيك وصف المشهد لتخرج في النهاية بفلسفة الشاعر تجاه المادة المطروحة.إن كتابة التاريخ عند قسطنطين ليست ذكر أحداث ووصف وقائع، بل تعدت المسألة إلي ذكر فلسفته وآرأئه، مع العلم أن المؤرخ حينما يكتب عن فترة ما لا يجب أن يتعدي المنطقة الحيادية التي يجب أن يقف عندها في كتابته للتاريخ، فتَخطِي هذه المرحلة يجعل من التاريخ عرضة للأهواء، ولكن هذه المدرسة في كتابة التاريخ لا تصلح مع الشعر؛ لإننا حينها سوف نهدم إحد أركان الشعر وهي الشعورية.بشكل عام؛ أجد أن جمال شعر قسطنطين كفافيس يكمن في كونه شعر التجربة الشعورية وليس شعر التجربة الذهنية.
I simply love how the narrator alters his statement in the second stanza to the phrase "I didn't find them any more".
It's as if the narrator himself is struggling with choosing the right words to commemorate his past loves and comes up with the cryptic "I didn't find them any more", which is much more haunting language than "I never found them again", which seems simple, yes, but also prose-like in comparison.
Well, the revised translation of Cavafy's poems are full of these prose-like (and in many cases, wordy) updates to the original translations.
