https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28686840-holding-up-the-universe

No, the bigger problem is that this book actually isn't about bullying, or fat-shaming, or living with mental illness, it's about high school love.
His hot, evil girlfriend constantly fat-shames and bullies Libby, obviously, because we all know pretty popular girls are mean, shallow and have no feelings.Also - and this is way more offensive to me than the blurb was - Libby's journey to self-love seems to entirely revolve around finding a guy who will actually like her.
I remember feeling at one point like the book should be coming to an end, and yet there were almost another hundred pages to go.
05/05/2016: WE HAVE A COVER <3!!!!UPDATE:My reaction to everyone saying this book is offensive.... At first I wasn't going to say anything but then the comments and review updates on here and Twitter started to really hit a nerve with me. So HERE WE GO.  To everyone saying that this book/synopsis is offensive, how about we stop and take a moment to consider the fact that A) Maybe she didn't write the synopsis B) Maybe it's how the character feels about herself C) Maybe, just maybe this is som
05/05/2016: WE HAVE A COVER <3!!!!UPDATE:My reaction to everyone saying this book is offensive....
To everyone saying that this book/synopsis is offensive, how about we stop and take a moment to consider the fact that A) Maybe she didn't write the synopsis B) Maybe it's how the character feels about herself C) Maybe, just maybe this is someone's story who wants to share it with everyone or D) ALL OF THE ABOVE.
Everyone is so quick to point and blame Jennifer Niven for being offensive, for romanizing mental illness, for not "understanding" fatness.
THIS IS HOW THE CHARACTER FEELS!!
Welcome to the internet in the year 2016. Where a simple book blurb broke the internet for a few days. A teenage girl who was rescued from her house because her weight kept her a prisoner. Then through in a statement about how she is returning to high school aka..the real world after being homeschooled.  I KNOW!! Let's all run and one star and bash the book. Not. And all you guys thought I was the biggest bully on here didn't you? Because I had (for once) stopped to think about what the book mea
Then through in a statement about how she is returning to high school aka..the real world after being homeschooled.
Hell no.This book is something that if I had it in high-school I would have highlighted ever stinking line of it.
It would have became my Shelby bible of how to deal with all the assholes that dwell in high-school.
He gets her help.Then comes to the point in the story where she is going back to school.
I've never gotten a blow job from a fat girl.".Jack Masselin: This kid hides the fact that he recognizes no one's face.
This is not a boy rescue the fat girl story.
You know I don't care what anyone thinks, I just loved the hell out of this book!
Even when she was low and things hurt her, she had courage like no one I know.
And let me tell you, there is one part where Libby stands up to the whole school in such a way that I cried my eyes out.
Libby makes me feel good for so many reasons and that's enough for me.
It does have a lot of good reviews but now I don't care what people think, I read what I want and I'm glad.
Tendrá que probar muchas veces que es mucho más que su peso.Jack desde hace años sufre una terrible condición que lo obliga a estar todo el tiempo en alerta y a tener por amigos y novia a las personas menos indicadas.
Libby siendo aún una adolescente te puede enseñar unas cuantas reglas para aplicar en tu vida y Jack es el mejor ejemplo.✨✨✨The story is told from the points of view of Libby and Jack.Libby several years ago and being a little girl suffered a very great loss in her life, which led her to eat to fill the emptiness of her heart.
TIME FOR THE ROAST  I read All the Bright Places last year and ended up dnfing it because I had huge problems with basically every aspect of it. I’m actually really proud of myself for finishing this even though I did skim read the last 25% of it. Honestly, when this book first came out I saw the authors name and instantly avoided this book. However, after seeing a lot of people give it 5 stars – despite all of the problematic aspects I had seen – I decided to pick this book up for the roast.H
In case you forgot I don’t think you could possibly forget because she mentions it every single sentence, Libby was once the World’s Fattest Teen and she’s still obese but she has lost a bit of weight.
Jack was just a straight up annoying douche and the only thing I liked about this entire book is that he told his little brother that it’s okay if he takes a purse to school because he can do whatever he wants.
I loved the messages of self-worth and I loooved how everything tied together.Brief List Of Other Things I Loved:• There are Supernatural references.
I don't have prosopagnosia, but I struggle to recognise people's faces to a mild degree and I fail at reading emotions on faces completely -- so just the fact that Jack could walk into a room of people and have NO IDEA WHO THEY WERE OR WHAT THEY THOUGHT OF HIM was so relatable AND IT NEARLY MADE ME CRY.Libby...I struggled with a lot.
Jack and Libby just DANCE and it is the most simply beautiful thing of ever.
4 stars!  Holding Up the Universe was an interesting and moving read with complex characters and a unique storyline. I listened the the audio version of this book and once I hit play, I didn’t want to stop. When I read All the Bright Places earlier this year, I had the same feeling of being hooked. I’m happy to report the author was able to pull this off not once, but twice. Our story centers around Libby Strout and Jack Masselin. Libby is formally ‘America’s Fattest Teen’. She’s spent a lot of
Our story centers around Libby Strout and Jack Masselin.
Libby is a fantastic character.
She has a great relationship with her dad and meets some good friends throughout this journey for her.
She also meets Jack Masselin in a very unconventional way.
Libby is the only one who knows about this and is able to help him.
It's just the way Libby is.
Jack won me over early on, just knowing he was rooting for Libby from the very start warmed my heart.
Even though there were some hard to read moments, the story, overall, was a positive one.
Initial review!I'm sure a lot of you will remember the ton of backlash this book received when the blurb was revealed.
I mean, let's not get into that aspect of people having the audacity to judge and write-off a book when they haven't read a single page of it.
Fat-shaming that the main character has to deal with, i.e. the bullying she goes through, because of her weight.
I don't understand how it was even assumed that the author was ridiculing people who deal with weight and mental-health problems.
A book that those who feel that can relate to Libby, can find strength in.
Edit: Looks like they updated the synopsis. ====I hope this book is less offensive than the synopsis.
“I know what you’re thinking- if you hate it so much and it’s such a burden, just lose the weight, and then that job will go away.
What the book is: ✔ A contemporary romantic novel so yes, it could be cheesy with several cheesy romantic declarations a girl wouldn’t normally hear from a guy [Now if you don’t like this stuff, then it’s probably not for you.
What the book is not: ✖ It's not about a fat girl whose life changes because of a cool guy.
I don't usually rate before reading but I am doing it here.
If others who haven't read it can give it a 1 based on a synopsis, then I feel free to rate it a 5/5 before reading.I have a few questions:1.
Why are people getting annoyed and commenting that a 'skinny' author shouldn't be writing about a 'fat' person?!?
Are we saying that authors should only write about what they are?
No more white authors writing about anything other than a white character then.
2. The human race thing...
rejoining the human race is just a quirky way of putting it.
It’s confusing, and may I say, NOT DESCRIBED WELL•	Also did you know, We Have Always Lived in the Castle is the newest addition to my tbr.•	It makes me effing happy to see characters talking about books and referencing books•	LIKE HECK YEAH, WE’RE BOOK LOVERS WE NEED PEOPLE WHO LOVE BOOKS IN OUR BOOKS•	Libby Strout gives me self-esteem goals.•	And Libby’s dad is THE BEST “You realize you’ve just asked me if you can skip school and borrow money in the same conversation?
Really enjoyable read from Jennifer. It touched your feels completely differently way compared to All the bright places.I really enjoyed the characters in this book, completely filled with diversity.This is an important lesson to teens, be tolerable and don't follow the crowds.
i received an advance copy of this book from the author.let me begin by saying i wrote my first review of this book nearly 6 months ago. i have been anticipating this book since i finished all the bright places in march of last year. i have been waiting for this copy to show up on my front porch, eagerly, for a month. atbp was one of my favorite reads of last year and the book that got me into reading, the book that fills the first posts of my bookstagram account.so my expectations were high.&am
i hope, in a couple of years, to be reading her next!---ORIGINAL JANUARY REVIEW---can everyone please take a chill pill in regards to this book?
i understand that many people were offended by all the bright places (although not nearly as many as the number of people who loved it).but cheese and crackers, people, for a community that reads so much it's kind of bananas how none of you are considering reading the description as a (potentially misguided) attempt at young adult language!the "lifted out of her house by a crane"/other uses of fat as an insult: like i said, probably misguided.
There are many things that irritate me about this book, but irritate is a strong word compared to how I feel, because honestly, I just feel so INDIFFERENT towards everything and everyone And that’s probably why this tragedy happened. If you’re looking for the problem*tic aspects of this book, idk it didn’t really find it to be offensive. - Personally, I LOVED all the bright places, like it killed me with the ending and I felt so sad inside but I also loved it - But this book was kinda a let down
Like I just swallowed the sun and it’s shooting out of every pore.”-	And the main character literally said, I am going to sex the rest of this weight right off me.”-	And I was like whoa ho ho buddy, you might wanna take it a little easy there-	Oh and….breakups as plot devices :’) I :) just :) love :) when :) that :) happens :)-	I mean its kinda predictable in that regard-	OH.-	AND LOVE FRICKEN SAVES ALL THAT’S NOT HOW THE WORLD WORKS-	Its just-	The book is so unmemorable, that’s really all I have to say about this-	I strongly believe in 3 hours, im going to forget this book ever happened Anyways, some people liked it, so just keep that in mind2 stars??This was a forced 
So many really popular reviewers--that have thousands of people following them--have written such terrible things about how "offensive" the synopsis sounds and how this book was ever even written by a "skinny person." First of all, what do you know about Jennifer Niven?
That's why you can't even say that.Second, if you reviewers don't realize that YOU YOURSELF, yes YOU are being just as "OFFENSIVE" towards the author and the book by writing the things you wrote, then I don't know what else to say other than this: you are ignorant and so prejudiced that you are letting a paragraph of a synopsis letting you write those things.
You are just as offensive, because you are saying terrible things about the author and an un-published book because of your bias.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars “Remember this: YOU ARE WANTED. Big, small, short, pretty, plain, friendly, shy. Don’t let anyone tell you otherwise, not even yourself.Especially not yourself.” So this is the super offensive book that no one wanted to read due to a reference in the blurb about how the main character was so fat she had to be removed from her house with a crane. Have none of y’all ever seen My 600 Pound Life???? This wasn’t “fat shaming,” it
So this is the super offensive book that no one wanted to read due to a reference in the blurb about how the main character was so fat she had to be removed from her house with a crane.
Not only Libby, but also Libby’s (actually present, which hardly ever happens in YA books) dad, as well as Jack (and everything you never would have known about the disorder prosopagnosia), while you discover sometimes young adult authors write characters who aren’t all white – shocking, I know, and also little brothers like Dusty who decided to start carrying a purse over the summer and believes 
I was sooooo in the mood for a "All in the Bright Places" repeat-type-experience---that the disappointment that I wasn't going to have my desire filled, only added to my already blue mood I've been in this week.
when Jack told us he was not a shitty person on the first page......but then, soon, I was bored and didn't care very much about this entire story or the characters.
I even found the writing irritatingbecause I got really tired of the characters talking to THEMSELVES ....( on every page - many times on every page).
We know that by the type-font change.I'm the last person who should criticize ANYBODY'S writing...
--- which is why I DONT WRITE BOOKS!!!!!
Disappointment and I have become very acquainted over these past few months and I’d just like it to go away for one second so I can go back to blindly loving books again!! I’ve been wanting to read Holding Up the Universe since forever, despite all the pROblemATIc !!! things I heard about it. I thought it genuinely would be a good book and instead… yikes.  CHARACTERS  - The main problem with this book is that the characters are developed SOLELY by the things that makes them “different”. Libby is
Despite being in the characters’ heads.- Basically, it seems like what the author did was add “issues” to the characters and expect them to be fully developed without having to do any actual work herself.
Yeah, I don’t think I’ve heard of that creative writing course??DANCE REP// now I’m just being really picky (also sorry for the really abrupt increase in saltiness, I wrote this part while I was reading the book)- If you’re going to include dance in a story, make sure you get the terms right.
I'm between 3.5 and 4 stars on this one.Don't go into reading Jennifer Niven's new novel,  Holding Up the Universe , thinking this is going to be identical to the phenomenal  All the Bright Places  (which made my list of the best books I read last year), in tone or the emotional power of its subject matter. I don't say this to denigrate Niven's new book in any way—I think with this book she set out to tell a different and more personal story, yet one with slightly more universal themes."You know
I don't say this to denigrate Niven's new book in any way—I think with this book she set out to tell a different and more personal story, yet one with slightly more universal themes."You know how it's easy to believe everything is about you, especially when something goes wrong?
Now 302 pounds lighter, she's ready to go back to high school and be someone different, someone with tremendous possibilities, new friends, maybe even someone that a guy could fall in love with.When Libby meets Jack Masselin for the first time, it's an encounter that winds up with both of them getting detention, having to go to counseling, and participate in community service for their school.
I think many readers didn't like how often weight is brought up in a conversation or how Libby never managed to escape her own, whether at school, in public or with Jack.
It's something you have to accept and start being comfortable with if possible, because there will always be times when you'll wish you could wear that top or for that guy over there to look at you.So you have to kind of be like, YOU KNOW WHAT, I FEEL PRETTY SO SHUT UP.
Plus it does somewhat feel like this is Libby's book.
Without Jack, some things would be bleak, but there still would be a story.
we ALL know overweight people can often be picked on for their size, and if anything the author could just be showing how highschoolers can be horrible and judgemental, and the protagonist is beat down by it, but gets back up and goes back to face old tormentors.
which i think is a great way to tell people who deal with bullying that IT CAN GET BETTER, it may take time, but it can happen if you get the right help and are supported.
and i think Jennifer is showing that by mentioning that this girl was bullied because of her body.
So glad that the fifteen year old me didn't read this then I would've been all like "oh I'm fat but my life won't get better until I find a hot guy lol". I see no point in the whole story.
***Actual Rating: 3.5/5 Jabby Stars***   ”I want you to know I’m rooting for you.”  It’s interesting that how little time(1~2 days) I spent devouring 84% of the book but I had a hard time(3 days) swallowing the last 16%. Although it’s not entirely a negative sign, it’s indeed something worth discussing about for me.Libby Strout is a girl who never stopped eating for 3 years after her mother died accidentally when she was 10 and she got the reputation of “America’s Fattest Teen” before she was c
By the way, that’s why I chose ”I want you to know I’m rooting for you.” to be my most favorite slogan for the book!Therefore, their romance here is probably the purest type I’ve ever seen and I honestly like it.
The fact that Jack was the only person who knows what happened to his brain and that he can’t tell who is who when too many faces are flashing before his eyes until he told Libby doesn’t make much sense to me.
Besides, there’s a part I absolutely love and it’s when Libby leaves her favorite book, We Have Always Lived in the Castle, on a bench in the park for someone—anyone—to pick it up.
Love, a fellow reader”  This book shocked me with how much I enjoyed it!
The two become connected after Jack does something he regrets, and a friendship begins.
You're not the only one.”  I really enjoyed this book, way more than I thought I would.
But I was intrigued by this book and I liked Niven's writing style so I wanted to give it a shot.
Jack himself was one thing I didn't love about this book.
I always love when an author has a book I didn't connect with has the ability to write something different, it shows variety in her writing style.
Hey fam! Here's my review -> https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rLELO...
From the description, it sounded like All the Bright Places meets Bone Gap -- which sign me the fuck up!But in practice, I couldn't get past the first 10%. It seemed like Jennifer Niven spent the whole time trying to convince me these characters were interesting, rather than them actually being interesting. It wasn't that the story was bad, it's just that--after reading All the Bright Places--I have such high regard of Jennifer Niven that I didn't want this to ruin it.Think I'll try Velva Jean Learns to Drive instead.
3.5 stars / Audiobook / Enjoyable Narrators I think I need to refrain from reading / listening to YA novels for a little while so with that being said I am not going to review this one.
(I mean, I've been left completely gutted by Courtney Summers and Lauren Oliver's narratives before, but in ways that made me feel like I identified with the weight of the character's struggles and situations, and to me, the characters they crafted were dimensional, well-thought out, and kept me reading to see what would become of the characters.I think the problem I have with Niven's narrative here (and I had this same problem with "All the Bright Places") is that her characters are too singular in dimension to me, and the problems expounded upon are things that not only lack a certain connectivity despite being well researched and getting some things right in terms of the emotional roughness, but it doesn't feel REAL.
