https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77368.Spindle_s_End
Spindle's End (a retelling of Sleeping Beauty) is odd in a lot of respects, and therefore a lot of people aren't going to like it.
There is very little in the way of dialogue, even when it comes to things that most other authors would have left for characters to say.2.
Even by regular fantasy novel standards, a lot of this comes out of left field.
The narration that makes it so odd is engaging enough to make up for the fact that you can go for pages without a character saying something.
Like the description of the great iron gates Narl makes, the flowers and the land and the animals and the vitality of life running through them all -- Thomas's 'force that through the green fuse drives the flower' -- are all intertwined and related to each other, and the book is also a kind of meditation on kinds of power, and the uses of power.The one thing about the worldbuilding that did put me off to some extent was the magic -- not the endless detailing of the rules in the AU McKinley set up, which felt like it was meant to be charming but was actually tedious in the very beginning (the fish jokes got annoying as the book went on), but more how the big magical moments worked.
This could have been an interesting retelling of Sleeping Beauty.
McKinley had some good ideas, but the plot rambled along at such a boring pace that it's hard to remember what they were.
Long-winded and useless descriptions of every mundane thing you can imagine were a huge part of what bogged the book down.
I think if it had been chopped down to 150 or 200 pages, it would have made a pretty decent story.
At 400 plus pages?
P.S. Was Narl really the best name she could come up with for the guy?
Narl?!
Spindle's End is a re-telling of the Sleeping Beauty fairytale.
I love many of McKinley's other "re-telling" stories, like Beauty and The Outlaws of Sherwood.
The description of life in the little community where Rose (Sleeping Beauty) grows up is so idyllic that you want the book to keep going just so you can read about the town.Unfortunately, the last quarter almost does the book in.
The magic in the last quarter of the book, surrounding the climax, is thick and plentiful.
Robin McKinley's young reader retelling of the Sleeping Beauty story, Spindle's End, smells good.
I didn't love Spindle's End. I did grow to love some of the characters: the young and heroically responsible Katriona, the quiet and supposedly-mysterious-but-really-rather-transparent and reliable Narl, the beautifully kind and sweet Peony, and the everything-that-she-shouldn't-be Princess, Rosie.
But it often felt like it was a chore reading to the book's end, rather than a pleasure.Part of this had to do with McKinley's treatment of magic.
In McKinley's magical world, Rosie had a whim that the gargoyle spindle end would be important and--wow--it was!
But I do.McKinley, thank goodness, does rehash the Sleeping Beauty story so that it has stronger female characters.
Those who have struggled with McKinley's writing style and penchant for tangents in the past will probably not get on with this book, but for the most part, I really enjoyed it. It's slow -- as most of her books are -- and occasionally convoluted -- as most of her books are -- but it felt... homey. Cozy.Full review (maybe) to come.
and she's clearly engaged in taking apart the fairy tale to take a close look, something that always gets my vote.unfortunately, it doesn't last.
but Katriona's issues fade into Rosie's issues, and okay Rosie is a headstrong character that damn well ought to work (in this day and age), so i found that promising too.
the whole thing's really too bad.and now i feel like reading another McKillip fairy tale, small and perfect and strange (The Changeling Sea was wonderful).
A fun, greatly expanded retelling of Sleeping Beauty, with Briar Rose going against stereotype by being a strapping young woman with a love for animals and the outdoors, and no regard for her beautiful blonde hair.
I really enjoyed the story until the confrontation with the evil fairy Pernicia.
Then Robin pulls her familiar trick of a foggy vague battle and some unexplained magic to get us through to the end.
I, though, choose to dock her a star off my rating for it, and to continue to maintain that The Blue Sword and Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast are Robin's best books.
I have no idea how to review this book.
I started out enthralled with it and Robin McKinley’s beautiful writing.
My progress got slower and slower till I finally stopped at chapter 21, nearly at the end.
I feel awful not finishing it but it just lost allll interest in this book.
I feel like it’s at a more rambling, sleepy pace than it was at the beginning and the characters it focuses on now are much less interesting (to me) than the ones at the beginning.
#Did not finish because I’m too busy right now to be reading books I don’t absolutely love.
I actually skipped parts, and the darn thing was only 300 or so pages long.McKinley is a good writer; she produces gorgeous and very funny prose, she's a master worldbuilder, and she creates believable characters and complex plots.
In Coraline, the titular character is not, when you stop to think about it, a super dynamic or complex character, but she's believable and likable and as a result we're rooting for her every moment.
By giving us a long middle in which there's only occasional danger, McKinley put the onus of interest on her characters, and thus fails.I also have found that I generally dislike stories with friendly animal helpers.
Very good variant of Rumpelstiltskin, in which a fairy accidentally absconds with the princess after she's cursed. The princess is raised with no idea who she really is. I stayed up too late reading this one. :)
There was much I liked about this book, and much I was frustrated with.
But this one was tricky, full of rogue magic that changed things willy nilly and was hard to control, characters that likewise changed prominence back and forth throughout the story, endless animal names without helpful reference points (how I am supposed to remember which was a dog, fox, cat, horse, owl, whatever?), and sentences that wander all over the place without necessarily coming back to the point it started out with.
While Beauty was the first book I read by her (and the first book I reread until the spine wore out), and her Damar books hold a special fascination for me, there is something about Spindle's End that keeps me coming back.Maybe that's because Mckinley is more open with the workings of magic in this world; in other books magic is a furtive, secretive thing, like a wild animal.
The author manages to create a delightful, suspend-disbelief magical kingdom and populates the story with fully rounded characters who are both entertaining and engage the reader's sympathies, along with a plot line that departs from fairy tale formula just enough to keep us guessing the outcome clear to the end.
From the first page description of a land so full of magic that teakettles need to be routinely 'de-magicked' by local fairies to keep them from pouring out pansies or toads, the readers interest is caught and held to the end of the book.
I can't even describe how absolutely gorgeous the world-building and magic system in Spindle's End is.
But the writing and details of everything are SO PERFECT that I could read a textbook just on this world, with absolutely no plot, and still enjoy it.
I marked it a down .25 of a star because the writing sometimes (rarely, but still) is SO detailed and dense that I got slightly confused with what was being said/what was happening.
Overall the writing is awesome and the characters are awesome and EVERYTHING IS AWESOME.Final recap: read this book.
I can't believe I've not read this since I started using Goodreads!I love this book, it's such a beautiful, gentle story, McKinley at her best.
The plot is obviously based around the Sleeping Beauty fairy story, but really, it only starts like it (fairy curses princess to prick her finger on a spindle and die on her 21st birthday).
McKinley writes a tale of a no-nonsense girl, Rosie who grows up in a small village, the guardian of two fairies, not knowing that she is the princess.
A warm, fluffy blanket of a book in which the tiny bit of conflict seems almost superfluous. The only surprise was how relentlessly heterosexual it managed to be despite a climax that involves two women kissing each other.
That took ages to read. It wasn't terrible, it just could have been so much better. It was dense with words upon words and I thought I would never be done with it. It was just what I needed for a while: a nice, slow book to read in my spare moments, but by the end I was sick of it. So, 2.5 stars.
Saving the world by talking to animals and with the power of female friendship <3

This is total comfort reading for me. Like being wrapped in a big fluffy blanket of fairy tales. Fairy tale retellings are the best. All the romance and fantasy with much less of the sexism.The magic in this book is a little woojy, and maybe that was McKinley's intention, but it makes it hard for me to visualize the scenes that are mostly about magic. The setting the rest of the time is wonderful and easy to picture.Evil contains the seeds of its own destruction. Family is less about blood than about love. Fish don't exist.
This book is an adaptation of the Sleeping Beauty legend. Imagine what would happen to a real girl if she were "blessed" with all of the gifts the fairies could imagine for her, and her gifts actually scared her? It was definitely an intriguing take on the story. As with all stories by McKinley, it made me think.
Я ожидала, конечно, шо-то необычное в конце, НО ЧТОБ ТАК!
Robin McKinley was one of my favorite childhood authors, so I felt like it was time to read some of her novels that I haven't read.
Here's the thing about Robin McKinley, her books are either amazing ("Sunshine", "Hero and the Crown", "Beauty") or quite frankly just suck.
Unfortunately, this book falls into the latter.Spindle's End is a retelling of the story of "Sleeping Beauty" and by retelling I mean like borderline plagiarizing (think Melania & Michelle Obama's speeches).
The only thing is, the story really doesn't take off.
Everything basically stays the same with absolutely no action.
Why not just unwish the death sentence or something?) Maybe I missed something there...Then I'd knock off half a star because it wasn't really explained how a kiss could break the curse (and also even though a lot of friends kiss on the lips I'm always cringing in the corner when they do that) and I'd knock half a star for Rosie's love interest, either because I'm grumpy or because I'd have preferred her catching up lost time with her mother.But such is life, and books, and I would recommend this book to anyone looking for a female-centric story of various different women, who care deeply for each other, and who show it.
I loved the tongue-in-cheek element to some of the details, like the way the fairy godmothers' gifts went awry, and absent-minded fairies getting burnt on their kettles.I did care about the characters -- especially, though slowly, Narl -- but there wasn't enough happening.
It's a bit like a bait-and-switch: I don't know how else the story could have been the way it is, but I liked Katriona and was quite happy to settle down in her POV.I do like the ending.
It's not a book I can see myself reading again because it took so long to read, and didn't grab hold of me in the way I liked.
While many teens and young adults could read and even enjoy the novel, I'm surprised that it's not in the adult fiction section of the bookstore.
Unlike my preferred Sleeping Beauty rewrites (A Kiss In Time, Wide-Awake Princess), this book sets the stage for a well-known classic.
In the other novels I mentioned, much of the book deals with the aftermath of either falling asleep or waking up from said sleep.
I spent all that time thinking to myself "How is this a retelling of Sleeping Beauty?" The last 100 pages rush through the princess pricking her finger, falling asleep, the prince waking her up, yada yada yada.
Her friend ends up being the Sleeping Beauty in the story.
Rosie is supposed to be Sleeping Beauty, but in a twist ending, it is transferred to her friend?
Which would have been fine if the story was about her friend.I did like the May-December romance between Rosie and the town's blacksmith, but why not just make a book about a tomboy named Rosie who can talk to animals and falls in love with the town's blacksmith?
Why make it a reimagining of the Sleeping Beauty story?
There are lovely, memorable passages which exist almost independent of the story, one of which I think I'll keep forever.
"What you describe is how it happens to everyone: magic does slide through you, and disappear, and come back later looking like something else.
And I'm sorry to tell you this, but where your magic lives will always be a great dark space with scraps you fumble for.
You must learn to sniff them out in the dark."At the end I'm left with the feeling of having read a lovely fairy tale, most of which was far beyond my ken.
Considering how much I loved Beauty, I was disappointed with this book. Rosie, Katriona, Aunt, Narl, Peony are all good characters, but I just couldn't get into the story. The pacing was slow, covering 21 years of Rosie's life, most of which nothing happens. Well, what happens is she grows up not knowing she is the princess and makes friends with a lot of people and animals who will be important in the climax. Even so, large chunks of the book could be cut out without the reader missing anything.
