https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49834.Wizard
It's hard to argue with a novel whose protagonists are an epileptic lesbian separatist who has chewed off her own finger and a schizophrenic who falls in love with a purple centaur who idolizes John Philip Sousa, on a quest to circumnavigate a donut-shaped mind-world in orbit around Saturn to foment a revolution among her 12 regional brains.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Sex and Buzz Bombs: "Wizard" by John Varley(Original Review, 1980-12-16)It introduces more complications into the plot of the TITAN series, and clears up some nagging items as well; ever wonder what a satellite-brain looks like?
What composers does a Titanide like?I just finished reading “Wizard” by John Varley (at the cost of getting an incomplete in Philosophy because I was supposed to be writing a paper and of not studying for my Physics test tomorrow).
“Wizard” was better than `Titan' and “The Ophuichi Hotline” (which are very good), but not as good as Varley's short stories (which are great).
Of course, with this fantastic alien landscape, there's the Titanides, the 29 times over ambisexual centaurs who like to do it every which way they can, even with humans, and killer blimps and vast and amazing adventurous locations full of glory and beauty.
The novel is rife with questions of sexuality and cultural weirdness and lesbianism and even eye-rolling wackiness of a misinterpretation of rape that could only come out of a secluded orbital community of Wiccan lesbians who shun all men but import sperm to keep their numbers, drag one of their members out of the community, and put her into Gaia.
This novel is unusual in that the majority of its main characters are women, with earth-guy Chris thrown in as the token male to be used to contrast everything with.
Thankfully, he actually realizes it in several places in the book, making me like him better for it.There’s lots of action and danger as the travelers make their way around Gaea, which kept me reading just to see what happened.
I realize that sexuality was being explored, but it really did seem to keep taking over everyone’s attention when they probably would have been better off looking for the next cliff/predator/large unfriendly body of water.
You could put it in the "humans explore vast space habitat" category, in company with things like Rendezvous with Rama and Ringworld, but I think that misses the appeal of Varley's Gaea books.
This series almost reminds me of Terry Pratchett's early SF (like the not-just-a-Ringworld-spoof Strata), though Varley's work is much darker.Volume 1, Titan, covered the initial exploration and established the setup.
and the crown jewel, the centaur-like Titanides, with their musical language and multiple sexual organs.
If you think you might be put off by lots of centaur sex, this is probably not the book for you.
Add Titanides to the list of fictional creatures I would not mind being.So I read this again recently.
Gaea tells them they have to go on an adventure and prove themselves.They encounter two characters from the last book.
With the help of the Titanides they go on a crazy adventure and...Well, reading the book to find out what will happen is a great idea.
He's richly imaginative and manages to add queer characters without blowing a huge look at me, these characters are queer I'm so progressive trumpet.So, if you want to read about centaur-like creatures with multiple genitals I suggest buying his books directly from his site.
I love all three of the books in this trilogy equally...but I think this was better than "Titan".
The first book in the trilogy changed pace from a space-opera to a fantasy/adventure book pretty suddenly, and it had to do all the work of setting the scene.
"Wizard" is a straight-up adventure/intrigue, and the scene's already set.
AND you get to find out about the Titanide's sexual makeup (that's worth reading the book right there.
VERY strange species that Varley's come up with.
Varley doesn't just do a good job with fantastic planets, he's also made some very neat characters.
My hornier, younger self might have found it all very titillating, but my older, cynical self finds it mostly quaint, tiring, and just a bit embarrassing.One of my other gripes is the unnecessary mentions of telepathy and ESP (3 total if I remember correctly), neither of which contributed to any substance to either the story or the world building, and since this book already blurs the science fiction heavily into more mythic fantasy, I felt those elements would have been best left out, but that reflects a personal bias on part.
But this is a minor quibble.At its core, this is an epic quest fantasy, and Varley is not trying to hide that fact, since Gaea explicitly creates things to be quested after, and requires heroic deeds to gain her favor.
Spoiler Alert!Wizard is the second book of the Gaea Trilogy by John Varley.Just as Titan begins in a somewhat normal universe and escalates into an absurd universe, so Wizard picks up at the same gonzo level that Titan ended at and escalates into something even more absurd.This book takes place roughly 75 years after the end of Titan and the two main characters return, Rocky Jones and Gaby Plauget.
It contains graphic descriptions of Titanide sex and alien-human sex.And finally, like Titan, it is a huge, sprawling, comic and yet deadly serious story about survival, godhood, humanity and heroism.
Cirocco is now a Wizard for Gaea, meaning she’s a troubleshooter.
The other is Robin, who comes from an ultra-radical sect of witches (in the Wiccan sense) living in a habitat on the far side of the Moon.
As they arrive, Gaea tells them that she can cure their ailments, as long as they do something heroic.
The story sets up the next and final book (Demon), and develops the characters, but the plot isn’t that interesting.
While this is often the case in long sections of many Varley books, in this one there weren’t any other really stellar bits to compensate.
Може би именно поради факта, че в средната книга на поредицата героите са по-подробно описани, „Магьосница” ми допадна повече.
Напротив – тук отново действието е изумително бързо, без да е претупано, и Джон Варли продължава да разкрива майсторски поредната мистерия на Гея, без да намалява нито за миг нивото на съспенс.Шейсет години след пристигането си капитан Чироко Джоунс се подвизава на Гея като нейна Магьосница – официален представител на богинята и най-могъщото същество в света-колело.
Сексуалният живот и социалното устройство на титанидите тук са описани много по-подробно, появяват се нови раси на Гея, а всяка нова местност е толкова различна със своята еко-система, че на моменти не успявах да побера цялата информация.
Book two of John Varley's Gaea Trilogy is interesting in contrast to the Ringworld series.
I really liked the first Ringworld book.
But, after that, Niven seemed more interested in talking about alien inter-species sex than in writing a coherent and interesting story.
I'm dissing Ringworld.
Ender's Game sucks too.) Wizard also delves into sex with aliens, but it doesn't detract from the story, much.Nor is the book simply more of the same.
Certainly good enough to make me read final book.
It's only real drawback, common to most middle installments of trilogies, is that it's really just setting things in place for the final book.
Although the first book in this trilogy is just good, the second (this book) and the third (Demon) cement this as one of the better sf trilogies around.
How would the second book, Wizard, top this?By being the story of a woman suffering from a patriarchal religious colony who suffers from debilitating seizures and a mild-mannered man who has dissociative personality disorder -- turning him into a crass brute -- and their quest to prove themselves as heroes, thus earning them the favor of Gaea and having her heal them.John Varley's imagination once again knows no bounds as he takes us on another adventure in the bizarre world of Gaea.It did take me a bit to appreciate these new characters, however.
It started off with brand new characters and the twom main character from the first book didn't make their initial appearance until almost a 1/4 of the way in.
I'm really anxious to begin the third book now.Gaea, the enclosed world that is in Saturn's orbit, has opened it doors to a select few of humans to grant them a miracle cure for what ails them.
At first I was turned off because like a few other trilogies, the main character is quite a bit different from who she was, and is now an alcoholic.
On pourrait voir dans cette histoire un récit initiatique ou une quête de salut, et ça l'est. Mais il y a aussi un complot, et une vision du sexe extra-terrestre aussi complexe que réjouissante. C'est vraiment une bonne histoire, même si certains rebondissements apparaissent assez classiques. Mais est ce du classicisme par banalité ou par référence ? Je penche pour la seconde hypothèse. Parce que bon, l'auteur n'est clairement pas un amateur, et chacun des éléments classiques me semble être un clair clin d'oeil.Cela dit, ce second tome est à mon sens un peu inférieur au premier.
Book #1 of this series ("Titan") started off pretty cool and was able to maintain a good level of interest with the reader right until the semi-cliffhanger end.Picking off some 75 years later, "Wizard" from the start is a different beast. The AI governing the Big Dumb Object starts having personality fits and unfortunately it is these which now govern the plot.The exploration has been relegated to the background. Some level of cool concepts and situation still occur, but what is now important is satisfying AI's whims.Maybe everything will be back to cool in book #3...
Read this trilogy some years ago and from notes made at the time - "in parts was OK and I liked some of the characters, and in parts completely unbelievable especially aspects of the women" which applied to the whole trilogy.
Takes 3/4 of the book before the plot really starts to get moving. Most of the beginning is a travelogue and introduction to Titanide society.
Love this series, full of mind-bending sci-fi, an intriguing main character, and unforgettable imagery. The middle book is the weakest of the three, but still good.
I preferred the first book of the series.
Marginally better than the first. But not by much. If only I read these as a teen ager and not as a thirty year old!
Not as good as Titan, but still well worth the read. I also like the way in which the protagonists are not quite so sacrosanct.
Terrific 2nd of a series. Haven't enjoyed a sci-fi book as much since The Martian.
I like the second book of the Gaea trilogy possibly the best -- things get kind of wacky in the third one, which I am going to have to find in actual book form, since for some reason only the first two are available as ebooks.
In Wizard, the best two characters from Titan, Cirocco Jones and Gaby Plauget, have been living and working for Gaea for about seventy years since the first novel, kept young by a Gaean offer of a private Fountain of Youth.
(The Titanides are even better, and more completely explained, in this second novel).
This second book in Varley’s Gaea series is a good light adventure read but I just wish he wouldn’t speculate so appallingly on future social trends; he’s just lousy at it and most such speculation was unnecessary for the story and felt purely self-indulgent.
For example: “On Earth, female facial hair was a fad which had come and gone several times in the twenty-first century.” He drops many such details in; they serve no purpose except to pull you out of the story thinking “he can’t be serious” which is sad.In many ways this series is not science fiction but closer to fantasy.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 2/5Titan, the first in the series, was largely science fiction exploration and space-pulp adventure that veered sharply into mythological satire.
Even though this is an improvement over the first in the series, I still didn't enjoy the book.
The weaknesses, however, are many: in the shift from science fiction to mythology the wonder of the first book is lost, little is added to the character and personality of Gaea or her regions, and most of the new additions and developments in the world are of the purposefully ridiculous variety (I suppose so that we know that Varley doesn't take his story too seriously himself).
All of the fire of the novel lies in that conflict; anything that happens with Chris and Robin is at best tedious, and at worst downright boring (including a 50-page lack-of-action section in the "underworld" that contains far too much pointless philosophisizing (Varley tries so earnestly to be Heinlein that he failed to realize he was not yet a good enough writer to pull that imitation off well).
What I'd really like to see is a "director's cut" of the trilogy that unites all the good parts into one novel.
Gaea is an alien that is also a planet, she has the ability to change DNA so to create any type of being, and she has a strange fondness for human cathedrals.
Robin has a disorder that causes her to go through random seizures from time to time and because of that weakness she has been working diligently to gain labra.
She cut off her own finger because she felt her little finger was a weakness.
My favorite part was when Robin and Chris attacked the God-like Gaea first curing Chris after he decided he didn't want to be cured and second for regrowing Robin's little finger that she cut off to prove her strength.
did not enjoy it as much as the first, possibly because exploring the big dumb object and facing various trials seem now much more arbitrary...introduces a few new characters, some travel, some ritual, some terrifying new enemies but nothing that truly taxes our heroines- i did mention it is 2 of 3?
years, but for the touchy-feely love/sex stuff the usual assumed demographic of 13 year-old boys, might have trouble with...and yes, i can see it being too graphic and interested in...
sex.
possibly interesting in itself.well, on to the last of the 3 Gaea books..
