https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147820.Satchmo
What shines out from each page of this book is the essential optimism and loving-heart of Louis Armstrong. I guess I should have known this from his music, but it's words that affect me more strongly. Told simply and without affect this story of Louis Armstrong's childhood and young manhood is actually Dickensian, but in his words, it's a song of love and hope.

Armstrong uses the word 'cute' a lot to describe something, so I don't think he'd mind me using the word 'cute' to describe this book.
He also uses some slang (some of which he explains) which adds to its 'period' feel.He's a generous man, very grateful to his musical forebears and those who gave him his first breaks.
It seems that what Armstrong most loved and missed about New Orleans when he was away from it (the food, the people, the music in the streets, the food, the fun, his neighborhood, oh, and the food!), are the same things N.O. exiles miss today.
I didn't want this book to end. High energy writing that's clear and full of sauce (though several times the modesty of the times allowed Armstrong to equivocate when I wanted DETAILS!), this early history brought New Orleans vividly to life for me. Satchmo's focus on the players he loved and the characters he ran with, suffused with warmth and good humor throughout, whet my appetite for some serious listening. Hear that solo on "Basin Street Blues"? Having read the book, I can now recognize the same man in the sound of that horn.
Essential. About halfway through, I had to stop and figure out who Louis' authorial voice reminded me of, and it came to me pretty quickly: Huck Finn. That says a lot. The same joy, generosity, ingenuity, humor, and respect you hear in his playing is in his words in great abundance. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to learn to cook cubie yon!
Louis Armstrong (1901-1971) on epäilemättä eräs maailman merkittävimmistä ja tunnetuimmista jazzmuusikoista.
Lyhyehkössä ja nopealukuisessa "Elämäni New Orleansissa" (Otava, 1961) -teoksessa hän muistelee värikästä nuoruuttaan ja uransa varhaisvaiheita kotikaupungissaan, jonka hän jätti lopulta 1920-luvun alussa liittyäkseen Chicagossa maineikkaan Joe "King" Oliverin johtamaan jazzyhtyeeseen.Armstrong kertoilee vaiheistaan viihdyttävään ja jutustelevaan tapaan.
Nuoruus oli köyhä ja Louis sai nuoresta pitäen tehdä monenlaisia töitä tuodakseen rahaa perheensä pöytään, etenkin kun isä oi jättänyt perheensä jo varhaisessa vaiheessa.
Louisin elämä ei ollut aina niillä kuuluisilla ruusuilla tanssimista, mutta toisaalta synkimmälläkin pilvellä saattoi olla kultareunus: esimerkiksi lastenkodissa vietetyllä ajalla oli merkittävä vaikutus musiikilliseen heräämiseen.Nuoruusvuosien tarinoissa vilahtelevat jazzin varhaisten suurnimien lisäksi pikkugangsterit, prostituoidut, parittajat, poliisit, uhkapelurit, mustasukkaiset aviomiehet ja monet muut värikkäät hahmot.
A fairly light reminiscence by a man who was apparently unfailingly cheerful. Or perhaps that was the only face he was able to present to the world when this book was written in the 1950s.
Armstrong writes: “Only one block long, James Alley is located in the crowded section of New Orleans known as “Back o’ Town.” His family was poor and when his father abandoned the family, his mother Mayann left Louis in care of his grandmother Josephine.
He saw a lot of fights and it was an exciting time until “the red-light district was closed by the Navy and the law.” He especially liked listening to Joe “King” Oliver another other famous musicians.
A wonderful memoir of the first two decades of Armstrong's life in New Orleans, ending just as he moved up to Chicago to join his boyhood idol, King Oliver.
With a great humility Louis tells his story, including growing up dirt poor and being introduced to the cornet while in a waifs home for boys after his arrest, while still in short pants, for firing a pistol in the air.
This generous memoir is pungently populated with an assortment of colorful characters -- from fellow musicians to pimps and hookers and other assorted hustlers -- even as it makes clear the loving influence of his mother and older sister.
A story only Satchmo himself could tell.
Who doesn't love Louis Armstrong and anything he writes or says?
So cool to hear his voice in your head while you read it. You like his music, you'll enjoy this quick short book. kinda ended abruptly,i had a very early edition. I assume there are better books for a complete understanding of Mr. Armstrong life, as this one ends in 1938. I think Mr Armstrong held back quite a bit, but enjoyed the read regardless
They are the hustlers, madams, pimps, working girls of the New Orleans underworld and Satchmo makes them come alive.
The story includes Satchmo's earliest musical efforts, his arrest for some gun play and time in a juvenile home which had an orchestra and where the orchestra director noticed the promising new inmate and gave him his break.
Still, its the story of his roots in New Orleans which makes for an incredibly interesting and lively read and a great time piece int a different world and its characters, long gone, but not to be forgotten.
In this autobiography, jazz icon Louis Armstrong recounts his youth growing up in 19 teens and '20s New Orleans.
More than the average celebrity autobiography, Satchmo: My Life in New Orleans offers a candid, raunchy, rollicking look at the people and places in NOLA history that have now come to embody the storied city.
If you want to know how New Orleans looked, smelled, and sounded at the dawn of the Jazz Age, it's all here, and it's told as if Louis Armstrong were sitting with you at a honkytonk and talking to you over a beer.
I cannot recommend Satchmo: My Life in New Orleans enough, especially to Jazz aficionados and history buffs.
Satchmo: My Life in New Orleans is the story of New Orleans and of the jazz.Dippermouth was also a g
I didn't know much about Louis Armstrong (except that I love his song, "What a Wonderful World." I find his raspy voice and incredible horn playing refreshingly unique.
I loved learning about Louis' early years in New Orleans and how an employee at a home for children fostered his interest and talent in playing the cornet.
I especially liked reading about how he played in the marching bands for New Orleans funerals...
such a different world!
If you're a fan of jazz music, you'll enjoy reading about Louis and the other talented musicians of his time.
This is an enjoyable read that covers the beginning of Armstrong's life. Written as if he were sitting across from you telling you a story, this autobiography is as informal and unpretentious as any I have ever read. As an added bonus, I think I learned more about the history of New Orleans from this book than from the handful of history books I have read on the topic. A pleasure to read, you can't help but like the man and wish you had heard him play live. I recommend this book to everyone.
Superb autobiography by Louis Armstrong, from his early years growing up in New Orleans up to his first musical engagement in Chicago. No varnish in this book, very much in his own words, with slang, nicknames and much time spent in a boys home (where he learned to play cornet), growing up too poor to own shoes, with much time spent earning money in the red light district of Storyville. It's a great read about a remarkable time as told by a very remarkable man. Highly recommended.
For anyone who loves Jazz, History, New Orleans, or any combination of those. From the context of historical narrative and then-versus-now, it's pretty unbelievable. Me: "That actually happened?" L.A.: "Yes. Yes it did." Me: jaw drops.
What's not to like about this book, this story, and this man? I made it a point to purchase this at the Louis Armstrong House Museum in Queens. Take the tour there, learn how he lived in and loved that neighborhood, and it will make you appreciate all of his New Orleans reminiscences all the more.
Louis Armstrong's personal tale of growing up in New Orleans. A quick read, and full of interesting tidbits!
A FANTASTIC book. I do play trumpet ad love Armstrong, and the detail and love woven into this story gives a side to Armstrong that's very like-able and funny. A must-read for any Satchmo fan.
I felt like I was sitting at a bar with Louis and he was telling me stories! Interesting read about his early years.
Love the New Orleans descriptions.
wonderful self-portrait of Louis Armstrong coming-of-age in NOLA
New Orleans currently has city-wide reading project with this book.
Apocryphal? Probably half. Beautiful? Yup. You can hear him typing. In tempo.
His personality came through clearly on the page, and (despite the inaccuracies inevitable in any memoir) he painted a vivid picture of what life was like for a young black boy growing to manhood in New Orleans in the early 20th century.
This is an entertaining and historical tale of of Louis Armstong's life from 1900 to 1922, the red light district of Storyville, and it's outlying areas, now the CBD / Downtown of New Orleans.
I especially loved descriptions of his much- loved family, New Orleans characters, his life as a poor boy, and the details of places long ago forgotten.
Louis talks a lot about food and New Orleans' traditions which are educational and interesting.
So touching, as he tells with all honesty, how he was able to turn poverty and misfortune, through love for his music and hard work, into the acquisition of his dream.
This book left me wanting more, so I'm re-reading it:)My only criticism is that the story gets off to a clunky start--it takes a few chapters for the writing to pick up momentum.
The content is pretty gritty throughout, but it feels like Louis initially tries to downplay the grittiness and make his story a little more cutesy than it needs to be.
The gritty content feels a little surprising for a book published in the mid-1950s, but it's what keeps the book interesting.
It's not a complete picture of Louis--it feels like he's maybe holding back on some painful brushes with Jim Crow laws--but it's engaging, entertaining and a great (fairly) quick read.
I had to read this for my jazz history class sophomore year in college.
This memoir really felt genuine and real.
It felt as if Louis Armstrong and I were having lunch together and he was just telling me about his youth.
One thing I greatly admire about Armstrong after reading this is he always focused the bright side of things while in his head kept a rational view of the world around him and its intricate details.
It's an entertaining story and an easy read.
I would recommend this for any jazz fans and history buffs.
