https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132539.Snowbound_Mystery
Even as a kid I remember Boxcar Children being a bit eye-rolling in terms of conflict, but I was enticed by new audio productions and decided to give this one a try. Actually it was a great experience. The audio performance was top-notch and included some fun sound effects. Although the "mystery" was hardly a nail-biter, the expert pacing kept me enthralled. I doubt I could devour these back-to-back because they are so simplistic, but it was a pleasant break from more cumbersome reading.
This sounds very mysterious to me, but what do I know, because this crime-solving quartet isn’t piqued in the least by this tidbit.That’s Gertrude for you, throwing in some interesting news about arson to distract you, then never ever mentioning it again.Meanwhile, Benny is extolling the features of this marvelous cabin in the woods that he was recently discussing with Grandfather’s good chum down at the Sportsmen’s club.Seriously.I’m starting to feel like Grandfather is feeling his age, and has wisely decided to skip over the older, slower ‘jock’ (is he a jock?
I really like this book! It’s great for younger and older kids. Not scary, but not boring either!
So far, each book has given me one new piece of information about Henry.
In Houseboat Mystery, I learned that Henry was now old enough to drive.
(She does the sewing in the first book, the laundry in Houseboat Mystery, and the interior decorating in this one.) The "mystery" in this book is pretty innocent.
The Alden children meet a nice family, the Nelsons, who seems to act a little weird, as if they're hiding something.
The Alden children talk over the Nelsons' strange behavior and do a lot of wondering.
This book is an enjoyable read, and it's fun seeing how everything falls into place.
Oh, those Alden kids, always helping people. And WHERE DID GRANDFATHER MAKE HIS MONEY!?!?!?
Just snowed here so I thought this would be a good read.
They go to a hunting cabin that is back up in the woods.It's too early for snow so the kids and Watch, their dog, go up.
They walk to the little store each day for supplies.
Thank to a squirrel family, snow and a hole in the roof the recipe is found.
I was glad that found the recipe and didn't have to leave like thought would.
Their grandpa is great and would have loved to be on my own in a cabin like that.
It is definitely a book of its time.
It's a progression from "See Spot Run".
Perhaps that's a fault for some...allow innocence and the belief of the good in others to last.It's a fine book.
It is fairly amusing and if nothing else is a fun look into children's books of yesteryear.Do I recommend it?
If you want to take the time...go for it...but I wouldn't be putting it into someone's hands unless they had an interest in the historical progression of children's books...or simply enjoyed children's books from this time.
I always love how reading the Boxcar Children lights a fire in my kids' imagination, so I liked the book for that. However, we found the story itself lacking and not best of Boxcar Children books we've read together.
This was a cute story. They mentioned the boxcar for the first time in a while.
I liked the book but it could have been better.
I liked this book because I LOVE SNOW!!!! I also liked this book because I like BLIZZARDS!!!!
As with the first book the Alden children never ceased to amaze me with their consistently positive attitudes, polite speech patterns and unflinching work ethic.
So, in the end, the children, the Nelson's and a local grocer in town benefits from the Alden's adventure.I wonder what I learned from these books as a kid, what I took from them.
I am fairly polite in my dealings with people, and I do have a good work ethic...but I'm not sure if it stems from being an introverted person never wanting to draw negative attention to herself or from an Alden induced sense of decorum.
These four siblings are known for their crazy little adventures, and this time they have decided to go live in a small hunting cabin way out in the woods for a week.
This cabin is so far out in the woods that the children have to walk two and a half miles each day, just to get to the store!
When the children mention the hunters cabin, the Nelsons turn red In their faces and little Puggsy begins to say something about hunting for "it," but then stops.
That night the sibling learned what the Nelsons were hunting for!
OK, so I have to admit that I am starting to get annoyed with how often Grandpa Alder just drops these kids off in strange places and leaves them.
So this time it is a small hunting cottage where they have to hike 2.5 miles to get to the nearest store.
There is a sign in book at the hunting lodge and the kids wonder why the shop keeper and his family are up in the cabin so frequently.
Clearly, there is a mystery.
But I'd have to say it is a mystery why the shop keeper and his family would sign the guest book every single time they stopped by.
Seattle was frustratingly devoid of seasons, at least the way the four seasons were portrayed in books and movies. I ached for winters blessed with blankets of snow. My fervent annual wish was for a white Christmas.So imagine my jealousy perusing the tale of the four boxcar children snowbound, trapped indoors with family members who actually enjoyed spending their time together playing games, piecing together puzzles, and constructing art projects.
Lilly and I just finished this book on Saturday, January 7, 2012. Here is what Lilly had to say about the book:"I like the part when the Nelsons came to their (the Alden's) house and they were stuck and they came into their house. I liked the squirrel part."I loved reading this book with Lilly, it was a perfect book for winter. We both loved reading about the children being trapped in a cabin during a blizzard where the snow reached over the windows.
Still reading my way through the Boxcar Children series thanks to Kindle Unlimited. This time the kids are snowbound in a cabin, and the mystery involves some family that runs a grocery store. As usual the kids are resourceful and friendly. A quick fun kids read. Not heavy on plot and the passage of time is somewhat wonky... how long has Henry been in college now and the girls haven't graduated high school yet? Is Benny still in elementary? There is a mention that Watch is an old dog now.
I really love how Mr. Alden trust the children enough to let them go on their own and have adventures. The idea of sending kids to spend a week in a remote cabin, with a 5 mile walk round trip just to get food is amazing to me. Yes we know Henry is in college, but to me it's still ambitious.Enjoyable mystery. The snowstorm kept it thrilling. I really liked this one.
Reading these books gives me a big dose of nostalgia. They're pretty monotonous and boring (how many meals can we witness the Alden children making?!), especially considering the kids' books being published today, but it reminds me of my childhood.
I like that Henry, Jessie, Violet, and Benny go up to a hunters cabin. I like how there are squirrels in the attic with recipe cards. I like how everyone goes nut picking and got a lot of hickory nuts.
The Alden children solve a baking mystery at a cabin while they are stuck there during a snowstorm.
This was my favorite Boxcar children book!
Good
The Boxcar Children = most read series between the ages of 6 and 9 for me. I think of these fondly. Every child should read this series.
I have books 1 12 and 13 of this series
I always wanted to be snowbound! Didn't get the chance until 18 years later. :)
X2
brr this frozen book squirrels vs dog snow and things like that is commen
Fun easy mystery book for young students to read
Picked this up at a yard sale. I have always like GCW; Boxcar Children #1 is a top comfort book. My son and I read this. Fun story.
