https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311151.The_Quiet_Gentleman
Trouble and resentment await him in the form of his imperious stepmother and his spoiled and truculent younger half-brother Martin, who were rather hoping Gervase would die in the war so that Martin could inherit.
Gervase's stepmother, the Dowager, is almost the spitting image of Lady Catherine de Bourgh from Pride and Prejudice, steamrollering everyone around her and humorous in her vanity, and I liked all of the other characters, even--in his own way--the immature and embittered Martin.
There's a heroine who isn't your typical gorgeous lady, Gervase's quiet sarcasm and strength of character grew on me, and there's a cute secondary romance that causes more heartache for the beleaguered Martin ...
I was all set to read my Arrow copy - until I took a good look at the picture.   Apparently St Erth returned from the Napoleonic Wars in 1816 & decided to dress in his late father's clothes. As Lady Caroline Bingley would say, I was all astonishment!  So I pulled out my old Pan instead.   Pretty decent shot of Gervase & Marianne, I thought.This book is a little too Austenesque & not Heyerish enough for me. Don't get me wrong I love Austen - when Jane herself writes it! For example, (
"You know, old fellow," he once told Martin,"if you had a tail, damme if you wouldn't lash it!& both romantic couples were very appealing & I liked that both Gervase & Marianne, extremely attractive themselves (view spoiler)[ chose mates on their character rather than appearance!
(hide spoiler)]Lots of wonderful secondary characters, especially the above quoted Barny Warboys & Marianne & Drusilla's parents.
But the book has (for me) two major flaws.(view spoiler)[ Gervase's interest in Marianne clearly wasn't serious.
I have to be careful when reading her novels in public.
The Quiet Gentleman is the perfect combination of mystery and romance.
And with the romance, Heyer once again succeeds in bringing together two seemingly irreconcilable individuals who turn out to be, of course, perfect for each other.
To all you fellow Austen lovers out there - if you've never read a Heyer, and my enthusiasm still hasn't convinced you to pick one up, read The Quiet Gentleman for the pure novelty factor that the hero can be named Gervase Frant and still be incredibly hot.
Ahhh. Georgette Heyer. I love you. It makes me wanna cry when the so-called big readers in my life never heard of her. I guess they are still waiting for next book from J.r.ward (*2 live crew theme music playing) to come out.
Another countryside romp in this story of succession as the disenfranchised Gervase returns from the battlefields, resigning his commission, and taking his rightful place as Earl of Stanyon.
Similar to The Unknown Ajax in the general plot line and characters, but there's an added attempted murder to jazz this one up a bit.
If the last Heyer book I read had not been The Unknown Ajax then I probably would have enjoyed this a bit more.
A couple months is not long enough between story reboots, nonetheless it was entertaining enough.
Another listen with my youngest on our commute.
We actually made a date to finish this on Sunday morning so that we wouldn't have a huge gap (she's out of school this entire week so no commute).
Which says something for how into the story we were.
I just love Gervase and his appreciation for Drusilla makes my heart go all aflutter.
Okay, that's an overstatement but still, these two are just so outstanding.That said, I had a harder time with the side family than I remember.
Still outstanding but not on par with the other adventure-laced romances (The Unknown Ajax, The Talisman Ring, The Toll-Gate, etc.).
When he comes back to take his position as the Earl of Stanyon he is met with rudeness and there is an apparent threat to his existence as attempts are made to assassinate him with the chief suspect being his step brother Martin.Lord Gervase St Erth was indeed a quiet gentleman, but not engaging enough to make the book exceptionable.
(For the record, I did have a strong feeling about the villain being the villain since the beginning of the book;);p and I was right!)Romance in the story is negligible and focus pertaining that quarter is more on Lord Ulverston and Marianne than on Lord St Erth and Drusilla.Overall, the book was just fine with me and any GH regular may want to read it for sure.
Gervase returns home one year after his father's death having inherited the title. Estranged from his father because of his mother's behavior, he has spent his adult life in the cavalry and has survived Waterloo. It's not a happy homecoming. He encounters his stepmother's (mother-in-law throughout the book) suspicion and his younger half-brother's resentment. Martin has grown up with his father's affection and indulgence and with shadowy expectations of inheriting. With the shadowI wonder if this counts as one of Heyer's mysteries?
This is a very different kind of Heyer. The hero and heroine are so atypical that I loved them all the more for it. Let’s face it, they are actually more typical of real life than the normal heroes and heroines. Being a ‘sensible’ sort myself, I’ve always had a soft spot for Drusilla – now if only I could find my ‘Gervase’!
I wish I knew what to rate this, but for the life of me I can't! Never mind, 3 1/2 Gervase Frant, comes home after years in the army. He never expected his family to greet him with open arms, but he didn't expect hostility either! The whole castle seems to be brooding over some dark secret... (Bodiam Castle) Martin his half brother plainly declares war on Gervase who he views as a usurper. Worse, Martin feels that if it hadn't been for Gervase, his lady love wouldn't have spurned him. It's just
(Bodiam Castle) Martin his half brother plainly declares war on Gervase who he views as a usurper.
Worse, Martin feels that if it hadn't been for Gervase, his lady love wouldn't have spurned him.
(it's the parents fault after all) <Theo was a kindly, sweet character from the start; he seemed to be truly concerned about the danger Gervase's life was in.
I don't feel like I really got to know her.What's different in this Heyer is that it focuses mainly of the Hero, the heroine is very much in the background.
I think The Reluctant Widow, The Unknown Ajax and Cousin Kate were better.
This book was different because I could see the Hs growing regard for the h--and sometimes this is not always noticeable in other titles.
I really enjoyed watching these two fall in love as a process and the low-key growing regard between Gervase (St Erth) and Drucilla so that the love connection didn't seem to come out of nowhere.
St Erth and Drucilla were very mature lovers without any emotional and immature displays.While this book didn't stand up to GH romances where the MCs had stronger personalities or the books had stronger storyline The Quiet Gentleman has its own unique and understated charm.
I wanted to read about the change of opinion Gervase had of Drusilla, Because at the beginning he finds her boring and unattractive; I would have liked to know when he changed his mind, what happened ect...Aaahh it's too bad, because it was a pretty good read anyways.
Maybe not the best place to start reading Heyer, as this one is more of a mystery than an actual romance (but without being classified as a mystery) and is just in general not perfectly representative of what a TRUE Heyer novel is (read "The Masqueraders" for that!).
Loved Gervase though, even if he had a weird name (like somebody pointed out: only Heyer could have a character named Gervase and still make him sound hot!).
On her worst day, Georgette Heyer is better than any other writer of Regency romance I have read.
Another of her stories that combines mystery (or at least adventure) with romance is my favorite of all her books, The Unknown Ajax, so it’s not as if it can’t be done.
The father married again and raised two more children at home.
Some of the characters, notably the chaplain, feel like stubs: they were never fully integrated into the plot.(view spoiler)[As a quibble, why on earth would anyone name the central couple of a romance Gervase and Drusilla?
Excellent Heyer romance, with a bit of mystery thrown in. Who is trying to kill Gervase Frant, Earl of St Erth? Napoleon's army couldn't do it, but are his spiteful half-brother and stepmother planning to finish the job? And will Gervase steal his brother's sweetheart, the beautiful Marianne, or fall for the less lovely but smart Drusilla? I've enjoyed almost all of Heyer's books, and this one is no exception. The excellent review at audiogirls.com inspired me to add it to my to-listen list.
He did not have a close relationship with his father, mostly because he resembles his beautiful mother who left the late Earl to be with her lover and died a few years later.
Gervase has been an army officer and only sold his commission recently, a year after his father's death.Now he has finally returned to the main family estate, Stanyon.
Other persons at Stanyon include Theo Frant, the son of the late Earl's younger brother; the Dowager Countess; and Miss Drusilla Morville.
Miss Morville is a very sensible young lady from the neighborhood staying at Stanyon while her parents tour the Lake Distrrict and who the Dowager quite depends on.
This was a very slow book to start but once it got going I enjoyed it very much.
It was populated with characters who are not easily forgotten.
Other than the odd diversion the whole story took place at Stanyon Castle.
I liked Drusilla a lot.
She was quite and steady and very sensible but eminently likable.
Marianne was a good character too.
She was very young and naive and this was her only fault if fault you could call it.Martin was a royal pain but this was more or less down to his mother.
Not in the top ten Heyers for me but a good read all the same.
In fact, the romance was pretty understated and was only developed at the end, along with the solution.
At first, I thought I disliked many of the characters, but I began to like the Earl when he showed some emotion and was sad at his brother's outburst.
I thought Drusilla dull at first, but she gets a little more interesting in the latter half of the book.
The only thing I did not like about the book (other than the slow first half) is the victim blaming of a young girl for being molested.
Still not my very favorite Heyer, but I really like Gervase and Drusilla (ok, definitely NOT my favorite hero and heroine names...), and there are several great characters and a good mystery, along with a subtle romance.2015: Second time reading this book, first time was about four years ago and I gave it four stars.
The mystery was well-done but the romance angle was rather an afterthought; I very much enjoyed watching Gervase Frant fall for (view spoiler)[the ever-sensible, delightfully dry-witted Drusilla Morville, (hide spoiler)]but it is not center stage.
I don't know how Georgette Heyer manages to send me into flutters with each new (to me) book of hers I read.
It's an interesting set of characters, and an interesting choice of romance -- Heyer really wasn't locked in to any stereotypes of romance, but picked characters that were different enough in each book to avoid too much repetition.
I love the ending, too, with Miss Morville's father arguing with the Countess!This is a quieter sort of romance than in, say, The Grand Sophy.
Characters who I came to love -- even the villain of the piece, though it doesn't help there that his motives seem a little thin.
Despite the clumsy murder thread running through this story, it's one of my favorites. It succeeds where I think A Civil Contract failed--it gives us the best of Heyer's "plain but kind" heroines, one with a decided sense of humor, who achieves romance on her own power, and without melodramatic suffering, like the supposedly "realistic" A Civil Contract. The heroine's parents are a total delight--part of the Lake Poets, having raised their daughter to be practical and republican. The characters are such fun in this story, I just kind of skim past the murder bits.
The main character evolves from an uncaring, uptight man into someone who goes out of his way to preserve the family name and the honor of his cousin, who has done nothing to deserve it. Miss Morville is an excellent character: strong, intelligent, and resourceful, yet still very much within the traditional role of women in this era.
But comparing to other GH Georgian/Regency novels I give it four stars.I was gripped by the plot practically through the whole book.
I had had my suspicions but to the end, I wasn't sure who was trying to kill Gervase.Like in all GH books there were wonderful characters (the Dowager, Martin, Teo, Marianne, Leek, Chard, Turvey, Mr Morville, Mr Warboys).
Their presence was enough to make a charming, witty, enjoyable book.The best part was the two main characters, rather plain Drusilla and pretty, dandyish Gervase.
But it was the novel perfectly written with the plot that keeps the attention of the reader.
Gervase, the Seventh Earl of St. Erth returns to his ancestral home after successfully surviving the wars much to the dismay of his ambitious step-mother and spoiled half-brother Martin.
Ger is quiet and doesn't fight back, therefore his step-mother thinks she can continue to rule the household with an iron fist and send the Earl running for one of his other properties.
He fights back with quiet dignity and a witty manner that wins Druscilla's heart as she attempts to rescue him from someone who may wish to kill him.
We definitely see Gervase come to appreciate her composure, and to no longer think her dull, though any attraction he feels for her isn't as easily detected.
She was very well done, with her worn and not even resentful resignation to being completely unattractive - she is someone who has accepted that she will never make any sort of love match, let alone to someone as handsome as Gervase, and so I am always happy when she discovers herself wrong.The narrator chose an interesting voice for Gervase (who is meant to be very quiet and amiable in his manner).
Gervase carried this book, front to back, and more than made up for its weaknesses.
I enjoyed the story as a whole.
I've noticed, though, that when Heyer turns her Regencies into thrillers, the character relationships suffer, and it was so in this.
While I enjoyed reading it, there was almost no development of the relationship between Gervase and his lady; it was just there, baldly stated, at the end, no buildup or foundation or admiration.
I did like the relationships Heyer developed and showed between Gervase and the other male characters, though--Martin, the Vicount, and Theo.
Love, love, love! Ahhh, Heyer does it again. This book was wonderful! First, see Sherwood Smith's great review. Second, I acknowledge this book probably deserves 4 stars, because the mystery is clunky and obvious, but I loved the proposal scene so I pushed it up to five stars. Miss Morville was wonderful. I love Heyer's charming, prosaic heroines. We need more of them these days! If you like Heyer's The Talisman Ring, you will like this one. I definitely need to buy this book and read it again!
My second Heyer book was a bit different because there was a big mystery in it, still it was not one of her true mystery novel.
There is romance, mystery and the stillness that is proper manners.First I was not sure about this one, mostly cos I felt Gervase was going after the wrong woman.
Lucy (not a girl, just a nick-name) was Gervase's friend and fell for the local beauty too.
But before you think everyone fell for her, I think I can spoil things and say that Gervase did not.
My 22nd Georgette HeyerGervase returns home from the war to assume his role as the Earl of St Erth to the displeasure of his step-mother and half-brother Martin.
Cousin Theo and lady Marianne get on great with him, but when strange things start to happen, it becomes clear that foul play is at hand.The book is filled with witty dialogue and humor, but there are a number of slow parts and for the life of me I could not like Martin, especially since he forced his attentions on Marianne two times and blames her for not loving him.
I've been rereading Georgette Heyer's romances lately, sandwiching them between heavier reading in order to provide myself with some light entertainment.
It's always a pleasure to rediscover an author whom I haven't read lately and to discover that I have forgotten enough to make them fresh again.
Although her books are classified as romances, they go far beyond the contemporary definition --because of the wit and humour, and the excellent writing.
This wasn't my favourite Heyer novel, but it provided the usual charm.
It was a fitting conclusion to my 2015 year of books.
I read this based on a friend's recommendation, and I'm so glad I did! The plotline flowed nicely and the characters were well-defined. The mysterious accidents kept me on my toes, and the ending left me quite happy. Gervase and Miss Morville quickly became my favorite characters, simply because they are so different - he is not afraid to take risks, while she leans on the side of a little too practical.
