https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48760.The_Birth_Order_Book
It basically tells you,no, actually it states quite clearly that you are like __________ because you are a (insert birth order here)For instance I learned some supposedly need to know things abou myself, givin I am a first born:1.
In order for my life to be successful I have to marry a middle child or lastborn, or else i will be too demanding and will end up divorcing.Haha actually the druggy was an extreme case but still...Ok, now i think im giving the wrong impression of the book.
Leman's findings are vague stereotypes, backed up by anecdotal evidence mostly from his own family.
He didn't have much more insight beyond the ideas that first borns are either stern perfectionists or overly eager to please, middle children are negotiators, and the baby of the family is a charming iconoclast.
But for evidence, he relies mostly on his own childhood and children, peppering in some examples from his practice, conversations he's had with people, Bible stories, and a few statistics.He also runs out of material about 2/3 of the way through, and starts talking about how parents should discipline their children.
As I started reading this book, I thought the concept was so interesting! That is, your personality is somewhat predetermined by whether you are an only child, first-born, middle-born, or the baby. Some of it makes sense, but then he starts explaining all these "exceptions" and you start to realize he's just fooling himself to think that all first-borns are perfectionists and babies are just social butterflies. There are just too many exceptions to really believe in any of this.
About as valid as reading your tea leaves and then shaking the cup to upset the leaves because the resulting prediction didn't fit the situation.What a waste of time this book was.BTY Dr.Leman, using famous people from the past to verify your theory that first borns are the achievers in this world doesn't work, because you have no access to their life story and thus cannot say whether they switched identities with a younger sibling and thus were really a second born.I also found one argument offensive.
Dr. Leman argued that if adopting you should treat all children in your family equally, whether they are your blood child or adopted child.
Leman does a terrific job of writing so that the concepts he presents are comprehensive, yet intellegent; without the pretention that so irritates me about many psychologists.I was amazed at how much I could fit myself, my siblings, my parents, my husband and his family and my kids into his explainations of how birth order effect our personalities.
I was even able to see some changes I should make in my marriage (although I have a fabulous relationship with my husband) because my behavior could cause problems down the line.I cannot wait to check out another book of his, Getting your Kids to Mind Without Losing yours.

My mother-in-law forced me to read this because she claimed that it would answer all my questions about my second-born.
(She herself is a second-born.) Instead, it was basically stupid and confusing.
There were more exceptions than rules to his theory.
Basically, almost anyone can be considered a firstborn.
You just have to have more than 2 or 3 years between you and your next older sibling.
Or be a different gender than your older siblings.
It was extremely unhelpful, and (apparently) intentionally vague.
There are lots of theories about birth order.
These don't seem to be very good ones.
I picked this up on a remainder table a long time ago, just started reading it.
Although it may be too much book for the material, the many funny stories about families and their quirks makes the reading go fast as we recognize ourselves and others all too easily.
We all seem to fit our birth order profiles quite well: I'm a pretty classic firstborn, with that overdeveloped sense of responsibility.
I'm probably more the compliant than the aggressive firstborn, with plenty of perfectionism and no small tendency to be judgemental in the mix.Leman's implications for hiring decisions, blended families, and general child-rearing are pretty interesting.
I read this book years ago and really enjoyed it.
I came back to it because I was hoping to gain greater insight into my children and how to parent them within their birth order but the book was not that helpful.
Really nothing on middle born children.
Most of the last born child info was all about the author's experience.
In fact, a good portion of the book was just about the author's personal experience of birth order.
I guess I was hoping for something less anecdotal and more philosophical.
Maybe a return to The Child Whisperer?
Very interesting. This book surprised me. Lots of good information and I was not expecting to much.
The author was completely accurate when explaining the firstborn child (myself and my son), the middle child (my daughter and husband), and the marriage dynamic of a middle child and firstborn (my marriage). My youngest did not fit the mold of the last born child, but I believe that has a lot to do with her being parented by an oldest and having two oldest siblings. The theory behind the birthing order is fascinating and clears up so many questions regarding family dynamics. The last few chapters were a little redundant but really an overall interesting read.
This book was so interesting, not only in regard to myself but also my children and siblings. I actually read it as research for a novel I'm writing (about sisters), but I enjoyed it a lot. Nice surprise.
A great book full of truth and humor. Very enlightening. I wish I would've read this years ago. I recommend this book to anyone with children!
If you like biased stereotypes coming from a very self-congratulatory narrator, then this book is for you.
Interesting readWalked away with some good guidelines as to why I function the way I do. A little long, but Worth the read.
A great book (should have read it 30 years ago) but very insightful. Gave me a lot to think about myself, my kids and my spouse. Would like to read some of his other books.
What a great book, you will definitely will start understanding people and their peculiar behaviors!!
Fascinating look at families and birth order and how one influences the other. Really helped me see my twins in a different, more realistic light (even though the time spent on multiple births was about a paragraph). Also helped me figure out some things about myself! Definitely had some ah-ha moments! Would recommend it to anyone.
(He was comforted only upon learning that the last born pilot was actually a functional first born.) I can see why one might find an overwhelming majority of first borns in certain professions, etc, but I don't appreciate the idea that no child can ever overcome the weaknesses of his/her birth order.
As a last born himself, he should have realized that we "babies" have a need to be respected and treated like adults (he did talk about it, but he didn't actually do it).
A friend (who is a middle child) gave me the book to help me understand my middle daughter better, so when I picked the book up, it was with the intention of learning more about Bekah.
(I just need to do what I know I should.) But I did like reading a book that helped me understand who they are better.
I liked the tips for parenting first born, middle child and last born children, but I think I'll ultimately gain more from just understanding my daughters better.I think this book can help you understand yourself, your husband and your children better.
I learned a lot about myself, my husband, parents, and siblings while reading this book.
Though my family is a weird make up his chapters on each birth order described each of my siblings to a T (Clark and I are first born personalities, Becca is and only child, and Thayne is a Middle).
I also enjoyed his chapters on parenting, as a prepare for our first baby I found a lot of ideas and insights I plan to put to use in raising my son and whatever siblings my come after him.
I actually may have to go and read his parenting book.
The Birth Order Book describes common roles and characteristics of each child in a family.
Through specific research, peoples' futures can be predicted just because of where someone stands in their family, birth order wise.
I loved The Birth Order Book!
I really connected with the book because everything about the third born child, or middle child, (which is me) was 100% accurate.
As I was reading, I compared the predictions and facts to other families and children, not just to mine.
Still, after that, I found the information to be just as accurate.
Most of Leman's claims come from personal experience as a father and counselor, not through any kind of scientific study (as can be easily inferred from the only 6 pages of endnotes for a 350 page book!) so while most of what he says makes sense, you won't be satisfied if you're looking for hard evidence to back up the claims.
The book might give you some insights into your own and your children's lives, and that coupled with the fact that it's a pretty quick read makes me say that it's worth the few hours it will take to finish.
For full disclosure, I made it through only about a third of this book.
While the author has some valuable insights as to how birth order affects personalities, it takes far too long to say far too little, and weakens his case unnecessarily.
After setting out his thesis and capturing nearly everyone in his firstborn net, the author goes on and on with exceptions to his rule.
As it turns out, it isn't much of a rule evidently.
It's an interesting subject, and I would say the majority of the author's generalizations fit people I know, though there are definite exceptions.
He covers a lot of different family sizes and orders, but fails to address what happens with three kids and the middle is a different gender (my situation)--once again neglecting us poor, neglected middle kids.
Ah well.His writing is entertaining, making this a swift read and preferable to a lot of other (and drier) psychological works.
Once I got over the fact that this wasn't a book full of statistically proven facts about birth order, I enjoyed it for what it was; a psychologist's observations about personality tendencies and pitfalls.
I couldn't tell that the personality types were any different from Meyers Briggs or True Colors, but there was some solid advice on identifying those personalities in your self, spouse, and children and maximizing their strengths / minimizing their pitfalls.
if I had to hear "get away with murder" one more time I might have quit the book altogether).
It better helps to understand why my kids, family, and other people in my life are the way they are.
And I loved the humor in this book!
I loved hearing about Leman's shenanigans in school and college and the various stories about his kids and family.
The book's a little dated...I think I read the 1998 edition.
It was funny hearing him talking about Donald Trump at one point and how his birth order affected his success in business.
Little did he know that Donald Trump would be our president one day!
I was so fascinated to realize more about what factors around my birth order helped shape who I am today . The sentiment actually helps me when raising my own three children . It also has helped me understand how and where my relationship with my husband is effected by our birth orders . There are certain chapters and pages that didn't pertain to my situation....
This book cracked me up at times. It was really helpful for seeing how my children are so different and knowing more about each of their different personalities based on birth order. I actually asked a salesman that came to my door (who was very good!) if he was the baby of the family. That's how into it I am!
This is a book I don’t think I would have ever picked up to read had it not been for my book group. I took a small bundle of notes and took the quiz inside that has to do with how much of a perfectionist a person is. Though I was quite skeptical reading through it, I feel it does contain a lot of general concepts about birth order that are relatively true and I'm glad I read it.
