https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368468.Bud_Not_Buddy
I will never look at a 'ticonderoga' pencil the same again!
I never told Momma, but that always ruint the fun of the story.
Shucks, here I was thinking I was just hearing something funny about a fox or a dog and Momma spoilt it by telling me they were really lessons about not being greedy or wishing for things you couldn't have.It was interesting to this adult to learn in the Afterword that two of the older characters were based on the author's grandfathers, one of whom pitched in the minors of the Negro Baseball Leagues, one of my interests.
Among my favorites: Rule # 83 - If a Adult Tells You Not to Worry, and You Weren’t Worried Before, You Better Hurry Up and Start, ‘Cause You’re Already Running Late.Curtis doesn’t gloss over the difficulties faced by many during the Great Depression, giving the reader a history lesson on the conditions in Hoovervilles across America.
As an adult, I really appreciated the afterword wherein Curtis explains some of his own family history and suggests, no orders, the reader to “Go talk to Grandma and Grandpa, Mom and Dad, and other relatives and friends.” James Avery is marvelous performing the audio book.
Calloway, Buddy runs away from Flint to Grand Rapids, seeking love and a home to call his own.Christopher Paul Curtis masterfully writes about such complex issues as homelessness, poverty, racism, cruelty and poverty.Living in a cardboard Hooverville community for a few days, Bud meets likable, down and out characters.
Finally reaching his destination and claiming his identity to the great jazz artist Mr. Calloway and The Dusky Devastators of the Depression, leads to unexpected discoveries for all with quite a surprising ending.I loved this book!
I loved the spunky, determination of Bud, the complexity of the characters, the historical backdrop of the jazz age and the skillful depiction of a bleak period of time in American history.Five Stars!!!!
Dnf at around 80%.It's not that book wasn't good.
The writing was fun to read, the main character Bud not Buddy was adorable and his determination to make his life better was so uplifting.But I just kept it under my bed for so long that I'm no longer interested in finishing it.
Looks like I'm just as lazy trying to type words to describe this book now as I was reading the book.I won't be rating this because had I actually finished it I might have loved it...
I don't re-read books I DNF.
My daughter had to read this for school.
For a young adult book this should be a must read.
The story will make you laugh, cry, and hope that the protagonist will find what he is looking for.
The vocabulary is appropriate for the story, protagonist, and young adult readers.
It's easy to see why this is an award winning book.
What is truly remarkable is that Chris's first book is also award winning and he only has the two books written as of yet.
I will be looking forward to reading his first book and any others that will come.
It is about an Orphan thats an African Boy looking for this father with only few clues of finding him.
His mother did tell him his father was in a jazz band and Bud escaped and was on his way to look for his dad.
This is a very good book because it makes you not want to put it down.
It is so interesting how a boy so young is so determined to find his father that he didn't grow up with.
He is a very brave and courageous boy thats what makes this story so good.
Especially trapped in the car wishing my eyes could glaze over a line or two.1)The slang seemed vaguely era-appropriate (see Rebecca's Fictional Pet Peeve #10) but was super overused, and not really cute the first time - "woop, zoop, sloop." This was slightly redeemed by slipping "dollars to donuts" in there a few times.2) I started to cringe every time he launched into another of the "Bud Caldwell Rules and Things for Having a Funner Life and Making a Better Liar Out of Yourself." (Characters who make precocious lists?
That's Rebecca's Fictional Pet Peeve #29)Audiobook plusses:1) It's read by James Avery, aka Uncle Phil from Fresh Prince!
Calloway, a famous jazz musician, has no interest in taking care of a 10-year-old orphan who could not possibly be his son.
Bud is an endearingly naive narrator who has collected all of the things he knows about life into "Bud Caldwell's Rules and Things for Having a Funner Life and Making a Better Liar Out of Yourself." Regardless of what kind of situation is in front of him, Bud looks for wisdom in his rules about how the world works.
Bud, Not Buddy is a funny, tender, ultimately positive book that illustrates the difficulties in growing up as an African-American orphan in the 1930s.
A well deserved award winner.Publishers WeeklyAs in his Newbery Honor-winning debut, The Watsons Go to Birmingham--1963, Curtis draws on a remarkable and disarming mix of comedy and pathos, this time to describe the travails and adventures of a 10-year-old African-American orphan in Depression-era Michigan.
It also had us talking about issues like the depression, being an orphan, being African American and other topics introduced in this book.It has really been hard for Bud since his Mama died--one foster home after another.
I laughed out loud in several places--most notably when Bud would tell his "Bud Caldwell's Rules and Things to have a Funner Life and Make a Better Liar Out of Yourself." I think my favorite was "If an adult tells you not to worry, and you weren't worried before, you better hurry up and start 'cause you're already running late." He also has great quotes about libraries and librarians, which of course made me happy.I don't know how to sell Christopher Paul Curtis stories to kids.
But how do you give a kid a book, tell them it's about the Great Depression, and expect them to be interested in reading it?
But I'm going to try to play up the fact that it's a funny adventure story and see if I can get some kids at my library to want to read it.
Genre: Historical fiction Reading level: Ages 9-12A young boy decides to run away from his foster home and travel across country in search of a man he believes to be his father. His only knowledge of this elusive figure lies in his most precious possessions, a handful of flyers that his mother held dear featuring a musician in a series of jazz bands. Bud uses his wit, humor, and his “Rules and Things for Having a Funner Life and Making a Better Liar Out of Yourself”. Food and jobs may be hard to
Genre: Historical fiction					Reading level: Ages 9-12A young boy decides to run away from his foster home and travel across country in search of a man he believes to be his father.
Food and jobs may be hard to come by in this time of depression, but help abounds for this young man on his own.
When he plucked from danger and dropped into the arms of the very man he seeks, he stands to gain the most precious gift of all.
One can’t help liking clever Bud and admiring his tenaciousness in following his dream.Other historical fiction set in the depression era:The Babe & I, David.
Bud, Not Buddy is a book by Christopher paul Curtis.
It is about an lonely african boy who is a orphan looking for this dad with only a slight amount of clues to seek him.
His mother gave him some of what hes father was and he learned he was in a jazz band and more.
So he gets out of the place and the search had begun.I can connect this to the world and other books of Orphans never knowing what their parents were or who some are.
In books there was once a boy that was lonely and lost so he found clues to find hes father.
This was an amazing book. Bud is a kid that ran away from his foster home and lived off the streets. He soon thinks that a famous band member from the band The Dusky Devastators of the Depression. He then finds out that it was his moms room he was sleeping in.
don’t have a lot of recollection about this book, other than it was full of jazz music and a boy finding his dad :)
It's funny, Mandy told me she thought it started off slow and became a little more interesting toward the end.
It's at six that grown folks don't think you're a cute little kid anymore, they talk to you and expect that you understand everything they mean.""Everything moved very, very fast when Momma was near, she was like a tornado, never resting, always looking around us, never standing still.
I have a son, but he's not yet five, so it's clear that he's still a child, and my nine-year-old daughter reminds me several times a day that she's still a child, but the ten-year-old boys I know all seem so tall and lanky and serious and I see them just infrequently enough that I forget how young ten is.
I'm sure my son will remind me as he gets older.Bud is so self-sufficient and at the same time so vulnerable, so serious and yet so full of fun and silliness.
(Of course, driving on the Pike frequently brings me to tears, but I'm pretty sure this time was because of the story.)This book made me wonder, when do we stop being children?
Bud believes that Calloway must be his father because of the way his mother used to look at the flyers.
Calloway denies being Bud's father and is very skeptical of his story and his aims.
Among his other possessions, Bud had a collection of rocks labelled with the dates and places where they were found.
The rocks had been important to his mother, so Bud treasured them as well.
Thinking this is proof that Calloway is his father, Bud shows his collection to him.
Bud's mother was Calloway's missing daughter, who had run away to get married and never returned.
The book chronicles the struggles Bud faces as he runs away from a foster home in search of a better life.
He decides his father must be a famous man that he has seen fliers for in his mom's old bag.
Bud has comical and sad adventures througout the country as he attempts to find his father.I liked this book, but did not feel extremely entertained.
I enjoyed that the man reading the book used accents to help me paint a better picture of Bud, but I just was not as into the book as I would have liked.
I would recommend this book for upper elementary-middle school aged children.
it was okay
I really liked this sweet kid's voice. The author does it perfectly--his own voice never intrudes. I liked the way racism is touched on several times, because it's an inescapable part of Bud's life, but not dwelt on, because that isn't what the story's about.It has something of a fantasy ending, but that's maybe not such a bad thing here.
This book had a very realistic setting, Illinois to another State, just to find his Dad! Bud takes a very long journey to get to his dad. This journey, also made Bud take risks, like when Bud travels with a man to the hospital to deliver blood and he drives him to his Dad's house. Well, that's not the end, he gets to be in the band!
Re-read on 10-25-14Liked this better the second time around. My favorite scene is the one where the band mates give Bud his stage name: Sleepy La Bone. Too funny! James Avery as the audiobook narrator was a fantastic choice.
I see why this beautifully written story won the Coretta Scott King award. I would recommend this delightful novel for all to read. Even my husband was interested. He usually reads non-fiction.
My 9 year old gives this 5 stars.Updated: I read this myself. Great book. I loved it.
Was an ok book but not one that i specifically like. It was kinda bland and was way below our 8th grade level.
I read Bud, Not Buddy with my 5th grader for her school reading assignment.
I really enjoyed this story.
It is about a 10-year old orphan named Bud Caldwell.
Bud’s mother passed away when he was six and he has been in many foster homes the past four years and he finally decides to “go on the lam” to try to find his long missing father.
There are some touching and emotional parts in the story that were very well done.
Christopher Paul Curtis has a winner with Bud, Not Buddy, and I recommend it for middle school readers.
This story is way too adorable. It stars an orphan with tons of reasons to be sad, but he has the best adventure despite everything. I really liked it. He's ten, and it's made for a younger audience, but most everyone will enjoy it.
Bud, not Buddy was a good book. Christopher Paul Curtis did a great job making the book enjoyable throughout the whole book. Overall it was a great book and I highly recommend it!
I remember reading this book in school. I really like Bud’s determination to be reunited with his father. He still has the motivation to keep on going, to keep living, despite his age, the loss of his mother, and being sent to that terrible family. What was the boy’s name? Tod, I think. I was rooting for Bud when he punched Tod in the face.(•ᴗ•)و( • ω• )✧ *Yeah Bud, you’ve got this!*Bud even has a set of rules that he follows in order to direct his actions. (Although this is not fantasy or paran
I was rooting for Bud when he punched Tod in the face.(•̀ᴗ•́)و( • ̀ω•́ )✧ *Yeah Bud, you’ve got this!*Bud even has a set of rules that he follows in order to direct his actions.
(Although this is not fantasy or paranormal, the rules made be remember the book “Paladin Prophecy”.)It made me feel so warm inside and yet sad at the same time.
Especially when Bud talked about his mother.
In general, this was a great, heart warming book.
It's not that you're being a quitter, it's just that you've got the sense to know when enough is enough.”-Bud He is so wise.
