https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/880461.Lord_Darcy
It is into such a complicated yet highly interesting World that Garett sets forth his principal character of Lord Darcy.Any unmarried, energetic and slightly eccentric criminal investigator who focuses almost exclusively on deductive reasoning and logic is bound to draw comparisons with Sherlock Holmes.
Darcy does not focus on solving problems alone and relies on the magical skills of his companion and master sorcerer Sean O Lachlainn and sometimes with the aid of a chirurgeon (for the uninitiated, that is a forensic surgeon) Dr. Pateley.
At the onset of the book, WP book reviewer Michael Dirda calls the story ‘Too many magicians’ as a brilliant one worth re-reading.
I was entertained by the setting and amused by the “scientific” applications of magic.This 700-page omnibus contains the entire Lord Darcy series: 10 short stories and the Hugo-nominated novel Too Many Magicians.
This world uses magic, strictly regulated by the church, as a substitute for science, and Lord Darcy solves crimes with the aid of “forensic sorcery” performed by his sorcerer sidekick.Garrett wrote the early stories in the 1960’s and they take place in the same time frame in this alternate world.
It reminds me a little bit of the society in the Honor Harrington novels.
It's a world where Richard the Lion-Hearted did not die on the battlefield, but instead went on to build the foundation of the greatest empire the world has ever seen.Lord Darcy is Chief Special Investigator for the Duke of Normandy and, as such, he's called in to solve particular crimes perpetrated against members of the aristocracy.
There is the novella Too Many Magicians which I found kind of droll--much of it is told through dialog and it quickly wore me down and I really found it confusing at times.Lord Darcy (the character this time) and others come across as flat, and I think this is the biggest flaw with the entire collection.
I've been wanting to read these stories for a long time, after having read "The Ipswich Phial" in at least a couple anthologies many, many years ago.
And in terms of the premise and setting, the stories lived up to what I hoped they would be.
The stories do get better as they go along, but I kept wishing Garrett was a better stylist than he was.
(A slightly less horrendous cover would've been nice too, but, you know, Baen.) If you're a fan of mysteries and of fantasy settings, I would still say they're worth a try.
IF you haven't seen this, don't feel bad.
They ( it is a set) are hard to find unless someone has reprinted them.
Imagine a world where Richard the Lion Hearted does not go goosing off to fight the infidels and stays home and tends to business.
He ushers in an era of peace and prosperity....and magic.
Yes the laws of magic are discovered.
Centuries pass and enter Lord Darcy chief investigator for his majesty.
Magic aids his investigations and he runs into some characters that are amazingly similar to classic detectives of fiction.
There was not anything really "wrong" with this story collection, the problem I have with it is that there just did not seem to be enough to it.
The crimes have magical elements but pretty standard cases.
Lord Darcy himself feels like a bit of a blank slate.If there is an issue it is that I just didn't have any fun reading them, it was easy to get through but I was soon doing more out of deteremination than actual sense of enjoyment.
Read 1 of the 4 books contained. Saving rest for later. Too good to read all at once. Must savor. Love Lord Darcy.
A wonderful occult version of Shelock Holmes. The only weak story is the last one.
Il y avait une raison pour laquelle les deux nouvelles bonus de cet intégral n'avaient jamais été publiées. Elles ne sont pas le meilleur de ce que Randall Garrett a à offrir. À part ça, je recommande chaudement la lecture de Lord Darcy !
The United States remains under control of the empire as New England and New France.Garrett draws this alternate history very well; feudal society holds scientific advancement back just as it did in real life, so that even with magic, life in 1964 is at best up to the level of the late 1800s for the average person.
But the answer is never so obvious that anyone but a dedicated reader of mysteries will figure it out quickly--if at all.For those who do figure out the answer on the first page, there is plenty of fun character interaction, a bit of political maneuvering and even a touch of romance to keep the story interesting.Magic- and world building-geeks will appreciate the well thought out magic system and the pedagogal Master Seamus who loves to explain how and why magic works to anyone who asks.
Since these explanations are often important to understanding the clues to the mystery, they don't slow down the narrative too much but your mileage may vary.All-in-all a fun read for fans of fantasy and mystery.
The premise is wonderful.
The execution is lacking.
Throw into the mix that this is a universe where magic works but is considered a science and you have the basis for some interesting stories.The problem is that the mystery element of the stories is lacking.
Lord Darcy knows all, almost without effort, though we as the reader never have enough information to possibly solve the mystery.
The characters are also fairly uninspired making it hard to stay engaged.So, while the premise was wonderful and got me through the books, I never went looking for anything more by the same author.
Mostly short stories containing a well-balanced mixture of mystery and magic. The characterization is painted in broad strokes, the emphasis is on the plot. Each story is intricately plotted with magical equivalents of our world’s forensic tests. (For example, instead of using a microscope to identify a gun as the murder weapon, they use a spell.)Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes stories lack the magical elements but are otherwise an *excellent* readalike match.
A fantastic set of locked-room murder mysteries set in a world where magic, rather than science, has taken the fore (although they do treat magic just as we would science). Lots of love thrown toward Rex Stout, Agatha Christie, Dorothy Sayers, and others. If you're in the set of people who like traditional mysteries AND fantasy, check it out.
bored now
(This world feels more 19th-century, plus magic, than 20th-century.) And in the forensic sciences, the laws of magical relevancy can be used to determine if a bullet was fired from a particular gun, or to separate dye, deliberately spread, from the accidentally spilled ink it was intended to cover.The stories aren’t entirely successful.
For other readers, like me, it’s possible to dip into them occasionally, accept their limitations, and enjoy a light, fun read about a world where magic is as real and essential as science.This review was first published on This Need to Read
Immer wieder ein Genuss zu lesen. Und dann war auch noch eine Kurzgeschichte dabei, die ich noch nicht kannte. Was will man mehr?Ich glaube, ich muss mir auch mal wieder seine Gandalara-Romane vornehmen.
Loved the feel of a Sherlock style character mixed with a fantastic world.
По-добрият вариант на световен ред, ако питате мен.Но добрите нрави и магически способности не ограничават престъпленията от страст или алчност, а непрекъснатата заплаха от вихрещата се студена война с поляците докарват серии от ужасни убийства, които могат да се разкрият от един -единствен човек – етерния двойник на Дойловия Холмс , Поаро на Кристи и Лорд Питър на Дороти Сейърс – лорд Дарси.
И се почва едно разплитане на привидно невъзможни мистерии – сякаш изхвърлени от вълшебни същества благородници през прозореца; убити кралски куриери, носещи в ръцете си съдбата на империята; ликвидирани по подобие на По могъщи магьосници в затворена стая със заковани прозорци; красиви смъртоносни шпионки; дворци – лабиринти, криещи тайната на безсмъртието, и още хиляди други безумности, които ще допаднат на всеки почитател на добрата криминална фабула.А фентъзи елементите къде са, ще попитате?
(The achingly conservative politics of the stories introduce further limitations to the formula: it's clear early on, for instance, that priests are unfailingly the good guys, which excludes the many who appear from the pool of plausible suspects.) In short, the detective plotting is truly ingenious and the fantasy worldbuilding exquisite, and if those are enough to make a story entertaining for you, you'll find these stories hugely addictive.
If Garrett had had the will and talent to aspire to Sayers' formula for the detective story rather than Christie's, these could have been truly great.
Originally posted on my website, Koenix This is a complete collection of all of the Lord Darcy alt-history fantasy detective stories that Garrett wrote in the 60's and 70's. I'd never heard of Lord Darcy or Randall Garrett until I picked up the Fantasy Masterworks edition. And it was a fun read! The stories are set in the 1960's, in an alternate timeline where Richard the Lionheart didn't die, and the Plantagenet kings continued to rule Britain and its vast empire for the next 800 years. The ru
This is a complete collection of all of the Lord Darcy alt-history fantasy detective stories that Garrett wrote in the 60's and 70's.
The rules of magic were discovered, rather than science.Lord Darcy is a detective, in the vein of Sherlock Holmes.
But otherwise, the stories are good old-fashioned detective fiction with magical twists.Some points of interest: The worldbuilding is interesting, but also problematic by some of today's hot-button topics.
It's Victorian.Lord Darcy is a collection to read for the detective plots, and if any of the worldbuilding tickles your fancy.
The Lord Darcy mysteries are comprised of 10 short stories (some longer than others) and one full-length novel.
Coming to his regular assistance is Sean O Lochlainn, an Irish master sorcerer with a didactic streak.Darcy’s only fault is in being faultless; he’s ferociously intelligent, as you’d expect of a great detective; he can speak multiple languages; he’s trained in just about every known weapon; he’s glib, handsome, wealthy, titled and capable of being quite charming (though he frequently isn’t).
Darcy is a fabulous character and great fun to read about.
I read them all through in two days and wanted a lot more.
Included in the omnibus edition are the following:Murder and Magic, a short story collection including:“The Eyes Have It”“A Case of Identity”“The Muddle of the Woad”“A Stretch of the Imagination”Too Many Magicians, the novelLord Darcy Investigates, a short story collection including:“A Matter of Gravity”“The Ipswich Phial”“The Sixteen Keys”“The Napoli Express”Lord Darcy is a well-to-do investigator in the alternate world of the Anglo-French Empire ruled by the English Plantagenet dynasty.
One of the major differences in the alternate world is that magic works and has been codified by the government.
The world that Garrett creates and slowly reveals over the course of several short stories and one novel is incredibly detailed and interesting.
The Laws of Magic of this world are quite logical and the ways in which they are used are incredible.
In fact both Lord Darcy and Sean, the sorcerer, have at least one exposition per story.
In Darcy case it relates to the physical evidence, and in Sean's case - Magic Theory, usually as it applies for forensics or how it could not have been used to commit the crime.The characters are all very interesting, and I desperately want to know more about their pasts.
In time, memory for most details faded (like the name Lord Darcy and the author's name Randall Garrett) but others persisted, chiefly of a carpetbag full of magical paraphernalia, and a magician-detective working at a keyhole to solve a black magic murder in the locked room behind it.If I'd remembered the ubiquitously recurring phrases "symbol-decorated carpetbag", "tubby Irish master sorcerer", or either name, or "Angevin Empire" which I recognised on rediscovering this, I'd have rediscovered it a couple of decades sooner!So I was delighted when a friend mentioned this thing he was reading, which exactly matched that 30 years-old memory.
Garrett's world is one in which the Plantagenet line has ruled unbroken since the Norman invasion and his central character, Lord Darcy, is cousin to the Marquis of London and Chief Criminal Investigator for the Duke of Normandy, the younger brother of the current King.
It establishes some simple, basic ground rules and then sticks to them assiduously.This isn't a book to get the pulses racing; it's a gentle, considered approach to some clever crime stories but if you like characters like Sherlock Holmes and/or Hercules Poirot and you enjoy a slightly different take on what our society might have become if history had followed a different path then I think you'll enjoy Lord Darcy and his sidekick, Master Sean O'Lochlainn.
An interesting book. Probably the spiritual ancestor of The Case of the Toxic Spell Dump and even mannerist fantasy like Sorcery and Cecelia or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot. (And arguably some of today's urban fantasy.) And perhaps the source of Mercedes Lackey's "invisibility spell without actually making the thing invisible." (It's not invisible, you're just compelled to look away.) So  I'd say it's worth reading if you have an interest in the history of the genre. In and of itself ... I dunno.
(And arguably some of today's urban fantasy.) And perhaps the source of Mercedes Lackey's "invisibility spell without actually making the thing invisible." (It's not invisible, you're just compelled to look away.) So  I'd say it's worth reading if you have an interest in the history of the genre.
Also, Garrett seems to have been the kind of author who liked to introduce characters by their full names immediately.
(Another thing that irritates me.) So, interesting more for the idea of the setting than for the stories themselves, IMO.
The fault does not lie so much with Darcy or Garrett's writing, but the collection itself.Rather my decision to read the collection without taking a break from the book.
This tome collects all of the Darcy short stories and the one novel, Too Many Magicians.
That's all right the first couple of times, but when that type of short runs into the novel it really felt like I was reading the same story over and over.A shame because the world building is quite good.
You have to have talent to be a magician, but you also have to be able to do the math (shades of Rowling's Potter and Stross' Laundry books).
Sometime in the 13th Century someone called St Hilary discovered the mathematics of magic and they've since developed it into a sophisticated science.
In our terms their technical developments are 19th Century (gas lights, horse drawn vehicles) but their magical technologies give them an interesting perspective.
He is no relation to Jane Austen's Darcy.
The volume is a collection of whodunnit stories with this magical twist, mostly short but there is one novella length story.The stories have been published in various places in the past.
The plots are neat and the magical and odd historical twists are well done.
This edition combines two short story collections, one novel and a short story from an unrelated anthology. All concern Lord Darcy, brilliant detective in a world where the scientific principles underlying magic have been defined, and his sidekick, forensic magician Sean O'Lochlan. The stories are entertaining, though I think the greatest strength is his world, where magic is still magical, but comes off as a believable alternative system of science. The characterization is often flat, though, and the stories have almost no significant female characters. Overall, well worth the reading though.
Lord Darcy is a detective in an alternate history, created by Randall Garrett. This is the omnibus edition with all the stories of Darcy but I read only first two of them. They were both not to my liking: the magic is not described as something special, something "magical" but rather as an everyday thing, very "matter of fact"-ly and from a scientific point of view. Garret chose to write the novels in antiquated language and I didn't like that either. I would not recommend this book to anybody!
An entertaining read. I guess Garrett was supposed to be a jokester, but a lot of the jokes in the book felt strained to me. While I enjoyed the character of Master Sean, Lord Darcy himself is still an enigma. I don't believe he was well-developed...especially for the main character! I just never felt like I really cared about the character or knew him at all. However, it's a fun read for those who enjoy the basic Sherlock Holmes-style mystery.
An enjoyable alterate-universe romp. Here, magic works and science is a fringe hobby of eccentrics. Loaded with in-jokes from Agatha Christie to Rex Stout by way of Ian Fleming, but you don't need to catch them to enjoy the stories. I'd love to see someone take this setting, but with a portal to our world.
I have bought this book at least three times. When I think enough of a book to give it as a gift, you know it's a winner.All you need to know is that in this world magic is real and Lord Darcy is a mast sleuth. Off you go!
This set of detective stories is among my favorites in two genres -- "magic as science" and "alternate worlds".
With just enough worldbuilding to show how and why the world diverged from our history, the lead characters go through mystery after mystery, solving them with wits and with magic.
As with any good detective story, the author shows you the tools to solve it yourself, but since the tools make sense within the confines of the alternate universe, it is hard to see the answer coming!
This is a favorite I have gone back to again and again.
A re-read of one of my favorite classic SF series, an alternate modern world in which magic works, the Plantagenets rule a worldwide Anglo-French empire, and a guy who is not repeat not Sherlock Holmes must solve murder cases for king and country.
The biggest challenge for a mystery set in a world where magic works is to play fair with the reader.
All the clues are presented, if you're looking for them.There are several great stories in this book, but my favorite is the short novel, "Too Many Magicians." I smile every time I read it.
It's a collection of short stories, as well as one novella, all set in an alternate universe of the world we live in.
It's great to try to puzzle out how things fit with what I know of history and what had changed.
It's also great to have magic so completely integrated into the world.
My sister recommended this book for me and I'm really glad that I read it.
I'm still trying to decide if I'm going to read the other two books in this universe (which were written by a different author).
An interesting if not particularly inspired series of detective “Closed Room” mysteries.
What sets this story apart in the interesting background premise that the Plantagenet kings still rule Western Europe in the 1960’s and 1970’s, that magic was discovered and codified and that their adversary in the great game is the Polish Empire.
Magic in this world is orderly and largely a replacement for many of the more common forms of technology.
Lord Darcy, a noble detective and investigator for the Duke of Rouen ably supported by his sorcerous offsider and forensic expert Sean romp through a variety of mysteries in the style of Sherlock Holmes.
Read this some years ago. I remember liking it after a fashion but couldn't remember the info. May have to look into it again sometime.
Great and an ingenious world. A type of Sherlock Holmes with well thought out cases.
Lovely little snacks a 'la Sherlock Holmes.
This was the best!
This collection of stories featuring the title character, a Holmesian investigator in an alternative universe where magic is the science of the day, is great fun, although if the 673 pages are read all at once, the Xth locked room mystery starts to look a lot like the X minus one story. It is a pleasure to see these all under one roof, however, and in the correct chronological order -- except for the Appendix, the story where Lord Darcy first meets his Sorceror Watson, and a great war story to boot. Enjoy.
I enjoy the alternate history genre. A world that was mostly ruled by Plantagenet kings was too good to pass up. The world itself wasn't as believable as many other alternate universe books I've read, but the characters were entertaining. I enjoyed the straight forward mysteries and the magic aspect. In the end I would give the entire collection 3.5 stars. It was a little to long to keep me well entertained the whole time. I would recommend reading these stories one at a time.
"Lord Darcy, did you say?" The Armsman lifted his head suddenly from the notebook. "Lord Darcy, the famous investigator from Rouen?""That's right," said Lord Ashley."The same Lord Darcy," persisted the Armsman, who seemed to want to make absolutely sure of the identification, "who came over from Normandy to help Lord Bontriomphe solve the Royal Steward Hotel Murder?""The same," Lord Ashley said wearily."And he's gone and jumped in the river?"
