https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14995.Odd_Thomas
He wrote a book called "Lightning" that I liked, but others I read were, as they say, "Meh." I picked up this book and the next in the series, "Forever Odd," and thought "sure, why not?"Let me answer that question for you:Dean Koontz' 20 year old I-see-dead-people fry cook character reads like a 20 year old written by a 50-something year old that assumes he can write a believable 20 year old character.
Every scene---and it's not just fat characters---reads like judgment, which gets annoying fast.Do you like books that inexplicably feature the ghost of Elvis, and the only music that people listen to are songs by, you guessed it, Elvis!
By showing us Odd’s parents, Koontz also adds depth and character to the already interesting storyline.And he sees dead people.Odd also sees what he calls bodachs.
The Bodachs also allow a furtherance of Koontz’ brilliant use of foreshadowing.
In one respect, the shade-like bodachs may be the literary embodiment of foreshadowing and Koontz even allows a brief description of the beasts that suggests this.Odd also has a sixth sense, what he calls psychic magnetism that allows him a fun perspective on all the supernatural shenanigans going on.Finally, Odd Thomas is simply a well put together and charismatic good read.
I usually do not read supernatural books.
When I read Chain Letter 2 back in high school, I went against popular opinion and rated Chain Letter 1 higher, because 2 was a premise with supernatural events.Back to Odd Thomas, I loved reading even the low key chapters.
Dean Koontz has a knack for oozing interesting things from even the most mundane thoughts or settings.I feared who would die in the end, and I was surprised.
I cried like a kid and I recommend Odd Thomas, and I'm going to read book 2 for sure, sooner or later.
These days I rarely cry because of books, but here I was overcome.
This is the first book I've read by Dean Koontz and I'm kicking myself in the behind for overlooking the man for some many years!
A few days later, my husband handed me the book (God Bless The Man!
I've read some pretty good books in '04 but one of my biggest complaints have been that the books start off very well but I find myself rushing through the ending.
I clung to every word in this book, sometimes stopping to savor a particular phrase delivered by the narrator.
Odd Thomas is a 20-year old fry cook, and he can see dead people.
The thing with this novel is that the plot was terribly slow.
While I am really liking Odd as a character, I just don't see him as a 20 year old kid.
He seemed like someone who's 30+ years old.
I'm 19 years old, and I don't think like he does.
Paranormal maybe, because of the ghosts, but even the possibility of the things that happened in the novel happening in real life is quite unlikely.
This book wasn't supposed to make me cry. This book was supposed to be simple, mindless fun. I wasn't supposed to fall in love with the tortured and unloved (by family) Odd. This story was supposed to be easy. So why am I still crying?  I had not asked to be born. Only to be loved.   Review to come.

I used to check out various mystery novels - like those with The Three Investigators, a saga that has remained a favorite and to this day I'm fond of it - and one day the librarian (God bless her) decided that I was mature enough (meaning I started growing whiskers) and recommended Stephen King.Needless to say, I started to read one King book after the other in quick succesion, sometimes even two at the same time.
I've read over a dozen or so of his titles, when new books by King came into library; I checked them out, but from that time on I switched between the two authors just for the fun of it.
This was one weird story that ramped up to great 4 star finish. I was skeptical through the first 3/4 of the book or so, I even had a hard time staying interested, but the end was great. I look forward to more in the series.
He protects his town of Pico Mundo with a steadfast and vigilant dedication, and his only aspiration in life is to be with his true love, Stormy Llewellyn."Odd Thomas" is a story about a young man who sees ghosts and who does his part to resolve what has wronged them.
When the reader gets a glimpse at Odd's family life, it makes you wonder how this young man can be so well-adjusted, friendly, oddly hopeful, and in his own way content.
This is like his version of the coming of age novel, with a boy-man who sees ghosts and rights their wrongs, his typical sicko villain.
I had no interest in reading ODD THOMAS when it first came out.
Although Watchers, Lightning, and some of Koontz's older novels are some of my favorites, I had read a few of his more recent novels and had been a little disappointed.
It took 7 years.[image error]The great thing about it taking 7 years is I forgot what the book was about so I got to have the "Big Ahhhaaaaa" moment in the first chapter.
Sometimes being clueless CAN be a good thing.In almost all of the Dean Koontz books I have read, I find that I quickly grow attached to central characters he introduces.
ODD THOMAS had me at hello!
This was a buddy read I did at the Reading for Pleasure book club here on Goodreads.Odd Thomas is a short order fry cook who communes and sees the dead.
When he discovers a dangerous man named Fungus man a.k.a. Bob Robertson surrounded by bodachs, Odd discovers that tragedy and chaos is coming soon to Pico mundo.
Though I have seen the film adaptation , this is my first time reading this book which is first of a series.
I look forward to continuing the series in the future.
Look for this at your local library and wherever books are sold.
There are plenty of prolific authors out there with whom I'm completely unfamiliar. It was only a few years ago that I “met” (and fell hard for) Stephen King. So I decided to give  Dean Koontz  a whirl, and (as suggested by my lone star rating)   Odd Thomas   and I did't exactly hit it off.I get the whole different strokes for different folks thing, but I just couldn't handle the saccharine sweet (e.g. “My favorite body part is my heart...”), at times infuriatingly repetitive narrative voice of
Dean Koontz
“My favorite body part is my heart...”), at times infuriatingly repetitive narrative voice of Odd "Yes That's My Real Name" Thomas.
The premise for the book is simply not all that hard to follow—Odd sees dead people.
September 11th comes up a couple times, pedophilia and molestation are in there for good measure, and then there's Odd's bizarre understanding of autism.
I'm no expert on the etiology of autism spectrum disorders, but Odd's rationale for avoiding big cities— that, in the face of so many lingering dead, he 
But WTF?!?Long of the short, Odd Thomas is not for me.
Odd Thomas thinks of himself as an ordinary guy, if possessed of a certain measure of talent at the Pico Mundo Grill and rapturously in love with the most beautiful girl in the world, Stormy Llewellyn.
Sometimes they want justice, and Odd’s otherworldly tips to Pico Mundo's sympathetic police chief, Wyatt Porter, can solve a crime.
Odd Thomas is a great start to the series.
Odd Thomas is the kind of guy I wish lived outside the pages of a book, because I'd love to know the 'real' him.
I don't know if the stories seem too generic or the characters are too standard in my view, but he gets me about 60% of the way there most times.
Odd Thomas, both the novel and the character, were different for me though.
I think it is what Odd Thomas, the character, brings to this story that makes it stand out.
The whole narrative is told by Odd Thomas himself (who has no confidence in himself as a proper or even reliable narrator) in a quirky and meandering fashion that invites us not to take anything seriously even when as the story gets darker and creepier.
Odd Thomas is one of my favorite Dean Koontz novels. With a seemingly average character whom any reader can relate to, fantasy and eerie happenings, it's a very different and unforgettable story.
Literally an awesome book from beginning to the end, I loved the rabbit trails all throughout it and the thinking that went into trying to figure out the complex situation that Odd was in. Bless this omg
The first chapter hooked me-- bad stuff is going to happen to the likable guy who sees dead people.
I spent the next 300 pages waiting for Odd to go back to the room, but it's not even mentioned again.
Minus the Black Room concept, the book is awful--lame villains, horrible dialogue, and unbelievable situations.
I wanted to stop reading, but I was hoping there would be some huge payoff in the end (ie: cataclysmic event or a Black Room explanation).
Instead, Koontz ends the novel with a cataclysmically bad and unnecessary plot device that ruined the book even further.
I think I stopped reading Dean Koontz before high school?
ALSO Alex has been reading Janet Evanovich lately, and she tells me things that happen in Janet Evanovich novels (like "she told her mom she could play the cello but she was lying!" and, um, "She got in a fight with an ocelot," or something, I don't remember) and there were definitely clunker lines in Odd Thomas that reminded me of what Ms Evanovich sometimes sound like, thirdhand.
I mean, the only reason for me to be reading Dean Koontz instead of Angela Carter is nostalgia, but nostalgia's a legitimate reason.
Using his abilities, he must now figure out what it is and how he can stop it.This is the first Koontz novel I've read for several years and whilst it took me a while to get through it I found it really enjoyable.
The supporting characters all felt very well fleshed out and added a lot to the overall story.The story is fairly straight forward with some satisfying twists and turns, whilst this wasn't an extremely fast read for me this was more to do with my reading habits then anything wrong with the story.
I know I've read other books by Koontz before, but it's been a long time & then in paperbacks.
His writing never appealed to me much years ago, but due to several rave reviews I thought I should give his books another try.Much about this one seems interesting.
Instead, it was a wandering mess.I haven't had a great start to my reading this year.
Well, now I know not to waste any more time on Koontz's books no matter how interesting they seem.
I've only read one Dean Koontz thriller before and didn't really enjoy it so I wasn't expecting to enjoy this so much.
Not only does Koontz spin a good tale, but Odd Thomas is such an original character, it's hard not to like him.
I loved his girlfriend, Stormy who is the perfect partner for him with her quirky ideas and I liked the Chief of Police who quietly accepts that Odd sees the dead and trusts him when he has a bad feeling.
A great story although the ending was not much of a surprise. The foreshadowing was so thick it was more like "fiveshadowing." But in spite of that, I still loved the character of Odd Thomas and am looking forward to reading more about his life and adventures.
I'm just wasting valuable reading time at this point.
I find his characters to be a little to nice, a little too real for the horror/mystery genres.
Not my kind of book.
Thanks.EDIT TO ADD: I feel that I should also say that I listened to the audio of this, and I think some of my aversion to the story may have been the narrator.
Koontz has a great imagination, and the story may have been better for me had I read the book instead of listening.
Book 1 is my favorite Odd Thomas book, to-date.
Awesome story with a memorable character.
I thought about Odd long after I put the book down, and it definitely made me want to read more.
I started on Forever Odd (book 2) the same evening.Dean Koontz has created a very interesting character and some witty dialogue and humor.
While it might not be as dark as most of his other works, Odd Thomas has an eerie foreshadowing that really works.
You have to keep reading to find out what happens.I can't wait to read more!
I must start book 4 soon...Cheryl Kaye Tardif,author of The River
It has been years since I read this book, but I still remembered many of the details.
I really love these first few books in the series.
I started to read lukewarm reviews after the third one and I quit reading them, but I see there is a new installment and I'm a little curious as to what Odd has been up to lately.This is one of Koontz' best characters in my opinion.
Odd is just so loveable and tormented and sweet and sad and conflicted all at the same time.
If you don't read any other Dean Koontz novels or series, try this one out.
I don't know why I put this series off so long.
Maybe because I am not a huge fan of Koontz I've only read a few of his novels and they were okay.
But I kept reading how great his Odd Thomas series is so I decided to give it a shot.Love this character!
I love the "I see dead people" concept but even more with Odd's humility.
I love that he's a fry cook, I love that he lives in a small town, I love how he surrounds himself with caring and colorful characters.
Looking forward to continuing the series.
I don't really know what I am, or why.""The dead don't talk.
I don't know why."Pros:-Strange and unusual as this was-I absolutely loved it!
The characters were fascinating, I had no idea what to expect, it was creepy-without going overboard on the horror/gore, and I definitely don't think I've read anything quite like this before!Cons:-While I did thoroughly enjoy this, it wasn't the best book I've ever read.
It did take me a bit to get through, and I'm not entirely sure what, but there was something about this that's stopping me from giving it a higher rating.Final Thoughts/Comments:Overall I think this was a solid first book, and I'm looking forward to seeing what the rest of the series has to offer!
Plus, this was in the Horror genre, which I don't find myself reading a lot of.
So this book was a huge surprise, because I liked this one a lot.
I also liked the dialogue between him and the other characters, especially with Stormy.
Those two things alone, can really make a book more than just an enjoyable experience for me.Some of the story elements were pretty far out there as far as concept goes, but the author made things sound perfectly plausible in Odd's world.
So I can't wait to read more by this author.
Enjoyable book, with an endearing main character that sees dead people. I love his name - Odd Thomas - and I'm thinking it would be a great name for a dog (they say dogs see dead people, too, and they're so lovable - a lot like Koontz's character!). Parts of the book lagged on for me, especially the middle, and I think the end is pretty predictable, but I liked Odd, so I liked the book. I considered a 3 star rating, but I will continue the series, so I bumped it up to 4 stars.
