https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/595417.The_Gingerbread_Man
I have an earlier edition of this book and have read it to my children and grandchildren. Always a firm favourite especially if we make gingerbread men after the story.
Emma was absolutely enraptured!Me: "Did you like it?"Emma: "YES!" Me: "What was your favorite part?"She grabbed the book and flipped through every page, saying, "This one...This one...This one...."The only negative was that when we were finished we really wanted gingerbread cookies and didn't have any at the house.IMPORTANT REVISION!We just read this again and, I think, for the first time Emma understood what happens at the end (view spoiler)[when the fox eats the gingerbread man (hide spoiler)], because she immediately grabbed the book out of my hands as a cold scowl crossed her face and, pointing to the page, she said quite forcefully, "I don't like that part!"
The book tells the story of a gingerbread man made by an old woman for a little old man, in the comfort of her kitchen.
Little did she know that once baked, the gingerbread man would come to life, jump out the tin and run out the window.
The gingerbread man ends up being chased by the old woman, the old man, a pig, a cow and a horse - all with the desire to eat him.
The Gingerbread Man is great for KS1 children, it can be used in Literacy lessons or simply read to the class at the end of a school say.
Lovely, funny and enjoyable story suitable for children.
It's a story about baked goods, what's not to love?I went back to this story after ages and it was a nice trip down memory lane for me. I used to really like the concept of an inanimate object coming to life and rooted for the Gingerbread Man to win the day. Still a hit with the kids but it feels a little juvenile as I read it as an adult. A nice story overall. Rating this here as the kid who found this story as a new reader.As an adult, it would be a 3 star read for me.
This book is retold, adding humor to the classroom as it is read aloud. Young children will love and enjoy this read aloud. There is great dialogue to really bring to life an expressive reading time.
Lees mijn recensie op Ikvindlezenleuk: https://www.ikvindlezenleuk.nl/2018/0...
run run as fast as you can you can't catch me i'm the gingerbread man
This is such a cute story! I really enjoyed reading it. This is such a classic folktale that many young students would enjoy.
3.5 stars. I read the one beautifully illustrated by Anne Leaf.
A very nice telling of an old story it was very cute and I love it all.
Reviews with SpencerSpencer loved this one, it had CHOCLATE CAKE!
It brought back memorrys
The book I am reviewing is The Gingerbread Man. If you read this book you will never want to stop!
In this story, this old woman is baking a gingerbread man.
When all of a sudden he comes ALIVE!
It runs out the front door and he sings, "you can't catch me, I'm the Gingerbread Man!" He goes to a farm and tricks a bunch of animals too!
I like when the Gingerbread Man runs from the old woman and the old man.
I like the Gingerbread Man because he is fast and no one can catch up to him!
The Gingerbread Man is about a gingerbread cookie that comes to life. He starts running and runs away from everyone, until he gets tricked by the fox! This book is very repetitive, and kids love repeating it with you while you read it. It may not be the happiest ending, but it teaches children that you can't trust everyone. This book is a classic and I would recommend any child to read it at least once.
I would give this memorable story one and a half stars. The delightfully familiar illustrations of Richard Scarry accompany the story well, even injecting some humor in unexpected spots (for example, the smile that remains on the Gingerbread Man's face even as the fox has tossed him in the air and is preparing to eat him!).
Read to Rynah....n she loved it. Through out the story...one line catches attention of my dear daughter..as it has been repeated..n now when I try to run before her ....she loves to rhyme those.."run run run as fast as you can...you can't catch me....I am the gingerbread man...
This timeless classic is funny and very entertaining. It would serve great for any kindergarten class that is learning how to anticipate the next step in stories. Fun classic that is perfect for developing readers.
I remember this story when I was a little girl. It brings back fond memories of the library story time. This is a great book about trusting in the wrong people. The illustrations really pop in this one.
“Richard Scarry's the Gingerbread Man” - Nancy NolteGorgeous illustrations to a bedtime story classic.***
It's a classic.
The Gingerbread Man; one of my all time favorites. Years ago reading this classic book to my son before his bedtime; he giggled and giggled. A family tradition 'must' book to add to your collection.
ISBN# 9780385376198“Run, run, as fast as you can!” Catch Richard Scarry’s gingerbread man as he returns to Little Golden Books after a decades-long hiatus.
This is one of my favorite books of all time! It is also great for making predicitons.
Classic.... come on.
a funny story
This is the classic story of The Gingerbread man. It's a traditional literature book that is appropriate for all ages. It teaches about bullying.
who doesn't give 5 stars to the gingerbread boy man?bitches and assholes, that's who
EL Skills - Print motivation, print awareness, vocabulary, phonological awareness. Activities - Read & talk. This is a great excuse to make gingerbread cookies!
I like it
