https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351564.The_Man_Born_to_Be_King
Dorothy Sayers is a m a z i n g
Wow! Just wow!
Though the other disciples are not as intelligent as Judas, they instinctively grasp what Judas cannot: that Jesus is more than a man.
Judas desperately wants Jesus to be the Messiah, but he doesn't have faith that He is.
It breaks Judas when he sees his own true self in the end, and yet his pride keeps him from repenting, even though he knows Christ will forgive him.Sayers makes the reader understand that the characters in the story - the greatest tragic irony, she calls it - they don't know what we know.
A modern passion play12 May 2012 I remember when I first stumbled across this book. I had heard of Dorothy Sayers, though my first encounter with one of her books was a translation of Dante. While I had heard of her I had never thought too much of her until I discovered that she was more than just a writer of detective fiction. I am not really a big fan of detective fiction, which I why I never really went looking for any of her works, but I was suitably impressed with her writings on Dante, tha
However, that is actually getting more unlikely the more interest I develop in old books.
I found the story enthralling, and it would have been really good to have actually been able to listen to the play as opposed to simply reading it off of the page.
Watching them being performed, especially by a competent group of players, is much more entertaining than simply reading the play from a book.
It makes me wonder even more since many Christians seem to treat evangelism as little more than a fishing expedition and simply do not take the time to actually build relationships with non-believers.
As farseeing and thoughtful as always, Sayers brings Jesus, the disciples, and others to life in the richest, most human way I've encountered through written word.
Particularly fascinating is her depiction of Judas as the brightest and most talented of the disciples, which, combined with his zeal, plays a large part in his fall as his faith in Jesus gets eclipsed and undermined by his greater faith in himself.
For anyone used to being one of the sharpest in the room but willing to see her or his self in this character, Sayers brings plenty of opportunity for sharp conviction and rightful fear of the Lord.
C.S. Lewis read this every year during Lent - and I see why.
(12 radio plays dramatizing the life of Christ, originally on the BBC in the 1940s?)My small group is reading this aloud together (just finished play #5) and it's been interesting food for discussion--and a lot of fun.
Sayers applies her usual wit, humor, insight, and imagination to exploring what these characters in the gospels might have been like, what the political climate was at the time, how these stories we get glimpses of might have looked up close.
Sayers gives Judas large measures of wisdom, depth, insight, courage, and passion--and just enough human weakness to worm its way in and twist those things in the wrong direction...
Superb!
Dorothy Sayer’s did a wonderful job developing the characters with this play.
In the New Testament we get highlights of the disciples, Nicodemus, Mary Magdalene, etc.
But in this work we experience them as intimates.
The author takes what she knows of human nature and fleshes out the players of this drama to such a degree that the reader can identify with them, or know them as they know close friends.
In my opinion the best character development takes place with Judas.
The reader walks with him through his idealism, his disillusionment, his self-deception and his ultimate self-destruction and demise.
The Man Born To Be King is a 12-play cycle of the life of Jesus Christ by Dorothy Sayers. C.S. Lewis said he would read it every Holy Week, and it was so superb I intend do the same. Sayers harmonizes the Gospel accounts beautifully, and her plays exceed every adaptation of the Biblical text I’ve ever experienced in bringing the weight and richness of the Incarnate Christ to life.
Sayers tells the story of the gospel in plays written for radio. I would have loved to have heard these performed but the reading is very enjoyable--no matter how many times you've read the gospels, this will bring the story of Jesus to life in a new way. A good reminder that these were real people who didn't know the end of the story.
I really enjoyed the introduction to this book, the trouble is it made all the distinctive theological points that the rest of book goes on to make but in a clear and direct way - so reading the rest became a bit redundant. The gospel stories inflected with a 1950s aspect made me smile, it would have been contemporary and challenging once.
Dorothy Sayers wrote a brilliant, powerful, and moving play-cycle when she wrote "The Man Born to Be King". I loved this play. Her notes before each play were also very insightful and fun to read. For once the people in the story felt like real people you could talk to.
A series of radio plays describing the ministry of jesus Christ. it really relied on the Gospels and put life into many of the disciples especially Judas. Very powerful and would be good for a church study.
A new look at the story of the gospels, fresh and original because it simply tries to get at the truth.
Gave to Sarah.
Very interesting readIt would be a good read during Lent. Also would love to find an actual recording to listen to with the kids...
You come away from reading this think that while it may not have all happened exactly like this, it may very well have been something very like it.Apart from the plays themselves being very readable, each play is accompanies by a set of notes from the author about the characters and the action.
As well as illuminating the play itself these are an extremely useful commentary on the life and times of Jesus in general, and are well worth reading.
Also of interest (though not, perhaps, so much as the notes on each play) are the introductions by the author and others which deal with the controversy which surrounded the plays when they were first produced.
When I first tried to read it, i was already skeptical because of the sickly sentimentality of the cover (which makes the book look, in the best case, like a christmas book); i skipped the introduction & fairly early came upon Jesus described as "that man with the golden hair"...
They were radio plays covering the entire life of Christ (hardly christmas at all!!) done in Britain in the middle of WWII (in 1942 Sayers may well not have realized yet how creepy it was to give Jesus "golden hair," and at any rate it doesn't come up again).
It would be well worth your while to Google her and find out more about her and her writings.Sayers' attempt to tell the story of Jesus' ministry in a kind of "verbal vernacular" - that is, the protagonists speaking as if they were real people instead of folks reciting the exalted language of the King James Bible - worked remarkably well.
While reading the words of a work designed to be performed as a series of plays is always less fulfilling than hearing the plays performed, one clearly gets the idea of where Sayers was going with it.Of as much interest as the plays themselves are her instructions to the directors and actors who would perform the plays.
One of the most fascinating things about it is that each of the twelve plays comes with descriptions for the people reading the parts what each of the characters, in Sayers' opinion, is like, or is thinking or feeling in the play.
There are also instructions on what in terms of vocabulary and accent would be good English equivalents to the originals.The result is down-to-earth dialogue (in addition to the quotes from Scripture) from the characters and both inspiration and stimulation for the reader.
I give this play 5 stars because Sayers brings new life to the life-giving story of all time: the Gospel.
My favorite example of this is from Mary Magdaline when she recounts her conversion to following Christ:"You were the only person there that was really alive.
The life was not with us but with you-intense and shining, like the strong sun when it rises and turns the flames of our candles to pale smoke.
But when you spoke to me, I felt the flame of the sun in my heart.
I came alive for the first time.
Where has this book been all my life?!?!?Actually, it has been sitting on my bookshelf for a year at least, and I have been procrastinating reading it because it didn't really catch my eye.
About the life of Jesus?
I brought it with me on a trip to Thailand, as a technique I use for forcing myself to finish books I am procrastinating on.
Go somewhere where it is the only book available, and you will read it out of sheer lack of options.
Why have I waited this long?" and I devoured it in two days of reading.
[These notes were made in 1984:]. A series of 12 radio plays, written for BBC in wartime. Splendid, moving. Dramatically very convincing, with character development throughout. Based solidly on the gospels, and theologically sound without being pedantic. Only one fictional character - Baruch the Zealot - helps to clarify the knotty problem of Judas - here depicted as a man who understands Christ intellectually, and falls through intellectual pride rather than greed. A superior effort to Callaghan's I, Judas, I think. Am particularly taken with portraits of Matthew as street-smart Cockney, John as loving as well as beloved disciple.
Very interesting! A lot of her choices of representation make perfect sense, but a few I'm not sure about, like Mary Magdalen being the same Mary in the Mary/Martha/Lazarus stories. A few of her wording/translation choices were also interesting, but I am not a language scholar, so I can't complain for sure. It was also a little distracting that this was clearly written for British accents and language, which is fine, just distracting from the actual historical context. I do think she made some pretty profound connections and put some deeply theological concepts into simple, beautiful and understandable terms. :)
I would have sworn that I have reviewed this book before.
Maybe I reviewed it somewhere else.
This is a great play-cycle, well worth reading.
I first read it because I like Sayers and CS Lewis said he read it every Holy Week.In the end, I think Sayers's Judas is plausible, but probably overdone or too cleverly done.
I think the Scripture would give us more clues in the direction if that were the case.And her Matthew doesn't seem like he could be the evangelist someday.Sayers does a good job with interposing natural dialogue to fill some gaps, including prompting questions.
It is surprising to think that when these plays were first produced for radio during the Second World War there were those within the church who opposed them as blasphemous, given that they are a very conservative, but well-crafted, take on the latter stages of Jesus' ministry. Someone even suggested that the fall of Singapore was due to the broad cast of them, and argued that the BBC should halt broadcasts forthwith incase Australia should experience a similar fate. It is also surprising that this BBC production was described unambiguously as an "evangelistic exercise." O, how things have changed...
Dorothy Sayers is known for various writings, but I had not heard of this one until recently. Classical Academic Press published this edition of twelve radio plays originally broadcast 1941-1942. Reading the plays gave me a new perspective on Christ's life, death, and resurrection and proved to be excellent material for Easter pondering. I find that I get too used to the amazing story of the Gospel, and these scripts jarred me out of familiarity and into closer understanding of how incredible these events were. I highly recommend this book.
I love the personalities Miss Sayers gives the characters of the Gospel. Although she is "adding" to Scripture in one sense since we do not have a full description of the various personalities and conversations that she envisioned, I think she does a power job in creating an atmosphere for us to truly see Jesus as a man as well as the Son of God. I think it is helpful to have three dimensional view of the apostles. I would love to see the play enacted. If anyone knows of recording of the play, please let me know.
The author of The Lord Peter Wimsey detective stories was also a classicist, theologian, essayist, and playwright. "The Man Born to Be King" is a series of twelve radio plays on the life of Christ that she wrote for BBC in 1941. There have been at least four productions of the play cycle, and they have been broadcast many times in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. I think they are outstanding. She has an unusual take on Judas and conflates her Marys, but I thoroughly enjoyed her presentation.
