https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59823.Gabriel_s_Angel
That was years ago and was very cute read.
3.5 Stars!! Review to come......
and then the baby is born.That is when Laura and Gabe's relationship should have joined the ranks of countless sleep-deprived parents before them -- code red, just survive another day and hope that in a few years things settle down enough that we can have a conversation that is more than a few sentences and we can have a meal where we both eat warm food at the same time.
5:30 a.m. The baby cries alone in his crib for 30 minutes before Laura and Gabe stumble out of bed arguing over who will get him and change his poopy diaper.
They get out of the car, change the baby again, but this time his diaper leaked so his outfit needs to be changed.
Es ist dann doch sehr typisch Nora Roberts, zwei Menschen lieben sich und überstehen alles, ganz simpel.Lara ist schwanger und auf der Flucht vor ihren Schwiegereltern.
Die Stimmung im Buch ist dafür aber viel zu harmonisch.
Der dramatische Teil liegt schon zurück und aktuell ergibt sich alles.
Und wenn dann das - vorhersehbare aber wirklich nötige - große Drama kommt, löst es sich viel zu schnell und einfach.
Die beiden entwickeln sich zwar authentisch, die insta-Anziehung kommt aber nicht wirklich rüber.
Ganz nette Geschichte, die Stimmung passt zwar nicht zum Plot, dafür aber gut in die Vorweihnachtszeit.
I absolutely loved this story. While I doubt it has spectacular literary value, it is one of the most delightful stories I've read in quite a while. Springing from a premise that parallels one of my own former "fantasies", this story developed characters, and watched as love transformed tragedy into triumph. Such an endearing book to begin my month of reading "Christmas fluff".
"I believe the time in the mountains helped Gabe get back his art.
And I believe you and the baby helped him get back his heart..."Laura is pregnant and on the run from her deceased husband's family, when she is found stranded on the side of a snowy Colorado road.
A moody artist named Gabriel stops to lend her a helping hand, and offers her shelter at his house.
What Gabriel wasn't expecting, was for Laura to rescue him in return...
Gabriel's Angel is a classic Holiday romance by the legendary Nora Roberts that will warm your heart.
On a dark mountain road in near blizzard conditions, a very pregnant woman has a spin-out accident.
Her car disabled, the two main characters spend a platonic few weeks stranded in his mountain cabin.
No secrets given, this foundation is put forth by Nora Roberts early in the story.Where she was going, where she was from, her history, his history, etc., all is revealed as the remainder of the story unfolds.
And … this is a Nora Roberts romance, after all … the two leads fall in love and overcome all obstacles in their paths.
Good story! A little improbable & definitely not your typical romance. Laura is running away from her manipulative former in-laws and she has a special set of problems. She's very pregnant & stuck in a blizzard in the Colorado Rockies. Enter artist Gabriel. He rescues & cares for the reluctant damsel in distress. Could this be love? But wait! She's pregnant with someone else's child. What could possibly happen?
When you write as many books as Nora Roberts you're bound to have a dud or two - and a holiday title written in the 1980's is a pretty good candidate.Readable but not memorable.Not sure why it made BookRiot's Holiday Romance recommendations.https://bookriot.com/2017/12/05/holid...
The love story of Gabriel and Laura. Laura is on the run for her Dead husband's family. Gabriel is an artist who slunk away to Colorado to deal with his grief. They meet on a mountain road during a snowstorm. She almost hit him and wrecker her car. I love this story.
4,25 stars - English hardcover - I have dyslexia - Thanks Simone for the read. 🦋🌹🌷🍀
L'histoire est très moyenne, j'ai eu du mal à le finir ...
Non en vrai je n'ai même pas réussi à Le finir tellement c'est mal écrit !
I've never read any Nora Roberts before, so I didn't know what to expect.
I did expect that someone who seems to crank out books as fast as she does would at least know a little bit about the fundamentals of writing.
This writer desperately needs to take a few high school english classes to learn how to construct a sentence.Middle - Eh. I'm not hating the story; I'm not loving it.
I am getting annoyed by the way I'm constantly hit over the head with foreshadowing.
Clumsy foreshadowing is more distracting than anything else.End - Gah!
I know I gave it a 5 star before, but after my english has improved and I re-read it for the second time, I found that there are things I don't like about this book.
Don't misunderstand, I still love it overall, but just not as much as I used to.Maybe because it was one of Nora Roberts earlier works.
Maybe (again) because I keep comparing Laura in this book the another Laura from My Sunshine by Catherine Anderson (and I absolutely, unmistakably adore Laura Townsend from My Sunshine).It's a well-read.
But I just couldn't force myself to give this book more than 4 or 4.5 star.
Esta es una novela corta de Nora Roberts y aunque suelo tratar de evitar novelas así me apetecía una lectura ligera y la trama de este libro me atraía bastante.Es una novela entretenida y que valoro porque aunque es corta tiene unos personajes muy bien caracterizados, que evolucionan, que muestra una ambientación cuidada a pesar de la sencillez de la trama y que me parece que hay que valorar, porque muchas autoras cuando escriben novelas cortas no se esfuerzan por darle potencia a estos detalles.
Para mí Nora Roberts sabe hacer eso muy bien, lo que no le veo dominar son las relaciones amorosas y su avance, porque en seguida los personajes piensan en el otro, aunque casi acaben de conocerse.De todas maneras esta lectura me ha parecido entretenida, me ha enganchado y la he leído muy rápido.
I cannot for the life of me think of why Gabriel fell in love with Laura.
She finally got a back bone for a full two minutes and then quickly lost it again.I imagine their HEA is full of Gabriel trying to convince her to stop apologizing for breathing.
Dear god, Laura is a horrible character.
a horrible person or a villain or anything, she just has nothing to recommend her besides her face.
What the hell does Gabe see in her?Oh, and this is not a "holiday" book...
I guess it was released during the holidays, but it doesn't even mention Christmas.
I liked this sweet little story.
The cover is a bit misleading - it is not a Christmas story which is what I had thought it was.
This is the story of two wary, damaged people finding a way to bring love and comfort to each other.
Her car is too damaged to move and the storm makes it impossible to get out.
Oh, and by the way, Laura is about 8 months pregnant.
Closed in the cabin, they get to know each other and in a slightly unrealistic turn of events, Gabe marries Laura to protect her and her unborn baby (who then makes a pretty quick entrance).
If you enjoy love stories that face reality situations, if you celebrate a woman’s freedom, and if you embrace family acceptance on all fronts you will love this book. Thank you Nora Roberts for the perfect combination of life and storytelling.If you are interested in reading the complete review and other reviews from my 2016 Goodreads Book Challenge go to http://sensoryperceptionsbc.blogspot..... Also please check out Sensory Perception Book Club’s latest reading.
Este libro me decepcionó. El argumento sonaba muy romántico. Y con ser el primer libro que me leo de esta autora best seller, me pregunto como porqué es conocida como una de las mejores escritoras románticas del mundo. Siento que la historia transcurrió muy rápido y los sentimientos de los personajes no me los creía. De verdad pensé en que me fascinaría pues con los protas llamados Gabriel me vuelvo loca. Una lástima porque en serio había partes muy lindas y la narración valía la pena.
Popsugar Challenge 201824. Un libro con un elemento del clima en el titulo.Me encanto!Dulce, romántica y con un personaje masculino heroico con un toque gruñón que me dejo totalmente enamorada. Muy Nora Roberts.
So I thought this was supposed to be a holiday read? Oh well, it was a sweet story nonetheless. It started out strong, so much mystery, suspense, and passion, but then it fizzled out pretty weakly. Overall it was a quick, easy read with a sweet sentiment.
Primer libro que leo de la autora y es malo hasta decir BASTA.
Easy read. I actually skimmed a lot. Happy ending as usual! If you don't read it, that's okay too.
Nora Roberts can always produce a good read for me. This was one of her older stories and her writing style has certainly changed over the years. This was a great book and a wonderful love story.
Do not be fooled by the cover or title...this is NOT a holiday book.
The story has NOTHING to do with the holidays.
There is one mention of Christmas in a preface written by the Editors of Silhouette Books (the publishers), referring to "...a classic love story about a man who finds hope and love in the arms of a woman who holds Christmas in her heart all year round." The one sentence mentioning Christmas, and it's not even part of the actual story.
It's in the preface written by the Editors.
It was recommended several years ago as a good Christmas read.
The premise of the story had possibilities but just didn't pan out for me, and it is not a Christmas story.
Laura Malone pregnant and alone ends up in an accident in rural Colorado and is rescued by a wealthy, reclusive artist, Gabe Bradley.
They are wealthy and their son was an abusive alcoholic which they deny.
The writing wasn't the best, and the story was so "bodycentric"(thanks for this neat word Hannah) between Laura and Gabe that I began to skip those parts every time I came to them.I do not recommend this book.
Never having read Nora Roberts, I assumed (wrongly) that she was a mystery writer.
I picked up this book randomly during a library book sale and once I found it was a romance, decided to read it anyway.
I was pleased to discover that Ms Roberts is a good writer, with enough creativity to help me think 'yeah, this would be a real person's response' and I enjoyed that she tackled a tough subject: the emotional and physical violence within a marriage.
but then, I gave up the genre long ago, so enjoyed this light read for the lark it was.
Although the story itself is improbable, based as it is on the arrogance and greed of certain Boston Brahmins, it still is an interesting and compelling read.
It started slow, with a man tied into his own needs, then picked up pace when he - nearly literally - ran into a woman in desperate straits.
The story bounced back and forth - sometimes without warning - between viewpoints, which was disconcerting but it worked.
The main story line was well told, although I would have liked a more firm ending, rather than the lackluster one it was.
Overall, a good cozy read.
Artist Gabriel Bradley retreats to a small cabin in Colorado, hoping the solitude will help him find his will to paint again. When a damsel-in-distress invades his quiet retreat, what will he do? Well-drawn characters and a thought-provoking plot create a mesmerizing tale of discovering your own strength, fighting for your family, and finding true love. Readers are likely to find this one difficult to set aside before the final resolution.
