https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6819.Ghostwritten
He structures the novel as a series of interconnecting chapters, each taking place in a different location, and each centering on a specific individual, from a cult member in Japan, to an employee in a jazz music store in Tokyo, to a woman selling tea in the shadow of one of China’s holy mountains, to a ghost or spirit moving from human host to human host in search of understanding of its origins.
As the spirit notes in the Mongolia chapter, “Once or twice I’ve tried to describe transmigration to the more imaginative of my human hosts.
”The act of memory is an act of ghostwriting.”I don’t know if David Mitchell pulled the wool over a publisher’s eyes or he simply convinced them that they could publish these short stories and call them a novel.
After all short story collections are what successful writers publish when their next novel is proving to be rather tricky.
He has synthesized a short story collection into a novel.
My tendency is to review this novel like I would a short story collection by talking about each tale separately or highlighting a few of my favorites, but then that would really be “letting the cat out of the bag” wouldn’t it?
And I think maybe my loving of this book night be just as likely because I’m a rube and a sucker not because I’m a greater intellect than those that hated it.
Maybe I liked it because I’m foolish and open and willing to look for something, in this case an intricate Buddhist-inspired diamond-like view of humanity and its sufferings that showed that we are all connected, beyond boundaries of country, time, the accidents of birth and family, even to and beyond the gates of death.
And maybe this book is just an intricate con-job.

The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed.’ David Mitchell’s ambitious debut, Ghostwritten, is a world of stories that migrates across the globe like a cloud across the sky, shifting and refiguring between various narrator voices and style.
These voices send out ripples into the fabric of reality, which start off small but compound to forever reshape the course of humanity as the reader delves deeper into the novel, placing each puzzle piece together to form a clear, all-encompassing vision of coincidence and chance coming together to turn the cogs of the world as if it were a well oiled, finely tuned machine.
Starting with the sarin nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway, we would move to a young jazz buff falling in love, a tea shack in a China gripped by the revolution, a spiritual awakening in Mongolia, some dodgy characters involved with art fraud in Petersberg, and a ghost writer in London that lives above a pub.In a complex web of intrigue the stories are linked in some way, but nothing straightforward ever comes into play, leaving the reader pondering, and going back and forth trying to join the dots.With its high-octane speculations on chance and fate, this is no doubt a novel based on idea's, rather than plot.

Each of the nine viewpoints are grounded so deeply and across wide spaces and cultures across the Orient, and truly fascinating in their own rights, that it'd be easy to read the whole novel from a light-theme touch a-la Cloud Atlas, but instead, we've got a seriously strong SF theme going on here.It's been out long enough that I'm not going to worry about broad spoilers, and knowing a few facts might actually encourage new readers of Mitchell, especially if you're into SF.Quantum intelligences, people.
:)Someone's been doing a bit of backpacking across PoVs, and I think this book might be seriously more fun to read the second time around, knowing what I now know.Can I trace some newer novels like Touch and The Lives of Tao back to this book?
Satisfaction is the difference between Attainment and Expectations.But I have liked the book even though I had to wait until close to 40% (can you tell I read it in e-format?) to get a sense of whether I was enjoying it or not.I loathe the word “connectivity”.
For us this word is a code for BS.So, it is very hard for me to say that it is the connections between the people, the stories, and the literary references (see S.Penkevich’s list of them) that have appealed to me the most in this book.
Instead of bringing all his characters to the focal point of a collapsing bridge, Mitchell plays his game of 'six degrees of separation' across the whole globe : from Okinawa to Tokyo, Hong Kong to mainland China, Mongolia to Saint-Petersburg, London to a tiny island off the Ireland coast, across the Atlantic to New York then closing the circle all the way back to Japan.Tempting as it is to write a synopsis for each separate episode, to honor the talent that brought to life and got this reader firmly involved in the outcome of each story, I find it more rewarding for now to track down and capture the hidden ropes that Mitchell uses to make these people dance.
"I wonder what happened to him, I wonder what happened to all of them, this wondering is the nature of matter, each of us a loose particle, an infinity of paths through the park, probable ones, improbable ones, none of them real until observed whatever real means, and for something so solid matter contains terrible, terrible, terrible expanses of nothing, nothing, nothing..." Ordinary human lives, sometimes crisscrossing, sometimes briefly touching, sometimes swiftly passing each other by throu
It is like Murakami's ghost (excuse the unintended pun) continuously haunts Mitchell's characters and their lives, his voice reverberating in their unvoiced musings, innermost stream of thoughts, conversations and his invisible presence subtly influencing the magical-realist aspects of the book.
It is also quite obvious Mitchell has distilled the essence of Calvino's Invisible Cities into his own deconstruction of modern day cities like Tokyo, Hong Kong, St Petersburg, London and New York in a 20th-21st century set up.
And despite the narrative sweep and all-encompassing nature of the subjects Mitchell touches upon here, Ghostwritten seems to be neither of the aforementioned.
Oh my God. Can David Mitchell write.Reading this book, you will never think it's a first novel; Mitchell's mastery of the written word is so consummate.
The skill of the author is evident in the fact that he himself is invisible - the story seems to write itself, thus justifying the title of the novel in a fashion.This novel -"in nine parts", as Mitchell calls it - is a series of interconnected narratives.
All these parts are interconnected in time and space through characters who bump into each other, intentionally and unintentionally.Which brings us to the theme of the novel: connectivity.
But I won't lie to you, cool kids: this book frustrated the hell out of me, at times outright pissed me off, despite my respect for Mitchell's dexterity hat-trick (intellectual, narrative, verbal).
The ending--and nearly all the individual pieces' endings--of this book made me shrug so insouciantly that I'm just enjoying the summer breeze of that book whooshing through my cranium's airspace.Still three stars cuz it was consistently interesting and reading it made me feel like one of the cool kids, if only for a short while.
The ten episodes that make up this novel deal with globalisation, terrorism, banking fraud, conspiracy theory, particle physics – in other words the most pressing issues of our times.
In this and other ways Ghostwritten is like an early trial run for Cloud Atlas.
In Cloud Atlas every character returns; in Ghostwritten they disappear except for rather forced and threadbare cameos.
You understand here how vital it was to the magnetic charge of Cloud Atlas that the characters all got a second narrative voice.
Ghostwritten, and ghostridden and by a ghost, ridden.This is my second David Mitchell, and I like it almost as much as the first one I read, which was Cloud Atlas, and absolutely blew my socks off.
I think Cloud Atlas is a more masterful and audacious use of the same technique that you can see developing in Ghostwritten, but I enjoyed it in its developing stages here quite a lot.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
But that's all right - hosts and ghosts are the point in Ghostwritten.
A similar problem could have given me ghost-ridden, which this book is (there's even a Caspar) yet it's the hosts here that are the most interesting, not the ghost surfing.
Mitchel's characters are real - the man knows how to write, as I found out in Cloud Atlas.
Who but a writer would use ghostwriter as a metaphor for the metaphysical?
Writers: the people who give us books.
In fact probably all books written by the famous are ghostwritten.
Το βιβλίο αποτελείται από μικρές ιστορίες-διηγήματα, ξεχωριστές μα με κάποιον τρόπο συνδεδεμένες. Το ντεμπούτο του Μίτσελ υπήρξε πραγματικά εκπληκτικό κι αυτό το λέω έχοντας ήδη διαβάσει το Μαύρος κύκνος. Αν σαν πρώτη αναγνωστική επιλογή από το συγγραφέα επέλεγα το συγκεκριμμένο, ενδεχομένως να μην το εκτιμούσα το ίδιο.   B.R.A.C.E 2018 Το ντεμπούτο βιβλίο ενός συγγραφέα
With Ghostwritten you catch glimpses and sometimes even longer scenes of the feature-length greatness that’s to come in Cloud Atlas.
He gave himself nine very different vehicles for addressing the question of why things happen as they do.
Good, bad, young, old, East, West – it’s all there, with different tones for each.
But the links can be entertaining in the same way that recognizing characters Mitchell reused in his other novels can be.
He switched voices well, clearly recognized the importance of good storytelling, and only occasionally dragged when describing the many people and places.
David Mitchell is brilliant. Hard to believe this is his first novel. I wish that I had read David Mitchell's novels in the order they were written. He not only is the master of linked narratives he links his books/characters both forwards and backwards as well.I really liked the interconnectedness (is that a word?) in this novel. Not just between the stories but the bigger notion of being connected in the world.I only have 2 of his novels left to read so I hope he writes another one soon.
No song feels like it should follow the track that came before and yet it is impossible not to feel the thread that binds them together as an album.Much in the same way, Ghostwritten presents a series of stories that are exceptionally different from one another, but are connected enough that the book can just squeeze into the mold of a novel.
Ghostwritten is the most off the wall of Mitchell’s novels that I’ve read.
For now, the interconnected nature of the novels are just fun little Easter eggs for the Mitchell fanatics, but damn, they sure make me feel like I’m reading literary comic books.
It’s easy to miss an important reference, or two, or three, while reading a David Mitchell novel – I learned that the hard way.
Here’s me while reading Wikipedia’s page on Ghostwritten: “Missed that…Definitely didn’t see that…Was that even in the book?...Hey, there’s something I remember!” I’m exaggerating a little, but you get the point.
My reason for picking up Ghostwritten is due to first reading, and very much liking, another of Mitchell’s books, The Bone Clocks.
Yeah, I was a little like that.This in no way means that I’ll quit reading the David Mitchell books.
"Μερικες φορες η γλωσσα δεν μπορει καν να ερμηνευσει τη μουσικη των νοηματων."Το βιβλιο αυτο λοιπον αποτελειται απο 9 επιμερους ιστοριες που εκτυλισσονται σε διαφορετικα μερη, με διαφορετικους αφηγητες(υπαρκτους και μη) με τελειως διαφορετικα θεματα που ομως καταφερνουν να συνδεονται με εναν μοναδικο τροπο και να δινουν αυτο το αριστουργημα..δεν ξερω τι αλλο να πω για να σας πεισω ΝΑ ΤΟ ΔΙΑΒΑΣΕΤΕ!!
Ειναι εμπειρια.Υ.γ.1: εαν οπως λενε οι περισσοτεροι το cloud atlas ειναι ακομη καλυτερο , τοτε απλα δεν ειμαι ετοιμη για κατι τετοιο.Υ.γ.2:στο σημειο που λεει οτι το "here comes the sun " ειναι το κομματι των beatles που θα διεσωζε στη διαστημικη κιβωτο, εαν ερχοταν το τελος του κοσμου, απλα ηξερα οτι αγαπω αυτον τον συγγραφεα :)) Απειρα αστέρια...
If someone asked me what Ghostwritten is about, I'd be having a hard time answering so I'd probably use the following passage which, in my opinion, is pretty informative about the book: 
The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed.
I think that five different readers would provide five different opinions on Ghostwritten.
Reading Ghostwritten is a unique experience that resembles a dream.
Now that I think about it, Ghostwritten is an extraordinary accomplishment not like any other debut novel I have read.All in all, my first Mitchell experience was more than satisfying and I'll definitely be coming back for more.
And always, it is the poor people's women who pay the most.” It is a vicious cycle that every nation has and is undergoing.This book reminds me very much of the show LOST how everyone is important in their own ways and how everything that happens can lead to bigger events.
We all create these ripples which randomly bounce of each other causing bigger ripples the effects even more people until a simple thing can lead to a chain reaction that in some way affects the entire world.
I loved the musician stories for the way it got me thinking about chance and really showed the whole theme of the novel.
It's been a long time since I read something that I really, really didn't want to tear myself away from, but lots of things, from work to TV to sleep, were jettisoned in favour of this book.As with my review of Cloud Atlas, I have briefly summarised what happens in each chapter below, so what follows may count as spoilers, although I have tried to avoid spoiling what might be considered plot points.
I've really enjoyed the other David Mitchell books I've read, but this was the best (so far, anyway): it was everything I wanted Cloud Atlas to be.
I really like David Mitchell, and reading this knowing it was his first novel is one of those things you can only really believe if you've read his other novels.
I read this already knowing that Mitchell wasn't going to be a one-hit-wonder, that his best books were ahead of him, that he would always have an Asian thing, that the Wachowskis/Tom Hanks would almost RUIN Cloud Atlas for me, that I would read every book he ever publishes, and usually buy several copies in many formats for several friends.
To write in a language that is so beautiful, to create worlds that are so polished and so finished - for a debut!The novel is a set of 9 stories that are connected by a net of coincidences, characters or words that are like some secret codes to the world created by author.
I'm encouraging.With all the characters the story jumps and moves through the time and space - as it often happens in Mitchell's novels.
It could put some readers off, I guess, but for me it was this extra cherry on the top.
FIRSTLY: If the entire novel had bristled with the same energy and momentum as the bottom half of the book (i.e., from "Holy Mountain" through to "Night Train") then my review here would bristle with five stars.
(Though "Holy Mountain" blew my mind for the way tone and voice was used as the treatment for personal and national world-ending.)(2) Have any other readers picked up on the sub-text that concerns conception and birth?
Earlier inconsistencies are resolved and while some suspension of disbelief is required, the whole thing feels not just logically plausible - with the sense of foreboding doom that implies - but it also never loses the sense of human drama and angst, the poignant search for connection, place and purpose that each character embodies being shared, ultimately, between the reader (at least, this reader) and the novel.Mesmerizing, engrossing, very beautiful, very sad.
Here's a quote: "Lunatics are writers whose works write them, Bat.""Not all lunatics are writers, Mrs. Rey—believe me.""But most writers are lunatics, Bat—believe me.
The human world is made of stories, not people.
The people the stories use to tell themselves are not to be blamed.
You are holding one of the pages where these stories tell themselves .
Who or what makes life happen?
These are some of the themes of this indescribable series of chapters that don't seem related for quite some time, and are so free-wheeling that you often don't know what is happening .
And the discipline to use it to write this symphony.
