https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/200183.El_oso
He had listened to it for years: the long legend of corncribs rifled, of shotes and grown pigs and even calves carried bodily into the woods and devoured, of traps and deadfalls overthrown and dogs mangled and slain, and shotgun and even rifle charges delivered at point-blank range and with no more effect than so many peas blown through a tube by a boy—a corridor of wreckage and destruction beginning back before he was born, through which sped, not fast but rather with the ruthless and irresistible deliberation of a locomotive, the shaggy tremendous shape.
Kitabın başlarında Isaac yaşı küçük olduğu için henüz ayıyı avlamaya gidemiyor fakat geri gelmelerini beklerkenki düşünceleri kitabın ana temasını oluşturuyor: Herkesin ayının ölümlü olduğunu ummasına rağmen içten içe ölümsüz olduğuna inandığını, yine ayıyı öldüremeden geleceklerini, zaten kimsenin bunu istemediğini, ormana yalnızca yıllık törenlerini tamamlamaya gittiğini düşünüyor.
Yılların verdiği yaralanlamalar ve yorgunluk ile ayı artık eskisi kadar güçlü değil ve gerçekten de bir gün ayıya bana göre hikayenin en önemli ikinci karakteri Boon öldürücü darbeyi vuruyor.
Fakat değiştiremiyor hiçbir şeyi elbette, bunu da büyük bir ustalıkla gözümüze çarpıtıyor Faulkner Boon karakteri ile.
انا حاولت مازهقش، معرفتش، هذا فراق يا فوكنر.
Read this as part of Go Down, Moses. For some reason, I'm not sure, I think I've read this before in college. I think I'm getting confused with either a Carson McCullers or Flannery O'Connor short story. The first few pages of this seemed like I've read this before, but I don't think I'm right.
– flew right over my head.What I did get by my grudging engagement with the text was that it’s not just about hunting, and not just about the obvious symbolism of the bear hunt as a passage into manhood, but also about the fading laws of the land conquered and ravaged by the white man, the weight of past sins, the struggle to remain honourable when you’re the heir and inheritor of unspeakable vileness, the long path to renouncing what you’ve been taught and raised to be in order to sink back into the condition nature and God intended for you.
Con lo poco que había leído de Faulkner, no podía afirmar esto; pero, ahora, luego de leer este relato, no me cabe ninguna duda que está al mismo nivel de demencia narrativa que Joyce.Este pequeño relato es sublime y está repleto de temas muy "faulknerianos": la posesión de las tierras, las cuestiones raciales -esclavitud-, el incesto y los lazos familiares "corruptos"; todos son temáticas muy propias del genio sureño.
Pero esto queda casi relegado cuando llegamos al cuarto capítulo, donde Faulkner muestra todo su delirio narrativo y nos empapa de sus reflexiones acerca de la posesión de la tierra, Dios, los ancestros, la esclavitud y otras tantas cosas más que se me perdieron en el desquiciado fluir de la consciencia.
Es después de dejar atrás los hechos de la cacería y centrarse en una herencia que aparece el Faulkner que prefiere aparentar grandeza por encima de escribir algo grande.
Ese Faulkner abstruso y pretencioso también aparece en la mencionada ¡Absalom, Absalom!, sin embargo, si en esa novela puede concederle el beneficio de la duda dado que pude asimilarlo a grandes rasgos, eso no ocurre en El oso, dónde no estoy seguro de lo que ocurre ni a quién.
Read for English Literature 101, SPU, 1980 - my first college course. I will NEVER FORGET Dr. Fanny Gates reading excerpts for the class - with her enthusiasm for this author and this particular work, her fabulous sensibility, and her amazing Deep South accent - unforgettable perfection! (I can even remember how gorgeously she enunciated the word "literature". The things we take from college - and the things we don't: I confess to recalling very little of the book!)
this story remind me "the old man and the sea" in both stories there is a goal. in this story different people are united for one reason. we feel life and nature from this story and I think one of the idea is eternity as well, when at the end of the story it is said that Seam and Loma are not dead, they lived in nature in leaves and so on
"Él usó la sangre que había llevado el mal para destruir el mal; lo mismo que los médicos provocaron la fiebre para quitar la fiebre ,el veneno para matar el veneno"
La narrativa de Faulkner es exquisita y el uso de los recursos literarios impecable. Su prosa es abrumadoramente compleja aunque su estilo es poético y conmovedor. Es uno de esos autores que ganan en voz alta.A pesar de ello (o a su causa) la profundidad de su historia me ha resultado inalcanzable en un momento en el que necesitaba leer (como anuncia su sinopsis) un relato corto (nada más lejos de la realidad).Ansío encontrarme de nuevo con este autor en otro momento y con otras de sus obras.
Nature, men and laws all killed by the arrival of the white man and all signs of their existence wiped out.
The ending, with the sound of the forest that has served as a home to the monstrous and God-like creature that was Old Ben being cut down by the logging company reminded me of the final line of Chingachgook in "The last of the Mohicans": "The frontier moves with the sun and pushes the Red Man of these wilderness forests in front of it until one day there will be nowhere left.
Faulkner really starts this out with all cylinders firing.
The first fourty or so pages are just some of the most achingly gorgeous prose I think I'll ever read.
The usual Faulkner themes of racial guilt, incest, social/spirital burden of southern experience etc.
(Disclaimer: I haven't read the rest of Go Down, Moses, and I understand that this fits into a broader cycle of stories, so maybe in that larger context all of the familial stuff coheres a bit better than it does in just this one story.)All that aside, this is a gorgeous short novel which I would almost universally recommend.
Gabriel Garcia Marquez yazar hakkında şunları söylüyor: "Bir yazar için Faulkner okumak, hızla gelen bir trenin önüne yatmak gibi tehlikelidir.
Etkisinden kurtulamazsınız." Okuyucu için de aynı durum geçerli.
XX.yy'da anadili İngilizce olan yazarlar arasında adı James Joyce ile ilk sıraya yazılacak olan Faulkner'ın bu eseri, diğer eserlerinde olduğu gibi tüm unsurlarıyla okuyucusuna " Yine Faulkner ve yine muazzam bir estetik haz.
Kitapta çok ince bir denge var.
Kitap alegorilerle dolu, ama yazar bu alegorileri öyle sistemsel biçimde kitaba dahil etmiş ki kitabın edebi karakteri ve genel olarak dilinden hiçbir şey kaybolmuyor, tam aksine bir başyapıt olma yolunda koşar adım edebi duraklardan okuyucusunu selamlıyor.
Tüm bunlarla beraber, Ses ve Gürültü ve Döşeğimde Ölürken  gibi kitaplarla aynı seviyede değil bence.
أعتقد ان هذه الرواية لو اعيد ترجمتها من العربية للأنجليزية لغتها الاصلية ولو قدر الله لفوكنر ان يعود للحياة ويقرأ هذه الترجمة لما أدرك مغزى صفحة كاملة منهاالترجمة حطمت الرواية تقريبا الترجمة بالتضافر مع الاخطاء المطبعية الكثيرة .. ولكن كل هذا الخلل لم يمنع الرواية من الظهور الخجل في بعض الصفحات
I recently found out that is is from a bigger collection by Faulkner called "Go Down Moses". Maybe, if I had read it with the complete novel and not as a stand alone story it would have not been as confusing and scattered as it was
الترجمة بائسة جداً والرواية مُملة لأقصي حد ، مفيش تون والرواية ملهاش (مسكة) خالص
الترجمة سيئة جدا فعلا والرواية مملة بشكل مش طبيعي
Strabatu luminisul fara graba, trecand o clipa in lumina orbitoare a soarelui si dincolo de ea, apoi se opri din nou si se uita inapoi peste umar la el.
Apoi disparu.
Pieri, se cufunda in salbaticia padurilor fara nici o miscare asa cum vazuse odata un peste, un biban imens, cufundandu-se in adancurile intunecate ale apei si disparand fara sa fi miscat macar din aripioare."
حاولت أقرأ لفولكنر من قبل ووجدته صعباً، وهذه المرة عزمت على إتمام هذه القصة الطويلة وكذلك اضطررت إلى
Se supone que la cacería del oso "Old Ben" viene a ser el objetivo principal de la novela.
Y en ese aspecto, el autor nos demuestra todas sus habilidades en la primera mitad del libro.
El problema viene por si concluyes el objetivo del libro a la mitad, desanimas al lector a seguir leyendo.
Más aún cuando te dedicas a narrar las historias personales de los cazadores que poco o nada interesan.
Y en todo caso, que la supuesta cacería exitosa del oso "Old Ben", no fuera así.
Por tales razones, esta novela se me atraganta después de la muerte del oso.
I prefer the original story The Bear that is in Big Woods. The squeezing in of a new section 4 to make it fit into his collection slash novel Go Down Moses weakens the once free-standing story, in my opinion, making it much less impactful emotionally. I’ll read it a third time when I read Moses. But if you only have the version with 5 sections, try reading section 5 before section 4, it won’t hurt the reading experience whatsoever and will probably enhance it.
Parts are so boring and disjointed with a stupid ending
Brilliant!
Forest. Hunters. The Bear...
Faulkner dünyanın en iyi yazarı, bu uzun hikaye de dünyanın en iyi edebi parçasıdır. Hakkı 6 yıldızdır.
This is a short novel, novella really by Faulkner. The prose is dense, and the story line obscure. Had it been written by another, it would probably never have been published.
"That if truth is one thing to me and another thing to you, how will we choose which is truth? You don't need to choose. The heart already knows."
2'5*
The Bear is the single most confusing thing I've read in my entire life. The first half is merely disorienting. The second half is a hellscape of nice writing and not one semblance of ordinary plot devices. I still don't know what happened. Read it if you wish but there's like 3 better Faulkner pieces.
