https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8914.The_First_World_War
An agricultural labourer, who hasA wife and four children, receives 20s a week.3/4 buys food, and the members of the familyHave three meals a day. How much is that per person per meal?***. . . The table printed below gives the numberOf paupers in the United Kingdom, andThe total cost of poor relief.Find the average numberOf paupers per ten thousand people.***...Out of an army of 28,000 men,15% wereKilled, 25% wereWounded. CalculateHow many men were there left to fight?~ From Pitman’s Common Sen
Good.Looking for Direct ConsequencesThat thought, along with the details of the harsh treaty forced on the vanquished, leads us to the final thread Keegan tries to explore in his unfulfilled quest to spring one of the historiographic traps — The unity of the two wars & thus the origins of World War II.Luckily, he does it in what must now be recognized as his standard modus operandi — by setting it out in the introduction, leaving off during the actual narrative and picking it up again in the conclusion.
As might well be expected for a book titled The First World War, Keegan’s history spans from the 1914 assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand (the heir to the Hapsburg dynasty, not the Scottish post-punk revival band) to the Armistice of 1918.
In Keegan’s telling, the magic word is “mobilization.” Back in the good old days (of monarchies and mustard gas), it took armies a great deal of time to gather, equip, and set out for war.
From this point on, his telling becomes more cursory, and The First World War begins to feel like more of a survey.
In books about World War I, there should almost be maps everywhere.
The impassive expressions that stare back at us from contemporary photographs do not speak of consciences or feelings troubled by the slaughter over which these men presided, nor do the circumstances in which they chose to live: the distant chateau, the well-polished entourage, the glittering motor cars, the cavalry escorts, the regular routine, the heavy dinners, the uninterrupted hours of sleep.Again, when Keegan pulls back a little and reflects in this way, he is very good.
Author John Keegan gives the impression late in this very good book that he held the Kaiser partially responsible for the Great War as he embarked on a pointless attempt to match Britain’s maritime strength that “….in all possibility, might have been the (cause of the) neurotic climate of suspicion and insecurity from which the First World War was born.” Based on this book being very much written from a British point of view it is easy to understand why Keegan is of this opinion.
Yes, it was my first book about World War I.
Only now, two years after reading Keegan's book, I got to write its review.
My interest on the theme was revived after I read the excellent The Last Lion 1: Visions of Glory 1874-1932, and since I joined the World War Two Group.My knowledge was limited to dates and broad circuntances, not the intricacies of the alliances that helped push for the conflict and set in a motion a destruction machine that was virtually unstoppable and lasted four years killing roughly 20 million people!
1) One shouldn't read compact one volume surveys of epic events.
It is safe to assume that The First World War meets the criteria of epic event.
Any single volume will only distort and compact events.
People projected authority, with his sober demeanor, who can blame them?
Keegan uses little primary sources, instead he mines Alistair Horne's book on Verdun and similar secondary texts.
3)Daniel Haig is lambasted as the autistic author of the slaughter at the Somme.
Keegan does point out the Great War activities of WWII leaders and innovators.This is not a terrible book, nor one of questionable erudition.
Only a historian as talented as Keegan could tell the whole story of WWI in 400+ pages....an amazing feat.
Anyone who reads the history of the Great War is horrified by the unbelievable and unnecessary slaughter of a generation of British, French, and German young men who marched upright into a barrage of machine gun fire time and time again.....and all for a few yards of ground that would be lost the next day.
For what?.....that is the question that haunts the reader throughout the book and has puzzled historians for decades.
This is a must read for the WWI buff and highly recommended.
Once again John Keegan has produced another well written and researched book to add to his growing number of titles.
This is an excellent one volume account of the Great War which the novice or experienced reader will enjoy.
I found the first few chapters a bit dry but once the author moved into the sections covering the fighting the book moved along smartly.
There were a number of excellent general maps and numerous black & white photographs to assist the reader to follow the narrative.Overall a great book to read and well worth the time to sit down and enjoy.
A thorough, readable and well-researched history of the First World War. Keegan fully captures the sweep of this conflict, covering all the important topics in enough detail.
In their own time, all of the Allied generals were seen as great men, but following the war, which exposed the horrors of modern warfare to the world, they were widely seen as foolish, uncaring, and unfeeling to the miseries endured by the common soldier.
Keegan does cover the naval war, but not in enough detail to satisfy this particular reader.
Keegan easily describes the experiences of the politicians, generals, and soldiers, how the war began, the war’s course, and its end and legacy.
They require a familiarity with the geography they cover and often do not provide good maps of the area being written about.
They often do not provide the author's opinion of the events being covered.This book meets none of the above criteria.
It was after all a World War. However, the maps provided managed to keep me connected to the events I was reading about.
I think for the first time in my life, I have a picture of the entire War as well as its major battles and its geopolitical underpinnings.Keegan is a renowned Author and after reading this book, I understand why.
Very definitely of the grand strategy position, but it does give a good sense of the movement of the armies and their activities, providing scope for further reading and shining a light into some of the less well known aspects of the war, such as the Serbian front, the African campaigns and the German "activities" in Belgium (not quite the propaganda excuse for British intervention I'd been led to believe in my youth).
It's a nice overview of the war, leaving out little and providing enough food for thought for a lot of further reading.
Keegan does tend to concentrate a bit more on the British Expeditionary Forces, but they were certainly in the thick of much of the fighting.
It did not take long for the German Forces to fear the well trained AEF divisions including the 1st Division known as the “Big Red One” and particularly the elite 2nd Division led by General John A.
These talents and skills of the AEF members were further recorded during the Occupation of Germany events with the Pershing Games.It is not an easy task to compile the First World War into one binding and this book chronicles an important piece of history.
A friend reminded me that this year was the 100th Anniversary of the beginning of WWI and suggested I do some reading about The Great War. So I started with this overview.
It really helped in understand what Keegan was describing in terms of troop movements, battles, and war plans.
The better built British Mark IV and Mark V really helped the Allies in some of the battles.Communication.
At the beginning of the book, I got a sense that perhaps this war could have been prevented if the major players (Germans, Austrians, Serbs, French, British, and Russian) could have just gotten on a conference call a worked something out.
If you are looking for a single volume history of the First World War, this would be a good choice.That said, the book is not perfect.
The maps are inadequate -- failing to show many of the important places referred to in the text and almost completely lacking in terrain indications (it is frustrating to continually read about how an army was constrained by mountains on one side and water on the other...
Lastly, the analysis of the aftermath is too short, IMHO.Nevertheless on balance the book's strengths well outweigh its weaknesses, and, given the crucial importance of the Great War for an understanding of the subsequent events of the 20th Century, I would not hesitate to recommend it.
Both these topics-- the causes and the results of the war-- merit books of their own (which have likely been written), but they show the comprehensive ease that Keegan brings to his topic: treating cultural, political, economic, and technological aspects with enough depth as to be meaningful but never moving beyond the scope of a single-volume treatment.Between these two chronological bookends, the narrative is that of the progress of the Great War itself, as divided and shifting as the scope of the conflict itself.
A great, very well written and researched book that gives you a clear and concise overview of world war 1. My u derstanding of the war was hugely enriched by this book.
If I had to rate this book on content alone I would give it 5 stars.
The thorough research put into this book is impressive.
Dates, locations, regiment, and battle information, it’s all here.
I appreciate the level of detail, but I found it difficult to keep engaged because at times a lot of names and dates were being rattled off in quick succession.
And it’s for that reason I gave this book a 3-star rating.I loved the maps, I learned a lot, and I look forward to learning more about WWI.
If you enjoy reading about military tactics, you’ll enjoy this book.
For war strategists and battle buffs, this would be a great book. For me, while I did learn much, it was a difficult read and rather clinical in its approach. For me, it didn't really tell the story of the human experience - although it didn't ignore it all together. However, I suspect if I were to read other books on WW1, this book will have left me with a broad context that will enhance other WW1 perspectives.
DNF at 12%He may be a fantastic historian, but his turn of phrase leaves much to be desired :( Some phrases need to be read more than twice, to make any meaning out of them, and I can see from the reviews that I'm not the only one to think so.
The book focuses on the military history of the Great War. The author only explains the political and personal environment at the beginning and end of the time period. It's a good overview for its length, but is heavily centered around tactics and strategies.
After reading "The Guns of August," I needed to read about the rest of the war.
He explains how WWI went from a war of movement to trench warfare on the Western front, and the why the trenches proved to be so very static (if one side attacks and leaves behind their supply lines, etc, they become weaker and more vulnerable, while the side attacked, falling back on prepared positions, gains in strength.
At one spot on the Western front, the British troops were falling back before the Germans and advised the Americans to retreat.
"Retreat?" the Marine commander said.
It's taken me a couple of months to read this book.
I've had it for several years now, and it has been challenging me to read it.
My second attempt, just a few months ago, was much more successful as I allowed myself to take it slowly, and absorb the detail that Keegan provided.
I'm pretty much a typical American in that my sense of geography is pretty bad, but Keegan did a thorough job of taking the reader through the war plans, successes and failures and the horrible losses suffered by so many.
This is not a history of the 1st World War, it is amilitary history of the 1st World War that starts outby saying that the cause of war was entirely mechanistic,an unavoidable outcome of the mesh of alliances understrain, and finishes up by saying that "(T)he First WorldWar is a mystery, its origins are mysterious.
So is itscourse." Which strikes me at the very least as a breakdownof scholarship.This is a boys-with-their-toys tale of left flanks andmateriel and manoeuvres without reference to the long,entangling tentacles of history that wind as far back as1789.
I am reminded to be very wary from now on of any bookdescribed as "magisterial".
Pretty good one valume of the first world war but beware:1.
He refers to many towns and areas in Europe that do not appear on the maps he put int he book.
So, I would say he should have used more maps and put some relevant towns on them.2.
He had some pretty weird sentence structure with verbs comeing at the end of certain sentences.
3. Do not try to get any sense of what the US did in WWI from this book.
They truly are merely a foot note in the book.
I definitely liked this book. A very good overview of WWI. I am disappointed about the campaigns in the Middel East. Very little is discussed on Palestine or Kut.
Last year I read Barbara Tuchman's "Guns of August." I loved it but since it only concentrated on the summer of 1914, it made me yearn for a more comprehensive history of the Great War.
While he doesn't go into as much detail as Tuchman (or else the book would be 2000+ pages!), he tells the story and battles of WWI in a very matter of fact manner but in a way that's interesting and not dry and boring like a lot of history novels.
The book really picks up in the middle once the "stalemate", as he calls it, takes hold.Most of Keegan's attention is given to the European battles.
Why, when the hope of bringing the conflict to a quick and decisive conclusion was everywhere dashed to the ground within months of its outbreak, did the combatants decide nevertheless to persist in their military effort, to mobilise for total war and eventually to commit the totality of their young manhood to mutual and existentially pointless slaughter?"I think Keegan is at least partially wrong here, at least when he says that Europe was at "one of the peaks of its intellectual and cultural achievement." This simply wasn't the case any longer.
Keegan does a commendable job of covering the key events of the 4 year war in a little less than 500 pages.
Great historical works are remembered not for the facts and statistics they contain but for the manner in which they convey the happenings of the past.
But in spite of this, "The First World War" is an accessible piece of work that demystifies the main battles of the war.
The last sections of the book dealing with the Russian revolution, the Civil War and the collapse of the Eastern front bringing in its wake a number of young republics were quite memorable and should have deserved a bit more space.
If you want a broad overview of the Great War, this is a good choice.
Basically, what I knew about WWI was that it was a stupid war, somehow connected with the assassination of the crown prince of Austria-Hungary by Serbian nationalists, that killed vast numbers of people and planted the roots of WWII.After reading this book, I now know that’s all true.
WWI should have been a regional action between Austria-Hungary and Serbia (if even that), but alliances and military strategies played out like bad automated trading with no closing of markets to break the cycle.
Neither is the fact that this book should have four times more maps.
