https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84592.The_Portable_Chekhov
This book cover image is not the one for the 1965 edition I'm reading.Finished the intro last night along with the first story: "Vanka" - pretty mournful stuff.
Where is "happiness" anyway?Got back to this last night and read "At Home", another bittersweet tale of the inevitability of reality and the acceptance of it."Peasants" is longer story, almost a chronicle of misery of the hard life of poverty.
there is beauty and serenity in this story, just not with the merchant family in the middle of it: Aksinya is a grasping, lunatic, materialistic, lusty demon in the flesh.Started "The Cherry Orchard" last night.
I had previously, of course, read his play The Cherry Orchard and short stories like The Lady with the Pet Dog, but it wasn't until I picked up this book that I realized how limited was my reading experience of Chekhov.
If reading The Portable Dorothy Parker wasn't enough to make me want to drink myself under a table, reading about the plights of Russians in the 19th- and early 20th-centuries was.Supposedly Chekhov did the stream-of-consciousness style of writing, like before Joyce and all.
A quote attributed to Chekhov, "Don’t tell me the moon is shining; show me the glint of light on broken glass," highlights Chekhov's ability to show the reader the story instead of telling it.
This ability is on display in this collection of short stories again and again, and it really is masterful writing.
Chekhov's short stories are often called sketches which is a perfect name for these stories that feel like they start in the middle and end before the resolution.
Although I recognize Chekhov's mastery of writing, I ultimately couldn't help feeling a little bogged down by the continually somber tone of his stories.
I always think old books are going to be boring but this one was far from it! Super grateful that this was assigned as required reading; who knows how much longer I would have gone along without picking it up.
Some stories are good, some...not so much. There are some good technical things from Chekhov that short story writers might find helpful. Worth a read.
I had bought this before learning my lesson that I can't handle complete collections of work. Extreme highs but slogging through everything leaves you feeling low.
This is a pretty great collection of selected short stories from Chekhov, plus two plays (one major, one minor) and a few letters.
I am not a man who cares about an author’s letters, so I won’t be discussing those.Chekhov helped set the standard for the short story – you might say he invented the ‘modern’ short story – and this collection gives you a good idea of how.
It is hard to imagine the shorty story – particularly the American short story – or what we might call “European” cinema without him and his emphasis on character and tone over narrative.
You've got into the way of taking a salary for nothing, my boy -- that's not the right thing .
."The short story is a genre which has got my attention a long time ago, when I have read Chekhov and Maugham, and now I am coming back to both of them, meeting however some new names: Cheever, for example.
The general attitude gave birth to all kinds of jokes:“We pretend to work, they pretend to pay us”“A foreigner- sometimes in the guise of an American president- asks how many people work in a Romanian (it could be another communist -at the time-country) factory and the answer is: << about half>>”In the Chekhov short story, the truth is more complicated.
I know I liked the stories in the collection, some I even loved.
What surprised me was how accessible Chekhov turned out to be.
Almost all the stories do not judge, whether it be peasants or aristocrats that Chekhov is poking fun at.
I say almost, because there is a rather odd story in the collection - Peasants.
It struck an odd note.Among the plays included in the collection are "The Boor" - a farce and his most famous (?) work - "The Cherry Orchard".
In short, I liked these stories and plays.
In How to Read and Why the eminently stuffy critic Harold Bloom credits Chekhov as the undisputed forefather of the realistic short story.
Ever since Chekhov short story writers have used truncated endings, implied action, and used the everyday to excavate our most dear and precious feelings.
Writers this momentous can be frustrating because by the time you get to them you have already been spoiled by later exploiters of their techniques who have exaggerated them with less subtlety but perhaps with more acuity.
This collection is translated by both Avrahm Yarmolinsky and Constance Garnett and I think it's wonderfully written though I have no idea how faithful it is to the Russian.
This is a good place to start if you are interested in the work of Anton Chekhov, who, in case you did not know, is regarded as one of the world's greatest writers, and one of the forerunners of modern literature.
Without question a brilliant short story writer and a dramatist whose work continues to be produced and translated everywhere, Chekhov did not live long but he left behind a body of work that is brilliant, accessible, and a joy to read despite its bittersweet character.Such were his gifts of immediacy and communication that there were many times during my reading in which I felt transported to Russia circa 1890.
'Great short stories' often feel mechanical to me, that they have to follow some formula to do meaningful work in spite of their brevity; this lack of surprise often deflates any insight they're attempting to reveal to me, the reader.
Chekhov's moments of inspiration come, as in real life, during the course of your day.
But Chekhov's stories are so well-written and seem so relevant to my life (and I assume others' lives) that I suspect they will be popular for a long time to come.
About a million times more accessible and enjoyable than I expected. Long and lovely descriptions of the Russian countryside, fascinating accounts of Russian cuisine - I was assigned to read this book ages ago and never did; shame on me and whoever else chooses not to read it. The edition isn't without fault: at times the translation is quite dusty; the appending of two Chekhov plays to the volume of stories felt unnecessary - though the letters that follow are quite entertaining.Anything that manages to trump my aversion to Canon gets a Slow Clap. Awesome book. Highest Recommendation.
I have been reading this book for the past six months.
My friend found it on the sidewalk in North Portland and brought it to my house.
I went on a long rant about how Chekhov is boring.
The last time I had read Russian literature was probably around the time I got my driver's license.The first story I read was At The Mill, which just froze me in my tracks.
I can't recommend the Chekhov short stories enough.
This is the first book in a long time I have managed to read to the point that it is almost destroyed.
Who knew Chekhov was so charming or so sweet?
Without being sentimental?
Or so funny?
I found this book abandoned on the bus, and since I had always intended to read more Chekhov (had read a short story in Junior Great Books in grade school, that was all!) I kept it.
There is always a moral in his short stories but it is never mean-spirited.
He pokes fun at authority figures and middle class people, as well as writes with a certain grimness about peasants.
Read your Chekhovs, its good for you.
This, my third (and a quarter) Chekhov collection, is an amazing body of work.I will not attempt to define Chekhov's genius here, but the curation and translation of this story compendium seems to single out ironic dialogue, poetic descriptions of nature, and a few strokes of Gogolian humor as high points in his oeuvre.I recommend this entire collection as excellent reading for when you might need a little dose of timeless literary humanism, perhaps as an antidote to 21st century craziness.
Aku jadi membayangkan sebuah ruang tengah di sebuah kabin di tengah hutan di Siberia. Perapian menyala dan menghangatkan ruangan. Tiga orang duduk dikursi. Dua duduk berhadapan dan berdiskusi. Mereka Tolstoy, yang rapi tenang dan tegas, dan satunya lagi Dostoevsky, yang terus berteriak-teriak sampai suaranya serak sambil mengacung-acungkan kepal. Satu orang lagi duduk menjauh dari mereka. Ia duduk sendiri di dekat perapian, mencari kehangatan dengan papan catur dihadapannya. Ia chekov itu...
Maybe I just should stop trying to read Russian literature, or maybe I just need some better suggestions on what to read. Anyone with relevant thoughts on that sentiment please feel free to comment or point me in the right (or a better) direction. I did like some of his later short stories, but was pretty underwhelmed by "The Cherry Orchard" and a handful of the earlier stories that I read. Did not read this cover-to-cover.
I think that I'm just not a fan of the Russian writers. Many of my peers and professors count them as the godfathers of fiction, but I don't get it. Sometimes the stories themselves are interesting, but then the way that they're told isn't. Or vice versa. Mostly, the feel depressing and drag on for many more pages than they should. And I'm left feeling empty.
Really good book...I enjoyed so much to read it. What I like were the situations, the details in the short stories. My favorites short stories were At the Mill, Daydreams, The Name-Day Party, Gusev, Anna on the Neck, in The Cart (this is incredible), Peasants,The Man in The Shell, Goosberries, About Love, The Darling, The Lady with the Pet Dog
OK, so I've tried reading Chekov twice now and hated it each time. I know he's a "classic", but I just don't get him ...his short stories meander all over the place, digress, stop, start and then end abruptly in the middle of the story. Either it really is bad, or I'm just a Neanderthal, which, of course, is possible! :)
I thought I might never finish this set of short stories, but I did. I thought, and also think, this book proceeds from the least enjoyable stories of Chekhov to the more enjoyable stories. I think I am glad to be finished with Chekhov and will probably never read anything he wrote ever again unless it happens to end up in a torrent of Russian fiction. That is all.
I read only select stories from this book because it was for a Russian Literature course that I am taking. Out of the stories/plays that I read, my favorites were "About Love," "The Boor," "The Name-Day Party," and "The Lady with the Pet Dog" (in that order, beginning with my most favorite).
I did find most of the stories interesting, some not so much. But I still can't pin down my feelings on Chekhov. I guess I will have a better understanding after I read some of his plays. But I will read this book again before I make a definitive judgement.
i think i heard once that chekhov was raymond chandler's idol. which makes perfect sense. his stories are bare bones in certain ways. sparse. he picks his details carefully.
What a master storyteller! Stories are just as good as the plays, for which is is much better known. Haven't yet read all the stories, but will keep it on my bedside table for nights when the New Yorker story doesn't grab my attention.
Lady With The Little Dog was my favorite out of this collection...I think there are better Chekhov anthologies out there.
The Lady with the Pet Dog is soooo beautiful.Chekhov is the man!
reading for Modern Russian History
What do I think? Not sure yet.
