https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96979.Man_from_Mundania
(The reference in the above description to a "trilogy" should be taken with a grain, or a block, of salt; as Anthony points out in the Author's Note here, the preceding Xanth "trilogy" went to nine volumes.) Grey, of course, is the titular "man from Mundania" (that is, from our world).
(And not to worry about any of the questions --would Piers Anthony ever disappoint his fans?)"If Mundanes could escape Mundania," Princess Ivy reflects at one point, "they would all move to Xanth!" She definitely got that right!
Of all my Piers Anthony books from my Xanth loving years, this is one I won't ever throw away: after a year of spending my lunch breaks working in the elementary school library my teacher gave me this book with the inscription "To a girl who will never be 'mundane'". Still trying to live up to that one! This book of Anthony's deals more with the world of Mundania--ordinary Florida--than most others in the series, and brings in the son of the evil magician from the past as a charming character with an entertaining talent. It's a cute love story.
I love this book, if for no other reason than that Gray is asked to choose between Ivy and Freshman English. Despite having some aptitude for scholarship myself, I still find myself identifying with Gray Murphy more than any other character in the series so far. To me, one of the best of the Xanth books.
Great ending to a three book cycle for Xanth and the search for Good Magician Humfrey. The perspective of Grey and the interactions with Xanth and the believe of Magic was very interesting. New subplots were dropped and some were resolved. I have found that this series, after reading then in small batches, really refreshes the brain and work the brain with all of it's puns and literal translation of our world. I am always coming back to them like I would a really a classic movie on cable.I highly recommend this series
I love Piers Anthony's books.
This is Piers Anthony at his best... This would be a great book to introduce newcomers to Xanth... 'Nuff said

In this story, the Princess Ivy (who is the sister of Prince Dolph, who was the main character in the previous book) hopes to find the Good Magician Humfrey by using an object called the heaven cent, which takes its users to where they are most needed.
She uses the Heaven cent and ends up in Mundania, which is a land without magic, instead of another part of Xanth.
In this story there are many characters, but the character that I can somewhat relate to in this book is Grey, because I would not believe in magic right away, even though I would wish I could.
This book was more meta than any of the previous novels. It even referenced books that came after this. Not just referenced the stories, but the actual published books as a kind of written history/future. I couldn't help but think of the TV show Supernatural, except the show is more entertaining. One more done!
This was another in the Xanth series. It's filled with puns and has a good story line. The ending seems abrupt. It also ended pretty much as expected, yet it was still fun to read and a good way to escape our sometimes mundane existence.
I definitely enjoyed this one. It didn't seem as slow as some and a bit predictable, it even So, it worked. Definitely pleased I read this one.
*4.0/5
I enjoyed this one - Grey is an excellent addition to the cast of Xanth.
A geek tries to create a woman30 December 2011 Well, I guess I am getting near to the end of my journey through the Xanth novels. This one is based around a computer geek who writes a program to attempt to find himself a girlfriend. The program goes through the letters of the alphabet, summoning women, until princess Ivy arrives from Xanth, disorientated and confused. However, the geek does not believe in magic, and despite travelling to Xanth and seeing all of the wonders, remains sceptical. It
Honestly, I probably liked it when I was younger, but then I pretty much read all of the Xanth (and other Anthony) books that I could get my hands on – and a friend of mine was a huge fan as well.
Still, I probably related to the main character since at the time I was one of those computer geeks that wished they could create themselves a girlfriend (wasn't there a movie about that).
Still, the whole idea about creating a girlfriend is rather silly in my books.
I felt like Grey Murphy, hardly worth noticing and kind of depressed with my situation (typical teen).
I'm glad I fell in love with it when I was young so I can still relive those feelings later in life.About the series: I grew really attached to Grey and even though he does make special appearances in latter novels, the books aren't about him.
I did go back and read #1-15, but never connected with anyone like Grey.
I still daydream when reading an Xanth novel of what "talent" I would have and what I would do to help those in the story.
Ho-hum.Ivy ends up getting sucked into Mundania through a computer program that's helping nerdy old Grey meet chicks.
Somehow, even though the program seems pretty magical itself, Grey is absolutely dead set against believing in anything magical, and that includes Ivy herself.
One would think being a royal would allow you to change stupid laws that only affect royals.) Good thing stories in Piers Anthony's work always find ways to make everything okay, and Grey is descended from powerful Magicians and has a magic talent he didn't know about after all.
A while back I purchased a group of books from the charity shop with a view to having a set of reads I could carry around and if I forgot them on the plain or buss excreta it wouldn’t matter.
This and several other Xanth novels were part of that perches.
I was exposed to Xanth some thirty years ago and the books remain a source of amusement.
To try and call them great art is, in my opinion, to miss the point.
The mark they must be measured by is did the reader enjoy them.
In the case of Man from
A while back I purchased a group of books from the charity shop with a view to having a set of reads I could carry around and if I forgot them on the plain or buss excreta it wouldn’t matter.
The conflicts remind us of a time when having a girlfriend was all important and we thrilled to the sight of a well filled bikini.
In short, if you want a brainless, time-filler read that will bring a smile go for it.
I did and it was time well filled.
The series occupies a strange space between silly and weird.
Anthony has some odd opinions on themes, such as sex, racism, prejudice, growing up, and the use of magic in everyday life.
The writing vacillates between heavy-handed condescending to extended analysis of magic, science, and the application of the rules of Xanth.
Some love it, some hate it; I personally thought it was a strange read but harmless, although I doubt I'll read each book twice.
One thing about Anthony, he has a very complicated history and genealogy of Xanth and its characters and you have to appreciate how he always finds ways to connect them from book to book.
I read the Xanth books a lot when I was younger and really enjoyed them.
It's been many years since I read it, so my facts about characters and specifics is skewed, but one thing I remember the most from this book was a lack of continuity between it and the earlier books in the series.
Anyways, I remember back when I was young and reading this series religiously, that about this time, story continuity for older and early characters was skewed greatly.
Princess Ivy is bored, so she ventures out on a quest to look for Humfrey and ends up in Mundania instead because of a computer program.
Having met Grey, a person from outside Xanth, she falls like a ton of bricks and brings him to her homeland, but he aggravates her by disbelieving in every magic thing he sees.
However, as they fall for each other, Ivy knows she won't be able to marry him because a princess like her can only marry another magician.
Grey's skepticism is annoying too.
Namely there is a really obvious 'twist' or 'big reveal' which becomes apparent to the reader long before it becomes apparent to the characters and then the reader (me) spends most of the time being annoyed at them for not seeing the obvious.In the other book, it works only because there is a decent explanation for why the characters can't see the obvious (magic).
Here we have to wade through half the book for just one character to figure it out and then wade through another half of them trying to convince the other one.
Book twelves of the Xanth Series finds Prince Dolph still betrothed to Nada and Electra, The Good Magician and his family still missing, and the Heaven Cent charged.
Since the Prince is grounded, it is up to Princess Ivy to use the Heaven Cent to find the Good Magician.
Though he has difficulty believing that she is a Princess from the magical land of Xanth, he agrees to escort her back.
This is another fun book in the series, and I think it is a good addition to the Land of Xanth.
Another day, another Xanth book.
This book focuses back on Ivy, who despite being a cute Princess with considerable magic talent, lacks a proper partner for life.
She also wants to find the Good Magician, and succeed where others have failed.
All this combines to see her using the Heaven Cent, and landing in drear Mundania!Here she meets and slowly falls for a mundane man named Grey, and takes him back to Xanth.
Loads more happens, but you'll have to read it yourself to find out more!One of my favorite Xanth books, because it sees two favorite characters get together.
Yep, you guessed it, five stars!
SUMMARY:For a bored, young princess of Xanth, there's nothing more exciting than a Quest.
But when Ivy uses the Heaven Cent, it takes her not to the top of Mount Rushmost, where the winged monsters gather, not to the sea where the merfolk swim--but to Mundania, a world much like out own (that is, boring).
It is here that she meets a young college student so dull that he doesn't even believe in magic, or princesses, or Xanth!Does he have a lot to learn.The thrilling climax to the trilogy started in Vale of the Vole and continued in Heaven Cent.
I was leary of this book when I first started to read it, I was afraid Princess Ivy would spend much of the book in Mundania and that would kill my interest in the book.
It turns out that they didn't stay in mundania and that Piers Anthony found a way to make Mundania magical for me too.The more I read Xanth novels the more I like them.
I love they way he continues to flesh out each character and different generations.
I love all his mundane disbelief, it some how inhances the magical aspect for me.
Typical Pier Xanthony...character (Ivy) on a quest....finds love (Grey)...battles protagonist (Com-Pewter)....and lives happily ever after. The good: story crosses the Xanth/Mundania barrier and makes things somewhat interesting among the stereotypical characters. The bad: story bogs down later into a Matrix - Part III train wreck where Grey suddenly decides that things are really as they should be: the end. After finishing the last page, I had the same reaction as when I watched Matrix III: WTF??
"If loving you is believing in magic, then I believe."Let me just say, that I love both the protagon
ahhh! Man from Mundania brings back memories. I discovered this paperback in my highschool library almost 10 years ago. I don't think anyone had read it in years. Back then a student had to actually know a title before the librarian loaned you a book. Nobody was allowed near the books, being a boys school.How I loved this book! I didn't realise I have been quoting this book for years until I read it again. A very beautiful book. I can't help smiling thinking about it right now
I read this book my Junior year of high school. Up until that point I had enjoyed the Xanth series, in fact looked forward to each new title. This book left me somewhat empty inside, especially because I love so may of Piers Anthony's other works. This booked changed my feelings towards the Xanth series so much in fact, that I have not read the series to this day (20 years as of the wiring of this review).
Another fun romp through Xanth, I read this one many years ago, and remembered some, but not how it ended, which was fun to get there and it be a surprise again!Grey is one of my fave Xanth characters, so was fun to "meet" him all over again!And finishing this one completes my 2012 challenge of reading the Xanth novels chronologically, 1 per month! On to books 13-24 in 2013!!
