https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13501.The_Hedge_Knight
I was surprised by two things. 1, George R. R. Martin can finish a story without killing the protagonist, and 2, George R. R. Martin can finish a story.

I love Duncan and Egg :)Duncan was a squire for the Hedge Knight Ser Alan, but the old man died.
Duncan decides he wants to be a Hedge Knight and takes it upon himself to do this regardless of the rules.
On the way he meets a boy named Egg that wants to be his squire boy.
Duncan and Egg watch some of the challenges and see the horrible Aerion in action!
He does some horrible thing that I'm not telling you which is just appalling.
Duncan takes Egg away to try to cheer him up.
I really loved this graphic novel!
Sir Duncan the Tall is a character you can really get behind and root for, so I truly enjoyed it:) Egg, the little brother Maester Aemon reminisced about from time to time, is the same one who becomes the great King Aegon the Fifth, so it was good to see how and why he turned out the way he did.
With a mentor like Duncan, it is easy to see why he became so different from the rest of his rotten relatives:) I would recommend this graphic novel to all who love the series and to those who just enjoy a Knight's tale to pass the time!
¿Recuerdan el libro El Caballero de los Siete Reinos, la precuela de Canción de Hielo y Fuego que sucedía muchísimo antes del primer libro?
Ya saben cómo adoro todo el universo de Canción de Hielo y Fuego, así que leer una historia, esta vez en forma de cómic, que se sitúa en un momento en el que los Targaryen todavía se paseaban por todos los Siete Reinos, es increíble.
Y, en cuanto a la historia, puedo decir que la condensan perfectamente para este cómic, pues, habiendo leído el relato original en el libro, sé que no le han cortado nada vital.
4.5 stars. Excellent novella set in the world of Song of Ice and Fire. George R.R. Martin has created one of the best, most well thought out worlds in fantasy history and any chance to revisit it is very, very welcome. Recommended!!!
An entertaining story that takes place before the events of A Game of Thrones, during a time when Westeros was still ruled by the Targaryon Dynasty.
It tells the story of a hedge knight that got in over his head while trying to do the right thing.
I think I probably would have enjoyed the novella (also called The Hedge Knight) a bit better since the comic format didn't allow for the expansive and descriptive prose Martin is known for.
Still, all things considered, this was an enjoyable read.
That old man Ser Arlan, everyday at evenfall he used to say, "I wonder what the morrow will bring"The Hedge Knight is probably the most wonderful story to have come out of the decadent land of Westeros, ever.
Through this story, set approximately a century before the events in A Song of Ice and Fire books, we are transported back into a time when honour and chivalry still mattered to some people and the world was not as full of hopelessness and despair.The most wonderful part about reading it, though, was the fact that having The World of Ice and Fire prior to this, many pieces of the giant jigsaw puzzle that is George RR Martin's universe fe;; into place.
Άργησα λίγο να το διαβάσω γιατί ήθελα πρώτα να ολοκληρώσω τις τρεις ιστορίες του Μεταίχμιο τώρα όμως που το έχω διαβάσει μπορώ να πω ότι δεν θα είναι αυτό το πρώτο και μοναδικό μου graphic novel και πως ο φόβος μου για το είδος έχει ξεπεραστεί.
Upon reading the graphic novel, I found all of my fears allayed and that the book does more than just add to the setting of the Song of Fire and Ice.I was pleased to find that the novel used figures that had been mentioned in previous book.
Knowledge that the novel was based on a previously published story allayed any frustration I was feeling about Feast.Most importantly though, beyond my obsession with the Song of Fire and Ice, the story was an excellent display of chivalry and character.
I'm glad I read this and by doing so entered the world of the Hedge Knight.
Knights who fought where needed or where they felt they had to.
Duncan is one of them trying to make it in the world and he finds himself trapped in a family feud .
I think somehow I went back to the times when I was a tiny cog watching old movies about knights on lazy Sunday afternoons going totally nuts about justing.
For some weird reason it also reminded me of Heath Ledger in "A Knight's Tale" I'm ready for the second volume.
My first graphic novel. It was fun! And it was cute. Well, it was cute when it wasn't gross at least. It was something different for sure. Not a format I want to read too regularly.. But it is something I will pick up in the future, to change it up every once in a while. I will no longer fear graphic novels; I'm no longer a GN virgin.The story was interesting, the artwork was well done. Not much else to say. Four stars.
100 before the events of "Game of Thrones", A squire learns what it means to be a knight.تدور أحداث الرواية المصورة قبل قرن كامل من أحداث "لعبة العروش"، عن "دَنك" الشاب حامل سلاح الفارس "أرلان".
"أرلان" الذي تبدأ الرواية بوفاته، ليس بالطرق الشنيعة الملتوية التي يحبها المؤلف "جورج مارتن"، ولكنه موت طبيعي هادئ.
ثم سرعان ما يقابل الصبي "إج" الذي يرجوه أن يكون حامل أسلحته، وأن يصحبه إلى مسابقة المبارزة الكبيرة التي سيتنافس فيها أشهر فرسان الممالك السبعة.تأخذنا الرواية لعالم "لعبة العروش" المعقد بممالكه السبع وعائلاته الشهيرة وتاريخه المليء بالتفاصيل، نقابل الفرسان من عائلات باراثيون ولانستر وتيريل وطبعا عائلة تارجريان الملكية التي تحمل دماء التنانين.
This was just awesome.
I am thrown back into Westeros.
Sure, it's a hundred years before the events of the Song of Ice and Fire series, but still...it's Westeros.
The artwork in this was incredible and I really enjoyed the story.
It was by far the wordiest comic I have ever read....Leave it to GRRM to turn a comic into a novel.
But, there was a lot of story to be told.
I look forward to reading more of this series though and obviously the novellas that the graphic novels are based on.
I definitely recommend this to all GRRM fans!
This is a graphic novel presentation of Martin's prequel novella for his Song of Fire and Ice. In other words, a comic book that takes place before Game of Thrones. I enjoyed the story and the themes. It was very interesting to see the houses represented in an earlier time with at least one character who is mentioned in the regular series.
3.75
A is B's son, who is C's brother, who was supposed to squire for D until D died when they fought E at the battle of FGH against the IJKs. That sort of thing works in prose, especially novels so intricate and detailed and awesome as Martin's Ice & Fire books, because one can take the time to give that history and detail and show the reader what they need to know.
O_oThis is not the best graphic novel I've read, but this kind of intricate story doesn't strike me as the best candidate to be adapted to this format.
If I were to try to describe this book to someone, I think it would end up sounding very boring!
It really says something that the author can bring all the elements together to make the book so good!
This was an intensely character driven book so it's good that I was invested in Dunk from the start.
I don't know why the author decided to make the book so short.
I think a lot more could have been done with it.
I really liked Dunk and Egg and would have liked to read more of their adventures.
Set about a hundred years before the original series, the story follows Dunk, a hedge knight (a knight without a Lord), and Egg, also known as Aegon - one of the Tagaryen Princes who later ascends the Iron Throne.
And again, so interesting to see how this hedge knight would eventually become Lord Commander of the Knigsguard when Aegon takes the throne.So while I may complain that the original series is not yet finished, I do enjoy learning more about Westerosi history and the complicated relationships of its people.
Původně jsem počítala s tím, že od Martina přečtu jako první něco docela jiného, ale čert to vem.
Krátký ale epický.
V jednu chvíli myšlenkové bubliny (tady svitky) "mluví" na nevzdělaného Dunka moc sofistikovaně, ale možná, že jde o nečekaný vstup vševědoucího vypravěče.
Drobnou muškou v grafické stránce je to, že postavy občas vypadají jako když mají krví podlité oči.
Je to vždy, když jsou brány zdálky nebo chtěl kreslíř ukázat, že mají oči přivřené ale v konečném důsledku rytíři často vidí rudě.
Například jsem měla za to, že panoše může na rytíře pasovat pouze král nebo někdo z královského rodu.
Since I am hair-tearing-out desperate to get back into Martin's world in the form of a thousand-page novel, I thought this was going to be a mere sad peek that would leave me aching.
But this was a lot better than I expected, a nice story with all the usual suspects; young knight standing up for honor, evil member of the reigning family that you wish would just get a fierce kick in the pants - if you've ever wanted to punch Joffrey Baratheon in the nose, this ought to get you all fired up.
GRRM writes his own fanfiction. And amazingly enough, virtue is rewarded, vice is punished, and, um, only a few sympathetic characters die? I liked it!
This is the chronicles of the errant and clumsy knight, Dunk and his squire of sorts, the smart mouthed little bald headed Egg. They have adventures and try their best to not get killed in a world that really, really wants to kill them. Quick and great read, and the art in this graphic novel is very good. If you are a fan of Game of Thrones, give this a look. You might enjoy it!Danny
I read the short story a couple of years ago and loved it. This graphic novel adaptation is super amazing. Ben Avery does a great job at pacing and exposition and enlivening Mike Millers artwork. This is a beaut.
Miller and livened by colorist Mike Crowell, "The Hedge Knight" gives both "Game of Thrones" book and show fans a great look into the history of the Seven Kingdoms by seeing the beginnings of two individuals, Ser Duncan (Dunk) the Tall and the future King Aegon (Egg) V, who impact the series even a century later.The story begins with Dunk burying his mentor Ser Arlan Pennytree before taking his arms and horses to the Tourney at Ashford Meadow in an attempt to win a place in a lord's house by winning a tilt and becoming a champion if only for a little while.
Ok, I have loved the Dunk and Egg stories for long (and The Hedge Knight is my favorite) but reading it in graphic novel form just took me to the next level.I have the two first volume of A Game of Thrones graphic novel and I must say it was just blah.
I am not well-versed in this stuff but I feel like the drawings really bring the characters into life.
So many scenes were very well translated - I laughed a lot on Dunk's thickness and Egg's antics.
I felt like leaping with joy when Baelor first appeared.
An enthralling tale set 100 years before the events of a Song of Ice and Fire, when the "Dragons" were plentiful and the Targaryen line was full of able bodied young possible heirs (this is Master Aemon's group, though he is studying at the Citadel for this tale).
The story is set around a young Hedge Knight hoping to do well at a tourney that is being attended by a whole flock of Targaryens.
If you've read the other books you might have an idea of how that might go.
Read it.
It's a quick tale that will leave you wanting more from Targaryen and Hedge Knight alike.
This was awesome! A hundred years before 'Song of Ice and Fire', the Targaryens rule. A hedge knight named Dunk goes to his first tournament. On the way there, he meets two strange boys - one too drunk and one called Egg, who was too eager to be a knight's squire. Nicely written, funny and with plot twists I didn't see coming. Daeron Targaryen had a small role, but is now one of my all times favorite minor characters and definitely the funniest. I hope to see more of him in the next Dunk and Egg's adventures.
Not bad. RIP the horse killed by Aerion and Prince Baelor. Aerion reminds me of Viserys (?). Good start to the graphic novel version. Can't wait to see Dorne.Would recommend for any Song of Ice and Fire novel series fans and Game of Thrones TV series fans.
wonderful. I felt all the feels and the art work is epic and breathtaking. I made this face quite a bit while reading :O no joke
