https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424340.Zen_in_the_Martial_Arts
This little book shares the insights Joe Hyams experienced while studying karate over the years with such masters as Bruce Lee, Bong Soo Han, Ed Parker, and others.
Twenty years later he arranged what he learned into short chapters which show the issue involved, the way he discovered it, and how he applied the teachings in his life away from the karate dojo.
The student who is interested in the martial arts for the spiritual aspects needs to read this book to have a chance to see how these aspects changed the life of one man and could change their own.This book was easy to read and friendly.
Before there was mindfulness there was Zen. After mindfulness there will still be Zen.A wonderfully accessible recounting of one man's experiences with Zen in the martial arts, and as always, Zen is entirely applicable to living life.Recommended for anyone looking for realistic examples of the application of Zen presence.
Nice introduction to this important concept. If you have someone who is deciding to take martial arts classes for the first time give then this book...they will be able to go back to it as they reach the goals that they set for their advancement in rank.
He has studied under Ed Parks and the legend himself Bruce Lee. Joe has experienced a lot of difficulties in his martial arts training, but most of all is the art to control the impossible, to act without thinking, to move without moving, to use effort effortlessly, the art of ZEN.In this book Joe explains how learning Zen and understanding how to implement it, can help you in various aspects of life.
The first time I read this book, I wasn't "ready" to read it. The second time I read this book, I wasn't ready to "accept" it. The third time I read this book, I wasn't ready to stop reading it. I've decided this will be a book I carry around with me.
There are many self-help books out there that want to transform you to a "better" you.
This book, presents the same concepts and same "laws" mentioned in other popular books meant to "transform" you.
So, if it is not a unique book, why the 5 star rating?The stories in this book intrigue you and hold you due to their human touch.
They are unique in that no other book has ever ventured into providing life lessons via Martial Arts examples.
Other books, particularly business books, will attempt to teach you via day-to-day examples and cognitive techniques.
It is unique.
Zen in the Martial Arts by Joe Hyams is truly inspirational, and I can say it has changed my life.
Considering the kind of person I am, who doesn't enjoy reading, I've read this book five times.
He takes an interest in the martial arts, and studies with all kinds of famous martial artists.
Joe Hyams shares his experiences and lessons with the reader, and they can be applied to everyday life.
Zen in the Martial Arts may not be for some people, but for an open minded philosophical person, it might even change your life.


This book is an excellent and easy read.
It took me a little bit to get used to the way the author lead to the "lesson" in each with a story, but found that I really enjoyed the style.
It felt very much to me like having a conversation with the author about the lessons he learned.I will caution anyone expecting a treatise on martial arts history or a "step-by-step" book about martial arts or even how to apply Zen to a martial art.
This is a book that requires the reader to pull the lessons out of the stories.
A true classic on Zen and martial artsA classic book on Zen and how the martial arts can be a pathway to learning it. I highly recommend this book to both martial artist as well as anyone who is looking for an introductory book on Zen.
I have read it several times over the past many years and it has always encourage me to pursue peace, pleasure, health, the non violent use of martial arts and to mentally prepare for violent confrontational engagements.
A great read, and something I'll come back to many times. If you've new to practice and want to make it deeper than rote learning or "just combat", definitely give this a go. I felt very much more aware of the extra dimension in my class today, and it showed.
It's the first book of my life that lead me in the sacred way of martial arts. I hope everyone who interest in this way. Don't hesitate to read it for your first step on the way of wisdom and courage. Open up the world inside your heart.
Easy read but awesome! I am understanding Zen more than ever. The author is so clear in his writing and experiences and also explaining how to apply zen principles in everyday life.
A very valuable book for those who wish to develop the inner skills of a martial artist. Particularly valuable to practitioners of the arts who are older or who have physical limitations.
Can't say enough good things about this book!
This small unpretentious book is composed of little two to five page anecdotes related to the authors experiences studying with different Martial Arts Masters. It’s not at all about fighting technique but about the other personal lessons learned from Martial Arts, and how the author realized how well those principles apply to life. It is especially recommended for people who don’t read often or who don’t have long stretches of free time to read. Perfectly pocket-sized for public transit.
At forty-five, I felt I was too old and my body too stiff to achieve any real ability in jeet-kune-do."You will never learn anything new unless you are ready to accept yourself with your limitations," Bruce answered.
"You must accept the fact that you are capable in some directions and limited in others, and you must develop your capabilities." "But ten years ago I could easily kick over my head," I said.
My capabilities exceed my limitations."Bruce's capabilities did in fact exceed his limitations and, until his youthful death, he was one of the biggest stars in films.
Even if you are not interested at all in the martial arts, you should read it because of its easy-to-understand way of introducing complex zen concepts.Among my favorite excerpts are the following:- Martial arts are essentially avenues through which the artists can reach spiritual serenity, mental tranquility, and self-confidence- A dojo can be seen as a simplification of the world, in which we maked contact with our inner selves - fears, anxieties, reactions, habits --> the conflicts that happen inside the dojo can help us handle conflicts outside of it- A man who has attained mastery of an art reveals it in his every action- The key is to improve the process, not trying to perfect the product- In the present there are no regrets as there are in the past --> while doing something, do it at the fullest, from simple to complex things- Know your limits and accept them as part of yourself --> you will never learn anything new unless you are ready to accept yourself with your limitations- Instead of trying to do everything well, do those things perfectly of which you are capable- To spend time is to pass it in a specified manner.
It will always encourage me to pursue peace, pleasure, health, the non violent use of martial arts and to mentally prepare for violent confrontational engagements both in life and in the dojo.Examples of what you can learn from this book:Know your limits and accept them as part of yourself --> you will never learn anything new unless you are ready to accept yourself with your limitations- Instead of trying to do everything well, do those things perfectly of which you are capable- To spend time is to pass it in a specified manner.
Zen in the Martial Arts is a book that is filled with insights and lessons of humility. It is a work that is most fitting for both martial artist and non-martial artist. It's definitely book that I will continually revisit.
I quite liked it overall. Some details seem a little dated but the core of the book is quite profound and reflects insights gained from his long practice of the martial arts. People interested in mindfulness and meditation would also find a lot to appreciate here.
Great set of lifestyle principles toward the development of personal character derived from one man's journey in training with Bruce Lee.
highly recommended to anyone interested in zen or martial arts (duh). loved it.
Everyone should read this book. Essential book for martial artists, but a must have for the regular average joe.
This book definitely changed who I was as a martial artist. It made me put everything into perspective.
Concise, thoughtful and full of truths. Applies to life lessons overall. And I found its messages totally enlightening.
I've read this twice, and I heartily recommend it to martial artists. It's a slim little volume, and quick to get through.
read for the third time ( different incarnation, many years later )
