https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228304.Inside_Out

A year later I was floored by the substance in the book; the breath and depth of what inside change looks like from the perspective that emphasizes depravity and our natural longing to make life work..
It is a challenge to read this book, as many of the individuals I've offered the book to have admitted; either by dismissing it entirely or glossing over some really powerful concepts that no one could if you understand the significance.
I think crab addresses this from a biblical perspective.
You can't win with this book. Even if your being honest you're not honest enough. If you admit you're broken you're not broken enough. If you're happy you're lying. It is not a feel good read with no practical application. Larry spends too much time talking about himself and his most extreme example patients. No references about real people in the middle. Blah.
Though Inside Out contains great wisdom and insight into the depth of authenticity lacking in the lives of most Believers, I struggle with some of Crabb's theology.
He claims that spiritual depth will intensify the pains of life because of the true realization of the fallen world in which we live.
We, as Believers, have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit living in us.
Joy dwells IN us.
Yes, I agree, we must acknowledge the reality of pain that we experience in the world, working with the Holy Spirit and fellow believers to truly heal our pains and not gloss over them.
I also felt a deep appreciation for an author who could articulate questions and predicaments I have encountered, but which seem too intense to be acknowledged in other social forums or by other people in positions of authority.
Good behavior, kindness, self-discipline, and personal responsibility seem virtuous and desirable, but Crabb deftly demonstrates how misleading and injurious they can be.
I was impressed by his refusal to sugar-coat the problems and suffering people experience.
Crabb shows how this veneer is reenforced by desires to be productive, selfless and strong for others but how, in fact, it precludes deep connection.
I got so angry reading it at one point that I physically threw the book across the room (great visual memory of its trajectory as it bounced off the wall).This book spoke truth to me at a time I didn't want to hear it.
I later came to appreciate the message and am grateful for its writing.Larry Crabb's writing has evolved over the years as his own journey with Christ continues to mature.
It's worthwhile to read some of his later titles as well.
I find it interesting and encouraging to see growth in an author over time.
This has to be one of the most difficult, discomforting books I've ever read; I'm still wrestling (and suspect I will continue to wrestle for a long time) with a good number of insights and principles that it outlines. Christians who are comfortable where they are would not be pleased with this work, which forces one to challenge him/herself and confront some very hard questions that can shake up his/her life.
This was another life-transforming, paradigm-shifting book for me! I saw myself and my family of origin far more clearly after reading this book. The theme is that if we are ever to change, it must be real change--from the inside out. If you are wanting to truly change and grow, this is a terrific book!
Crabb writes a modern, more plaintive version of Owen's Mortification of Sin. If you read this book, be prepared to feel burdened, torn to shreds by the weight of sin...restored only through petitioning for a clearer focus on Christ and our relation to what He did for us on the cross. Read it, but be ready for it to rock you at your core.
Dr. Crabb does a great job explaining why things are still wrong in the world and why Christians still experience trials and struggles.And he does a good job explaining how to seek resolution that may not imitate resolving the problem but understanding and putting it on the shelf.Great read for those who ask the question, "Why do bad things happen?"
Actually started reading it on August 1st while in San Diego with my children. Awesome book! Well worth the time and reading this book is time well spent! Suggest reading it thru rather quickly at first and then going back and rereading it ever so slowly, taking a week per chapter to really get it to sink in and stick!
The good dog however , was placed in our heart by God when we became a Christian and it was already tame.
IN OTHER WORDS, I AM NOT REFERRING TO THE PERSON WHO COMES TO MIND AS YOU READ THIS STORY." (76) PART I: LOOKING BENEATH THE SURFACE OF LIFEPART II: WE'RE THIRSTY PEOPLEPART III: DIGGING BROKEN WELLSPART IV: CHANGING FROM THE INSIDE OUT"Confusion breeds faith; disappointment drives us to hope; conviction leads to love.
Accept the Bible as your whole truth.Someone typed this book for Dr. Larry Crabb.If I were a "God-loving" Christian man, I'd draft it with a pink marker and fucking type it myself.
This book combines the Biblical teachings of sin and grace with an understanding of human nature from a psychological point of view.
Crabb says we must come to realize that we have longings that will not be met until heaven.
We try to quench our thirst in other ways that God does not want us to use to satisfy that thirst.
Crabb says we shouldn't deny that we have unsatisfied longings or minimize them.
Crabb points out that the problem is the deceitful heart, which demands its way from God, instead of trusting God to provide.
A phenomenal book on what it might look like to be more alive to Christ than to whatever current struggle you might be going through.
He is a psychologist who first follows Christ, is completely in touch with his own need for Jesus and his depravity that is symptomatic of that need, and who carries with him stories of people who will blow you away.
After sharing stories of incredible, literally unbelievable pain, he asks, "What would it look like to be alive to Christ if you were so-and-so?" In struggling and wrestling with this question, the reader is challenged to look inward with purpose: to pray for the desire for change from the inside out.
The last paragraph or so of the book really sums it up - - - -"Confusion breeds faith; disappointment drives us to hope.
The path to maturity requires a commitment to replace false certainty, pretended satisfaction, and smug spirituality with disturbing levels of confusion, disappointment, and conviction, which in turn create the opportunity to develop faith, hope,and love.
And joy." This book is counter-intuitive to what "feel good" Christianity espouses.
I'm still trying to wrap my mind around what it looks like to live this in real life.
Like I mentioned, I'm getting my own copy.
كتاب رائع جدا كعادة د .لارى كراب تجد فيه التبصر والنظرة العميقة جدا لداخل الانسانالكتاب ممتع جدا فى 
It's not often I read a book that reads my mail AND confirms the cry of my heart.
Dr. Crabb has put into words what I have been feeling for a long time.
The understanding of how we relationally keep ourselves safe is probably the biggest hinderance to inner healing, our relationships and the finishing work of the cross in our lives.
I have been through a lot of healing, but there are still places in my heart that are untouched.
But Dr Crabb hit on those places with clarity and boldness.
Why did I not know about this book sooner!!!
Embrace the pain.
Strive for Christ's fulfillment.
You can't get it by praying, bible studying, being good, or anything else but by feeling the pain and allowing Christ to be what you seek.
It was a tough read for me.
A bit lofty, hard to grasp the concept totally but makes some sense anyway.
We long to be made perfect.
Very long read to really make one point.
The author uses tons of sarcasm at first and I can't tell when it is being applied which makes it difficult to know when to take him literally without hearing inflection.
I felt like this book was a little depressing; I don't want to forget the joy that is ours in Christ, nor the understanding that He works everything out for our good.
It was convicting, however, especially as a person who does consider other people's views of her.
I also truly enjoyed the concept of God being sovereign.
We can't "demand," we can only ask with the knowledge that He can do what He wants when He wants, which often doesn't look like what we thought.
God does have it under his control and is working things out for good.
old school l.crabbi read this when i first became a christian. it makes the list of favorites not b/c i have read it recently but b/c of how deeply it impacted me at the time. it was the first book i read that showed me i was not alone in my fear of 'being known' by God and by people. i also realized i didn't have to lie *all the time*... just some of the time. God has been so merciful! i get teary thinking about this book.
This book messed with me and with my ministry presuppositions in a good way. It gives a new and more contextualized vocabulary for dealing with idolatry at the heart level. The sin beneath the sin is always a failure to dare to love due to fear of future disappointments borne out of past disappointments. And so we medicate on good things and their perversions. Lots to learn still from this book.
This has been one of the best books I have ever read. He touches topics that go deep in our soul that the world does not dare to go. It was a blessing for me to read this book. The Lord has showed me more about me and how he created me. It has led me to the place where my hope for full satisfaction is in Christ and his kingdom.
This book had a big impact on my life. It blends Larry Crabb's solid understading of psycholgy with his similarly solid understanding of Christian teaching. This blending results in a very good discussion about how a person can grow their soul.Don't let the Christian foundation disuade you from reading this book, if it might. Persons with a solid, mature spirituality are not put off by someone else's faith perspective. This is a good book.
We all have self-protective devices we employ. This book caused me to pinpoint mine. This is Crabb’s greatest book. A must-read for anyone hellbent on true life change, which only happens from the inside/out.
This is not the type of book I would typically read but he hit on some stuff that I needed to read. Namely, stop avoiding things that hurt and do away with self-protective measures that keep you from feeling. A solid book.
This book deeply touched my heart and my relationship with Christ. It also helped me transform in a time of great change in my life. If requires a large measure of humility and transparency and honesty.
I have been working on my inner self for many years. It is good at making us look inside ourselves and wonder what is next. What I didn't agree with is that we cannot be happy hear on earth. I think we can and will be happy when we honestly love and obey Jesus.
Fairly good book. Deep.
Good weighty read. Convicting about the subtleness of self-protection.
Very insightful and thought provoking. Not a book for those who only wish to skim the surface of Christianity. This book really made me think about the real me.
