https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/608947.The_Complete_Dead_Sea_Scrolls_in_English
A rare look inside an isolationist Jewish cult14 September 2012 I suspect that Vermes is probably the foremost expert on the Dead Sea Scrolls since it seems that every book about it is either written, or edited, by him, but then that is simply an observation that I have made. For those not familiar with these ancient documents they were found hidden in a cave by the Dead Sea in about 1947 by a young shepherd and they have been classified as one of the most significant archaeological finds of the
A rare look inside an isolationist Jewish cult14 September 2012	I suspect that Vermes is probably the foremost expert on the Dead Sea Scrolls since it seems that every book about it is either written, or edited, by him, but then that is simply an observation that I have made.
Basically they are a collection of scrolls written by a Roman era Jewish sect known as the Essenes and among the many non-biblical scrolls they also contain a complete copy of the book of Isaiah and pretty much sections of every other book of the Old Testament, and most importantly, some of these scroll date back to at least 100 BC.
An accessible translation of the Dead Sea Scrolls (DSS).Vermes was a great scholar, well-attuned to Rabbinic texts and thus the history of Judaism, and this is reflected in his treatment of the DSS.
The introduction may be long but it is thorough, discussing the circumstances of the discovery of the DSS, a history of the translation of the DSS, what is to be learned from the DSS, a survey of scholastic opinion regarding the relationship between the DSS and Qumran, and of course a great analysis of the Essene Jewish community at Qumran as reflected in the DSS.
The Prayer of Enosh and Enoch (4Q369) page 511The Book of Enoch (4Q201-2, 204-12) and the book of Giants (1Q23-4, 2Q26, 4Q203, 530-33, 6Q8)
I read this a few years ago but from notes made at the time: I read the first article type bits of the book and then read a few of the translations and skimmed the rest as it was all the 'rule' of the Qumran order rather than alternate gospels etc which would've been more interesting.As this is an old book published in 1962 I imagine knowledge has grown since then.
I've read since that the scrolls were under tight ownership for a long time, and a full transcription was only issued in 1991.
First, I will admit, I did not read this entire book, I used this as a reference guide to accompany a lecture course I listened to from Great Courses on the Dead Sea Scrolls.
I did read the introduction which gives a background of the discovery and significance of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
The bulk of this book however, is the Translation of every Dead Sea Scroll that has been found to date.
I read many of the scrolls as I listened to a Great Course lecture by Professor Gary Rendsburg and it really added to my learning and understanding of these historical finds.
I will always respect the religion of others.We all bleed red.
The "Prolegomena" (which just means the introduction to the texts) was quite helpful to anyone who wants to read the Scrolls with any understanding of who wrote them, when and why.
The system of numbering the scrolls by cave and columns is also explained, which gives the reader a good insight into the archaeological process of discovering such texts.
Each introduction introduces the type and purpose of the text and attempts to situate them in historical context.
If you're into the historical Jesus, I'd say The Dead Sea Scrolls are a must-read.
The translations are mostly well done and readable.However, Vermes was one of the earliest Scrolls scholars, doing initial research on them shortly after their discovery, and he maintained, until he died, some traditional views on the Scrolls which have now become extremely outdated with newer analysis.
Composite translations can be extremely misleading, but Vermes does not take note of the problems.Overall, having a volume such as this is helpful, but it is in severe need of an update by a scholar more in tune with the changes in Scrolls research over the past 15 years.
I was very happy however to see a very early little fragment of the Megillah Esther, which shows that it is not a late invention as many like to claim… and for sure the story has a solid basis and is much older than Christians and Anti-Semitic Zealots say it is.
This was a very interesting book, and I am very happy to have read it.
The volume is an introduction and description of the Essenes, the people responsible for the dead sea scrolls, and provides a description of the scrolls themselves.
For those who may be interested in reading the book, I would have the following warnings: First, the editor operates from a naturalistic/atheistic worldview; that is, he implicitly denies anything supernatural, such as prophecy.
The book only refers in passing to the many biblical books found in the dead sea scrolls, and highlights other writings that would be less familiar.
It's a much more comprehensive edition than the 1950s John Allegro version I read years ago, and it's filled with detailed notes about the Essenes and the scrolls themselves.
My interest was much more in the scrolls detailing their way of life, covering everything from the type of sacrifices to be performed and purification rituals to their relationships with outsiders and their vision of a religious war.I have to admit, I found the Essenes themselves pretty repulsive.
However, it was interesting to think that this was the world in which Jesus was flourishing: his message of brotherhood and caring was very different to that of other religious sects of the time.
A thorough translation of the Dead Sea Scrolls and Damascus Document, with an historical background, and Vermes interpretation of their context in history. The essential guide in discerning an understanding of the Scrolls themselves and the community at Qumran over 2000 years ago.
disappointing
saw them first hand
A bit dry and took some discipline to get through. I enjoyed the commentaries most of all.
totally enjoyed a voluminous and well researched book. my interests range in archeology ancient manuscripts religion and philosophy
In places, the many passages of garbled text-even after methodical and time consuming translation still remain just that....garbled text-just esoteric, disconnected words that might as well have been randomly flung on to the paper, but just when you're about to give up, something magical surfaces…For me, reading of Abram in a document that is nearly 2,000 years old, who speaks in the first person of being separated from his wife, and sobbing long into the night, because he believes the King of Egypt has taken her for his own wife, really struck me.
An unbeliever will not understand this nor will they appreciate these scrolls.O my God, hast sealed them all and there is none to open (them) … Does one measure by the hollow of a human hand the waters of the great (ocean)?
(Fragment 30 of the 511th scroll of the 4th Cave 4Q511 Fr 30)What we have are the religious library of the Essene Jews occupying a religious or scholarly city of Qumran.
These works were hidden in at least 11 caves in the vicinity of Qumran.
So there are original copies of the Bible as known by the Jews in all of the three centuries before Christ, commentaries, peshers (interpretations there of,) and apochrophial works.
Confession time: I only read the 40-page "Prolegomena" and browsed the actual translated scrolls.
] to walk in the ways of God, 13to do righteousness...ANDA summary statement on the nature of the preceding psalm[which I have not appended].Col. 4 1[ ...
While I could possibly manage to make some sense of it from lots of intensive time, I really feel that I would be better served, as would the subject, if I were to have some other people to bounce my sense of the texts off of.
It's too complicated by far.But, one can see, even from the limited reading I did, why these scrolls upset 2000 years of exegesis and interpretation.
This book is a translation of all the scrolls and I was looking forward to reading it.
Then there is a second index - of references to the books in the Bible as they are mentioned in the scrolls.
But generally these indices imply that this is another "inside" academic book - one that is to appeal to researchers on this subject who would be familiar with the numbering system.But where is the index that would link the scrolls to each other?
I was intrigued by the term "watchers," and I would have liked to read all the places that it appears without having to read the entire book looking for them.
Especially the communities emphasis on the priests of Zadok, and a Zadokian deliverer.Other fascinating texts such as the Book of Giants, and various homilies and praises can be as historically rewarding as they are personally edifying.
Moreover, commentaries on various books in the Tanakh make for amazing insight into the communal mind as they labored over the Inspired Scripture, waiting for their deliverance.For the historical religious scholar, to the lay-Christian, this is a collection worth picking up.Brent McCulley
It should be mentioned that this is by no means complete.
I may be mistaken but I had thought that these texts were discovered in the same complex, along with a complete version of the Torah.
It would be wonderful to access to a complete english translation, especially for the purposes of comparison with the Torah.Nonetheless this appears to have some wonderful material including the Temple Scroll and the War Scroll, both of which give amazing details of life in the ancient near east.
Will post pertinent details as I sift through it :)
It's hard not to want to rate something like this very high as the fact that we even have any of this preserved is absolutely amazing.
Much of this work is fragmented but the information given at the start of each book really helps you know where it came from and what is known about the text.
Interesting to note that Gilgamesh is mentioned in one of the works.
Its amazing what history/tradition gets carried into each age.
This compilation is a real treasure and made for a very interesting read.
I am almost OCD about finishing things I start, but this is changing as I grow older and time is speeding up as it runs out.
I give an extra star for the first 50 pages.
And the history is fascinating when put in context of how much importance we put on this tribe of people today and how little we really know about them.
But once the history and the science is over and we are left to read the results...snooze.
I tried to go 50 pages at a time between other books but really, life's too short.
This was something that I bought when I had decided I wanted to read my way through things like this, and then by the time it came round to actually reading it I didn't feel quite as enthused.
BUT, although it certainly wasn't "reading for pleasure" for me, I was pleasantly surprised by the fact that it wasn't as difficult to read or as boring as I was anticipating.
Bits of it are in fact really fascinating!
Obviously its fragmented nature makes it quite difficult to follow at times, and this can be frustrating, but overall it's worth getting stuck in to.
in the documents I've made it through so far, this is really helpful read in framing and understanding the Dead Sea Scrolls and their relevance to understanding the scriptures. Good enough that I'll read the whole thing, even the part that I have not been assigned. . .The authors do a fantastic job of framing each part of the scroll for the readers, and give you a sense of what is really happening in this community, and why you should care. It's a long read, but worth it if you are spending time in this part of history.
This volume was easy to read with large print. Vermes gives an introduction to each text. Many of the dates for the the texts are speculative, so I advise reading Josephus prior to reading the scrolls so you have an understanding of the historical time period. Also, Robert Eisenman's James the Brother of Jesus is a good book to read before tackling the Scrolls. I found studying the scrolls to be very rewarding, especially the thanksgiving hymns and the interpretations of Biblical passages.
I've become somewhat of an expert - as to a reader, that is - on the Dead Sea Scrolls. This summary is not as captivating as that by Millar Burrows - one of the first archaeologists involved with the Bedouin, Kando and Shaia when scraps of velum were offered for sale to the world in 1946/47. The reader is introduced to the Essenes one of three branches of Judaism in the first century - along with the Pharisees and Sadducees. See similarities to the early Christians. You'll wonder if John the Baptist had been an Essene.
A lot more rules and restrictions but completely worth the read. Thoroughly translated by experts in the field. It should be on your "to read" list if you want to have a true understanding of what early Judaism was like and to have any serious discussion about early Christianity. The only thing about this version is that if you’re going to reference from it then becomes rather tricky. One paragraph with only three lines will be sited as "1" and the next paragraph will be sited as "15" so be careful
Not a good introductory text! Make sure you're willing to Wikipedia a bunch of sects, medieval history, and terms (speaking as someone completely new to this subject).It's interesting to see how strict the Essenes were about "purity" and rules, but exhaustive lists make for boring reading. I mostly focused on reading the introductions and explanations of the text than the text itself. I think my favourite part was the "horoscopes".
