https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021580-to-the-far-blue-mountains
Barnabas Sackett returns to England, from America, on a trading trip.
But a man who has never harmed the returnee, Tom warns Barnabas about the Queen's men , ruffians , in fact, and are after him.
Trusted by Sackett, all this just because he found some old Roman coins, the poor man sold them, to pay for his voyage to the new world.
Talk to William, the man who is taking care of his little farm, and then sneak on board his ship, without being caught.
Watkins joins Sackett, America sounds pretty good, better than the gallows, thinks the outlaw .
To the Far Blue Mountains continues the story of Barnabas Sackett.
Indeed, there are signs and hints dropped left and right that other people have been there before - the Vikings, the Irish, the Basques, the Bretons, the Chinese, and more.Part of the appeal of this series (and I suspect I will read them all now) is that I like stories that follow a family or person through time.
I appreciate that.Finally, the fact that rascals and bad actors did not always get what was coming to them contributes to my enjoyment of the book.
The book was written in a very different America.
There's no character arc as Barnabas did most of becoming who he is in the fist book.
Which could have worked fine if there had been a central antagonist, but that didn't happen, either.
Indeed, the biggest problem with the book is that the antagonists are kind of a blur with first one man and then another and another with some of them recurring, but none of them really of enough stature to challenge Barnabas for long.
And on levels I'm a little surprised to see from L'Amour, who I generally consider a superb storyteller.
L'Amour writes the archetypal hero adventure story. It's a bit hackneyed, but also kind of perfect. in this day of flawed heroes and muddied morals a pure hearted courageous hero is refreshing. Plus this hero shares my name, and that's pretty cool.
It's a moment that all but sings with romance and makes the reader want to have been there to sail off with Barnabas, even though that reader knows that yesterday's frontier became today's suburban franchise ghetto and, while there is actually enough for all, the dream of all getting to share in it is far from realized.But it's a great reminder, a book like this, that the American Experiment really was and still is one.
Fantastic read!I've always enjoyed L'Amour's books, but this one seemed exceptionally good! It's more than a story - it's filled with history and statements that make you think. The detail he includes about historical events and places is fascinating! The author gives a vivid depiction of what it must have felt like to arrive in a new, untamed country. Truly a fascinating book! I also appreciated the fact that it was a clean book and suitable even for my 12 year old son.
I enjoyed this book, even as it drove me buggy. Barnabus spends most of the book seeking the far blue mountains...and going everywhere else for most of it. Stuff for him is also a little too easy while doing so, but it's still a good story. I don't like the ending, even as I was expecting it having read the book previously. Still upsets me, but it was handled well and in an interesting fashion to close the book. Well worth your time.
The men are rugged yet sensitive, and the women are rugged and refined.
I have been wanting to read this book for a while because the Sackett series is legendary as one of the best.
I have read some of the later books in the series, but wanted to go back to the beginning of the series.
Don't cross her because she can also handle a musket or cutlass better than most men.
The bottom line, it is a great story, and I look forward to reading more in the Sackett saga as well as other L'Amour novels.
Always something going on.
A little too pure and heroic, with endless pages of it.
Good book on the Greek of the Sackett’s family coming and starting in America. Good reading, but I didn’t care for the ending.
The second issue was, this being a family saga about the taming of the American frontier, WHY IN THE NAME OF LADY GAGA did L'Amour choose to end the book with Barnabas Sackett returning back to England?!This is problematic for two reasons.
That's not to say L'Amour is a bad writer; he just really needs to stick with American characters.After SACKETT'S LAND, I would have been happy to just skip over TO THE FAR BLUE MOUNTAINS in it's entirety, but I'd already bought the three-volume omnibus edition and felt like I had to try to get my money's worth.Unfortunately, I had to give up on this book a third of the way through.
After Barnabas Sackett goes back to England to discover the truth about his father past with the Earl he decides to set his course for America again.
Barnabas is captured and taken to Newgate.
I really liked this book.
A part I found slow was when Barnabas was taken to Newgate.
I do like that the book is from the point of view of Barnabas.
There was some parts while they were fighting that I thought there was a little too much detail like Indians scalping and when Barnabas ripped a man’s cheek.
Barnabas had to fight all the way to America and while he was there.
About a fourth of the way into this book I'm enjoying John Curless's narration but am tired of Barnaby being on the run from the Queen's men.
Barnaby's time in the New World was my favorite part of the first book and I'm looking forward to him finally getting there and moving the story along.FINALObviously, for me L'Amour is someone whose short stories shine and whose novels just don't work.
At least in both the first two Sackett novels there just isn't enough "there" there.
not enough else going on.I'm not writing off all his novels yet.
I realize the Sackett novels just may not be for me.
The continuing adventures of Barnabas, founder of the American Sacketts, L'Amour's most famous family saga.
I think I liked it better than the first book, but Barnabas was still too arrogant, too sure of his destiny, too skilled in things the reader had no idea he knew about.It was frustrating how Barnabas kept exposing himself to his enemies, almost as if L'Amour was just trying to pad out a much shorter story by working in near-captures and daring escapes.I'll give this series one more chance with a book actually set in the Old West, but if it doesn't get better I'm done with the series, and likely with L'Amour.
Louis L'Amour must study a lot of facts before he wrote his books because they are laced with historical events, names, and places.
I want to stop and write down more of these references as I read them the next time through.
I should be doing that the first time through, but right now I'm lucky to get them read at all.
Some day I'll get around to studying all the little side notes I make.
Sometimes I think it is to set the reader up for an event in a following book and sometimes I think it was just because he wanted to add more action.
I typically love Louis L'Amour books but I had a hard time getting through this one. It took me a lot longer than normal. I think its a little too similar of a read to the first book (Sackett's Land). He returns to England, must escape from there as people are searching for him, sets stuff up in the new country, trades, comes upon pirates, indians, etc... It just seemed a little boring. Although I am looking forward to reading the rest of the books in the series, as I think following his children through the stories will be interesting.
I finally read a Louis L'Amour after camping in his hometown three or four times. So I get his appeal, but it was a boring read. Predictable and cliche often enough. Very shallow characterization and plot development. But man was this guy prolific. If you love westerns, I can see just loving to the short quick adventure L'Amour provides. I will probably attempt another of his books at a later time. . . maybe in a few years.
This is my second read of the L'amour masterpiece as I decided to read the entire Sackett Saga. L'amour has the uncanny abilty to transport you through time and space and let you totally immerse yourself in his stories. Barnabas Sackett is the kinda guy I aim to be. Honest, noble, trustworthy, faithful and best of all, an adventurer. I cant wait to see the generation of Sacketts that sprung from the great man and from the mind of Louis L'amour
Another tail of epic, Crockett-esque tall tales. I don't know what's better: Davy Ckockett killing a bear when he was three, of Kin-Ring being born beside a fire in the heat of an Indian battle. L'Amour certainly likes creating legends of his characters, for which I am happily grateful.
Mar/17: reread this again. Love this book. One of my favorites. Jared and I are pretty much continually rereading Louis L'Amour books. Mar/11: Finished reading to my boys. They loved this series.Oct/09: Second time read. I love these first couple of Sackett books. Barnabas Sackett is the man.
"No man ever raised a monument to a cynic, or wrote a poem about a man without faith." —Barnabas Sackett
the author gives you a wonderful view with his writing!!
About two chapters later, we get someone who exclaims how adventurous and forward-thinking Barnabas is and how much in awe of him he stands, but that he can't imagine starting a new life like that.So far, great stuff.
did he NEED a reason to leave since he was ALREADY PLANNING to leave?), the fact that rather than two paragraphs, the trip across the Atlantic now takes like seven chapters (more believable, but more frustrating), and by the time Barnabas makes it to the New World, I found myself not caring.
The second (chronologically) book of the Sackett saga picks up largely where the first, Sackett's Land, leaves off--only now Barnabas Sackett is pursued by the Queen's men due to rumors that he had found a long lost royal treasure.
Sackett assumes that his only chance to escape is to leave England for good and start a new life with his soon-to-be wife, Abigail, and trusted friends Jeremy Ring, Jublain, Sakim, and others in the woods of America.
They clear land, must endure Indian attacks, desertion, pirates, and the like to make a new homestead.
I liked this (and the previous book, Sackett’s Land) much better than I expected - there is a reason L’Amour has had staying power, and that reason is his writing.
His descriptions of people and places are things of beauty.
His circle of friends (and eventually family) are interestingly drawn, and Native Americans are depicted as the threat they were to settlers but not as evil savages - just as a different people trying to defend their territory.
Very glad I read this - only reason it’s 4 stars rather than 5 is the ending felt like it dragged a bit.
I tried to give the series a fair chance because I heard good things about it, but again, as in the first book, the main character (Sackett) is unbelievable in his ability to fight off (and kill) multiple enemies at a time.
I understand that future books are about his sons, and in this book they are all born, but there is no part of the story that focuses on his family life.
All of a sudden, he has six grown sons and a daughter, who we learn nothing about other than their names.
And (spoiler alert), Sackett is killed in the end and I didn't even care.


"Awesome Struggle To American Mountains"This is the continuing saga about Barnabas Sackett's return to England from America to settle affairs for his father.
But he learns there is a royal warrant out on him and every shipping port is being searched.
Queen Bess believes Sackett has more treasures found besides the six gold coins he previously found.
He needs to find a way back to America before being captured.
Most of L'Amour's novels are based on historical facts.
He's one of the greatest storytellers who devoted much time to historical research to enhance his novels.
A classic western author.
Highly recommend.
