https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/335361.The_Complete_Poems
His student in the London cafe, maybe the Cheshire Cheese down the road from the other Johnson's house,Robert Herrick, mastered Jonson's colloquial touch with Latin.
Herrick, the most famous of the Sons of Ben. Ben Jonson, the (adoptive, perhaps?) bricklayer's son.Who killed a man in a duel, and got off because he was literate: "benefit of clergy," a plea derived from the days of Latin and clerical impunity in the civil courts.
By Jonson's time, roughly Shakespeare's career, 1587-1616, a man could get off a murder charge by reading a passage in the English Bible--often the same passage, so occasionally an illiterate may have memorized it and voila!
I had to read less than half of his poems for British Literature class this semester. I was thrilled to be able to read more of them. I have read some of his poetry before but only in Anthologies. In doing so I have only read his more popular pieces. Reading this collection made it so I could read poems that did not find favor in this day. If you like his more popular poems, I suggest reading this collection. You'll be sure to find some new favorites among these.
Parentheses mine:"Inviting a Friend to Supper"Tonight, grave sir, both my poor house and IDo equally desire your company;Not that we think us worthy such a guest,But that your worth will dignify our feastwith those that come; whose grace may make that seemSomething, which else could hope for no esteem.It is the fair acceptance, sir, createsThe entertainment perfect, not the cates.Yet shall you have, to rectify your palate,An olive, capers, or some better salad (ah...the "better salad" always came later in the night, made as it was, on the spot)Ushering the mutton; with a short-legged hen,If we can get her, full of eggs, and thenLemons, and wine for sauce; to these, a coneyIs not to be despaired of, for our money; And though fowl now be scares, yet there are clerks,The sky not falling, think we may have larks.
My favourite poems by Jonson are 'On my First Sonne' and 'To the memory of my beloved Shakespeare...', which are also probably his most well-known. They are both elegies, but somehow the writer's entire personality jumps out of both of them; his ego and the importance of self-presentation, though still present (he represents himself as a king and a judge in the Shakespeare elegy etc.) are humbly and touchingly set aside.
I enjoyed Jonson so much more than I thought I would! He tells poems of manners, but is quite acerbic about it actually, and the classical throwbacks are fun. Never expected to enjoy him as a poet more than as a dramatist!
The odd thing is, that many readers would call these poems versified prose or doggerel or some other time-bound term of derogation. The poems don't mind. They are infinitely patient. Or just indifferent.
I like Jonson's plays better than his poetry.
I always wanted to be that clever.
One of the greatest writers and smoothest tongues in all of poetry. READ HIM.
This is a fantastic collection of Jonson's poetry.
I got my copy of from the School Library, devoured The Underwood practically overnight... I need to get my hands on his plays when I finally have time. Such a joy to discover!
