https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385250.The_Jolly_Postman_or_Other_People_s_Letters
I had forgotten about this book until Phyllis added it. This was one of my daughter's favorites. She LOVED the letters included with portion of the story. The interesting thing is that when we bought the book one of the letters was missing. We wrote to Chinaberry (the company we ordered the book from) and they very cheerily sent the missing letter - along with a personalized letter to my daughter - which then had to be included in the book and in each reading of the book.
The Jolly Postman or Other People's Letters is the first book in a series of three written by Janet and Allan Ahlberg, which follows a Postman in his "uniform of postal blue" on his morning deliveries and is perfect for an Early Years Foundation or Key Stage One classroom.
By including pages shaped as envelopes, Janet and Allan Ahlberg have added the element of curiosity to this book, as it instantly becomes interactive, enabling children to delve into the envelopes to retrieve each letter.Each character's letter has a connection with their traditional story and gives children a new and interesting concept of how traditional stories can be adapted and reconceptualized.
If you've got kids then you'll not go wrong with getting this book, more than just a story, there are letter's, cards, leaflets, catalogues. Any kid will have at least 47minutes of fun with this book.
The book encompasses multimodality and intertextuality flawlessly.
The book is eye catching and young children will be engaged in it because it involves them getting each letter out of the envelopes.
Many activities can be derived from this book, for example, older children can examine the different types of writing that are used.
Using Multimodal books that have pieces of writing for different purposes allows the child to pick up on transcriptional aspects subconsciously.
Some feel that intertextuality can be an interruption to the text however I feel that it allows the child to identify with the story and forces them to stretch their imagination.
This was one of my favorite books as a kid.
It helped teach me about different kinds of mail (junk mail, party invitations, business letters, thank-you notes), and there was the subtle thrill, even for an elementary school kid, of snooping into someone else's mail.
I don't know if it's still possible to get copies of this book, but it should be great even for contemporary kids who will see it as something of a history lesson.
I would've enjoyed all these letters if I were a kid. Need this for future baby xD This was cleverly done, introducing all the characters in wonderful ways.
A creative, unique and interactive book which lets children discover the story for themselves by physically opening letters from an envelope. A great reading experience! The book follows a journey of a postman who delivers letters to characters from traditional fairy tales (who the children should recognise). Could be used to introduce writing for different purposes such as letters, postcards, rhyming.
This book is delightful. I enjoyed the rhymes in the text as well the humor. It was fun to see what letters the postman delivered to each character. So, the interactive part was very enjoyable. The best part of this story was seeing all the loved fairytale characters in this book.
The Jolly Postman must surely be one of the most innovative and interactive books for young children.
As we read the story we accompany the Jolly Postman on his rounds as he delivers post to classic children's characters, all of which happily live within his delivery round.
Enjoy Goldilocks' "Sorry" letter to the Three Bears, a Postcard to the Giant from Jack and, most amusing of all, the writ issued to the Big Bad Wolf by lawyers acting on behalf of both Red Riding Hood and the Three Little Pigs.
I received a lovely handwritten letter from my sister-in-law on my birthday, and it was so personal, contemplative, rare, and different from the usual exchange of emails that it made me recall this wonderful book I read to and with my kids when they were growing up.
I had to dig The Jolly Postman out of my box of saved books to read and enjoy again.
The concept of reading actual letters that can be removed from the envelopes in the book is pure genius.
I'm wishing for more books like this aimed at an adult audience, so I'm off to find and reread my copies of Nick Bantock's Griffin and Sabine!
This is a beautifully nostalgic book that brings together lots of different fairytale stories into one.
Not only is it great and physically interactive with pages made like envelopes for children to pick out and read, it has charming illustrations to support the journey.
I personally think this would be a great book to use in a KS1 for a literacy lesson.
It also can be tied in with subjects like maths or geography with the use of adding prices to the hobgoblin supplies sheet and making a map of the postman's journey.
Overall, I love this book and cannot wait to put it to use in a future lesson!
I have very fond memories of this book from my own childhood, so this review may be a little biased! I think any small person opening this book for the first time would be delighted to find the treasures hiding inside and perhaps, as I have, remember it as an enjoyable reading experience.I would also say that I think this book would be a great one for children who may have shown reluctance or perhaps even their dislike of reading. The interactive nature of this lovely book could help to draw them in and start to engage with the experience.
A perfect book to get kids interested in mail! With letters, cards, postcards, and a rhyming story, it's super charming and fun to read.
What other familiar characters has the Jolly Postman managed to visit on his travels, how has our Jolly Postman’s day been, and who has invited him in for a cup of tea (green tea at that)?I found that this book was very engaging and interactive for children as it includes separate pull out letters which are hid/ tucked behind envelopes on the page.
I also feel it could be stretched further and used in a unit of work about community, including work about our neighbours and/or manners, due to the contrast between the bears and the witch in the story for example.Overall I found this book very entertaining and feel a class would enjoy the engagement and interaction of pulling out the letters and reading them, etc.
I loved, loved, loved this as a kid. It still makes me laugh.
Read this years ago when WW was small. I will bring the Jolly Postman out from storage and give him a re-read.Lovely book!
Easily one of our favourite kids books, my boys spend ages reading all the letters and cards! It's such a sweet, fun idea, and really differentiates it from other children's books.
The different types of mail included within the book are fantastic.
The book therefore educates children on these different forms of communication via The Royal Mail.
All forms of mail included within the book are written the same way they would be in real life.
Therefore, the book's resources are a true reflection of mail and real life for the children to interact with.
This is because children are more likely to engage with the story when they can physically interact with these contents of the book.
It allows the children to feel that they have developed and formed a relationship with the book and the Postman.
I really enjoyed reading this creative book by Janet and Alan Ahlberg which was a hint on fairy tales giving children the interest concept of how traditional stories can be adapted.
This book will make it interactive to young readers because there are tucked into envelopes which are actual letters for children to pluck out.
From my experience of working with children Red riding hood is a very well know fairy tale whereas Hansel and Gretel is not.
This is because each post has a different letter and readers can add a different tone of voice while reading it.
This is one of the best picture books I have read, and one of my favourites I remember from childhood, even though I was probably too old to read it at the time.
I remember the novelty of taking out the letters or the postcards and it was so fun to read.
I don’t think my son will have same memories of the book as I but that’s okay.
This goes into the same category as the books of its times where you had to wear those paper glasses where one lens was red cellophane and the other blue in order to see the image.
This book is extremely exciting for all year groups to read.Each page contains an invitation or letter of some sort, and therefore it is very engaging and encouraging for the children to keep listening/reading the story.Due to the rhyming throughout, children can sing along with the reader or guess what the next rhyming word at the end of the sentence will be.
As there are so many characters’ name there are but not wanting to reveal so you’ll just have to wait to ready it.This book really caught me off guard with the stories but I loved it.
If I would’ve looked at the cover page more I would’ve noticed all the different character, but imp glad I didn’t.
I loved the construction of the pages it was simple but yet nice to hear all the stories all in one.
That doesn’t happen in the real story.The plot there was a lot of different stories but had the same person for every page.
It had so many stories within one but with different plots.
I love the illustrations in this book, they're very unique and interesting for children to look at. I love the rhymes used, although subtle, very effective in demonstrating rhyme to children. The postcards and letters really engage the children and demonstrate addresses and the format of letters.
The Jolly postman is great for traditional tales work - there are lots of different characters from nursery rhymes and folk tales. It's also great for different styles of writing e.g. postcards, advertisements, and letters. It'd be great for years 1-3 because of its interactive element. This also makes it difficult to read out loud, although the rhymes are lovely.
I love the creativity and use of intertextuality in this story.
A delightful story and wonderful illustrations. L and I have read it twice now. He loves pulling the letters out of their envelopes and reading them together. This book is such a pleasure to read!
Childhood interactive favorite
A bit like Each, Peach, Pear, Plum. Has lots of letters inside and rhymes
The story is told in rhyme, creating a flow for the reader to continue however the Ahlberg's incorporate an interactive concept of including pages which are made into envelopes containing the letters to these characters.
The letters include personal letters, cards, advertisement through which a connection is made with the original story of that character yet, a new input is provided.
In recognising the characters from traditional stories, the readers are made to felt like 'insiders'.
This intertext enables the reader to develop connections between their current knowledge of that story and the different concepts addressed in this book.
Love the use of inter-text, as mentioned in Margaret Meek's book "How Texts Teach What Readers Learn." Young children will understand this inter-text due to early exposure to nursery rhymes that are used throughout this book. They will feel like they are sharing a secret with the writer, which is a beautiful feeling!Very cleverly written; love the Ahlberg's book style.
