https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2527472.Misfit
This is actually a fairly uninspiring story, but is close to my heart in that it is an origin story of sorts for Andrew Jackson "Slipstick" Libby, a much beloved character from later Heinlein novels.
This is actually one of my favorite stories in the Future History collection. It was one of Heinlein's earlier works (1939) but as part of the Future History collection, it's actually among the last few (asides from the full-length novels that are part of Future History) I really liked Andrew Jackson Libby and was glad to see him again in Methuselah's Children.
I found it to be simple. A pleasant read, but nothing to get excited about. A very short story about a young and undiscovered talent. Could be the basis of a much larger and complex story, but none was developed as far as I know.Have a GoodReads.
A beautiful ending story about a Mathematical Savant who ends up in a menial and terrible job turning an asteroid into a garden. The language is comically dated, being written in 1939! "Rejecta" and "Straight Dope"!
sweet story of a nerd
Heinlein feels like a short story that was written to flesh out a book.
The story focuses on Andrew Jackson Libby, a member of the Corps who is assigned to help build a space station around Earth.
It’s a rather fun and inventive story, creating the idea of building space stations by recommissioning asteroids.
It’s almost like Heinlein wanted to create Libby for a reason, but oddly enough he never used him for almost 19 years, so it’s not that.
That being said, it’s an essential work of Heinlein if only to add to Methuselah’s Children and Time Enough for Love.
It was a really short story, classic old Heinlein: heavy into the ballistics math and military regimen. That was basically it, an excuse for talking about potential space flight to an asteroid and embellishing the details on the mathematical technicalities and how the whole thing might feel to someone who's never done it. It didn't really have too much of a plot of its own, though the main character does recur in later Heinlein stories. There's no really good reason to read it unless you're really interested in that main character "Libby", specifically Andrew Jackson Libby.
Well, not the BEST of Heinlein, but pretty good! The characters werent as beliveable as other novels by the aformentioned author. The story, as well, was rather short. I could say that it has no future history, but it wouldnt be true. The amount is simply sparse, that's all. It's there, there isnt much, but it IS there. Read it if you like a good, short, sci-fi book every once in a while.
