https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330947.The_Gates_of_Rome
I know that this novel is high on the inaccuracy, but the author made a note in the end anyway.
I'm also currently reading The Thousand Names by Django Wexler, and I'm enjoying it a lot.
Something about the setting and characters really made me enjoy this novel.
I didn't rate this a 5 because it didn't blow me away, unlike the other 5 star novels I've read in the past.
Another note too that this felt a bit like a young adult/coming-of-age kind of novel.
It read more like a historical fiction book, just like it was supposed to.
However, there is little excuse for how he bastardized the competition between Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla.Iggulden portarys Marius as being a populist infinitely younger than he was by the time Julius Caesar was born.
His appearances in the novel after leaving Caesar in Rome have a tacked on feel and do little more than jarringly move the reader from one part of the ancient Mediterranean world to the other.The only part of Iggulden's fictional experiment that works is his secondary characters.
Conn Iggulden vivid imagination and superior prose make of The Gates of Rome a great historical fiction.
Most of Julius Caesar’s growing up years are a mystery, so this is basically a work of fiction.
In a note, Iggulden does mention that most of Julius Caesar's childhood is a mystery to historians.
If you are not looking for historical accuracy, this is an adventure story that will capture your attention and grant a few hours of an entertaining read.The Gates of Rome is the first of four books of the Emperor series that portrays the life of Julius Caesar, from boyhood through to his violent death.
I think in the case of Gaius Julius Caesar it would be even harder to take dramatic licenses and let the author's imagination run free, because he is such a famous figure in history, it is hard to create timelines without being called on it.
So, if you are not stickler for exactness in your history, and if you are in the mood for a fun Fictional Account of that historical period, this is a good book to read!
But because this is historical fiction and I am trained in history, certain things about this book bothered me enough to really lessen my enjoyment of reading it.
But because I know this is going to the same end as the histories, then historical inaccuracies just stick in my craw.****SPOILER ALERT!!!!!!!!!***************OK, my main issues with the book:Marcus Brutus and Julius Caesar did not grow up together.
I mean, sure, it makes it more "dramatic" to have them grow up together like brothers, but it is wrong.
Just like if a book had Lincoln and Jefferson Davis growing up together and was put out as a historical fiction.
The sweetest way to say that I thought it was bad, but maybe it isn't the authors fault.If we were in a relationship, this book and I, I would be saying to it "I want you to know that it isn't you.
Arrogance with historical accuracy is a turn off for me.I read all this author's Ghengis Khan series.
I don't like Roman historical fiction much, but I bought this (used) book based on some decent experiences with that Ghengis series.That is the last time I follow an author into his or her other ventures so blindly.
A good first book in the series but not nearly as compelling as his Genghis series.
The story is good, consistent and well written but it's also a bit boring.
I'll still finish out the series but why does every author write about Rome and this time period in such pedantically humorless tones?
The Khans weren't exactly Comedy Central material and yet there's so much more humor and personality in that series.
Every author who takes on this time period does so in such a monotone fashion.
We need Tyrion to liven them up a bit.
He was very honest in admitting that he didn't know but advised me to walk into a bookshop, pick up The Gates of Rome, read the first chapter then decide whether to replace it on the shelf or buy it.That's almost exactly what I did.
In fact, what I actually did was to buy the whole series and read the books back-to-back.This is the first of a series of four historical that describe the life of Julius Caesar and his best friend, Brutus, from boyhood through to his violent death.
Before I'd finished The Gates of Rome, I'd bought all three remaining books in the series and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend the same course of action to any friend.
Review of the audiobook narrated by Robert Glenister.Even though I love history and historical fiction, I've never found Roman history interesting.
This is not that novel.I love that with historical fiction you can get transported to a different place and time, but in this book if you renamed the people and places you would have a hard time figuring out where the book was even set.
I even had a hard time telling the two main characters apart - they were interchangeable for most of the book.
In short, there were no redeeming qualities about this book.I absolutely loved Robert Glenister's narration of the Comoran Strike series.
Not much to say about this one. Way too much of a kid-gloves YA vibe and outright fucking with history. Iggulden's excuses in the author's note don't do it for me. His Genghis series seems to be a billion times more well-written and cognizant of historical fact.
Really happy with this book - I see many have slammed the story of historical inaccuracies, so I think its fair to read this as fiction based on history, rather than in any way accurate.
Nonetheless the story is pretty strong and what I especially liked was the vividness of the prose.
Second the prose was occasionally clunky, engaging in head-hopping and at times during combat requiring a reread to reduce confusion.In the end I really liked how easy it was to grasp the action and story-line of the novel.
The Gates of Rome by Conn Iggulden, narrated by Robert Glennister. A Blackstone Audio book. Volume #1 of the Emperor Series. This a historical fictiion novel of the Roman Empire at the end of the Republic era and the beginning of the Kings era. Well written, the story comes alive and is difficult to put down. Iggulden has really done his homework as the events in the book match the historical timelines. This is my first of Iggulden’s books and not the last. I highly recommend it.
The first of the 'Emperor' series. This one is Ceasar and Brutus, one the honored son the other the adopted bastard, growing up on a farm outside of Rome. Thats right, you heard me. This series of books creates a completely new Ceasar narrative, one that only vaguely tracks the actual history. Unfortunately, one might say. There is little authenticity in this series. If that doesnt bug you then its a nice pulp read for a sunny day.
Colleen McCullough adopted this line in her series of novels about the principal characters at the end of the Roman Republic, and therein Aurelia is portrayed as exceedingly smart, independent, and a powerful influence on her precocious son.
He has Sulla sparing Caesar because he divines something special in him, saying "there may be two of Marius inside him".
In addition, nothing in the historical record suggests Sulla and his men killed Marius during Sulla's first march on Rome.
It's much more interesting reading and I think he did excellent work in richly developing numerous characters in all five of these historical novels.
This was a damn good read that I thoroughly enjoyed.
The answer to that particular mystery was 'Marcus Brutus'.
It's a really well written book and very character driven, which drives you along in this page turner.
It's not really a 'stand alone' read, as you'll want to know more, much more.
But it is a damn good and interesting read on one of the world's greatest ever leaders and his life.I finished this book over a week ago and have already begun, and finished, the second one in this series 'The Death of Kings'.
The characters lift right out and it could honestly have been set anywhere and any time.The only character I found slightly tantalizing was the slave girl Alexandria; there is potentially an interesting story there, but I'm not particularly inspired to read the rest of the series.I think the reason why Fraser, O'Brian and Bernard Cornwell work so well is that they don't write fictionalised accounts of historical figures; they create a fictional hero and weave them into history.
Sulla seems a very interesting character, so a trip to the library is probably in order.
I decided to go back to the beginning of this series after having read and enjoyed the final book which was about Augustus, not Caesar. Unfortunately, I wasn't really interested in the young Caesar and his friend Marcus. I would rather read about the politics and intrigues of Rome (relayed in an historically accurate way to the extent possible) rather than the constant fights and battles in this book. If the next book of the series doesn't improve, I'm done with it.
If you look at people's reviews of this book you will notice that how someone likes it depends on how much or what they've read on the subject.
Those of us who have read Colleen McCullough's wonderful series on Rome (starting with "The First Man in Rome") are not impressed by "The Gates of Rome".
No such luck.Gaius Julius Caesar in this book is a cipher with no real personality.
His uncle Marius (related in a totally different way from in McCullough's books, but I have no way of knowing which of them is right) comes off better.
I enjoyed the first half of the novel.
It's a crime.One of the worst examples is, (view spoiler)[we find out at the end of the novel that Julius' best friend growing up is really Brutus!
Julius was 15 when Brutus was born!
(hide spoiler)]I can tolerate some deviation from the historical record; it's all a matter of degree.
I cannot tolerate what Iggulden has done here.
I've enjoyed his Conqueror series, but I won't read any more of his novels.
It's a shame, because I've been looking forward to his upcoming series about the Wars of the Roses.
how much do I love these sort of books?I started with Conn Iggulden when my wife bought me Wolf of the Plains for me to read on a flight to Berlin last year...
needless to say I loved it.I bought Gates of Rome form Tesco [on offer] and read it in few days...
I loved that too....
does this man write books that are esy to read?
it's outstanding.I am not claimimg that Iggulden is some sort of literary genius - far from it - but what he does do, he does well.
My first real trip into historical fiction other than the works of Jeff Shaara has turned out to be very enjoyable.
This novel takes the stories of Ceasar back to his beginning and paints an spectacular picture of two young men growing up on the edge of Rome and the beginning ofr their rise to positions of power.
I was unable to put it down and was drawn into the glamour and decadenceof ancient Rome and the rot and corruption festering at the heart of the great Republic.
If the Roman Empire is facinating to you, espically Ceasar's rise to power, then this is a book to watch out for.
Really? Even ignoring the fact that it's written like a Boy Scott tie in novel for 12 year old boys with ADD, the "history" in this book makes the movie 300 look like a historical documentary from national geographic. I understand changing things for fiction but this is just ridiculous. It's like a world war II novel were Hitler and Churchill grew up as childhood friends on a oil rig. First time in 20 years I haven't been able to finish a book.
Historically it's a mess. There is virtually no character development. The writing style is pretty pulpy with non-stop action and it's an easy escapist read. There are other Roman series out there far superior. Iggulden may improve as he writes more books, but he's not my 'cup of tea' from this one and I have no desire to read any more of his novels.
This book covers a a very meaty subject and probably doesn't use enough pages to do it. The characters were poorly developed and were their relationships. I didn't connect with anyone and couldn't see how any of them actually connected with each other. Too bad because it had great potential.
While I'm glad people are still showing interest in ancient Rome, don't we have enough fictionalizations of Julius Caesar?
However, it is just sexy enough (not porny, but sexy) that, as a teacher of middle school boys, I don't feel comfortable recommending it to them.
The treatment of male sexuality vs.
female sexuality kind of bothers me.
It is good for Caesar to have lots of random meaningless drunken sex before he gets married; he feels he wouldn't be ready for marriage without all that experience.
Dude, Roman history is bad-ass enough.
What a disappointment!
After first acquainting myself with this author through his Genghis Khan "Conqueror" series, I had high hopes.
They were quickly dashed.
It's amazing how a book about the early life of Julius Ceasar could be boring.
He is an incredibly influential historical figure, he's even got a month named in his honor!
Perhaps the rest will be better.
I have the second book in this series that I got for free, and I will probably read it.
This however, was a total dud.
Everything moved incredibly slowly and the violence, wars and intrigue just blended together in an unappetizing mess.
(hide spoiler)]I usually like a book with strong female characters and I think this book delivered on it - Alexandria is a wonderful addition to the novel (it's interesting that she is called Alexandria - when Alexander the Great conquered many cities in the East, he used to call them all 'Alexandria' after himself.
I just don't think I was feeling it - there was a lot of intense dissection of what makes a man "a man" and how his brutal force of killing and strength makes the Empire great and impenetrable.
I've previously read seven of Iggulden's books and have given them all 4-5 stars but this was just not in the same league.My main issue was that there was no character development whatsoever.
I kept thinking our MC was a loser and then he'd do something amazing and I'd realize the author expected me to know he was a badass now but somehow I'd missed all that.
He was a badass.
My second issue was the YA feel of this book.
It wasn't the 'special snowflake' young adult vibe but more of an 'oversimplified everything' vibe.
And isn't this meant for an adult audience?
What really happened in the course of history might some times be as dry as a desert.
This is the stance that Conn Iggulden adopts for his retelling of the story of Gaius Julius Caesar.Caesar's legacy is one that attains mythical status as time flows by.
The life of Caesar as a young boy is quite skectchy in details and Iggulden indulges his artistic freedom to create an image of the man who is equal parts prophesied wonder-boy and debonair playboy who tries to get inside every other woman's trousers.He is yet to develop his fearsome reputation.
If you are a lover of history as it is, then Colleen McColough or Robert Graves would be the authors for you.
Okay, so I get that many people are upset with this book, and I will be the first person to agree that it is NOT historically accurate.However, I chose to ignore this while reading the book.
And this book was definitely entertaining.It starts off describing Caesar's early life in his home outside Rome.
It all takes place within the context of the civil war between Marius, Caesar's uncle, and Sulla.I'd like to point out that Sulla is one of the hottest antagonists I have ever read.
(hide spoiler)]All in all, it was a very entertaining, fast-paced book that gives a good holistic view of Roman life.
