https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49187.Gifts_Differing
My encounters with Isabel Myers had the most profound effects upon my view of human nature and contributed more than any other professional to the directions of my life work as a counselor exploring and writing about increasing self-acceptance and about gut instinct and feeling as an intelligence of self awareness.
It was through trying to understand our own typology that my colleague Robert Sterling and I developed the Somatic Reflection Process, for which we will be forever grateful to both Isabel Myers and Dr Mary McCauley, director of the research at the Typology lab.If you are studying education or any field of psychology or counseling, this is an important book to read.
I am SUCH a Meyer's Briggs nerd and I don't even carepls comment your types down below I'm curious!! (for ref: ya girl is an intj/infj)
The first book I read (probably 25 years ago) that helped me to know there was not something wrong with me just because I was different from the rest of my family (I'm an INFP). It still has a lot of good insight for me as I review it.
A person's type potentially tells you so much about his strengths and weaknesses, his predispositions and disinclinations, that for people in sales or customer service, this book will prove a gold mine, certainly well worth the investment in time.Myers talks about attitudes and functions as though they were traits, characteristics you can have more of less of; her theory, though, posits that they don't vary like traits, but exist in terms of either/or (either introverted or extraverted, perceiving or judging).
I highly recommend this for individuals interested in Myers-Briggs typology (here's a test if you want to take one.) Ever since about my junior year of high school I've researched MBTI independently but this book sharpened my knowledge - after all, it was written by one of the creators of the personality inventory.
Reading this will clarify common misconceptions, such as how the individual letters are not as important as the cognitive functions behind them.The second part of the book provides more practical knowledge about how these types affect employment, education, and other realms of the human existence.
Because I'm totally not a card-carrying MBTI nerd. Definitely not.

Love the insight and practical advice given in this book.
An example that I will share is that I am an intuitive person and struggle speaking to the sensing type.
1.) Say explicitly, at the start, what you are talking about; 2.) Finish your sentences; you know what the rest of your sentence is, but your listeners do not; 3.) Give notice when changing the subject; 4.) Don't switch back and forth.
200-201)I love reading this, knowing that is exactly what I do, and that it may irritate the sensing types.
However, sensing types also need to read this to see what they do that may be taking the wrong way by others as well.
I am totally obsessed with the Myers-Briggs Personality Type Indicator, and this is written by the original creator of the test.
As someone who likes to understand how things work (which is very N of me, natch!), I loved reading about the interplay between the four different parts of a personality type (Introvert/Extrovert, Intuitive/Sensing, Feeling/Thinking, Judging/Perceiving).
Basically, if you're at all interested in Myers-Briggs (or have taken the test), this book is a quick, easy read with a lot of fascinating information about the philosophy and structure behind the system, as well as more extensive detail around each element and type.
In my estimation, if everyone read this book we'd all be better partners, co-workers, managers, spouses and parents.
It's given me a lot to think about in terms of my own life and how I can better communicate with others and strengthen my lesser developed processes (like Feeling...boy, I could use some work on that!)The only thing that kept this book from being 5 stars were that a couple of the chapters on children seemed to be more focused on general positive parenting techniques than on anything having to do with specific personality types.
Overall, an excellent read!
To me the book seemed to be divided into two sections.The first half deals with breaking down the personality into 8 components comprising of four sets of two,which are then assembled into the 16 basic types according to preferences of use.The theory is verified by extensive testing and the results presented in tables.
On the whole,the book is understandable and written in an 'accessible to all' manner without betraying its academic qualities.If you are at all interested in human behaviour and interaction and wonder why certain people seem to operate from a totally different standpoint which you conflict with, then this book will be a valuable tool to aid your understanding of human nature.
ENFP here!I delved into this after reading "Please Understand Me" by the Keirseys which offered the test and scoring, which is imperative to understanding the classic Briggs Myers personality types.I love that stuff!
I suppose, primarily, because my resulting personality type was dead on.
It made complete sense and was completely eye-opening.I would only recommend this book if you already know your jungian based personality type, otherwise it is rather reading about a candy that you've never tasted, much less heard of.I checked this book out of the library, as well as Keirsey's books, and renewed so many times that I was banned from borrowing it again.It wasn't like people were standing in line for it...
Insightful,intriguing and incredibly thought-provoking; I can't get enough of this theory! A thorough analysis based on decades' worth of research and investigation, Gifts Differing provides a logical, statistical evidence for the validity of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator. Discussed are the factors contributing to the development of each type, ranging from the somatic to the socio-environmental. Throughout this book, Myers paints a detailed summary portraying the essence of each type by referring to the key procedures involved: the perception and judging processes of the mind.
This book was incredibly insightful! While I've come across much of its contents online, I believe I now have a clearer grasp of MBTI and its power to help the individual harness his/her gifts and appreciate the gifts of others.
MBTI finally makes sense now.
The four preferences S-SensingN-IntuitionT-ThinkingF-feelingthese four basic preferences that produce certain values, needs, habits and traitsST, SF, NF and NTExtraversion and introversion: A preference for extraversion(seeing life in terms of the external world) or introversion(greater interest in the inner world or ideas) is independent of your preference of sensing, thinking, intuition and feeling.
As a less common type, introverts may, not surprisingly, feel some pressure to be something they are not, and the MBTI allows them, perhaps for the first time, to feel it is OK to be who they are.
:) Some parts of the book I found relatable/ insightful/ useful/ applicable: 1) "Just as thinkers may attain, on occasion, a very useful supplementary development of feeling that does not interfere with their thinking judgements, so too the feeling types may sometimes enlist their thinking to find the logical reasons needed to win a thinker's acceptance of a conclusion they have already reached by way of feeling." (p66)2) "Sensing provides the facts, and after the introverts' characteristic pause for reflection, their judgement accepts the responsibilities." (p102)3) "Thinkers, for instance, notice the lack of logic in a feeling type, and they tend to underrate the other's judgement because it is not logical.
When they disagree with feeling types, thinkers may state their disagreement so forcefully and bluntly that the feeling types feel attacked; this makes agreements or cooperation impossible.'Take the message a T to a F for example (F is questioning whether T minds F go for a catch-up with his friend instead of Wednesday dinner with T)"I do mind if you go, as the Wednesday dinner was pre-arranged a few weeks ago.
The reaction from F was of course quite shocking and confusing to a T, as she wasn't even thinking about how others will feel to read a message like this.
The ones we read today are littered with someone asserting their own opinion as fact, including personal anecdotes as if they are somehow enough to back up an assertion.This book does not do that.
Since few others are so interested in MBTI that they will read this, I will be sharing parts of it with others when discussing MBTI.Give this book to any MBTI skeptic, and that person will at minimum have to concede that the creator did not intend it to be "abused" by putting people into "boxes," as some have done today.
Isabel Briggs Myers brings forth all the information needed to understanding ourselves and other human beings, for we have different visions and understandings of the world and ourselves, so we have different gifts that we all can legitimately claim and use to their fullest after recognizing them.
Our different gifts must be accepted and praised, this especially holds true for those whose functions are underestimated or overlooked in society.
If you want to build a better world or understand people in-depth, read this book that’ll give you insights you never thought you’d have the chance to get to know.
It's really helpful in indicating what type you are, how you should interpret the information given and also packs some powerful indications about communication and career.
I would have liked to see perhaps more studies and information about the career of the 16 types and also more details about how to identify yourself better.
Learning is also a crucial aspect in human growth so I think a bigger section in this area personalized for all of the types would have been well received.Other that that, I only have good things to say and I wholeheartedly recommend it to everyone that wants to know more about themselves and how to better integrate and perform in this world.
I loved this book because it was so clear in explaining exactly what kind of personality types the author puts forth.
While there are several other ways to type personality that also reliable, i find this one the easiest to follow for myself (ISTJ).
I think that every human being should read this and learn more about themselves to be able to better function and relate to others.
I think every parent should read this in order to relate to their children better.
I think at the least, that every teacher should read this so that she can relate better to her students.
This book was life-changing for me. I don't often feel that way about non-fiction. Understanding how I am wired is affirming and helpful - one of those light-bulbs moments. Understanding that other people, particularly family and close friends, are wired differently was just as eye-opening! Identifying differences in people doesn't always make them easier to live with but it makes it easier to change your expectations and show empathy, and easier to talk about. I wish everyone could have this knowledge in their brain so they would see that other people truly are different from themselves and that is okay.
A classic book on typology, and an important read to differentiate between functions, attitudes, and the completely separate area of character trait models.
I'm particularly happy to have read this book again now that I'm working through Hunziker's book (Depth Typology) that links archetypes to function-attitudes.
Bottom line, this book and all of the work that has built upon it help me understand the people around me, especially people who meet the world in ways that "annoy" me or who I struggle to communicate clearly with.
In my experience typology is a took for learning to get along with myself and others.
I've been fascinated by Myers-Briggs types for years, and I am so glad I finally read this book.
It is amazing that two woman with no formal training in psychology came up with the most widely used personality test in the the world, all based on Jung's theories (which are from what I've heard are hard to understand for psychologists who have devoted their lives to studying his work).
The theories helpful not only for discovering your own personality type, but for understanding how other people think.
I would also use it as a writing resource, for information on developing different types of characters.
"The" text book on Myers-Briggs Personality Types. I eat up everything "personality-psych," so loved wandering through the deep explanations of types and specific functions, and how those functions can play out across different circumstances and between different types. The text also includes practical methods for continuing to develop your type, and to work with those of differing types. Validating, educational, and classic.
One of the better books I've read concerning personality type. It is a very warm book, not clinical at all, and takes the tone of a friend wanting to impart beneficial wisdom. I'm a believer in the MBTI and this is the first book I've read from the original creators (other than Jung). Helped me to understand myself and others much better. I truly feel the authors gave this to us all as a gift.
Myers Briggs personality explained in a very readable form. Perhaps too much detail for some personality types...but chapters can be skipped if not interested. Biggest learning is teams (or marriages) need to be diverse for best decisions but not too diverse. If people develop well over time they recognize and work on their less natural sides when the situation needs it. Some on parents affect, marriage, teams etc. Understanding type can definately help make better career choices.
A rather deeper than average book on the Myers-Briggs personality type system. The book looks at how and why we develop, with insights into characteristics, inherent preferences, and observed generalities. Not really a good introduction to personality typing, but well worth reading for anyone wanting to understand the functions a bit better, and to know something of the history of the Myers-Briggs system.
MBTI has helped me better understand myself and why I have always struggled to “fit in.” The typing has given me greater confidence in myself and my abilities. Reading this book helped me understand the theory behind it; the influence of jungian concepts. Truly fascinating. Watch out world, I now know how to type you!
