https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385078.The_Two_Faces_of_January
3.5-stars “Somewhere outside, there was a cat fight. Chester saw two mangy cats fighting on the edge of a roof, clinching in battle, falling over the edge together.” (No spoilers)American Rydal Keener (25), has a chance encounter with two fellow Americans in an hotel in Athens, and due to a spur-of-the-moment action on the part of young Rydal, their fates become linked. A crime had been committed by conman Chester MacFarland (42), and his young wife Colette assisted him. Rydal allows himself to
But is that the real reason for his actions?Soon the die is cast, and Rydal enters into a symbiotic relationship with the MacFarlands.
There is no real reason for Rydal to remain with the MacFarlands, so what possessed him to do what he did, and what is his motivation or agenda?
Or is it Rydal who has a hold on Chester?
Rydal is facing his past and is trying to come to terms with it through his relationship with the MacFarlands; Chester is looking to his future back in the United States.
Realmente me ha encantado! Es la primera novela que leo de esta autora y no sabía qué podía encontrarme y, con sinceridad, he disfrutado mucho! Supongo que lo que más me ha gustado es el leer sin tener idea de cómo terminaría todo...
I feel like reviews of this book are expected to mention a movie and Tom Ripley, so let's get it out of the way, blahblahblahblahblah Viggo Mortenson, blahblahblahblahblah Tom Ripley.Except, this was published after the second Ripley book and in Rydal Keener it feels like Highsmith has written an extension of his early character, almost as if she is playing with ideas for future Ripley adventures in a manner similar to the way Simenon worked with Maigret to help clarify his bigger ideas for his more serious work.
He amuses himself by playing games of chance, and starts to include the American couple, so uncannily reminiscent of those people from his past, in his latest scheme even if he is unsure quite what it might be yet.Rydal is a particularly Janus-like character, looking both to the past and to the future.
As in her 'Talented Mr Ripley', she describes a world of European exoticism, as her characters tour the sun-drenched Mediterranean; the novel was published a year after its American author had permanently relocated to Europe.Highsmith keeps the reader guessing about the games these three con artists might be playing.
Εντυπωσιακή και περίπλοκη ιστορία. Μια κλασική Χαισμιθ
3d-rate Highsm makes a terrible movie.
In fact, milady is vastly overrated.
Hitchcock brought her attention w "Strangers on a Train." He altered huge chunks of the novel, which one must do, and then added ingenious Hitchery "moments." In 1961, French director Rene Clement made a sssh!
hot & sexy film version of "The Talented Mr Ripley," which was called "Purple Noon." It pushes aside the bloated Minghella paraphrase w the young and gorgeous Alain Delon as Tom Ripley -- not to be missed.I dumped "2 Faces" after reading...argghhh...but was curious to see this film, which is the amateur hour - lousy direction, lousy script, and down-syndrome casting.
Do I make myself clear?
Two con men , young Rydal Keener living on the cheap while looking for adventure and Chester MacFarland a racketeer fleeing the U.S. accompanied by his young beautiful wife, cross paths in Athens and become entangled in an ill fated triangle of crime and romance.
This Best Foreign Novel Award(1964) winning book is the early work of Patricia Highsmith who was an acclaimed English mystery and suspense writer most famous for her ( The Talented Mr.) Ripley series .
My copy is the reprint ( 2014) which accompanied the movie release by the same name.
There's a film of "The Two Faces of January" out this month, starring a favourite of mine, Viggo Mortensen.
I'm also getting to the end of the Ripley books that Patricia Highsmith wrote (although I'm trying to ration myself with the last one, as there won't be any more!).
So time to try some of her other books.I just love her writing style, it's not overly verbose and and there is always plenty of action and humour.
The Two Faces of January is like reading about another Ripley in another city.
An enjoyable read and now I can't wait to see it at the cinema.
Bettie's Books
The characters in this book, The Two Faces of January, were very very bad people.
This is where the character development comes into play -- in the beginning, they seemed like normal people.
Janus was also the god of ending wars and conflicts, and this played a major part in the book (see spoiler).And back to the topic of relationships, the idea of love changing judgement was also a major point.
I think that the relationship between these characters was skewed a little from the beginning, but it becomes to develop into the same relation that Rydal and his father had anyway.
I can understand why do many authors site Patricia Highsmith as an inspiration. This novel was filled with twists and turns in it's mad dash through Greece, yet still it managed to keep a second, simpler storyline moving along nicely. The story became a bit convoluted in the latter parts but the last line nailed it.
This is the first novel of hers I read and it certainly fits that reputation, as it functions just as well as a gripping tightly plotted crime thriller and a philosophical exploration of three desperate fates crossing paths with terrible consequences for all involved.The plot revolves around an American businessman and his wife who are on vacation on Greece while they're under investigation for fraud back home.
especially not when the businessman's wife falls in love with the lawyer, who shows himself a much more competent man.The first thing to stand out about the storytelling is that there is no clear protagonist/antagonist pattern.
Con artist Chester MacFarland is wanted by the police back in America, but here in Greece, he feels free to roam with his young Colette.
This accident has brought the three together but is this for the best or is there something else at play?Patricia Highsmith is often referred to as the queen of suspense and The Two Faces of January does not do anything to contradict this.
In The Two Faces of January, Highsmith creates a love triangle that is actually interesting to read about.
There is the homoerotic relationship between Chester and Rydal and Colette is also quite taken by this young law graduate.
"Eram muitas as coisas sensatas que poderia fazer...mas não fazia nenhuma delas."Chester MacFarland viaja para a Europa com a sua muito mais nova e bela mulher, Collette, mas em vez de apreciarem o que a Grécia tem para lhes oferecer e usufruírem do tempo livre para descansar, veem-se envolvidos numa trama que envolve morte, troca de identidades, perseguição e fuga.
Contudo, para pior ou melhor não estão sozinhos: Rydal Keener irá acompanhá-los durante todo o percurso.A história do livro "As Duas Faces de Janeiro" é contada em capítulos que alternam entre os pontos de vista dos dois homens.
Por um lado, ele é jovem, tem um bom coração e tenta fazer o que está certo.
Patricia Highsmith did well with this book! A good con artist story. This is set in Greece, and reminds me of her Tom Ripley stories!
No entendía para dónde iba la historia, hasta que sucedió el primer asesinato y pensé: "Ésta es la Highsmith que yo conozco". Y a partir de ahí la lectura se fue suave, suave.
El otro es un joven que está de ocioso y que termina metido en todo el lío por actuar de forma no muy lista (y movido más bien por alguna clase de complejo freudiano).
La tensión y la paranoia se irá acumulando en ambos a medida que tratan de ponerse en el lugar del otro y de mantenerse siempre un paso delante, al punto que uno no sabe realmente cuál de los dos va a salir bien parado, si es que alguno lo hará.Muy buen thriller de Highsmith, mostrando como en muchos de sus otros libros su capacidad de crearle todo un perfil picológico a sus personajes.
Avevo già visto il film, tempo fa, che fornisce una versione dei personaggi e dei fatti più verosimile; il libro, a suo modo, è più realistico :)Si parte con una situazione improbabile, ma col procedere della vicenda ci si immedesima nei protagonisti, nelle loro bassezze e meschinità, e si fa il tifo per entrambi. Legge e polizia sono sullo sfondo, presenze sgradevoli da evitare il più possibile.Per dei criminali della domenica non è facile.Il pentimento a volte affiora, ma non certo per rigurgiti morali o scrupoli di coscienza.Ora non mi resta che affrontare Stranieri in treno e poi Carol.
Bueno este es el primer libro y no va a hacer el ultimo libro que lea de esta de esta mujer, Patricia, nos introduce en una historia llena de miedos, mentiras, erotismo, y de buenas y malas decisiones, con un unos personajes tan reales, que tanto sus decisiones, y sus pensamientos, no van a catapultar a una historia sorprendente, donde los recuerdos, y las comparaciones, puede acabar con nuestras vidas.
P. Highsmith'i polisiye yazarları arasında benzersiz kılan şey, insanı temelde irrasyonel bir varlık olarak ele alıp işleyebilmesi. Roman karakterleri, sık sık yapmaları gerekenin tam tersini yapıyorlar ve yazar bunları yapabileceklerine inandırıyor sizi. Böylece hikâye beklenmedik yerlere savrulup duruyor. Highsmith'in en parlak eserlerinden biri değil belki ama ustalık dolu.
Rather to my surprise, I discover this is the first Highsmith I have read, though I'm certainly familiar with the names of her more celebrated works, "Strangers on a Train" and "The Talented Mr. Ripley."Curiously, I found myself "over-reading" this at first.
That was particularly true of the young man, Rydal Keener, who gets himself mixed up in a homicide for what seems like no reason at all.
I've never been through the Corinth Canal, but I most certainly have experienced the thrill of getting up at an unusual time to see some strange and wondrous sight, such as passing through that canal.
There is 42 year old Chester, his 25 year old wife Colette and 25 year old Rydal who, after college, is spending a couple of years bumming around Europe.
Rydal sees Chester as a dead ringer for his father (whom he hated); Colette reminds Rydal of a cousin with whom he had a sexual affair at the age of 15.
They flee to Crete where the bizarre triangle begins to nibble away at itself.
Rydal and Colette, of course, begin a titillating, if unconsummated affair.
For Highsmith, in Two Faces of January, psychology trumps plausibility at every turn.

I had not read her work before so was not prepared for the tedious tale that stretched over hundreds of pages and could have been told in 50.
Only Chester has some validity and reason for acting the way he does.
But the story is so-o-o-o-o slowly told that I skipped and skipped and skipped over Rydal's and Chester's inner ruminations and still kept track of the plot.
I consider this hours of my life wasted and won't be picking up another Highsmith book.
My Life with Frank Zappa by Pauline Butcher)
Overall I enjoyed the book. I originally saw this in a movie preview, thought to myself, it must be a book... and, of course, it was. I had never heard of Patricia Highsmith, so now I look forward to reading some of her other books, get a feel for her. I picked this book up from the library and had it read in a matter of days. All around good murder mystery, loved the plot and now I get to watch the movie (which is never as good as a book!!)
Patricia Highsmith never fails to surprise me.  The story starts in Athens where Rydal Keener is waiting to get bored enough to want to go back to the U.S.Walking through the hallway of the hotel, he encounters a man trying to drag a body down the hall. Interesting! He gets involved in helping Chester and his wife. You will have to read it to find out why.
The plot, the characters and the atmosphere reminds me of the Ripley books. A bit slow around half way, but speeds up towards the end. I would recommend it for summer reading, especially if you are traveling to Greece!
Classic Highsmithian themes: two men mirror each other, fuelled by guilt and mysterious compulsion. Exotic European locations. Crime and death unpredictable, with unpredictable results. Very readable, but still not one of her best, I don't think.
Ausnahmsweise eine Anmerkung zur Ausgabe vorweg: Es ist dem Diogenes Verlag nicht hoch genug anzurechnen, daß er seit 2002 die Mühe auf sich nimmt, die Werke der Grande Dame des Psychothrillers und jener Chronistin der Entfremdung des Einzelnen in der Moderne - Patricia Highsmith - nicht nur neu übersetzen zu lassen und damit auch dem deutschsprachigen Publikum erstmals wirklich ungekürzt zur Verfügung zu stellen, sondern jedes einzelne Buch auch mit einem ebenso kundigen wie informativen Nachwort des Herausgebers Paul Ingendaay zu versehen.Und eben dieses informiert den Leser der ZWEI GESICHTER DES JANUAR, daß dies Highsmiths in den Verlagen umstrittenster Roman war.
It's not really a bad book and I never felt the urge to stop reading, but the motivation of the characters in no way justifies the stakes or risks to the characters.
The bad guy eventually gets his comeupance, but the protagonist really has almost no hand in it.
The protagonist is actually intentionally saving the bad guy over and over again.
In fact, the book starts by the protagonist coming upon a murder and deciding to help a total stranger out by hiding the body.Why?
The murder kinda looks like his Dad did twenty years ago.
ick!!!Should you read it?
