https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99219.The_Butlerian_Jihad
We will delve into the most ancient records, into the very myths of Dune, into the time of the Great Revolt, more commonly known as the Butlerian Jihad.
Such events led to the birth and life of Muad'Dib.If that passage doesn't make you extremely excited, then you've either not read all the Dune books that came before this, or you didn't enjoy them.
I cannot remember having read of an event so hallowed and revered and shrouded in mysteries and legends as this.This book has plenty of flaws, is more of a dystopia than an epic sci-fi, and is far from the quality of the best Dune books.
The seven dollars I spent for this book would have been better used buying a cup of battery acid to pour into my eyes.More detailed ranting here.
Needless to say, I was both insulted and bored to tears with this work, and aside from thinking I'd wasted good money on it, I began to seriously worry about the direction these two were taking with the Dune franchise.First of all, the characters were one-dimensional cliches, the kind of cardboard cut-out heroes and villains you'd expect to see in children's cartoons.
And the good guys are so saccharine and perfect that it makes you want to barf.The evil thinking machines are no better.
An abomination that should never have been written - which is true of all that Herbert Jnr and Anderson have contributed to the Dune series. Putting aside the pedestrian writing, the authors have failed entirely to capture the complexity of Frank Herbert's universe, characters and ideas. They seem incapable of subtlety. Nothing is implied. Everything is stated. They do tell a story but with none of the sophistication of the original. Life is far too short to be wasted reading this money-spinning insult to the memory of Frank Herbert.
Buddy Read with Markus! Nothing's impossible.
Thou shalt not make a book in the likeness of a Dune.Didn't any enterprising Iranian cleric even consider a fatwa? And, by the way, "to-read" actually means "not to read, unless threatened with waterboarding, stress positions, dogs and sleep deprivation". Even then, I'd try to hold out a bit.
The only reason this book is so good is because this is the ORIGIN of the whole DUNE universe! Without this story, there would be no DUNE! This is the only prequel novel that needed to be written at all!
This book was Action Packed! A real page turner, full of cliff hangers. Amazing characters to root for or hiss at. I loved it! image:
Seems to have major continuity issues with the original novels. Much more shallow and less intellectually rewarding than the books written by Frank Herbert.
"Humans, with such fragile physical forms, are easily crushed."   Dune is my favorite work of science fiction in large part because of its staggering sense of history. I still have yet to read any story that goes so far into the future. The Butlarian Jihad is the first story of the history of Dune and gives us glimpses into the far past, but still not far enough to touch our time. Let me break it down:There once was an Old Empire, it was peaceful and good and spanned many planets. People had en
Let me break it down:There once was an Old Empire, it was peaceful and good and spanned many planets.
The Age of the Titans lasted a long time.But eventually they too grew complacent and had their worlds taken over by the artificial intelligence known as Omnius.
Some worlds successfully fought for their freedom and retained it since the age of the Titans.
Good because this is where the story starts.
This is where the story starts people!
***Less than 2 years later***Serena: Oh Xavier, thoughts of you kept me alive while I was a slave to the machines and carrying your baby.
If I could give a negative star I would. It read like bad fanfiction.
But still it manages to provide something else quite unexpected: Good old fashioned Space Opera FUN!
Just overlook the (mostly) 2-dimensional characters and you'll find yourself immersed in a huge, sprawling, edge-of-your-seat sci-fi adventure like the classic serial adventures of old.
Those old serials were well before my time, but this (3 book series) evokes that era to great effect and is just a plain fun ride -- particularly after the Robot/AI Character 'Erasmus' is introduced.
If you enjoy Space-Opera, and don't approach the novel expecting DUNE, you may also find a lot to enjoy in this series.
The book does spend a great many words babbling on about the superiority of compassionate humans over cold machines, and expounding on the virtues of the human capacity for irrationality, but these topics have been covered in much greater depth by Star Trek (Spock and Data), which isn't saying much.Finally, and without wishing to detract focus from the broad, general problems outlined above, here is my complete list of FAIL:(view spoiler)[(2): "violent feud that continues to this day." No, the Harkonnens have been defeated by the time Irulan could be writing.Salusa Secundus is protected by a Holtzman Gelcircuitry-scrambling field that prevents thinking machine from getting close, but the Cymeks can enter because they have human brains.
This 612-page book is merely the first half of the story, and now I must go find and read the book I purchased last summer … hoping all the way that I will find the story to end there, and not be continued in some other successive installments I have not yet been made aware of.The time is some ten thousand years before the advent of the Dune episode … and a thousand years after 20 teenagers took over Earth’s empire, which had grown complacent and dumb, which at that time consisted of some 14-odd planets.
Anderson do an okay job in continuing with Frank Herbert's Dune legacy.
When I mean okay, I mean sure the book doesn't have the same philosophical flow and continuity, it also lacks finesse and would appeal to the younger generation X crowd who's more action and less thought BUT again, if you've been aching to know history behind Dune, then read this book.
It gives the origins of the Bene Gesserit, the reason behind the kanly between House Atreides and Harkonnen, and foremost it gives the explanation behind the whole man versus the machine backdrop prevalent in the original Dune series.
A lot more of Dune can be understood when reading this book.
Whoever read anything about Herbert (and I mean Frank) knows that he was perfectly capable of hitting you with entire paragraphs of philosophical musings that left your brain gasping for air (in a good way, usually).What do we have in this novel instead?
Completely flat.
Not a single sentence or paragraph stayed on my mind for more than 2 seconds after reading it.I probably should not get this heated up about a novel, but seeing what is probably the best crafted universe in the history of sci-fi wasted this way is something that really pisses me off.
Long, long from now in a galaxy too close for comfort, humanity (fondly called "feral humans" by the thinking machines) is struggling for existence.
Besieged as they are, the humans themselves are of course not entirely blameless and many of them have not discovered the concept of "human rights" and "equality."Bravery, treachery, deceit, galactic battles - it's all there - lots of fun.
The perspective has a certain distance, being not as far as historical reading, but not as close as first-person or day-to-day following one person through various doings.
I like the perspective very much and think the authors did a great job managing the parallel threads of the story.
Fans of Frank Herbert and his excellent Dune novels should avoid the dreck produced by his offspring at all costs. You're better off buying sci-fi comic books.
Honestly, I couldn't get very far in this book. None of the Brian Herbert/Kevin Anderson collaborations are very good, but this one is staggeringly, mind-blowingly awful. It reads like super-shitty fan-fiction, except than fan fic usually takes a moment to remember what universe it is set in. It's unbelievable that even two writers could churn out over 600 pages of this utterly pointless garbage - and it's only the beginning of a three-volume story arc! Holy cow. Money actually changed hands for this atrocity.
I listened to this on audiobook and it was dreadful. I couldn't even finish it. I made it about 3/4 of the way through and had to stop torturing myself.
However, Iblis appears more interested in politics and his own personal legacy than in the Jihad.Vorian Atreides, despite the long life given to him by his father, the Titan Agamemnon, begins to show the vestiges of wanting to settle down after visiting the planet Caladan, and meeting Leronica Tergiet, who is to become his long-term concubine.Xavier Harkonnen manages to free Ix from the thinking machines and must eventually make the ultimate sacrifice that will tarnish his name.The robot Erasmus continues with his enlightening human experimentation, and makes a curious bet with the Omnius entity on Corrin, where he claims he can raise a human being to be orderly and civilized like a machine.
So far I have to say that this seems like pretty boilerplate space opera stuff, and a bit lacking in the creative originality that made "Dune" such a big hit.
On the other hand I liked how the Titans overcame the defenses of Ghiedi Prime - unsubtle, but devastatingly effective.- As mentioned before, the Jack Vance doesn't need to worry about competition from this series of books and its authors.- The multiple stories thing actually helps as one is prevented from getting bored too easily.
When I read "Dune" back in the day I was blown away by the originality and creativity.
-- Read the 1st one by Frank Herbert "Dune" if you like it...2.
Its 3 books written by Frank's son Brian and a author I really like by the name of Keven J.
-- Go and read the "House Trilogy" series its also 3 books and is a prequel to the original dune series but just prior so you will learn about some of the characters in the 1st book you read "Dune".
The authors of the prequel series (his son Bryan Herbert and Keven J.
Anderson) finished the series from compiled notes from Frank, Brian's experience talking to his father about the series and both Brian and Kevin's love of the Dune universe.
It's not bad enough to deserve one star, but if *this* had been the introduction to the Dune universe, that universe would have crashed and burned.)The biggest problem is that, frankly, Brian Herbert doesn't know why Dune was so successful.
Probably the most intriguing thing about the world-building in Dune was how it started in median res.
The reader is introduced to the world slowly and naturally, with little hints in the chapter bumps.
Thus I suspect that to people to whom the sci-fi ideas are new and fresh or who don't appreciate the subtlety of the original series, this book will be OK reading.
Frank Herbert introduced us to the Dune Universe and I can say I have always been a loyal fan.Although at some point, a a young reader in high school it all went over my head.
In fact you forgot that it was science fiction, it reads like a wonderful, spell binding fantasy amongst the stars with rich locals and beautifully fleshed out characters.
Dune was unique in its own way, like Tolkien, it had its own universe.
All this questions would be answered wonderfully in the pages of this pillar within the sci-fi community.Truly Brian Herbert met his fathers legacy head on and produced not only a monument to the Dune saga but also developed his own unique voice.
So normally, I wouldn't have even considered picking up a book based off of Frank Herbert's original Dune series, even if it was written by his own flesh and blood, Brian Herbert.
The Butlerian Jihad was an ancient war between men and machines that was frequently referred to in the original Dune novels.
The story ranged everywhere from the front lines of battle, to lover's trysts, to slave raids, to noblemen savants...and settings all the way from the deserts of Arrakis to the original Earth (before it's destruction) under the tyranny of thinking machines.
OK, so after the critical phenom success of Herbert & Anderson's first DUNE prequel trilogy...they decide to cash in their chips and do another one.
This series chronicles the Butlerian Jihad hinted at in Frank Herbert's original books, the war by man to cast of the shackles put on them by thinking machines.
There's plenty of free humans living on Salusa Secundus even though Omnius and his machine hordes have taken over Earth.
Worse STILL, is that humans themselves still enslave other humans as in the case of the Zensunni and Zenshiite slaves.BUTLERIAN is tremendously sci-fi compared to the original DUNE novels.
You know, if you removed 'Dune' from the title, changed a couple of names and erased the (arguably) useless subplot on Arrakis, this is actually a quite enjoyable, albeit adolescent, space opera. It doesn't take itself too seriously, and there's plenty of cool story threads weaving along.It is not 'Dune', however, and as much as I had a blast reading the first instalment of this posthumous, prequel trilogy, the hard wired facts remain: This book, and everything else written by Herbert Jr and K Anderson in the Duniverse, is about money. And this saddens me.
I've decided to go back and read the Dune series in Chronological order. What can I say? Even though I've read this book before I thoroughly enjoyed it. Especially now that we have the Road to Dune to enhance the reading with short stories between the books. On to the Machine Crusade
Aber zum Glück sind das nur Details, insgesammt bleibt der Roman verständlich.Das liegt mitunter auch daran, dass einige grundlegende Fakten immer und immer wieder wiederholt werden, teils, als seien sie Ereignisse, die in anderen Büchern stattfanden und nicht gerade einmal 200 Seiten vorher.
Gibt es Emotionen, wirken sie mitunter sehr aufgesetzt und steif und haben damit ebenfalls eine eher geringe Wirkung auf den Leser.Kurioserweise ist es die Denkmaschine Erasmus, die durchaus Emotionen auslösen kann.
Auch sie kann daher nicht zulassen, dass der Krieg aufhört und ein Frieden mit den Denkmaschinen ausgehandelt wird.
