https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135486.In_the_Shadow_of_Man
My tattered and beloved copy of this book now bears the inscription: DeniseFollow Your HeartJane GoodallI read this book about ten years ago, and to this day it remains one of my favorites.
Jane Goodall had gone to secretary school and just happened to have a connection to the Leakey family, whose discoveries have shaped our view of evolution today.
A young woman with no prior knowledge about chimpanzees finds herself in the middle of the Gombe, following chimps as they go about their daily business.
Once you've read it, you'll never look at chimps the same way again.
Shortly before or after (I don't remember) I studied abroad in Kenya with Richard and Meave Leakey, I decided to read the books by 'Leakey's angels': Jane Goodall, Dian Fossey, and Birute Galdikas.
These three are known for their pioneering field studies of the three great apes—chimpanzees, gorillas, and orangutans, respectively.
I never did get around to Galdikas's book...When I read this book, I loved it.
I suspect I would like it less if I read it today, but that's probably because I've become more of a snob.
We are living on the Planet of the Apes, and we should be careful to remember it.
Nearly 50 years after being published , In the Shadow of Man by Jane Goodall is still a fascinating read.
I wanted to be there with the author as she conducted her ground breaking research in the Gombe area, not seeing chimpanzees in a zoo.The content, covering the ground breaking research amidst the close contact with the chimpanzees, is itself enough reason to read this book.
In the Shadow of Man may not quite achieve the same level of scientific wonder conveyed by say Carl Sagan or Rachel Carson’s writings but it is very close.
Jane Goodall is truly a treasure.
Normally I don't read science books, but kind of made an exception with this one because I admire Jane Goodall and her work with the chimpanzees.
She wants everyone to understand animals as much as she does and this book does that perfectly.Most of this book doesn't read like a science book, which is one reason I enjoyed it so much.
Goodall does a great job telling you which chimp is which by giving each one a name, but I think the photos help but faces to them and giving them more personality.The only parts I didn't care for as much was the chimp sex.
Highly recommend this read for both the scientific research and the delightful observations of Jane Goodall. Did you know her efforts lead to so many concepts about animals that we now take for granted? For example, that they have feelings, develop bonds and demonstrate some degree of grief when a family member dies. This has lead to research in dogs, birds and cats with similar insights!
Goodall is a great writer. She loves her work, and she makes readers love it too. She has a great, subtle sense of humor and a beautiful style: as passionate as she is about her work, she does not take herself too seriously.
Last week my friend Sandy and I went to see a movie about Jane Goodall's life which she was there to present and then had a Q&A session and signed autographs.
She only briefly, and in response to a question, touched on factory farms but said she gave up eating meat after that because she couldn't bear to eat the fear and pain the meat represented.
No, I'm a trained veterinary technologist and have worked in a number of clinics, including a research facility.I think it's just of all the things I've heard over the years of Jane Goodall's research that had never come up.
I read Jane Goodall's In the Shadow of Man (Houghton Mifflin 1971) years ago as research for a paleo-historic novel I was writing.
In the book, she shares every step with readers--how she followed the chimps until they finally accepted her presence without fleeing, how she learned to identify each animal and in that way track their lives, how she learned to understand their verbal and body language, how she learned to be a better mother by watching Flo's parenting skills.At the time she wrote this book, chimpanzees were not considered human--still aren't.
They lack man's wanderlust, restricting themselves to smaller and smaller parts of Africa every year, but by Jane Goodall's account, they enjoy their lives.Can we say as much for ourselves?
Once that got over, I started reading the book and was hooked from the word go, right in the introduction by Jane Goodall.It was a strange situation!
Her unique way of describing things, with so much of understanding and empathy,is what draws one to the book.It practically reads like a story and draws one unknowingly to the the individual apes who exhibit such distinct characteristics and personality, like their human counterparts.
Jane Goodall has a wonderful simple way of describing things and makes the reader move with her.The book since it's publication in the '70s, has been read by scores of people and has influenced many.
The first of Goodall's works, this book details her early, pioneering research on chimpanzees.
From providing a deep understanding of the life cycle of chimpanzees to their interpersonal and group dynamics, and tracking deeply endearing histories of several individual chimps, Goodall convinces the reader of the kinship that we share with these magnificent creatures.This is one of the rare science books I have read (the other one from recent memory being "The Invention of Nature") that served not only to educate, but arouse a sense of wonder and mystery in the reader.
Jane's writing made me feel as if we were sitting together over coffee; she's well-written without being pretentious, careful in her observation and description without being dry or over-scientific.
The drama of the chimp-world she was accepted into as an observer is fascinating and captivating.
Jane was able to allow these animals a rich emotional life without ever crossing into undue anthropomorphism (she never assumes feelings onto them because it's what she would feel in their situation).
Her honesty and deep appreciation, awe, and love of the chimps she met and worked with is absolutely captivating.
ترجمه کتاب به ویراستار سپرده نشده و این نقطه ضعف مهم کتاب است. غیر از این موضوع جک و جانوری جذابش امتیازش را بالا میآورد. غیر از یک جا در متن کتاب که اظهارنظر نویسنده و نگاهش به جنسیت هم سطح نگاه آزاد امروز نیست و آزار دهنده است. که شاید این را بشود بهخاطر سال تالیف کتاب دانست و کمی از آزارش کم کرد.
ترجمه کتاب به ویراستار سپرده نشده و این نقطه ضعف مهم کتاب است. غیر از این موضوع جک و جانوری جذابش امتیازش را بالا می‌آورد. غیر از یک جا در متن کتاب که اظهارنظر نویسنده و نگاهش به جنسیت هم سطح نگاه آزاد امروز نیست و آزار دهنده است. که شاید این را بشود به‌خاطر سال تالیف کتاب دانست و کمی از آزارش کم کرد.
Jane Goodall is everything I aspire to be in life, and this book was just amazing.
Life changing.
In her book In The Shadow of Man, readers discover that her early love of animals, taking the initiative to get herself to Africa, and the luck to meet Louis Leaky, who saw her potential, are factors that loom large.
What makes this book fascinating reading is the way she relates the interactions and lives of the chimpanzees living in the Gombe Preserve.
Although criticized for giving the chimps names instead of numbers, it does make it easier for nonscientists readers to appreciate the lives of the chimps reported in her book.
Lots to learn from reading this one.
a real joy to read. i even found myself with a favorite chimp (fifi) while going through the chapters. it’s endlessly fascinating how intricate the lives are of our earth friends.
Re-read this book. First read in 1971 when I was studying Anthropology at Berkeley. Incredible story of Jane Goodall's establishment of the Gombe study of chimpanzees, and an introduction to a fascinating cast of chimp characters.
A magnificent and illustrative book.It's both educative and thought-provoking, this because she reflects about how we treat non-human primates and animals in general, also the way how we raise children and other mattersIn this book, Goodall describes her work and findings about chimps, she is the person that knows the most about chimps so it's always good to read her own words.
You probably already know about her findings (that chimps are tool makers, that they are carnivores...
etc.) but the book is more that that, it's full of great descriptions of their behaviors and Goodall's own life.Worth reading, it may be a little boring sometimes, but most of the times it is amazing
This was a wonderful gift (signed copy!) Goodall brings such compassion to get observations about chimpanzees without ever losing the sense that they are wild animals. I learned a lot about chimp behavior from this book--and it even made me think differently about human behavior, especially power relationships.
Great journey! An enlightening and very distinctive book about the chimpanzees' communities and behaviour. It satisfied my curiosity for the problems in studying such animals and living by them in the wild. Jane Goodhall is one of the most inspiring naturalists of our times.
If I could suggest any one Jane Goodall book, this would be the book. This is where she started. It is emotionally charged and incredibly educational. I cannot think of a better book on Primatology. Bottom line is, Jane Goodall is an amazing person and this book captures that.
One of my favorite biological/non fiction books!
I have most deep respect and admiration for these people who devote their entire life to a wildlife cause.
Hence, even if I had not seen any David Attenborough, I would not have been surprised by monkeys fishing for termites with stalks of grass.Jane Goodall is not an academic, and having read what others think of her methods, I tend to agree with her detractors that human interference, such as gifting bananas or physical contact with the chimpanzees, can alter their behaviour and distort any conclusions.
As yet, I don't know of any better account, and will give Jane the credit for some astute, albeit sometimes biased, observations.
Jane Goodall's IN THE SHADOW OF MAN was published one year before I was born.
As we read of Jane's curiosity and devotion to the pursuit of knowledge and understanding the chimpanzees of eastern Africa, we find our own interest increasing with the turning of every page.
It was Jane Goodall who made the first scientific discovery that man alone was not unique in the making and use of tools.
It's been often said 'not to judge a book by its cover', but in this case, the image of Goodall's outstretched hand as it makes contact with a curious infant chimp is a wonderful indicator of the content of IN THE SHADOW OF MAN.
Jane Goodall is a treasure.
So, it was natural that I wanted to read this.
I do want to know about her, but I also want to experience what she experienced through her thoughtful, scientific eyes and I got that in reading the book.
To me it represented a triumph of the sort of relationship man can establish with a wild creature, a creature who has never know captivity...
The soft pressure of his fingers spoke to me not through my intellect but through a more primitive emotional channel: the barrier of untold centuries which has grown up during the separate evolution of man and chimpanzees was, for those few seconds, broken down.
I went to see Jane Goodall speak at the University of Florida a couple years ago, and she signed the copy I just read.
I left her talk feeling really inspired to pursue work with animals, but I felt like it was too competitive, a different era, and it was not promising.
I recommend this book to anyone who wants to not only learn more about chimps, but also read the story of a woman who went to Africa with her mother, slept in a tent, and spent years engaging with wild chimpanzees in Africa.
I put down the book feeling immense respect for her and for the chimpanzees.
As a girl she remained fascinated with animals and wanted to go to Africa and live like Tarzan.
Then she had the luck to meet Doctor Leaky and the luck to be selected to start researching chimpanzees without a science background.Her research was groundbreaking and detailed.
Along the way she obtained her PhD without first getting a bachelors degree, married a handsome wildlife photographer who shared her passion for learning about animals and started a groundbreaking research center.
This is a science book that anyone could love with great photos, a fascinating story and even more interesting information in the appendixes.
I first read about Jane Goodall in a newspaper article and since then I have been looking for her books.
Jane's love for her work and her immense contribution to studying chimpanzees is wonderful and fantastic.
Throughout the book, I discovered how chimpanzees live their daily lives and how similar they are to us and how impressive her accounts are in the understanding of these creatures.Jane and her team have devoted their entire lives to this cause and deserve all the praise in the world.
A pioneering work in the study of animal behavior and understanding.
Through her dedication and impeccable documentation of the chimpanzees in the Gombe region, Goodall showed not only the science and behaviour of our fellow apes, but also their stories and growth. I am particularly impressed by Goodall's tenacity and patience in the unforgiving jungle environment. Reading the book feels like listening to a close friend retelling stories from a family trip. The stories are touching and I feel like I now also have a relationship with Flo, Fifi, David Graybeard, Mike, and Goodall's whole extended family, human or chimps.
