https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7455.Sex_and_the_City
Ouch, ouch, my soul.Please don't misunderstand.
I like vanilla cupcakes top heavy with fluffy pink frosting as much as the next guy.
That's why the show is a longstanding guilty pleasure of mine.
The book: not so much.
I had to read several passages multiple times because it was difficult to stay sufficiently engaged to pay attention.
It's not Tolstoy.''I'm not trying to be Tolstoy,' Carrie said.
But of course, she was."If Carrie Bradshaw really is the author's alter ego, you have to wonder.
Upon finishing this book, I felt like I'd consumed a dozen pink-frosted cupcakes.
And read Tolstoy.
There are very few books I quit reading, even if I don't like them, because I am compelled with book guilt most of the time. I did not make it through this. All I can say is the writers for the HBO series REALLY had some vision, because the show was about 4000 times better than the book : )
This was ridiculous. It was incredibly self-indulgent and trite. It's incredible that someone read this collection of articles and said, "Hey! Let's turn this into a wildly funny, intelligent, and timely series that will win Emmys and Jill's Heart!" Avoid the book, rent the series.
I think I read this right after the show first started on HBO. The book is nowhere near as entertaining as the show...it doesn't have the 4-girlfriends-on-the-town approach that the show takes; instead, it just focuses on some caricature of a stupid New York-type that I hate: the ones who live here like it's LA with bad weather.If I had read this before I watched any of the episodes, I never would have turned on the show.
This book is nothing like the show (which I adore!). I couldn't make it past 50 pages of this book: I was so bored. Candace Bushnell is so impressed with herself and that's pretty much what her books are about. There was no plot or substance to hold my interest.
Rather, because I was curious about the origins of the characters and plotlines in one of my favorite television series.
However, some of the characters are different (in the book Charlotte is not the preppy friend of Carrie but rather the love-jaded English woman we only see in the pilot episode of the show).
The book doesn't focus on Carrie and her friends from Carrie's perspective, rather it is told by an outside narrator and focuses on several different people.
Overall, an entertaining read for fans of the Sex and the City television show.

Mejor la serie, la verdad.
I wouldn't rate this as a favorite, but would rate it as a book to be read...if you want to understand the politics of men and women, sexuality and more importantly life in a busy city...the book does not have the famous 'Carrie' as we would like it to be when you watch the serial.
The serial I feel is for the masses....the book for those who are interested in life...READ IT for sure...Ignore the comparisons between the serial and the book...if you are looking for a descriptive of the serial..then read the script of the serial.....not the book!!Atta girl Candace Bushnell....rare is a work of art like your's appreciated in today's world..."
I would have actually given it 1 star but i happen to like it in the beginning.All i can say is i despised this book and i practically rush read it just to get it over with.I mean the way the men and women are portrayed in this book makes me physically ill. I had to force myself to finish it, all the while i was reading this i kept wishing that i could read something i actually wanted to read.What a waste of time.I am glad it's the libraries book and i didn't waste precious money on this.
I really do applaud the creators of the show as I have no idea how they can read this and think “oh wow, let’s turn this into a witty, amazing television show that has characters the viewers will actually like”.I really apologise if this review is really nasty, but it took me ages to read, I just had no interest whatsoever, every book, no matter what I thought of it, has been able to reel me in the story within the first few pages but this?
DON’T bother reading this book if you can even call it that, I’d rather use it as kindling.
Oh my god, if you buy this book because you love the show and you want to read about a group of friends navigating the struggles of friendship and dating in New York City - STOP. PUT THE BOOK DOWN. BACK AWAY SLOWLY. This book is nothing like the tv show and will only make you regret the money and time you spent on it. Go read the 'Something Borrowed' series and thank me later.
I mean I'm not exactly a fan of the series, but I can say i like it...this feels a world apart from the series...and not in a good way.
Everything that would sometimes annoy me about the series ( I said I'm not exactly a fan of it) paled away in comparison with this mess.
This novel feels like a mess to me.
That is what this book felt like to me.
You might read it and end up liking it, I didn't.
After reading this book, I respect the screen writers and crew of the TV series The Sex and the City.
This book was highly disappointing.
I watch and love the show (and I'm looking forward to the movie) so I thought the book would be a sure bet.
The Sex and the City book was just full of ridiculous characters in their thirties trying to be young again by going out every night to the "hottest" bar, doing ridiculous amounts of drugs like that's the only way to be cool, and it was terrible writing.
I have no idea why they thought it would be a good television show.
This book is awful.
Αν μισήσατε τη σειρά, φανταστείτε ότι ο σεναριογράφος έκανε καταπληκτική δουλειά μεταφέροντας το απόλυτο τίποτα στη μικρή οθόνη. Του αξίζουν πραγματικά συγχαρητήρια. Εγώ, απ' την άλλη, σκέφτομαι πόσα αθώα δέντρα θυσιάζονται για να τυπωθούν σκουπίδια σαν κι αυτό και με πιάνει μια μελαγχολία...
A cheesy chick movie like How To Lose A Guy in 10 Days is neither deep nor revelatory, complicated or precise.
Bushnell's work reminds me of a watered-down Edith Warton novel filled with caricatures of people that seem like they were modeled after a real-world version.
But then again, what author doesn't fashion their characters after real people?
Bushnell's journalistic talent is obvious.
However, I would argue that the book lacks some focus and seems to sprawl from one character to the next (but then again, that may be because I started to skim at some point.) I respect her work as a writer and pioneer of chick-lit, but at the same time I'm always left a little bit disatistifed.
I was really looking forward to read this book, since I'm a big fan of Sex and the City.
At first I thought the book was a bit confusing.
I really started to enjoy reading this book.
What I really liked about the book was that even though the characters and the situation was quite different from the TV-series, there was moments that I really could see similarities.
Even though the book was nothing like I had imagined, moments like these created the same atmosphere that I loved about the TV-series.
I hadn't read the book even in Japanese yet, but I used to watch the drama with Japanese dubs.
The drama was very interesting to know a life in New York, and I enjoyed it very much.
I enjoyed reading the book while imaging the main characters faces and voices in the drama.
I think I can't live like the women in the book.
I definitely prefer choosing one man with whom I can live for a long time rather to be popular among a log of attractive guys.
I can't enjoy each moment, and I tend to think my future.
I have seen every episode numerous times and feel like lately when I rewatch an episode it hasn't quite stood the test of time, but that doesn't deny the fact that this was a great, ground-breaking show.
I was really excited to read this book, due to my love of the show.
But it was so completely different from the show, the characters were so flat, the writing so poor that I rue the fact that I paid even the Target low price of like 3 bucks for this piece of shit.
It's amazing that such a shitty book inspired such a fabulous television series.
Although I enjoyed reading the original content that inspired the TV show, Sex and the City is nothing without a strong bond between four female friends, sharing their life experiences. I missed the group dates with Cosmopolitans...
They break into roughly two camps:- This book is bad because I picked it up expecting it to be exactly the same as the TV series which I am completely obsessed with beyond all reason- This book is bad because it conflicts with my fantasy of what being rich, being single, and living in New York must be like.
Most of the good stories are spoiled by the TV series, which may take something out of it.At the same time, I liked this book because it felt more raw and real than it's adaptation.
I am a huge fan of the show, and this book was just horrible.
The series bears almost no resemblance to the book.
A few of the character names are the same and the Carrie/Big characters are kind of the same in the book and show.
I really feel that the TV scriptwriters did an amazing job at developing the series' well-rounded characters from this mess of a book.
Actually, I don't even want to call this a book...
There is virtually no plot or character development.
The book is a collection of seemingly unconnected short essays in interview format.
I really didn't like this book.
I've come to like the TV series because although it can be a bit raunchy or risque, it has the redeeming qualities of humor, introspection, and the value of friendship.
This book was all over the place.
I guess I thought it would be a series of columns, but it didn't seem that way to me.
It also didn't seem to have any introspection at all.
The problem is that it had some linear form and some non-linear form...like I said, it was all over the place.
I'll stick to the TV series.
"Сексът и градът" е от книгите, които много исках да прочета.Като изявен фен на телевизионният сериал имах огромното желание да се потопя в книжната история, да погледна по друг начин на героите. Направих го и съжалявам!За мен това е най-слабата книга, която съм чел до този момент!В книгата са нахвърляни истории на различни хора и нашите любими герои от сериала почти не присъстват в текста.
Divertido e leve tal como a série. Mas nada do outro mundo. Bom para "limpar o palato" de leituras mais densas.
The first I feel that the filmed version transcends the written one.
It made women seem hopeless, and that men would inevitably disappoint, manipulate women into getting what they wanted, and leave.
Basically the entire first half of the book made it seem like men have all the power in relationships, and women have to either take it or end up single and alone.The second half of the book made me never want to be in a relationship anyway.
After reading this book, I really want to take anti-depressants, because it seems to be saying that everyone's goal in life is to find a relationship, and once you find one, you're inevitably disappointed and slowly driven insane.
The TV show is so well written, with great characters and story lines which are very funny that it made me want to read the original book.
I would advise those of you who like the show to forget about reading the book.
Those who like to read Bushnell as an author, might find the book entertaining on a disjointed, superficial level.
Full of snippets of neurotic relationships and desperate sex, the book is one tale of failure after another.
This book is grim and dark, poorly written, and ripe with people I would never want to meet.
Den er fyldt med lækkerier og det er en serie jeg kan se igen og igen og igen!
Bare det at hive bogen frem fra reolen (hvorfor har jeg den overhovedet stadig på reolen?), gjorde mig ilde til mode..Jeg er så skuffet og når jeg nu tænker tilbage på min læseoplevelse, så synes jeg endda at de to stjerner jeg oprindeligt havde givet den, er for gavmildt og jeg er forundret over, at jeg overhovedet fik den færdiglæst.En tanke kører gennem mit hoved: hvad er det folk ser i denne bog, som jeg ikke kan se?
Hvordan har folk kunnet læse denne bog og tænke: "Den her!
I know, I know - the book that inspired one of my favorite shows of all time is supposed to be completely different, a collection of column entries, a haphazard look at approximately a thousand characters' lives in the Big Apple, etc., etc., etc., blah, blah blah.
As for me, it just left me depressed.
It left me with a bitter taste in my mouth.
This book literally drained me of happiness for the amount of time that it took me to read it.
On its own, this book is as close to trash as it gets.
