https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22575.Sit_Walk_Stand
This is one of those books that took me longer to read than I would have thought when I looked at its diminutive size. I found myself reading a page and then going back to read it again several times. There were some very timely lessons for my own life in this book. This will be one of those books that I will go back and read again from time to time.
So many of us so easily become confused with the whole grace, works, obedience thing. we are told to rest and trust god one minute then fight and run the race to win the next. This fantastic little book succinctly and clearly explains the relationship between understanding what has already been done before responding to that truth. Née is my favorite new creation teacher because he exlains so much, yet writes so little.. Clarity and brevity at its finest!. Must read!
when it comes to books that make an impact, change your thinking and move you beyond where you thought you could go, this book was it for me! so much insight and understanding! so much pressure removed! WOW! i must admit that the "walk" section did not impact me as much as the other two did, but this book is what i have been looking for! oh to have this revelation sink into my heart and change who i am. this is a must read for anyone who really wants to walk with God.
The best summary of the book is the one the author provides on the last page…“The Christian life consists of sitting with Christ, walking by him and standing in him.
It is only since I have learned to read everything through the lens of Jesus and His finished work that this book really begins to make sense.Incidentally, this is a very common experience for me – reading old books as if for the first time.Perhaps you’re like me – you read Sit, Walk, Stand many years ago and thought it was good but not great.
Sit, Walk, Stand is based on the three key words which divide the book of Ephesians into its basic sections.
Our position in Christ is one of sitting, our life in the world is one of walking and our attitude toward Satan is one of standing.
The Christian's entire life is to be founded and lived out from the finished work of Jesus.
Watchman Nee takes the grand theological treatise of Ephesians and breaks it down into simple, memorable and practical statements.
The spiritual truths outlined in Sit, Walk, Stand are simple but profound, critical but often forgotten.
The whole principle of Christian life is that we go beyond what is right to that which is well pleasing to him.”A small, but well-presented book.
Far surpasses the wordy, self-referential works of later writers.Interesting that a man who lived and worked in China seventy years ago is so popular today, but he was so effective there that he spent the last twenty years of his life in prison.
Many of his works were published while he was in prison.Best read at least three times.“[God] asks us to live a life we can never live and do a work we can never do.
The first Christian book I ever purchased. I have returned to it year after year. Watchman Nee is a brilliant writer and his insights on the power book of Ephesians is remarkable. For a new Christian this is a remarkable book to get our spiritual growth on the right track... to be seated with Christ in heaven.... rest.... is the foundation stone for both our walk and warfare in Jesus Christ. I've read much of Watchman Nee's writing but for me, Sit,Walk,Stand is the best of all.
I read this Watchman Nee classic nearly thirty years ago. It is as fresh today and as full of spiritual insight for me as it was then. Rotted in St. Paul's letter to the Ephesians, Nee takes the reader through the steps outlines by Paul to become an overcomer in the spiritual battle all Christians face.
One of the best books I've read. It's only 63 pages, but each page is filled with jewels. This book has set me free from false pressure and expectations I was putting on myself. "We must know how to sit with Christ in heavenly places and we must know how to walk worthy of him down here, [and] we must also know how to stand before the foe."
Watchman Nee has a wonderful way of explaining spiritual truths. By using just the three little words sit, walk, stand, found in the book of Ephesians, he reminds us of the power available to us to live our Christian lives.
Jesus Himself said Mary that had chosen the better part, yet so many of us Christians are more like Martha.
This to be the crux of Sit, Walk, Stand, and I agree with Watchman Nee that this is a matter that matters very much to God. Nee describes a cripple riding around in a motorized wheelchair.
Nee bravely declares that divine work can only be done with divine power that is found in Jesus Christ alone.
Thank you, Watchman Nee!
"It is paradoxical, but true, that we only advance in the Christian life as we learn first of all to sit down."Then he speaks of walking...living out what was inwardly planted.
The life of many Christians today is largely a pretense.
He asks us to live a life which we can never live and to do a work which we can never do.
The life we live is the life of Christ lived in the power of God..."My favorite quote:"The Lord always loved desperate souls."This read will fuel you.
Excellent teaching by Watchman Nee! Sit in our position in Christ; walk our position in the world; stand our position with the enemy. I read the paperback version back in college, but recently bought this audio version so my children could listen to it. I listened and was greatly encouraged by this christian classic. Highly recommended.The narrator, Steve Vause, did an excellent job reading Watchman Nee's work.
This is a great concise break down of the book of Ephesians. I try to read this book yearly as it's simplicity helps clear the clutter and refocus on the essentials of the faith.
Not only is his writing full of genuine sincerity, but somehow he's able to take all the complexities we Christians get distracted with and make them simple truths so easy to understand and believe.God's word is "Stand!" "Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil." The Greek verb "stand" with its following preposition "against" in verse 11 really means "hold your ground." There is a precious truth hidden in that command of God. It is not a command to invade a foreign territory.
The word "stand" implies that the ground disputed by the enemy is really God's, and therefor ours.
Our attitude to the enemy — 'Stand' (6:11)...His experience has now become my spiritual history...
16)We sit forever with Christ that we may walk continuously before men.
28)...you were wrong in seeking that love as something in itself, a kind of package-commodity, when what God desires is to express through you the love of His Son. God has given us Christ.
...the Christ of God is Himself everything that we shall ever need.
Overcomers are those who rest in the victory already given to them by their God.
God never asks us to do anything we can do.
There were however parts of the book I couldn't agree on or rather said I didn't like, how Watchman Nee wrote very confident about parts of scripture that many people would understand completely differently.
I have a hard time when theologians don't explain that there are other ways to understand this particular scripture and don't argue why they choose the point of view.
I know this wasn't Nee's purpose in this book, but this manner of approaching a lot of scripture left kind of a bitter taste in my mouth because many things weren't concrete enough and seemed rather mystical.Well, maybe someone really has to know God better to understand these things fully?!
It was a good book because it's short (64 pages) and very much to the point.
He kind of reminds me of Joyce Meyer in that they're both "Here's what you need to do; do it." kind of people.
All of this he gleans from Paul's letter to the EphesiansI kind of wish I had read this book 5 years ago.Then again, I never would have read this book 5 years ago.
The Christian life from start to finish is based upon this principle of utter dependence upon the Lord Jesus.""Adam began his life with the sabbath; for God works before he rests, while man must first enter into God's rest, and then alone can he work.""Every new spiritual experience begins with an acceptance by faith of what God has done - witha new "sitting down,""God gives us our position of rest.
This was so good. It took me quite a while to read because I really wanted to learn everything he talked about (I'm still working on that, btw). There's just too much stuff in here to mention it all, but the lessons I've learned about total reliance on Christ's finished work in me (sitting), allowing him to work that out in my daily life (walking), and the revelation that spiritual warfare is just holding the ground that God has already won for me (standing) and not "fighting" for it, has been invaluable.
It reveals the three progressive moves of God for Christian growth - all from the book of Ephesians. The need to sit (wait to learn at God's feet and be led) Eph 2:6; Walk (on the basis of what you have learnt and be able to make success of your life as God leads)Eph 4:1 Stand (Resist every move of the enemy to truncate your destiny) Eph 6:11
How much can you put into a book that's less than 70 pages long? Ah, if Mr. Nee weren't already impressive for his faithfulness before and during the (earthly) oppression he experienced in his life. Don't know how to describe what a gift this book was to me - peacebringer. :)
Awesome, awesome book. It totally blew me away, especially the final section on warfare. I was fairly knowledgeable about spiritual warfare heading into this one, but Nee really added some perspective to the whole topic that I'd never considered before. This one's a must read.
This is probably the best Christian book I've ever read. Every Christian should read it!
READ THIS BOOK!
God really changed my life through this book.
Nee is a guy who 'gets' it.
Excellent little book about Paul's epistle to the Ephesians1) Sit in the heavenly places in Christ.
Worthy of your calling.3) Stand against the enemy.Quotes:Christianity is a strange business!
If at the outset we try to do anything, we get nothing; if we seek to attain something we miss everything.
Christianity begins, not with a big DO, but a big DONE.
Ephesians opens with the truth that God has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in Christ.
At the outset we are invited to sit down and enjoy what God has done for us, not to try attaining it for ourselves.
This is a quick read ... or not. There are really good thoughts in this book as the author discusses Paul’s intent in his letter to the Ephesians in the Bible. These thoughts may cause you to slow down and give consideration to what the author is saying. Sit, Walk, Stand is worth your time to read.
This was a nice, short, easy to read book that was full of insight and revelations for me. I think it's just as relevant now as it was when it was written. I could probably read it over and over and see new insights. It is probably more useful for a person who is already a Christian than one who is considering the faith. I recommend it!
