https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92371.Lie_Down_with_Lions
Divagações aparte ( é apanágio dum bom livro elevar-nos além da história que conta, e recomendo vivamente todo e qualquer livro capaz de produzir pensamentos num horizonte mais vasto, que não o da trama propriamente dita ), esta é a história de Jane e dos seus leões.
A bela Jane, que só queria amar e ser amada, saiu das garras dum, para logo se envolver com outro ainda mais feroz.Pobre Jane indefesa!
Arrastaram-na selva adentro, e ainda lhe viraram a vida do avesso!...Moral da história: quem se mete com leões, acaba na selva!!!"O vale dos cinco leões" é um thriller histórico que nos remete para a topografia afegã.
Reto #41 PopSugar 2018: Un bestseller del año en que te graduaste de la secundaria Para mí, leer a Follett siempre es una gozada. Al menos trato de leer dos libros suyos al año porque: a) adoro los libros de espionaje y este autor es lejos el mejor y; b) cada vez que leo una de sus novelas aprendo un montón y la lectura me deja mucho más que sólo una trepidante aventura.Sí reconozco que El Valle de los Leones no alcanza el despliegue de personajes, locaciones y/o conflictos de otras de sus nove
Reto #41 PopSugar 2018: Un bestseller del año en que te graduaste de la secundaria
Para mí, leer a Follett siempre es una gozada.
Al menos trato de leer dos libros suyos al año porque: a) adoro los libros de espionaje y este autor es lejos el mejor y; b) cada vez que leo una de sus novelas aprendo un montón y la lectura me deja mucho más que sólo una trepidante aventura.Sí reconozco que El Valle de los Leones no alcanza el despliegue de personajes, locaciones y/o conflictos de otras de sus novelas, pero te mantiene pegado a sus páginas, sobre todo en la última parte, en que logra, con una maestría asombrosa, provocar un estado de angustia horrible con la huida de sus personajes principales, y uno como lector está ahí… rogando porque lo logren.Entre los libros de Follett que he leído, es primera vez que las relaciones románticas de sus personajes tienen tanto peso en el argumento.
Let’s take a trip back in time and visit the early 80’s with Lie Down With Lions, back when Brooke Shields let ‘nothing’ come between her and her Calvin Kleins (jeans) and “Who shot J.R.?” was on everyone’s mind.
We have a French Doctor and his lovely English wife tending to the Afghan mujaheddin in the Panshir Valley, home of Ahmed Shah Masud.
Ellis has a history with the good doctor and especially his wife.
"We should have seen it coming and not supported the Afghan rebels." But read this book and you will see what the prevailing sentiment was regarding the situation.
I forgave the multiple introduction of characters and "weird" personality quirks (unless your readers have all lost their short term memory, they will remember a woman finding her baby suckling as an erotic act), unmoving characterization, the horrific 3 sex scenes all put together in one chapter - but at this moment he heaped another twist on the great spy battle.
I can take twists but this "twist" is added to keep the story going - not because it's a part of the original plot.
With a bewildering plot and no redeeming characterization, I simply won't spend another 100 pages with this story.
Posto isto, está claro que gostei deste livro, não tanto como de Os Pilares da Terra mas o suficiente para já me confessar fã do autor e querer continuar a ler os seus livros.Neste em particular temos um triângulo amoroso.
Felizmente as personagens neste livro não são de extremos, como acontecia n'Os Pilares, sendo que ambos os love interests têm pontos positivos e negativos.
Um tem mais pontos bons e o outro tem mais pontos maus é certo, mas o próprio leitor não consegue deixar de pesar os prós e contras de ambos, tal como Jane faz.
The only character we can care about is Ellis, really named John, who in the end is a shallow character--he only cares about Jane.
Over and over we are exposed to the irony of a love interest (a triangle of course--Follett falls back on his award winning formula), Jane, who while supposedly capable, opinionated, strong-willed, and a devout feminist, fails to uphold most of those qualities.
However, the bigger plot hole is why Jane and her husband Jean-Pierre are there.
Of course, in the end someone falls to their death (he does that a LOT--see my review for CODE TO ZERO), but we do not know what happens to Anotaly.
This is a real page-turner. I read it in hardcover with over 300 pages and it took me less than a week which is much quicker than usual for me. It is a great read for those that like historical novels placed in the middle east. However, this is much more story than historical information.There were two explicit scenes that could have been left out and did not add to the story which is why I didn't give it a five star rating.
داستانی عالی وجذاب .رمانی با شخصیت های ساخته شده که به بهترین نحو پرداخت شده اند .فالت با چیره دستی 
With the characters engaged in the, true to life, Afghanistan war it's easy to accept presumptions without having to read the back-story as well as the humanity and psychology of the main characters and the tribal citizens living in a world that is more foreign to the reader than most would acknowledge.
Follett utilizes the modern media along with the many perspectives of the modern global citizenry to help build the psychological basis from which any reader can empathize with each of the characters from his or her current opinions of this war torn region and the people who are in constant conflict with one another as well as taking sides and fighting with or against the invader if the day.
The author spends pages and pages on details that are unnecessary and can often start you wondering, "Why am I still reading this?".
The sequence of events leaves the reader shaking his head as it is so out of line with the other events and uncharacteristic of the behaviors of the characters in the book.Some things are tied up a little too neatly in the aftermath chapter, and some left completely unsaid, which could be a good thing if the author picks that up in another book.
Sadly, I don't think I will find out as I will struggle to pick up another by this author.
I think it is worth reading as it was well researched for the background of the Russian involvement in Afghanistan, bearing in mind written long before recent events. There is a bibliography in the book for guidance to more in depth reading aboit Afghanistan.
Great action and twists and turns. Early Follett book that describes the military support the Americans gave the rebels (aka Osama) to defeat the Russian invasion of Afghanistan. Knowing how the future unfolded in light of this support made the book that much more interesting.
Um romance average que entretém, dentro do género da espionagem. As personagens também não foram além do average, e houve uma panca qualquer com a mulher a amamentar, que não só era referindo com frequência, como era sexualizado a maior parte das vezes, ao ponto de se tornar incomodativo.
Of the connection I could feel to struggles of the characters and my desire to be one of those characters!In hindsight, I don't want to know if this was a great book or not.
I want to remember the man and woman struggling to cross the mountains in Afghanistan to get to freedom.
I want to remember how I felt turning the pages with the danger and sexual desire of the couple as they moved onward.If you've read Follett, you know what he can do with characters and a story and an amazing backdrop.
One of my all time favorite books. I have always liked Ken Follet's vivid style of writing. This is an exciting spy thriller. I know it's very "cliche" but it is a page turner that is really hard to put down especially the ending.
I was sadly, very disappointed with this one. If I'm being honest, I was kind of pissed off by it. I didn't buy the character of Jane, for a minute. She really turned me off of the story and angered me throughout, which ruined the whole book for me.
Come tutti i libri che ho letto di Follett anche questo è molto avvincente e di veloce lettura, si perde però un po’ nel finale, illogiche alcune scelte dei protagonisti e poi troppo cinematografico. Belle le descrizioni dei luoghi e dei modi di vivere e pensare della popolazione del posto; meno bella la scena di sesso, anzi un po’ troppo pesante. È stato interessante leggere della rivolta afghana contro l’invasione russa dal punto di vista dei residenti.
I mean really, why do I keep reading Ken Follett (and for that matter Stephen King) and then giving the books a 2 star rating?
My answer (as is obvious by my reviews and ratings and general choice of book) is it should act as a mirror and present the reader with something profound.
It is not all that interesting and the plot twists are very contrived and oftentimes unbelievable, but boy is this shit easy to page through.None of the characters were real: super spy Ellis; psycho doctor Jean-Pierre; and gullible, yet brilliant and tough and beautiful Jane.
What I didn't know before reading this one was that he's capable of writing atrocious books as well.It's hard to describe this book - it's really difficult to tell whether it's meant to be a love story, a thriller, a travelogue of the Hindu Kush region of Afghanistan or just a pretty sordid soft porn book.
I'm not sure the author quite knew what he was trying to write either, as he seems to pick up some sort of enthusiasm for a topic, before abandoning it in search of another purpose for his book.It's a triangular love affair set in the hills and valleys of Afghanistan during the Russian occupation of the 1980's.

I find myself looking for it in every bookstore I visit, only to be disappointed that I cannot find a larger-sized paperback copy or a hardback copy of this book.
I want to buy it and keep it and remind myself to re-read it, but I don't keep or collect trade paperbacks.
I just finished re-reading this book.
I ordered the larger paperback size from Amazon.com and was not disappointed!
The book was as exciting as I had remembered and now I have a copy of it to keep on my shelf.
I just finished listening to this book; second time through for me, as I read it years ago. Still a gripping tale and one that I enjoyed.I first read the book a long time ago, about 1986, and I really enjoyed the earlier Follett books and this one was perhaps my favorite. This was perhaps the first novel I read that treated breastfeeding as the expected norm - and added some normal sensuality to it. Plus, the book is based in reality.........at least somewhat.
my 1st Ken Follet..When I started I don't know that this is a adventure-romance genre...but once started I can't put down this book...the story is soo dramatic, full of intrigue, facts & adventure...Fiuhh!! what an experience to read this wonderful triangle love-story...the love-scene are steamy-hot...especially this is set in Afganishtan...The land of desperation...Bravo Ken Follet!!
As a fiction novel, I don't know how much stock to hold in the cultural implications of the book, but it was a thrilling read. I was taken aback a bit by the graphic details given in the sexual encounters but I guess that is to be expected in books like this. Great character development and it kept me on the edge of my seat. I'd read another book by this author, but I wouldn't call it a fav.
I loved this book.I finished it in two days (not on a weekend :) )Ken Follett does such a great job writing Historical Fiction/Suspense. I loved that it takes place during the cold war in Afghanistan. A very unique twist.
Lions like many spy adventures does get from the beginning to the end with some questionable James Bond type of heroics.
This book takes some large detours from the main plot into character development.
If this is his natural style then it works perfectly for some of his later epic novels.
If this was done intentionally as practice for some later planned work, he did it well.
These detours while I don’t think were needed for the story were well written and entertaining.
The only other questionable part of this book was a rather lengthy sexual encounter between the main characters.
Another exciting page-turner from Follett. I took one point off due to the brutality. I didn't know who would survive up to the last chapter. Wonderful spy thriller.
Russia has a turn at the Afghanistan quagmire in the 1980s. Opposing spies and the hardy woman they both fancy dance life's quadrille.
Another winner from ken follett, a great weaver of tales. The place is Afghanistan and it’s us vs Ruskis with lots of secrets and espionage and love of course.
"So what will you do when you get home?" she asked, "Go back to devising cute ways of killing Castro?""The Agency is not supposed to do assassinations," he said."But it does.""There is a lunatic element that gives us a bad name.
Unfortunately, presidents can;t resist the temptation to play secret-agent games, and that encourages the nutcase factions.""Why don't you turn your back on them all and join the human race?""Look, America is full of people who believe that other countries as well as their own have a right to be free - but they're they type of people who turn their backs and join the human race.
The Agency is.""Control isn't that simple," said Jane.
