https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25814512-everyone-brave-is-forgiven
But the story and characters in Everyone Brave Is Forgiven seemed flat and pastiche like compared to many other books I have read set in WWII.
The story focuses on a handful of characters in London starting at the beginning of the war.
And the book focuses on the development of these characters as the war unfolds.
In a foreword, Cleave mentions that he wrote this book to honour his grandfather who was stationed in Malta during the war and charged with watching over Churchill's son.
A character driven novel, a slow read and a quiet one.
Loved reading how theses characters were changed during the war, not all for the good but change they did.
The war in Malta where Alastair is stationed, it is here we meet the very upper class Simonson, who is at turns amusing and anguished.
A novel of love and longing, of terror and joy and a very personal one for this author as he writes in his preface.
Loved this quote that Mary writes in a letter to Alastair, "We live you see, and even a mule like me must learn.
But that doesn’t mean we have to feel an allegiance with everything within that boundary and the underpainting of this novel is of a nation with some very unpleasant social issues – especially, as I said, class snobbery and racism.
Both Alistair and Mary therefore address problems of social injustice while Tom and Hilda are more inclined to conform to the norm.
It’s perhaps one of those novels in which the author is too present – it’s his wisdom after the event the characters sometimes implausibly articulate regarding social issues and it’s his sense of humour they all repetitively ape.
Both of Cleave's grandmothers inspired the character Mary, a piece of the love triangle at the center of the story.
This eventually leads her to teaching school which becomes difficult when her charges are dispatched to the countryside, Cleave's maternal grandmother, Mary West was a teacher.
Told in chapters with monthly titles beginning in September 1939 and ending just after America joins the fray I highly recommend Everyone Brave Is Forgiven Cleave's ability to capture the London Blitz, this period of history and to create characters that we grow to love makes this a winner.
This WWII novel is set in the earlier days of the war, focusing on its effect on four young Brits: Mary North, a lovely and privileged but rebellious young woman who is earnestly trying to do her part to both help the war effort and combat prejudice, especially against blacks; Mary's best friend Hilda, quick with a joke but always feeling overshadowed by Mary, who always seems to attract the men that Hilda is interested in; Tom Shaw, head of the local education authority who gives Mary a teaching job and then becomes her lover; and Tom's best friend Alistair Heath, who works at the Tate museum restoring paintings, but quickly joins the army when the war begins.The novel alternates primarily between Mary and Alistair's viewpoints, with Mary experiencing the London Blitz firsthand as a teacher and then as an ambulance driver, and Alistair caught in the siege of Malta, where the British military was holed up, trying to maintain control of the strategic island while being constantly bombed by the German and Italian air forces.
Chris Cleave is another one of those authors - who just can't do anything wrong in my book....
"Little Bee", was read by every book club in the Bay Area.
Paul, my husband, and I were also watching the 'real' Olympic events on TV.
This book was pure fun ...I STILL THANK Chris for writing it....
He gave Paul & I some enjoyable pleasures reading this together.
Chris Cleave can write pretty much about anything ....he's a gentle spirited writer that 'always' moves me.
A MUST READ!!
Thank You Simon & Schuster, Netgalley, and CHRIS CLEAVE!!!!
This is the first novel of Chris Cleaves I've read and I can see why he has such devoted fans. This was a strikingly honest look at the changes war creates on a country's landscape and its people. These changes were so strongly shown by the progressive style of this novel. Bit by bit, we are privy to each characters transformation. I loved the fact that this was loosely based on Cleaves grandparents own story. What a great tribute to what they endured. War gives birth to many endings, also to many beginnings. Bitterly sweet. 4.5 stars.
Just when one thinks that there cannot possibly be a new angle with which to explore World War II, an author pens a book that has readers discovering all over again why this time period is the inspiration for so many meaningful books.Chris Cleave, author of the eye-opening Little Bee (if you haven't read this one, do yourself a favor and add it to your TBR list today), gives us a view of the Second World War in London and Malta through the eyes of Mary and her friend Hilda (socialites who want to make a difference on the home front), Tom (a teacher and Mary's romantic interest), and Alastair (Tom's roommate who is sent to fight in Malta).
This novel's uniqueness lies not in the descriptions of the London Blitz, or the horrors of war -- though Cleave deftly handles these.
So much was written about this book already, so let me just say, this book was really entertaining. The level of cynicism and sarcasm is unheard of and unexpected in a book about Wold War II. Every conversation dripped with humor, insults and clever answers. I've read Everyone Brave is Forgiven on my electric device but I will be buying hard copy of this book for my library. Have to have it.
Tom has decided to ignore the war for a time...until he discovers that his roommate and good friend Alistair Heath has suddenly enlisted.
Mary is in London throughout the Blitz and tries to help out in many different ways, from driving an ambulance with her good friend Hilda, to continuing to try and teach the children that British society has deemed unworthy.
This book was also inspired by the roles the authors grandparents played in the war and the love letters between his grandparents during this time, and it was nice to read the author telling a bit more about their history and how it inspired him.This novel was beautifully written and very moving.
This was a very good dish, one that could have been great!Set in London during the onset of WW2 and the subsequent relentless Nazi bombing of military and eventually civilian targets during the Battle of Britain, the story centers on Mary North, the 18-year old daughter of an affluent British family living in the Pimilco section of London.
Incensed by the fact that London Zoo animals are evacuated to the countryside to avoid Nazi bombing, along with London’s regular children, before those that are black or mentally and physically disabled, Mary insists Tom create a teaching role for her and her kids in the old abandoned Hawley Street School.

One of them is against the enemy, yes, but the other is against the tendency of our own society to divide, to polarize, to fracture."  Everyone Brave is Forgiven explores both of those wars in a deep yet beautiful way.Starting in London just before the Blitz, this is told through  the eyes of Mary, her beau Tom, and Tom's  friend Alistair, who has enlisted.
Cleave's first illustration of a society where black and handicapped children were not allowed where the others were, and many other examples followed.The love that develops between Mary and Tom is written with a mixture of humor and compassion, which I found refreshing and engaging.
With a backdrop of World War II and the London Blitz, I expected more from this book.
I found the character's flat and the story line recycled.
Forbidden romance between members of different social strata, female ambulance drivers, evacuated children, destroyed buildings and the brutal horrors of war are all topics central to any WWII novel.
However, Cleave's treatment of these topics felt contrived and very thin.
The author failed to give the story or characters any depth.
Cleave's prose cannot be faulted but if you are looking for WWII historical fiction with some range and scope, best to pass on this one.
The story itself is ordinary and somewhat predictable: World War II and a woman in love with two men.
Because no matter how often the stories are repeated, each one is special and heartbreaking and particular.The prose is luminous, so beautiful I think I cried sometimes just for the love of the words.
Chris Cleave is an amazing writer-I loved Little Bee almost as much as I loved this one.I strongly recommend this book to anyone who loves beautiful writing and touching stories.
It has been the inspiration for some unforgettable gems in recent years such as Atonement, The Night Watch and All the Light We Cannot See. And now Chris Cleave's first foray into the historical genre can be added to that impressive list.On the first page we are introduced to Mary North, a passionate and clever young woman who signs up for action on the very same day that war is declared.
This engaging story unfurls at a fair old pace and Cleave creates such likeable characters that we immediately become invested in their fates.
Because a letter meant so much they poured themselves into each one--as if there might be no more paper, no more ink, no more animating hand.This was the only poignant excerpt I gathered from this book and it is in the author’s acknowledgements that I found these profound and moving words.
The narrative swung from London to Malta and back again and given the somewhat flippant nature of the dialogue, I kept hearing a pseudo-announcer voice in my head every time we went back to the battle scenes…’and now back in Malta.’What puts this in solid three-star territory, however, is the author’s ability to write a scene so vividly you feel as if you’re part of the action.
Mary North, 18, English upper class, at once leaves her Swiss finishing school and comes back to report to the War Office.
When Tom's roommate Andrew signs up, and we see him in basic training, all the familiar tropes of a British WW2 novel fall into place: attractive young woman, infatuated young man, normal rules set aside, sense of adventure, touch of romance, and that defiant humor that is virtually a British speciality.
But Cleave nudged me more than once out of my comfort zone, and that was what kept me reading.All the same, it is not a five star novel.
A love quartet ensues, billed more as a triangle because poor Hilda is just thrown in for good measure and symmetry.This book will be (already is, pre-publication) a bit hit.
This didn't work for me at all - it makes this book no different than a dystopic fiction that asks about how we develop-and survive through-relationships in end-times...
Still, it seemed a bit too much - this was the mode of engagement between everyone in the book: Mary and her mother, Tom and Alastair, Alastair and fellow soldiers, Mary and her students, etc etc.
Since most children have been evacuated to the countryside in anticipation of the London blitz bombing, the only ones who remain are the “undesirables”, including Zachary, a young black boy and the son of an American minstrel show Interlocutor,, and he becomes one of Mary’s favorite students.There is a gentleness and cleverness in the repertoire between and among these characters.
Chris Cleave powerfully shows the impact of war, both overseas and at home, and the unimaginable ways we struggle to stay alive and perhaps more importantly, keep hope alive.
Still wanting to teach, she hounds Tom Shaw, the twenty-three-year-old head of the school district, to be allowed to hold a class for those left behind, those unwanted children that no one will take in.
Their relationship develops until she meets Tom's best friend, Alistair, home on leave from a defeat in France, and it's love at first sight.
Well done!Cleave starts off his book with a letter to his readers, describing how he came to write this story, which was inspired by his grandfather's war experiences and both grandmothers' volunteer work in London.
Perhaps haha, but oh well :-P)Cons/So-So's:(Just my personal feelings)Some of the period language got on my nerves with regards to certain things, I know it was the way some thought/talked back then and I took that into consideration but personally I just to smack more than a few people sometimes.Sometimes the angsty parts made it hard to get through the book.
more of the latter than the former, I can be a patient reader when I sense a book is worth it but there were a couple times I grew frustrated.____It is a beautiful book, there are some moments of happiness in it but you can feel the shadow of the war hanging over everyone's thoughts and actions.
DNF @25%. Audiobook. The narrator was the one bright spot. If I could describe the book in one word it would be tedious. The characters, plot, interactions.........all tedious.
It was lovely to read about how this novel set mainly in London and Malta during WWII , was inspired by his grandparents.
She actually is sent to teach and then accompany children to the country side to keep them safe from the bombs which have started to hit London.
Maybe it was because the characters began to develop as the story progressed , as the war progressed , as the bombs hit London , as the characters mature , as the impact of it all on them becomes evident.
(Hugh Grant could effortlessly play all the male roles in a film!)The two central characters are naïve, good-hearted blunderers, trying to preserve peacetime ethics in a time of war.
All the characters in this novel blunder their way somewhat ineptly through the war.
Obviously it wasn't all self-sacrifice and courageous team spirit and though Cleave focuses on darker forces at play in the British psyche they feel pasted on rather than any integral part of the novel's narrative.
So, excellent when it focuses on the war itself; a bit cheesy and contrived when it turns its attention to social platforms.
This felt so real and unique in detail, engaging in character and plot, and absorbing in language that coming out of reading it is a bit like being scraped out of real history to be deposited back in a shallower today.
Though gritty and moving, it wasn’t an overly painful read for this overly sensitive reader.
The sense of full dimensional transportation to another experience reminded me of Saving Private Ryan as compared to other WWII movies—though it’s nothing like that movie.
But Saving Private Ryan was agony for me to watch in its in-your-face film style.
This wasn’t agony to read, even when feeling, at times, agony in the characters.
That said, at times his writing was almost too descriptive which sometimes distracted from the plot.War is devastating, all-encompassing and horrific so it might sound odd that my favourite part of this book was the humour.
This was more of a personal look at war and showed how different characters struggled to be brave (with different levels of success) but with the exception of a couple of tense situations, it wasn't as gritty of a read as I was expecting.I liked the main characters (Mary, Tom, Hilda and Alastair) in varying degrees.
The book begins with eighteen year old Mary North, privileged and idealistic, fleeing her finishing school in Lausanne to join up for war work.
However, when she is told she is not to accompany the children she finds herself heartbroken and her search for teaching work leads her to Tom Shaw, the head of a school district in the capital.This novel follows Mary’s story as she uses Tom to achieve her ambitions.
Other characters include Mary’s friend, Hilda, and Zachary, a young boy that she befriends, whose father works as a Minstrel in a London club.
I love what the back cover copy says about this book:"This dazzling novel dares us to understand that, against the great theater of world events, it is the intimate losses, the small battles, the daily human triumphs that change us most."I keep telling myself, "Okay.
Chris's new book, which earned a starred review in Publishers Weekly, is a gem, and written with such achingly beautiful prose, sometimes you can forget this is a book about what war does to people.
It's one of those books that makes you ponder not just "what does this story mean?" but also, "what does this story mean to me?"I'd read it again.
This will be one of the best novels, and historical fiction novels of 2016.The story takes place when Britain declared war in 1939.
The story was inspired by author Chris Cleaves grandparents.
Cleaves Grandfather inspires the male protagonist, Alistair Heath, Captain Hill.
As historical fiction goes, this is a great story illuminating the harsh conditions both military and civilians lived through.It’s also a love story, one that is hindered and stressed under wartime conditions.
Every one is changed; and through that transformation the question of love becomes different.I highly recommend this novel for those who enjoy historical fiction and for those who want an engrossing read.
