https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/247526.Reaching_Out
إن الحياة برفقة الأصدقاء هي مصدر فرح فريد، لكن حياتنا تكون يائسة إذا كانت رفقة الأصدقاء هي الهدف الذي نسعى إليه.
وحسن أن نتسلم الرسائل من الأصدقاء ، لكن بدونها علينا أن نكون قادرين على العيش سعداء.
والزيارات هي كالهدايا التي لها قيمتها، لكن بدونها علينا ألا نقع فى شرك المزاجية الكئيبة.
فنحن فى حالة البحث الدائم عن الجماعة التى يمكنها أن تشعرنا بالانتماء، لكن من المهم لنا أن ندرك فى ما يخص رغباتنا المشروعة، أن الوجود معا فى محل واحد وبيت واحد ومدينة واحدة وبلاد واحدة ما هو إلا أمر ثانوى.
"Hospitality means primarily the creation of free space where the stranger can enter and become a friend instead of an enemy. Hospitality is not to change people, but to offer them space where change can take place."Henri Nouwen gets 5 stars no matter what out of principle!!!!!!But even if that weren't true, it'd still give 5 stars to this book (and Wounded Healer, I mean come on).We love you Mr Nouwen.
The late Henri Nouwen's works are always worth reading.
As I got into it, I realized that the first two "movements" of the book's title promise, "The Three Movements of the Spiritual Life," relate to things I've gone through some time ago (though I probably will again).
But the movement from illusion to prayer got me right where I live.As with his other books that I've read, Nouwen's writing here is full of simple wisdom, helpful illustrations, and poignant memories.
His relatively early death has been a loss to all those who seek the spiritual path.
I've completed this, my first Nouwen book, with the conviction that I waited far too long to begin reading this author!"Reaching Out" is a simple, straightforward, deep, and dense treatment of the inward, outward, and upward movements of the spiritual life.
The inner movement (from loneliness to solitude) involves letting go of expectations from others, and being willing to be alone.
Nouwen compares hospitality to parenting - not clinging or controlling, but enabling one's development and departure.
Nouwen claims that the upward movent (from illusion to prayer) undergirds the other two.
Nouwen recommends listening to Scripture, spending alone time with God, and having a spiritual guide.
Some favorite quotes:“Only few ‘happy endings’ make us happy, but often someone’s careful and honest articulation of the ambiguities, uncertainties and painful conditions of life gives us new hope.” “When we think about the people who have given us hope and have increased the strength of our soul, we might discover that they were not the advice givers, warners or moralists, but the few who were able to articulate in words and actions the human condition in which we participate and who encouraged us to face the realities of life.
Since I started reading this book I have reccomended it to over ten different people.
We will be in the middle of friendly conversation and they will say something that will spark a connection to something I had read in the book and instantly I know that the answer they are looking for is found.
Instead it acts as a guide, bringing together life examples and works from other authors to share in the journey of spiritual growth.I've loved every second of this book.
If you want to have your eyes opened to areas of spiritual growth, this is the book to do it.
The overall structure of the book consists of these three movements from one disposition to another, much like opposing poles on a magnet.
Solitude seems to refer to the ability to live at peace with those inherent tensions within yourself.
The second movement, from hostility to hospitality, had some insightful connections as well, particularly hospitality’s connection to solitude.
Nouwen sets up prayer as the language of the believer and the church.
The opposite of illusion would be reality, and prayer is the posture from which the believer and the church as a community should understand what reality is.
Not the Nouwen I'm used to. A little less poetic; maybe the closest he ever came to a manual for spiritual formation. Well-conceived and meaningful. 4 stars.
I will read this book over and over again.

But in the end he loses much of this peace and clarity when he regains his health and resumes the demands of his daily life.What he learns has implications for parents, teachers, doctors, clergy, and any care givers.
We learn what is true prayer and that we must pray from the heart.As a teacher of urban students I appreciate his perspective that I have heard before but for me it makes more sense in Catholic-ease.
The challenge is for teachers to create this inviting space that allows students to inquire and explore but still teach with our own convictions.
Nouwen offers counsel on moving from loneliness to solitude, from hostility to hospitality, and from illusion to prayer.
Nouwen takes solitude, usually not something that sounds very exciting, and presents it as a creative opportunity, a space within that can be offered to God and to others.
Nouwen sees hospitality as a constructive dialogue in which the host offers a space for the guest to discover themselves and grow through dialogue and mutual sharing.
Finally, Nouwen's discussion of prayer is thought-provoking and challenging.
At times Nouwen can be a bit abstract, but the concepts he offers are simple and challenge the reader to discover their own applications.
Doesn’t feel right to rank this one with the star-system; a good quiet read, especially the first two sections on loneliness/solitude and hostility/hospitality; Nouwen’s books repeat themselves often and also state the obvious, but I always find surprising new gems in his simple-seeming books.Been thinking a lot about my philosophy of teaching lately, and he says beautiful things here about teacher as host, class as a space of hospitality: “A good host is the one who believes that his guest is carrying a promise he wants to reveal to anyone who shows genuine interest.
A friend gave me this book while I was going through a major life transistion. Not having a strong religious foundation growing up, I found myself in the beginning of the book resentful and slightly offended that my friend thought I needed 'reached out to'. As I read more, those feelings swiftly changed and I embraced every chapter; each movement. This is a short read, but I read it slowly and repeated many pages to really grasp the message. I really enjoyed it and will continue to reference it throughout my life.
This is a book I have given to a friend who was sick and had to stay home for a month. She told me later on that she thought it was mean of me to let her read this book when she herself needed to be reached out. Of course she was judging the book by its cover. Surprisingly the book ministered to her in touching ways.
The clear writing is straightforward and the book progresses logically in three movements: from loneliness to solitude, hostility to hospitality, and from illusion to prayer.
Excellent book about the three movements of the spiritual life--transitioning from loneliness to solitude, hostility to hospitality, and illusion to prayer.
Recommended by Emily. Mentions education and parenting.
Full of LifeI think this book can help to live with Life in the world where sadness is common! It is full of life!
My favorite book of 2015! Reading this book was a transformative experience for me.
Nouwen's 3 Movements of spirituality might turn some people off, especially the final movement from illusions to prayer.
The headlines of today would seem to make it obvious who the inhospitable people in our society are, but Nouwen doesn't settle for the obvious answers only.
Only by embracing a peaceful solitude and creating a hospitable place for oneself and others can a person fully understand and appreciate what a relationship with the Creator feels like.
Prayer--constant and communal--is the gateway to a relationship with the Father of all things.Nouwen's book isn't perfect, and at times it's easy to be impressed by the flow of the words and not really pick up on what he's communicating.
Hospitality is not to change people, but to offer them space where change can take place."From illusion to prayer: "So, the paradox of prayer is that it asks for a serious effort while it can only be received as a gift.
. This paradox of prayer forces us to look beyond the limits of our mortal existence.
. The movement from illusion to prayer is hard to make since it leads us from false certainties to true uncertainties, from an easy support system to a risky surrender, and from the many 'safe' gods to the God whose love has no limits."
Through these movements, God's grace at work in us cultivates peace within ourselves, peace with our neighbors, and peace with God.When I began this book I thought I would be able to fly through it in a week, but like anything else as rich as this, time and space had to be allowed between bites.
And so it really became a sort of devotional--three to four pages a day was enough to sustain my mind and heart.At the center of all of these movements is prayer, and while this book is not necessarily a "prayer book," that's only because it is less concerned with the how-tos of prayer and more focused on the transformation that a life of prayer will lead us to.
Nouwen comes from a different theological and praxeological background than I do.
Writing from such a different background I found this book incredibly helpful and stirring in my spiritual journey.
Nouwen breaks up his book in three sections: Transforming Loneliness to Solitude, Transforming Hostility to Hospitality, and Transforming Illusion to Prayer.He was able to put into words so many of the things I have experienced both culturally and personally.
He addresses my fears of loneliness and aloneness, "stranger danger", and mistaking my imagination for spirituality.
I am currently experiencing extended spiritual growth as God is using the information from this book to slowly transform my heart.
This book was discussed weekly with serious Christian women, so the book was especially meaningful.
The three movements are from loneliness to solitude, which means knowing ourselves; from hostility to hospitality; from illusion to prayer.
One of the most helpful discussions to me was on hospitality.
It can mean recommendation of good books, referral to people with special talents, and bringing the right people together.
Mainly, we can offer space with safe boundaries.
It was a great review for me to make a list of the people who have been special encouragements to me in my Christian life, personally and through books.
My church was reading this book together, and I found much that made sense to me in it. It shows how holding onto our loneliness, hostility and illusions separates us from each other and therefore from God. Nouwen provides some practical advice and insights for growing closer to our essence and growing in our reliance upon God. There are some concepts in this book that require deep thought; it is not a book to be read quickly even though it is short. But its insights into human nature and growing spiritually make the time and concentration worthwhile.
Not my favorite Nouwen book, but profound nonetheless. Reaching Out covers three aspects of spiritual life: the inward journey from loneliness to solitude, the outward journey from hostility to hospitality, and the upward journey from illusions (about God) to prayer. The section on loneliness to solitude was especially meaningful as it is key for any person to be able to move outward or upward.
I have recently discovered the wonderful writings of Henri J. M. Nouwen. In Reaching Out, Nouwen presents his thoughts on what it means to live a Christian life: reaching out to our innermost self, to our fellow human beings, and to our God. I am looking forward to studying this book in greater detail.
Un essai puissant qui rejoindra quiconque est engagé dans son développement spirituel.
This was a wonderful PROFOUND book that is not hard to read. Just fabulous. It gave me a new way of thinking about the deep sorrows of this life, and the incredible joys .
