https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1329097.The_Technique_of_the_Love_Affair
I quite enjoyed this old-fashioned book on attracting and playing with men's affections. Although I don't think many women will be dumbing down anytime soon (some of the advice given). I still think there are some good techniques here that will forever remain timeless. I like how the author tells the reader not to repeat any of this information to men (evil) otherwise all of our cunning ploys will be foiled. God dammit it! A top-secret book.
Man catching manual from the twenties, combining the insights of Darwin and Machiavelli.
The GoodCan't say if the man-catching strategies work or not.
Norrie Epstein has added some interesting anthropological/historic/literary footnotes.
Hopefully they'll come to me without my having to plow through the book again.The BadHas the distinction of having been reviewed by Dorothy Parker.
90% of that review is actually devoted to a book called Favorite Jokes of Famous People.
The book itself is curtly dismissed for its "abominable style and its frequent sandy stretches." Also, some of those anthropological/historic/literary footnotes are ham-fisted and redundant.
Not what I was expecting! It is interesting in a historical way and I was hoping to get an interesting character study but got more of a weird 1920s Dear Abby flapper edition. I mean, for what it is it is cute but not what I really was expecting. Wah.
This is a reprint of a 1920's book with annotations. Written as instruction from the older, more sophisticated woman to a younger, more naive one, it reminded me a lot of the more recent "The Rules." Probably shouldn't be too surprised since men haven't changed that much.
Very erotic and shocking for a 78 yr old book. Common sense things women should already know but don't put into practice.
Fun... I love books books of a 'certain age' addressing all to contemporary issues of my life!
I found the advice as apt today as the year it was written and will probably give a copy to my niece when she finishes college. Maybe even sooner.
A Socratic dialogue about something that actually matters.
