https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30653853-the-upside-of-unrequited
I can’t decide if this is funny or sad, but I’ve spent so much time wanting a boyfriend that I can’t imagine not wanting one. I can imagine saying I don’t want one. But I can’t imagine it being true. I'm really surprised to see so many positive reviews of The Upside of Unrequited from GR members who thought Holding Up the Universe was problematic. To me, this is more of the same. This might be the author who brought us the wonderful and hilarious Simon vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda, but these cha
the Homo Sapiens Agenda, but these characters contained none of the charm that Simon & Co. possessed.To summarize why I didn't like this book in two points:1) I felt absolutely no connection to any of the characters.
It seemed like the author put a lot of effort into creating a diverse cast, which is great, and yet she forgot to develop their personality, charms and quirks, so that they became defined by their marginalization.Molly is the most well-developed character and even that is not saying much.
If I had such a giant ego, why would I have such a hard time believing Reid actually likes me?Except, if I’m totally honest, I do believe it.
I have a fierce love for this book. Molly has such a winning voice and winning heart and yup, Becky remains one of my favorite authors ever. (Just reread as an audiobook and it's amazing!)
I loooooved this! I found it to be so relatable and just amazing. Stayed tuned for a review/discussion to hear more thoughts!
It's been my bathroom book, if you know what I mean.
DO you know what I mean?
I mean, I keep it in my bathroom so when I...you know...I read.
I got so sucked into this story, though, that I was in my bathroom for five hours straight.
Counting down the days until I get to watch Love, Simon because I also loved that book and can't wait for the movie.
But I'm actually going to the theater to see that movie with my book club.
I'm not watching it in my bathroom.
I don't think my book club would enjoy that.
Here’s the first I recorded, from page forty-five.After a loooong, boring conversation in which Molly’s cousin Abby whines about whether she’s a slut or not after having sex with the boy with whom she’s in a committed relationship, Molly hits us with the following gag-worthy interpretation of what the word slut should mean in the face of feminism: “Here’s what I would never, ever admit out loud: a part of me always thought it was some kind of a secret compliment when someone got called a slut.
It's extremely diverse (at least 50%, if not more, of the cast is queer and POC), it deals really honestly and accurately with anxiety, the protagonist is fat, it's about love but also about growing up and feeling left behind, and IT'S STINKIN' ADORABLE.The writing is, of course, BRILLIANT.
But I still loved her for her totally relatable feelings that everyone around her was growing up and she just felt like SHE WASN'T.
EXCEPT: SQUEEEEEEEE.I think this book was less funny, and less nerdy than Simon Vs. Which is probably why I'm a little less in love with it.
So many good things to say, so little time.Before I get into the quality of the book, let me just give you a breakdown of the diversity represented here because it was honestly incredible and this is the exact world that I want to see in YA contemporaries from now on.-Pansexual (on page) side character who is also Korean-American-Multiple lesbian side characters-Bisexual side character-Minor gay characters-Jewish main character, side characters, and love interest-Main character has two moms-Multiple black side characters-Although there were no on-page asexual characters, asexuality was still included as a thing that exists-Fat main character-Main character also has a history of anxiety which she is on medication for and this is brought up A LOT along with how going to parties works differently for her because of the dangers of mixing her medication with alcoholThere are so many more but LOOK AT THIS LIST.
(So like, what you would normally expect from Becky) [But speaking of Becky's other books, I would definitely recommend reading [book:Simon vs.
It was a breath of fresh air to experience all this individuality in one book!I also feel it was a really realistic portrayal of teenagers, like REEEAALLLLY realistic compared to a lot of other YA titles.
It's just one of those reads that you fly through because you really really enjoy it, and you exit the story with just amusement and entertainment, which is still a really great thing!I'd highly highly recommend The Upside of Unrequited!
♥ My April Owlcrate ♥ I'm on the toilet at the 9:30 Club, and I'm wondering how mermaids pee.
This isn't random.
There's a mermaid Barbie attached to the door of the bathroom here.
Which is a pretty odd choice for a bathroom mascot.
If that's even a thing.
Bathroom mascots.
This book had me at those first few lines and yes I'm weird and NO, I don't care.
I loved this book so much =) When I first read the summary of this book, I thought I probably won't like it.
Then I got it in my Owlcrate and s
I loved this book so much =) When I first read the summary of this book, I thought I probably won't like it.
=) I love when I get these young adult books that make me feel all good inside.
I love them like fresh baked chocolate chip cookies!
This book had me laughing out loud so hard and I really needed that, although, laughing so hard when not feeling good with a tummy ache isn't the best thing.
Molly gave both of them nicknames: Mina of the LabiaMiddle Earth ReidYou have to read the book to find out how they got these names.
I AM MUSH, PEOPLE! FUCKIN' MUSH! This book has made me flail with excitement several times. I LOVED IT SO MUCH! I don't think I'm going to review this book. What are reviews anyway?! Who decides they have to be coherent and whatnot? My overexcitement alone shows how perfect every single page was for me and how much I loved it. AND SO I WANT TO THROW THIS BOOK AT EVERYONE SO THEY CAN READ IT AND DIE OF CUTENESS AND HAPPINESS! GAAAH MY BRAIN IS NOT FUNCTIONING RIGHT NOW. OVER AND OUT!
A new all time favorite.It means so much to me to see a character who looks and thinks like myself (she's fat and has anxiety, both of which are own voices representation) in a romance story because I 100% WAS Molly at 17, pining over unrequited crushes and feeling so much insecurity about pursuing them.Aside from Molly being one of the most relateable characters I've ever read, the rest of the story held up.
People with anxiety do have high days but it absolutely does not mean their insecurities go away forever.
Her sister doesn’t seem to be daunted by anything; she even got herself a really cute girlfriend in a short amount of time.Becky Albertalli did a fairly good job illustrating themes such as first love, twin connection, equality, sexuality and coming of age, which is what this book is—a Bildungsroman.
One from Molly, which we do have, and one from her twin sister, Cassie, because, although it’s part of the story, Cassie keeps many things from her sister.
I do, however, believe Becky Albertalli writes about/analyses interesting topics using interesting references and detail, but her writing itself did not impress me in any way.
Let's teach people that the only way to achieve high self esteem is by boys liking you back!
I'm not sure I will enjoy her books.
I was so frustrated by the fact Molly was basically basing her self worth on her friends attempts to get her a boyfriend it overshadowed the rest of the plot.
Not only that, but I felt this book was incredibly childish.
I could see what this book was trying to achieve, but for me it fell short.
For a positive, though, I will say the final chapter warmed my heart (took the whole book) and Molly's mum's were incredibly sweet.
This whole thing was hilariously real and wonderfully done.
And I don't want to be a joke." Cassie: Molly's lesbian twin sister who gets a girlfriend at the start of the story.
Molly has to figure out how her relationship with her sister will evolve as they grow up.
Molly & Cassie are sperm donor babies to an interracial couple (one of whom is bisexual), so the story does an awesome job of calling out some of the nonsense everyone faces.
But Molly's hilarious narration, the realistic dialogue, and all of the characters made the book SO strong.
I'd rate this 4.5 stars.Becky Albertalli, how do I love thee? Let me count the ways...I fell in complete and utter love with Albertalli's first book,  Simon vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda  (see my original review). I devoured it in less than a day, and it was a no-brainer that the book showed up on my list of the best books I read in 2015.As you might imagine, the minute her newest book,  The Upside of Unrequited , came out, I pounced. I bought it at like 12:01 a.m. on the day it was released—I set
While I'll admit I found Molly's inability to express her feelings or thoughts to anyone tremendously frustrating at times, I understand that doing so poses a challenge for anyone, especially someone who suffers from anxiety.There was just so much to love about this book—dialogue and behaviors that actually seemed teen-like, as opposed to old-beyond-their-years; the flush of excitement that accompanies crushes, first loves, and infatuation; boys I could totally see myself crushing on if I was that age; and the realistic relationships between sisters, friends, parents and children, and those who like each other.
Re-read 4/24/18: Still think this was mega cute, still love me a great fat main character. Also: WOW I forgot how cute Reid is. Have mercy. This was adorable. I’m SO excited for Leah’s book now!!Original read 4/25/17: This book was mega cute. Not as good as Simon in my opinion, but still so good. And it was amazingly refreshing to read a book about a fat girl that actually accurately represents what it's like to be a fat girl and I AM SO ABOUT IT. So great.
“I want to know what it feels like to have crushes that could conceivably maybe one day turn into boyfriends.”This was once again a very honest and real story by Becky Albertalli.
The reason why books like Becky's resonate so much with teenagers and young adults is because in them we feel understood.
We see ourselves in these characters, in their struggles and in their dreams.I also love that Becky talks this openly about sex.
Then again, these are YA novels, not sex ed books...but still.All that is left to say is that I seriously cannot wait for Leah on the Offbeat and What If It's Us. I want them NOW.Find more of my books on Instagram
2.75/5 stars  I don’t entirely understand how anyone gets a boyfriend. Or a girlfriend. It just seems like the most impossible odds. You have to have a crush on the exact right person at the exact right moment. And they have to like you back. A perfect alignment of feelings and circumstances. It’s almost unfathomable that it happens as often as it does.  I think there should be a law in place that bans terrible books, especially when they are a follow up to an incredible debut.  Simon vs. the Ho
Turns out, everything I knew about the universe was wrong because this book is absolutely nothing like Simon.The Upside of Unrequited?
Which shouldn't be hard, honestly, as there are not one, but two possible love interests in this book.
The way everything is worded is like Molly is speaking her story aloud and someone is trying to transcribe it.
She was a bitch the entire book but that was dismissed because she's the main character's twin sister.
I know one of them lives over in Georiga with Simon, but I got these two confused so many times in the entire book.
4.5 starsThis. Was. SO. Cute. There were tears of joy, such a delightful read!
Even though she's like 27 guys Molly hasn't done anything with a boy and she can't help but question how much of it has to do with her as a person and people's inability to want her.
Anyway I enjoyed this book a lot even though I don't think I'm in the place where I need something like this but I do think it be even better for someone who is in that place that Molly's in and dealing with growing up and learning to be in relationships and readjusting to friendships changing.
by the end of the book this just seemed like one of those “i got a boyfriend and now i love myself!” stories.
as a fat girl, the message to me just kinda seemed like “i can’t accept myself until i know i’m lovable." i would have loved to read a book about a fat girl coming to terms with her size, but this just felt very contingent on the love interest.additionally, this book is sort of about how molly has had 26 crushes that she never pursued and so she felt like she NEEDED to have a first kiss and get a boyfriend.
by the end of the book i was reading some of the text messages and dialogue out loud to bonnie and we were both like ...
I liked this one but definitely enjoyed Simon v. more! :)
4.5 stars "If I like a guy, I'm supposed to tell him.
Maybe in Cassie's world, you can do that and have it end in making out.
But I'm not so sure it works that way for fat girls." So this review is going to be a little personal.
By that, I mean I'm going to ramble and waste ten minutes of your time, depending on how fast you read.
Free feel to grab a bagel.When I was sixteen, the standard YA age, I was a painfully introverted kid.
Not the fun John Green kind, but the really sad kind that makes y
(Sixteen-year-old Natalie sounds like a mess, doesn't she?) My disability is a form of muscular dystrophy.
In that moment, I was sixteen again, with the wisdom of twenties Natalie to balance it out.Molly speaks to us.
But we all feel insecure about our bodies at some point in time, one way or another.
It goes far beyond a boy loving you, which is why I mentioned Molly's shoes are tempered with twenties Natalie's mentality.Look at that mirror, girl.
"Because I don't want to be a girl who needs a boyfriend,"I say."Well, of course you don't need one,"Nadine says.
3 Stars  ”I mean, here’s the thing I don’t get. How do people come to expect that their crushes will be reciprocated? Like, how does that get to be your default assumption?”  I’ve officially three-starred every Becky Albertalli book and no one is more disappointed than me. Because here’s the thing— Albertalli really and truly understands being a teenager. She gets the dark/silly humor. She gets texting conversations. She gets the awkwardness and she gets the uncertainty and anxiety that can come
Molly is an exceptionally relatable narrator to me, and shows Albertalli also understands what being a plus-sized teenager can be like.
The way Molly relates her perception of self (and the notable ways she doesn’t) to her continued single-status open  some really important discussions about society’s expectations and how it can warp our own.
But unfortunately, Molly continues to define herself through her relationship status.
But instead of developing her own sense of identity Molly gets that big-first kiss and suddenly feels validated.
Because it almost feels like confirming her earlier assumptions— that getting a boyfriend did validate her.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #22: A Book with Alliteration in the TitleNormally I would rate this 3 stars (it was pretty juvenile) but I just really appreciate how much diversity and love/acceptance this book holds. I also really enjoyed (and was pleasantly surprised by) all of the cameos from  Simon Vs. the Homo Sapiens Agenda, and it was perfect timing to read this right after I finished re-reading that book. All in all, a fun read!
This was so cute omg
4.5/5Oh the adorableness! Such a cute, diverse read! I can see why so many people love this book! It's so adorable and super diverse and the main character is so relatable!!This is a perfect summer read!I did dock off half a star because so much cussing which honestly is just a personal preference and I did find the writing to be a tad to simplistic. Other than that I seriously loved this book!
Where's a time machine when you need one?
Adored this even more the second time. I can't wait for the world to meet Molly. I've never connected with a character this strongly before. This was me in highschool!
All very interesting and well written.My favorite YA trope makes an appearance: lists.
Seems like YA characters are always making lists.
Molly doesn't let us down as she gives us a list of her crushes.Speaking of YA tropes - YA books always seem to make teens sound more sophisticated than I remember being and more sophisticated than I feel now (I'm looking at you, John Green!).
With this book I think the author did a good job of making the teenagers seem more realistic in their dialogue.If you are a YA fan, this has to be on your list.
