https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103159.The_Forsyte_Saga
A month later having explored Belem, Santarem and a few other small places I found myself in Manaus, 1,000 miles up the Amazon.
Travelling by small boat, bus, river boats and sometimes walking miles to reach another place on the red laterite road to get to another tributary and another boat, several days later we reached the village.
During that journey there there had been long periods of just waiting while trees were chopped down to bypass huge potholes - ones big enough to have 6' Victoria Regina water lilies floating in them - and I read the only book I brought, the 800+ page Forsyte Saga.
Like all families, Galsworthy has created a world of very real and human characters in the Forsyte family; a family bound as much by their name, and at times even their dysfunction.
Many of the novel's characters exhibit the full range of emotion and feeling, including: love, greed, hatred, passion, jealousy, lust, truth, honesty, betrayal, and so forth; it is all there within this family - The Forsytes.
For those who love novels of and about England, The Forsyte Saga is a must read.
Ako ste u prilici odgledajte novu verziju BBC-jeve serije snimljene po ovom romanu, pre nekoliko godina... sjajno je urađenja...
It appears to me rotten.'”It is the unhappily married woman referred to here around whom much of The Forsyte Saga revolves.
Irene (I-reen-ee), disastrously married to a “man of property,” is the antithesis of a Forsyte.
Before reluctantly marrying Soames Forsyte, she extracted a promise that he would let her go if it didn't work out.
The Forsyte Saga features a huge cast of characters but the family tree that accompanies most editions is needed only at the beginning.
Galsworthy does veer a little towards what would be considered sentimentalism nowadays, but he avoids the overt mawkishness which now makes quite a substantial amount of the literature of that period nigh on unreadable - for me, at any rate.The double focus of the book - on the Forsyte family, and on the marriage between Soames and Irene Forsyte - is interesting, and I think helps to reinforce what Galsworthy was trying to get at: the futility of acquiring money and material goods while neglecting the things which truly matter in life.
Galsworthy's classic is probably best approached in mid-life, when the truth begins to dawn that an Age, like Keats' joy, is only really sighted as it's waving good-bye.
May prove to be a good deal more.Composed as a trilogy connected by two short stories, the saga of the Forsyte family is a lengthy work taking place in Britain at the tail end of the Victorian Age. Central as a tent post here is the character of Soames Forsyte, a man of property, whose restricted vision of life imbues him with the rock-hard stability his extended family requires to keep their affairs in order.
The Forsytes, though representative of their kind, are not homogeneous and there are dissenters within the ranks.Old Jolyon, the patriarch of the clan, appears as stolid and respectable as any English gentleman behind his cloud of cigar smoke, but beneath the surface is a restlessness and love of beauty that is belied by his club dinners, calling cards and investments in the four-percents.
(hide spoiler)]The Forsyte Saga  is a story of family, of love and loss, of change and the amazing ability for some things to stay the same.
Galworthy was focused upon property in so many different varieties: the sense of possession that men had of their wives in his time amid archaic laws about divorce; the building of a home that ends in unexpected expense in chancery; the elusive value of works of art; the subtleties of property from family crests, clubs, colleges and occupational status and cuts of mutton to the blatant futility of fighting over land in South Africa during the Boer War -- it's all shallow and empty materialism in the end.
Galsworthy seemed to me like a sort of British Tolstoy writing in England for property reform.

Pero no importa, porque lo importante es cómo se cuenta, no tanto el qué.En cierto sentido me recuerda a la serie "Downton Abbey", que es un culebrón disfrazado de serie de época, pero se diferencian en que si bien ambas hablan de una familia pudiente y los cambios suscitados en Gran Bretaña a principios del siglo XX (aunque "La saga de los Forsyte" es más victoriana, añadiendo el final del siglo XIX), "La saga de los Forsyte" es mucho más un comentario social de la época y una crítica a ciertos aspectos de la misma.
I see I lost the slip of paper where I write page numbers and the little notes for the book report.
"His heart made a faint demonstration within him while he stood in full south sunlight on the newly whitened doorstep of that little houses where four Forsytes had once lived, and now but one dwelt on like a winter fly; the house into which Soames had come and out of which he had gone times without number, divested of, or burdened with, fardels of family gossip; the house of the 'old people' of another century, another age."That house.
Took quite a while to come to terms with all of the characters and their relationship with one another in this epic tome. The three novels primarily centre around Soames Forsyte, his wife Irene and the house he contracts to build for her that would ultimately have such far reaching repercussions. This novel has it all, memorable characters, loves lost and gained, drama, and yes melodrama. It's a novel of family ties, respectability and money.Enjoyed the first novel very much but it was the final novel that was particularly poignant and bittersweet. Well worth a look at.
The Forsyte Saga (The Forsyte Chronicles #1-3), John Galsworthy
The family saga of Forsytes, who at the beginning smell an intruder amongst them (Bosinney the architect, engaged to June), examines how the far-reaching consequences of a certain love affair molds each person and generation in its own way.The solicitor Soames considers his wife Irene as his property, the way you do with beautiful paintings that you parade in front of others.
The elder Jolyon feels lonely and tries to patch things up with his son with the same name, who separated himself from the Forsyte family by leaving his wife and marrying another woman.
Finally finished!
The book tells the tale of several generations of Forsytes; their failures, their successes, their families, their relationships, their thoughts, their worries and dreams.
The saga contains multiple love relationships, some doomed, others a tremendous success, still others, happily, never come to fruition.Although the character of Soames Forsyte is the easiest to dislike, by the end of the book I felt a strange sadness for him; he never realized what he did wrong, or why it was wrong.
Sad, ultimately, that he did as he was born to do, and no better.
What makes the book so meaningful, to me, is the depth of the souls Galsworthy presents for our dissection and how beautifully human and flawed they all are.I want to drone on about this book, but I do not want to give away anything for those who might decide to read it, and it would be so hard to discuss anything salient without divulging the secrets that lurk at the heart of the novel.
Suffice it to say, I would recommend this highly to anyone who enjoys reading about people who might have lived, indeed might still live dressed up in different garb and lured by money more than by love.If I were to compare Galsworthy's writing to anyone, it would be Edith Wharton.
Because of the ridiculously small font in my copy of this I actually read it on my Kindle in the three separate volumes (The Man of Property, In Chancery & The Forsyte Saga: To Let) it was originally published in. For me, the sum of the three books taken together adds up to way more than if you consider each book individually. I would definitely recommend reading them as one book.
Esta familia y cada uno de sus miembros se van a quedar conmigo durante mucho tiempo...
An epic saga of a single extended family which spans several generations, Galsworthy creates characters that are human and fallible, noble, kind and cruel.
The Saga comprises of three novels and two "interludes" or short stories between the novels.
The first interlude of the saga, "Indian Summer of a Forsyte," is one of the most beautiful and poignant works I have ever read.In addition to this first work, Galsworthy continued the story of the Forsytes for another two complete epics, creating nine novels in all.
He also created a series of short stories to fill in elements of the characters backstories.
One of those books you want to back up, turn around and read again. Loved it!
Ето това вече е шедьовър.
Всъщност не всички части - някои са по-слаби (частта с последното поколение не ме впечатли, героите не бяха плътни и убедителни), но примерно онази със смъртта на Джолиън старши е не за пет, а за 10 звезди.
Този роман, заедно с "Война и мир", са любимите на майка ми, а тя е изчела доста.
И когато изчетох частта със смъртта на Джолиън старши, така се развълнувах, че за пръв път си записах няколко цитата и отидох при нея.
Пропуснах да спомена, че майка ми страда от деменция.
И въпреки това мозъкът й отказва да изтрие тази книга.
Ето това е истинското изкуство.
It is the subtle way Nobel Prize winner Mr. Galsworthy brings us through this rough, transitionary time that makes this saga (and it is a saga) great instead of just good or interesting.
On a smaller scale, we see the transition from carriages to automobiles and bicycles; and it takes us through different phases of art and culture.
At the heart of the story is a scandalous incident that happens at the very beginning and affects generations.
The central figure is the complex, tragic and generally unlikable antagonist which I found facinating and different from other books I've been reading.
Ultimately this book is about family and home.
Definitely worth the effort and time.
“The Forsyte Saga, first published under that name in 1922, is a series of three novels and two interludes (intervening episodes) published between 1906 and 1921 by Nobel Prize-winning English author John Galsworthy.
I cannot think of a single positive thing to say about this book at all.
One of the most boring books I have ever had the misfortune to open at all.
I only finished it because I am so anally retentive about finishing books!
Almost amazing, it is a thought provoking soap opera. I have spoilers at Indian Summer of a Forsyte and in Chancery This period of English history seemed similar in a material way to the post WWII rise of the American middle-class and its deterioration since the mid 1960's. Just don't expect perfection it's not what I call literary-fiction but vastly superior to Poldark.
There came a point midway through the first book (the Saga is comprised of three, with two interstitial novellas) when I settled in and embraced the way this story was going to present the world of an extended family and the changing England around it, and the rewards of that experience, while subtle, are deep and lasting.It’s been a while since I’ve read Trollope, but he is the author I thought of while reading Galsworthy - not as much for the social commentary, though that is present in The Forsyte Saga, and only partially because of the considerable length, but for the deft handling of a story both so broad and so personal, it would fall to pieces (or never cohere to begin with) in the hands of a less skilled writer.The Forsytes are a family that begins the Saga as part of a newly emerging, wealthy, non-aristocratic class in and around London at the end of the nineteenth century, and ends having established itself as a reputable if fading social institution by the 1920s.
The more I see of people the more I am convinced that they are never good or bad – merely comic, or pathetic. The Beginning: Those privileged to be present at a family festival of the Forsytes have seen that charming and instructive sight – an upper middle-class family in full plumage.The Forsyte Saga was an amazing journey. At first I found it a bit confusing because of the many characters, and there were parts I found a bit dull. But somewhere during the first part, it really got interesting.
Moreover, we get to see characters who make the same mistakes again and again; characters who never get any wiser.He might wish and wish and never get it – the beauty and the loving in the world!The one thing that defines the plot in The Forsyte Saga is the unhappy marriage between Soames and Irene Forsyte.
Irene develops throughout the novel; she both learns and pays from her mistakes.
It’s seems he has never learned what love is and how to connect with another human being.
He is perhaps one of the most pathetic characters I’ve ever encountered on a page.
I don't know how many times I've watched this mini series; it's one of the best series ever.
Not to talk about the fashion in it and the beautiful Irene, I remember watching it as a teenager with fascination and foreboding, loving Irene but at the same time feeling sorry for her, who would want her lot in life even with her beauty?
I would love to own her mourning clothes from episode one, especially the one where she plays the piano when Soames proposes with the watch dangling gently from her belt, it would make a hell of a gown, the skirt alone is remarkable!
This was a five star read for me until suddenly it wasn’t.Chronicling three generations of an upper middle class British family it presents a lustrous portrait of the Victorian era bookended by personal restraint and societal constraints.
Soames’ unreciprocated passion for his wife is disguised by a milieu that regards wives as chattel; unable to possess her, legally he still ‘owns’ her.
It is this unrequited passion and his refusal to let go that reverberates across two generations.
Inciter of innumerable passions and first wife of Soames, she is completely lifeless on the page.
The Forsytes are not titled or noblemen, but they are upper middle class, and they are good at one thing, making money.
They aren't so good at many other things, like love and adapting to new ways.I do enjoy sprawling family sagas, and I really enjoyed this one too, but did not love it.
John Galsworthy creates a main character, Soames Forsyte, that is just disagreeable to me.
Galsworthy won the Noble prize, based for a large part on this work.
And while I did not like the character, I did enjoy the book very much.
This is not a Victorian novel - it was written in the 1920s or 30s - but much of the novel takes place in Victorian times. It's the story of the Forsyte family, spanning several generations and several wars, and its obsession with "property." This has got to be one of the juiciest soap operas in print, and yet it is still full of substance and lessons for living. Watch out, it's a page turner! As much as I love reading Victorian novels, they rarely keep me up at night, but this one did on several occasions.
