https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32075861-the-essex-serpent
‘Sometimes I think I sold my soul, so that I could live as I must. Oh, I don’t mean without morals or conscience—I only mean with freedom to think the thoughts that come, to send them where I want them to go, not to let them run along tracks someone else set, leading only this way or that…’ Frowning, she ran her thumb along the serpent’s spine and said, ‘I’ve never said this before, not to anyone, though I’ve meant to: but yes I’ve sold my soul, though I’m afraid it didn’t fetch too high a pric
Shedding her London home, (At Euston Square and Paddington the Underground stations received their passengers, who poured in like so much raw material going down to be milled and processed and turned out of molds.) and indulging her growing interest in paleobiology, Cora, along with her on-the-spectrum son, Francis, and his nanny, Cora’s friend Martha, heads to Colchester, in Essex.
“Immediately, I thought if that beast came back in the Victorian era, post-Darwin, when there was a trend for natural history and people were fossil-collecting, people would have a very different response from those in the 17th century, who had seen this beast.”- from The Guardian interview The structure of the core conflict came to Perry in a flash… between myth and superstition and faith and reason and science and all of those clashing over this one potential beast.
‘’Come tomorrow, if you like, to the grave. I said I’d go alone, but perhaps that’s the point; perhaps we are always alone, no matter the company we keep.’’ This novel is as complex, as beautiful and mesmerizing as its cover. It is astonishing, an exciting, majestic literary journey. It deserves all the recognition it gets and then some. It is plain and simple one of the most beautiful, unique novels I’ve ever read. There will be no ‘’but’’ or ‘’or’’ in my review. ‘The Essex Serpent’ is perfect
For Cora, freedom comes through the death of her husband, a man as tyrannical as he was cold, whose personality can be traced in Francis, Cora’s son, who is an intriguing child, but highly unlikeable.
Their dusty lives constantly influence the young ones and when Cora or Luke try to put some sense into their heads, they’re scorned and attacked.
The dialogue is perfection, the moments when Perry describes the actions and the state of mind of our main characters simultaneously contain some of the most exquisite pieces of writing I’ve recently found in a novel (and I have found a plethora…).
In the harshness of the weather it had worn down to little more than a dozen black curved posts that looked so much like the opened chest cavity of a drowned beast that visitors took to calling it Leviathan.* In addition to its Gothic vibe, the book undoubtedly reads like a classic with its formal language suitable to the time in which the story takes place (late nineteenth century England), lingering standards of Victorian morality, and men taking special care to be mindful of antiquated notions such as feminine sensibilities.
Cora Seaborne, newly widowed by a sadistic but wealthy husband, and now free to follow her interests in palaeontology, finds herself in the Essex village of Aldwinter, where rumours of a sea serpent lurking in the always-(conveniently)-foggy bay have the locals in a superstitious tizz.
But then Will’s wife coughs, and instantly, if you've ever seen any costume drama ever, you know what’s going to happen to her.I have to say that, for me, The Essex Serpent, never really came alive as a novel.
As a result, Perry’s Victorian age doesn’t quite convince — everyone was far too nice and understanding, instead of being gossipy (a married vicar carrying on with a widow!), disapproving and censorious.
In seeming contradiction to his career path, Will is more suspicious than many of the other characters of things he doesn’t understand and can’t explain away, like hypnosis and a Fata Morgana.The novel’s nuanced treatment of faith and doubt is enhanced by references to Victorian science, including fossil hunting and early medical procedures.
Moreover, Perry adroitly illuminates the situation of the independent “New Woman” and the quandary of science versus religion (which were the joint subjects of my dissertation: women’s faith and doubt narratives in Victorian fiction).I’m delighted, especially having seen Perry speak at Bloxham Festival in February (see my write-up for more on her background and the inspirations behind this novel), to have liked The Essex Serpent three times as much as her debut.
We are cleaved together - we are cleaved apart - everything that draws me to you is everything that drives me away. How I loved holding this book in my hands, with the gorgeous William Morris cover and the soft, uneven deckle-edged pages. While perusing this lovely volume, I revelled in the gothic atmosphere. I looked forward to the intimate letters and notes sprinkled throughout the narrative. I was intrigued by the mystery of the serpent, the palpable fear of those in the damp, mossy, seaside
Other than that, she created a truly accessible tale, with themes and situations that are more modern than one might have imagined, in this gothic, Victorian book that boasts the spectres of Stoker, Shelley, Collins and Dickens.Fear is the serpent that slithers throughout this book's pages.
It is fear of our spiritual path, or lack of one.This book does not provide answers, just a platform for the human heart - cleaved - and oh, it is such a beautiful thing to behold.
Oh, I don’t mean without morals or conscience – I only mean with freedom to think the thoughts that come, to send them where I want them to go, not to let them run along tracks someone else set, leading only this way or that..." When she comes up against the likes of Will Ransome, an improbable friendship as well as an intellectually rewarding rivalry ensues.
Cora is too recently liberated from the authority of a man and besides has the devotion of another man, Dr. Luke Garrett.
I recommend The Essex Serpent to fans of historical fiction or anyone interested in the debate between faith and science.
Certainly, serpents were mentioned, people seemed flustered about it but the entire thing lacked any kind of narrative tension or gothic edge, unless you count the odd fog.
This is certainly not a Victorian romance novel then.One could read it for passing social commentary on the dire state of housing in Bethnal Green or perhaps for an interesting account of medical procedures of the era.
I somehow missed something in this book that resonated with other readers, perhaps one needed to fall in love with Cora as well.
In my opinion if you need to read a "contemporary Victorian novel" it has to be Faber's "Crimson Petal and the White"
The underlying premise of the novel is a conflict at the heart of the Victorian age – science vs superstition, free thinking vs prudishness.
Clearly the sea serpent, last seen in 1669, has returned.
Virtually no character in this novel has their amorous feeling returned.
Perry does a fabulous job not only of dramatizing the sea serpent as metaphor of sexual desire but also of sustaining the possibility of the monster actually appearing throughout the novel.
Her Victorians are no less imaginative, sexually bold, open to new ideas than we are; the implication being that we are no less prone to superstition, nighttime terrors and blind prejudice than they were.
They slither and slip and slide through all of our lives at some point...
❃❁ Glorious prose that made me smile from beginning to end, just reading those carefully composed sentences, the poetry of Perry's words, the sense that she loved writing them and making sure they said just the right thing, in just the right way.
❃That's the word for me when thinking back on The Essex Serpent: satisfying.(view spoiler)[My favorite part: a man at his lowest, self-flagellating - the snake of doubt having made a home in his heart - begins to enact his suicide plan.
What a surprisingly charming book!Nominated for both The Women’s Prize and The Costa Book Award, The Essex Serpent is a beautifully written book.
Set in 1893 Essex, England, we meet Cora Seaborne, recently and happily widowed and William Ransome, the town vicor, who is dealing with rumors and superstition of a returning mythical Essex Serpent.
Cora, an amateur naturalist, develops such an interesting friendship with William Ransome.
religion) they entertain us with their sharp dialogue.
Their repertoire is fascinating and at times quite hilarious.Sarah Penny’s book has everything to offer from a well thought out plot, excellent character development, and humorous dialogue.Highly recommend.4.5 out of 5 stars
"STRANGE NEWS, they'd say, of a monstrous serpent with eyes like a sheep, come out of the Essex waters and up to the birch woods and commons..."I know I'm going to love a book when I find myself growing very fond of the characters early on.
Cora is also visited by the impish Luke Garrett, a brilliant surgeon who is openly in love with her, and George Spencer, his good-natured, wealthy colleague who has an eye on Martha.The mystery of the serpent's existence is one of the most compelling aspects of this gripping tale but the many love triangles which abound are even more enthralling.

A completely unexpected treasure! This has everything I look for in a book - lovely writing that you can get lost in, rich dialogue, memorable and lively characters, an imaginative and unusual plot and tons of atmosphere. Goodness! Read this!!
Something Severed, and Something Joined Then it carried me in spate to the Essex shore, to all the marsh and shingle, and I tasted on my lips the salt air which is also like the flesh of oysters, and I felt my heart cleaving, as I felt it there in the dark wood on the green stair and as I feel it now: something severed, and something joined. This is from a letter written near the end of this miracle of a novel by its heroine, a young widow named Cora Seaborne. It is an extension of her earlier r
In particular, there are two books, Lincoln in the Bardo and Go, Went, Gone) to which I gave only 4 stars, but which I recognize as important books, with more staying power than many that I enjoyed more at the time, but have since forgotten.For some reason, three of the ten books (Forest Dark, A Horse Walks into a Bar, and Three Floors Up) are by Jewish authors, set in Israel.
The Essex Serpent is a beautifully written work of historical fiction, absolutely immersing you in 1890s Victorian England, and has a fantastic cast of characters whose attitudes, ideas, and actions are the best parts of the novel.
While she has a dear companion, Martha, in whom she counts on for care of her odd, emotionally detached son Francis, and good friends like Dr Luke Garrett, "the Imp" a surgeon bold in ideas and actions and secretly in love with Cora, she is not connected to anyone by spirit and mind and body in a way that one recognizes a true friend, love, equal.
3.5I liked this novel quite a lot, but I didn't love it and I somehow felt a bit disappointed about that.
It's a good choice of setting as even now it can be bleak and eerie on a winter's day.The sense of place was definitely the strongest part of the book.The characters were well drawn although on several occasions the dialogue was a whisper away from becoming unconvincing and far too 'modern'.
More than a little pretentious in places too.However I feel Perry clearly has a lot of talent and I'll keep a look out for her future work.
This novel is classified in my mind as "A damn good read". Set in Victorian England in the 1890's, it juxtaposes religion, superstition, and science in equal measure, and makes you believe in all of them at the same time. A little bit of Dickens mixed with Wilkie Collins mixed with Sarah Waters, it combines beautiful writing with great characters, a setting both lovely and sinister, and ideas and emotions that are foreign and familiar at the same time. I recommend The Essex Serpent for anyone who wants to get lost in a book for a few days.
Translation widget on the blog!!!O poveste interesantă despre libertatea unei femei scăpate din jugul unui soț abuziv. Despre zborul acesteia spre lumea larga. Un roman despre autocunoaștere, despre viața de zi cu zi și despre oameni și locuri ce influențează destine!Recenzia mea completă o găsiți aici:https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/sar...
Reverend William Ransome, Rector of Aldwinter Parish forbids his children entry to his study; escapes by window when they're at the door; threatens them with bread and water when they're disobedient; detest the pagan celebration of an old shipwreck by the children of the town; "Aside from the church’s curiosities – which were in truth a minor embarrassment to each successive incumbent – the only item of interest within five miles was the blackened hull of the Leviathan, a clipper which could be seen when the Blackwater estuary lay at low tide, and which the village children decorated each harvest in a kind of pagan rite of which he dutifully disapproved".
I should have known that Perry was a promising writer since I read her debut novel After Me Comes The Flood, which was memorably atmospheric if rather more elliptical.The central characters of this book are Cora Seaborne, a young and independent-minded woman who is liberated by the death of her husband, and seeks an outlet in scientific research, inspired by the naturalist Mary Anning.
Perry's grasp of historical detail and the ideas behind these characters is impressive, and the book is a pleasure to read.
But it’s actually the sound of thousands of fans cheering for “The Essex Serpent,” an irresistible new novel by Sarah Perry.Last month, “The Essex Serpent” won the British Book Award, and it’s already sold more than 250,000 copies, which should convince any skeptic that this slippery beast is real.There have been sightings for months in America: tantalizing tweets, shots of its gorgeous cover on Instagram, breathless reports from tourists vacationing in London.
But now the novel has finally washed up on our shores.Admittedly, the Loch Ness Monster has better PR, but the Flying Serpent of Essex has been terrifying residents since it was first reported in 1669.
I imagined that it would be written in an intricate language and that the magical realism would be hard to follow.
I'm not entirely sure you would apply the term 'magical realism' to this novel, but whatever was happening turned out to be very intriguing because it was so mysterious.
I also really liked how the main part of this book is written from a third person narrator, however it is interspersed with personal letters that give you an honest account of the individuals' thoughts and feelings.
Also even though you're not sure it's going to be something for you.
The premise is attractive: a not-so-grieving widow, smitten with fossil-hunting fever, making her way to rural Essex and hearing mysterious rumors of sea serpent sightings in a remote village on the coast.
Here is the half-crazed old widower Cracknell hanging out skinned voles as scarecrows to keep the Essex serpent at bay… their hides hung from their hindquarters like a shadow.
We have a lot of predictable debate on faith vs reason between the widow protagonist Cora Seaborne and her will-they-won’t-they married vicar love interest, William Ransome, but it’s all rather boilerplate and not particularly well meshed with the plot.
The author writes so well it would be a pleasure to read even if there were no story and the characters were boring, which is far from the case.The main character, Cora, is recently widowed and free at last from a controlling man.
Another very interesting character is Luke Garret, a promising surgeon and one of the people in love with Cora.
William Ransome is the other half of the main love story in the book and I actually found him very hard to care for at all.
This reminded me so much of Oscar and Lucinda. That novel also charmed me with the two main characters who were so good, so decent yet were beset by the vagaries of life. Cora and Will are two such, decent, kind people thunder struck by their immediate attachment to each other, although Will is happily married and a parson. That sounds sordid, but nothing could be further from their minds.
2.5★ Well... I loved the cover.In fact one of the most beautiful covers I've ever seen. The contents...not so much.       Set in Victorian England, Ms Perry's writing is so beautiful, so elegant but she couldn't make me care about her heroine, Cora, an abused wife freed by becoming a widow. Cora and her (probably on the spectrum) son Francis move to a village in Essex where she becomes fascinated by the legendary Essex Serpent.Every time I wanted to give up on this book, the writing would draw m
I loved the cover.In fact one of the most beautiful covers I've ever seen.
Set in Victorian England, Ms Perry's writing is so beautiful, so elegant but she couldn't make me care about her heroine, Cora, an abused wife freed by becoming a widow.
Cora and her (probably on the spectrum) son Francis move to a village in Essex where she becomes fascinated by the legendary Essex Serpent.Every time I wanted to give up on this book, the writing would draw me back in.
Lots of my Goodreads friends loved this one, but I found it soulless, except when either Cora's admirer Luke or her dying friend Stella were centre stage.Disappointing.
I could pose a case where “noble suffering” more aptly described one of the female main characters in this novel, and perhaps a couple of the other male characters, too.The other repetition I noticed occurred three times with three different characters – all three reflected how they took for granted someone in their life due to them “always being there”.
We take people for granted sometimes, too, and that’s usually when life throws us a curve-ball and we wake up to gratitude once again.For me, the theme in this novel that stood out strongest is how fears can feed on themselves and then begin to expand exponentially.
(view spoiler)[On a literal level, the Essex serpent is an ancient creature, a living fossil.
The serpent stands for individual and collective guilt, and this theme is exploited on many levels in the characters’ lives.
The villagers see the mysterious Essex serpent as a visitation for wrongdoing.
Then, there is the serpent hoisted on a staff, which is a symbol of the medical profession.
Perry also stokes the social conscience of 19th century England where the Victorian bourgeoisie attempts not quite successfully to improve the lives of the working poor in London.
Landscapes and seasons are described beautifully, too, adding to the impression that the world of The Essex Serpent is a self-contained universe of its own.I won't be the first or last to say that Perry's sophomore novel seems destined for awards and best-of-2016 lists and book-club infamy.
Witness the reviews from some of the book blogs I follow – The Writes of Woman, Savidge Reads, Bookish Beck – and raves from the Guardian, the Independent, the FT and the Times (which called it 'one of the best historical novels of the past decade') to name a few.It's a lovely escapist treat of a story, both cosy and sharp.
