https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111596.Church_History_in_Plain_Language
The Eastern church is, by in large, given fair treatment, but the Great Schism between east and west is hardly mentioned, and all of Eastern Christianity simply disappears immediately after, to reappear only in the 20th century—at least the Russian Orthodox church reappears—first as the victims of, and then as shills for the atheistic Soviet government.Shelley takes great pains to describe the political climate and machinations that contribute to the rise of Christendom and the Roman Catholic church (as if these political events were the underpinning of the entire movement), but he essentially ignores the politics involved in the spread of the Reformation, leaving one to surmise that Protestantism spread solely by its own merit and Divine Will.The major problems I found are related to Shelley's bias shining through the text at key points throughout the narrative.
I feel like this book does an excellent job of outlining Christian history, gives a few juicy details, and then moves on...just enough to make me lick my chops for more!
For me the author's style of writing was enjoyable and I liked how he catagorized his chapters---I am amazed that he was able to take so much history and consolidate it into this 500 page book.
The thought that came to me the most as I was reading is how grateful I am for all those devout and faithful Christians throughout history who have enabled me to have what I have now.
Best church history material I've come across. Well organized, informative, detailed, and written in a way that won't put you to sleep. Love this books. Highly reccomend.
This book is an approachable introduction to the history of the Christian church.
Those seeking a basic understanding of church history (or a quick review of it) will probably be satisfied with what they find in it.
It could be good for church small group study.However, the book lacks two things for the academic reader.
To make the book seem more approachable, Shelley uses endnotes that vaguely refer to parts of each chapter; he does not use superscript numbers to point to these endnotes.
So the book is not so scholarly, despite the fact that its author, Dr. Bruce Shelley, was Senior Professor of Church History and Historical Theology at Denver Seminary.
For a number of years, I've wanted to fill in my lack of knowledge of the history of the church of Christ between the book of Acts and now.
This is a survey, and I think it's accomplished in a very even-handed and understandable way.If you want to get it all in the briefest possible narrative, check out Professor Shelley's Epilogue.
But if you go to the bother of purchasing or checking out this book, you're going to want more than that.Since Professor Shelley has passed beyond history, R.L. Hatchett took on the task of completing this fourth edition, which is so up to date it includes developments from 2013.
This book helps you to palm church history and teach you about groups of people that are simply not remembered in every day life.
It goes into where certain traditions and doctrines came from and how we as the Ecclesia all fit into this crazy world.
It is VERY understandable and is organized in such a way that you can either read straight through like a timeline (although it is a little jumpy) OR you can look up certain groups of people in history and read all about their origins.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who is at all interested in the history of the church.
I'm not against apologetics books.I'm not against Church history books written unashamedly from the Christian POV.I'm not even against shameless mixing of the two.I like books written in plain language.I like good books.This one is not. Neither is in in plain language. This is a bad book, the language is above all boring to death. What the book lacks in style, it has in abundance in bad history and pitiful apologetics. I can't understand how anyone could have read it, even on assignment.
Fantastic! I finished this book with a sense of awe at the work of God, the Architect and Builder of the Church. I also gained a more gracious and inclusive perspective of my fellow Christians in sundry traditions and denominations here and abroad.
He makes no attempt at neutrality, but openly critiques the decisions of various Christians and their theology and declaring them true or false, consistent or inconsistent with scripture, or his own views.For example, in describing the closing of the canon, he asks, “how did it come about that, as Tertullian bitterly put it, 'the Holy Spirit was chased into a book’?” His answer?
The church was becoming secularized.” He describes the rise of bishops this way: “even in the 3rd century many felt that the coming of episcopacy meant the departure of the Spirit.
He described the Spirit’s work in terms of the edification of the entire church.”Not that I object to bias; I even suspect it is unavoidable.
I feel like I was whirled though the history of the world while reading this fascinating book on how churches and their relationship with God, and especially Jesus, evolved.
I admit to skimming some parts, and also to reading some parts aloud to my husband.
:) The main takeaways for me: It is an immense privilege to be able to own and read scripture.
Power corrupts.
There have been so many groups and methods by which Christ has been preached...but the turning point really was the doctrine (again) of individual faith, nailed by Luther to that door...because it is that belief that led to the one who was nailed to the cross -- instead of an organization or institution.
I would encourage church members to read this history book. We have a tendency to think of church culture and even the way we view Christian Life as something that hasn't changed but reading through this book will give you a broader more in depth view of the history of the church.
Wow. Encourage all people to read this. Believers or not. Catholics or Protestants.
All Christians should read this, or something similar. Education is key!
Fairly comprehensive (for a survey) and quite readable -- each chapter is only about 10 pages.
Having said that, 600 pages (with no footnotes taking up space) is a lengthy read!
This is a good feature for a popular level book, but I am a little surprised that it is a staple textbook at many Bible Colleges.
The Further Reading lists at the end of each chapter are good.
The new content in the 3rd edition is an interesting but risky effort to grapple with events of the last 20 years -- some conclusions already seem a little dated even in the 5 years since publication.
The book is a good introduction to Christian history (inside and outside of the church).
It's easy to read and a little bit long but that's okay because Christianity has a long history.The author wrote the book from the christian POV.
He said it in the beginning that the book is destined to the average christian who is ignorant of the history of Christianity.
So while reading the book , I felt that Mr Shelley was on the defensive (read apolegitic), espeacially when he talks about "heritics", the age of reason's thinkers, liberal christians, communists and secularists.
It is impossible for one book to cover the entire church history.
However, if I had to pick one, I would recommend this book.
It's easy and fun to read (remember, history can get a bit dry and the author can get off track in meaningless events), while hitting all the major significant events and persons of the church history.
I love Shelley's thoughtful reflections to the events, not just "this is what happened." And most of all, it gives you a healthy framework of the entire church history and he leaves you with the desire to go further into the topics he briefly covered!
This book was really good.
I was a history minor in college and have read through a few history books.
This book takes the historical approach seriously.
He does a good job at hitting the high notes and making you feel like a part of the story.
My one complaint with the book is not really the authors fault, its the nature of history.
So, many of the themes are overlapping by centuries and half-centuries that you can get side tracked on where he is at on the timeline while on a particular point.
Overall I think it should be one the reading list of every high-schooler in christian schools.
Great start to find out the history of Christianity. I enjoyed it very much, but I'm disappointed there isn't more about U.S. (Mormons, Christian Science, Scientology). Also when it did get to the late 20th century, I thought he lost his steam. But, it made me feel I've got at least a good basic understanding to start learning more.
A good overview that hits the Big Questions of Christian history in an approachable way. Each chapter's suggestions for further reading also intrigue me.
Fantastic read for any lay person or undergraduate course. It is written like a novel and was an easy read. For a more indepth, technical book go read Justo Gonzalez.
Very good.
Great book for folks who want to know church history but don't want to wade through history heavy books. This was my textbook in college for Church History so it's worth the read.
FANTASTIC survey of Church history! Reads like an epic novel. EVERY Christian should invest the time to read this!
Clear, concise , and fascinating. Well worth the time.
If your only going to read one book on the subject, pick this one. Shelley writes with an ease and sensitivity rarely found in histories.
Written in simple and clear language, the 520 pages of contents are informative and yet filled with interesting anecdotes and enticing appetizers while keeping the readers on track in a chronological account of events.The whole book is divided into eight parts, beginning with the ministry of Jesus and ending with the rise of the mega-churches and the challenges that come with globalisation, both much-discussed topics in the 1990s.
This does make it entertaining and gives it a bit of a biographical feel of many of the famous Christians in our history.
What it does mean is that it sometimes skims over periods quite quickly (particularly the early-mid years of the Church) and doesn't always give you a complete picture of the religious and political landscape during that time.
Again, this makes it quite enjoyable to read, but don't come to this book expecting a comprehensive overview of Church history.The book slows down quite a bit over the last 100 years.
Shelley can't decide if he wants to be a churchman or an historian so he flounders between both, following the path of least resistance.He's typically unhelpful, especially in areas of blatant wrongdoing (his defense of the crusades is shady at best, his understanding of mass conversions is shockingly un-evangelical, etc.)For a Protestant, he seems terrified to take stances that could challenge Roman Catholic consensus (including in instances of morally dubious popes).When he arrives at the modern era, he finds the courage to condemn communism, sing the praises of unbridled capitalism (and John D.
They pointed out questionable statements as their areas of expertise intersected with chapter topic.
This is a brilliant book on church history!
In other words, the book reads like a novel and therefore accessible to anyone.The second brilliance of the book is its division.
This divion creates context for the chapters underneath them.Unsurprisingly I learn a lot while reading church history in high level: no particular event happened in a void, there were always circumstances that made certain event necessary.
The growth and expansion of the Church also happened in bursts.
Accessible to everyone and a good high level overview for history nerds.
One of the best books I've read this year.
I’m not sure why this took me fooooorrrrreeevvveer to read (I think my dates are off & I started it more like a year ago).
I finally determined to get it done, but it sure slowed down the rest of my reading.As for the content, I appreciated the approachable language the author used.
-On a related note, while I’m not a cessationist per se, the author presumed to know their motives (fear) rather than discuss the actual theological arguments for/against.
There were a few other items like these where the reasons for differences were blamed on cultural ideals and not necessarily theological study of scripture.
