https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21927526-the-saint-closes-the-case
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Simon Templar tackles arch-villain Dr Rayt Marius in a deadly struggle to save the world from an evil weapon. Stars Paul Rhys.
Charteris wished he'd never written 'Tiger' and 'Enter' was a rewrite of some earlier 'Thriller Magazine' short stories, published within a few months of  Last Hero, in order to give some background to the Saint.
‘Nothing is won without sacrifice.’  Says the last Hero, who interestingly is not The Saint, despite, sarcastically the book's villian awarding Templar that epithet.There is some wonderful, sparkling old fashioned dialogue, I loved this to the villian,"Weren’t you the stern of the elephant in the circus my dear old grandmother took me to just before I went down with measles?
. .’Brilliant!I loved this period thriller and believe it well worth your time!
i started reading the james bond books when i was quite young.
it wasn't that they were not easily available to me - the place where i got my second hand james bond books (and second hand sf, horror and crime books) from was awash with the saint novels - and i think the reason why i passed was a few of the books i looked at were all short stories.
move forward several decades and thanks to my pal paul i have finally read a saint novel.
not the saint of the tv show, and so much the better for that.
I used to watch the TV series of the Saint with my dad when I was little. I've always loved his suave yet romantic idealism, a Knight of the Round Table transplanted into the 20th century. The books do not disappoint :)
Meh. In general, I thoroughly enjoy Saint stories, but this one stretched a bit too far to ever fully draw me into its magic. It is a product of its time, certainly, but even then ... a single half mad scientist inventing a weapon to destroy the world all by himself? Really? Oy.
Review posted on BookLikes:http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/...
An early The Saint novel in which our hero and his helpers rid the world of a dangerous super-weapon.
A thrilling adventure but also a serious plea against the evil that Charteris, even in 1930, thought would lead to another world war.Once into it, one is hooked!The GR blurb:'Simon Templar is the Saint—daring, dazzling, and just a little disreputable.
But the Saint's nemesis Rayt Marius is already nearby….There is only one way to stop Marius from using the weapon to start a war—kidnapping the scientist who built it.
He wrote novels about the Saint throughout his life, becoming one of the 20th century's most prolific and popular authors.'
I have childhood memories of The Saint, but I'm not sure which of Charteris works I read.
Recently, my wife asked me about the TV Series and I realized I needed to refresh my memory to give a good answer, since I had a vague sense that none of the recent movies and few of the series are true to Charteris' original.My suspicions were correct.
She is somehow simultaneously powerful but not a fully liberated woman; and while she is to be the Juliet to Simon's Romeo, the portrayal is a bit cartoonish.There is a reason these stories remain in publication, long after their original circumstances were contemporary.
And at the end there will be a victor, but the victory comes at a dear price for Simon Templar.This early Saint book shows a vastly different Saint from the later books, tv-series or even books.
The wordsmith CHarteris seems to enjoy making the Saint state absolute brilliant constructed sentences and his great descriptions should be a joy for those enjoying the English language.I reread this novel with the new release of the Saint books this year, I could have picked several different versions of this book as I own several versions of the book in English and two other languages.
But that will only come true because a few men will believe in it, and fight for it, and fight in its name against everything that sneers and snarls at that ideal.”This is NOT the Roger Moore Saint from the TV show...hey, I could count it for a book that was turned into a TV show...I might do that!!
This Saint is fiercely loyal to his friends...deeply in love with a plucky woman, and both amoral and deeply idealistic.This story is set between the wars in Europe, and Simon Templer and his 'gang' stumble onto a super weapon that will take the fun and glory out of fighting, and Simon feels the need to interfere...He gets himself sideways with the police, the secret service, the crown prince of Germany, and a megalomanic who also want the weapon.
Ok I will have to give some credit to my brother as years ago while I was learning all about science fiction he was going through pulp crime and thrillers and I can still remember the hunts we had looking for the next obscure title he was looking for.Many (many) years have passed and sadly my brother has disposed of his books but my memory of there is still there.
This is the first Saint book I have read and yes I know it is not the start of the series but cannot be helped.
Anyway I must admit that I thoroughly enjoyed it.
So the book.
I must say I really enjoyed it.
Saint books improve with the latter books. This is the second. It is mushroom in the prose style and the silly plot. There are flashes of effective writing. If this were the first Saint book I read, I would have read no others. I started with a much later book and know of the good things to come.
Charteris’s best villains are easily the equal of Fleming’s, and “The Last Hero” has two them!One may safely invent a sinister arms merchant from any country (although Rayt Marius is much more sinister than most).
Charteris here opts for the second alternative, and great villain though Marius undoubtedly is, for me Crown Prince Rudolf of ---------- is the best in the whole Saint Saga.(It is of course logically pointless to try and work out what the country really is, but it’s quite fun trying anyway, which Charteris obviously realises as he plants clues in various places.
Later, during an outing in the countryside with fellow adventurer and girlfriend Patricia Holm, Templar stumbles upon a secret British government installation where he and Holm witness the testing of a deadly and mysterious weapon—the electroncloud machine, which creates a vapour capable of turning anything (and anyone) it touches into ash.Templar and Holm are about to leave when they encounter a giant of a man named Rayt Marius, an evil tycoon who wants the weapon for his own purposes.
I have never read any of the books in this series but did watch the TV show. I suspect that Leslie Charteris is an acquired taste. His writing style is florid and wandering. The plot is basic and completely unbelievable.I am not a follower of super heroes, so those who love comic book characters will enjoy this more than I did.Have a dictionary handy - I ran across words I have never seen before. I gave up trying to figure out the colloquialisms.I am going to stick to TV reruns.I borrowed a copy from the public library.
Hello Old Friend, Simon Templar has been an old friend for many years. The public library had these books when I was a kid and I devoured them. In this book, we find our intrepid hero and his merry band keeping a new advance in science that can be used as a superweapon out of government hands. Doing the right thing by criminal means. You have to love Simon Templar aka The Saint.
I love all the Saint books and recently added this to my collection. Charteris has a unique voice.
Not for me, at least not right now. I love period-piece novels but this one felt unpleasantly dated.
A bit slow in parts due to idealistic digressions, a bit dated, but over all I enjoyed it.
With the exception of "New York," the books are actually collections of three or four separate stories, which can be read independently.
"Closes the Case," though, is about one thing - the Saint's quest to prevent anyone - his government or someone else's - to possess a highly dangerous weapon.
Simon and his girlfriend Pat accidentally come across a demonstration of the weapon, the Electron Cloud, which incinerates its victims in a very brief period of time.
Simon's plan is to hunt down the inventory of the Electron Cloud, Dr Vargan, eliminate him, and destroy the weapon.
It is a collection of low-brow, low grade action sequences which are all heavily cushioned between many long laborious and dense scenes of endless comical slang dialogue which is all supposed to convince the reader what a cool customer Simon Templer is.
There's a plot in there someplace about an arch-villain who plans to use a scientist's new fancy death ray to get a war going in Europe and about “The Saint” refusing a pardon for past crimes so he can remain independent, but none of that has much to do with the endless stream of “clever” chatter and tiresome nicknames that pass between Simon and his too-cool buddies.
I believe that I read a Saint story or two quite a few years ago (I remember seeing the little haloed stick figure on books at my grandmother's house, and seeing copies of the magazine lying about), but I've never really been a fan.
In this early story he is the leader of a group of evil-fighting associates, much like Doc Savage or Avenger, though I believe he was pretty much a solo act in his later years.
Overall, I enjoyed the story, and will probably someday make a point to pick up another couple of books in the series.
Originally published on my blog here in September 1999.">here in September 1999.This, the second published volume in the Saint series proper, is the first full length novel in which he is the central character, and can perhaps make a better claim to be literature than anything else Charteris ever wrote.How does The Last Hero differ from other Saint books and, indeed, set itself apart from the thirties thriller in general?
The character of Simon Templar is not as central as usual, and Charteris manages to differentiate four different "good guys" and two "bad guys", none of them wholly stereotypical.
The Saint Closes the Case, also known as The Last Hero is a novel by Leslie Charteris, first published in 1930, about the now legendary Simon Templar.This book takes Templar and his cohorts (yes, in the original books The Saint was not a crime fighting one man band, and he also has a regular girlfriend) from foiling an assignation attempt on a visiting prince to trying to stop a weapon of mass destruction from not only falling into the hands of a foreign power but also into the hands of his own government in order to prevent the mass industrial slaughter of World War One happening all over again.
Thomas & Mercer is re-releasing the Simon Templar books for a new generation.
It really is astonishing how they both do and do not stand up since their original publication date in the 1930s.This is also not the hard-boiled Saint we see in later books (some of which I read in high school); this is a younger, more humorous Simon Templar.
despite the author's assertions that Templar is "everyman.'This is actually the second book in the series.
but I don't know how much modern audiences would like it given the changes in warfare since the book was written.
Charteris took a chunk out of the first story and dropped the second in the middle, of course doing some re-writing to smooth things over.The tale concerns Simon Templar and his lady Patricia stumbling upon a demonstration of a new weapon of mass destruction.
The Saint is appalled and determines to stop this weapon.
He grabs Patrivia in a bid to get the scientist and his device, necessitating a rescue.The Simon Templar of this early story is not the genteel fellow of later stories.
He's perfectly willing to kill the scientist if he can't be persuaded to abandon development of his super weapon.Excellent.
Absolutely excellent read of the second Simon Templar novel in the series.
A great story, Charteris is a master of the genre - the pulsating tension throughout the adventure injects a bloodrush worth experiencing.
The story is one of the 'Pulp' genre having been written in 1930 and its dark undertones are only lightened by the sometimes hilarious banter that 'The Saint' cajoles his sidekicks and enemies into partaking.
A great character and one of the first modern-day 'swashbucklers'...looking forward to reading more 'Saint' adventures - Thank You, Leslie!
Charteris took a chunk out of the first story and dropped the second in the middle, of course doing some re-writing to smooth things over.The tale concerns Simon Templar and his lady Patricia stumbling upon a demonstration of a new weapon of mass destruction.
The Saint is appalled and determines to stop this weapon.
He grabs Patrivia in a bid to get the scientist and his device, necessitating a rescue.The Simon Templar of this early story is not the genteel fellow of later stories.
He's perfectly willing to kill the scientist if he can't be persuaded to abandon development of his super weapon.Excellent.

