https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17487.Five_Go_Adventuring_Again
She also appears to know rather little about history, science, mechanics etc and it shows - but only to adults who find themselves reading the books.SOME SPOILERS here:The book revolves around the theft of Uncle Quentin's papers and unmasking the thief.
In the house are Uncle Quentin, Aunt Fanny, the children and the tutor.
"like most cruel people" (not an exact quote).The other central issue is that of the Secret Way - which is a secret tunnel that for no apparent reason joins Kirrin Cottage to Kirrin Farm.
I'm not feeling well today so this will be brief.The second Famous Five book picks up one school term after the first one finishes. The kids are all excited to see each other again and excited because it's almost Christmas. Then George takes a dislike to their new tutor (a private tutor during the Christmas holidays? That sucks) and things start getting adventurey... Adventureish? Adventuresome? Adventurelike? This book does exactly what it says on the tin and the real star is Timothy the dog; he really gets a chance to shine this time.Buddy read with Sunshine Seaspray
This book is the second in the series and the George, Anne, Julian and Dick along with Timmy the dog return to Kirrin Cottage for the Christmas break.
George takes an instant dislike to him when he insists on calling George by her rightful name, Georgina, and announces he hates dogs.
Despite having to spend their mornings studying the five manage to have a marvellous adventure as they track down a thief and race along secret passages!I love the innocence of these stories and the fact that children don't need TV and computer games to exist.
Einer meiner liebsten Folge der Kindheit und hat sich auch heute nicht geändert! Finde diese Folge ist perfekt mit dem Felsenhof und den geheimen Gänge und George, welche den Lehrer (zurecht?) nicht leiden kann. [11.10.2018]

I first read this as a child in 1954 I think it was. Like most of my contemporaries I loved The Famous Five series. Re-reading 60 years on was a piece of pure nostalgia. Of course it's a book for children but then I'm a big kid at heart!
I read quite a few Enid Blyton books when I was a kid.It was good fun.
This book is the second in Enid Boston's Famous Five series and to truly understand it, one should know that it was first published in 1943 in the middle of wartime. The four children and Timothy are spending school Christmas break at George's house. George's dad Quentin is working on some mysterious formula that may be useful to the government. A tutor is hired as George and the boys have fallen behind with their schoolwork. Can the tutor be trusted? George and Timothy don't think so. Read on for an adventurous trip back in time.
George is my all time favourite character along with Timmy the dog as she’s such a rebellious character. 5 stars 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟
В моем детстве-отрочестве эти все детские детективы прошли мимо меня (точнее, слишком поздно они у нас появились), а тут купила лизе и прочитала сама с огромным удовольствием. чрезвычайно уютный классический детектив!
Tetapi tidak ada satupun tempat di Kirrin Farm yang sesuai dengan peta kuno itu.
Lima Sekawan sangat penasaran dengan peta itu, dan mereka harus tetap belajar bersama Pak Guru Roland.Ketidaksukaan Tim dan George ternyata ada hubungannya dengan peristiwa pencurian di Pondok Kirrin.
Selain mengungkap misteri Pondok Kirrin, Lima Sekawan juga berhasil menangkap pencuri arsip Paman Quantine.Seperti yang pernah saya sebutkan dalam resensi buku pertama, buku ini sangat menarik untuk dibaca oleh anak-anak yang berusia 10 tahun ke atas.
Ada juga tertulis bahwa Anne yang berumur 10 tahun membelikan hadiah Natal berupa rokok untuk Pak Guru Roland.
Tetapi menurut pendapat mereka, Pak Guru Ronald pun seharusnya menunjukan pengertian yang lebih besar." – halaman 69Karena keluarga mereka terkena penyakit menular, Julian, Dick dan Anne menghabiskan liburan Natal mereka di rumah sepupu mereka, Georgina atau George, di Pondok Kirrin.
Lima Sekawan tidak bisa melanjutkan mencari jalan tersebut karena beberapa kamar di Kirrin Farm disewa oleh doa orang seniman.Di umur sekarang kayaknya aku udah nggak cocok buat baca buku anak-anak, tapi Lima Sekawan: Beraksi Kembali masih bisa membuatku bersemangat dan terhibur dengan kasus misteriusnya.
Lalu penemuan jalan rahasia ini juga menarik, apalagi jika dihubungkan dengan ketidaksukaan Tim pada Pak Ronald dan kedatangan dua seniman ke Kirrin Farm.
The second book in the series is my personal favourite as you already know the characters from the first story and so the plot moves along faster.To me the book shows how different children view authority.
George is the rebellious one who although has justification for disliking the tutor, Mr. Rowland (he does not like dogs), she shows little respect for him or her father.
Similarly, the illustrations are fantastic and move along with the story expertly, I just wonder if they would be as relevant/striking in the minds of children of today.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
What I love about her novels is that she makes the mysteries not as easy to solve (but most of the time I solved them!).PLOT!It's the Christmas holidays and Julian, Dick and Anne can't go back to their house due to their mum being ill and their dad being quarantined because of it.
Over the Christmas holidays the kids have to have a tutor (all accept Anne but later on still joins in) because Julian and Dick where ill during the term there and needed to catch up and George needed to do extra work due to the poor report card she got.
Enjoyed re-reading this, though I don't quite love it as much as the first one... which may be because I just really love the adventures on Kirrin Island and this one didn't have any of that ;D

When we meet George in the first novel we are told that she is a tom-boy, however the language that Blyton uses made me instantly think that she was a lesbian.
To me, once again, the work queer conjures up images of homosexuality (and by now you are probably thinking that I am repressing innate desires, but as I said before and as I will say again, men simply do not have the equipment that women have and as such I simply cannot see another man in such a light).
But only George has her suspicions, and coming up against someone the rest of the family likes so much proves difficult.I've always thought it was a bit unfortunate, Uncle Quintin's attitude to George.
All is well however, when George and the others discover the thieves and a secret passage besides!The story is a little weak, coming after the first novel in this series, but it is still enjoyable.
I like how you don't have to read them in order, each one is a separate story and can be read alone.
Amazing!!I love how all the characters are totally different it makes the story so much more interesting!!XD
The boys are enjoying me reading these books to them :) And I haven't read them before so it's a bonus for me too.
Great to go adventuring with the gang...again? Rather!
I'm working my way through the Famous Five series again and I'm so glad. In their second adventure, the five are spending the Christmas Hols at Kirrin Cottage while Uncle Quentin works on a secret formula. The five are on the case when a thief steals the formula. I love the world in these books - the food (minus the tongue sandwiches), the incompetence of criminals, the availability of adventures, and how the children amuse themselves. I can always depend on the five.
Enjoyable, but not as good as the first. These books written in the 40s sure had the same style. The old "I'm here for work" ploy. George was ok, but Trixie would have seen through it sooner and proved it sooner, and not whined about it the whole time. That's why Trixie is still tops for me, over these Famous Five and over that spoiled rich Nancy Drew. :)
Amazing book and amazing adventure
Es sind einfach die besten Bücher, um sie vorm einschlafen zu lesen. Außerdem: Kindheits-Nostalgie.
Kebetulan pula, buku ini dapat disertakan dalam tantangan membaca literatur anak-anak yang diadakan oleh salah satu member BBI.Di dalam buku pertama, saya disuguhi dengan romantika awal perkenalan Julian, Dick dan Anne dengan sepupu jauh mereka, Georgina alias George.
Gawatnya, seseorang ini ternyata telah mengetahui pula bahwa di pulau ini ada harta karun yang begitu banyak, sampai-sampai konfrontasi antara orang ini dengan kelompok Lima Sekawan tidak dapat dihindarkan lagi.
I wrote a reasonably long nostalgic review about this, and then I got a weird blue screen of death, so I lost it.
Maybe I'll tell the story someday, but for now, I'll just do a quick review.
But there are things I found more believable, too -- like the way Mr Roland isn't all bad, he's also quite good at teaching and at making the kids (other than George) like him.I felt sorry for George.
The kids get to have adventures, and they turn out smarter than the adults -- but it's not so unrealistic, because they still have restrictions, like weather and bedtimes.
I'm quite stubborn myself and I would probably react the same way if I had a tutor like Mr. Roland.
It was so obvious that he was up to no good, I mean, Timmy wouldn't even shake hands with him.I thought that Anne was particularly painful in this book.
She even knew his favourite brand.I quite liked this book.
Mr. Roland was a dastardly villain (he made poor Timmy sleep out in the snow) and I think every child dreams about finding a secret passage in their house.
I liked this book.
At first the children didn't wanted a tutor but afterwards they were okay with him not to include George and Timmy here.
They both didn't like Mr. Roland, their tutor.
It was Roland and his two mates who lived as artists at Kirrin Farmhouse.
The Five discovered a secret way from Kirrin cottage to Kirrin Farmhouse.
Gosh, it was so exciting when George set Timmy on the two so called artists when they chased the Five in the secret way.
I would like to give this novel 4 stars ****.
