https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111101.Bliss
My friend leaves next week and I thought it would be nice to send over a book with him to the honey collector.
BUT, and I struggle to believe this is true, this book is out of print in Australia.
Prior to dying he had the perfect life, wife who loved him, two beautiful kids, job he loves, friends ...
Dear god, please do not make that character be me.It is the end of this book that I love the most - a single image at what is close to the very end that has stayed with me forever and ever - Harry's love letter that took seven years to deliver.
I met Peter Carey at a book signing in the small general books collection of the university textbook store that I worked at. I told him that I had skipped a "meteorology and weather" class to see him. He signed my copy of Bliss "Plenty of nice weather in this book."
I am a bit of a sucker for black comedy and this book is exactly that. I found the whole story entertaining in the extreme. One thing Carey can certainly do is write well and the prose in this book is perfect. Some scenes where he is describing the Australian bush are superb. Add to that many beautifully drawn characters and I can understand why people are already calling this book a classic. A most enjoyable read, highly recommended - and I loved the neat little ending!
Wow. What a bizarre and lovely book.
If you read it, just let it flow.
It's like a window into a weird, paranoid, 80's version of Queensland, where everyone wears white linen suits and is quite mad.
*UPDATE* I just accidentally found the movie version on SBS which is BRILLIANT!!
I also LOVED all the visual gags that really enhanced some of the funnier parts of the book, taking a very literal approach to things that were more conceptual on paper, e.g. the scene in the restaurant between Betty & Joel, followed by the sardines.
Read the book, then watch the movie.
yes, we should love trees more than silk shirts.
yes, producing successful advertisements for companies that manufacture damaging goods is ethically compromising.
but i'm not sure what else carey is getting at here.
does he think it necessitates a stress-induced mental break for someone who prefers silk shirts to learn to like trees?
do you have to think you're going to spend eternity in hell to become a better person?
did no one know that whole grains were good for them in 1981?
but i did fleetingly consider moving to australia and joining a commune, so carey must have done something right.
Just couldn't get past page 200.
Starts off great-- magnificently actually-- and then degenerates into wholly unbelievable chain of events.
Actually, the events are believable-- the main character nearly dies, thinks he's in hell and then is thrown by (his hideous) family into mental instituion.
That I can believe-- instutionalization happens-- however, Carey tells it likes its one big joke (except he doesn't really make it funny either.) If you really lust after satire, you might like this, but I got no feeling or emotion from any of these characters.
To me, they were cardboard and the author was just pushing them around for plot purposes.
In 2010 I read his second Booker-prize winner, True History of the Kelly Gang, and found it to be a good book that only grew stronger in my memory.
So it seems like a good idea to read his entire canon.Bliss is his first novel, following the unfortunate circumstances of Harry Joy, who has a heart attack one day and dies for nine minutes before being resuscitated.
I still want to read more of Carey, and I own his next book, Illywhacker, but I may skip past that and read his Booker-winning Oscar and Lucinda or the intriguing Jack Maggs.
The story is hilarious and not a little crazy, but it is told with a deep regard for humanity.
I saw the movie nearly twenty years ago, and have wanted to see it again, but I can't find it.
Carey sees the humanity in each person, and tenderly exposes their inner strengths and weaknesses.He writes beautiful prose, descriptive and flowing.
I'll read it again in a few years.
The characters are true to the book, and the story doesn't vary much (if at all) from the book.Next on my list is Carey's "The Unusual Life of Tristan Smith".
Reading Carey's tale of the Joy family and their acquaintances is like biting into a tantalizing piece of fruit only to realize it is rotten in the middle, and no matter how much effort one puts into erasing the taste, the foulness lingers.
Joy ends up dying for a few minutes and that, dear reader, is what shakes his world, and from then on he believes he's in Hell once he sees his family for what they really are.
As has been written in numerous other tales, our protagonist must lose his life to gain it.
This isn't my favorite of Peter Carey, and I'd hesitate to recommend it to people who haven't read him; it's definitely a first novel, stuffed with digressions and minor characters that don't quite work, and also the satirical tone has an aspect of contempt and despair that could be off-putting even if you like that kind of thing (sort of an early Martin Amis quality).
And I like stories about people who go through a life-changing experience and reinvent themselves, but then aren't finished changing for all time, and hesitate and renege and have to reinvent themselves some more.
This is the story of a man who dies on the operating table for a few minutes but then is revived.
He believes, however, the he has died and gone to hell.
And his belief that this is true is firmly upheld as he faces the awful truth about the dysfunctional state of his family for the first time.This is one of the most bizarre books I have ever read.
It was utterly horrifying in parts, full of twists and turns and fascinating characters.
I learned from it that eating a table spoon of honey every day will make your eyes bright, clear and beautiful.
Bliss is the sort of novel that tests you, from back when “difficult” was synonymous with “literature”. Some thirty seven years later a satirical examination of the Australia of the early eighties that is both crushingly cynical and laughably optimistic is a big ask of a reader, but those who stick through with it might find paradise waiting for them at the end.There’s a spell woven within the pages of Bliss that belies its frequent vulgarity. You have to deal with light (and inexplicable) incest, a Kafkaesque nightmare, and an elephant to get there, but Bliss will reward you.
Almost Dickension in its vividness - a great example of evocative Australian literature
"How to Spoil a Good Plot" a dissertation in form of a novel titled "Bliss" by Peter Carey.
And if you add up that the main character writes down notes comparing the differences between the people he knew before his stroke with those he now believes are performing their roles, the plot you have it's just great with a hint of absurdity.
- drugs.Leave behind all the potentially good subplots you started at the beginning of the novel to focus on the madness of the main character and his clumsy need of redemption while in a psychiatric hospital.
I repeat: this book is nothing of that sort but the crafty disguise of a masterful dissertation titled "How to Spoil a Good Plot".
This book tells the story of a man who dies and comes back to life.
Peter Carey is a brilliant writer.
He creates a unique world peopled with some strange characters and you just keep turning pages.
You can't help it, you have to find out what happens next.
The great ones always make it look so easy.
The book, first published in 1981, has a timeless quality to it as it touches on issues including family, health, the environment, advertising, corporations, capitalism and imperialism.
Peter Carey writes a compelling novel, so fans of great writing will definitely enjoy this one.

I still love this book, nearly 25 years after I first read it and more than 15 years after I read it last.
A peculiar blend of optimism and pessimism that moves me.
A wonderful, meandering use of language and unexpected glimpses inside ourselves.
"And in it's magical pattern there was now a new element, a new glow, a cast of a golden colour which suffused everything, the source of which was a character in a book he had half read of and would never finish.
He was not interested in what happened to Jay Gatsby.
He was only interested that Jay Gatsby should exist."
Opening: KNOCKING AT THE HELLGATE: Harry Joy was to die, three times, but it was his first death which was to have the greatest effect on him, and it is this first death which we shall now witness.I am not supposed to be reading this now as there are many others in the queue that should take priority, however I have been lassoed...My first adult Carey; the 2* kids-lit I don't hold against him. High 3*
It's easy to see why Carey went on to win awards. His writing is very literary, which is both this book's strength and weakness: Too many times the clever writing took centre stage, blitzing the story. I liked this story, liked these characters, but tired of the long-winded introspection and description about halfway in. (The last quarter of the book I merely skimmed to see how it ended.) Don't get me wrong, I enjoy clever, wity writing, but it should never be the star.
After a cracking first half, I felt this very entertaining and amusing novel ran out of steam somewhat. Possibly this is because I knew how it would end (I've seen the movie and I've started to suspect that I've also already read this during my 1990s Carey jag).Well worth it just to enjoy the set up in the first third, and I imagine it will appeal to fans of JT Hospital, Marquez, Rushdie and / or magical realism who are fancying something a tad lighter.
They call this book a classic, and I'm not going to argue with them! It is a highly unusual black satire that is as compelling as it is bizarre. I read it twice and must admit I enjoyed it more the second time. A corker.
don't feel like finishing this story, since the whole atmosphere of it made me feel queasy and stressed.. maybe one day I'll pick it up again, but for now it's a one star rating.
This is one of those slow reads that's worth it. Don't get daunted by the disturbing scene at the beginning...
I read this when I was 17 and loved it. Should read it again to see if I still love it at 37
But overall the book ends up feeling like a short story that got forcibly extended to meet a word count.
There are passages that zip and fizz, that carry you along, make you care what Harry is going through, but these are vastly outweighed by much longer passages of prose which are a slog, that feel like Carey wasn't sure what he was trying to say or where he was taking the story.
While it's not the worst book you'll ever read, and sure everyone has to start somewhere, Bliss is like discovering Michelangelo's first paintings were done with a dripping roller.
I loved the paranoid Harry Joy: I thought the book was at its funniest then.
During the time I was reading “Bliss”, I came across a quote from Carey which went something like: when people read my books I hope they think it is so so easy when really i have rewritten those chapters 20 times, over and over and over again.
[end quote] what was strange was that I had been thinking how easy he makes writing look; there aren’t many difficult words, it seems the complexities are in the story-telling.
So he decides to Do Good, which only makes things worse.The tone is farcical and tragic in turn and, for a book written in 1981, the underlying preoccupations are strikingly similar to those of today.
The spine-chilling account of a psychiatric hospital run entirely for profit, for example, is very relevant today.The last of the six sections is perhaps the least satisfying and leaves the feeling that the novel was more about ideas than about people, but I found it hugely enjoyable to read.
Actively disliked this book. Has taken me 7 years to finish it as I kept trying it and putting it down. Was stuck in a Witness Room at court and decided to compound my misery by finishing the book. Glad to be rid of it from my Kindle. Couldn't make out what was going on and whether the main character was dead/alive and didn't really care either. I'm sure I am missing something going by others reviews but would be dreadful if we all had the same opinion!
To be honest, I'm not quite sure where the story goes while reading the book but I'm glad I have finished it. There are a lot of plot twists revealed in very casual of ways that it is a little difficult to figure out if there is a hidden joke on what has occurred. The last part of the book is the saving grace of it all.
Brilliant writing and character development. I'll never forget Honey Barbara and Harry Joy. When asked what it was like to read, by my son, I replied, "Like eating an excellently dense rye bread, with olive oil and Marmite." Not to be missed.
