https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1162022.On_the_Jellicoe_Road
There's a monster in my mirror with puffy bloodshot eyes because she stayed up most of the night, crying and reading On the Jellicoe Road. But it was worth it.Melina Marchetta never fails to remind me why she is one of my favourite authors and, in my opinion, this is the best of her books I've read so far. It's very difficult to put into words how I feel about On the Jellicoe Road, all I can say is that my heart has been ripped out and shredded, my throat has sealed up with emotion and when I f
It's very difficult to put into words how I feel about On the Jellicoe Road, all I can say is that my heart has been ripped out and shredded, my throat has sealed up with emotion and when I finally get some sleep, I get the feeling I'll probably dream about Jonah Griggs.The story is of Taylor Markham, a girl who was abandoned by her mother as a young child and now resides in a boarding school for kids who are troubled, neglected or criminally inclined, her closest friend and mentor being Hannah, a woman who lives on the edge of the school grounds.
There's a reason why books like Twilight don't receive those.
Some of the passages in Jellicoe Road seem to beat with their own heart:"These people have history and I crave history.
I crave someone knowing me so well that they can tell what I'm thinking.""'What do you want from me?' he asks.
More."I've always believed that an exceptionally good writer can take you places emotionally that others can't, and, for me, Melina Marchetta is one of those writers.
I'm going to end this review here for two reasons: 1) I believe this is the type of book that should be experienced first hand, without much knowledge of the story going in.
it is about the teen-girl default position of lashing out like a wild animal and of the deepest regrets.it howls.it is astonishing - jellicoe road is sophisticated both in its subject matter and the way in which the story is told.
and toward the middle, the plot became a little predictable, but that didn't even matter, because by that point i was so enmeshed in these characters' lives - i just wanted everything to work out for them, even though i knew this was not going to be the kind of book with a tidy-sweet ending.
I will preface this review by saying that I love this book.
It's busy and there are plot threads everywhere and all I knew was that I loved SAVING FRANCESCA and Melina Marchetta was doing all of this for a reason.
It ties up beautifully in the end, and there's a scene which even made me shed a tear -- me, who has not cried since THE TIME TRAVELER'S WIFE (three tears) and while writing my second novel SHIVER (one tear from each eye) -- and I'm left feeling just about cheerful about everything in the book though it was not a Hollywood happy ending by any stretch.
*5+ Stars! Gorgeous*Books like this make me realize just how insignificant words become when attempting to convey raw emotion. On the Jellicoe Road is more than just a book; it is a hauntingly beautiful journey towards an unexpected destination where tragedy and despair become the bridges to the greatest of friendships.   And life goes on, which seems kind of strange and cruel when you're watching someone die.  This story is told in alternating perspectives set in both past and present which, at
On the Jellicoe Road is more than just a book; it is a hauntingly beautiful journey towards an unexpected destination where tragedy and despair become the bridges to the greatest of friendships.
The character development in this story is extraordinary; no one is denied the sweetness of redemption and transformation.
Every single element and occurrence in this book is connected to some larger piece of the story.
I was still connecting the dots even after the book was done.
▪	 Genre/Category: Young Adult▪	 Steam: Clean▪ Romance: Beautiful love story involved, but not sole focus.
She is uneasy more than ever - her mentor and friend Hannah disappears and Taylor is sure it has something to do with her mother; Jonah Griggs, a Cadet who she has a shared past with, is back and seems to know her all too well; she is plagued by dreams of a young boy who attempts to tell her something.
It takes a few pages to figure out what is a dream and what is a page from a story Taylor is reading; what is from present and what is from the past.
'On the Jellicoe Road' is the first book I've read/listened to by this author.
It is incredibly hard to pull off a book like this in audiobook format and it didn't work for me.I spent hours trying to figure out who the characters were and what the hell was going on.
I had simply missed too much to play catch-up at that point.The story centers on Taylor Markham, a girl that was abandoned on the Jellicoe Road by her mother at the age of 11.
I was just too lost for most of the book to take much away from the experience this time around.
All while reading Hannah's unfinished novel about five teenagers in the 1980s who form very intense friendship bonds after the horrific car accident on Jellicoe Road when they were 11-12 years old.Now, I have to say that not once did I look at this book as a mystery even though it's marketed as such.
I mean, there was actually a remark on (view spoiler)[how intense Taylor and Jonah's relationship was, which made me feel like I'm reading a Twilight-type love story (hide spoiler)].- The adults in this book (even Taylor remarks on it!).
ALL OVER AGAIN.HOW IS THIS EVEN POSSIBLE BECAUSE EVERYTHING HURTS JUST AS MUCH BUT ALSO EVERYTHING HURTS JUST AS GOOD OR MAYBE EVEN INFINITELY MORE SO AND I CANNOT EVEN BEGIN TO FATHOM THE FUCKING BEAUTY THAT IS THIS STORY AND THIS PROSE AND OFFICIALLY MY MOST CHERISHED BOOK OF ALL TIME.Thank you for existing.(21.10.16)________________________This is the kind of book that slowly sucks you in, and at first, you may be unsure if you want to go on but before you know it, it's already swallowed you whole.And I'm not sure I ever want to get out of the abyss of emotions and just plain rawness this book snared out of me.And it's not like there's some blatant, profound message here that's changed my life.
To me, reading this book felt like a 
I know that’s not a radical thing to do because I know a lot of people who do similar things, and as I read this novel I found myself writing down questions that I believed would be answered at the end.
And I think that’s why a lot of people really love this book.
I don’t want to say a lot on this subject because if you haven’t read it already then you need to experience JG first hand.
People who love mystery books.
I want my time back that was wasted reading this book.You know you should dnf a book when you:1.
-A five star read by Sana KhalidWhat the fuck was going on in this book?
What the fuck happened like??
◇You know when you read something you have a sense of what going on??
You wouldn't know what the MC's fucking name is right?
You wouldn't know what the fucking plot is, right?
You wouldn't know what the fuck is going on , right?
YOU WOULDN'T FUCKING KNOW WHO FRITZ IS RIGHT?
I wanted to cry bc I was reading this book.
“From this distance everything is so bloody perfect.” This will not be a proper review, because On the Jellicoe Road turned me into ruins. Quite possibly, my favorite book of the year, because it is so unique and so gut-wrenching and so enrapturing it deserves the title. This book is not merely a reading experience; this book is a journey. One filled with two emotional plotlines, past and present, that overlap in places only to thread themselves together in a masterful and sad, yet agonizingly
And about the love for life, for living, despite it continuously trying to shove you down.
And this book is about me and how I have fallen in love with its every single character.
and Richard and Sam. And I adore Webb and Narnie and Tate and Fitz and Jude.
And oh, Webb, I just want to place him in the sky between the stars where he belongs because he is perfection.
How much can you love a book?
And so here I am, begging you to read this book if you haven't done so yet.
Why do people ship this so hard???However there were moments of very pretty writing, and ya gotta admire the badassery of these characters folks.But this book and I just didn't click.Bottom line: I AM SO SORRY I DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENED NOBODY IS ALLOWED TO HATE ME PLEASE------------IF I DON'T LIKE THIS BOOK I WILL BE DISOWNED BY EVERYONE I LOVE.also i've read the first 10% of this four times.
excited to go in for attempt #5anyway PLEASE LET ME LIKE THIS BOOK @READING GODS------------I DON'T KNOW WHAT'S HAPPENING.
You gut me, Marchetta. Absolutely gut me.
If somebody had told me how mixed-up and emotional this book was going to make me feel, I would have abandoned it in a corner and floated off to the simple uncomplicated world of supernatural ass-kicking, where nobody dies and even if they do, they rarely stay dead.
This is not a book for people who want a straightforward love story with a dash of drama.
This is for people who want to appreciate good writing, and don't mind losing a little bit of themselves between the covers of a book in the process.
The GR book summary gives no indication what the book is really about, and truth be told, I'm not sure you'd want to know what the book is about before reading it.The first 150 pages or so are completely frustrating and confusing.
I knew this ahead of time, but I also knew that just about every single person who has read this has said the exact same thing, yet still gave the book 5 stars.
All I can do is echo the voices of those who prodded me to read the book - DON'T GIVE UP.
Just about every person's life is intertwined with the other characters in this story.I'm done trying to prod you to read this.
It took me 113 days to write a full review.. I counted. Reading one of Marchetta’s stories should be one of the “10 things to do in your lifetime”. Seriously, this woman is one of the most creative people alive, one of the most amazing writers I came across and I wish I could put into words the awesomeness of this book, but I feel at a loss for words once more.In fact, I should invent a new language with a dictionary full of ways to praise her talent.Because Melina Marchetta doesn’t only write b
They seem to breathe through our emotions, and I don’t remember a moment when I didn’t feel something (deep) towards this story and these wonderful characters.Her words sing to me, they reach into the deep core of my own soul, they make me laugh through tears, they break my heart into thousand pieces but they also put it back in together, making it beat in a whole new rhythm, making it love and ache on a different level.Once again, the complexity of the plot left me lightheaded, in awe, even though I knew what was coming my way.
Yeah right, HDT, I could live deliberately in the woods, too, if I knew my transcendentalist cronies would bring me a Cinnabon and some pumpkin ale once in awhile.** Nevertheless, Thoreau’s idea served as the inspiration for Yeats’ poem Lake Isle of Innisfree*** from which Melina Marchetta quotes in this novel.
Instead of pounding quotations into your head, like a sad number of authors do, Marchetta only mentioned Innisfree once in passing...but it stuck with me through the rest of the book.I don’t want to go into the plot of this book too deeply, for the point I took away from the book is that we all have those idyllic places we go to in our minds.
4.5 stars.
Like he’s saying, ‘Here I am world, are you ready for so much passion and beauty and goodness and love and every other word that should be in the dictionary under the word life?’”Sometimes, guys, simply reading a book once is not enough.
I feel like I'm saying goodbye to something personal every time I turn over that last page, but now I know that's hardly the case.
LOVE does not even come close to describing what I feel for this book Treasure it guysAnd then read it all over again <3
how could this book hurt me on the second read just as much as the first read? i am a puddle of feels and sadness and tears and joy. i love this book more than i love myself. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~guess which Marchetta Trash™ is back to have her soul ruined AGAIN??? buddy read and reread  with the nice mice, zoop & foop can't wait to die :')
Honest to God, I don't even know what the hell I read.Before I begin, you'll realize I've referred to this book as JelliNOE Road.
She fulfilled her part of the deal and me reading this book was fulfilling my part.
Literally, the only thing I can tell you about this book is what's written in the blurb and the characters' names.
It was basically over beginning of this week and then I picked JelliNOE again two days ago.
NOPE.JelliNOOOOOOOOOE.Guys, please, someone tell me what was happening in this book.
That's her new name.In conclusion, JelliNOE Road is my first AND last book by Melina Marchetta.
Every Filipino who loves his country must read this book.Reason: On April 13, 2012, North Korea's long-range rocket launched, failed. Reuters is now saying that, embarrassed by rocket crash, North Korea may now be thinking of trying nuclear test. Check the path and the trajectory plan of that failed rocket launch:  Do you see that tail-end of the yellow line? That's Luzon, the biggest island in the Philippines. That's where Manila is. That's where I live!But why should we read this book?Here's w
Every Filipino who loves his country must read this book.Reason: On April 13, 2012, North Korea's long-range rocket launched, failed.
He reads this book!Seriously, I am one of the moderators of The Filipino Group here in Goodreads.
As a moderator and one of the senior members of the group, some members ask me what I think of the book.
But it is my ardent desire that this book will influence our North Korean friend to back off in his evil plan of building nuclear arsenal in the side of the world.
Hannah is writing a book about the goings on of Jellicoe School when she attended and Taylor is using the book to piece together her own random memories to understand what her life was actually about – mainly the story of her mother and father.In my opinion, these two plot lines do not mix.
They were just part of the confusion.Will someone please, please tell me what they LOVE about this book and what makes it a multiple award winner?
I was like that new kid in a group that's sort of hanging out on the edge of conversation, listening but not really participating.But then I saw the light.Things started to come together for me once Taylor began to pursue the truth of her past.
Whaaaat?" But this setting does begin to feel much more appropriate once you get a bit further in.God, everyone in this novel was so intense.Once I started realizing what was going on, who was who, and why certain things were relevant...
Half this book I was: ????The other half I was: on the verge of tears
☠ Territorial War buddy read/reread with Chelsea, Jennifer, Jen, Laura & Harriet ☠What happens when you reread this incredible book? What? You fucking cry, what do you think?Well, you have seen me gushing frantically obsessing over this book for a while now, so you know you have to brace yourself because this book? It possibly became my favorite. Ever. That kind of means something when we read a million book a year, right?  "I fall in love with these kids over and over again and my heart ach
Yet if there's something I learnt this year, that's Melina Marchetta's books are written in a way that makes me want to create a stamp which would say - That says it all.
We want to tear the appearances out, and above all that, we're grateful to Melina Marchetta because her characters are so relatable and real that we can find pieces of ourselves in them.
Pieces of my heart that broke for Jonah Griggs over and over again.
It is a book that I’m not likely to forget at any time.
Jellicoe Road deals with death and loss, with abandonment, drug-addiction and suicide.
But above all, Jellicoe Road is a book about forgiveness and moving on, and about the love and friendship that helps you on this journey.
[...] When we get there, you'll understand."Side note: If you are contemplating giving up on this book after about 100 pages, don’t do it.
Even though I loved this story right from the start, I have heard from so many people who struggled.
Back then, I had 3 kids under 5 and couldn't wait for them to get in bed so I could curl up and savour my new Melina Marchetta.On The Jellicoe Road is notorious for people finding the beginning confusing ~ and I have seen lovers of the book urge people to persevere to find it's magic.
Reading it blindly was a stunning experience: I felt like the whole world was just me and the book.
I almost feel private about it ~ as if it has become a part of me and talking about is like letting others peek into my soul.That very first time: I read it all in one go.
I’m glad I didn’t because if I had, I wouldn’t have known of a wonderful though devastatingly painful but inspiring story of love, grief and friendship of two different generations but whose lives are intricately connected to one another.
The mystery behind the characters is also one great reason that kept me reading on, wanting to find out the connections among the characters.
Good thing, like any other process, grief too has an end or at least a point in which the person must move on and the story thankfully ends with the inspiring message of moving on and living and appreciating life the way those whom you’ve lost would want you to.
