https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67146.The_Conformist
No wonder that it was made into a film.Jean-Louis Trintignant in Bernardo Bertolucci's 1970 adaptation of Moravia's novel "The Conformist."A Note about SpoilersWhile I have incidentally mentioned aspects of plot more than I normally do in my reviews, I have tried to limit myself to the "set-up" of two of the major plot issues: the conformity of the Conformist and his engagement with the Non-Conformist.I have tried to avoid any detail or implication about what follows, except to the extent that I mention the abstract nature of his own self-realisation (but not the trigger of it).
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستان به نوعی به برنامه های فاشیستی ایتالیا و نوعِ افکار و عقایدِ فاشیستی اعضای آن پرداخته استداستان در مورد جوانی به نامِ <مارچلو کلریچی> میباشد که دکتر است و در زمانِ کودکی شخصی قصد تجاوز به او را داشته و مارچلو به مرد متجاوز تیراندازی میکند و از آنجایی که تا پایانِ داستان تصور میکند که قتل انجام داده است، لذا همیشه خود را گناهکار میداند و لازم به ذکر است که به هیچ مذهب و دینی اعتقاد ندارد و حتی برای ازدواج هم حاضر نیست تا به کلیسا برود.. ولی نامزدش او را متقاعد میک
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این داستان به نوعی به برنامه های فاشیستی ایتالیا و نوعِ افکار و عقایدِ فاشیستی اعضای آن پرداخته است‎داستان در مورد جوانی به نامِ <مارچلو کلریچی> میباشد که دکتر است و در زمانِ کودکی شخصی قصد تجاوز به او را داشته و مارچلو به مرد متجاوز تیراندازی میکند و از آنجایی که تا پایانِ داستان تصور میکند که قتل انجام داده است، لذا همیشه خود را گناهکار میداند و لازم به ذکر است که به هیچ مذهب و دینی اعتقاد ندارد و حتی برای ازدواج هم حاضر نیست تا به کلیسا برود..
The obsession with normalcy was perhaps the greatest bane of the 20th century.
As the world became smaller and vastly diverse people began to mix more and more, people became overly concerned with this idea of being "normal" - wearing the same clothes, living in similarly furnished homes, even smoking the same brand of cigarettes all of which bring the protagonist of this particular story a feeling of great relief that he is "normal" - that is until we see the devastation that "normal" brings about.On the one hand, an obvious critique of fascism and the horrors that were brought about by people who just conformed and went with the party line.
I'm not quite sure whether to rank it as better or worse than the movie, because Bertollucci was rather faithful to the plot, but even so they do seem to branch out in distinctly different dimensions.
Here, it's a toss-up, maybe (just maybe) with a slight edge to the film.But this is definitely uncompromising and intelligently provocative and casually perverse and coolly subversive and worth any ranking of the top 100 world novels of the Century.Italian fascism as seen through the eyes of a petit bourgeois who has a Mersault-like fascination with nothingness and tries to fill his empty suit with the cold comforts of a country which is going to the dogs.
How do you write a review if you are left speechless?I have no idea. All I know is that I need another dose of Moravia before the withdrawal symptoms suck the life out of me.
A macabre bildungsroman of man who realizes in early childhood that life is con; a troubling portrait a lá Camus or Dostoeyvsky. Spare prose but a rich text filled with doublings and odd encounters all filtered through Marcello’s (the narrator and titular character) disturbed viewpoint. An enigmatic and sudden ending leaves many questions. The amount of questions and concerns this book still raises illustrates why Moravia doesn’t consider this merely an Anti-fascism book or label it with any other isms; and I agree, this is one for always.
نمایشنامه ی دنباله رو نمایشنامه ای است سیاسی که تمرکز آن بیشتر بر روی مضمون خانواده و ریشههای انحرافی بورژوازی فاشیسم است.  آسیبشناسی و ذات بیمار فاشیستها از بنیان خانواده مارچلو شروع میشود و درمقاطع مختلف زندگی او هم ادامه مییابد. ابتدا ما را با خانواده افسار گسیخته و بی در و پیکر مارچلو آشنا میکند. مادری که به اخلاقیات پایبند نیست و پدری شکنجه گر که در تیمارستان بستری است. خود مارچلو اعتراف می کند که از هیجده سالگی انحراف اخلاقی را آغاز کرده است و جالب اش اینجاست که به کشیش می گوید این یک زند
نمایشنامه ی دنباله رو نمایشنامه ای است سیاسی که تمرکز آن بیشتر بر روی مضمون خانواده و ریشه‌های انحرافی بورژوازی فاشیسم است.
خود مارچلو اعتراف می کند که از هیجده سالگی انحراف اخلاقی را آغاز کرده است و جالب اش اینجاست که به کشیش می گوید این یک زندگی معمولی است.نمایشنامه هم چنین به جایگاه مذهب در دنیای کثیف قدرت و سیاست اشاره می‌کند که حضوری تزئینی و جلوه‌ای مسخره در جهان اثر می‌یابد.
دلیل اینکه از روی استیصال در فکر دنباله روی است این است که می فهمد با دیگران متفاوت است ولی هرگز تفاوت خود را نمی پذیرد.موراویا سبک روایت‌گری خاص خودش را دارد.
The psychology underlying Moravia's portrait is the idea that Marcello sees in himself the violent and selfish tendencies and so it is only natural that he should adopt a political philosophy that condones and acts out such tendencies.Moravia treats fascism in the person of Marcello more kindly than I believe he imagined he would when he began the novel, given Moravia's hatred of the fascist movement that seduced much of Europe following the First World War. But this is the necessary consequence of being an objective novelist.
It is an artifact of Moravia's artistry that we do in fact in the end identify with Marcello and may even realize that in his situation, we too might have embraced fascism or at least tolerated it.A secondary theme in the novel is that of unrequited love or of desire that is not returned.
I read this for Kimley's film group, and it's one fantastic can't put down novel.
Which is typical Alberto Moravia when you come to think of it.In a nutshell I think the book is about the psychological make-up of a typical Fascist.
Italian style of course!
official who wants to be normal, whatever that means.
But of course he's too late in learning that lesson.
Nevertheless a remarkable book, which will turn my head around when I go to sleep tonight.
Lots of incredible parts and scenes in this novel.
I want to give this novel six stars!
I so adore this film I when reading the novel can actually hear the voices of the actors. (or maybe I should stop taking so many psychiatric meds) Terrific story about the neurosis behind the morbid conformist fixation that drives the main character into working within the rising Italian fascist system .
نجمه للفكرة فقط..

Marcello suspected that his father turned the ring round on purpose, but he was not sure."By now I thought this boy was going to grow up to be a serial killer and that was even before he went to school where he was bullied by his classmates.
He is delighted when he stops to buy cigarettes that three other people are buying the same brand, he picked the girl he is going to marry because she is "a really normal, ordinary girl" things like that, he's always worried about being normal, ever since the lizard incidents anyway.
This was the first book I read by Moravia. He's an excellent writer who spins his tale in a calm leisurely fashion filled with elegant prose. In spite of this, the story is taut and highly compelling for most of its length and could have been a classic in its study of the complex motivations that lead its protagonist to turn toward Fascism. It's only in the last (anticlimactic) fifty pages that it falls apart. The ending, in particular, is deeply unsatisfying and seems forced.
Sebbene Moravia forse non sia un maestro della sottilezza in quanto alle sue idee (il romanzo è, secondo me, pieno di spiegazioni superflue), ha una certa arte di scegliere i detagli precisi e le immagini giuste.
A differenza di La ciociara, libro che mi è sembrato forse un po' essaggerato nella sfilza di scene violente e tristi, Il conformista mi pare un libro molto equilibrato, veramente ben fatto.
Un libro veramente bello.Another book on my list of Italian classics to read, recommended by a friend who lists Moravia as one of the best Italian authors of the 20th century.
Som det står någonstans i boken började hans desperata jakt på normalitet i "the moment that being different meant being guilty", alltså i det ögonblick annorlundaheten blev synonym med en upplevelse av skuld (eller skam, vill jag nog tillägga).Att betala för denna normalitet genom att nonchalera fascismens lögner och övergrepp blir för Clerici ett pris värt att betala, samtidigt som det ytterligare lägger sten på börda genom att öka hans skam/skuld - Clerici blir ett slags medskyldig till fascismens övergrepp, men han kan inte vända den fascistiska normaliteten ryggen för då tvingas han istället konfrontera sin personliga skam/skuld, vilket skulle betyda hans undergång.
Of course & obviously, like other books that have been adapted to film, this contains so much more detail about the characters' backgrounds; and studies far deeper the root motivation for Marcello Clerici's internal struggles, specifically.
I found this to be far less political and instead really a study into a man's fear of himself & his perceived deviance and temptations.
Both horrifying and completely plausible, set in an age that would bring itself and modern Europe to complete destruction almost entirely, Moravia explains the darker side of a generation that has been far too mythologised into either depthless heroes or cartoonish villains; and instead captures the mood of a time that inevitably would define our modern existence, and existentialist dilemmas.
What's not to like about a classic novel set in Rome and Paris with elements of politcal murder and foreign intrique, questions of beauty and love, and buoyant doses of Oedipal anxiety?
Poor Marcello Clerici, our anti-hero, with a lunatic for a father and a wastrel for a mother not only has evil thoughts, but is the target of a child abuser.
Along the way, he acquires a wife and child, that do not quell his uncomfortable urge to be like others (as he perceives them) no matter what he must supress in himself or express as a government secret agent.
For years I've been a huge fan of Bertolucci's film adaptation of The Conformist, and am now a huge 
The main character is a flawed member of the government network that is out to destroy its enemies.
Parts of the story are farcical and amusing, but overall the story is disturbing because the key themes apply to many aspects of society today.
The main character's wife maintains a steadfast and unending loyalty to the fascist regime right to the end.
Her shallow happiness and stupidity were breathtaking right through to the end, but she represents a large portion of society in any age that fail to comprehend the overall changes that are happening around them.
A novel about normalcy, innocence, redemption, justification, eroticism, and alienation from oneself.
One is caught up in the world of a protagonist with whom it is hard to sympathize, and yet he is more like oneself than any of us would like to think.The novel reads like a parable, but it isn’t clear that it is one.
It’s a very internal novel full of detailed but often distorted, always personal descriptions of externals.
It’s a cross between a nineteenth-century novel and an existentialist work.
It is seriously lacking in subtlety and yet hard to figure out.
What impressed me most about this very European novel is that it combines lengthy passages written in a heavily realistic style with somewhat shorter ones that are dreamlike.
Somehow Moravia gets away with this.
I believe this novel is often described as the story of a man, Marcello, whose urge to conform causes him to become a fascist.
Yes, he does become a fascist but as 'Il Conformists' closes, Marcello accepts the verdict of Lino t hat everything is determined by "fatalità," It's the story of a man who becomes a fatalist, incapable of perceiving meaning in anything.
I read this book because I have been studying Italian films and the film of this novel was listed for viewing. I found the book quite unconvincing in its portrayal of a typical Italian fascist. Moravia insisted too much that the character's actions were dictated by his sexually repressed personality. Utimately the character was a pawn to Moravia's thesis rather than a convincing human character. The film was much better than the novel but it still suffered from the problem the reader/viewer has when the central character lacks all human emotion and is supplied with unconvincing motivations.
KOBOBOOKS
Another great one from my new boyfriend, Alberto Moravia. I liked the movie a lot, too.
Wonderful plot and characterisation, and every other element. Every book by Moravia I read is a delight so far. A master presenter of human moments and lifetimes.
Read this book in the original Italian, while studying the language in college. I really should read it again in English as i don't remember it very well!
Brilliant, beautifully written and deeply thoughtful. Thoroughly recommend.
Psychologically dark, profound and existential. Clerici's pursuit of normalcy is a meaningless avenue to escape his perceived abnormality. This is definitely my favorite novel by Moravia!
Libro bellissimo e avvincente! :D
