https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131633.The_Weird_of_the_White_Wolf
This third volume of the series—according to the Elric chronology—includes the two Elric stories Moorcock wrote first, the novellas “The Dreaming City” and “While the Gods Laugh" (each published in a separate issue of Science Fantasy in 1961).
Heartache and the sense of a merciless fate pervade the atmosphere here.The effect of these stories is somewhat lightened by two other pieces: a prequel, “The Dream of Earl Aubec,” which reveals the origin of the Young Kingdoms, and “The Singing Citidel,” in which Balo the Jester to the Gods makes a disorienting appearance on earth.
Before getting reacquainted with the ongoing saga of Elric, the albino sorcerer king that spent the previous volume as a vagabond mercenary, self-exiled from his own people and from the throne he inherited, Moorcock offers us a glimpse at the cosmology underlying his imaginary universe in  The Dream of Earl Aubec.
Like Elric, Aubec decides that even if the questions are unanswerable, the only thing a man can do is to pick up his sword and go into the unknown, to carve out his own fate.
As in the opening story of Earl Aubec, the symbiotic/ parasytic relationship between the sword and its master here mirrors the internal struggle within the soul of the main character, the eternal battle between Chaos and Order.
The writer walks the careful line of making him and his quest larger than life, full of magic and conquest, sea battles, monster battles, and even going so far as to open the book of life, as stolen by the greatest necromancer...
We're always meant to come away with the same conclusions as Elric, the great and evil Elric, deciding to give the world the misery it so seems to desire.Pretty powerful stuff, really, and these really should be placed in their proper time, the sixties and seventies, introducing us to the template to one of the greatest tragic heroes and sometimes horrendous villains.
Good entry in the series, with Elric at his moody and glum best, determinedly going through every eerie magical door and portal he finds, to arrive at the usual trippy building made of some strange rainbow crystal or distorting interdimensional masonry. Another day in the multiverse.
In my last two reviews, I have talked about how Moorcock's fevered imagination keeps these books aloft, even when the plot seems to grow disconnected from the series, or the characters grow repetitive, but he seems to be losing steam, for this book moves along apace, advancing the plot here and there, but not materially adding anything new to our understanding of the world or the characters.Moorcock's shorter plot arcs lack the grand set pieces and focus which make Leiber's and Howard's works so delightful, and even if the brief episodes which make up the larger plot might be called 'short stories', they do not show the completeness or unity of idea of Conan or Lankhmar.I keep longing for a return to form from Moorcock, wishing that he could combine those moments of lucid, pretty prose with his wild metaphysical magics and the brooding introspection which first defined Elric.
Now the only way to correct his own stupidity is to sacrifice his own people and to live with this memory for the rest of his life.
The book is notable for the fact that Elric acquires a sidekick in it.
This is a typical Elric book: larger than life magic, meddling gods who never show up when they are really needed, an anti-hero, struggle of Chaos and Law on grand scale (by the way, the author is the guy who brought the concept of law and chaos in role-playing games) - these are all there.
In the incarnation of Elric of Melnibone, a man weak in body except when augmented by the stolen souls provided through the medium of the perilous sword Stormbringer, he is powerful in intellect, passion and magic.
Yet more than that, he is a man who is the very embodiment of the hard choices which Fate can inflict on a soul.
An unforgettable anti-hero, and this is just one installment in the series of his personal incarnation.
An outstanding line of books for lovers of saga and epic fantasies, sword and sorcery which blasts its unforgettable images into your heart and soul.
Excellent entry in the saga, finds Elric at his darkest hour and the prologue offers hints toward more darkness still to come. Book one Elric at his most Melnibonean and his greatest despair so far. Book two his hopes are dashed again and book three a return to form as he defeats a great enemy and is once again thwarted in vengence.
The first such task involves a fairly trite and hyper-powered quest for a Super Book of some sort or another.I get that these types of occurrences are features, instead of bugs, when it comes to sword & sorcery--but what is more or less unforgiveable in this installment is that Elric's prior war against memory is largely left aside, and instead he becomes a fucking fundamentalist, wondering if the Super Book will tell him whether "an ultimate God exists" (77).

So far I'm able to read one Elric volume per day.
Eat this, George R.R. Martin.
With the third volume, all my worries that Elric might turn into a boring white knight are blown away.
On the contrary, he's more bad-ass than ever, annihilating his own civilization, earning the title womankiller and becoming the most notorious villain of the multiverse.
Way to go!Again, friends come and go, usually by death caused by our hero.
Women are consummated, Elric moves on.
Mysterious places, other planes, demons aplenty.
A breathless fighting fantasy romp where my search for deeper meaning gets lost in the pace of events.
I have a sweet-tooth for Fantasy, and Elric is like pudding. It goes down smooth, and I always have a taste for more. It may not be as well crafted as the decadent chocolate cakes of high fantasy, but then again it doesn't leave me in a sugar crash with rasberry sauce all over my shirt.
Seems I had already read this as part of Elric of Melniboné (Tale of the Eternal Champion #8).. Oh well
La situación deriva en una tragedia griega que sella el destino del antihéroe.El segundo relato, Los Dioses Ríen, es una interesante aventura en donde Elric se aliará con una mujer para encontrar un libro que quizá le dé las respuestas existenciales que tanto busca.
Aquí destaca porque aparece por primera vez el elemento "cliché" de las historias de espada y brujería, que es el compañero fiel que de ahora en adelante ayudará al protagonista en sus viajes.Finalmente, tenemos La Ciudadela Cantante, quizá la más "made in Conan" de este pequeño tomo, donde el prota ayudará a una reina a expulsar de sus tierras una desconocida amenaza que habita dentro de una ciudadela que ha venido de otra dimensión.Son tan solo 150 páginas, dosis más que suficientes, para disfrutar de estos relatos, que solo se diferencian del bárbaro de Robert E.

Michael Moorcock, The Weird of the White Wolf (DAW, 1977)The third book in the Elric series introduces the reader to Moonglum, Elric's longtime companion (and, thanks to AD&D's Deities and Demigods book, the companion most readers can't imagine him without).
For those wondering, whether you've read the book or not: the "weird" of the title is an archaic definition of the term, given by Merriam Webster as "One's assigned lot or fortune, especially when evil." And when he finds it, he's not all that happy about it.

I have to say I couldn't remember anything about this book since the first time I read it, none of the individual stories had stuck in my mind at all.This time, incongruities in the plot grated with me a bit.
The first story starts with Elric about to lead an invasion party with the intention of burning Imrryr to the ground and wiping out his entire race.
Doesn't really make sense to me.All in all the stories herein are all okay but quite forgettable.
Worth reading, perhaps, as part of full story of Elric.
Michael Moorcock ramps things up with this third volume of Elric tales. This story includes a prologue that introduces two very interesting characters before moving on to Elric, who is returning after his year of adventure to exact his revenge on the man who tried to kill him and usurp his throne. The relationship between Elric and his sword, Stormbringer, builds during this novel. I'm finding these compelling reads. A more detailed review can be found here:http://www.stainlesssteeldroppings.co...
Elric is no longer the same man who left Melnibone with mind to learn of the ways of men.
his doom drove him to many unknown lands, to worlds beyond his own and left him ever more tormented and no closer to discovering the purpose of his existance.
He is met with sorrow and knowledge does not rid him of it.
He can only accept that he is no more than a pawn, a device for the gods to carry out their cosmic plans whose rules remain unclear to humankind.
Although he is bitter, his character is not weak and he battles still, refusing to give way to death and humiliation.
I love these Elric books, the best stuff Moorcock did. It's genre pulp so don't look for high-mindedness. But a classic anti-hero, whoopin ass with sword and sorcery. I first found these around 13 and they still hold up...at least for my inner 13 year old.
Review coming eventually
I'm starting to think that maybe I should have left these books in the nostalgia-tinted corner of my mind in which they had resided since I was 10 or so.
As I say, the temptation to scream at Elric to find a competent psychiatric professional is a strong one, if only because my smug contemporary POV offers options.So you see him brighten up, off and on, in some of these stories, usually in reference to some detail, and you think, Well, maybe this is it; here's a little window into his soul and he'll realize that absolution doesn't come in the form of gimmicks and guffins.
It doesn't take into account origins or conclusions, so it's probably not a good place to decide, "Well, this is the Elric we're stuck with."
Este volume contém as primeiras histórias do imperador caído e mago albino Elric of Melniboné, escritas por Moorcock, nos anos 60; exceto o primeiro conto "The Dream of Earl Aubec", originalmente publicado depois.
"The Dreaming City" foi a primeira história de Elric publicada.
Mas, cronologicamente, ela conta eventos posteriores aos romances Elric of Melniboné, The Fortress of the Pearl e The Sailor on the Seas of Fate.
"While the Gods Laugh" é a melhor história do volume.
Ele consegue criar uma trama de fantasia movimentada com um fundo filosófico instigante.
Para os fãs de fantasia heroica, é uma leitura obrigatória.
Moorcock sabe guiar el relato en base a esta condena: Elric es un personaje que despierta empatía en el lector, pese a su carácter sádico y vengativo, y por lo tanto sufrimos con él a medida que se revela cómo es juguete de su destino y de la espada demoníaca que le permite vivir, pero también lo condena a la soledad y el desprecio de los demás.Por otra parte, lamento que el único personaje que se desarrolle bien en todas las novelas es Elric, mientras Moonglum, Dyvim Slorm, Rackhir y Zarozinia apenas son esbozados.
réellement cette serie est excellente.
Anyways, Elric runs to save his female cousin / lover Cymoril from his male cousin Yyrkoon (again) and finds her in a sleep spell (again) and him waiting to fight him with the second magic sword (again).
Yeah you idiot; keep running away from happiness and forcing drama in the story instead of ending it SINCE THE FIRST BOOK!Then a third chick appears and this time asks Elric to stop a tower from the realm of chaos from taking over the world.
So he goes there with an army of hundreds and confronts a god-like jester who for no apparent reason asks from Elric to be his companion.
Tell me why it's taken me three books to realize Elric calls on dark spirits??? I'm dumb
By now, Elric's fought gods, sorcerers entrenched in buildings, demon princes and monsters powerful enough to threaten every world ever conceived or that ever could be conceived (including ours - gulp), and so when he runs across a pack of dogs with bird beaks, I'm not worried.While this is probably the worst book in the series, it does have a few cool features the other installments lack:1) The prologue, which documents the creation of the Young Kingdoms, is well-done, colorful, and engaging.
