https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/781498.The_Day_Jimmy_s_Boa_Ate_the_Wash
“The Day Jimmy’s Boa Ate the Wash” is a truly hilarious story from the creative mind of Trinka Hakes Noble along with illustrations by Steven Kellogg and it is about a girl’s wild adventures at the field trip to the farm.
“The Day Jimmy’s Boa Ate the Wash” is definitely one of the most memorable books about farm adventures ever written that many children will enjoy for years!Trinka Hakes Noble has done an excellent job at writing this story as it details a girl’s adventures at the farm.
This is a quirky children’s book. A child comes home from a school trip to a farm, and when asked how the trip was, regales her mother with stories of the remarkable misadventures that the class gets up to
The kid is currently in a Boa phase and wants to read this and only this before bed.
“The Day Jimmy’s Boa Ate the Wash” is definitely an original book.
The storyline is told in a backwards progression, as well as a cause and effect.
The story is about a little girl telling her mother in a matter-of-fact sort of way about her field trip to the farm that day.
Why were you throwing corn?" The little girls continues to answer her mothers questions only leaving her mother more confused by the situation.
Even though the storyline is a bit juvenal for that age group but is a wonderful teaching tool and example of writing dialog.
I love, love, love this book!
I can not say enough good about it.
It's perfect for second graders - so engaging, so funny.
I am sure it would be that way for lots of grades, but I happen to teach second.
I used it to teach predicting with my kids.
You know, good readers predict all the time.
This book is PERFECT for that, especially the second mini-lesson.
No one, and I do mean, no one can predict the way this loony narrator's mind works.
A fantastic, funny, endlessly engaging book.
This book is great, apart from the wonderful story, because it tells the story backwards, in the form of the daughter recounting what happened to her mother, and because the illustrations are part of the story. I recommend to anyone with children or who, like me, has never lost her love for children's stories.
This is a crazy story that is funny to read aloud. The trip to the farm becomes a hectic, silly event all when Jimmy's boa gets loose. Our girls enjoyed this story very much. I loved the backward, roundabout way the little girl tells the story and the illustrations are fun, too.
Fun story told backwards... the way a parent has to keep asking their child for more and more info to understand the entire story. I always love Steven Kellogg's brilliant illustrations.
Cute, fun kids book! This easy but different enough story should interest children because of the small tensions and the humorous antics of the characters. Recommended if you have a young one.
THIS IS A GOOD 'UN!
A fun children's book to read. Reminds me a little of if you give a mouse a cookie and the adventures kids seems to have.
"The Day Jimmy's Boa Ate the Wash" is a unique piece of literature.
This book describes a young child's field trip to the farm.
In the child's explanation, she tells a story about a cow crying, pigs eating the students' lunches on the bus, Jimmy's boa constrictor eating the wash, and many other interesting elements.
Obviously, it is very unlikely for these events to occur like they were described in the story.
This book, as a result, displays how a child's mind can work and how their imagination can be extremely creative.
This book unique and would be a great addition to any children's library.
A class field trip to a farm turns chaotic as the students throw eggs at one another, the pigs eat the students’ lunches on the bus and Jimmy’s pet boa constrictor upsets the chickens and the farmer’s wife.Good story to discuss dialogue. Also, the idea of how things build gradually - information released a little at a time.
Not sure how I missed this one when I was younger. I even knew it was a Reading Rainbow book, but I guess I didn't really watch that show. I'm glad I had the chance to read it now. A funny story with some terrific illustrations!
Super fun structure. Great story.
This was a classic from my childhood! Still love it. Kellogg's illustrations are A+
A funny story about a child’s imagination regarding a class field trip to the farm. I really likes how it was illustrated.
I absolutely loved this book as a child. If I could only convey what a magical part of my childhood books were. Steven Kellogg is an amazing artist. I now own a copy of this book for my kids <3
This is a fun and upbeat book.
October 2017 - I missed this one as a kid, but we both thought it was funny.
A humorous book about a class trip to a farm gone awry.
Great example of cause and effect.
This book is a hilarious classic, and Steven Kellog's illustration make it even better. I love the whole series about Jimmy's boa
This is a silly book that children love! It has a great rhythm when reading it out loud. The illustrations are really funny!
I do not care for this book because it is a mild read, and I've read it so many times to my preschool class, that it is old.
A great book and amazing illustrations again by Steven Kellogg! The book is so funny and full of life through the storytelling of Meggie, the main character and the end is delicious! Love this book!
I always loved this series, and would laugh at the antics of Jimmy’s boa constrictor. I also adore the illustrations. This book, and others in the series, are sure to delight children.
This is a little girl's story about what happened during her class's field trip to her mother. I would use this book as a read aloud and pair it with a craft assignment.
Book summary: This is an award winning book.
It is well written, funny and a good read.Grade level: K-3Appropriate classroom use: This could be a good book to help students identify words and read the words aloud.
Students that want a light heart-ed good read.Small group use: I could break the class up into small literature circles and in these groups they can work on reading and pronouncing words.Whole class use: I would read this book aloud to the students.
It has fun pictures to show too.Related books: Kevin Henkes books (the author), other caldecott medal winning books, picture books.
This would be a good book to use when showing the class how to be descriptive. Also a good mentor text when students are creating their own nonfiction stories.
