https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185253.The_Magic_of_Recluce
Everything is so perfect and ordered that it is perceived as being boring to our hero, Lerris.
But, like any good heroic fantasy, this reluctant, unlikely hero does save the day.Lerris was a bit annoying at first, like one of those eternally bored youngsters that made my life miserable when I taught.
I liked how the order in persons and things were manipulated by Lerris and his eventual mentor, gray (mostly black but a little white) wizard, Justen.
Although this story is focused on Lerris, there are some interesting secondary characters, and quite a lot of strong, well-developed women characters.
Fills in Dorrin's story a bit.14 - Colors of Chaos - Year 1205 - Cerryl finds that he had only begun to discover the problems facing Fairhaven and the White Order and now must cope with dangers from all over Candar, from Recluce, and from within Fairhaven itself, including the jealousy and instability of the High Wizard himself.14.3 - "Armsman's Odds" takes place near the end of the above, but the motivation for the story takes place before The White Order.
I debated the rating on this and went with 4.The above was my original review of this book, I'm a little surprised that it got a vote (LOL).
While others have expressed negative opinions of the book it seems every time I read it I like it better.
This time I "read" the audio version of the book.
a couple of the other readers in the group noted that all tyhe sound effects in the book annoyed the,(biff, splush, zingggg, swish, etc.).
I have to admit there are a lot of them, however far from annoying me now when I hear the exceptional number of sound effects, I tend to crack up.
The story is slow because it takes a long time for the main character, Lerris, to develop to a point where we feel invested in him as a person; by the time that happens, the story is nearly over, and suddenly he's fighting the evil wizard.
There is a difference between giving someone the answers and debating a point, and the knowledgeable characters of this book seem to confuse the two concepts.The Magic of Recluce is a highly logistical fantasy novel.
It gave me some time to mull over the vagueness surrounding order/chaos theory.As far as characterization goes, I honestly didn't pay attention to any of the characters except for the few main ones.
There are three reasons why I love The Magic of Recluce: 1) it's not like the Star Wars movies in one crucial way; 2) it is built around training rather than adventure; 3) woodworking.1) Not Star Wars: There is a line in Empire Strikes Back where Yoda says, "A Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, NEVER for attack." There is no equivocation in that.
Lerris learns and that is good.3) Woodworking: This may seem like an odd reason for loving the story, but the woodworking is quite a beautiful addition to The Magic of Recluce.
The relationships and manipulations of chaos and order are what end up defining good and evil here.There are some small breaks in the course of the novel where the author switches to a present tense third person and gives us hints as to other happenings away from Lerris.
I was able to live with them eventually, my eyes blurring over and past to the real narrative beyond.Overall, I give this book high points for the world building, the magic system, the characters, and the writing voice used by Modesitt over the course of most of the novel.
Αυτή η δημιουργική διαχείριση περιλαμβάνει την εξορία τους σε άλλα μέρη του πλανήτη όπου εκεί καλούνται να βρουν το δρόμο τους αλλά και να βοηθήσουν στην σταθεροποίηση αυτών των περιοχών όπου αποστέλλονται.Ένας από αυτούς είναι ο νεαρός ήρωάς μας που βαριέται αφόρητα τη ζωή που το έχουν ορίσει και ζητάει να κάνει κάτι συναρπαστικότερο.
Γρήγορα, όμως, καταλαβαίνεις ότι τα πράγματα είναι πολύ δύσκολα καθώς απέναντί του βρίσκονται οι μαγικές δυνάμεις του χάους που απειλούν να καταστρέψουν τα πάντα και μετά να εξαπλώσουν την επιρροή τους σε ολόκληρο τον πλανήτη.
If you are looking for a story with character growth, Lerris' journey as an exile from Recluce will fit that bill.
If you are looking for a new fantasy world with a detailed history, divergent societies, a logical robust magic system, with a different spin on the age-old struggle between angels and demons, good and evil, black and white, order and chaos, then you've come to the right story and series.
Modesitt's Recluce series reminds me of Asimov's robot stories.
I'm so disappointed that I didn't like this one, I really tried to give it a fair go, and I read about halfway through, but to be honest it was stressing me out and I had to leave it!It wasn't all negative as I really did enjoy the beginning of the book.
Modesitt showed himself to be skilled at world building and really weaved in beautiful details of culture and scenery into the narrative.
Don't give me a 'thwack' and bits of broken up conversation!Anyway I'm still glad I tried a new author, I mean you don't know until you try right?
It was a real journey of discovery that first time as Modesitt built the complicated world through Lerris' eyes, a young, disaffected man who was ignorant of so much.
I guess he's a lot smarter than I am.My favorite parts were the woodworking & the horse (large pony).
I'm a woodworker &, if it isn't obvious from my profile picture, ride a large pony of my own & even use a hackamore on him.
There were some obvious oversights in both, but Modesitt does a far better job than most & at least he tried hard.IMO, this book reads a lot better in chronological order than published order.
Klasican Modesit. Pun detalja sa interesantnom postavkom i malim brojem likova. Nazalost likovi nisu suvise duboko razredjeni ali opet dosta se lako cita ako ne smeta spor napredak radnje.
As per usual in this kind of story, he discovers that he has talents he never suspected, that his parents aren’t who he thought they were, and that non-utopian life can be rather difficult.
When he needs someone to bring him down a peg or two, there’s Tamra.
When he needs a romantic interest, there’s Krystal.
It’s nice that they’re intelligent and talented, but they don’t get to shine, at least in this first book.
That reminds me of Julian May’s Saga of Pliocene Exile enough to pique my curiosity and send me looking for at least the second book in the series.
A coming of age novel set in a fantastic world (aren't they all?), The Magic Of Recluce often seems bogged down in diurnal detail: meals at inns, distances travelled, long hours of discomfort, but I can also see how Modesitt felt the need to include these things as a way to ground his fantasy narrative, give it a lived-in feel.
This book also features the single most awesome pony in all of fantastic fiction.So there you go: a middling epic fantasy novel that offers an interesting take on magic, a richly imagined world, a predictable but exciting plot, some infelicities of style and a certain shallowness of charaterisation.
Read with the #MagicalModesitt group-read organised by Jacob."Chaos is concentrated anarchy, if you will. Order is diffused by nature. They have to balance."Wow. What an interesting magic system. Yin/Yang balance, Order vs Chaos, Black vs White, philosophy of mind, consequences, Newton' 3rd law... and all the gray in between! I like it! Recluce will now be added to my #FinishTheSeries TBR. When I have time to update it. Lol.[Pending Review]
This wasn't bad, but I don't think it was particularly what I was looking for. The writing was good and the story had some neat magical elements to it, but I found it to drag a bit too much and I was not as happy with the coming of age nature of the plot. It could be a case of me just choosing the wrong book so taker this review with a grain of salt. I just found it to be too long and too dry to make up for the moments of sizzle.
Presumably, while performing this mission, the dangergelder will come to find his or her place in the world and come back to Recluce, or find a spot in the outside world to live after the mission is accomplished.Lerris gets trained, leaves Recluce, and the fun begins.The GoodAs stated before, the magic system is logical and cool: Order magic is more focused on strengthening that which already exists and Chaos magic is more focused on weakening existing things.Other reviews have said that the story keeping track of the character's money and their financial struggles was dull.
Fun. I'll eventually pick up the rest of the related novels ("series").The Seasonal Reading Challenge Task 15.4(This task normally requires two books, but if you can make one book both of the parts, it counts!Part 1: single author initials (L.E.M.) found in "Acropolis Museum"Part 2: book title initial letters (TMOR) found in "Metropolitan"Also, with the MMPB at 501 pp. don't forget that this is a Big Book!
But like I said - the ride to get there was interesting, I just would have liked some more hints as to what the overall plot was a little earlier on.Now back to the annoying component..
By the time they did show up I was already interested in the story, so I pushed through.
So overall - the story/characters/magic/world in general gets four stars, but I have to take off a star for the sound effects.
I will likely read on in the series, but I'm definitely keeping my fingers crossed that the sound effects go away.
See, here's the thing: if the main character is bored and annoyed all the time for no particular reason, it makes for a pretty boring and annoying read that doesn't seem to be going in any particular direction.In the meantime, the magical and fantastic stuff gets completely glossed over in the beginning, making it hard to understand just what in the hell is going on.
Maybe when I have fewer books on my to-read pile, I'll try to slog through this lumbering mess again to see if it gets any better.
“Be on your way, boy. Just remember, you can always come back, once you discover who you are.” In a time when readers are demanding for fast-paced, action-packed, non-stop entertaining, easy quick reads - this should have been a safe haven; a resting stop. A recluse.There's nothing worse than unfulfilled potential.
The first in a series about the battle between two opposing forces: chaos and order.
Recluce is a city of almost pure order, where people who compromise that order are exiled.
The main character, Lerris, is dissatisfied with never getting straight answers and hopelessly bored.
But, like any good heroic fantasy, this reluctant, unlikely hero does save the day.The book started very slowly, until Lerris is sent for training, where Modesitt started the world building.
His magic system was unorthodox: black wizards are good and white wizards are evil, for example.
Once Lerris got settled, the pacing improved.
Ich weiß noch, dass mich die Reihe beim ersten Lesen total begeistert hat, sodass ich auch nach dem Einstellen der Übersetzung ins Deutsche einige Bände auf Englisch gekauft und gelesen habe.
Im ersten Band lernen wir den Jugendlichen Lerris von der Insel Recluce, dem Hoheitsgebiet der Ordnungsmagie, kennen und folgen ihm auf sein Abenteuer, als er von der Insel für eine gewisse Zeit verbannt wird, weil er sich den unausgesprochenen Regeln und Gesetzen nicht unterwerfen kann und aus Unzufriedenheit und Langeweile zu viele Fragen stellt.
Mit ihm zusammen lernen wir als Leser, was hinter Ordnung und Chaos steckt, aber mir ging es beim Lesen manchmal wie Lerris: das Fehlen von Erklärungen kann frustrierend sein.
Wow!
This was such a great great book!I loved the writer style, such an unusual one, with a great deal of attention to the small details, with a conventional evolution of the story, a become of age, but in the same time, an unusual structure to it and not to speak of all the sounds that are described in this book.
I want moree!!
This book is so good it's not even funny.
I read it in China while teaching at a public school and it was nice to come home in the evenings and have this escape.I thought it started out slow, at an island academy.
Things picked up and I liked the skip in time.
You really see some good magic system development here with how things decay with the use of magic.
I've read the initial series up to Fall of Angels or Book 6 or whatever and they're all good.
This one is the best and I look forward to reading it again soon.
I enjoyed the worldbuilding and the story, but there were definitely some annoying aspects of the book that kept my rating at three stars.
One of the limitations of first person narratives is, of course, that the reader only can know what the narrator knows; Modesitt got around this by including several random third-person interludes to explain events happening elsewhere, and they just didn't fit.
I think they also were not entirely necessary and the book would have read much more smoothly had the author found a different way to convey the information.
Really, really annoying.All that said, it was an enjoyable story, with an interesting take on the balance between Order and Chaos, and I'm glad I read it.
(Everyone only sweats from their forehead for some reason and the only types of wood worth mentioning are white, red and black oak.)I believe this was the authors first book and there is enough here to make me want to read more of this world.
According to what I have read the Recluce books are all set in the same world, but at different points in history, so not really a series in the traditional sense.3.5 stars rounded down to 3 for some repetitive phrasing.
Hard to rate. Three stars was a gift.Great created universe, but amateurish storytelling. Liked how he explained the "physics" of chaos and order magic without booing too far into techniques. Too much scene-setting at the beginning. (Modesitt must have told us once a page for the first hundred pages that Lerris was bored. We got it, already.) Much repetition in words and information. His sound effects distracted more than contributed.Needed a map.Since Modesitt apparently created a Robert-Jordan-style franchise of Recluse, we can only hope that he got better in subsequent novels.
Review to follow...
I wrote a review and then deleted it because I wrote it after a couple drinks. But. I dnf'd this one. Don't like the mc. Don't care to read more.
This book follows the story of Lerris, a young apprentice woodworker who is bored by basically everything.
The world of recluse is an intersting one.
Based on one novel it seems that there is little to no God-like figures in their world.
In the first book at least there are no supernatural creatures.I intend to keep reading in the series but I am a little daunted by the fact that the series jumps around quite a bit in the entire thousands years history of the world.
We do not get to see Lerris again until book 5.
