https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18282.The_Basic_Problems_of_Phenomenology
I read this ages ago and wish I still had a copy on my shelf. There is a good chunk available at googlebooks ; check out the ToC.Basic Problems, a lecture course, belongs with that cluster of Heidegger texts which provide an ergänzung of Sein und Zeit, ie, the main thrust of his thinking prior to the famous Kehre. Among that cluster find also the Kant book and The Fundamental Concepts of Metaphysics. Heidegger is clearer and more fun to read than Husserl.
As a transcript of the lecture course delivered at University of Marburg, summer 1927, this book is an important supplement to Martin Heidegger's  Being and Time  which was then just published. First, Part Two (The Fundamental Ontological Question of the Meaning of Being in General), though unfinished, provides an example of going from the revealed horizon of original temporality back to the ontological question (the meaning of being) and further to Dasein's basic comportment. As the editor Frie
After all, Being and Time already reaches, through lengthy investigation on Daseinanalytik and fundamental ontology, the point where the constitutive role of temporality is revealed and a retroactive interpretation of Being from this newly-achieved horizon is in order.However, this book does not start from here.
Instead, Heidegger presents an examination of four theses concerning the meaning of being from the history of philosophy:1) Kant's thesis that being is not a real predicate (the ontological difference between beings and being);2) The medieval doctrine that each to being belongs essentia and existentia (the articulation of being into different senses);3) The Cartesian distinction between res extensa and res cogitans (the distinction of different modes of being);4) The thesis of logic that being is the copula (the underlying general sense of being and its relation to truth).These theses themselves follow an intrinsic order of gradual discovery.
This book contains what was projected to be division iii, where Heidegger was supposed to take a more in depth approach as far as the destruktion of Kantian existence as position, existence as substance as posited by medieval ontology, basic ways of being as dualism between res extensa and res cogitans, and the cupola, or that every being regardless of its being can be talked about in terms of "is." Then the book goes into an incredibly detailed and methodical exposition of Aristotle's time, and finally into Praesens as the ontological horizon of all presence.
Where newtons laws "true" before Newton? Is the "true" objective,subjective,or neither? What about time? In this book, heidegger goes in depth into aristotle's thoughts on time with some passing remarks on Augustine's thoughts on time before giving his own questions on time. The apriori is not eternal or timeless. Time is the earliest of the early and "earlier" than even the apriori as possibility. Much clearer and in depth than Being and Time. Only place I can think of that has an adequate discussion of "horizon."
Reading this in order to get a sense of how it helps connect Being and Time to the Beitrage --- some folks suggest Basic Problems is B+T Division Three?Much clearer accounts of temporality than in B+T...more to be said on this later. Also, presumably one of the more important and lucid prefatory statements to the history of Being qua temporalizing of temporarily that will appear in the Beitrage.
One of my favorite Heidegger lecture courses. A solid introduction to Heidegger's thought that touches lightly on Being and Time and the history of metaphisics before beginning the innitial steps towards the leap(Heidegger fanboys will understand).
A GOOD'UNAs is usually the case with the German philosophy professor Martin Heidegger, this is a won
The text is of a course that he gave right around the time of the publication of BT, so this book would be considered early Heidegger, which helps with getting a better footing when trying to tackle BT.
I will return to this text for further study as I know that I haven't gotten the whole of what Heidegger was trying to lay out and I assume this will be the case for some time.Lastly, I've heard many online say that this could be a substitute to BT, I partially agree with this only on the grounds of it being more understandable than BT but there really isn't any substitute for actually digging into BT.
142.7 H465p 1988
Much of this is the focus of the first section of this book; the second section deals with how temporality is the ground for ontology - and all that comes with it.
Reading this work can help you get a better understanding of Heidegger's overall project, and why he has arrived at some of the conclusions he has.
But for the beginner...what I would recommend is to read and understand Kant, first.
Get a good understanding of Kant (especially the First Critique) and then go read Heidegger.
Take this unintelligible paragraph, for example, when Heidegger gets mired in his own jargon-filled mumbo-jumbo (p.
Notice must be taken--we have already touched on this in our presentation of Kant--that the possible, res, quidditas, also has a certain being: to be possible is different from to be actual.
If reality and possibile coincide, it is worthy of note than in Kant reality and possibility belong to different classes of categories, quality and modality.
Realitas, too, is a specific mode of being of the real, just as actuality is that of the actual.Look perplexed.
Look very perplexed.
partially read?
