https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27397.A_Civil_Action
Litigation – A machine which you go into as a pig and come out of as a sausage. Ambrose BierceI read this book early in my legal career, probably 20 years ago. It's a fascinating, relatively suspenseful account of a modern-day tragedy that offers the truest view of civil litigation, at least in the federal courts.In Woburn, Massachusetts (not far from Boston) in the 1980s, a cluster (or a particular area with a high incidence) of leukemia developed. Families of the leukemia victims retained the
The law firm hired experts who found high concentrations in the Woburn water supply of trichloroethylene (TCE), a chemical commonly used in production processes and known to be a possible cause of cancer.
Such an outcome is devastating to plaintiffs who count on the jury being swayed by human nature to err on the side of caution on the causation issue due to the obvious and awful effects of leukemia on its victims and their families.In a suit for environmental contamination (or med malpractice or products liability) the expenses for experts can rapidly reach astronomical proportions.
A frightening look at how the legal system can be completely biased, self-serving, and how one judge can destroy the lives of so many - not to mention the Court of Appeals holding up inadequate, ridiculous decisions all based on res judicata. For anyone wanting to be a lawyer, or who is currently a lawyer, this book resonates. Incredibly well researched by the author. You think the novel is going to end with a Hurrah!, but instead goes a completely different way, inevitably questioning how long you should hang on, and when it is time to give up.
What do large companies (WR Grace & Beatice) think more of: profit -or- the harm their products bring to people?
This book (and movie) shows a lawyer fighting a losing battle no matter what happens to him.
There are parts hard to read but it is great.You must see the movie!
His tannery was torn down in 1990.W.R. Grace was indicted by the Grand Jury for making false statements regarding its use of TCE regarding its use of the chemicals TCE, acetone and toluene.
The company pleaded no contest to the acetone charge.
Amazingly reported and beautifully written. Should be required reading, not just in law schools, but all schools, period.(Best GR review I saw: I have friends who live in Woburn; I think I'll drink bottled water when I go visit.)
Excellent!After the first couple of pages, the book took off and held me on the edge of the seat right through to the end.
It's not very often that I read into the wee hours of the morning to finish a book, but this one grabbed and held me through and through.
At times I couldn't believe that such events were happening here in the US in ordinary towns.
It scares me to think what would happen with lax environmental laws.This book is perhaps some vindication, but it's also a wake-up call to all of us.
Could this happen to me?....
The discovery process lead to years of deposed witnesses and experts, and the actual trial lasted for months.
The people in the story, from the fanatically determined Schlichtmann to the droll Jermore Facher, the Hale & Dorr lawyer for Beatrice, to the ornery District Judge Walter Skinner, to the families of the children, all come across with their own qualities and foibles, and one gets the sense of a real honest appraisal of their characters and their role in the drama.
I'm in the business. This was an accurate and well written book about an actual case, with its myriad twists and turns. Harr presents the events like it's a suspense/ mystery novel but the book is all the more fascinating because it's a true story.
Perhaps, even Jonathan Harr did not fully understand the real meaning of the story that he very ably delivers.
Rather, the plaintiffs chose as their lawyer a man who was unqualified to represent them.
He was never suited for the difficult job that faced him.
He lacked the mental and material resources to do the job correctly.
He managed to maneuver the defendants into each offering him a settlement that together would have been quite large enough to constitute a serious "win" in any lawyer's understanding of that term.
That was a failure of a particular man.
An inside look at the case that made Jan Schlictmann famous: unscrupulous corporations poisoning the ground water supply, causing deaths and illness in the local community, and working to cover it up.
And no matter how right you are, life just sometimes is the pits, like when opposing counsel might be rather cozy with a judge who doesn't want his friend to look bad.
This book will also make anyone think twice about Tea Party / Republican claims that "corporations know best" and "we have too much regulation" and "regulations kill jobs." Regulations might kill a job or two, but unregulated corporations kill people.
I suppose a great deal of my beef with this book is that the author never quite won me over to his hero, Schlichtmann.
Besides being an extreme telling of one side, the author tries to drum up some romance for Schlichtmann by bringing in his girlfriend and another girl trying to win his affection.
This book was already too long and detailed without side-stories that don't go anywhere.
A Civil Action would make lousy fiction; it makes horrendously boring non-fiction.
This is the true story of a nine year legal battle involving flamboyant, obsessed and ambitious lawyer, Jan Schlictmann, and two large corporations accused of exposing a cluster of mostly children to water contaminated by industrial pollution.
Fast forward to the late 80's and early 90's when Schlictman and his crew try to find a link between very sick and dying people and the dumping of toxic waste which entered the ground water and well system of the town.
The amount of money, paper documentation, manpower and people hired as expert witnesses are mind boggling!
Enter lawyer Jan Schlichtmann who accepts the case of eight families.
The lawyer, however, is living large, buying a Porsche, expensive suits, and booking expensive hotel conference rooms and catered meals to conduct negotiations with opposing council, all of which are billed as expenses to be deducted from any future settlement the victims might receive.
I wound up hating the lawyers.
Residents keep suffering and the lawyers play ridiculous games, hiding information, arguing over points of legal minutiae.
In the end, the companies are not held responsible and the plaintiffs, who've suffered horrible losses, get $300,000 per family, a pittance considering their medical expenses.
This book is a tremendous read.
What impressed me the most wasn't the author's development of Schlichtmann's character (both his magnetism and profound agony come right off the page, occasionally at the same time) but his devotion to documenting the case as it happened over the course of many years.
It must have been quite a labor considering the scope and duration of the case.
Thought Harr did a fine job being fair and unbiased in his representation of both sides although his 'loyalty' (and i use the term loosely) lay firmly with Schlichtmann.
This was a fast, entertaining/enraging read, until the last 100 pages, when it turned into a guide on how not to litigate.
The reader comes away thinking two things: 1.
corporations are evil and will stop at nothing to make a profit, even if it means murdering hundreds or thousands of little children.
2. The lawyer for the victims is a very, very stupid man.
He blew every chance, didn't follow up on any evidence, didn't act promptly, didn't file the appropriate motins, didn't realize the significance of events as they happened, and so on, and so forth, and so what.
a modern american classic of court trialwhy is it so classical and pop? i think it's the embodiment of the theme of main vocals and the universal value of the US of Ajust like the lone star it represents TEXAS
A really compelling read. I learned a lot about civil law and class action lawsuits.
This was a remarkable book that was nothing short of a page turner.
It involves a young lawyer taking on the case of families in a leukemia cluster in Woburn MA.
The efforts he went to to try to prove two major companies responsible are amazing in themselves and in how they are portrayed by Harr.
This book is best read if you do not know the outcome of the case as it reads like a high power crime novel when in fact it is a true story.
One of the best books I have read this year.
The prosecuting lawyer then pins blame on the contaminated water as the cause of leukemia and other diseases that appeared in the East Woburn population in higher frequencies than normal, but so many pages are devoted to the question of 'how did the water get polluted?' that the sick children end up as an afterthought.I can understand why this was recommended reading in the high school Business Law class, however, as the author frequently emphasizes how much of a toll this case took on the prosecuting law firm, as their lawyer took on those representing big businesses with deep pockets who can afford to hire bulldogs to make little guys like the prosecutors go away.
One of my best nonfiction reads, this book told of a real life courtroom drama pitting one aspiring lawyer against a coterie of company lawyers.
I cannot fully describe the book’s impact on me at the time I read it.
I just remember that it made me both angry and hopeful.
Angry about the extent to which powerful people will do everything to get around environmental laws, hopeful that there are decent people who will dedicate their lives to pursue environmental justice at all cost.Perhaps you have seen the movie starring John Travolta?
This is the story of a "civil action"--that is a law suit, a "tort" where a corporation was sued for dumping toxic wastes purportedly causing cancer among the residents of Woburn Massachusetts.
But at least Harr didn't go entirely Erin Brokovich, but did present the reasons the defendants could argue the science behind the allegations was, shall we say, not necessarily solid.
And so meticulous was Harr in explaining the entire process of a law suit from beginning to end, this was required reading in my One-L Civil Procedure class in law school.
It made a rather fascinating introduction into the law.
Outstanding work! 500 pages read like one. Could not put it down!
Unfortunately, while Harr’s writing style may make for easy reading, his message in A Civil Action is ultimately harmful as it seemingly discourages average people from getting involved with environmental struggles.
While this may sound like a victory, Harr ends A Civil Action on a sad note, leaving Beatrice Foods and W.R. Grace relatively underwhelmed by paying what is for them a relatively inexpensive settlement fee and Schlichtmann going into bankruptcy and shutting down his law practice after spending too much on the case.
What’s missing is any consideration for how demand for these corporation’s products by normal citizens drives corporations like Beatrice Foods and W.R. Grace to take environmentally harmful actions in the first place.
More like A Civil Fiction. This is so overdramatic but impossible to let go of at the same time, so I really can't fault it.
This book tells the true story of one of the most significant environmental legal cases in US history: Anderson v.
Civil lawyer Jan Schlichtmann takes the case against the powerful companies suspected of dumping toxic chemicals.
I taught this in my course on rhetoric and the law.
They were looking for the standard Hollywood plot where the little guy overcomes the big guy and right overcomes might.
It's pretty disturbing, too, how this case ruins Schlichtmann's life.
Maybe I made the right choice not going to law school after all.
The choice book that i am reading is titled, "A Civil Action" which is by the author, Jonathan Harr.
This book is about a mystery case of the sickness that is going around infecting people in Woburn.
The sickness case was revealed as Leukemia, which is Cancer, and some people are very concerned about this case.
Some people think that the cause of the sickness is caused by the water from the wells in Woburn.
so, the people of Woburn decided to make a case out of this situation, and they go to a very famous lawyer, Jan Schlichtmann, to help out with the problem

A depressing story of injustice and lies and liars.
I want to be a lawyer, and I want to be a good lawyer, and I want the best for my clients if/when I may have clients, but I justice to be served.
This book had me thrilled until the very end when time after time justice and a sense of right was ignored.
I wish the outcome were better, I wish the system caught the errors and corrected them, I believe it's a good system, but I was pretty depressed after finishing this tale.
Well-paced and compelling for a non-fiction account of a mass tort action. I really felt for the unpolished young plaintiffs' attorney and enjoyed reading about his rough practice-by-instinct, which is so different from the many layers of dilution that go into a junior lawyer's practice at a big firm. Given the unstoppable trajectory of the storytelling and the protagonist's huge, passionate efforts, I found the ending disappointing and lacking in denouement. Still a very good read.
This was a great read. True story of a lawsuit against two companies charged with polluting the local water supply in a Boston suburb which led to several children dying of leukemia. The author was behind the scenes with the lawyers during the entire trial and aftermath which provides a very very detailed view of the entire case. It was very engrossing and engaging. I couldn't put it down.
Interesting if you can stand all the politics and environmental law stuff... I don't mean to sound ignorant but I found it rather boring. Maybe because I don't really know a lot about lawsuits or the law in general? I liked the complex characters and detailed writing, and it's a good book to pass the time with.
