https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545936.Magnificent_Obsession
But to accomplish this, Merrick must learn Hudson’s secret and in doing so he will embark upon a MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION.He emulates Hudson so closely that he transcends his shallow man/boy lifestyle and becomes prominent in the same field as Hudson.
Merrick willfully does good deeds without expectation swearing his charges to secrecy and refuses payment of any kind because “his gift is all used up.” Though MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION is a beautiful love story, it is a wonderful Christian allegory that doesn’t preach Douglas’s philosophy.
I highly recommend readers to discover Helen Hudson and Robert Merrick and others that were closed to the late Dr. Hudson.
This book didn't rise nearly to the heights of The Robe.
Sometimes it reads like a romance noveland other times like a religious novel, but a very apologetic one.
Heseems almost ashamed of proclaiming any sort of religious belief.
In fact, I don'tknow if he ever refers to Christ by name, rather than calling him the "Galilean" and calling God the "Major Personality".
It is sad after thepower of The Robe.
It seemed as if the whole thing was a tract to convince peopleto be more compassionate while tip-toeing around Christ and His power and divinity.
The sentence structure all over the place and Tourette’s-like at times so I can see why other reviewers took issue with it even though it worked for me.
Indeed, for a “light” read it can be a bit hard to muddle through.Despite having been written over 80 years ago, this story has a new age bent that feels modern.
Sometimes it was hard to believe it was written so long ago.
Doubtless this is a reflection of the time period but it’s a little jarring when someone pops into conversation the fact her husband punched her in the stomach the previous night.
I had a really hard time getting into this book so it took me a while to finish it, but once I got started I really enjoyed it.
I definitely needed to read an inspiring book lately and this one was a perfect fit.
I finished it a couple days before fast sunday and then that weekend was studying the topic of fasting, I read the article in the April 09 Ensign by Shayne M.
I've only read one other book by Douglas (The Robe), but I will definitely be looking into what else he has written.
Boy, what strange book... I can't begin to describe the strangeness in the story. I enjoyed The Robe enormously, but this book is weird. I made an effort and read more than half, but finally gave up. I skipped lots of pages, though.
I have read this book at least twice. I think it is a young adult book. But the story is so good, well written, and inspiring. It's just fun to read like watching your favorite movie, it just makes you feel good. I have my own copy if any of my friends want to borrow it.
Lloyd Cassel Douglas, 1877-1951, was a minister before he was an author. MAGNIFICENT OBSESSION, was his first book written and published after he retired from the pulpit around 1928. How appropriate then that this books main subject centers around his old boss, the Galilean from Nazareth. His novels are of a didactic tone purposed for developing strong moral character. His writing is of the very formal literary style of the day, and tilt toward the upper class vernacular of that era. This is a
Bobby’s father, Clif, had died when he was young, and his self absorbed mother, Maxine, abandoned him to go live in Europe, leaving him to live with his grandfather Nic. His neighbor was a prominent brain surgeon from Detroit, Dr. Wayne Hudson, who had recently married in hopes of helping his daughter, and moved his family to his newly constructed retreat, Flintridge, across the lake from Windymere.
Then the unfortunate chain of events that spurred Bobby Merrick to reevaluate his life, to commit his life to doing good for others, happened.
Many people probably would not get past the first chapter of this book because the dialogue is so very outdated.
I believe the book was written in the early 20th century.
I doubt I could bribe anyone born in this millenium to stick with it.
But I have gone back and read it at least half a dozen times, if that means anything to anyone.
I simply love the theme of the book, and the way the ideals that it puts forth are woven into the life of a young, rich loafer who develops into a master brain surgeon.
I highly recommend it.
I only took it because I liked the way it looked, and I’m glad in this case that I “judged the book by its cover.” It’s the story of a playboy college millionaire essentially given a second chance at life after a near death experience- and how he applies a pay it forward principle to make his life more meaningful.
I also enjoyed reading about people who ride steam ships to Europe (it was written in 1929), and take month long sabbaticals in Italy.
It was definitely a different time, but the moral of the story is still pertinent today.
Read it if you can find it.
Douglas, author of “The Robe”, this is an interesting tale of the impact that serving others can have on an individual’s search for purpose and significance.
When he gains access to Dr. Hudson’s personal journals he learns that there is more to life than personal gratification and pleasure, and sets about to redeem his squandered life.I did enjoy this inspirational story although I felt as if Merrick’s inspiration came from the model of Jesus and the Gospel, and yet that was never made clear.
The terms that the author chose were quite ambiguous and that was disappointing.
The story and literature are good and interesting. But that's not worth 5 stars. This is among the most impactful books I've ever read or ever will read. I think about it nearly every day and strive to apply the lesson it taught. People have asked me to share the lesson with them, but I won't. Wisdom is earned, never given. So I give them the book and invite them to discover it themselves. Read in Oakton, VA. Recommended by Amanda Maughan
here are some jumbled thoughts...- At first my eyebrows shot up at the scene where Randolf takes the page out of the bible and forms an entire way of living around this one piece of scripture (...
in fact it was the style at that time even among Christians to make sure that everything had a scientific explanation...
in thinking about the era in which Douglas lived, and given his background - I really think that this was an attempt to reach the unchurched in a way that they could relate to...
In fact, the scripture that this book is based upon (Matthew 6:1-4) promises a reward...
This is a theme often popular at Christmas by giving to the needy without expecting anything in return except the warm feelings in the heart.
In this book, the young, wild Merrick finds powerful reason to reform his life and pursue a life of productivity as a brain surgeon as well as greatly strengthen his personality by giving, serving, helping those he notices who have a particular need.
Whether this can be applied in real life, outside of fiction is for the reader to discover as he pursues his own paths through life.
It started a little slowly, but once I got into it I really enjoyed it.
It has a great message, a likable (if sometimes exasperating) main character, and a cute little love story.
I thought that it was kind of weird how abruptly the love story suddenly resolved itself, but I like happy endings so I guess I am okay with it.
I really enjoyed the writing style.
It was very clever and funny, and full of sentences like, "He would today atone for all his failures to be what she wanted him to be by going cheerfully into an affair which, he suspected, would establish his utter asshood as a fact beyond controversy in the opinion of any sensible person present." Love it.
Some call this book inspirational others call it a romance.
Though the romance is certainly not heavy.
The author pushes some interesting ideas though the telling of a story.
Most comments talk about the idea of "I've already used it all up" but I found the idea of never allowing a person to break off from you mad interesting.
Wish I had someone to talk to about this idea.
I also really enjoyed the style of writing and found myself often rereading many phrases just to make sure I understood what was being said.
Read ages ago, so I'm going by a rusty memory.
However, I do remember that I wanted to tell the WORLD about it, but one mustn't do that if one wishes to do that.
Even as a teen, I understood the concept, and it's loss should I decide to bring it to the mundane by sharing it with ...
Oh, did I forget to mention, you can share the book just fine.
It's the magnificent obsession itself that needs to live in the privacy of one's own soul.It still informs some of my more pure actions today to a degree, though not the same as years ago when I read it.
This was one of the first novels I ever read, and I still love the stuffy, cigarette-smoke style of writing, which I associate with old office equipment and rotary phones and the smell of darkening, dog-eared pages. As with Rebecca and Lost Horizon, the reading experience is greatly enhanced by the feel and smell of a worn-out, ex-library first edition, which can sometimes be picked up at a library book sale or Salvation Army store.
This book is only "Christian" in that it does mention Jesus regularly. However, the portrayal of Jesus--his nature and purpose--is skewed from that of Savior to pragmatic, scientific, pick-yourself-up-by-your-bootstraps leader. Although the plot is clever, my distaste for the theology made it virtually impossible to enjoy. I did not finish. Sorry, Rev. Douglas, I know your intentions were good--but you landed wide of the mark.
One of my favorites all-time! Just DON'T see the movie. You would think with Rock Hudson and Jane Weyman it would be pretty good. Unfortunately, they only kept the romance (which they still changed) and left out the best part of the book - the message. The message I got from the book is that anything you do for others comes back to you multiplied. I read it the first time in junior high and it has had a lasting impact!
Everyone in my ward book club liked this one for the Christian message. I found the Good Samaritan rhetoric too overt and materialistic--the message in part was that if you help other people, God will magnify your talents to make you wildly successful in your vocation. But I have to admit that I really liked the romance. Tip: the movie (with Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson) has a completely different plot, and I found it a bit unwatchable.
I enjoyed the movie; didn't enjoy the book. The narrative didn't flow for me. I found myself reading some sentences two or three times before I had the meaning. The explanation of the "secret", while repeated a number of times seemed convoluted and, I believe, distorted the messages of the New Testament into some sort of new age philosophy.
Wow! This book drove me nuts! There were two subplots-one romantic and one that wasn't. The romance was all right but what really drew me in was the mystery of the other plot, which didn't help because it never solved the mystique around it. Definitely something I want to have a book discussion on.
So, a brilliant, well-loved surgeon dies and a total loss of a human survives, creating tremendous resentment toward Merrick.
Merrick then becomes aware of this predicament and determines to right this wrong by attempting to become Dr. Hudson’s replacement.Today the novel will probably be viewed as naïve in content and theme, but I think the idea has legs.
And doing good should make most people feel good, liberating them for better things, whatever they may be.I was able to obtain an old, old copy of the book (1929), well-read by many others, pages foxed but still perfectly readable.
I first became acquainted with this story in my Rock Hudson phase.
Jane Wyman was a little too old for him but it added validity to the relationship she had with Joyce and her first husband.
Joyce was much less of a wannabe movie star, Tom existed for much more than legalities, and Nancy's devotion to the family made more sense.
I never could quite believe she loved her first husband and that is crucial to the whole story.
Merrick was a little bit more human than in the movie and that I enjoyed.
The premise was interesting - a beloved doctor finds that by spending his life doing secret acts of service and kindness, he is enlarging his personality.
Douglas suggests religion should actually be considered science - an experience to be tested over and over, and personal.
By the end, the book had changed entirely to love story, losing the main idea completely.
I really wanted to love this book, since it was my dad's favorite, but I didn't.
I think the idea of religion and intellect and passing personality through service would have really appealed to my dad.
Great book.
I really like the philosophical aspect of the book.
Read it if you want to know what I mean :)Stylistically, I didn't like the author's overuse of adverbs.
For example on pages 98 and 99, there are 15 and 10 adverbs, respectively.
That is a bit too much for me.I did like it when the author pushed the vocabulary a bit.
For example, "the breakfast room of her over-Louised apartment." I wish I had focused on it better as I read it, but that was my fault.
Nothing really objectionable, so if you want your teenager to read it, that should be okay.

This book took me forever to read, and I only stuck with it because I was hoping to find something of the film I love so much.
But I came away so angry, perhaps because of recent circumstances, because this whole book encourages the idea that a man should continue to pursue a woman once she's made it clear that she wants nothing to do with him, simply because the woman might not be showing her true feelings.
While the movie has this to a degree, it was very toned down compared to the book, and I honestly can't say I'm glad I read this.
This one would be considered a classic (1929) but I sure enjoyed reading it. The story is about a rich playboy whose life is saved while a well known surgeon's life is lost. He feels somewhat responsible because the item that saved his life could have saved the doctor's. After much trials he is given the diary of the doctor which is written in code. After figuring out the code his life is changed because of the doctor's theory.
This was basically a romantic story. Kind of boring and predictable. He did nothing to develop the religious or spiritual aspect of the main character even though the story started with him learning about Jesus. The main plot was really centered on the romance. Nothing like The Robe by the same author.
