https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672737.Darkwater
W.E.B Dubois is best known for Souls of Black Folk,but was a prolific writer and public critic for the duration of his life.
This collection of essays, poems and stories was published in 1920 and included items that had been published elsewhere.They show Dubois passion for justice and his anger at the ongoing degradation being experienced by black people due to Jim Crow.
They also show that Dubois was a forerunner of things such as civil rights, liberation theology and critical race theory.
My brief summary does no justice to the creative way in which Dubois highlights the hypocrisy of racism in his day and ours.
This is a little bit of a departure from his other books. This is a collection of essays mixed in with a few short stories and poems. His tone has shifted as well. It is much darker and he has more of negative view on the world. I have to say that my favorite story was the "Black Jesus" one.
Du Bois was ahead of his time. These essays talk about issues that are still current.
There is a long, brilliant literary bridge from Frederick Douglass to Ta-Nehisi Coates of analyses of race in America.
Between the two are many writers and works that are essential to any useful understanding of 21st century America.
But sticking with non-fiction, W.
But so is his autobiography and so is Darkwater, a book of mostly essays with some poetic interludes between the essays and an allegoric short story at the collection’s end.
And if the poetical interludes between the essays are a bit dated and airy, the prose of the essays is always direct and compelling.
Heavy read... but definitely one I'll be revisiting.
Lyrical and quite moving at points.
Bet yall didn't know Dubois wrote a novel...check it out it is quite good...
The word "voices" from the subtitle feels appropriate.
Essays, poetry, stories: his book is more experimental and fragmented than much of Du Bois's write before or after.
Published in 1920, the Great War hangs heavy over every page.
Some sections—the "Credo", "the Souls of White Folk", and "The Servant in the House"—bowled me over with their beauty and lyricism.
Many of the poems and stories between the essays, however, feel less essential and far too meandering.
Du Bois is foundational and the book, as a whole, will yield some beautiful excerpts for teaching; but feels too uneven to be considered indivisible.
beautiful and elegaic
The essays in this are amazing must reads. The poetry and stories, not so much.
writing by a man of his time, and slightly beyond it
I think if you want to know more about how race is talked about on a civil rights level, this is THE book to start with.
At the time, working people had no voice but were fighting for it, while he tells that women 'had there husbands to speak for them' and blacks were generally ignored.This book goes well with all the Bertrand Russell I've been reading, because they both look at problems in their society a century ago that hasn’t changed much.
Read my review of this & other books at http://miscmss.blogspot.com/2017/02/b...
This is _such_ a stirring book, with deeply critical and moving essays interspersed with beautiful and poignant poetry about the black phenomenology, ending with a speculative fiction short story about a comet and an aftermath of ends and new beginnings. The passion and fiery intelligence of DuBois is on clear display here, and it is definitely one of the most potent and important books i've read this year.
I'm sure this is a classic--intriguing essays, sketches, and poems--and I wouldn't have made it through in print. However, were it not for Dion Graham and Bahni Turpin, I wouldn't have made it through the audio either! In emphasizing the book's importance, several narrators chose stilted reading styles that were off-putting and completely ignored the cadence of the text. Dark essays for those with more intellectual and political taste and interest than I have.
This is definately worth reading. Even in DuBois' desperation and disappointment with things, his genius shines through. Very few people ever mention this book. They point instead to Souls of Black Folk, The Philadelphia Negro, or Reconstruction. This one is definitely worth including in our discussions about what made DuBois equally brilliant and sad.
Filled with mysticism and harsh reality, this compilation of essays and poems provides amazProvides amazing insight into the political, social, and cultural world of circa 1910 America and the world. I was fascinated by the similarities between Due Bois' observations on his times and my views of contemporary America. The more things change the more they remain the same.
It's strange to rate a book like this. It wasn't fun to read, but a lot of it was still shockingly relevant. The last story was incredibly powerful. There was a glimpse of redemption before it all came crashing back.
His analyses and insights are just as valid today as they were when he first wrote then. That stands as a testament to how far the USA still has yet to go. We have not come as far as many insist.
We read this for our Second Life book club. Really beautiful combination, part prose, part social discourse.
I don't know, I might even like this better than Souls of Black Folk. Really powerful connections between capitalism, racism, and colonialism.
Well Done!
