https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394469.Suttree
You came from a good family...well most of the family tree seems pretty solid."Mr. Suttree in what year did your greatuncle Jeffrey pass away?It was in 1884.Did he die by natural causes?No sir.And what were the circumstances surrounding his death.He was taking part in a public function when the platform gave way.Our information is that he was hanged for a homicide.Yessir."Every family has a few hiccups.You don't like your family much.
You can't expect to live a long and healthy life surrounding yourself with people like this.Are you sad Suttree?You hook up with this pretty filly from Chicago.
like faulkner, except good...
This was my first foray into McCarthy, and what a foray it was. The prose hit me with a whallop--so dense and driving, a slow-moving ineluctable train of words that carries the reader to dark and squalid and even funny places as we follow Cornelius Suttree, a privileged son who's given it all up to live as an outcast among outcasts. This is vintage early McCarthy--before All the Pretty Horses made him more popular and, dare I say it?, somewhat less interesting.
I am helpless to talk about this book.
There are a lot of words that I did not understand.
Suttree by Cormac is a book that deserves, much like some of Malick's films.
The pen of the big Mac is like a brush taking its time on the canvas, where a sentence would suffice to describe a flight of birds making crates.
Here we are far from Kerouac and its small ballads on the road.
Here is lost America.
Cormac is a genius.
Suttree is saturated with this outlook, this philosophy, though it remains unspoken, instead being simply shown, in a style itself all detail and turbid flow.
In fact, the style itself is so integral to the book’s texture and meaning, and the structure of it all so structureless (being modeled on riverflow as it is, words jostled by the very meaning they embody), that it reads almost as an experimental novel, by which I mean only that it is one extended exercise in verbal excessiveness that pushes the form’s limits, and that there’s something simply audacious about it, something almost Fuck off and let me write what the fuck I want about it.
This is my favorite Cormac McCarthy novel so far.
It’s a horrifying and funny ramble of the guy’s life.
I’m not so moved.There is really not much of a story.
Or, your one of those people that enjoy complaining about the trash and debris in your travels.Aside from a character based on the Goat Man, Charles "Ches" McCartney, (1901?–1998), it did not especially remind me of home.
Maybe, I should have waited for a hell on earth story.
I’m already reading two books based in hell, well I suspect one’s purgatory.
So, I included a link.http://www.nytimes.com/books/98/05/17...
Suttree: Cormac McCarthy's Conclusion to a Southern QuartetSuttree was published February 1, 1979. First EditionOn the dust jacket Cormac McCarthy appears a young man. McCarthy's first novel, The Orchard Keeper was published in 1965. Sources clearly indicate that Suttree was already a work in progress. Jerome Charyn reviewed Suttree for the New York Times and said that McCarthy actually wrote Suttree over a thirty year span. I wouldn't argue. It's just that good. It's just that perfect.Cornelius
Suttree: Cormac McCarthy's Conclusion to a Southern QuartetSuttree was published February 1, 1979.
Sources clearly indicate that Suttree was already a work in progress.
It's just that perfect.Cornelius Suttree is the son of a wealthy and privileged family.
A careful reading indicates that Suttree looks back on his past life in Knoxville, having moved on.
However, Suttree is a novel that becomes a seamless read, endlessly engrossing, and completely fascinating.Knoxville and the river become as significant characters as the men and women who live in town and on the river.
McCarthy's brings life on the river alive.
Cormac McCarthy at his best--..writing with the throttle wide open--is still the closest thing to heroin you can buy in a bookstore. --Hal CrowtherA Smoky Mountain High: Trudging through Smokies with Loquacious, Abstruse McCarthyHaled by cognoscenti, this early Cormac McCarthy tale follows the travails of Cornelius Suttree, a wayward, educated and privileged itinerant, as he wanders through the backwoods and over the rivers and streams of the Smoky Mountains, his acquaintances with the hillbill
I wish I could be intelligent enough to understand, much less comprehend, all this on a quick read.Cabalistic, pleonastic and recondite issues aside ;-), this simply was not nearly as memorable or enjoyable as Blood Meridian, All the Pretty Horses and No Country for Old Men.*Modified Benjamin Disraeli's 1878 pan of Gladstone.
It is amazing how McCarthy can find the lyrical beauty in an absurd gout of hallelucinationatory crazy.
Absolutely one of my favorite novels of all time (nearly stripped McCarthy's Blood Meridian of its bloody title).
Reads like Steinbeck wrote a play based on a David Lynch film about a nightmare child of Fellini and Faulkner that is now worshiped as scripture by pimps, prostitutes, grifters, fishmongers and of course fishermen.
At times Suttree hits me like a complicated musical chorus, a surreal painting, and a ballet of misfits and grotesques, all chopped up and swirling in a dirty river's refuse.
”Cormac McCarthy’s unique and distinctive voice in American literature is in rare form in his 1979 Southern Gothic novel about a young man who steps away from a comfortable life with an affluent family to live on the Knoxville riverfront within a populace of drunks and ne’er do wells.
Reminiscent of Steinbeck, Faulkner, James Joyce, and Robert Penn Warren but with a fantastic undercurrent like Ray Bradbury; McCarthy’s usually stoic prose is here complex and at times mystical.
Mccarthy assembles this incredible rogues gallery of outcasts and we just sort of follow them around, watching them drink, fight, fuck, and in general just shyst their way through life.
And yet we always return to Cornelius Suttree, an odd and supremely lonely man, as he stumbles through life, moving between these almost Huckleberry Finnesque moments of humor and surprising tenderness, and these really gothic moments of isolation and loss.Unlike say Blood Meridian or All the Pretty Horses, I found that this took a few days to really work its way into my head.
No one in the world can write like McCarthy.
The power of his sentences comes not from ease and lightness and polish - they are hard and angular like a sculpted figure whittled laboriously from a gnarled hunk of wood, rendered the more striking for the humble matter from which it was hewn.
Like all McCarthy's novels, Suttree is an attempt to make sense of the anguish and absurdity of a life lived within the crucible of an indifferent universe, where redemption is nonexistent and slow entropic decay is the natural order of things.
Though many pages might be spent on arguably mundane details of fishing, socializing, or even decorating basement rentals (albeit, in beautiful prose), life-changing events such as the deaths of lovers, the deterioration of relationships, and the dire consequences of drunken brawls sometimes appear within the space of one or two paragraphs.
Characters are killed and forgotten in a single sentence, which only adds to the narrative, insofar as Suttree, at heart, is a man who has given up.
Love, death, and squalor make no impression on Suttree, and he becomes a sort of infinitely malleable and sadly detached figure.
Coffeecolored and seething, the river waits, always in the background, vying for billing as protagonist.He could hear the river talking softly beneath him, heavy old river with wrinkled face.The book is filled with adventures in drunken debauchery and foiled get-rich-quick schemes.
It's a good one!Did you ever know anybody to be so bad about luck?Suttree said he had.
He said that things would get better.The old man shook his head doubtfully, paying the band of his cap through his fingers.
I'm satisfied they cain't get no worse, he said.But there are no absolutes in human misery and things can always get worse, only Suttree didn't say so.See?
Sono forse un mostro, ci sono dei mostri dentro di me?”Sul silenzioso fiume Tennessee, Suttree è un naufrago che diserta la vita, un profugo in fuga dalla quiete di una esistenza programmata, che in un lungo viaggio dietro agli occhi bendati della notte oltrepassa il tempo per unirsi definitivamente a quelli che sono stati, agli amici diseredati e disperati, che vivono dell'ebbrezza e del tuono.
Ossessionato dalla morte del gemello e orfano di un figlio, Suttree lascia la casa galleggiante e si rimette in viaggio, disilluso superstite che non si può più arrendere.
And the sexual presence in Suttree is more evident and put to interesting and grotesque uses, whereas Blood Meridian, in its very masculine and muscular environment, seems to not include sex much, except in hints of rape and violence, violence which is BM's central concern and core.And of course, Cornelius Suttree, perhaps among the most characterized personage in McCarthy's universe, alongside Judge Holden.
Yet love him.If McCarthy had a single masterpiece, it would possibly be Blood Meridian.
But as Suttree proves, McCarthy has another masterpiece - similar yet very different at the same time.The question may be: are you a Suttree or Blood Meridian person when it comes to McCarthy?
The difference between them and Suttree is that he was born into a privileged family and has chosen this life.
McCarthy does that very well in this book: even as you're laughing, you can see the tragedy of these lives.Some reviewers see traces here of Huckleberry Finn and Steinbeck's cast of characters in "Cannery Row" and "Tortilla Flats".
I saw that too, but can also see that Suttree contains traces of fictional characters who came later, namely Cool Hand Luke and Sully from the pages of Richard Russo's "Nobody's Fool." The men who never fit in, but just want to live their own version of a good life.
I've been reading a lot of McCarthy lately, and this one is different.
Very dense.I really think this was the book where McCarthy transitioned from a very good writer to a great one.
Not just because this was the last of his Appalachia books, you can also see where the writing changes to the signature style that sets him apart from other writers.
It's pure McCarthy in that unique word usage is a signature of his.Suttree was a very satisfying book; one that makes you ready to move straight to its follow-up, Blood Meridian, except this one is not violent at all (by McCarthy's standard).
And Suttree and Harrogate are two of the most memorable characters in fiction.The only quibble I have is that McCarthy likes to show off his extensive vocabulary.
I had a pretty good education and have read thousands of books, so I think my vocabulary is better than average, but there were still quite a few words that I had never seen before, never mind knew what they meant.
For example, in the space of two sentences, he uses the following words: fustic, morling and gimpen.
I don't really have much else to say, except that everyone who likes fine writing should read this book.Thanks Cody.
Things I learned from this book:1)"But there are no absolutes in human misery and things can always get worse."2)If you fuck every pumpkin in a pumpkin field you're liable to go to the county workhouse. I don't reckon there is one of them here, so I also reckon it's just about ok to fuck all them pumpkins.
sapiens—more often than not White, almost exclusively male—who vehemently contend that Blood Meridian is not only Cormac McCarthy’s greatest book, but the greatest novel of all time.
As great as Meridian is, it pales to this White Male by several hectares to McCarthy’s true masterpiece, Suttree.
You may even, like me, love him in some not small way for the incorruptibility of his soul.I first came to McCarthy 22-years ago when he became assigned reading for friends in college.
Suttree is an unusual book by McCarthy, for it lacks the genre conventions he sometimes employs and subverts.
Comic misadventures and schemes a lá Twain occur, passages of beat gutter poetry, stark imagery and characters out of medieval allegory or the Old Testament (Witches, fools, and madmen); makes for a strange but beautifully written book.
In another unusual turn this book leave you with a faint lingering of hope as opposed to the nihilistic dread of Blood Meridian.
This book and Blood Meridian, despite their differences, form the twin poles of McCarthy’s majesty as an artist.
Difficile la lingua (ad essere pignoli serve il vocabolario anche quando lo si legge in traduzione), difficile l'impatto con un racconto che non concede sconti, non conosce la retorica, non fornisce giustificazioni o attenuanti alle azioni, non dà alcuno spazio all'ipocrisia o a vittimismi, è il rapporto nudo e crudo di un modo di vivere, lucidamente scelto, che conduce ad una chiara definizione dell'io del protagonista, bello o brutto che sia. Scrittore adulto, questo McCarthy...
It almost seems insulting to call this a work of art, because that is so cliche and nothing about this book is cliche.
But it IS a work of art.
Not an easy book to read.
I will most definitely read it again at some time.
This book is not for the faint of heart, it is downright disgusting at times.
But somehow McCarthy gets away with disgusting scenes by using gorgeous poetic language that drives you to keep reading.
All hail McCarthy!Oh, and there is a character named "Trippin Through The Dew." 'Nuff said.
So that, and this is probably the nearest I've come across a subjective valorisation of the experience of being in time, rather than any mimesis or spatialisation, it is compressed, condensed, displaced, segues a few months from one sentence to the next, and yet like a dream with all its weird workings nevertheless does set a limit around things so that at the end you think that yes you have been through some of Suttree's life.And it is very funny too!
An infinite sadness, wrapped among two covers, manifesting via mental trips taken, jokes told and lived, hopes unfulfilled, loves lost, years wasted, money hunted, people hurt.
And it is so fitting for “Suttree” which contains multitude of angles that you can read it from.As a metaphor for anybody’s struggles with the place in the world.As someone’s bitter journey through hard knock life.As a gnostic experience.As a collection of skilfully told anecdotes.As a document of castaway tribulations.As a prose as close to poetry as possible.Now enter yours.
It's pretty much a frontier town, just without the frontier.As you can see, Suttree is an ambitious novel, and not just because it's McCarthy's longest (although its 471 pages aren't that long).
Watching Suttree himself rise above the squalor around him by virtue of sheer cussedness of spirit is uplifting in a peculiar way.Like most McCarthy novels, there's not a word out of place here.
But if you're up for that, you'll find Suttree is a rich, beautifully written, and funny novel.
Maybe not the place to start with McCarthy, but definitely a fine next step if you've read his more accessible novels and are hungry for more.
Aqui tudo é negro, triste, sujo,...Suttree não é um romance para quem gosta de "perceber" tudo.
Há passagens, de sonho ou alucinação, em que não entendi muito bem o que estava a acontecer (ou preferi não entender?)Suttree não é um romance para quem gosta de finais "felizes".
Aqui não há finais e quando os há não são felizes.No entanto, não posso dizer que seja um romance deprimente.
”Suttree”, originalmente editado em 1979, é o sétimo romance que li do norte-americano Cormac McCarthy (n.
1933), um dos meus escritores preferidos – que já não publica um livro desde 2006.Estamos em Knoxville, Tennessee, no início dos anos 1950 - Cornelius Suttree – Sut - abandonou uma vida familiar estável para começar a viver sozinho numa casa flutuante na margem do rio Tennessee, nas “margens” da sociedade, sobrevivendo da venda dos peixes que apanha.
63) Não é o melhor livro do Cormac McCarthy mas é um romance imperdível.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
lifetime.I started skipping because I wanted story, but the parts I was skipping- the lengthy descriptions and apparently poetic prose were clearly what I was supposed to be reading this for- that is, no story, just sprawling, rambling description that hits on those same tired "revelations" of so many "wise" authors.
Duh: if anyone who wanted to jump back up their mum could, everyone would be in favour.Some people are thankful to be here at all, you know- doesn't make them idiots.
Oh mother, why dain't you done told me one day everyone I know will be dead.
