https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95708.The_Now_Habit
This book looks like it could help.But before I found it, I was checking out this one, The Thief of Time: Philosophical Essays on Procrastination and now I don't know which one to get.
I'll have to think about it and hopefully decide before next week's book order goes in.
Maybe I should look for more books on the subject, see if any of them can help me make up my mind.That's something to think on.
I'm going to make a cup of coffee.Update I did buy several books on procrastination for the shop, but couldn't make up my mind which to take home to read.
I'm such a doofus" moments.****book +36 hours-completed a draft of an article I've been avoiding since November-emailed someone I've been dodging for ten days-joined a gym and went once (this is a different kettle of fish from joining a gym and going a sustained 4+ times a week; please check back)-Completed a work review I have put off since December-completed a task due last Novemberupdate 21 Sep 2015this book didn't make my life perfect, but it really did change me for the better.I changed my jobI allow myself to have things that make me happyI moved to my dream condo (I have a pool!
Procrastination has become quite severe over the past three years to the point that I am tired much of the time and needing more and more rest despite not really increasing my productivity.
The book takes the reader through a wide variety of strategies, examples and explanations that will be helpful to anybody that procrastinates from an occasional basis to those that are heavily oppressed by this very difficult human problem.
My one small issue with the book is that all of his case studies tended to be those that work in business or sales and it would have been helpful to have a wider variety of occupations and professions looked at.
Quite cool.
After that, compose an exhaustive list of all the tasks that you need to complete in order to complete the project, organize them by chronology, and write them backwards, starting with your finished product and working your way back to your current situation.
By breaking the project into small chunks, you are increasing the probability that you are going to get started on each task, especially if you build a "winning streak"Fiore goes on to explain that we become most productive when we stick to a schedule of mandatory fun.
It's about working better and integrating play into your schedule because it recognizes the single most important element to procrastination - the reason we get bummed out and piddle around is the prospect that work is going to take away time from play.
So by putting play on your schedule first and building work around play, you flip the whole thing on its head.The only hesitation I had in giving this 5 stars is that the last couple of chapters delve into the sort of hippy zen breathing chanting mantra type stuff that I tend to loath in self help books.
One of the most practical books in the Psychology of Procrastination that I have read.
This book uses a combination of great tools like reverse psychology, introducing guilt-free play into one's schedule, meditation to stay centred and growing each day by cultivating the psychology of love rather than fear.
I am not usually a fan of positive psychologists that use the 'Ra Ra Ra' method of motivation;- I find it to be unscientific and usually unsustainable beyond the initial high that all that rara-ing creates.
Neil Fiore's book is based on a very deep understanding of human nature, psychology and positive reinforcement.
A great book that I highly recommend to create sustainable habits
Most books that claim to help you with procrastination boil down to: get organized, make a list, get off your butt and do your work.
If you wait until the last minute, if your work isn't perfect, you have a built-in excuse to not consider that a reflection on you--you would have done better if you had had more time).
But the keys are- don't write work on the schedule until you've done it- reward yourself with a little break or something every time you finish a good half hour- pepper the schedule with stuff to look forward to- do not work more than 5 hours a day or 20 hours a weekGreat stuff--has really helped me.
I'm glad I got to read this before the year ended. I think it will be very useful to incorporate these habits into my 2017 resolutions and goal settings, and hopefully taking each to full use as the year flows. I'm happy I read this to see where my pestiest habits are obvious to have time and room to correct them and start with a kick off of motivation, a burst anew!! :)
I do suffer from putting things off.
Not everything, just those things that, for some reason,hit me as complex and time consuming.
He goes even further in offering specific tools and techniques to get yourself out of those bad habits.
In doing that and giving myself 20-30 minute work spaces followed by a break to do something I want to do is the second tool I use most often.
There are many more tools provided, but those two made an immediate impact for me.It has made a change in just a few weeks in both my attitude and productivity.
I think had interesting things to say as to why we procrastinate, and how to get around it.
I think often I'm not honest about what I'm actually doing or how long that thing actually takes, and then the day just fritters away.
I'm going to try out a few of these habits and see how they do for me.However, I did try a simple habit last week of immediately doing something (dishes, putting away the shoes) as soon as I saw/thought about it, and it made me feel so much better!
It's a practical approach to identifying and understanding the habits of procrastination.Early in the book the author shattered one of my previously held myths.
Prior to reading this book, I didn't view procrastination as one of my major challenges- but much of this book resonated with me and I will take it as an opportunity for personal improvement.A quick note: in this audiobook there are a number of unexpected silent gaps for you to meditate along with the reader.
-- I'm not sure why the producer took this approach as it's unlikely you are listening to this audiobook at a convenient time or place to close your eyes and meditate for ten minutes.I will purchase this book in ebook format as well.
I need all the help I can get.
I have read the Chinese version. I think this book is good.
If you are just starting out with the program, I found that there is no such thing as guilt-free play.
And the most potent critic of this program is the fact that fear is always a better motivator than pleasure.
Fear narrows down our options while pleasure tries to amplify them.
While you can say "I choose to" rather than "I have to," as the book tells you to, you are really choosing because you have to, unless you can change your life goals and strategies every single day, which is not realistic.
Yes, I have read every productivity book in existence now, why do you ask?
xD While I liked the idea of the Unschedule, and understand the concepts involved, I felt the book was a little light on the do it, do it now mentality that I've found helpful out of most productivity books.
I also felt like the Power of Habit more actively helped me to understand what would work about forming new habits.
Anyway, good book, especially if you're constantly drowning in self-doubt and low self-esteem, and realize that system just isn't working for you.
Anyone faced with that "inner rebel" that rebukes your best plans, will find helpful concrete ideas here.
He also illuminated how we take things we want to do and turn them into chores via our self-talk.
Also the focus on starting instead of finishing.
I'm always telling myself, I have to finish *it* by Friday, by tomorrow, instead of just focusing on when will I start again...Obviously not for everyone but I think I'll want to reread it again.
This was a pretty good read.
A friend recommended it and as procrastination has been one of my banes for a long time, I requested it from the library.I noticed other reviewers saying it was predictable and rehashed things they'd read elsewhere or seemed like common sense--but I definitely needed to read this one.
Sometimes people tell you things over and over again but it never really clicks until the moment is right--and it simply never occurred to me that procrastination happens because it's an effective solution to stress and fear over work.
Ahh, self-help books from the 80s.
I scooped this book out of a box of discards at my brother-in-law's place, and flipped through it during a pre-dinner lull in conversation.
What at first seemed cheesy quickly became a remarkably practical read.
I brought it home and read it each subsequent day during my commute to work.Whether or not you're find yourself procrastinating, this book supplies some killer tips for being more efficient.
I would recommend it highly to:- people trying to juggle quasi-work related projects outside of regular-work hours- people who try to start projects, but end up staring at the screen after starting and deleting dozens of attempted opening lines- people who feel loads of self-imposed pressure to perform well, and thus delay starting projects
Probably the most useful book on breaking the procrastination habit that I have ever read.
Just by changing self-talk, I find I can break through resistance and get working on a project.
Re-framing the motivation for a task from "I have to" (someone else is making me do this) to "I choose to" (this whole thing is my decision) changes my feelings about a task.
It was also nice to find validation for a technique that I have always used: schedule in the fun and make the not-so-scintillating tasks fit in around it.
Resistance is futile!
Although my procrastination patterns have been entrenched so deeply that I even procrastinated reading this book (!), I had never had much insight into their underlying causes and mechanisms. The Now Habit has given me a valuable understanding of where they stem from, along with several simple, yet effective strategies to tackle them. If your modus operandi is "I'll do that later" and your to-do list is so full that just looking at it makes you cringe with horror, I strongly recommend reading this book - now!
Heeft nog lang geduurd voor ik dit uit had...:-)Maar serieuzer: dit vond ik een nuttig boek. Als aartsuitsteller snap ik iets meer van mezelf en de procrastinators om me heen. Ik las een ebook-versie maar ga een papieren versie kopen om nog vaak in terug te bladeren.
This is an insightful book about the underlying psychology of procrastination and it offers some useful practical advice about how to stop procrastinating. It's definitely worth reading for anyone who has struggled to complete (or even to start) an important task.
didn't finish....but not because of procrastination...no, I didn't finish because I enjoyed applying lessons learned and lost sight of finishing the book. Listening to this as an audiobook. I used it as a way to stay productive during the workday. Here is what I've learned so far: if you have to or should...you won't. Choose what you want to do...then you just might have a chance of getting it done.
this was written 28 yrs ago. I picked it up at a free book exchange . I can see why now.
I created a simple tracking tool with all the things I want to accomplish and it is the inspiration from this book that keeps me moving forward.
It's the understanding of those reasons and the useful tools that he provides that helps you to overcome and work toward goals left undone.
Not too many self-development books provide such easy to use techniques to help you improve in an area of your life, this one does.
One thing this book does not do is provide heavy examples with fairy tale endings that I find in many self-development books.
The concept that resonated with me the strongest was that the more we procrastinate on a project or task the more stress we feel, that our body feels about it, the more we feel overwhelmed and anxious.
All that is work that we're doing, but unproductive work and actually more stressful, harmful work than just diving in and starting the task.
It takes some looking in the mirror, but if you're willing to make changes, even just recognizing your actions, you'll benefit from this book.
This is a great book for hard-line chronic procrastinators like myself :) I've learned that by acknowledging the voice that screams "let's do something else" and just calming it down by saying something like: "OK I understand your urgent need to check Facebook right this moment and I've jotted it down on my to-do list to make sure it gets done at some point.
Now, can we relax and sit down to write a short introduction to that chapter?
Thank you.", I actually get more things done.
By allowing myself short guilt-free play every 30 minutes of focused work, my resistance goes way down, well unless something cute is on SpaceToon.
Get this book...like NOW!
You've got to be willing to put in the work to reshape the habits and this book provides practical tips for facing your procrastination.
I would suggest putting this in your brain after Organize Your Mind, Organize Your Life AND The Willpower Instinct.
The former will provide you a great deconstruction of the phases of the attention process.
The latter will reveal some stuff you're doing to get in your own way.Either way, don't expect overnight changes.
If you're thinking about the steps and techniques and then not doing them be encouraged.
That's your brain dipping a toe into the change process.
Enkratna knjiga za kronične odlaševalce. Avtor ponudi dodelan in učinkovit sistem, kako se pravočasno lotiti stvari in jih dejansko opraviti. Meni je resnično spremenila življenje! Obveznosti, ki sem jih prej odlašala, ker so se mi zdele kot ogromen bav-bav, se zdaj upam lotiti in jih uspešno speljati do konca.Še vedno je potreben napor, da ne podležem starim vzorcev odlašanja, ampak zdaj vem, da je produktivna alternativa možna.
