https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5391115-the-awakening
^^I AM IN LOVE WITH A TEENAGE WOLF!^^The second book in the Darkest Powers series is just as engaging as the first, more creepy action and a more Derek.
I will say they have a lot of scenes alone together and they make me very happy.For all y’all who don’t know Chloe is a new discovered necromancer ( able to awaken the dead), first she thought she was schizo but it was discovered that the home she was sent to after experiencing seeing a ghost, were finding ways to harvest her powers.
I will say that I loved to get more time with Chloe and Derek.
There is also more action with the supernatural abilities of some of the adults and kids but I still couldn't get into it all the way.
Sometimes I wonder if it's the mood I'm in or if I really did just like the book and not love it to death.
One will never know unless of course you read it again.
Chloe, Rae and Tori are in cells at The Edison Group after they tried to escape with Derek and Simon in the first book.
What follows is pretty much Chloe's and her friends' journey to get to the person who might be able to help them find Derek's and Simon's father (which is I suppose is what this trilogy is about, but I am not sure at this point).The first book in the trilogy was undoubtedly drawn out and artificially extended, but this second book sure beats that.
It reads as a boring series of events that serve no purpose but to develop the characters, which is fine, when not used so shamelessly to fill pages and pages at the expense of the real plot.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*At least it's better than the first*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱ BEWARE FOR SPOILERS FOR THE SERIES! This whole review can - probably - contain spoilers for the entire series. This review is mostly for me to remember the details.   Re-read: 04.05.2018 . I decided to continue with the re-read with this series. I'm not overly fond with it, never have been, but the story (plot) has some real potential. I just wished the characters where older. 15 and 16 is so young, and blushing because someone holds your hand..
This whole review can - probably - contain spoilers for the entire series.
Main character.↦ Simon Bae (15), a sorcerer; can cast spells, such as levitation and mist projection.↦ Derek Souza (16), diagnosis: antisocial personality disorder, a werewolf and foster brother to Simon.↦ Victoria ‘Tori’ Enright (15), diagnosis: mentally disturbed; bipolar, (view spoiler)[a witch-sorcerer hybrid (hide spoiler)].↦ Rachelle ‘Rae’ Rodgers (15), diagnosis: pyromania, an Exustio half-demon; the highest kind of fire demon you can be.↦ Dr. Lauren Fellows, Chloe's Aunt.
- Derek Souza.Would I read more by this author/or of series?
Tension is heightened by the added appeal of a perfectly sinister and powerful enemy and the suspense of unknown supernatural powers.
Armstrong's teen characters are smart and resourceful, and each obstacle thrown their way requires them to use every bit of caution, wits, and intelligence they possess.
Armstrong focuses a little more on the technical aspects of the teens' powers and abilities, especially as Derek and Chloe explore their capabilities and restraints.
Their difficulties and the tension that they face help them grow as characters and make them more appealing.
But get this, according to Armstrong, you get a demi-demon by mutating the genetic make-up of a demon and as a result you get a human with less subtle demon powers and the added benefit of an attitude problem and anger management issues.
Chloe is not a very bright girl and many of her attempts to either escape, manipulate/lie to the adults, fight off batty ghouls, dead people or wolves are just simply too drawn out or end up in failure.
Now, I understand Derek can't help his acne and BO, but if Armstrong was going to emphasize his insignificant flaws (notice my emphasis on insignificant), give him some character elements worthy of applause.
In The Awakening more action and intense drama occurs.
Since, Tori, Chloe, Derek, and Simon's powers began to involve steadily in the book.
Derek and Chloe?
Yep, their relationship defiantly grew throughout The Awakening and made it one of my favorite parts.
I swear I will scream if they don't get together by the end of this series.
Overall, The Awakening will have any fan of the Darkest Powers Trilogy begging for a sequel by the end.
I look forward to reading the next book, tremendously.
Probably not quite 4 stars but ...this is just one of those series where I want to read all three novels before I really give a solid opinion, but so far I like where it seems to be headed. The pacing could be better (meaning I wouldn't complain if things moved along somewhat) and the relationships could be clearer but overall it's a pleasant experience and I'm eager to read the final book.
Luckily, Derek and Simon are still on the run and on the lookout for Chloe and Rae.After encountering ghosts of some of the former Lyle House occupants Chloe decides to take matters into her own hands and figure out a way to escape, this time for good.
With the help of Liz's ghost and a trapped demi-demon Chloe manages to find more information about the Edison group and how she can possibly escape from them.Once away from the Edison group Chloe is forced to face the reality of living on the run with nowhere and nobody to turn to other than Tori, Derek, and Simon.
I just feel like it was missing so much which is a shock to me because these book are huge.Chloe was so annoying in this book.
I wanted to stab my eyes so I didn't have to see her trying to flirt with everyone and anyone that walked.
Honestly, I only cared a little bit - I mostly just wanted the book to be over..
but then Simon was an annoying twat defending the ground she walked on.
UGH!Overall, I wanted this book to end.
I wanted it to be either shorter and suck..
The only part that adds to the storyline is when Chloe finds out that she and the other kids are part of a big supernatural experiment that could end fatally for them.Chloe spends the whole book making silly decisions based on what she thinks the others want from her.
She's not actually unlikeable because she's so nice, but she's totally useless and dull, and the boys spend the whole book falling all over themselves to try and protect her from all her stupid actions.
Somehow I still feel that I will end up reading the last book.
I mainly just want to see where they end up and who makes out with who.
Delivered in her trademark style, Kelley creates a world within our own where supernatural teens are nothing but science projects to be shown and used then tossed away--sometimes even killed.Chloe's character becomes even clearer in this novel then the one preceding it, and boy is being in her head interesting.
Despite her interest in her powers, Chloe would much rather be normal again--what ever that means, as she no longer knows herself.Although with too little romance for my taste, The Awakening is an even better read than The Summoning.
Although there is danger after danger, ghost after zombie after spell duel, the story remains believable and the characters real: Bickering, bratty witch Tori, puberty-hit werewolf Derek (with acne, anger-issues, wolfish stink, excruciatingly painful and puke-enhanced half-transformations), brave, unsure and compassionate necromancer Chloe and Simon, a diabetic womanizing sorcerer.I especially like the non-perfectness of everybody.
Although Chloe starts to like Derek more and more for himself as the story progresses and to appreciate her ability to talk freely of her anxieties to him, she still notices his flaws in appearance and is flattered by beautiful Simon's attentive flirtation.
Do I still really enjoy the characters and the world and getting to see Chloe struggle through using her powers?
The story is pretty fast paced, and the addition of the mutts definitely adds something for readers of the Women of the Otherworld series.
1/1/2012As I said in my review of The Summoning, I've read this series about half a dozen times now.
While I find it slightly hard to believe that Chloe would be able to deal with running away as well as she does, it's kind of exciting to discover the extent of her powers.
Again, an okay read, and I certainly sped through the pages, but I wanted so much more from these characters - they lacked complexity. It all seems a little too nice and easy, considering the life and death consequences. A bit more Nurse Ratched-like behaviour from the staff holding them captive would have improved this enormously.I didn’t enjoy the similarities to the first book in terms of the plot. I felt like there were key plot elements being recycled.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads.Book 1 focused more on world-building while as this one was all about the action; the kids are still on the run from the Edison Group, Souza had his first encounter with werewolves and it did NOT go well, and living on the streets comes with its own set of challenges as well.
Anyway, another quick and satisfying listen from Armstrong.Cassandra Morris’ narration was appropriate for these audiobooks, her voice fit that of the fifteen year old MC’s, and she incorporated Chloe’s speech impediment into the dialogue admirably.
Better, even, than the Summoning. Kelley Armstrong has successfully escaped the curse of the sequel. Characters, powers, relationships all deepened. I can't wait for the story to go on...!
You never forget the books that made you love reading.
I know the second book in a trilogy may be a hit or miss with lots of people (I've read some good middle books and some bad ones).
It may not be for everyone, I'll admit, but I very much enjoyed it.We get a lot of more information surrounding what was going on at Lyle House and why the characters were there.
Even though The Awakening has lots of dialogue, it's still a good book with lots of intrigue and character growth.
If you really want to read this series, I would recommend it!
I don't know if I want them to end up together or not, but I really enjoyed the adventures the two had, and it was good to learn more about Derek.
He's actually a really cool guy, and it was great to see him finally stop being so rude, open up, and learn to trust someone other than Simon.
Aside from Derek's experience, we finally get to see Tori change from her nasty mean girl act, Simon become even more endearing, and Chloe learn more about her powers and herself.
This is one of the few series I've read that has actually been able to scare me (but in a good way).
After reading the first book in this series, The Summoning, and now the second installment, I can confidently say I much prefer Armstrong's young adult series.
I wasn't sure if I would like the main character, Chloe.
At time’s it felt like Claire had just rolled off the assembly line of damselsRus. Claire holds her own, though, and it becomes fun watching her grow up.
Armstrong has out done herself, Claire's voice has grown stronger even from the last title and she’s actually gotten some back bone.
Best part is you’re not required to be a Kelley Armstrong fan to enjoy these books.
"Here we were, expecting to find you minutes from death.
Look at you, not even gasping.""All right, then.
Emergency medical situation, take two." He leaped to his feet, staggered, keeled over, then lifted his head weakly.
"Chloe?
Is that you?" He coughed.
"Do you have my insulin?" I placed it in his outstretched hand.
"You saved my life," he said.
I smiled, rested my head against his shoulder, and fell asleep to his soft off-tune humming.
And my ship will be sailing soon.
;) very soon.
Read- September 2015 - 5 stars.
Re- read- January 2017 - 5 stars.
Liam and Ramon add a new twist to this story. I loved reading about Chloe's powers and the adventures she has with Derek.
These books give me so many feelings. Derek and Chloe give me so many feelings.
Ano! Ano! Takhle má vypadat správná paranormální série! Akce, akce, akce! Tuhle sérii vážně miluju. A miluju Dereka. Víc Dereka. Víc mrtvol, prosím!
The characters were really complete, with the exception of Simon, who seems most of the time to be simply the nice guy who likes Chloe.
Tori’s sarcastic remarks were a much needed comic relief, and I found myself getting attached to her character.
I like his character because he’s not beautiful or perfect, but he is still the main hero regardless.
I just realized how common – even assumed – that the main male interest in a book is usually super-attractive.
It’s nice to have an imperfect male protagonist for once.4 stars.
Somehow it seems like a vital plot piece.
I was so excited to get my copy of The Awakening from the library.
My mom gave me The Summoning for Christmas and I was addicted.
This only fed my addiction.I could not put this down.
I was in classes trying to scrape together a few minutes to read a page or two.
Especially when I got to the part where Derek turns into a werewolf and she's rubbing his back.
I have to keep reading!" But, as fate would have it, I could not.
So I was totally excited to finish it.I think Derek is falling for Chloe.
Fast-paced and quite entertaining sequel to The Darkest Powers trilogy about Chloe and her friends - Derek, Simon and Tori on the run from the Edison Group. The beginning was little bit slow, but then it kicked off and started to be even more enjoyable than the first book. It was also interesting to watch the friendship development between Chloe and Derek.I'm glad that I have the last book already purchased, because I can't wait to know how it all ends.
The second wonderful, paranormal, romantic book in the series! Chloe's on the run and fighting to stay free and alive... along with Derek, Tori and Simon. And they aren't the best group when I comes to working together. Romance is drifting in the wind with the Edison group, and both things are doing their best to ruin the three people trying to stay alive. Loved it!
THERE IS NOTHING I WANT TO CHANGE ABOUT..Derek and Chloe’s relationship...I found many kinds of romance in books, but the one kind of romance which I really like and want to often find in books is ‘ believable romance ’Romance which I can touch and feel that it is real.‘ I need you’.
[image error][image error]Their relationship develops slowly throughout the series, it grows overtime just like their feelings for each other.Chloe is there for him when he comes through his first Change.
Chloe are always there for Derek every time he comes though his Change, she is there to console him.
But Ms. Armstrong seems to forget her story and all of the suspense and build-ups need to reach an actual climax before the book comes to an end in order to satisfy her readers.When reading this second book of The Darkest Power trilogy, I felt like I was watching a poorly plotted, badly made horror movie---it's so badly made that I never feel frightened by any of the supposedly scary and/or intensive scenes done by Ms. Armstrong.
Our main girl Chloe is also a major letdown here, by now she realizes she can raise the deads at will, but what had she ever done with her power?
