https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40158.The_Queen_of_Attolia
Now I finally understand why everyone seems to like this book so much more than the first. You see, The Thief is a wonderful little book filled with excellent writing, an interesting protagonist, an exciting fantasy world and a great big twist near the end. The Queen of Attolia had all of this, but it just had more of everything. It was everything I loved about the first book... on steroids.Every character and every sentence - damn it, every word even! - is important, serves it's own purpose an
This is a characteristic in books that is rare but oh so wonderful when you manage to find it.Being told in 3rd person, unlike book one which was from Eugenides POV, allows the reader to see the bigger picture and to better understand the world that forms the backdrop of this series and the political relationships between Attolia, Eddis and Sounis.
Like I said, Turner doesn't waste characters and her use of 3rd person in this novel lets us readers see the real queen behind that stone mask of cruelty.
I am not very good at writing positive reviews, so this will probably sound cheesy, but I totally loved every word, every sentence of this story!"The Queen of Attolia" is a second book in Megan Whalen Turner's series about the Thief of Eddis Eugenides.
It is just so much better than "The Thief" written from Eugenide's 1st person POV.
"The Queen of Attolia" is written in 3rd person which allows us to understand the workings of minds of all major players - King of Sounis, Queens of Attolia and Eddis, magus, etc.
I am not lying when I say I loved every word of this book.
but I feel even that won't do my feelings—and this series—justice.Give me a fantasy/fantasy-esque book with heavy political intrigue and you’ve got my undivided attention.
Reading a novel filled with court intrigue, heavy conflicts - more behind the scenes conniving and pulling strings than actual battles, complicated stories full of clever manoeuvres and characters Is. My.
The more I thought I knew the less I actually knew anything when the whole plot took a completely different direction than I’d expected.
Alright, before I move on, let me preface this by saying, the next book in the series The King of Attolia, put Eugenides on the number two spot of my top five favourite male characters in fantasy.
If I am the pawn of the gods, it is because they know me so well, not because they make my mind up for me.  Okay, wow, this was... way better than book one.I love how this one plays around with point of view, showing us both Eugenides’ views on Attolia and Attolia’s view on Eugenides: it’s an excellent view into both of their characters. While I think Whalen Turner occasionally relies too much on not letting you into the head of a character so she can execute a plot twist, we still get an exce
way better than book one.I love how this one plays around with point of view, showing us both Eugenides’ views on Attolia and Attolia’s view on Eugenides: it’s an excellent view into both of their characters.
While I think Whalen Turner occasionally relies too much on not letting you into the head of a character so she can execute a plot twist, we still get an excellent look into these characters, a view that feels dimensional if perhaps not full.
This book may be led by Eugenides, but I think it’s more about Attolia and Eddis and the power in 
If you really need a little more incentive, trust this : The Queen of Attolia is splendidly plotted, its word is inhabited by characters you will adore and want to protect under fire (when you won't be strangling them, but), including strong women (yes PLURAL), a poisonous snake (I KNEW HE WAS A SLYTHERIN COME HOME GEN BABY) and a minister of war who doesn't know that he's hilarious (to me), the writing...
My favorites ""quotes"" (more like scenes) are full of BIG spoilers, so don't look at them if you haven't read the book, but aw damn, I love these characters so much <3 (view spoiler)["Bending over Eugenides, she grabbed his head by the hair above his forehead and twisted.
My highest recommendation for this series!Review originally posted at www.fantasyliterature.com:Megan Whalen Turner’s The Queen of Attolia, the second book in her QUEEN’S THIEF fantasy series, begins much the same as The Thief, the first book in this series: Eugenides (Gen) the thief is in prison.
However, after reading the third book in this series, The King of Attolia, and falling in love with the characters all over again, I came back to The Queen of Attolia to give it a second try, about five years ago.
Oh my god.Honest to goodness spoiler lies within.(view spoiler)["Unable to guess the answer, she asked, "Who am I, that you should love me?""You are My Queen," said Eugenides. She sat perfectly still, looking at him without moving as his words dropped like water into dry earth."Do you believe me?" he asked."Yes," she answered."Do you love me?" "Yes.""I love you."And she believed him. (hide spoiler)]And if that isn't the most perfect, gut-wrenching way to finish a book, I don't know what is.I'm not sure if I can even write a review for this book.
As the nations start warring, the Medeans stand poised to insert their control.This book has all the great elements of a twisty political intrigue, but I think that at its heart it’s all about the internal battles of the characters.
It’s about managing to hold on to faith and trust and grace when the whole world seems to be turning its back.It was so completely refreshing to read a romance not based on sappy, goofy, kind, caring love.
It is definitely the title character, The Queen of Attolia, whose struggle affects me the most.
I love her cold, quiet, powerful control combined with her inner fragility.
2.5/5 StarsWell, I gave it a go and continued on with this series, with the hope that my 3 star rating for The Thief would be higher with this second novel.
So, I guess I'm in the minority, once again.What the first novel in this series had, that The Queen of Attolia lacked, (to name a few) were: lively characters, an exiting adventure, and more humor (I suppose).
Even though I wasn't too fond of the first novel, reading this one made me realize that the characters felt more real in The Thief, than in this book.
Love, love this book- and series, it helps that Ms Turner wrote one of the best (and adorable) male leads ever.
A big detail that makes the reading experience completely different is that, while The Thief was told in our Eugenides' unreliable narrator's first person POV, The Queen of Attolia is narrated in third person omniscient, therefore giving the reader a glimpse into all protagonists' minds and actions and a better understanding of the political mechanisms of the story.
While in The Thief, the whole book revolved around obnoxious Gen who played the lion's share, in The Queen of Attolia other characters finally get to play protagonists' roles and the reader gets the chance to form a personal opinion on them, unfiltered by Gen's eyes.
Turner made the very good choice of switching from first person to roaming third, and tossed us straight in to political intrigue and war and post trauma.So – and, frankly, this is one of those spoilers that has to be revealed because talking about the book without it is like talking about Harry Potter without talking about magic .
Which I liked very much, this book is about acquired disability, and identity changed by trauma, and all of that stuff.
What I liked about this book was that the acquired disability and the post-violence trauma were different processes.
I realize I’m being all modern social theory at a little young adult fantasy book, but you know what?
4.25 Gen Stole My Heart StarsI had a great time reading this with a few friends at  Buddies Books & Baubles I liked The Thief it was a solid 3 star read, it took a little while to get into but the ending was very solid. The Queen of Attolia though….well let’s just say that it had some very unexpected and crazy surprises in store for me. It was so much better than the first book with complex characters and more than one twist I wasn’t expecting. I really love it when a book blindsides me with
I started this book disliking the Queen of Attolia, shortly into this I despised her, then I grew to maybe feel some empathy for her, to finally possibly understanding her and perhaps maybe now I have an smidgen of like happening for her.
But The Queen of Attolia is a great three dimensional character doing her best to rule a country full of Baron’s who do not want to be ruled by her and she is so alone.
Everyone better watch out, he has a new ambition and plan that I think he was willing to go to the grave for.Eddis is another great character and smart Queen.
I really wanted to like this book.
I thought Gen was hilarious and really someone I'd like to have around with - even if he was annoying.The Queen of Attolia started out really good.
I really was not expecting anything like that to happen.
Granted, he has reason to - but that doesn't mean I have to like it.
And just when I thought the action would pick up and that there would be another twist absolutely nothing happens.
I don't want to post spoilers so I can't elaborate, but I really thought that more was going to happen.
I can't deny that it's an amazing book, but at times, I just wanted to throw it away and howl in frustration -- not because any of the characters were misbehaving, but because of the twists and the turns and all the bad things that I don't like happening to anyone.
I'm not saying I'm totally convinced, and I had some The Fountainhead-type flashbacks, but I could deal with the love story, and that is saying a lot, considering how Turner spends most of the first half of the book making us hate The Queen of Attolia, despite her occassional glimpse of humanity.
2.5Edit: I originally rated this 3 stars, but... This book was just SO disappointing, so I'm bringing it down to 2.5. I just... don't even know what was this book. It was REALLY disappointing.Ummm... What on earth was this book? I enjoyed it, but... It was really all over the place. And it was significantly worse than the first book. And just... What even happened here?! Likes - Gen is a likeable MC.- Eddis is amazing!- I really like the Magus... and, um... the role he played in this one was ver
This book was just SO disappointing, so I'm bringing it down to 2.5.
don't even know what was this book.
What on earth was this book?
(view spoiler)[I like it when the MC's kidnap my favourite characters apparently...?
(hide spoiler)]- The writing is good.- The world is unique, and very well developed.- Interesting political tension.
Really bad.- The majority of this book was boring.- Not enough Sophos (aka.
none).- Too much Attolia.- Did I mention I was BORED?!Yeah...
I'll continue the series, because the first book was so good, and I really like (some of) the characters, but...
I can't say anything about this book that would give it its worth or express how it affected me , th
”You aren’t the boy hero anymore.”“Was I ever?” If you're familiar at all with this series, then you'll have already heard that this book is way better than the first one. But I'll just confirm it again anyway - cuz it IS. So much better.This is the story of two young, intelligent queens, Eddis and Attolia; it is a story full of political maneuvering and plays for power, of military strategizing and cunning. And in the midst of it all is Eugenides, the Queen’s Thief, who, true to form, will su
If you're familiar at all with this series, then you'll have already heard that this book is way better than the first one.
And in the midst of it all is Eugenides, the Queen’s Thief, who, true to form, will surprise you in ways you least expect.Complex characters -- I LIKE them.
I LIKE it.Note: If you read the first book and thought it was boring, I can see how this one may bore you also.
The pace and storyline IS more exciting and intriguing than The Thief, BUT there are a lot of "slow" parts also made up of political and war strategizing.
The queen of Attolia is ten times better than the first one.
After a rough start (my heart was bleeding for him guys y.y) and tough events he finally could pull himself up and show that after all he really can steal anything (view spoiler)[even with just one hand.
It was the only way to keep you from wearing it.""My earrings?""What earrings?”The queen of Attolia gives some space to other characters as well, while The Thief was focused only on Gen. I really liked this, I love multiple third person pov, and in this case we had so many interesting characters.
This was mind-bendingly good: rich and intricate, capable of conjuring up more twists and turns in 300 pages than some books do in 500, full of knotty characters, and with a surprising romance that I found myself infinitely more invested in than I could ever have guessed from the first book.
It also has strong, admirable characters and a tortured, brave hero in Gen. It's the kind of fantasy not just written for teens, but smart enough to stand outside the YA genre on it's own.As for me, I have the lowest rating out of all my friends on here O.oWhat can I say?
It's a book worthy of 5 stars, for sure.
I am often in a quandary over the whole star rating thing).
My star ratings are an indication of my love/enjoyment of the book.
Nothing, just not a "me book" (Although I tried to love it, I really did ~ also, I actually think I enjoyed #1 The Thief more, contrary to popular opinion)
Novels like this are rare gems amongst the wash of contemporary YA fantasy and need to be treasured at all costs.My one gripe, and this is actually a pretty major gripe no matter how trivial it may seem, is that, while both books are told from Gen’s perspective, The Thief is first-person and The Queen of Attolia is third-person.
I see why the second book needed to be third-person – it had the odd scene from other perspectives including the eponymous Queen of Attolia – but why in the name of literary consistency was book one told in first person then?
whhhhhiiiiieeeee
If you haven't read the book, please do.(view spoiler)[I wrote in my review of The Thief that I'd forgotten Gen meets the Queen of Attolia in that book.
Loves her for who she is.The book is complex because it's happening on so many levels, but the one I can't stop thinking about is the long game the gods are playing with Gen, with Irene, with the Mede, with everyone.
The nameless goddess says:Softly Eugenides asked, "Why did my gods betray me?""Have they?" asked the goddess as softly."To Attolia, to the Mede..." Eugenides stuttered."Would you have your hand back, Eugenides?
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
So instead I will talk about the characters, which in this book are many faceted and much more developed.
We again follow our charming little thief Eugenides from book one and we also follow the Queen of Eddis and the Queen of Attolia.
I loved the development for Eugenides in this book.
He is still whiny and arrogant, but something happens early in this book that changes he life forever.
What I really loved about his character in this book was that his role changed.
But I think they didn’t make sense at this point in the story.
The kind that makes them keep their husbands up at night expounding upon the splendor that is such a sequel.
While Eugenides struggles to comes to terms with his drastically altered life, Eddis declares war on Attolia for his sake and the three countries are quickly at each other's throats.
As their losses mount, Eugenides realizes there is one more thing he can steal from Attolia that will save his country from destruction.
I spent a a fair bit of time holding back sobs while reading this book.
You see I fell in love with Eugenides.
"Steal peace, Eugenides" Approximately 150~ pages later..."You were the princess Irene the first time we met.""It means peace."BOO-YAH. IN YO FACE.
Not that there's anything wrong with that.* But I think you tend to miss the forest for the trees when you're too focused on finding the next turn, and what a forest Megan Whalen Turner creates.
I also love seeing how an ice cold queen, or a Tom Riddle comes to be the way they are.
Whalen Turner more than makes up for that with this book.
You don't even see an olive tree reference til, like, the SEVENTH page.
And after that, the next reference doesn't come up for another hundred pages or so.
(hide spoiler)] The fact that I didn't give up showed how much Turner made me care about her character in just that few chapters (again, didn't read the first book).
However, I never found out the reason behind this great love Eugenides had for Attolia, especially considering it survived her unusual cruelty.
To me, Attolia's conflicting and evolving emotions toward Eugenides were more reasonable, therefore made their relationship growth more believable in spite of the unexplained affection on Eugenides' part.
Though some of the conflicts and the reasoning behind them seemed childish, this too could be overlooked since the book isn't "The Art of War".
