https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1347298.The_Case_of_the_Lame_Canary
A woman came to Perry Mason for a consultation regarding her sister's divorce problem - granted it was a fairly complicated one.
This time however he was curious: the woman in question came to him with a canary in a cage - almost nobody brings this kind of a pet to a lawyer.
My usual rating for a Perry Mason book is 4 stars.
I gave the same rating to some classic books.
Add very rare moments of romance between Perry Mason and his secretary Della Street and you have a higher-than-usual rating.
In this outing, Perry gets suckered into taking a divorce case when a young woman shows up in his office carrying a cage with a lame canary in it.
Under normal circumstances of course , Perry would never touch something as boring as a routine divorce suit and the woman insists that the lame canary is incidental to the whole business and that she just happened to have it along with her.
Even worse, the cops take possession of the poor canary and God only knows what's going to happen to it.As is always the case in these books, things get terribly convoluted.
The case starts out interesting but got quite complicated as it progressed. The finish was really twisted and made sense only after the explanation was provided.
THE CASE OF THE LAME CANARY.
***1/2.There really is a lame canary.
Gardner uses that ruse to introduce his main characters while all together in Perry Mason’s office.
This is a pretty well-wrapped tale by Gardner, although it did tend to unravel towards the end.
What did turn up differently in this novel was that Mason actually asked Della to marry him.
Gardner uses the technique of distracting the reader with a plot that doesn’t really exist while he eventually develops the real plot towards the end.
Aside from a couple of red herrings from Mason, this was a fairly tight novel.
Distinct characters developed throughout the book.
This book revels Gardeners ability to write great characterized and his ability to work too hard to use elements to create a book.As I read the book I could see how Gardner had a set of distinct parts he worked real hard to fit together.
You know there is a conclusion at the end, but keep seeing many pages ahead as Gardner tries to weave in some nonsense leads that,in any other of his books, Mason would have been written to figure out.Though I don't care for the overall story, the writing is top notch and,again, just reading character interaction is outstanding.Bottom line: I recommend this book.
Best Perry Mason I've read to date. Way better than the formulaic stuff from which they made the tv series. Twists I certainly didn't see coming, and a little romance at the end. A few loose ends, little character development, but a great plot. Read it.
This is the first Perry Mason mystery where I really lost interest in the mystery because it became so convoluted that the ENTIRE second-to-last chapter is Perry explaining who killed who and why and where and...
Unlike most of Gardner's mysteries, the cast of suspects/clients are not very well-drawn.
They don't engage us and so we don't care if they're guilty/innocent/being set up.The only interesting aspect of this book is that Perry proposes to Della Street and that the case must be solved in time for them to board a round-the-world cruise.
This leads into the next mystery, CASE OF THE SUBSTITUTE FACE (1938), that takes place on board the cruise ship.
The plot was decent enough, because really Gardner can't do a bad one, but the big news was in the character development area.
Mason proposes to Della, you guys!!!!
And she, being her bad girl self, asks if he expects her to be the good wifie and stay home, to which he replies, "Well, duh."And she immediately comes back with "Nope, not happening then, because I'm having a hella more fun the way it is." Whereupon the pair of them leave for a cruise around the world.
Whether two cabins or one is conspicuously left to the reader's interpretation, but I betting Della's not the shy type, shall we say.
Se lo robé a mi hermana y no he podido parar de leerlo!! Otro crimen de Perry Mason volverá a mis manos seguro...

The real plot for reason of murder is almost never told, you are forced to guess, which Mason also does.
Clues to real reason are extremely scarce.
This is a typical Agatha Christie trick.
However, i remember I had managed to guess the real murderer in my first reading years ago, although I dont thing I could not guess the sequence of events before Mason explained them in the end though.
Della Mason romance is interesting, and way too partiarchial.
I think Gardner must have received some criticism about this in past so he extended it a bit in one other novel.All in all good mystery.
One of the few cases where Della is more romantic and more of a sweet heart than a proper, practical, efficient secretary. The case was too twisted for me. It is red herring all the way with the correct solution being hinted at in between. But the solution, was way out of my league till Mason explains it at the very end.
good Perry Mason story
I've been reading Gardner's Perry Mason books off and on for decades.
Nonetheless, I still love the general setting: the characters of Perry, Della, Paul, Lt. Tragg, and Hamilton Berger.
It is excellent.The story begins when young Rita Swaine calls on Perry Mason.
There are very good "court room" scenes, but not at a trial, rather at two coroner's inquests.Adding human interest, Della had been trying to get Perry to take a vacation.
This is one of the novels where there is a dramatic resolution during the trial (coroner's inquest).Perry proposes to Della near the end!
Everything is ready for a cruse around the world that Mason is to take with his devoted secretary, Della Street.
To be more specific, the lame canary the client carries.
Two lookalike sisters; scheming husband; nosy neighbors; peculiar car accident; missing witnesses; protective lover; lame canary,;and a corpse.
Although my favorite part of the series is trail, I enjoyed the book as much as the others.
I love all the little legal peculiarities Gardner introduces.
The business with Della Street was a little too obvious to me from the moment the baggage was revealed.
Erle Stanley Gardner has not written really bad books.
The plot is quite OK and the story races at a neat pace.Towards the end, while on a cruise, Perry Mason "proposes" to Della Street and she thinks that life is great the way it is, with her being the Secretary!
Would I recommend that you go and buy the book?
YES, if you are buying it in India, since it is only Rs.85!
Would I rate this book to be among the top 75% of all books written by Erle Stanley Gardner?
A Perry Mason story usually centers around a legal matter, a murder, or an unusual circumstance. This story, it is an unusual circumstance. A woman wants help with her sister's domestic troubles. Perry is about to decline the job until he notices the woman's canary is lame. This leads him into a fraudulant car accident, and then a murder. As it turns out the lame canary is the clue that solves the mystery. I like the Perry Mason books for their good pace, easy to read story and legal action in the courtroom.
#11 in the Perry Mason series. This 1937 entry is a quite enjoyable entry in the 82 book series.Perry Mason is visited by Rita Swain concerning the marital problem her sister is having. Sister Rosalind (or look alike Rita) is visited by ex-boyfriend Jimmy and then husband Walter's body is discovered. Tracking the timeline of the suspects and tracing possible witnesses and what they saw form the basis of one of the best Perry Mason puzzlers.
Finished the book in a day. Like the one prior to this one, I never expected 'him' to be the murderer! Just when I thought I know how Erle does his story. This is a very good book, though I got confused at the revelation part and re-read the ending chapter just to get it. Two thumbs up! Nice follow-up on Mason and Della's love affair. :)
Interesting plot. Very abrupt ending with twisted logic as expected of any of these kind of books. Kept me interested till the end. Didn't want to put down.As always perfect companion for the wait for the four hour delayed train.Somewhere between 3 and 4. But not worth the four. So settling for a three.
This one starts interesting, with a woman showing up at Mason's office carrying a canary. The end felt too convoluted.Notable parts of this book: Della tries to force Mason to go on a cruise vacation with her. Near the end, Mason asks something unexpected of her, and she gives an answer that is even more unexpected.
What starts as a divorce case ends as a murder (of course). This series just keeps getting better, with more clever plot twists. And, here we have a whole new view of the Mason-Street relationship. If you're used to the TV show, the ending will come as a surprise!
Complex, talky, with maybe too many surprises, but enjoyable enough for me because, though it was written 22 years before the TV premiere of "Perry Mason, I couldn't help but hear the voices of Raymond Burr and company.
When the book started, I've no clue how it ends and why a criminal lawyer is consulted. As the pages moved... case got interesting. The courtroom conversations were at their best. A pretty decent ending.
Another delightful Perry Mason mystery. However, you can see the resolution to the mystery from the onset and nevertheless, there are a few lose ends at the conclusion of the book. Thus, it rates 4 stars out of 5.
The case itself ends up pretty zany, with a wild coroner's inquest revealing whodunnit, though it takes a couple chapters after that to explain why. Those who enjoy the Perry Mason/Della Street romance will find quite a bit to like, and Paul Drake gets some good moments as well.
I like how the Perry Mason character is evolving. Not as gruff as in the earlier books and his demeanor is much more professional. The plots, however, are becoming more complicated and involve more characters. I'm going to have to start taking notes.
A rather convoluted mystery that starts with a crippled bird (quickly forgotten) into a tangle of family greed and the motives. The most interesting aspect of this book is that at the end, Perry and Della go onto a cruise of Hawaii, then Asia, and Perry asks Della to marry him while on board.
Loved the relationship between Perry & Della that is shown in this book.
This was good and exciting all the way to the end.
