https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660273.The_Clock_Strikes_Twelve
The first (roughly) 40% of the novel is the introduction of characters, the background to who they are and how they relate to each other, and – the murder itself.
Because yes, there is a murder.
In this stage, there were very few suspects that I was willing to exonerate.Then, Miss Silver is called into the case and during the last 50% of the book, she uses her exceptional mind, mild-mannered demeanor, and governess skills to sift through the debris, sort out the remaining tiny puzzle pieces, and put them together sufficiently well to allow the invisible, missing pieces to be filled in.I could go on about how crystal clear the writing is, and what a joy it is to spend time with Miss Silver and her great sleuthing skills, but I will leave it to you to read some of Patricia Wentworth’s Miss Silver books and decide for yourself!
The crime happen & as usual in the Golden Age crimes, no one wastes too much time on lower class actions like grief.It's all moving along at a very pleasant, if somewhat cliched pace.
This reader felt much the same & the tone & pace of the book much improved upon her arrival.All came to a satisfactory conclusion & just when it was about to come to an end (view spoiler)[ a twist!
(hide spoiler)]Not a world beater, but very satisfying & while I'm not in a rush to read another Wentworth, I definitely will at some point.
An old-fashioned whodunit, with lots of twists and turns.
Now I finally appreciate Miss Silver. After reading #1 in this series, I was not impressed with her personality. But The Clock Strikes Twelve is #7, and Miss Silver truly engages with the people she is investigating, and her character has been filled in quite a bit more since the beginning of series.The plot in this one is pretty good with many twists and turns, and none of the characters made me cringe, although I did get a bit tired of the author impressing me with the red color scheme in Mr. Paradine's home.All in all, a great read.
The Clock Strikes Twelve by Patricia Wentworth is a delightful classic mystery, featuring Miss Silver, an elderly lady who knits and solves crimes.
Patricia Wentworth wrote 32 Miss Silver mysteries, which are sadly out of print.
I was lucky enough to get one of these through Net Galley.The Miss Silver books are a must read for any fan of classic English mysteries.
James Paradine has gathered all of his nearest and dearest together for a New Year’s dinner, during which he announces that he knows that one of them has been disloyal to the family.
The Clock Strikes Twelve by Patricia Wentworth:- The era is a time during te World War 1.
The clock rings in a New Year at midnight just as someone is murdered.
A party takes place on News Year.
This reminds me of a Sherlock Holmes mystery of “Who done it”.
A murder at midnight.
A room full of sour relations who are suspects.
Although, the mystery is a typical spin-off of classic murderous fiction, the plot is well written in the Wentworth style.
She has her hands full with a room full of suspects all of which have a motive for murder.
The Clock Strikes Twelve (Miss Silver #7), Patricia Wentworth
"Why don't we tell the truth?" She was looking up into his face.
His eyes avoided her.
He accused one of us of a crime.
That's what it amounted to, didn't it - he accused one of us - one of the ten people who'd been dining with him.
And he said he'd wait in his study for one of us to come and confess.
Well, he waited, and he was murdered.
Do you think Vyner's going to look outside of those ten people for the murderer?"Just finished the last words....Wow!
I like the fact that Miss Silver is knitting when she wants to question a person, it puts people at ease and gives them the impression they're having a mundane discussion even though she worms the truth out of them!
To read such a novel, it's like looking through the hole in the little mouse's house and see how the investigation is going, it's to be at the heart of the action without actually being in it and have the chance to find the culprit before Miss Silver - and that part is not won!In a nutshell A great book, very well written with engaging characters.
The clock strikes twelve All the people cry 'O Hell!' A bomb's been flung  On the family interests which has wrung Out the secrets, mysteries, unsolved fantasies Claimed shame, and fame, but who's to be blamed?
Anyhow, I've no remorse and by the end of the way, in fact, I'm glad I read this art.(view spoiler)[Ok so here's another (no surprise there now huh?) queer 'thing'.
Call it that little inferential ability in me, *shrugs* or you can put the blame on the 12 year old who'd first read it expecting the usual detection, mystery, suspense package (and got it too with a complacent smile!).
Emotionally damaged dictatorial matriarchs feature often in Wentworth's books - it's particularly satisfying to see the weaker characters rise up, show some guts, and turn the tables.
I enjoy Wentworth's frequent use of the phrase "he thought a lot of" someone, meaning he valued that person.
I often heard my parents use that phraseology when growing up in the USA in the 50s - they were born around the turn of the century and it's interesting that that expression was common also in the States in the 40s.
Although definitely of their time, Wentworth's novels have an enduring humanity about them that is quite precious.
Oh, hang on a second...Wentworth really is the mistress of creating truly unlikable characters.
You *want* this person to be the victim, or that person to be the murderer, and every character is very well rounded out.
A lot of it is to do with her not being in a hurry to kill the victim off.
I think it works a lot better than the traditional method of learning about them as the detectives do, no need to spend time slowly learning who the victim was and why, we know the who and we can guess the why, but can we?
New year's Eve 1941 and the Paradine family and their relations are sitting around the dining table when the head of the family Mr James Paradine announcing that a crime has been committed and he knows that it was one of the family, and he wishes the guilty to admit this by midnight. When James Parridine is murdered Miss Maud Silver in invited to try and solve the crime.A nice intriguing mystery.
While the mystery wasn't bad, the annoying habits of some of the characters lessened my enjoyment. Irene was especially annoying, and Miss Silver's pointed cough set my teeth on edge.
Though it seems to come right by chapter six, a family tree at the beginning of the book would have been a very welcome addition.The plot is really rather good, and you’ll be delighted to know that Wentworth sets traps for people like me, who vainly consider themselves to be hardened armchair detectives.
Miss Silver, on the other hand, may be an observer of human nature, but her logic, though good, is complex in the extreme.
This one was a reread but I did not remember it much at all; it is a decent cosy mystery but a bit forced & obvious in some places, and Wentworth is using a particular type of heroine (rather than the detective, Miss Silver, more on whom below) which I find to be dull.
It's a type she moves away from as she continues writing, whether due to her interests changing or due to her read of modern women and the marketplace, I have no idea -- but anyway, this book has one of these dull heroines and so I find it less enjoyable than many.
There have been comparisons between Wentwoth's Miss Silver and Christie's Miss Marple.
Also, Patricia Wentworth is much more serious, even though the Christie tropes are here: upper class twits, country houses, money and murder.
Yet it's all so THIN...Published in 1944, THE CLOCK STRIKES TWELVE sets the scene quite well.
I thought this interesting as it was the norm when this book was set and published.
But the events and characters in the country house are less realistic - more of the problems of people who actually have "drawing rooms" and servants.In total, nothing much to see here.
Wentworth really turned a corner with her writing in this one.
The setup is laid out very tightly in the first few chapters, and there are none of the cockeyed cliches of the earlier novels.
I was pretty excited at the beginning that this was going to be a really great mystery.
Sadly, I guessed the murderer right off, and though there were some twists and turns, it just wasn’t all that clever.
Added to that, Wentworth is still sticking in her sexist 40s stereotypes of sweet weak-willed héroïnes and moody grunting men.
The Miss Silver mysteries remain diverting but not classic.
Again, not truly a four-star book, but by comparison with Wentworth's later novels this is so much better that it has to be marked out positively in some way. | More legitimate suspects than in many Miss Silver novels, though before the murder had even occurred I had figured out the killer. A satisfying ending, creepy if you get to thinking about the psychology of one of the characters. The usual romantic alliances.
Patricia Wentworth definitely recycles plots and characters and unfortunately I've just read two in a row that are quite similar. It's not bad but what spoils it for me is the character who finds her husband's violence romantic - and the reader is rather expected to agree.
The familiar Miss Silver plot here--big family and patriarch sets a trap and it springs on the wrong person. Psychological twists here, and thwarted love, and greed for control of a person rather than money.
there's a pattern in Patricia Wentworth, though this plot is better than usual/
This was a page turner and thoroughly enjoyable. I guessed the murderer early on only to keep second guessing myself throughout. This is perfect for escapist summer reading!
I love Miss Silver.
Un bon whodunnit mais la fin m'a un peu frustrée... On a l'impression que l'auteure n'arrivait pas à se décider entre deux potentiels meurtriers.
My first Miss Silver which I really enjoyed because of the author's rich characterization.*First Line: Mr. James Paradine leaned forward and took up the telephone receiver.
A bit slow at the beginning but Miss Silver is clever and insightful as always!
C+
The usual English cozy mystery with the usual elements,.
This is because Miss Silver refuses to look away from the truth, no matter how unpleasant it is.Thwarted romance often plays a minor role in the Miss Silver mysteries, and there’s a focus on the damaged relationship between Phyllida and Elliot, as well as on solving the crime that takes place.
The Miss Silver stories are satisfying Golden Age mysteries, and I have found the wartime ones especially appealing, for their sense of the time – the menace and uncertainty hanging over everything feels very real, because these books were written as WWII was raging.
