https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/258468.The_Strange_Power
I've lost count of how many times I've read this book so far, and it's still a great read. I can't wait for the romance storyline to kick in though, even if it is a love triangle!8 out of 10
Tak docela nechápu, proč je tolik protěžovaná série Upíří deníky, protože právě díky upírům nemá L.J.zrovna dobré jméno.
Přitom právě série jako je Temné vize nebo Tajný kruh ukazují, že Smith psát umí a že její hrdinky nejsou jenom hloupoučké panenky zmítané krutostí osudu.Kaitlyn se narodila s určitým darem.
A tak se Kait i po počátečním odmítnutí nakonec rozhodne zkusit zjistit, co vlastně umí a jak své schopnosti ovládat.
Ze začátku knihy jsem nevěděla, co si o ni mám myslet, ale zamlouvalo se mi, jak se postupem času její osobnost vyvíjela.
Lewis a Anna byli zajímaví, ale příliš jsem se toho o nich nedozvěděla.
By miracle, a rich and old man takes interest in them and select them to be part of an experiment supposed to help them better understand their powers, he also generously offers them a scholarship to a really nice school and set funds aside for them to go to College.
I also liked Gabriel's antagonism as well which brought a bit of action in the house.The plot WAS enjoyable, but I didn't really understand the romance part of it.
Everything just happens to fast and it makes the story really awkward.I would have liked the book better if L.J. Smith had just drop the romance altogether and focused ONLY on the actual plot.
Kdo tuto autorku už odsoudil, zkuste to ještě přehodnotit, protože po přečtení této knihy si možná řeknete, že L. J. umí psát i dokonce dobré knihy. :)
Rating: 2.5 Stars My introduction to L.J. Smith started with her Forbidden Game Series – a trilogy which immediately hooked me in and forced me to fall in love with it – so color me surprised to find another one of her trilogies, Dark Visions, to be strangely lacking in comparison.
However, where The Darkest Powers cast a strong heroine, interesting romance, and complicated friendships, Dark Visions failed to do that.Kaitlyn is a likeable protagonist, but she lacks human flaws.
I had always loved how Smith made it a point to show how the experiences of her characters changed them, but I found that to be lacking in everyone except Gabriel in this book.
Cost: Free gift Title:  The Strange Power Series:  The Dark Visions #1 Author:  L.J. Smith Overall Rating:  4 starsThis might be the only bind up of LJ Smith's that I haven't read yet, and this beginning book was so good that I'm wondering why it's taken me so long to get round to them!
The opening line of this book is literally, "You don't invite the local witch to parties." But this story turned out to be based upon psychic powers which is interesting.
I've never really read anything about psychics before so this was really good.
I'm going to give a full review once I finish the whole series. I'm actually going to review the full box set, since I can't stand this book cover. Isn't Kate supposed to be Red!?!! The girl on the cover is blond. And is that Rob on the cover... he get's a cover???Gabriel!!!
No né. :) Opravdové překvapení! :) Říkají to všichni, řeknu to i já.. nesuďte L.J. Smith podle Upířích deníků!!
You know a book is bad when you go into it with very low expectations and you can't even finish the mere 250 pages it contains.....yeah. That's how bad this book was
Na to vždy přijde, až když se to něco stane.Potom se ale objeví záhadný pan Zetes, který jí, a dalším zvláštním lidem, nabízí možnost přestěhovat se do institutu, kde budou pracovat na svých schopnostech a zjišťovat, čeho všeho jsou schopní.Kdo by to byl řekl, že Smithová napsala knihu, a dokonce celou sérii, která je takhle dobrá.
A dělá tak opravdu dobře, protože tahle část je dobře vymyšlená a propracovaná.Jenže aby to zase nebyla stará „dobrá“ Smithová a nepředvedla nám něco ze své romantiky, pokud tomu tedy chcete tak říkat.
Takže děj přelétá od jednoho k druhému, nejdříve se seznamujeme se záhadnou stránkou této knihy, která má opravdu potenciál, aby se z ní vyklubalo ještě něco zajímavějšího.
Síce to nie je majstrovské dielo, ktoré by sa malo nejako zapísať do dejín, ale je to čitateľné, napínavé a lepšie ako Denníky.
Áno autorka zabŕdne aj do lásky a s ňou priamo spadne do ľúbostného trojuholníka (príde mi, že inú milostnú zápletku asi ani nepozná) a tie časti knihy nie sú dobré.
Síce je trochu klišé, ale pravdepodobnejšie ako Rob. A ja by som si vybrala jeho.
Ja už len dodám, že som zvedavá či autorka vytrvala v tom dobrom nábehu, ktorým začala a ešte príbeh vygradovala alebo spadla do klišé, ktoré nám už predviedla v denníkoch.
2015 Reading Challenge- A book by a female author- A mystery or thriller- A book at the bottom of your to-read list- A trilogy (#1 of 3)- A book with a love triangle- A book set in high school - A book with magicI'm only re-reading this trilogy to finally finish it.
I started this series way back in middle school but never got around to reading the last book.
I just need to make it through two more books so I can finally check this one off my list.
un libro di L.J. Smith lo si riconosce subito: una ragazza incontra un bellissimo ragazzo e se ne innamora perdutamente a prima vista, poi c'è il solito ragazzo misterioso e con un cattivo carattere. lei si innamora di lui segretamente ma si mette con il ragazzo buono. forse cambia la cornice che la Smith fa intorno a questo ma alla fine la storia centrale è sempre la stessa. almeno, questo è ciò che penso io.
Tohle je první kniha od L.J. Smith, co jsem četla, a musím říct, že měla úžasný nápad. Všechno bylo tak dokonale promyšlené a zvraty, které se objevily, nebyly nijak nucené. Zkrátka pohodová kniha!
For a more detailed review, check out my review below:Debra's Book CafeDebs :-)
The whole thing felt like a rehashing of her previous books , especially the Vampire Diaries . Although the MC's witchy eyes reminded me of Alexandra Daddario.

Overall, this was pretty bland, but it was an easy read, and I'm slightly interested in the sequel, so I *might* continue.
Dějová linie není z nejoriginálnějších, ale na tom kniha netěží.Nejvíce se autorka spoléhá na své postavy.
Díky tomu se příběh nese v příjemném, svěžím duchu a autorka nejspíše zachytila vše, co chtěla.Abych se dostala k ději - naše hlavní hrdinka má dar.
Ale to k ní patří a jsem ráda, že není jiná.Jednoho dne do její školy příjde žena, která jí nabídne jinou budoucnost.
Díky jednoduchosti jazyka se kniha čte až ďábelsky rychle, což zamrzí, naštěstí však autorka již napsala další díl, na který se můžeme u nakladatelství Fragment těšit příští rok na jaře.
As a YA novel, it was great; the book is well paced, character development is decent, and the plot is full of mystery & suspense, with a dash of supernatural and teen romance.
Additionally, Kait often has to deal with Gabriel, who is dark, mysterious, and stubborn, and should have been her love interest needs to constantly be convinced to help the group out.
Honestly, once I started, it wasn't easy to put the book down!
When I think about the other YA books by L.J. Smith that I loved, this one just seemed very shallow.
The writing style, even though it was from the view point of a teenager sounded kind of old school and I really liked that.
So the writing style for The strange power was kind of the same, I felt myself forgetting that it was from the view on a teenager.
It was also a fairly quick read I finished it in two days.
However from start to finish, It was indistinguishable the amount of days that passed.
It seemed, and their was no evidence to prove otherwise, that only a few days had passed.
I still plan on reading book two and three.
Kaitlyn Fairchild has always been treated as the odd on in her school and in the town where she was living because of her ability to see the future.
But things changed when she was offered by an institute to participate in a study about psychic abilities.
In fact it was so fast that there isn't much time to get to know the characters.
There was no connection with the characters and the reader.Maybe because this is still the first book so it has that introductory feel in it.
I guess I have yet to get to know them more in the following books.
It is my favorite L.J. Smith series.
I love Kate, and how Smith writes her as such a relatable and believable person.
She is a strong and independent girl (unlike Jenny in The Forbidden Game trilogy) who is desperate to connect with other people and learn to control her ability.
Smith often uses a love triangle of light vs.
In her other series, the heroine almost always chooses the "good guy" (see The Vampire Diaries, The Forbidden Game, The Secret Circle).
I love that Kate chooses Gabriel in this trilogy.
The darkness to her personality matches his as well, and she brings out the better part of him.
Rating: 4.5/5Cover: 2/5 - Not a fan of the photography or color scheme.Ah L.J Smith...
It's been so long since I had read The Night World series that when I saw on my bookshelf that I hadn't read this I knew I had to.Sure, some of the stuff in the story was expected like the fact that these kids have powers and well they trust in people they shouldn't but in the end the villains lose HOWEVER I still loved this book and I can not wait to read the next one.I do and will always recommend an L.J Smith novel.
I am not sure about my ratings...There must be something between OK and "Didn't like"In my view the concepty was pretty good but I didn't like the whole story...Yes it was fast butalso slow, there was nothing great happening...the characters were also good but the villain was too straight forward and may I say stupid with no style at all.I LIKED THE CONCEPT but plese move on , do something ...
Recenzia na blogu: http://the-bookland.blogspot.sk/2012/...Kniha sa rýchlo a príjemne čítala, zároveň je však nesmierne jednoduchá a nedostala sa mi pod kožu. Takže jej patria lepšie tri hviezdičky & po pokračovaní zrejme tak skoro nesiahnem, ak vôbec...(Btw - Zvláštna sila je oveľa lepšia ako Upírske denníky, ktorými je L.J. taká známa.)
Between 4 to 4.5 stars Thank God that I have this big volume with the three books inside it.I loved this book it was more like introduction for the five kids and their powers in my eyes. Still it was intriguing with fast base. I hope the series will end beautifully. I don't think I will finish the other two parts before the year ends but I will try.
The first time I read these were 8 years ago, and while it was still a really good read, I didn't enjoy it quite so much the second time around. The second and third books in the series were so much better than the first though, so hopefully I'll enjoy them the same.
Whoa...this was different. And good! Five teens are drawn together due to their abilities only to discover they've been duped. The adventure begins..>!
