https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12813630-the-coldest-girl-in-coldtown
Stop being stupid, [Tana] told herself, even though it was much too late for that. She’d been a hundred kinds of stupid already. I mean, I can hardly be accused of being excessively judgmental on a character's idiocy when she repeatedly realizes she's being dumb, right? :|I know that Twilight is standard for the vampire book we love to hate. It's often been the butt of my jokes, and I often find myself mocking Bella Swan for her stupidity. With that said, I would read the Twilight series three
There was too much needless introspection, too many flashbacks, and memories, and characters' POVs that felt largely irrelevant to the main part of the story.The concept of Coldtown was interesting at first, but ended up being a mess with a lot of holes and inconsistencies that my mind could not comprehend.
Tana runs into a chained vampire (who might have been the murderer), and her douche of an ex-boyfriend, who has clearly been bitten and is now Cold.
Tana's foolishness, impetuousness, idiotic decision making never, ever stops, and I could not enjoy this book considering she is the main character.Not to mention this particularly foolish moment: YOU WANT TSTL?
1.5 starsPlease note that I didn't manage to read the last thirty pages (approx) because, in short, I just couldn't do it. I feel really sad about The Coldest Girl in Coldtown as it was easily in my top five most anticipated books of 2013. Since the end of Black's Curse Worker series, I've been desperate to get my hands on anything and everything she writes and I confess to still loving a good vampire novel when it's being told by a capable author. And I gave this book every chance to turn it a
A huge percentage of the book is made up of world-building info-dumps and flashbacks to Tana's childhood and the time when her mother became a vampire.
I'm something of a fangbanger) and, despite what seems to be a typical bad boy vamp cliche, Black does offer several chapters of background story on Gavriel so he becomes more fleshed out than other similar love interests.
Very little happened in the present of the story beyond Tana and Gavriel going at it like horny little bunnies (I exaggerate, that might have been a better book).
You know, I used to be so in love with vampires in my #preteenhood—after all, ‘‘The Vampire Diaries’’ was one of the first series I had ever read and I fell hard for it.After that I read ‘‘Twilight’’ like almost every Edward fan on Earth and after that… I couldn’t stop.
I would pick whatever vampire book I found.
But now… It’s not the same thing anymore.
Things change.
I feel like I know everything about vampires.
I actually picked this up because I thought I missed reading about vampires, but turns out I do not.
For now, it’s chao vampires.
Looking back on the book, I suppose that I'm not really the target demographic.
(And by "Targeted" I'm mostly talking about the marketing, rather than Black's writing.) That said, I really enjoyed it.
And it only occurred to me right now as I was sitting down to write about it that this book might not be *for* me, technically.
I found it a really take on what has the potential to be a very tired trope - a world where vampires have emerged from the shadows.
I found the world very interesting and realistic, and the perspective of the story very personal and emotionally charged.
Holly Black is my Queen But if you didn't believe in monsters, then how were you going to be able to keep safe from them? Tana lives in a world where vampires are no longer creatures of myths.  Only Holly Black can take such a worn out trope and breath fresh life into it.  Even from the beginning, that was the problem. People liked pretty things. People even liked pretty things that wanted to kill and eat them.  And, like any good government, the US immediately banished the "new" citizens to con
People even liked pretty things that wanted to kill and eat them.
People go in but never out.Tana wants none of that but when an accidental encounter leaves her potentially infected, she knows she's going to have to go to Coldtown to protect herself and her family.
I love the characters in this book.
Audiobook CommentsThe book was a 4.5 for me but listening it it - 5.0 - definitely.
This is one of my all time fave audiobooks - huge thank you to Christine Lakin for reading this one.I've read a few books that use music in between chapters and I'm normally not a fan.
"What are they? Are they diseased or demonic? Are they citizens who have become ill, deserving hospitals and care, as some have argued? Or are they the bodies of our loved ones animated by some dark force that we ought to seek to destroy?" And here I thought originality was gone from vampire stories! It takes none other than Holly Black to prove me wrong. Coldest Girl in Coldtown is not only unique, it's a fun, exciting story full of horror and blood with a little flair of post apocalyptic. Eve
Coldest Girl in Coldtown is not only unique, it's a fun, exciting story full of horror and blood with a little flair of post apocalyptic.
Though if you've read anything by Holly, you'll know she has a way of shaping characters into real, perfectly flawed, and down to earth individuals; Tana being no exception.
The characters Tana meet throughout this story all shine with charisma, and the villains with atrocity.
And since the blurb kind of hints at one, I can safely say there is no love triangle in this book.
A very interesting take on a very common topic (vampires). Also, I really enjoyed how the author included pretty much every type of relationship, gay/straight/bi/transgender. It was very modern, and I was happy to see it included in a YA book.
I really enjoyed the beginning of this book, but towards the middle it slowed down and I began to lose interest.
The concept of vampirism in this book was also sort of confusing to me, with "the cold" and how you don't necessarily have to become a vampire if you get infected.
I'm used to the straightforward "get bitten, become vampire" type of thing and this world with coldtowns and whatnot unfortunately kept me from getting completely into the story.
Also, I listened to an audiobook version, which I should have learned by now that it's not my thing.
Straight up brilliance! I thought I couldn't be more impressed with Holly's writing than I already was, but this book was EXACTLY what I wanted years ago when I finished her short story (which evolved into this novel). I'll be buying copies of this one for friends & family. Highly recommended.
3.5/5 starsI'm torn because I really loved Holly Black's writing in this book, but the story still felt too rushed and put together for me.
There was lots of insta-love and the characters didn't really get developed - Tana did a bit, but barely.
I can understand the rushed feeling because it is a standalone paranormal book - which there are hardly any of - but I've read some great standalones that aren't rushed and include some great character development - I just think this one could've been better!Overall it wasn't a bad book, I definitely enjoyed reading it, but it wasn't one of my favorites and didn't blow my mind.
The Coldest Girl in Coldtown was a deliciously creepy and dark story, one that made my heart race and thrill.Tanna lives in a world that seems not too far off from our own; a time when vampires are no longer myth but present and a threat.
Now she’s on the run with her ex-boyfriend, Aiden, and a boyishly handsome vampire, Gavriel, trying to make it to one of the Coldtowns before Aiden fully changes.
The romance in this story was perfect, and not overwhelming, yet enough to speed your heart rate up in whenever Gavriel and Tanna are together.
I really liked the first 50 pages but after that everyone and everything annoyed me.
I've been on a Holly Black binge lately, reading all her books.
Pissed at myself for not starting this journey farther back.
So, vampires are hit or miss for me when it come to books.
I mainly dig the blood thirsty movie kind.As for characters, I loved Tana!
In pretty much all the vamp books I've read, I've pretty much come across annoying female leads.
Loved that!
It was pretty cool that every other chapter was sort of flashbacks or other characters.
Gave the book a little more depth!
Let me just say as of right now, I will definitely read anything this woman writes!
“And I have feelings for you, too. Big, weird, crazy feelings.” I have mixed feelings about this book, but overall I liked it.Tana was an okay character, and it was valiant the way she didn’t leave a vampire behind to his fate! Even if the decision was likely to kill her!The storyline in this was alright, although it reminded me quite a bit of ‘The Immortal Rules’, which is probably in part because I found the pace in both of them quite slow. But otherwise – dystopian setting, slightly differen
I have mixed feelings about this book, but overall I liked it.Tana was an okay character, and it was valiant the way she didn’t leave a vampire behind to his fate!
Even if the decision was likely to kill her!The storyline in this was alright, although it reminded me quite a bit of ‘The Immortal Rules’, which is probably in part because I found the pace in both of them quite slow.
Although I think if I was picking sides I’d say that this was slightly better.There was a little bit of romance, and I didn’t dislike it, even if it was a little unexpected!The ending to this was okay, and it wasn’t too cliff-hanger-y.
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI freaking loved this book!
I am going to buy this for sure!
I haven't read a vampire book such as this one yet.
He had been bitten and strapped to a bed, he was also in a room with a very old/young vampire named Gavriel.
They were doing an online story about vampires and wanted to go to Coldtown to be changed into vamps.
They were going to record all of this for everyone to see as well.
I would recommend to anyone that loves vampire stories and wants to read something a little different.
“Every hero is the villain of his own story.” I made it my job to read every Holly Black book on the face of this earth. And what could be better than Holly Black and Vampires? damn, this book was good. I say this a lot but this was so incredibly different!Vampires and modern technology. I mean imagine sitting in the comfort of your home and watching shows about Vampire hunters, Vampire wannabes and Vampires trying to lure you to the dark side. Crazy right? Truthfully, I really missed Vampire b
I made it my job to read every Holly Black book on the face of this earth.
And what could be better than Holly Black and Vampires?
Truthfully, I really missed Vampire books.
and the morbid quotes at the beginning of each chapter (yes I know what you’re thinking)I really liked Tana.
I loved how she managed to be a complete badass throughout the entire book.
Including saving a Vampire which confused me a whole lot.
People liked pretty things.
He was so weird when he became a Vampire.
Aside from how weird everyone was I pretty much enjoyed the book.
*4.5 stars*Ah, this book was so great! I really really thoroughly enjoyed it! It's like a zombie apocalypse but with vampires and I looooved it!! The main character Tana was so badass, but I really wish there was like an epilogue or something! Still, really loved this book and it was great to read about vampires again, it's been too long!
It's rare that I come across a vampire book that I so thoroughly enjoy.
It was such an interesting take on vampires, quite unlike any other book I've read with them.
The world building was fantastic and I just loved the whole idea of the book.
And as usual, Black brings to life characters that you can't help but fall completely in love with.
The main character Tana is gutsy and doesn't let anything get in her way and I just adore her.
What is there to say about him other than he is officially my favourite and I love him to pieces.
The Coldest Girl in Coldtown is a unique and utterly fantastic take on vampires, with haunting and beautiful prose + a one-of-a-kind story.
Easily a new favorite book of all-time!Let's go ahead and address the elephant in the room: vampires?
But luckily, The Coldest Girl in Coldtown gives vampires a fresh and original spin - it's unlike anything I've ever read.
I have never read a book like The Coldest Girl in Coldtown, but oh man, I adore this book to pieces.
But trust me, The Coldest Girl in Coldtown is an absolute must-read - I cannot even stress that enough!
I haven't read a lot of vampire books, but this is completely different to what I've tried.
But seriously, if you're dubious about vampires but LOVE epic world-building, then this is for you.
Like I want to go write something epic and urban fantasy!
Or I want to make my own writing worlds strong and more detailed.
It wasn't until the end of the book where it told how Gav had been so brutally tortured and that's what broke his mind, that I GOT why he was a bit weird.
I wasn't sure what you'd like, so there's a bit of everything.”   (hide spoiler)]
However, every time I pick up a book of hers, I find myself annoyed with at least one of the characters; usually it's the lead female or one of the "sidekicks." Out of the five books I've read from this author, I've always found myself drawn more to the lead males than the females every single time, and it has nothing to do with their sex appeal.
In some way, I feel like I'm doing a disservice to Black's kick-ass style of writing by not rating higher.
If you're new to Holly Black and would like to try out her writing, I'd recommend to start with her Curse Workers trilogy.
not terrible, just boring. i've been "currently reading" it (ha) for 2 months and i just...never want to pick it up.so...DNF at a little over 50%
I LOVED this book!
I listened to the audiobook and the narrator did an amazing job.
There isn't much new or fresh in the way of vampire lore here, but I thought it was an exceptionally well done vampire story.
I loved Black's exquisite writing and excellent characterisation, which gave the story a feel of both modern and gothic decadence and decline.
For me, it struck exactly the right balance.I see that my GR friends are a bit divided on this one.
I think if you are someone who really likes vampire books, you will enjoy this.
It's an excellent addition to the genre.
"If she was going to die, she might as well die sarcastic.  She'd seen a lot of old movies, and that was definitely the way to go out."  Every time I think I'm done with vampire books, my favorite authors pull me back in with their own twist on this paranormal creature.  Unlike The Immortal Rules, which I've seen this book compared to on occasion, The Coldest Girl in Coldtown occurs in a more present-day setting, not years from now when the vampire epidemic has already reduced the human popula
Unlike The Immortal Rules, which I've seen this book compared to on occasion, The Coldest Girl in Coldtown occurs in a more present-day setting, not years from now when the vampire epidemic has already reduced the human population to nothing.
Humans must also take extra precaution after nightfall because all of the usual vampire stigmas are present in this novel: sunlight is a no-no, holy water and stakes will kill them, and, of course, they vant to suck your blooooood.Anyway, I received a review copy from the publisher, but after enjoying the Curse Workers series on audio so much, I decided to download the audiobook for The Coldest Girl in Coldtown.
Nose Graze — Young Adult book reviewsThe Coldest Girl in Coldtown is haunted and addictingly disturbing! This book starts off with a bang, and I promise it's a sign of what's to follow. It's dark, gruesome, and gory. After that, I'll admit that it took me a little while to get fully into the story, but once I did, OH MY WORD!!!"They'll drink up the whole world if we let them."Page 92  The Coldest Girl in Coldtown  takes on an insanely horrifying vibe. There's lots and lots of blood, brutal deat
Nose Graze — Young Adult book reviewsThe Coldest Girl in Coldtown is haunted and addictingly disturbing!
Things just get more and more twisted, dark, and terrifying, until I couldn't look away.
The Coldest Girl in Coldtown is all kinds of twisted, with bloodbaths, murders, and no happily ever afters.
There are VAMPIRES out there so there will be many deaths and they will be brutal as hell.There's also a really unexpected (or expected, however you look at it) romance that develops, that had me HOOKED!
I'll admit that I haven't read a ton of vampire books, but this one was so different from everything I thought to expect in one..
there is a kinda hunger games element to the story, everything that happens in Coldtown is televised and this is given as a reason as to why some humans want to visit the Coldtowns.It's a weird society where people actually long to become a vampire.
Since the book was almost entirely focused on Tana, the chapters from other characters POV drew me out of the story a bit, especially those that looked at the past.
especially if it has my favorite characters which was Jameson I really would've loved if he had a bigger part it this story.
'We all wind up drawn to what we’re afraid of, drawn to try to find a way to make ourselves safe from a thing by crawling inside of it, by loving it,  by becoming it.'Holly Black has never, ever failed to sweep me off my feet with her good writing and originality.
This book is a vampire story mashed up with dystopia with a touch of post-apolcalyptic feel to it.
A shackled vampire, Gavriel.Tana freed the two guys (yes, she freed a blood-sucking corpse!) and escaped a close call from the group of vampire.
that is disturbing.However if I look past the dullness, the flashbacks and the bleak romance I can safely say that it's still a good book with a lot of potential.
Now let me tell you the things that drove me nuts: In the story Tana her travels with her ex-boyfriend who mistreated her in a way that completely turned me off from this book.
A boyfriend who was "faithful" but liked to play games with Tana and see how far he could go with another person (with boys & girls) that I found revolting.
It felt useless and not necessary, it played no real part in having to acknowledge that a character is in love with a boy but may think that the reason the boy doesn't like her is because she wasn't born a girl.
Tana lives in a world where all humans know about vampires.
There are quarantined areas in her world called Coldtowns, where vampires and humans can live a regular life.
If a vampire bites a human and drinks their blood, but stops right before they die, the human becomes Cold.
But if you drink the blood when you're Cold, you become a vampire.
Although some parts were interesting, I found a few areas slow paced, in this book.
When I found out about her relationship with Aidan and what they did at parties...I was disgusted.
But there are interesting parts in this book that I enjoyed.
A pretty good, dark and gory vampire read. I wished I had a better epilogue, but still recommend it.
