https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/581811.Valley_of_the_Dolls
The cake is delicious, the drugs are great, the cunnilingus is stellar, and it's all totally worth the terrible sacrifices you've made to arrive here today, despite the fact that you are clearly about to vomit yet again into the enormous pool.If you are one of the many unfortunate shlumps who will never become a celebrity, reading this incredible work of American literature is the closest you'll probably ever get to this kind of experience.
I returned to my space age bachelor pad, switched on my lava lamp, reclined on my La-Z-Boy (late 1970s Magic Fingers model), mixed a bright puce cocktail made out of three parts flamingos and ten parts vermouth with amusing parasols stuffed in the tall tall glass, then I threw on that cd where some genius put modern beats to Gregorian chants, and with my ultramarine-dyed and topiaried poodle named Gregoire gazing raptly up at me I read up to page 100 and stopped.Hmm, I thought, this damn book really is the Encyclopedia of Show Biz Cliches, and the Bible of Looksism (if you ain't got looks, you ism worth bothering about).
I'll kill her, that little bitch!"Actually there a lot of other parallels: the themes of reinvention through false identities, focuses on the American dream of success (note that it's becoming a stinking rich capitalist for men and a famous actress/model for women), and plots that hinge on characters doing stupid shit because of LOVE.But the similarity that really jumped out at me was how both novels exploit our obsession with wealth (and fame) by luxuriating in its excesses, and then reassure us about our lack of these things by depicting its wealthy (and famous) main characters as incredibly miserable and/or terrible people.Hey don't be fooled by the persona.
Wow, WHAT a read!
I can definitely see why this novel has been hailed an all-time pop culture classic!
I loved absolutely every minute of this book and I wish I could find more contemporary novels with the vim, wit, and insight that this book offered!
(Funny how my all-time favs this year have been classics rather than contemporaries, eh?) I highly recommend this book to all women, particularly those "coming of age" in their 20s-30s.
You'll find something to love, empathize with and root for in all of these women!FOLLOW ME AT: The Navi Review Blog | Twitter | Instagram
Read this back in the 70's. My teenage self thought it was so scandalous!!

Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestYou might know me as Nenia Campbell, but my full title is Queen of Literary Trash, Protector of Out-of-Print Gems, Khaleesi of Bodice Rippers, Mother of Smut, the Unrepentant, Breaker of Convention, Lady of Take Your Misogyny and F*ck It. So obviously when the Goodreads blurb for this book advertises VALLEY OF THE DOLLS as an " addictively entertaining trash classic," you know I just have to read it.  For several days, the adventures of Nee
VALLEY OF THE DOLLS seems like trash because on the surface it's about several young women who become raging successes but can't deal with Hollywood and New York's respective brands of sleaze and pressure, so they turn to drugs to ease the burden and let them sleep at night.
It's like an inverse of the manic pixie dream girl trope - except that the woman is still the medium through which the man's narrative journey is developed and carried, even when this trope is turned on its head.
Contrary to my expectations, I ate it up.Unfolding over twenty years beginning September 1945, the story begins with Anne Welles arriving in New York City.
He hires the turnip.Anne finds a brownstone and befriends a seventeen year old named Ethel Agnes O'Neill (Neely) who lives across the hall.
Anne is torn between marriage to Allen and her attraction to Lyon, who asks for nothing and promises nothing.
I never considered abandoning it before finding out what happened to Anne, Neely and Jennifer.
It's just fabulously trashtastic but to me the overriding focus of this book is on sexual politics and the glaring disparity there is between men and women.
And to me this book just screams that the women somehow *think* they are liberated but then when they are so easily tossed aside they are still shackled to the idea that they need the man, the marriage.
I liked how melodramatic this horrible written novel was.
I stayed up for nights reading this book.Errrr.........I'm very embarrassed but I'll give this a five, for enjoying it 100% percent , all the way to the sleazy cliche oversexed men to the dull cliche girls.
Not for the literary stand -point of the novel because we all know there isn't any in this book.
Just for a good time, this novel is like the boyfriend with the hot face who can't hold a conversation to save his life.
So, it was interesting to read a book that so many people seem to like and that seemed to have been an inspiration source for other female writers.And, the book turned out to be quite good, in the kind of depressing way when you read something that you know will not end on a happy note.
Anne, Neely, and Jennifer, they all reach success in their own way, but that doesn't mean that their life will be happy and unhappiness in love, addiction to pills and illness mark their lives.
This classic tells of the darker side of the entertainment lifestyle and still carries a positive note throughout. Definitely an amazing book. :)
Zzzzzzzzzz.....Valley of the Dulls is more like it. One hundred pages was all I could stand of endless cheesy dialogue between a bunch of sleazy people with no personalities. Watch the movie instead. At least it's bad enough to be entertaining.
Susann had no idea how to write a book.
Susann's shallowness and immaturity (you get the impression a 14-year-old wrote this) is rampant throughout the book.
And then everyone else is sad for about a half page, then they get on with their tragic lives.The greatest line from the movie actually comes straight out of the book.
It is a horrible book, and if you love the movie, you will see that the film makers were actually trying to transend their source material.
If I ever taught a writing class, this book would be on the reading list.
It is certainly bleak but the way the book is written with such clinical passion (yes I know - an oxymoron but apt) suggests Susann may have had first hand experience in the scene.
The story could easily have fallen into melodrama but Susann is careful to make the reader feel very much like they are looking in, you cant sympathise with Anne, Jennifer or Neely, you can only examine them and feel sorry for them - they are all naive and deeply flawed.
Anne and her friends Neely and Jennifer are just three girls trying to make it in '40s New York.
Until, of course, the last two pages, because somehow Susann doesn't want me to like her book at all.
In a way, it seems like she is shaming women for rejecting stability and the ideals of life for a woman by showing its dire consequences.The reason this book fails ultimately is because of its ending.
If you're looking for a good, enjoyable read on this subject, pick either of these two books.
Starting this book was like going to the opening of a new nightclub.Everything is glitzy and glamorous, everyone is happy and smiling, there is a VERY attractive barman helping you to the most delicious drinks all night. Your new red stilettos get loads of complements and you dance the night away with energy to spare.Finishing this book was like seeing this same nightclub the next morning. The air is stale and smells slightly of vomit, the tables are sticky with spilled drinks, the carpet is full of cigarette burns and the barman actually has bad teeth and a lazy eye.
I read this in high school...
goodness knows why.
This has got to be one of the most depressing books I've ever read.
Unfortunately I can't even really say it presents women in a bad light or unfairly, because I still know women like this.
I think this novel is a kind of anti-feminist classic; a kind of cautionary tale that maybe all teen girls should read so they don't ever grow up to be mindless bimbos who - despite their brains and talent and success and friendships with other women - STILL define themselves and their happiness entirely through the eyes and desires of men.
“Everyone has an identity. One of their own, and one for show.”
All the characters act like they’re 12 year olds on crack, they all whined and complained about everything, throwing tantrums when they don’t get what they want, the women think they can only be happy when they’re married and have a man supporting them or when they’re thin, young, and famous.
That one time Lyon asked Anne to come back to NY with him but Anne wanted to stay because her friend, Helen needed her, Lyon basically just left and sulked about it because hell no, Anne can’t have friends other than him and he’s more important than any of her friends anyway and if Anne chose to stay and help her friends, then Anne doesn’t love him.
Back cover proclaimed that it was brilliant.
Was in fact rubbish.
Lyon Burke is basically a cardboard cutout, yet apparently everyone's in love with him.
The narrative is bad enough to be bad, but not bad enough to be funny.
You spend pretty much the first half of the book wondering when something actually interesting is going to happen, and then when it does, you've lost any and all interest in the people that things are happening to.
The only character I liked was Helen.
On and on and on and on and yeah.
Okay for nights when you can't sleep, I guess.
Oh, Geez. I don't even know what to say about this one. It was like watching an extra juicy episode of Keeping Up With The Kardashians. It doesn't give you a lot of reasons to like it... and yet you can't look away. The melodrama was real.Also, I wanna give a quick FU to all the Lyon Burkes out there in real life.
Valley of the Dolls wouldn't be what it is if it wasn't set in 1940s-60s, or if it didn't have a hilarious cat fight in a ladies' room, self-destructive women popping pills in all the colors of the rainbow, dreams crashing and burning, struggles with fame and expectations concerning private and professional lives, loads of vodka and champagne, and men who are far from dreamy Fabios.Girly pulp that doesn't make you want to vomit, but to have a cocktail or two and eat chocolate until your head explodes.
It doesn't help when things like the wish to please and to be loved come into play for women like the three that this book is about.
It's an alarming story of how sometimes things just don't work out.
It's hard enough to figure out what it is you want from life, but this novel is proof that even when you know it, may that be love or a career, getting it is a whole different matter.
"There is no such thing as love, the way you talk about it.
You'll only find that kind of love in cheap movies and novels.
Reading Valley of the Dolls is akin to eating a pint of your favorite ice cream, in that it's wonderful and delicious down to the last bit, but it can come with a bit of a hangover if you start to think about what you just did.This is the story of Anne, Neely, and Jennifer, and their struggles to survive as women - women who want love, careers, a comfortable standard of living, etc., mostly in New York, but also in LA, and primarily in the stage and film businesses.
I was highly entertained by the book and the easy trashiness was somehow comforting, as it always is.
But I couldn't help actually reading the book whilst I was busy regaining balance in my chi or whatever.
It's an irritating habit of mine to analyze things that aren't meant to be taken that seriously.
So, while I was entertained by these various unhealthy relationships at times, in the end they were all a bit depressing and I wondered if even the characters were convinced by their actions.
This is a welcome Virago reissue of a 60s classic with a witty and irreverent introduction by Julie Burchill.Starting in 1945 this follows the careers, love lives and addictions of three girls in New York: a genius singing/dancing star, a beauty with no talent other than her amazing face and body, and the cool ice-queen who becomes the 'face' of TV cosmetic advertising.The characters are kind of cliched yet Susann makes them compelling, everyday and alien all at the same time; and the drama of their lives never stops.
wish I had read it sooner.The book starts in september 1945 with Anne moving from her home town to New York.
Anne is lovely and gentle and kind and through out the whole book that dosn't change.Neely is young and crazy with a lovely singing voice.
Neely starts off ok as a character but as she gets the things she wants in life she becomes quite demanding and very selfish.Jennifer is a bomb, The body every man wants to hold against him and every woman wants and it's her body that gets doors open.
Anne is the stable one through out the book the other two struggle and their back grounds hold them back a bit esp Jennifer.
Loved this story
Love, Scandal, Pills, Friendship...I'd say the first 3/4 of this book was the best.
lol(view spoiler)[ Anne and Neely are by far my favorite characters and I preferred following them over any of the other women.
I was totally drawn into Anne's relationship with Kevin and then falling in love with Lyon.
Its great that they found their way back to each other, but of course its terrible that it ended in Scandal.
All of these women feeling the need to take pills to numb themselves is something many people.
(hide spoiler)]
Enter endless debauchery!
I can see why people put up such a stink about Valley Of The Dolls when it was published.
The book makes me happy to not have fame.As an example of roman à clef, friends close to the author suspected that Susann wrote this book based her own experience, Ethel Merman, Judy Garland, Carol Landis, JFK, Monroe, Dean Martin etc.
The Neely character (thought to be based on Judy Garland) could be compared to Britney Spears.
It's super intense and you want to slap most of the characters and hug them at other times.
