https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102957.Preacher_Volume_6
In this latest brilliantly blasphemous installment of Preacher, you’ll find another hefty dose of Garth Ennis gold as he deftly advances the God vs Jesse vs Saint of Killers vs The Grail main story arc and also manages to hit a home run with a much anticipated backstory that is entertaining as hell. Yes, there is much for fans of the series to fawn over starting with One Man’s War. This terrific piece recounts, at long last, the origin of Herr Starr, the Grail’s current “All Father” and relentle
In this latest brilliantly blasphemous installment of Preacher, you’ll find another hefty dose of Garth Ennis gold as he deftly advances the God vs Jesse vs Saint of Killers vs The Grail main story arc and also manages to hit a home run with a much anticipated backstory that is entertaining as hell.
GRIPES:Rarely have I had much to complain about during the first 1000 pages of the Preacher series, but this volume did include some plot threads that I wish Ennis would have either tied off or actually snipped.
However, the majority of this volume is terrific and should not be missed by fans of the series.
I really loved book 1 in the Preacher series and found that ever since then my enjoyment of each successive graphic novel has been declining, to the point where I stopped thinking of them as a good investment of £13.99.
Graphic novels are expensive things - £13.99 is a lot for something I can read in a day.
Perhaps I'm just becoming used to the rather silly vibe that the introduction of Herr Starr and the Grail organisation ushered in.Anyway ...
it's all fun and games til somebody loses an eye.
3.5 stars - This one had some on/off moments for me.
Highlights were Herr Starr's origin story and the big battle in Monument Valley, where we see the return of the Saint of Killers.
Also, the redneck cannibals Herr Starr runs into was pure Preacher crazytown shenanigans.
I'm not quite sure how that is tying into the big picture?
Overall, I think this might be my least-favorite volume.
My favorite Preacher moments are by far when it gets really weird and goes into bizarro land.
This one had a few of those moments, but I wanted more of them.
Awww, some really awesome scenes in this one.
Now I know how Jesse lost an eye, and I really didn't see that coming.I mean, sure, a nuclear blast is dangerous...
but to have one put out his eye???
Shameful.
Seriously.
Someone could sue.Great action, great weirdness, and a little landscape remodeling.
Or two landscape remodelings, I ought to say.
A comic about landscape remodeling.
Sure.
:)Seriously, though, the in-between scenes of Fox News correspondents was soooo right.
"But what about all the indians that were living there?" "They ought to be used to it by now." "What?" Yikes.
Once you get this far along in the series, it's fairly easy to predict that when a character named Mr. Dicks is introduced, (view spoiler)[he's only going to last a couple of pages. (hide spoiler)] Bwa-ha-ha-ha!
A great addition to one of the greatest comic series of all time!
Preacher Jesse Custer, because of very strange circumstances spends this series not only searching for God, but hoping to call God to task for what he feels is wrong with people and the world they live in.
Why is there so much evil in the world when the God most of us have been raised to believe in should be able to stop it?Along the way, Jesse also shows us about love, true, deep love.
How do two people who should never cross paths not only meet, but fall in love and find each other again and again when it seems the world is conspiring against them?
But also how true familial love finds a way.
If Preacher was a TV series, then the preview for the events here would have dramatic music and the voiceover would ominously say something like, “This is where everything changes.” The voodoo encounter with the giant snake in New Orleans *shudder* gave Jesse some info from the Genesis entity that bonded to him, but he needs more if he’s going to track down God. The trio heads to Monument Valley in Utah so Jesse can score some peyote to go on a desert vision quest to see if he can get more clues as to the Good Lord‘s whereabouts.Unfortunately, Herr Starr has figured out where Jesse is going and has used the Grail’s political influence to have the U.S. Army waiting for him, and the Saint of Killers is on the way to get Jesse to fulfill the bargain they struck in Proud Americans.
Starr's meteoric rise to power is showcased in an extensive flash back, giving the reader a chance to see how this man turned out so ruthless.To say that a lot happens here would be an understatement.
While Ennis throws quite a bit at the reader, the story still moves along at a brisk pace.
If anything, this installment has me wanting to move on to the next volume more than any previous entry.I wonder if Arseface's rise to fame and fortune as the front man of a grunge style band is some sort of commentary on Ennis' part regarding the state of rock in the 90s.
Filled with blasphemy of all sorts and a handful of action and violence, War in the Sun delivers yet a satisfying chapter in Preacher.
It felt like one explosive season finale.This book proves that the Saint of Killers is literally a one man army, with possibly only Jesse Custer as the one who could beat him and Herr Starr as a literal prick/dickhead and Arseface as a rock star.
Starr's origin story was told as well and it was dark and very twisted!What I still don't buy is the love triangle between Cass, Tulip and Jesse.
I hope this is resolved asap.
Review in Volume 9.
Also like ...pick a side re: human rights stuff because you can't have some douchebag who is clearly a far-right nutjob presented as being an asshole in one issue but then have your main characters spouting half the same shit an issue later but somehow it's okay this time?
And it's quite frankly exhausting trying to figure out if me and people like me are the butt of your jokes.Anyway, I totally don't remember how this series ends at all but I'd love to get back to the actual point of the whole thing.
What with hitting on his "best friend"'s girlfriend - repeatedly - last volume, and now turning it around/begging forgiveness/making grandiose promises...if I know anything about Ennis, he's going to enjoy the living fuck out of seeing how shit things turn when Cass inevitably blows it.
Ennis does a lot of things really well as a writer, and one of them is creating the quiet, tense buildup before an explosively violent action scene.
This one's no slouch either - by the time shit flies fanwards, we're practically drooling for it.
It's like plot and character development are necessary burdens for Ennis' great love of thinking up nutty situations.
Now that is more like it!Holy intense last half, Batman! As Cass would say, JAYSIS!

Oh what a sinful delight !
Vuelve a ser brutal de nuevo!!
There is a lot of talk in this volume about trying to do the right thing, attempting to choose the good and helping make a difference.
Cassidy, with his jaded mindset, isn’t sure whether it’s possible to exact such drastic changes, but he’s willing to concentrate on doing the right thing from now on.
(There’s an implication that he’s trying to make up for all the bad he’s done in the past by standing by Jesse and helping him fulfill his goals.)Speaking of Cassidy, I’m not sure I like where Ennis is taking the character.
I don't know what's coming (aside from one unfortunate spoiler), but I can't imagine it being more spectacular again.On the other hand, I figured the showdown at Masada could not be topped either, and while the Monument Valley clash is a different beast, it does not underwhelm.
It helps that "One Man's War" came just before this in the slightly different order I'm following, because it really helps you to get into Starr's mindset, to the point where you're almost sure he can't lose.I'm slightly less positive about the Cassidy and Tulip material, mostly because I don't really know where Ennis is going with that.
He could have gone a lot of ways with the Monument Valley climax, and I think this is one of the more surprising ones.
Hacia tiempo que no os reseñaba Predicador y es que he estado 3 meses sin apenas comprar tebeos y al llevarme los 3 tomos, y como los estoy ordenando provisionalmente de derecha a izquierda en vez de en su orden natural, al ir a por el tomo IV, me he llevado el VI, que es el que estaba en el lugar que no le correspondía.
Desde su juventud en las fuerzas anti terroristas alemanas, hasta el momento en que monta un pifostio de cojones para capturar a Jesse y destruir al Santo de los Asesinos.Sigue siendo una serie tremendamente buena, bestia, animal, bruta pero de alguna manera, cercana.
In it's own weird way of storytelling, I fell like Garth Ennis and company prepares me for something that would eventually happen one day.
I mean, yea sure, it's not highly unlikely right?
Maybe telling people to think outside the box in terms of religious views and stuff like that, I don't know.
It's brilliant, probably one of the best comic book titles ever written.
I get more and more excited in seeing how this ends though.
Here's to hoping that it ends on a high note.
Then he escalates the war against Jesse Custer, ending with a massive conflict in Monument Valley that features the Saint of Killers against a tank brigade and a nuke.The aftermath of that battle changes everything, from Starr's destructive mania against Custer, to Tulip's devastation and hooking up with Cassidy, to Jesse discovering that's happened.
That leads in naturally to the main part of this book, wherein Starr pulls out all the stops to get hold of Jesse and do away with the Saint of Killers, with the help of the Grail's paramilitary, a US Army tank brigade, and a stealth bomber.
This volume had it all!
Cannibals, nuclear explosions, Butt-Fairies & Jesse dying, only to find out chapters later that he survived but now he's missing an eye!
I loved how it was not just all action, or all sex, or all horror.
Its had a great mixture of everything, including Jesse eating out Tulip on the train!
HeheeI know i may sound crazy, but i loved it when Tulip was shooting off heads and body parts.
My heart dropped when Cassidy screwed Jesse over to have his chance with Tulip!
Im left with too many questions, and the only cure is volume 7!
My favorite back-story after Jody is that of Herr Starr.
It's a shame it ended up in this weak book 6 compilation, set in the Monument Valley desert.
Taken individually, Starr's back story gets 5 (lower case) stars.
However, the rest of this volume actually gets an astoundingly low 2 stars for a Preacher, averaging 3 for book 6.
Mostly great, as usual.
Hilarious, wrong, wacky, bizarre, disturbing, strangely touching, and just plain awesome.
(I actually laughed like I was with an old friend when Jesse said to Cass at one point, "God doesn't stand a chance.") My only problem is a minor one, but it was there nonetheless: some of the time/space passages near the end were a little confusing.
S P O I L E R S Everything from the atomic blast onward were just...hard to follow.
Just how the heck did Herr Starr wind up in that fallout shelter?
WHERE was that fallout shelter?
And just what the heck is going on with Arseface?
So, I've burned through the first six volumes of this series and gone back to jack up my rating to a four star.
I'm not sure if it deserves it.
A love letter to American violence.
Lots of blasphemy, cannibalism, castration, and faces getting blown off and horribly deformed.
Lots of big skies and fire and highways and the great cities of the US: New York, New Orleans, San Francisco.
Lots of guns, obviously.
A fair amount of love and sex and friendship.
Even some dude who shot the devil and froze over hell.I don't really think it deserves four stars, but goddamn it it took'em.
This volume accounts for Starr's past and rise to power.
Shows he's basically insane and has no understanding of social graces.
Cassidy is a dick but tries not to be.
Jesse is oblivious.
Saint of Killers has a massive showdown and generally proves he's a badass.
Some time passes and our heros are separated, Jesse gets big revelation at the end.
Starr gets in a sticky situation.Dillon is the primary artist, but the Starr backstory is done by someone else (can't remember now and I don't have it in front of me) but was done well.
Good writing as always.
By far one of the most exciting Preacher books. My heartbeat literally got faster. There was so much tension. Amazing blend of action and personal affairs. Garth Ennis is just so talented at creating characters that literally pop off the page. Somewhere there really is a Jesse Custer who just fainted wondering WTF... and I have to go find the next damn issue to find out what happens! I'm a Preacher addict.
O especial "o Homem da Guerra" segue o padrão de especial da série: desinteressante, lento e desnecessário.O restante das histórias, seguem a cronologia principal de Preacher. Essas sim valem a pena. A trama está cada vez mais complexa. Garth Ennis entende de conflito narrativo. Os personagens tem suas motivações e Jesse finalmente faz uma descoberta cruel.Cronologia principal: tudo está em seu devido lugar.Especial: eu preferia ter ido ver o filme do pelé.
Wow, Garth obviously tossed his index cards into the wind with this one. Testing the limits of love, lust, Old West Mythology, sunscreen, and desert army tactics, the plot throws up its hands and everything just falls apart. I loved it! I especially loved the Hills Have Eyes subplot featuring shackled Herr Starr minus one limb, having to provide gluteal cleft hygiene for a mutant.
