https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77595.The_Black_Mountain
An essential for all Nero Wolfe fans. Wolfe's best friend the restauranteur Marko Vukic is murdered, and Wolfe must leave not only his brownstone but the U.S.A. itself in order to catch the killer. He and Archie journey to Montenegro, Wolfe and Marko's native land, and it's a treat to see Wolfe hiking in the mountains with a knife taped to his leg. Also, this mystery presents an interesting formal problem. Not "whodunit"--we know the identity of the murderer--but a "how-do-it": how to get the "who" back into the United states for a murder trial.
His faithful sidekick Archie Goodwin goes with him posing as his son.The book has more serious undertones than a typical Nero Wolfe story as the majority of it is spent in Montenegro which according to How Rex Stout saw it was not a nice place - I really have no idea whether it was really as bad.
One of the few books in the series where the laziest genius detective had to do his own legwork gets 3.5 stars.
Attenzione Attenzione: Nero Wolfe è uscito di casa!!!! Un nuovo giallo, un delitto di un caro amico portano questa volta il famigerato Wolfe a lasciare la sua abitazione e a viaggiare fra taxi, aerei, scarpinando a piedi per tutto il Montenegro. Poco credibile che una persona della sua stazza, che non è facile alle passeggiate fuori casa, riesca a muoversi con tale agilità su montagne impervie, anche se conosciute a menadito perché luoghi della sua infanzia. Certo è che questa montagna di grasso in pigiama giallo e copriletto di seta nero fa sempre piacere incontrarla!
I honestly couldn’t get on board with the concept of Nero Wolfe traipsing about Europe. He won’t even leave his brownstone but for extremely extenuating circumstances - just too much of a leap for me.
Ho una passione per Nero Wolfe e Archie Goodwin, sono riuscita a rintracciare tutti i titoli (me ne mancano solo 3), perlopiù in vecchissime edizioni del giallo mondadori. E' talmente riposante: in genere non ci sono quasi mai situazioni di suspence, tranne la risoluzione finale nello studio di NW; AG fa la vita dello scapolone brillante; le trame sono perfette e quasi mai ripetitive. Solo alcuni volumi sono tirati via, ma sospetto che la traduzione e l'editing degli anni '50-'60 abbiano le loro colpe.
This is the most atypical of all the Nero Wolfe books as Wolfe not only leaves the house for an extended period of time but crosses the ocean in search of revenge.
With Archie in tow, they hike the mountains of the rough and lawless country to search for the killers and Wolfe actually holds up very well under terrific physical effort.....his lust for revenge keeps him going although he may be stronger than we are led to believe in all the other books.
A very different Nero Wolfe lives in the pages of this book and we get a rather personal look at the man himself.
The most exciting adventure Nero and Archie have ever had!I listened to this story again March 30 and 31st of 2016. Nero goes home to the place he was born and Archie pretends to be his son to catch a killer and bring him back to NY and justice.
My first Nero Wolfe and I was a bit worried about joining the series at number 24, but I need not have been. I read it primarily because I was cycling in Montenegro where the novel is set. It’s great fun. Though a crime novel, that has been a little dated in the stereotypical images of the locals as seen in the 1950s, it shouldn’t be taken seriously.
Having created a fully formed world for Nero Wolfe from the very first novel, Stout was left with something of a paradox.
After this, the Nero Wolfe series ossified entirely into its classic form, freed of the baggage of the earlier period, and these characters and their former importance almost vanish from our view.
Being so entirely out of step with the rest of the series is, in some ways, a virtue since it illustrates how fortunate we are that Wolfe preferred the confines of his Brownstone.
This was a real treat to get to know more of the man himself in his birth land. Also, picturing one ton Wolfe trekking over a mountain with a knife strapped to his leg was well worth it! Though this story was darker than some of the mysteries, it was enjoyable to listen to it.
This gets four stars against all other mysteries, but only three in the Rex Stout pantheon. Nero just isn't as delightful out of doors, which is almost all of this book. Still a fun read, though, and Archie is at his best.
Considering the fact that they believed there was always hope, if not for Montenegrins of that time, but for their children, is how Mr Stout "saw the future." I took the time to read up on Montenegro and it did reach full independence in 2006.
They waited centuries but Montenegro finally became it's own country, under no one's rule.The Nero Wolfe/Archie Goodwin story was a little far-fetched, considering all the possible things that could've gone wrong, but it was still fun to hear Archie Goodwin's quips, even in the most dire circumstances.
Kudos to Rex Stout for grappling with the Poirot Problem: What do you do when your series detective, to whom you whimsically gave an exotic foreign background, becomes so popular that fans demand to know about his past?
Stout tops her by killing off Nero Wolfe's oldest friend, forcing the sedentary sleuth not just out of his house but onto a plane to Montenegro.This has to be the oddest book in the Wolfe/Goodwin series.
Nero Wolfe, the legendary couch potato, transformed to a mountain goat?
I enjoyed The Black Mountain, and I'd love to ask Rex Stout how he came to write it, but I'll be happy to rejoin Wolfe and Goodwin in Manhattan.
The mystery is secondary.
Archie is secondary.
Stout knew his character well.
Just throwing some lines in showing Wolfe spending 18 hours at One Police Plaza going over notes and research, moves the secondary characters and the knowing reader much more than any tear could.
Paperless Wolfe and Archie have to find their way through agents of Fascist Tito, Communist Stalin and a highly questionable revolutionary underground/guerilla freedom movement that his daughter was sending money to.
While it doesn't work well as a mystery; It does, however work quite well as a fish out of water journey and character study.
This is a rare opportunity to observe Nero Wolfe out of his element.
Nero's closest friend (Marko) and owner of Rusterman's, his favorite restaurant is murdered.
Wolfe & Archie fly to Yugoslavia in search of the killer.
YES...Nero leaves his Brownstone to solve a murder.
This is a first for Nero with Archie by his side of course.
I listened to this (and I've read the book) on CD masterfully narrated/performed by Michael Prichard.
If you haven't listened to Nero Wolfe on CD by this artist please stop depriving yourself of a real treat.I make no apologies for being a Nero Wolfe fan...addict.
The least typical book in the entire 40something-year Nero Wolfe series. Wolfe's oldest friend, who is also a covert money man for a Montenegro independence group in Tito-era Yugoslavia, is murdered, which compels Wolfe to not only leave the office, but covertly head back to his native soil to bring the murderer to the States for justice. It's a good read with nice character interplay, but definitely shouldn't be the first Wolfe book you read. A one-off change-of-pace story only works the way it should if a reader is already familiar with the series dynamic.
This is a fun Nero Wolfe book, not your standard New York sleuthfest. I most adore the Wolfe books where they get into personal stuff, and here we are! Back in Wolfe's native country, in what we must now call the former Yugoslavia. This book was written before much political reshuffling, of course. And there is a crime to solve, naturally. But the idea of Archie posing as Wolfe's son is endlessly fun and has generated vast theorizing in the fan community.
Rex Stout is possibly the best mystery writer ever, and again, the mysteries themselves are barely passable. But the characters of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin are fantastic. They are the best tune out for the weekend books I have ever had my hands on. And I have tuned out for many weekends. Read at least three. If you don't want to go on from there, well fine, be that way.
An entry in this long running series with a very different flavor. Nothing could induce this detective to leave home except the death of his oldest and dearest friend. I suspect the author had a great deal of fun writing this particular book. I particularly enjoyed the word play in the role reversals, though I think this is something only a long time series reader would notice.
I love a good Nero Wolfe mystery, and this certainly fits the bill.
I would say as well the intrigue between the secret police of Tito, the Montenegrin characters that are meet, and finally the true big bad (view spoiler)[the Soviet secret police or maybe even the Albanians; Rex Stout never really elaborates on who they actually are or worked for just they have live in an old Roman Fort from the days of Alexander the Great (hide spoiler)] who gave the mistaken order to kill Marko when all the true killers needed to do was observe and figure out the intentions of the movement.
Very satisfactory, as Nero Wolfe might say.Old relationships are broken after the murder of Wolfe's best friend, Marko Vukcic.
But Wolfe's essential relationship to integrity remains intact even as he searches for the killer.
The mind boggles at the description of him climbing mountains and navigating narrow cliffside ledges but Stout at least has him footsore.
For good measure there's a taste of Cold War morality, but in Wolfe's hands it's actually a morality that fits all times: a refusal to accept "the intolerable doctrine that man's sole responsibility is to his ego.
This is the first Nero Wolfe book I have read so I don't have all the background, but I have picked up on the fact that he rarely/never leaves the safe walls of his brownstone in NYC.
So this book that I chose due to its setting in Montenegro is quite different than most of the books in the series.
I liked the book, but didn't love it.
The parts I enjoyed most were the discussions of the dark, shady world created by Tito in what was then Yugoslavia.
The book was a gritty foray into that world and I liked it.
I had never read a Nero Wolf mystery, just watched or listened to them.
Although hard to picture Wolf roughing it, the mystery was fun.
The mystery of a violent partisan war mixed with the murder of a restauranteur in New York was very clever, it worked well.The integrity, sense of justice, of legality, of propriety that are part of Wolf's character, receive a development and revealing that are illuminating for the additional works I have seen.Somehow, it was still stand out as an oddity compared to the other pictures I have from reading of Nero Wolf as a very rotund, nearly immobile detective very dependent on Archie.


I'm sure Mr. Stout was desperate to get Nero Wolfe and Archie out of the house and write something completely different and he did it acceptably.
The problems with that are glaring; not in the least, it was like reading about completely different characters.
The murder of Marco was genius in its own device to get the show on the road, as it were.
And the preliminary investigation was also crafted with believability.
It's a nice story with characters familiar to us, so it's worth the read as part of the grand story.
Odd entry circa 1954 in the tales of Nero Wolfe, detective.
He is usually ensconced in his Manhattan brownstone with his able bodied staff, but this time he and his aide de camp Archie travel to Montenegro to discover who murdered Wolfe's good friend and restauranteur Malko Vukcic.
Another tragedy of a personal connection to Wolfe's world occurs, as well, which spurs him to get ambulatory and scale mountains and travel by sea and carry weaponry.
It's more adventure story a la Ian Fleming or Graham Greene and it feels more like a strange re-boot for the character instead of the usual fare.
I am super torn on this.
On the one hand, I feel genuinely bad that Marko is murdered: by this point in the series, you feel like you know him, and it's a real loss.
I like that Wolfe is NOT a born American, in a way that matters to him.
I also like the Carla Lovchen is relevant again, and we find out what happened to her.
On the other hand, almost all of this book is out of the brownstone, in Europe; the politics is fairly simplistic; and Carla being murdered too feels a bit added on.
Wolfe is back in his dark and foreboding homeland of of Montenegro. Following the death of a close friend he is forced to undertake a journey for which he is ill prepared. Still, he speaks 7 languages and is accompanied by a particularly fierce and funny Archie Goodwin. As much a spy novel in some ways as a mystery this takes fans out of the New York brownstone and along mountain paths in a communist redoubt. Worthy entry in the series...
