https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1402668.The_Gatecrasher
I honestly don't think I could've disliked a character more than Fleur.I started this book with the hopes that it would be an interesting read - albeit light.
It dragged on and on and on for the very longest time, only to have Fleur get worse and worse in character, instead of better.
Madeleine Wickham made us hate this character the whole way through, and wouldn't even wrap up the story properly and just left us with two final pages of utter nonsense as...what?
I mean, I repeat, is this man stupid?Very frustrating story, and even more frustrating characters.
what an awful ending to a mediocre book with the most annoying characters
Published: 10/07/2007Author: Madeleine WickhamThis book was light hearted, fun, sweet and had a little bit of mystery in it.
Madeleine Wickham (Sophie Kinsella) doesn't disappoint with this book.
It is a must read for anyone who loves Sophie Kinsella books and anyone who loves romantic and rom-com books.
Fleur (the main character) has made her money and life out of crashing peoples funerals in order to work her way into the widows life to get them to spend all their money on her.
I quite liked the character of Fleur I thought that she was very intriguing as to how she managed to worm her way into these mens lives.
The premise is interesting enough: a woman who lives off widowers, hopping from one funeral to another with a little help from a couple of gay friends.
She thinks too many mean things of others and is inconsiderate; I sometimes wondered if Wickham simply forgot to present the more positive side of her.
The ending is abrupt too; she is about to leave her latest conquest to find the next widower and her change of mind is just not believable enough.
The ending is of course pleasing, but not satisfying at all because Wickham fails to make us believe that it is possible.
I picked this up so that I could have a "fluffy book" to read over the holidays, one that I could just pick up and read without doing much thinking.
It fit the bill.However I found it was very slow -- at one point, I picked it up and was surprised to find that I was half-way through, despite the plot not having picked up much at all.
I think the author was trying to do too many things at once, lay down too much character development and subplots -- and not very succinctly, frankly!
I was very pleased to find out that Madeleine Wickham was Sophie Kinsella, as I loved her books.
What pleased me even more was that Madeleine Wickham takes a darker, deeper look into her characters than her Sophie Kinsella books offer.
There is hilarious comedy, but there is also deep sorrow within this book.Fleur Daxeny picks up rich men at their wife's funeral.
She finds Richard Favour, and the story takes off from there.
Ms. Wickham delves into Fleur's psyche, as well as Richard's odd marriage with his now diseased wife.
The book moved me, even as Fleur grew more and more outrageous as the story continued.
3.5 starsThis was a pretty good story about a professional gold-digger who dupes wealthy widowers into falling in love with her before absconding with all the cash and gifts she can convince them to part with. The story rolled along quickly and kept me interested, but it was the characters I really liked. There was a really good mix of nice people and arseholes. I haven’t read much of Sophie kinsellas work, but I might have to dig out some more books by her.
True rating would be 1.5 stars--somewhere between "didn't like it" and "it was OK." When Madeleine Wickham morphed into Sophie Kinsella, apparently she acquired the ability to create characters with a few redeeming qualities to offset their character flaws (i.e., compulsive shopping).
When I started reading this I knew I was going to love it but I figured as it was chick-lit, it would be pretty predictable.
This book actually surprised me.
I was also really shocked that we didn't have a scene where Richard finds out about Fleur's real intentions, confronts her, they would fall out for a bit but then end up happy ever after when Fleur explains that she now loves him.
I was expecting this scene the entire book.
But the book ends and Fleur never has to explain herself.
I actually really liked that because I wasn't expecting it.
With her daughter involved and asking questions, about her past, Fleur's past, and being ready for a change.
I really like most of the characters in this book, with 5 kind of main characters and 3 important supporting characters.
Also, I think the background could have been worked into the story better, you would be going along on the story and suddenly there would be a chapter set in the past and it would give you insight on why a character was the way they were now.
Overall, I enjoyed the book and feel like I learned something about character development from it.
this was as fluffy as i expected (i read it while i was sick--perfect for passing the time without expending too much brainpower), but kind of a head scratcher.the titular gatecrasher is fleur, a charming 40-year-old redhead who crashes funerals to win the hearts of wealthy male attendees.
at first he's like, "yeah, i don't think so," so fleur starts looking for a new funeral to attend.
& while we hear plenty from every member of the family regarding how much they like fleur, when we are in fleur's head, all we hear is commentary about how richard hangs around too much & always wants to spend time with her, & phillipa is too emotionally needy, & gillian dresses badly, etc etc.
DNF - got to around half way and still hated the main character. Skipped to the end and felt glad that I did not waste my time forcing myself to read it. Sorry I did not enjoy it as much as her other books
Wickham gave all of her supporting characters good, solid and interesting backgrounds.
Wickham kept emphasizing on Fleur's kindness.
But, Fleur's attitude towards Richard's daughter, Phillipa, contradicted Wickham's own word.
It almost seems as if Wickham got tired of her own writing and gave up mid-paragraph.
Did Richard eventually got to know about Fleur's gold-digging schemes?
What happened between Zara and Fleur that made Fleur changed her mind entirely about leaving Richard for good?
Read this if you want to have a good, juicy time - This book has all the fun elements you will find in Sophie Kinsella's work.
I commend the author for penning a novel about death, greiving and depresseion yet keeping the overall feel of the novel light and carefree, hopeful and optimistic.It would have received another star however, i was confused by our main character Fleur.
It seemed as though in the end, every one of the characters came to some kind of change, completed some kind of journey, but I'm not quite sure that she did.
Fleur was remarkably unremorseful and unsympathetic and unchanging and yet the author suggested change at the end .
I feel like the author should have divulged to us a little bit more about our main character and the journey she travelled through out.
I was expecting light humour, romance and lots of personal development by the main character - Fleur.
She was a gold digger without morals, who didn't know what love is, what friendship is and most of all what motherhood was.Richard - her latest victim was very nice, yet he did not ask any questions and did not consider it strange that a woman could just stay with him for months without any work or family obligation.
But I though that Philiipa was pathetic, yet she had the greatest self development in this story.
The story ended very strangely without finishing all the plots.
The story seemed cute.The only thing I really liked about it is was that it was in third person.
And that's because I've been reading mostly first person lately, so it was nice to know what was going on in everyone's head.
But that's about it.The story was kind of disappointing.I liked the idea behind it, but that's it.
I'm not opposed to stories that aren't all sunshine & butterflies, but this wasn't supposed to be a brutal novel, so the coldness Fleur displayed to her daughter was hard to stomach.
It wasn't awful, but it needed something extra.
It wasn't particularly funny either.
It started off good, but I wasn't too drawn to Fleur, the main character.
Throughout the book I kept willing it to get better, but it never did.
It wasn't very funny, and it didn't really reflect on the characters pasts' much; I felt that with those particular characters, their backgrounds could've made it a more interesting read.
I felt that Fleur developed negative feelings for the Favour family, instead of developing friendships and love for them.
All in all, the story I built up in my head even before opening up the book was better than the story itself.
Madeleine Wickham, who is Sophie Kinsella's alter auteur....is wonderfully wicked and delirious in her sophisticated writing.
I loved the rather adult style of "The Gatecrasher" as the main character transforms her life over the course of a calm yet collected journey.
At its heart, this story really weighs in on one woman's swinging back and forth between two ways of life.
It's quite an epic journey, with a whole unique set of characters along for the ride.
If you love the carefree beat of Sophie Kinsella's writing, you'll fall head over heels for Madeleine Wickham's unlikely tempo and refreshing feel for high stakes.
I am just going to put it out there, though I half heatedly enjoyed sleeping arrangements I do not like Sophie Kinsella writing as Madeleine Wickham.
Its not that the books are bad (though they are not good either) its just the characters are lacking any depth and the story was lazy and just sort of ends, no round up, no big build up.
It just ends, I was so shocked by this I actually checked I hadn't lost any pages.
Ik dacht bij het aanschaffen van dit boek.
"Ik vind de boeken van Sophie Kinsella altijd wel leuk dus als ze onder haar eigen naam schrijft moeten ze toch ook wel leuk zijn" Niets is minder waar.
Ik vond dit boek erg tegenvallen.
En het einde vond ik ook erg open.
Toch sta ik nog open voor een ander boek ook onder haar eigen naam geschreven want ik ben wel van mening dat je pas kunt oordelen als je 2 of meer boeken hebt gelezen van een schrijver.
Desalniettemin blijf ik wel fan van de boeken die ze onder haar pseudoniem schrijft.
Have to be honest, I prefer Sophie Kinsella to Madeleine Wickham (yes, I know they are the same person). This book kept me entertained when I was stuck at the dentist's office however, I was at the dentist and waiting for a while so I think anything would have kept my attention. I think this book was ok, nothing amazing. Read Sophie Kinsella's books before you read Madeleine Wickham's books because Sophie's books are 100% better.
Not so good.
I think one of the things that made me like  The Gatecrasher  was just how *unlikable* Fleur is.
Fleur does *not* get bonus points for ignoring Philippa's cry for help though, and I didn't quite understand why Wickham chose not to allow Fleur's character to develop like she might have.Then there is Fleur's daughter Zara.
She really likes Gillian, Richard, and Antony and is petrified that Fleur is going to get what she wants, and then drag them off to the next challenge.
But people stick around.""No they don't," said Fleur scornfully.
Die Story beginnt als sie den einen Mann verlässt und sich auf zum nächsten - Richard- macht, der dann doch ganz anders ist alle anderen Männer..Ich habe das Buch schon ewig Zuhause liegen und konnte mich gar nicht mehr an den groben Inhalt erinnern.
Jetzt im Nachhein frage ich mich wirklich warum ich das Buch gekauft habe, denn schon vom Klappentext hätte ich erkennen müssen dass es wahrscheinlich nichts für mich ist.Charaktere:Die Charaktere fühlen sich flach an und waren einfach nur klischeehaft.
Sie wurde nur dazu benützt um Fleur besser dastehen zu lassen und um zu zeigen wie viel besser die Familie jetzt dran ist.
When I read the back of this book, it sounded like a bit of an overdone story – woman goes after rich men and cons them out of money each time.
And to be fair, it was a very predictable story that felt like it had been done before.
Unfortunately, the ending was particularly clichéd as she falls in love with the man she’s trying to con and the characters were not particularly well rounded.
Some things like Zara eating disorder, were not explained at all and I didn’t feel cutting off the reaction to her father was a good place to end the book.
This is an incredible, fantastic book -- but don't take my word for it, read it yourself. You will fall in love and in hate with these characters -- sometimes love/hate with the same character! It will keep you guessing and hoping till the very end. Just be prepared to feel so much for the characters you will not want to put it down but you will have to put it down to take a break because your emotions will be on a roller coaster. I loved the plot, you think you know where it's going but you really don't.
Two Wickham books in and I'm beginning to understand the rebrand. This is darker than a typical Kinsella book, built more on irony and human nature, greed. The first half was slow. The second half was really good. The dynamics between the characters and the motivations behind them were intriguing. I enjoyed this, but I'm not going to shove it in everyone's faces like I do CAN YOU KEEP A SECRET?And I'm still super excited for the next Wickham books that I just got my greedy little paws on!!!
3.5 stars. This was cute! Nice fluffy contemporary. I really liked all of the characters and man, can she write a jerk - Lambert! He was terrible! But in a good way, it was good friction there. Really liked it. Actually kept me guessing a little bit, but in the end was able to predict the outcome.
Of course, she doesn't pause for long enough to think of how hard it is to have a crook for a mother, but money buys happiness, right?When Fleur meets a widower with a family almost as dysfunctional as hers, she finds herself pulled into the center of things, suddenly becoming a lover to the grieving husband, a best friend to the departed's sister, and a confidant to the lonely daughter.
The voice effortlessly changes frequently throughout the book, from the children to the husband to Fleur herself, which keeps things interesting.
As it says on the front cover, she is ' a shoulder to cry on and a hand on your wallet.' This time she meets Richard and is soon drawn into his close family circle and all appears to be going well until her daughter arrives on the scene and Fleur also realises that she is not the only one after Richard's money.On the surface I shouldn't have liked this book.
