https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133517.Rommel
But recent evidence has shown that while Rommel might not have been a fanatical Nazi, he was no German angel radiating love for all his enemies either.
In so doing, it’s like watching star systems gobble each other up.And the conundrum comes up as to why we respect, even honor, the outstanding individuals of our enemies like Erwin Rommel.
Why do we respect Rommel, who caused so many deaths of young Europeans in his military support of the aims of a German monster who cooked his enemies after torturing them, among other atrocities?Could it be that we are all perverse?
After carrying a paperback of this book around (over about half a dozen moves) for over 20 years, I finally pulled it of a box and read it some months after I had finished Knight's Cross, a much more recent biography of Rommel.
It was interesting to read all these years later, after having read Knight's Cross, because we now know that Rommel's successes were achieved over even greater odds.
Review from https://darrengoossens.wordpress.com/2015/09/28/rommel-by-young/.Rommel by Desmond Young.Fontana, 1965. 316 pages.  Cover of Rommel by Desmond Young.Rommel is a highly illuminating figure when looking at the success of Hitler in Germany up to about 1941, and at the underlying rot in the regime. Brilliant leader of men that he was, Rommel was little interested in politics, and in a sense consciously simplified his life by ignoring it. The tactical sense and discipline of him and other
Young is not blind to Rommel's weaknesses -- his style relied too heavily on himself, his knowing every detail and his own example as a leader, things which could not always function at every corner of the battlefield at once -- but the figure painted is an admirable one, if perhaps narrow, with few interests outside his profession.The book is in a sense a tragedy, as we see the inevitable fate of a man of integrity within the Nazi apparatus.This book covers his whole life, focussing of course on WWII but illustrating crucial episodes from WWI when his initiative, boldness and physical toughness marked him out as a leader of men, at least on the small scale, and meant there was room for him in the 100,000-strong inter-war army allowed by Versailles.
Desmond Young's book made me a lifelong student and admirer of The Desert Fox. This is not to say the book, like Rommel, does not have its flaws.
And yet, Young gives a superb look at Rommel the man, and an unsurpassed view of what made Rommel an extraordinary commander.
Rommel: The Desert Fox is very valuable because Young met Rommel, and even though they were on opposing sides it is clear that Rommel made an impression on him.
Anyone interested in Field Marshal Erwin Rommel and the Afrika Korps should read Rommel: The Desert Fox first.
I tried to read this book keeping in mind the context in which it was written, immediately after the war with little access to information from military files.
However, the book reads more like a story about the author himself, and his adventures while gathering information on Rommel.
I finally gave up not quite 100 pages in, when the author basically says 'If you want to read about Rommel's battles in North Africa, go read another book.
I'm not quite sure what useful purpose this book serves now.
There are far better books about Rommel and his experiences.
Bella biografia di uno dei generali più bravi e meno odiosi del III Reich: un uomo intelligente, un ufficiale che non si tirava mai indietro, vicino ai suoi sottoposti, mai tiranno. Capì presto che i sogni hitleriani avrebbero portato in rovina la patria e pagò con la vita questa opinione nonostante avesse sempre dato il meglio di se stesso per la Germania
The story of a brilliant and honourable soldier. His brave exploits during WWI are fascinating and, if you read carefully, his brilliance in North African during WWII is well documented through interviews with colleagues and enemies who were there. A good read for those interested in warfare.
This book is kind of a mess. The book is about Rommel's life and military career, which was good. But the writing at time meanders. It's a good enough read most of the time, but it just seemed to need editing.
I have no words to explain the great thing about this book, it is very good and I recommend it without hesitation.
It's not Rommel's wartime skills that Brigadier Desmond Young brings to the fore in his writing - we all know that Erwin Rommel was the most able tank commander during WWII - and Young generally summarizes battles (leaving detail to other authors) and provides brief comments from contemporary interviews.
Regardless, that idea that Rommel was the one admirable Nazi Field Marshall - even though he knew about the death camps - that was that basis of the so-called "Myth of Rommel" which Young initiated with this book.To write his book, Young interviewed Rommel's wife, son, and surviving staff, post-war, and it seems likely that events of the end of the war colored much of their personal remarks about individuals.
During WWI, Rommel used his superior mind to take his men and out-flanked and the element of surprise to defeat and capture many French and Italian troops and division.
1940 to 1945, Rommel once again used the element of surprise and speed to capture hundreds of British and French troop and equipments during the Fall of France.
Rommel took his experience from WWI and the France campaign to great use.
It was also here were Rommel showed everyone that he was not any other German general in WWII.
This book focuses more on Rommel’s WWII career in France and Africa.
Very interesting the parts showcasing some propaganda work, his relations with Hitler himself (even though a General he had met Fuhrer only a handful of times) as well as the fact -that seems to be a historic pattern- that authoritative regimes do not shy away from fearfully offer triumphal speeches to reputed people after they assassin them."No generalship, however good, and still less staff-work, can outweigh lack of morale in the fighting man...If the commander conducts the battle as though he were playing chess, he will inevitably become inflexible in his theories".
The Desert Fox, WWII German Field-Marshall Erwin Rommel fought the British forces on the desert sands of North Africa.
After a series of spectacular panzer victories, British air and material superiority took its toll and Rommel's forces were defeated.
His involvement in the conspiracy was discovered and led to a most unpleasant ultimatum.This book was written by a British army officer, Desmond Young, who admired Rommel for his courage, quick wit, battlefield savvy, chivalry and fair treatment of enemy prisoners.
Told from a British point-of view, this book is a colorful account of one of the most famous generals in the history of modern warfare.
The text is based on interviews with men who served with Rommel, including Generals von Esebeck, von Ravenstein, and Fritz Bayerlein.
A man made for the military life who is said to have no real outside interests and to have never read a book that wasn't about warfare or engineering.
Very interesting but will require some knowledge of World War II, especially the Africa campaign.
Includes some of Rommel's own papers, mostly dealing with his displeasure with his superiors concerning his time in Africa.
"I only tried to serve my country, as I have done all my life, and now this is what I must do.
The account, much like Alan Moorehead's writing to which he often refers, is based on firsthand experience as a soldier who fought against, was captured by and actually met Rommel and on post-war interviews with participants from both sides.
The author, like his subject, was a professional soldier who fought in both the Great War and WWII.
He makes clear that Rommel was also such a gentleman soldier in the German military but definitely not a Nazi and in fact had little regard for the politicians and their henchmen.
When I first read this book I knew little about Rommel.
By the time I finished it I admired the man.
This man plotted to kill Hitler, risking not only his own life in the process (and indeed he was killed for it) but also his own family's.
But of course there is so much more about Rommel.
He is like a fictional character from a hero movie but real.
The writer actually fought against Rommel.
A fact that only adds a very unique angle/perspective, making the whole narrative even better.I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in history and World war II.
This is a great, touching biography of Erwin Rommel.
I had supposed that a book first published in 1950 would be hopelessly dated.
I was so wrong!
The book stays away from what could become a tedious, and by today's knowledge, outdated, blow-for-blow account of his numerous battles and instead the author goes mostly after Rommel's character, trying to figure out who he was and what he thought of a particular situation.Rommel emerges not only as a resourceful general, but also as a very courageous human being, someone full of integrity, that ended up paying for it with his life.Inspiring, moving and highly recomended.
Though it was natural for me as a young reader in India to side with the Allies in the Second World War, there were a few German commanders who earned the respect of even their enemies.
Field Marshal Erwin Rommel, the German Commander of the Afrika Korps, who pushed the British 8th Army all the way to Tobruk, was one such.Desmond Young's story was impartial and brought out the facts of the battle as they took place in North Africa.
We get to know the ingenuity with which Rommel planned and executed his strategies which earned him the title of "The Desert Fox."A very good read for the student of military history.
This is a well written Rommel biography researched and written by an admirer who fought against him the desert war of World War II.Much of Rommel's official history was badly tainted by Nazi propagandists and Desmond Young got a great deal of the information from personal sources now largely deceased. The author's bias towards General Rommel is obvious but he details the military mistakes and personal foibles of the general as well.The ending includes an Appendix written by Rommel himself on the nature of desert warfare and is a welcome addition.
I have read a lot on Rommel but this book holds a special place to me among the histories I have read.
First though let me say that it is very well written and based on quite a bit of first hand knowledge and research from good sources like Field Marshall Rommel's widow.
I love this book because it illustrates the great respect adversaries can have for one another even in times of war and shows Rommel not only for his military genius but his sense of honor without compromise.
Anyone who wants a good introduction to a legendary military reader should start here.
Rummel is quite the guy, integrity that stands out given the events should not be understated.Book was interesting and the author certainly did go to lengths to talk to people and muster up details. Could have used many more pictures, diagrams and maps though as most of the battles and maneuvers had me glazing over slightly given i was not too acquainted with the history and terrain (author assumes a bit here) and whilst it does give you insight as to Rummel ' s knack/intuition it ends up being somewhat flat if you have to try and imagine it all.
Detailed account of the personal life of the most well known German military office of WWII (not necessarily best, though I've yet to hit Guderian's PANZER LEADER to compare). As a personal portrait this is intriguing,and Rommel is painted in a generally positive light, from his undistinguished origins to his voluntary suicide in the dwindling days of the great war. But without a thorough knowledge of tank warfare, WWII personalities, the sociopolitical history of Nazi Germany and British WWII era (author was a British officer) most of the insights will be lost on the casual reader.

Important book on Rommel, as it's one of the very first post war biographies. Researched right after the war even as the Nuremberg trials were taking place. Well written, with personal insight into how Young researched. Although many later books have now re-examined Rommel's papers it's still interesting to look at one of the first.
I read this book in 1964 and was impressed by Brigadier Desmond Young's even handed account of Rommel's life and career. If you want detailed accounts of the many battles in North Africa, you will have to go to other books, but for a good account of Rommel the man, this one is the best. Brigadier Young interviewed family and friends as well as other officers, so this is a well rounded biography.
I respect Rommel a lot more after reading this book. Tactically, he was amazing, but many others have been too. What really impressed me was that in the end he was one of the few German leaders who actually tried to take Hitler down. In the end, he was forced to commit suicide. He was a good man and a good fighter.
Made me admire the german efforts in war from a purely academic and military/strategic point of view. It's fascinating to read that there were gentlemen on the German side as well. It's a fact that gets obscured by the American portrayal of all Germans at war as being Nazis.
This book had so much potential with a promising subject matter but how the author choose to deliver it made it borderline unreadable. Specifically he was apparently a British WWII POW & kept in his narrative reverting to the 1st person. Nor did it help there were WAY to many commas.
I read this book when I was living in England. And it was this book that got me interested in reading about WWII. So for three years, I read every book I could get my hands on about WWII, thanks to the writer of this book who made history so very interesting.
Read this one a long time ago (15 years?) and thought it very well done. Rommel seems to have been a great general and had some scruples: trying to get rid of Hitler at the end of the day. Worth reading if you like war history. I generally don't so this is high praise.
