https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/319286.Personality_Plus
The author further offers some suggestions on how to improve relations with people based on the knowledge of the different personality types and being able to identify those in yourself and others.I had many "holy cow!" moments when reading this book and found it a real joy.
This book will change your life if you've never been exposed to this information before.My perspective has changed as a result of the information passed on to me from reading Personality Plus and the author has delivered on her intent on making a "better me" through the understanding of different personality types and the application of that new-found knowledge in my personal relationships.Need I say more?
The conceit of it is that there are four basic "temperaments": Popular Sanguine, Peaceful Phlegmatic, Powerful Choleric, and Perfect Melancholy.
Then on top of that, you can end up with a fairly even distribution between two or more types, so you are, say, a sanguine with choleric tendencies, or whatever.So basically, it comes down to: There are all different types of people out there who think and behave differently, have different strengths & weaknesses, get along well or not well with certain other personalities or situations, and respond well to different types of communication & behavior.
Buku ini sangat bermanfaat utk dapat memahami diri sendiri dan orang lain...Menurut buku ini, karakter seseorang digolongkan menjadi empat karakter :1.
Namun tiap orang memiliki perbedaan mengenai dominasi karakter dalam dirinya ke dalam dua karakter dominan...Kalau kita lihat dari penggabungan itu karakter seseorang dibagi menjadi :1.
Koleris Sanguinis3.
Koleris Sanguinis3.
Koleris Melankolis7.
Koleris Melankolis7.
Phlegmatis MelankolisDi dalam buku ini dijelaskan bagaimana seseorang harus bersikap terhadap org lain bila menghadapi seseorang yang berkarakter tertentu.
Dan di dalam buku ini juga dibahas bagaimana seseorang mengetahui siapa diri dia sebenarnya.
Justru penulis memaparkan dalam bentuk beberapa kisah hidupnya....Interesting !!!Bagaimana keterangan dari karakter Anda, cek di buku ini....ok?Check this out !!
The way he explained it, I was intrigued, and naturally I also wanted to read this book which sounded as though it might have life-changing powers.
No unnecessarily long and tedious descriptions, and the author uses scenarios of her and her husband’s experiences (before and after they knew about the different personality types) which often had me smiling and to which I could easily relate.Did this book change my life?
It’s probably not a life-changing read, but it might make a difference in your way of thinking if you take the time to understand the four different personality types.
Then, probably about 1987, I read this book and it changed my life and the lives of my kids (and husband).
It has held me in good stead through church activities, jobs, public school meetings and a dozen other situations.This book will give you the tools to roughly categorize the temperaments of the people in your life and reveal to you how to love them, live with them, and work with them.
And why your husband insists on every book on the shelf being the same height irregardless of any other issues.It's simple and straightforward, easy to read and understand, and most important?
bagi yg ingin tau sifat dominannya, buku yg tepat. aku baru tau da 4 sifat dominan manusia dan aku salah satunya. coba tebak apa?
3.5 starsI read this book for a spiritual growth study sponsored through the Women's Ministry at my church. Our leader, Vicki Olsen, was an inspiring teacher. I've taken many personality tests over the years, mostly sponsored by my employer, but this study was comprehensive, eye-opening and very helpful to my understanding of interacting with family and co-workers.
The author lost me at the personality test. I mean what does outspoken and orderly have in common? Or any of the words in a single row? What kind of data driven research or critical thinking is involved in it? The book is pseudoscience and doesn't deserve a review or a read.
Personality Plus was helpful for our family when we read it almost twenty years ago.
Like most families, we had the most trouble between family members with widely different temperaments because both children and adults could only see the world through their own ways of thinking and reacting.
Personality Plus helped each member of our family to understand and appreciate his own temperament as well as the temperaments of each other.
Today there are helpful tests online to help you make this determination, but reading this book helps one to see each temperament in relationship to others and will help anyone to appreciate the different temperaments.
I picked up Personality Plus at the store because it sounded fun and interesting.
Self help books have become a huge part of my life since Christmas 2015, when I had a serious mental crash and put myself through a rigorous "get better" program.
Included in the broad category of self help are personality books.
Maybe it's because I'm coming off of some really serious, mind-blowing books.
However, the personality test in this one seemed more of words put together without any relation to each other.
This book has been very useful and life changing to other readers, but it just didn't do it for me.

An evergreen favourite amongst network marketers, "Personality Plus" teaches you about yourself. In doing so, it frees you up to understand others. It's a well-written and enjoyable classic. Read this book to learn practical skills in how you can more readily accept and support others in your life.
I read this book when I was 10 (1992), but I'm removing the finished date because it's an outlier that messes up my graph.
Too much of repetitive content . The crux of the book could have been covered in a 20 page essay
Such a great book- it actually made me realise how different we all are. Loved it, seriously. btw, I'm definitely a Popular Sanguine mixed with other personallities :)
I would be really happy if I could read this book years ago. Really amazing insights on personality.Nowerdays, in our company we use insight colors and in this book, it uses popular, powerful pefect, peaceful.Myself been a Blue color, my wife a Red color and my.boss a Yellow color. I feel impressed how accurate it descripes the different colors personality around me. It is a book worthwhile to read several times and use different personality samples to practice.
Viena no retajām grāmatām, kurā aprakstīti ne tikai četri temperamenta tipi un to īpašības, bet pieļauti arī krustojumi, izņēmumi, izskaidrotas attiecības starp dažādu vai vienādu tipu cilvēkiem. Vērtīga grāmata, ja vēlies uzzināt vairāk par personības tipiem, bet negribi lasīt sarežģītu literatūru.
Con este libro aprendes a conocer a las personas que te rodean, a entender sus comportamientos y a conocerte a ti mismo. Absolutamente lo recomiendo!
Florence Littauer has created a fun book to read with a core message of understanding why we think and act the way we do.
I am not the "whoo hoo" type and I would always wonder why anyone would act and be so loud...but that is just them being them...now I can just smile and say..."oh, right, they are a Sanguine" and accept the difference...even take a bit of how they are and apply it to myself.
The greatest benefit after reading the book perhaps will be a smile on your face as you say to yourself, "ah ha...I am neither "right nor wrong"...I just Am...and so is everybody else."
Dibanding kesan-kesan lainnya, saya merasa paling perlu berterima kasih kpd (penulis) buku ini karena telah membantu saya memahami diri sendiri (juga orang lain) dlm pemerian sederhana namun menyeluruh. Setidaknya, dlm hal watak/kepribadian. Apakah kita termasuk Sanguinis Populer, Melankolis Sempurna, Koleris Kuat, atau Phlegmatis Damai, dapat kita temukan di sini. Senang sekali membacanya dan mengetahui ada di kotak mana saya. Kompleks tapi mudah dipahami. Banyak contoh yg dekat dgn kehidupan kita sehari-hari. Dan yg paling penting, buku ini telah membuka pandangan saya tentang sesuatu yg merisaukan pikiran saya belakangan ini. You have my thanks, Florence!
I could not put this book down. I found it so intriguing, insightful and helpful. I definitely understand myself, my partner, my family and friends a little better now and hopefully will be able to tackle the difficult situations that arise a little better. It is worth a read but only if you are actually willing to accept the psychology of it all and be honest and truthful when assessing yourself. If you are not willing to be honest with yourself then don't bother picking up this book because you won't get anything out of it.
Prefer this to other personality metrics because of the definitions - she doesn't put you in a box but recognizes we have characteristics of all four personalities. Helped me in my relationship at the time recognize certain behaviors weren't intentionally antagonizing but baseline personality characteristics. By understand myself and my partner we could work towards having more grace with each other as well as understanding how we can help each other help ourselves.
aku sudah baca buku ini berkali-kali, sangat menarik untuk tahu karakter orang2 disekeliling kita dengan hanya memperhatikan apa yang dia lakukan , atau makanan apa yang lebih dia sukai, atau bahkan dari cara dia berjalan dan bertegur sapa dengan orang. bukan ingin mengkotak-kotakan orang kedalam karakter tertentu...hanya berusaha memahami orang lain dan memperlakukannya sebagaimana karakternya.buku ini membuatku dapat mengerti mengapa seseorang berpikiran seperti apa yang dia pikirkan.
it's really really a must-read-book!! =Di read this book in a long long long time ago =Dthere are 4 human characteristics are explained, such as Sanguin (the talkative & party lover), Melancholic (perfectionist in every thing), Choleric (the leader, influencer, & motivator), Phlegmatic (the cool & peacemaker)..this book also provide psychology test so we can get what kind of a person who we are =D!
This is a great reference if you want to understand yourself better and understand the others around you as well. It's always good to know your strengths and weaknesses as a friend, a worker, and even as a parent. This book is indeed a plus since it also makes you look into other people's strengths and weaknesses. Knowing, understanding and appreciating other persons' personalities make working together more possible ... more peaceful.
I've read Personality Plus before, but each time I read it I find new insights. This book gives you the tools to quickly determine the personality traits for those around you and gives you practical tools to work with each personality type, and minimize the negative aspects of your personality. The best book I've read on interpersonal relationships.
A real eye opener. This book explains so much about how those around us are different, not wrong! This book is so helpful in understanding yourself as well as learning how to tone down the aspects of your personality that irritate others. It also gives really practical suggestions for working with people who have a different personality.
Maybe it was her sanguine style of writing that drove me crazy, but it seems she drew far too much from her own family and self and gave very little else in way of explaining the personalities. Examples and anecdotes serve a purpose, but the book was wholly narrative. I expected a lot more content, and a little less giddiness. Was not a fan.
I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this book to EVERYONE !!! I have read it multiple times. This book has literally changed my life! I had only looked at relationships 2 dimensionally before I discovered this book with the help of the-team.biz Now, not only do I have better relationships, but I have more friends & have better results at work. Thanks Florence & TEAM for guiding me out of my lonely misery. Sean
My best friend made me read this and figure out what kind of personality I am. I forgot what type of personality I am, but I remember thinking that it really described me pretty well, and also explained why I act the way I do sometimes. I should read this again.
