https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13438524-flight-behavior
Unfortunately, unlike the others, this one failed to meet my expectations.My first Kingsolver read was The Bean Trees, which centers around a girl desperate to get out of her small, hick town where most of the girls are pregnant before they even leave high school.
Revisiting old themes, while not what I know Kingsolver for, can be done well, but, in this case, it felt repetitive and less well done.Flight Behavior feels like it was written not so much for the characters as to be the vehicle for a message: global warming is real and it's not just about changing temperatures.
It is a brilliant way of making it clear that it is worth actually knowing something about local life before preaching.It is a difficult life folks lead in Feathertown, a place in which the science teacher offers his students the option of shooting hoops instead of learning science, a place where a Christmas shopping trip is to the second hand store.
Kingsolver offers a caring, nuanced look at life in Appalachia and raises our awareness of what real global warming looks like to actual people.
Redneck environmentalism.
Now there's a contradiction in terms.
Kingsolver's writing is up to its usual high standards, and her character development is outstanding.
She just tried to stuff way too many things into one sausage casing.
The result is something tough to chew, sometimes bland, and slow to digest.
In this novel, BK was fixated on long conversations while the characters are shopping.
There was one with Cub and Dellarobia in the dollar store, and another with Dovey and Dellarobia in the secondhand store.
The conversations and the shopping that accompanied them felt endless.
Barbara Kingsolver is one of those rare writers with whom you know what you are getting before you open the first page.You know, for example, that the prose is going to be literary, dense, and luscious (take this descriptive line: Summer’s heat had never really arrived, nor the cold in turn, and everything living now seemed to yearn for sun with the anguish of the unloved.”) You know that the content will focus on some kind of social justice, biodiversity, or environmental issue.
There is something mesmerizing about a Barbara Kingsolver novel, and something refreshing about a writer who combines a solid scientific background with stunning prose.This book is entitled Flight Behavior, and for good reason.
In this book, however, she uses her pretty language to dress up an unlikeable bitch and then she harangues us - on and on - about global warming, the sins of buying shoddy goods made overseas, the shameful state of rural education, hmmm, did I miss anything?
People make SPEECHES in this book, as if it were conversation.
And then she has the less-bitchy friend of the bitch woman throw in old chestnuts from church bulletin boards, which, trust me, you've read before, and they weren't that funny the first time.
Those of us who read your books are the choir.
The author has a real point to make here: global warming is bad, logging is bad, they're killing the monarch butterfly population and Attention Must Be Paid.
That message is interwoven with the story of Dellarobia Turnbow, a poor farmer's wife who used to have dreams of college and something better.Dellarobia married Cub at 17, pregnant with his child.
Dellarobia's journey was interesting, the monarchs a little less so.
Totally unnecessary.The ending also felt off: when did Dellarobia and Cub come to the decisions they did?
I adored this book. I drank it in slowly, trying to make the story last, and as a result I ended up becoming very involved in Dellarobia's life, loving her children and newfound passions while also feeling frustrated and stuck by aspects of her situation. This book is about global warming without really being all about global warming. Somehow Kingsolver, a biologist herself, has woven the frightening and undeniable crisis of global warming into a beautiful coming-of-age story about a woman whose teenagehood was cut short by pregnancy & early marriage but is finally learning to find her real self.
A very difficult book to rate. I almost gave up on it, but became engaged around page 100. Though not completely engaged. It's just not that interesting, though some of the writing is very good. Not Kingsolver's best. 3 1/2 stars.
Well, prepare to step into the rural, economically depressed farming and sheepherding town of Feathertown, Tennessee, where the shepherds flock on Sundays to commune with Pastor Bobby Ogle, their beloved and kind preacher and spiritual leader.
This is the kind of repressed, technologically challenged community who believes that weather is determined by God, not by science, and that the past year’s flooding was decreed by the heavens and can only be reversed by prayer.
If her political evocations have bothered you in the past, they are likely to bother you here, too.Nevertheless, the author weaves in her social issues with finesse, for the most part, and her vivid portrait of Feathertown is sympathetic and informed.
Kingsolver has absolutely accomplished what she set out to do with this novel, that is, to write fiction that takes climate change for its backdrop--the first book of its kind, and momentous in doing such.As Kingsolver puts it, poor, rural, Southerners are the people in the United States most likely to be affected by climate change.
A wonderful portrait that treats with respect the rural poor, the immigrants who flee various catastrophic "natural" distasters due to climate change, and the scientists working so hard to uncover how and why our world is changing, and what we can do to save it.A must read for every modern reader.
The biological oddity attracts widespread attention, and theories about its cause range from an act of God to a world gone haywire from climate change.Dr. Ovid Byron, a butterfly expert, comes to Feathertown and sets up a temporary lab to study the insects.
The book is partly a treatise on the dire consequences of climate change, and partly a character study of the Feathertown people, who tend to reject scientific explanations for changes in nature, regarding them as God's will.
The book didn't have a strong plot in the usual sense but the characters were interesting and the dangers of climate change were boldly drawn.
Kingsolver two stars?
Yep, two stars which I realize is akin to admitting one kicks puppies.
Let the stoning begin.This book should have come with the disclaimer that the first chapter belongs to another book altogether.
Unfortunately, the first chapter was the only one worth reading.
No spoilers for the diehard Kingsolver fan who will seek out her musings written on reusable handi-wipes.The protagonist’s name is Dellarobia – five syllables.
Five syllables.
Five syllables that appear numerous times on each and every page tripping up the reader like a slow walker attempting to run high hurdles in the Olympic Trials.
The fate of the butterflies is intended to be a larger reflection of the crisis of Dellarobia's failing marriage and her increasing desperation to escape.The premise and plot sounds much better as summarized than as written.
Early on we get it -- Dellarobia is too smart to be trapped in this marriage to someone intellectually her inferior, with in-laws who are narrow and hostile, in a town that is ignorant and ornery.
Similarly there is no compassion or understanding for Dellarobia's husband Cub, who may be a slow-witted slacker but does have virtues -- he is grounded and faithful.Finally, the book uses clumsy devices.
Kingsolver brings us back to her homeland of Appalachia, where we meet Dellarobia, the main character, who feels trapped by her family life, her class, societal expectations, and Hestor, her evil-seeming mother-in-law.
I felt stuck in church with Hestor, too, while reading this book but I kept on.
Warning: there's a lot of science in this book and probably more than you'll ever want to know about monarch butterflies, aka "king billies." I confess, I skimmed over some of it.
But outside of all the science, Kingsolver writes some great scenes.
Nice to read a novel with a working class female protagonist as well.
Barbara Kingsolver has included a number of plot threads in her novel Flight Behavior, about subjects she cares about, including the primary one - climate change.
The plot threads include: someone living a life that is less than her potential, bigotry against country culture, and the way the world is affected by climate change.
Dellarobia's name is a great metaphor for her life, how she is much more than she thought she was.One of my favorite quotes from the novel comes from a conversation between Ovid and his wife, Juliette.
They are speaking about Dellarobia's theory concerning the reasons why many country people doubt that climate change exists.
Oh Barbara Kingsolver, how I loved the Bean Trees and The Poisonwood Bible, and now I am finally catching up on some of her newer work.
As Dellarobia, a young mother who is discouraged with her life and the disappointing results of her "shotgun " marriage, steals up the mountainside away from the family farm she shares with her husband Cub, In-laws and two young children, to meet a would be clandestine lover, she stumbles upon the sight of millions of Monarch butterflies that have arrived in masse to inhabit a grove of trees reserved for future logging income on the family land.
I am a big Kingsolver fan, but I was disappointed how this one dragged in the domestic life of its main character and the didactic themes about the impact of global warming on nature and about rural folk who deny its reality.One could call this a character study about a woman in her late twenties, Dellarobbia, trapped in an unfulfilling sheep ranching life in rural Appalachian Tennessee.
Dellarobbia’s main pleasures are from raising her young kids, working with the sheep, and half-hearted attempts to start affairs with men she gets crushes on.Things change when she discovers a phenomenon in the woods that reflects an adverse impact of global warming and scientists come to investigate it.
1.5 stars - I didn't like it..Despite the great opening sentence, this was a tedious and dull book about a loveless marriage between "a towering, morose man and his small, miserable wife" and "the Battle of the Butterflies".
As a bonus, the novel also doubles as a manual for birthing lambs.This was the first fictional book I have read by Kingsolver and I found her writing style to be painfully verbose as she rambles on forever about inconsequential things.
A typical wife, blind as a bat, missing every sign as another woman angled for her husband.First Sentence: A certain feeling comes from throwing your good life away, and it is one part rapture.
It’s also one that can be illustrated by a recent Yale-George Mason study, which determined that climate change denial among the general public has actually increased.According to the study, “Back in September 2012, only 43 percent of those who believed that global warming isn't happening said they were either "very sure" or "extremely sure" about their views.
She can no longer look at science---and faith---in the same way.In one of the more thoughtful, terrifying, and human conversations in the novel, Kingsolver, via Dellarobia, explains why denial has become a necessary defense mechanism for many people.[Byron said,] “Science doesn’t tell us what we should do.
Our introduction to the story's protagonist, Dellarobia Turnbow, situates her as a simple small-town Tennessee girl whose choices have all been made for her.
Like a lot of small children, Preston is sophisticatedly canny at recognizing an adult worthy of a child's hero-worship, which he bestows upon Ovid at their first meeting.
In short, FLIGHT BEHAVIOR succeeds so emphatically because Dellarobia is everyhuman, and every corner of her world becomes accessible through her.
It is Dellarobia who much more subtly demonstrates that in the shadow of the global changes that occupy our collective mind, small changes also occur all around us: children grow up, people we have underestimated surprise us, relationships strengthen or break down, people's lives change direction, faith is lost or found.
I liked Dr. Bryon and his crew, although they were quite 'understanding' and 'tolerant' and 'engaging' with the locals, I assume because they were so well-educated.
Hester didn't want to get attached to Dellarobia or the children because she knew they would leave her in the end.
I ended up with much more affection for Hester than I would have thought.What I hated most was the almost inevitable exit of Dellarobia from her 'I've-been-kept-back-from-what-I-deserve/I-need-my-education-because-I'm-smarter-than-everyone-else-around-me/there's-a-world-out-there-I-need-to-see' life.
And, I believe there was a different ending to the book had Ms. Kingsolver looked deeper.All of my grousing aside, I did love the butterfly sections, as well many of the plot turns near the end.
In 2000, Kingsolver established the Bellwether Prize to promote, among other liberal goals, novels that “advocate the preservation of nature.” Fortunately, her own books have been more subtle than the earnest Bellwether winners, and “Flight Behavior” is not the op-ed-in-story-form that one might fear.The book’s success stems from Kingsolver’s willingness to stay focused on a conflicted young woman and her faltering marriage, while a strange symptom of the degraded environment overwhelms her remote Tennessee town.
Kingsolver has written one of the more thoughtful novels about the scientific, financial and psychological intricacies of climate change.
Climate change, the single most important issue of our time, is one of those themes that are so vast, packed with complicated scientific concepts, obscured by political debates and made even more confusing by irresponsible media reporting, that any attempt to narrate a story that is remotely linked to it becomes an act of bravery.
Her characters are convincing and make lasting impressions; their stories are relatable and while they may start very stereotypical or caricaturish, Kingsolver is very good at peeling the layers one by one to reveal their true personalities.
Preachy, plotty, fluffy, fine. Lowered from three stars to two on 9/29. The book has really good production values but the story is lame and it really felt like a book written by someone who just made three new friends from white Appalachia and wants to propagandize to the aspirationally liberal. If Kingsolver wants to be political she should try writing a novel that doesn't preach to the choir.
I read Kingsolver's "The Lacuna" in 2013 and I absolutely loved it.
I'm not sure why it has taken me so long to get round to reading another of her novels, because I also loved this one.
Flight Behaviour takes on some big and serious themes - climate change, class, poverty, motherhood, consumerism, identity - that really make you think, but easy answers are not handed to the reader on a plate.
Kingsolver's writing is beautiful and her characters are flawed and believable.
I am sure this book will stay with me for a long time (and I won't leave it another 4 years before I read another Kingsolver novel!)
When I began Flight Progression, I was immediately taken with the names of characters: Dellarobia(I thought of the blue pigment on my water color pallette), Ovid, Byron, Hester, Cordelia, Preston.
Their nests were draping every tree and millions of monarchs filled the sky making the skeptical Dellarobia believe that she was witnessing a miracle.
Kingsolver did a great job showing the city,affluent reader, how the poor and the rural people are conserving and recycling in a much more serious way than those of us who take pride in recycling soda bottles and newspapers.Dellarobia's personal crisises are many and often analogous to nature: sheep.
butterflies, climate control, but sometimes derive from poverty, lack of education,etc.Kingsolver has such a way with words.
Toward the end of the book the main character asked her son to repeat the words, “It won’t ever go back how it was.” That's true both globally and for the family in this story.
At the very end of the book the author drives this point home by covering everything with flood water.Monarch Butterflies are a central focus of this story.
The real reason butterflies have landed there is because that is the part of the country with which Kingsolver, the author, is familiar.This familiarity with the rural residents eastern Tennessee is apparent in Kingsolver's skillful writing.
Despite the obvious parallels between the butterfly life cycle and the metamorphosis of the main character, Dellarobia, Kingsolver has managed to tell many stories here without hammering us with the symbolism.
She turns back, the line never crossed, yet her life will never be the same.Putting monarchs in the Appalachians instead of Mexico for the winter is Kingsolver's way to talk about global warming in this book, and although other readers have found it too heavy handed, I managed to learn through Dellarobia's eyes, as someone who didn't know anything about climate change, but who, ultimately, as a farmer, is living with the consequences of it every day.
Well that was my first Barbara Kingsolver book and since everyone seems to agree it is not her best then I certainly have some really good books still to read!
I really enjoyed this one.
She writes beautifully descriptive prose and some of her characters are delightful.
I also felt very sorry for Cub who really had never done anything wrong but eventually came out the one who lost the most.
The book has left me with a yearning to visit Mexico one day and see the amazing gathering of the Monarch butterflies myself.
Something for my bucket list.
My review for this seems to have disappeared. I enjoyed it very much when i read it a year or so ago.
