https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16810.The_Berlin_Stories
Based on his own experiences living in pre-WWII Berlin, Isherwood writes of the Nazis being talked of, even laughed at, at first; and by the book's end of their stalking the streets and terrorizing Jewish citizens, the police powerless to do anything about it.
Mr. Norris of the first novella is not the kind of character I warm to, though perhaps it is more that this is an earlier work than the other, and with the latter Isherwood found his voice.
During this 1952 visit, he hears the war stories of his indomitable former landlady, sees the places he’d lived in and hopes someone will, one day, write the story of the ‘new’ Berlin.
Recently, I have had some interesting reading experiences with book choices for one of my Goodreads groups, Reading the 20th Century.
After all, despite the fact that I have watched virtually no films all the way through, I have seen, and enjoyed, “Cabaret,” which was taken from Isherwood’s novellas.
Indeed, pre-war Berlin is a delightful, literary place to spend time.
Oddly, while describing one character, Bernhard Landauer, Isherwood writes that he remained, “remote from me – his face impassive.” Most of the time, I felt this way about the author’s portrayal of Berlin.
Two novels in one, although the second 'novel' is a collection of loosely connected stories. A series of character portraits, exaggerated personalities, and all the color and clamor of a Weimar cabaret. But all of this is made bittersweet with the knowledge that the Nazis would begin to consume all in their path by 1933.
UPDATE Aug 2106 ...
tried again ...
just as boring After starting with great expectations, I found "The Berlin Stories" to be incredibly boring.
The GR reviews of the book were far more interesting (for me) than the book itself.
I guess I like character development as an adjunct to a plot, but not so much all by itself.
I found no reason to care about the characters and the minutia of their lives, no matter how well described they were.
A pity, since so much was happening in Germany in the time period of the stories (early to mid 1930s).
This is more a collection of Isherwood’s stories, of his memories of Berlin just before the time Hitler came into power (the Nazis looming in the background seem so much more prominent in this collection than the first book)—of people, families, and places.
Though there is a feeling of sadness in most of their stories, most of these people are eccentric in their own ways (may be more so than the first book), and they are all unique and interesting—they struggle but their struggles draw one in, make one read on.
I'm reading this alongside Isherwood's memoir, Christopher and His Kind for an upcoming column on the film Cabaret.
(*slaps own cheek* Did I say that?)Isherwood's writing is so delightful, his characters so well-drawn and his portrait of Berlin so fascinating that you almost miss the despair, particularly in "Sally Bowles." It's hard to read that story without seeing Liza Minelli in your mind's eye and hearing the soundtrack from the musical running through your head.
and Bernhard is the most appropriate victim, being a prominent Jew.") and for the more serious sin of having projected onto the character his (Christopher's) own insecurities.I love Isherwood for his revisionism.
I fell in love with Isherwood earlier this year when I read "A Single Man." So I couldn't resist when the book club chose The Berlin Stories.
Even though I was vastly overcommitted I did it anyway.
And I'm glad.It's not as dark as so much pre-WWII writing is.
That's because most pre-WWII writing was written post-WWII and takes a look at the oncoming darkness head-on.
With Isherwood it really seeps in so slowly you don't notice.It is a very youthful book, full of the kind of blase naivete that isn't anything like innocence.
I can't explain why it is that Isherwood and I connect.
Instead, we have two short novels—Mr. Norris Changes Trains and Goodbye to Berlin—that are often collectively called The Berlin Stories, novels which may be the definitive portrayal of a country rapidly descending into fascism as an authoritarian leader was poised to take power, novels that Time Magazine placed on the top 100 English language books of the twentieth century.Even though these novels feel "light" because of Isherwood’s crisp, realistic, and modern use of language, they have a grim depth because they contain the almost hidden background of Hitler's rise to power and the county’s acceptance of it.
What didn’t work for me was the excessively detached style and the fact that references to the political situation appeared mostly as exposition, lacking the subtlety and nuance that Cabaret delivered so well.Despite having raved about the setting, I can safely say that this was the only redemptive quality.
I don’t think that the vignette style entirely worked given that there was very little by way of compelling relationships or characters, elements that might otherwise have drawn some emotional investment.
Isherwood is strangely drawn to the garish characters that populate his novels; perhaps he is able to take inspiration from their many quirks, from the querulous Bernhard to the bossy Frau Landauer, the vulgar Otto and the Machiavellian Bayer, yet Isherwood is able to build or empathy and make us care for these characters, however distasteful some of their characteristics are, Isherwood is able to draw on their many human qualities, so when their fates are tragically overtaken by the Nazi regime which comes into power during some of the vignettes, the reader is distraught the realise that the light of the eccentric yet sensitive Bernhard Landauer or the bellicose yet brave Otto have forever been extinguished, both in the real world and in the novel.
It's mostly known now for being one of the first books to explicitly examine the growing threat of the Nazi Party in the 1930s, a first-person survey of the creative chaos of Weimar Germany that was used as the source material for the '70s musical Cabaret; and while, yes, the book does mention Nazis here and there, I was surprised to learn when finally reading it that it's much more a deep, poetic examination of complex character, a look by Isherwood at the fascinating, complicated real people he was surrounded by during his youth as an openly gay liberal artist, during a brief window in Germany's history when such a thing was openly tolerated.As such, then, Isherwood's sensitive writing covers everyone from the wilting hothouse flowers of the former aristocracy he was hired to teach English to, to the petty criminals now attracted to the burgeoning Communist Party (and the manipulative intellectuals who were their supervisors), the charming rogues who ran Germany's thriving inter-war black market, and the many still-closested homosexuals who used all these devices as a way to facilitate then hide their illicit gay affairs.
I first read this book thiry years ago, being most concerned with the Sally Bowles/"Cabaret" connection, and loved it.
Upon re-reading it again so many years later, I can appreciate it even more.
It's a wonderful book.
Isherwood is a marvelous writer, and he gives us an invaluable opportunity to time travel back to the last days of the Berlin of the Weimar Republic, with its "divine decadence," its joyful sexuality, its economic and political unrest, and its odd innocence before Hitler seized power.
Isherwood's vignettes are very touching, very funny, and, given our current political climate, very unsettling.
Read it.
While the two are not directly linked, they do have a common narrator, boarding house and landlady (all the essentials to a great story).Book one follows the narrator (presumably the author) on a trip from his native England, on the train, to Berlin, where he shares a berth with the odd, yet intriguing Arthur Norris.
The second book reads more like a diary or journal, with six different entries, each about people the narrator spends him time with in Berlin.
Like Arthur Norris from the first story, the characters in the second book are so well written and developed.
Uneven, but strangely powerful. I'm not sure why.
He shows how Communism & Nazism are taken in by many Germans during theses tough post World War 1 years.Goodbye to Berlin has several short stories which have some overlapping in other stories due to the people he is writing about show up there when significant but fresh in content.A Berlin Diary - 1930- tells of his land lady & the people who boarded with Chris, one being a prostitute.Sally Bowles- this is based on his friendship with a loose woman who wants to be an actress & has almost zero morals.
Really, this book contains two complete short novels (one of which is almost a collection of interrelated short stories) set in Berlin between 1930 and 1934.
In the background of the encounters between eccentric characters, Nazis are rising to power, and there is a palpable sense of an ending to the life being described herein.
The movie Cabaret was based on one character and a few other occasions from the second novel, Goodbye to Berlin.
Oh, and both books have a lot of coded (and occasionally uncoded) gay encounters.
I have to clarify with my 3 star rating that this is an average because it is really two different books in one.
The first one is The Last of Mr. Norris.
If I were reviewing that one alone I would have given it only 2 stars.
He gets involved with Arthur Norris who is a very likable criminal with a fondness for dominatrixes.
I very much enjoyed it and would have given it 4 stars.
It was more of Isherwood’s life in Berlin in the early 1930s.
Dear Mr. Isherwood, how is it that we haven't before been introduced?
In fact, I may even slightly prefer the oft-panned The Last of Mr. Norris, for although Mr. Norris is obnoxious, his narrative coheres in ways that Goodbye to Berlin does not (and it provides a better glimpse of dear Frl. Schroeder).
Of course, I don't mean to knock Goodbye, either, for it's a lovely array of vignettes with some exceedingly well-depicted characters -- the ephemeral Sally Bowles, the ripped Otto, and so on.
Particularly delightful is, of course, Isherwood's oblique treatment of sexuality.
Isherwood has taken me by storm.
Isherwood's own thoughtful, gentle, fallible nature, which the reader understands and idnetifies with immediately, stands in haunting contrast to the ominous changes taking place in Berlin during his stay there (1930-1934). For me, at least, the novel brings home--in a deeply personal way--how uncertain the political outcomes were as late as 1932; and then, how swiftly and crushingly the tides shifted. It also gives names and personalities to people--Nazis, communists, politcal know-nothings, and Jews wealthy and otherwise--that are too often subsumed within group identities in the broad sweep of world history.
It's hard not to romanticize/fantasize about living in Weimar-era Berlin... the art, the decadence, the imminent doom of a society that will be genocided and then bombed into nothingness. And I'm totally a sucker for it too. Isherwood hits all the right bullet points for this romantic image-- stoic Jewish families staring at the dawn of the Third Reich with brave faces on, exuberant youthful communists, expatriate actresses, Nazi landladies, independently wealthy sadomasochists, and prostitutes whose hearts are made of nothing even close to gold. Witty, often poignant, and very, very fun.
Also, the holocaust or the rise of Herr Hitler only came to the last 40 pages of the book specifically in the GOODBYE TO BERLIN.
The last few pages of the second story were haunting as it describes Berlin during the rise of Adolf Hitler.
Each of those characters seems to dramatize to the reader how was Berlin during the rise of Adolf Hitler.
With a number of Holocaust books I have read so far, this one gave me an idea what happened before Hitler killed the Jews.
Isherwood’s style is starkly magnificent, blending dark humor with the deepest human tragedies.
His view of Berlin and its people just before the rise of the Nazis is merciless in its realism, but at the same time, it is colored with an unconditional love for the various people he meets, belonging to all sorts of different social cliques in Berlin.
Though his sympathies lie distinctly with the marginalized classes, Isherwood does not shirk from portraying his characters with an objective accuracy.
And yet, his love for them is infectious, and they stay with one long after the last page has been read, and the book re-shelved.
I wanted to like this book....or maybe it's a collection. Isherwood was only a distant observer.....he conveyed no emotional involvement with the changes going on in Germany or the people around him. His detachment became wearing and made the stories boring, and I kept picturing Michael York instead of Isherwood.
I have to get over this bias I have against books that are more than, I don't know, forty years old? It's short-sighted and preposterous. I mean, I'm sure plenty of older books are dry and boring, but this one was scintillating and sultry and compelling and great.
A collection of autobiographical short stories that are the basis for the musical Cabaret. 1931 Berlin is a bit too recognizable these days for my comfort...
Basically as funny, sad, mordant and frightening as I remember it. Isherwood has a keen eye for how quickly and easily things can tip from the mundane into sheer political horror.
In contrast to the circus-like marketing hype, I was somewhat underwhelmed by both novels.The first novel, "Mr. Norris Changes Trains," is an undisguised lover's memento by Isherwood to Gerald Hamilton, an eccentric charlatan who served as the inspiration for the principal character of Mr. Norris and with whom the young author shared an ill-advised mésalliance.
If Isherwood truly had been the devout Communist he claimed to be, he would have been arrested and imprisoned much like Otto and other supporting players in the novel.In contrast to "Mr. Norris Changes Trains," Isherwood's second tale "Goodbye to Berlin" is mercifully bereft of the parlor-socialism that undermined his earlier work.
One day they are yelling at you about leaving the wrong waste can by the driveway or not cleaning your windows and the next day they are inviting you for a beer or some schnapps.Still Isherwood's Berlin is the one which gave us Cabaret and the first thing I noticed, this after four selections, is that only "Berlin Stories" was well named.
It all seemed very restrained.As a result, one never gets quite why the title character is doing anything: he is merely present and fills in the scenes but it is maddening to read about someone with commitment issues of any kind AND less passion about anything happening around him.
The collecting of short stories/ charachter reflections by an aspiring writer, ex-pat, English teacher is a familiar account of adaptation and cross-cultural investigation although is set in one of the most fecund periods in modern history.A chronicle of Berlin in 1932- 34 and the precursory atmosphere that would lead into the offical sanctioning of genocide which was the establishment of Nazi Germany.The works are diary excerpts and accounts of interactions with accquaintances published retrospectively.
The sense is of a vicarious and accquaintance, not accomplice, but accquaintance.The works are in dry witted prudent English tone.
Liza Minelli's 'Sally Bowles' must have walked right off a 1973 screening of that great musical, 'Cabaret' and into Isherwood's Berlin of the early 1930s.
I mean nobody...can see them.""I know darling...But it makes me feel so marvelously sensual..."Sally is stellar, she lights up the book, which all in all, is sad.
Isherwood writes:  "The political moral is certainly depressing: these people [Berliners] could be made to believe in anybody or anything," writes Isherwood about the situation in Germany in the early 1930s.
(Unfortunately, we learn nothing from history.) Overall, one wonders why Isherwood would even bother to invent, or right about, or hang around with most of the characters here except the delightful Sally.
