https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420531.Eight_Lectures_on_Yoga
I learned most of my knowledge on Yoga in this small book!
Outstanding expository of yogic philosophy stripped of dogma. Further this analyses the essence of magick and religious mysticism. The language is extremely readable, despite the occasional joke inserted pertaining to specifically English or early 20th century culture. An essential read for the serious student of magick and yoga.
Consice , simple, and vital to any "Thelamites" curriculum vitae. It is too often forgotten, overlooked, or simply ignored that Crowley ended his life as a Mystic and viewed Yoga as an aim "Higher" than Magick. A goal to be achieved after one learned all one could from Magick. One of his last books..
Read the Finnish edition to see how it is translated. An excellent and even humorous book, a cross-treatise on Yoga, metaphysics and mathematics and their internal relations. A must-read.
Genius. Along with Book IV: Part II, Patanjali, and the works of Vivekenanda comprise all one needs in the way of yoga.
This book is of interest as its author is a very controversial Occultist that managed the Queens and courts of England with Alchemy. He was seen in levitation, and there was news of him being an accomplished yogi, with skills to support his practises in magic.In a nutshell, he brings out keynotes of 'control,' 'breath' and 'mantra,' involuntary movements as 'frog' jumping and places it in a yoga contect. Actually he seems located in Thelema. The book frequently moves away from yoga and into ramblings.Lacks focus or arrangement that should have been present at his level.
No nonsense, or total nonsense!
In this classic work he successfully achieves two objectives: dispels the idea that yoga is a triviality and then manages to get across philosophical essentials without burdening the reader with romantic foreign terms.
Except for the terms "Yama" and "Niyama" which he gets across with usual masterful prose, undisguised awe & fitting reverence for the culture of an obviously advanced, albeit ancient, human culture.Yoga is probably not what you think it is.
If you don't read this work you will remain ignorant of an essential strand of human wisdom.

This is hands down the best practical book on yoga ever written in the west and the best introduction to magic and mysticism I've ever come across.
I first read 8LOY more than 15 years ago, when I was a teenager but revisited it many times since.
Even the first time, I found it very easy to understand unlike most of the other books by Crowley that were simply incomprehensible to me at the time.
Crowley was a genius, many decades if not a full century ahead of his time.
Besides yoga, he comments on philosophy, mathematics, quantum mechanics and even cybernetics.
Crowley doing what he sometimes does best: clear, lucid expositions, this time on yoga. If you fail to come away with the true understanding of yoga after reading this, well, may I suggest www.girlsinyogapants.com/ YELLOWBELLIES!
Crowley doing what he sometimes does best: clear, lucid expositions, this time on yoga. If you fail to come away with the true understanding of yoga after reading this, well, may I suggest www.girlsinyogapants.com/‎ YELLOWBELLIES!
Much more on the philosophies of yoga than the actual practice. If that's what you're looking for, I'd suggest checking out the first half of Book 4. None the less though this was quite a good read and shed light on a few other things within the general scope of Thelema.
Not incredibly clear or to the point, though Crowley explores some useful ideas in the big picture of Yoga. This is not a book about asana, or even meditation or pranayama. Each lecture seems to examine an approach to Unity or Oneness. Yoga.
średniawka. nudzi. (sidenote: czyżby się wypaliła w czytaniu po Ulissesie?!)
Excellent little volume...
