https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242669.We_Die_Alone
Have you just read a book that has put you in the dumps?
Maybe he showed a bit too much engagement; I prefer neutral narrators but heck he never wrecked the story, and I was completely glued to it once I had stated it.
If you are just a teeny bit in the mood for a survival story - pick this.
I liked it even better than Touching the Void: The True Story of One Man's Miraculous Survival and will try Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster to compare all three.
People need books like this.
This book tells the true story of a group of expatriate Norwegian commandos who sailed in a fishing boat from northern England to arctic Norway, with the aim of organizing and supplying the Norwegian resistance.
They were betrayed soon after arrival; the Nazis ambushed them and only one man, Jan Baalsrud, survived (though wounded) and escaped.
The book tells the story of his flight across Norway to exile in Sweden.
Baalsrud suffered extreme exposure, survived an avalanche, had frostbite and snowblindness; but aided by a remarkable string of people who quietly risked their lives to aid his flight from the pursuing Nazis, he lived to tell a remarkable story.
The men are impersonating fishermen but are really aiming to help the Norwegians with the Nazi occupation that has overtaken their land (Norway was neutral but that didn't bother the Germans).
A tight line to follow.But when a man's mind is numbed by sudden disaster, he acts less by reason than by reflex.This survival tale is so extraordinary that, to be honest, I didn't really believe it had happened.
The fear of Jan, the man on the run, if his goal to survive ends up in others being killed.
He begins WWII as a courier between Stockholm and Oslo, gets caught by the Swedes, imprisoned, and then manages to make his way to England and join a group of other Norwegians being trained to return to their country and fight the Nazis.
That’s where the book begins, with Jan and the other men on his mission approaching the Norwegian coast.
Howarth did a wonderful job of finding an amazing story, researching it thoroughly, and then writing it in a way that uses good principles of storytelling so that this true story reads like a novel.We Die Alone is one of those books I recommend for just about everyone.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Throughout childhood books along the lines of "Norway and the Norwegians" were recommended to me by parents, grandparents, collateral relatives and friends of the family.
This was particularly the case when I was in Norway itself, visiting Mom's parents.Fin Graff, Mom's dad, had been born in Eau Claire, Wisconsin.
Einar was Dad's father, making my parents cousins.I went to Norway to visit the grandparents at ages 2-3, and 10-11.
No problem, Morfar Fin had an extensive collection of books, many of them in English, which he encouraged me to read, one of them being We Die Alone.
Add that to the fact that I was planning a winter trip to Norway, and this was the perfect winter read.
The tale begins 1943, in Nazi-occupied Norway, with a group of young men of the Norwegian resistance planning a mission to attack of German air base.
The mission comes to a bad end, and three of the resistance fighters are killed, leaving the central character, Jan Baalsrud, injured and fleeing the Nazis.
The ordeal he endures as he ultimately escapes -- almost unbelievable at times, but convincingly documented -- is a harrowing tale of survival in brutal elements.
We Die Alone is the story of a Norwegian named Jan Baalsrud who, along with a team of Norwegian commandos trained by the British, sailed in a disguised fishing boat from the Shetland Islands to Norway in a mission to sabotage German forces during World War II.
Unfortunately, things go horribly awry, and Baalsrud, the only surviving member of his team, is forced to make a desperate escape through Arctic terrain crawling with German soldiers.
In a series of horrific experiences that reads like a cross between Endurance and Touching the Void, Baalsrud faces avalanches, hypothermia, starvation, and being forced to cut off nine of his gangrenous toes with a dull knife.
The movie takes place during World War II and depicts the true story of Jan Baalsruds amazing escape from the German army from the coast of Northern Norway and across the border to the neutral country Sweden.
Jan Baalsrud is the only one who manages to escape and sets off towards Sweden through the enormous amounts of snow and the steep mountains of Norway.
The locals are constantly trying to get him over to Sweden, but German patrols and the winter storms delay their departure.This movie Nine Lives (1957) Ni liv (original title) is available at You Tube.Director: Arne SkouenDavid Howarth	 	 book "We Die Alone"James L.
Loving world travel, the experience is always enhanced by good airplane reading that helps me learn more about the destination. Named after my Norweigan great-grandmother, I know the source of my stoicism -- yet this book taught me so much more about Norway during WWII and how herioc individuals fought and resisted occupation while the allied leaders deployed troops elsewhere. A fictional account of endurance like this would not be believed. This book -- and these people -- are worth reading and saluting. Enjoy.
Once he escapes the Germans' initial search, he encounters a series of patriotic Norwegians willing to risk their lives and sacrifice much to get him a step closer to safety.These characters and their sacrifice drive the book as much as Jan does.
The next time something seems hopeless or too difficult, I can think of Jan, alone, frostbitten, starving, unable to move, on a barren Norwegian mountain, and that he lived to be 71 years old.
If this weren’t a true story, no one would buy it as fiction.
The book opens in the spring of 1943, as Norway is suffering under Nazi occupation.
What follows – frostbite, snow blindness, avalanches, treachery, heroism, starvation, and, always, miles and miles of Arctic snow – kept my mouth hanging open most of time.
Almost as astonishing as Jan’s story is the will of the people who help him, the danger they faced knowing what would happen to their families if they were found out.
Howarth’s prose is a bit bland, but perhaps that was intentional, as the story is breathtaking enough.
Truth is stranger than fiction - that is so true, particularly in this case - what an amazing story!
During World War II, in 1943 Jan Baalsrud along with 11 other Norwegian men sailed from the U.K. where they had trained and headed to Nazi-occupied Norway to destroy a German air control tower and support the Norwegian resistance.
Eleven men were captured or died - only Jan Ballsrud managed to escape.
This is a story of the latter.
This story was amazing!
It was recommended by my friend Martha as a book club selection and because I'm not that into non-fiction, much less war stories, I was kind of hesitant to read it.
I'm glad she recommended it and I'm glad I read it - I've recommended or talked about this book so much since then!This guy's story is so unbelievable that if it were fiction, or a Hollywood movie, you'd turn it off b/c it would seems like total bullshit.
I highly recommend it.
Amazing story, badly written. Howarth takes what should be a fascinating account of a man's survival and manages to make it almost unbearable to read because of the book's lack of organization and sloppy sentence structure. I admit that I was also only able to read it a bit at a time because Jan's story is so painful to read. I rated the book only three stars because the story deserved better treatment than Howarth gave it. If you liked books like Slavomir Rawicz's The Long Walk you'll want to finish this one.
Terrific book about an exciting rescue in WWII occupied Norway.
His fortitude and optimism reminded me of Louis in Unbroken, but the Norwegian patriots who risked all to help a stranger in their German occupied country are the true heroes.
Howarth does a great job describing the frigid landscape and conditions of arctic Norway and some idea of the life of the people who manage to live there.
I'd like to know more about the Lapp people and wonder how accurate this 1955 description of them is today.
I'm glad I wasn't put off by the title We Die Alone which to me doesn't really doesn't fit the book.
It might be a non fiction book, but it reads like a very suspenseful espionage novel. When a group of soldiers get dropped by boat in Norway and are betrayed very quickly, only 1 survives, Jan Baalsrud. Wounded he escapes the Nazi’s that try to capture them. He escapes and stays alive thanks to all kinds of help courageous people, Very interesting story, if you are interested in WWII, resistance, and survival. I enjoyed it, but thought it sometimes a bit long.
The title calls this story "epic", and it truly is. In the beginning I wasn't sure how this would work for me, but as soon as I got around 25% into the book I was just flying through it.
"We Die Alone" sounds like such a guy-guy, survival book cliche'!
I can just picture the park bench conversation, “Hey Dave, what’cha reading?” With my brow furrowed, I’d grit my teeth and half whisper, half growl, “...WE DIE ALONE!!!” Please don't let the blunt title fool you, this book is the real deal.
The vintage story reads like adrenaline-infused fiction.
It starts out as a sparse, suspenseful WW2 commando mission and turns into an incredible arctic survival story.
Near Perfect, 5-Stars!
The fifth star is for the timeless prose.
This is a remarkable story!
It's devastating, inspiring, and almost unbelievable.
Jan's sheer strength of spirit and survival instinct, not to mention his ability to withstand extreme cold temperatures is beyond comprehension.
And the lengths to which people went to save his life, despite the danger to themselves and their families was truly heartwarming.
Amazing!I read this book while "roughing it" in an Army tent during an exercise.
It was appropriate for me, as I was feeling like I had it rough, going without some of the luxuries of life I take for granted (like an indoor toilet).
We Die Alone is an as-told-to memoir of Jan Balsrud, a Norwegian trained as an agent provocateur in England who sails from Shetland to Norway's northern coast with his 12-man contingent.
Jan like the guerrillas in VietNam was easily able to outwit his German pursuers, and though his trek to freedom had no direct military effect, it did mobilize like-minded Norwegians to acts of courage, selflessness, and kindness.
In the end, Jan was little more than a flag to the Norwegian cause, and his survival was a monument both to himself and his fellow patriots.
The sheer physiology of this story is mind-blowing! That and the fact that never before had I thought about this nomadic people who live with Reindeer (Santa's village excluded)- the Lapps. (Though the author gets low marks for cultural competency since they come off as, essentially, subhuman.)I had trouble connecting with this book fully though. I got it as a kindle daily deal, and the ebook has all of the pictures at the end and I wish I had seen them earlier- it may have helped me picture this totally foreign landscape.
An extraordinary story of courage,determination and survival. Taking place in Norway during WWII, not the usual locale. Learned so much about life in Norway, the rugged land, the people, the culture.Written in a very straightforward manner. An easy read...I couldn't put it down.
It was painful at times to contemplate the misery that Jan Baalsrud would have lived through in this remarkable tale of survival and courage. I have to admit, though, that there were times when I considered that he was, towards the end, almost an outside observer to his fate. He clearly must have had a truly remarkable time when he lost his sight in the blizzard and went several days blindly wandering. A hat tip to Tish Nordvall for the recommendation.
Incredible survivor story of a Norweigan born UK trained Commando. The self sacrificing locals who helped him when the mission went wrong, the Lapps and his own luck needs to be applauded, they faced obstacles at each stage, be it the Germans or the inhospitable weather but the locals did ferry him across to the Swedish border. Jan owns his life to them, his luck and the never say die spirit.
A real life adventure; if you are not a reader, you need to give justice to this real life revenant Jan Baalsrud’s extraordinary tale of survival by watching his movie ‘The 12th man’.
OMG! This book was originally published in 1955, but was re-released in 1999. I found it on the clearance shelf at my local bookstore. It's a story that is best read in the dead and cold of winter, so one can relate to the circumstances the survivor endured. If I ever think my life is tough and things aren't going well, I will only have to recall Jan Baalsrud and his tale.
This is the true story of Jan Baalsrud who, in 1943, escaped the Nazis in the far northern reaches of Norway.
Jan was the sole survivor of a group of Norwegian patriots trained in England to return to their homeland with explosives to destabilize the Nazi strongholds and recruit other Norwegians to fight to regain their country.
Jan made it to shore and managed to escape after scrambling up a steep, snowy hillside.
He shot and killed a Gestapo officer who was leading the would-be captors.
His only choice was swimming across a channel to another island.
He did that and narrowly survived hypothermia after he was helped by patriots living on the island.
This is an interesting tale of endurance and escape in Norway during WWII.
Most of the book focuses on the generosity and risks taken by strangers to help the lead character, Jan, get away from the Nazis.
My understanding of northern Norwegian geography consists of pointing to the upper 50% of Norway on a globe.
A map somewhere in this book (perhaps with a Family Circus-esque dotted line of Jan's travels) would really help.
If you're going to include pictures of mountains and fjords in the book, why not also include a map?2.
Other sections of the book suffer from the same problem.
To be honest, I don't know much about Norway's experiences during WW2, other than that they were occupied by the Germans, so this book was a bit of an education.This account centres around a Norwegian man, trained in England, as an agent to help raise resistance and insurgency against the Nazis occupying their land.
Injured and alone, he sets about trying to garner help and support from the local population, which is hampered by suspicion, the terrain and weather, the lack of safe and reliable communication systems, and the ever present Nazis.
It is as much the story of the people who helped, as it is about the man who helped him survive.
