https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/304253.The_Pastel_City
Soon, however, the warriors' plans for Queen and Country begin to wither, characters you have come to love fail and die, and you begin to sense that--even in the third volume of this trilogy (if this indeed be a trilogy)--nothing will turn out alright, even in the end.I give The Pastel City my highest praise because Harrison not only writes a poetic prose unusually concentrated and compact, but he also summons up--when he deigns to use it--a narrative genius for clear and concise expression.
John Harrison since the aging champion radiates knightly virtue and is a keen observer of beauty both in nature and in art.The New Earth: Viriconium and the Pastel City arose five hundred years following the collapse of the Afternoon Cultures with their highly technological and scientific achievements, cultures such as our own which left a vast wasteland of rust and decay.
Indeed, in this post-modern world, it’s become almost trite to riff on The Waste Land and it’s world built around the sad, intellectual man who regrets that all meaning has been stripped away, and he’s left to figure it out on his own.However, fantasy has long been lagging behind, particularly highly-visible epic fantasy, like Tolkien’s, which behaves as if existentialism and skepticism never happened, instead inundating the reader in a top-down, authoritative voice full of message and allegory and obvious symbolism--though Tolkien himself often denied that this was the case, as a believer, to him the real world was a symbolic allegory.The 'dying Earth' is the same old trick of fantasy, to take a state of mind and literalize it, to produce a setting that reflects it, and through which the author can explore it.
My god, the language. The names. tegeus-Cromis! Canna Moidart! I was underlining whole pages—copying them out. Nominally, this is a book about a poet-warrior roaming a depleted planet. In truth, I think it's a book about how beautiful and bad-ass English can be.
The Pastel City does have many of the standard features you can find in a great number of fantasy novels: a brooding poet-warrior alone in his castle, a young and beautiful queen under siege, a bad (and older) queen, a cranky dwarf, a traitor, etc.
In other words, The Pastel City is clearly operating under a different fantasy template, which is Harrison’s own, and quickly (the book is only 175 pages long) becomes a sci-fi novel, with mechanical birds, Terminator-like brain eaters with electric axes, and even an alien/magician/scientist who lives in a high tower.
The current citizens of Viriconium are baffled by what they’ve dug up, but they have no idea what any of it is for.tegeus-Cromis, “who fancies himself a better poet than swordsman,” used to be Viriconium’s best fighter until he left the Pastel City after King Methven died.
As the men travel north, they discover that the Afternoon Cultures left behind a lot more than piles of rusting metal.The Pastel City, published in 1971, is the first part (only 158 pages) of M.
The first book in the Viriconium cycle, The Pastel City holds up in that classic seventies $.75 mass-market paperback on a rain afternoon way. I'm an unabashed fan of all of the Viriconium stuff, and while this singular book is merely a preamble to the greater things to come, it can be read on its own, like a lighter and more picaresque Book of the New Sun.
This opening salvo in the  Viriconium  series benefits from Harrison's icily fertile imagination and innate writing chops - but the latter was still at a raw, developing stage back in 1971 when The Pastel City was originally published, and there really isn't much to distinguish it from other rote fantasy from the same period. A decrepit, grim, and feral atmosphere - reminiscent of Moorcock, or even Glen Cook's  The Black Company  in its earlier incarnations - helps, but it cannot fully compensat
The only real standout is Tomb the Dwarf, essentially Chucky from Child's Play with a head more stretched and longer hair, encased in an eleven-foot high titanium exoskeleton and wielding a flesh-slicing energy axe in a maniacally gleeful fashion.Eschewing the fantasy staples of sorcery and demons for a technology and automata left behind by the dead Afternoon Cultures, The Pastel City is another entry in the world-weary dystopia of an aged, decayed Earth which underlies such masterpieces as Gene Wolfe's 
It all pointed to Harrison's budding promise: The Pastel City is the creation of a young, aspiring apprentice; it is with the sequel A Storm of Wings that he would fully come into his own.
harrison is a wonderful writer-- evocative, sweeping, musical, and strange-- and this is the best book i've ever read about knights in the far future fighting ancient brain-eating robots. my only complaint is that it wasn't longer. not at the end, but in the middle.
Viriconium no es una Ciudad Eterna e Inmutable, es una ciudad mercurial, inaprensible, que cambia continuamente, incluso de nombre y que progresivamente se va revelando como éterea y onírica, desapareciendo ante el empuje de la realidad.La edición de Bibliópolis adapta al castellano la edición del año 2000, la del Masterworks antes mencionada, en la que se intercalan los cuentos de "Viriconium Nights" entre las novelas, siguiendo algo parecido a una cronología interna de la saga, algo que dada la naturaleza del Tiempo en el relato de Harrison, resulta un pelín complicado.
Por cierto, un saludo a Manuel de los Reyes que en mi opinión, aquí hace una labor excepcional en la traducción, ¡enhorabuena!Tras el relato "Caballeros de Viriconium" en el que Harrison trata sobre la naturaleza cambiante de la Ciudad, viene la novela corta "The Pastel City".
His writing is the closest to Peake's I've seen yet, both stylistically and in his availability to write some of the most beautiful prose I've read.I would like to share my favorite passage that shows Harrison's grasp on setting and beautiful descriptive language.[In the water-thickets, the path wound tortuously between umber iron-bogs, albescent quicksands of aluminum and magnesium oxides, and sumps of cuprous blue or permanganate mauve fed by slow, gelid streams and fringed by silver reeds and tall black grasses.
I did like each of those series better than this book and thus, in comparison to those works, ended up at the 3.5 star rating.
Briefly, the story is based in a far future, Quasimodo medieval world that is littered with technology from ages past, some of which can be made to work.
The writing is good, the story is basic but interesting and at 150 pages, it is a fast read and never boring.
I will certainly read the next book in the series because the world building has the makings of a 5 star gem.
Además, he de decir que Harrison empezó su carrera como escritor en la revista de aquél, New Worlds.La historia está protagonizada por lord tegeus-Cromis, que se considera mejor poeta que espadachín, y por el resto de caballeros del Rey Methven, cuyo fallecimiento provocó que éstos se separasen.
Pero ahora Viriconium, y con ella La Ciudad Pastel, donde reside la hija de Methven, y ahora reina, están en peligro: Canna Moidart, prima de la reina, quiere el reinar a toda costa, y para ello se ha aliado con los bárbaros del norte, y lo más peligroso, ha resucitado una tecnología que se creía desaparecida.
This book, "The Pastel City," published in 1971, fits squarely into this genre, but is distinguished by the gem-like quality of its writing, elevating it above the average pulp of late twentieth-century science fiction.As with all Dying Earth books, the story takes place in the distant future.
And there are better modern Dying Earth books than "The Pastel City," most notably Gene Wolfe’s exquisite "The Book of the New Sun." Still, reading this book is worthwhile, and like all good fiction, it leaves the reader with a sense of transport, if only for a little while.
Short, sweet, and fun.I've been keeping an eye out for fantasy that isn't boring, long winded, badly written, filled with cliches, and all the other things that the genre seems ridden with, and while The Pastel City may not come across as entirely original - for it certainly skirts along with many of the worn conventions of the genre - it does so with more depth, a lively angle, and a wry smile.Harrison's writing is worth mentioning too, because it's solid, colourful prose that's a pleasure to read and moves us through narrow lanes, up wind blown escarpments, and into the sunken ruins of old cities with a swiftness and efficiency that keeps the story thumping along without neglecting to paint it in rich and vivid prose.
I can't review this book.
I'll just let China Mieville talk about the two writers who had the greatest influence on him."I don't have space to thank all the writers who've influenced me, but I want to mention two whose work is a constant source of inspiration and astonishment.
Harrison is a master of brevity, in both his seminal, affecting descriptions of his world, and his natural story telling.If anything, I read this book for its language, rather than the plot.
Read this, now.
Maybe 3.5. Pretty cool fantasy yarn that has a lot of potential and, from what I'm told, things get much better in the subsequent books. The prose was powerful and beautiful and sometimes staggering, but the narrative was pretty standard fantasy adventure stuff, and the characters were interesting, though mostly painted in broadstrokes. Looking forward to the next one, though. I hear things get wild.
The best of Harrison's early period work. Not too heavy on the jaded world weariness to be unbearable. Nice descriptions and action.
M John Harrison's The Pastel City is speculative fiction at its best.
There are elements of SciFi and high fantasy blended adroitly together and, though written in 1971, it's themes of environmental destruction through human carelessness and hubris are very current.
In the ensuing war, ancient technology is awakened that has already ruined the world once and threatens to do so again.
High fantasy tropes to be sure, but Harrison has deftly merged these with imaginative technology.
Many features of the best, edgiest current fantasy were done better and more economically by Harrison.
The Pastel City should be part of any speculative fiction reader's (and especially author's) library.
This is the first of a series of four books involving residents of the fabulous city of Viriconium, centre of an Empire heir to the legacy of the seventeen Afternoon Cultures which have plundered and despoiled the earth for millennia.
The novel suffers to a minor extent from some overworked clichés of Fantasy Fiction: the swords, the horses, the rings, although the dwarf concept is given a fresh and original twist in the form of Tomb, an engineering genius who compensates for his small size by constructing a robot exoskeleton using rediscovered technology.
John Harrison's science fantasy The Pastel City ought not to work as well as it does.
But Harrison's first novel in the Viriconium series succeeds largely because of elegant diction and incredible action, which form a whole exponentially more fun than the sum of its derivative parts.
Viriconium, that metropolis whose multicolored spires bear ancient glyphs none know how to read, stands at a bridge in time.
Style is not substance, and yet what lends The Pastel City much of its panache is Harrison's stately prose.
Instead, seek out a used copy of The Pastel City from AbeBooks or alibris.
Actually, I'm not sure if calling it sci-fi is quite accurate, since it it has some features of fantasy (swords, warring queens, barbarian Norsemen, a bloodthirsty dwarf, an order of knights, etc.), but since it takes place on what seems to be a far-future Earth, millennia after some kind of post-industrial ecological collapse, and ancient technology figures prominently in the plot, sci-fi seems appropriate.
A lot of the basic elements feel familiar, and I'm sure those more well versed in fantasy and sci-fi could embark on a great deal of "reference-spotting" of where certain things were borrowed from as well as what it influenced.
It climbed up a quarter point and then another quarter point as I spent more time thinking.The language here is really beautiful - lots of bits of sceneric (yep, just made that up) poetry.
The dwarf's power armor actually "feels" like it belongs in a fantasy, if that makes any sense.Parts of the narrative could definitely have slipped into slog (especially in the modern style), but Harrison kept things moving along at enough of a clip for me to never quite catch bored.Truthfully, I'm still not quite sure what to make of it.
Midway through I wasn't expecting to continue reading the series but now...
In which I wax lyrical about The Pastel City, while comprehensively dissing the follow-up Viriconium Nights.This book was published so long ago that it didn't have blurbs on the back cover!
King Methven of Viriconium gathered, before the action starts, a group around him who had special talents, like Lord tegeus-Cromis, who 'fancied himself a better poet than swordsman', Norvin Trinor the strategist, Benedict Paucemanly who took a crystal launch and perhaps attempted a moon-landing, and others.
Or like a bad Stephen King book (not a good one).As highly as I recommend The Pastel City, is exactly as lowly as I warn you off Viriconium Nights.
But as you proceed on the book gains depth and casts its own strange spell quite different from Moorcock or anything else in the field.
Harrison is more existentialist than Moorcock, but he is not without sympathy for his characters.
Harrison's word choice here is superior to most fantasy novels; he manages to convey in a few sentences what other authors take pages and pages to explicate.
In a sense, if I can say this, The Pastel City is to most fantasy novels what The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly is to western films.

Odlicna knjiga!
Ili bi mozda pre sobzirom na broj strana mogao da kazem odlicna prica.
Rastuzilo me je jedino to sto sam saznao da je ovo prvi od nekoliko delova u serijalu, i da je kao takav jedino on preveden kod nas i to daleke 1989.
Broj strana moram priznati itekako utice na kvalitet dela.
Velika je steta sto pisac naprosto skace sa jedne lokacije na drugu i sa jednog zapleta na drugi, bilo je tu prostora za dobih 300 strana!
Jedna od najboljih "dzepnih" knjiga koje sam ikada procitao.
Excellent first novel by Harrison. Follows some standard fantasy scifi conventions, but displays a level of vocabulary and technical skill out of range for nearly all beginners.  As good or better than first novels by Disch, Delany, Ballard, or Wolfe, however takes less chances and is formally more conventional. Harrison's debut is very promising technically, but doesn't display the sheer weirdness his contemporaries were able to harness in later more mature works.  I look forward to reading more Harrison.
I'm slowly picking away at the 'Fantasy Masterworks' collection I torrented. This is total New Wave style fantasy a la Moorcock. Great post-apocalyptic travelogue with an epic tale, but not a million pages long. If Tolkien wasn't boring or obsessed with country bumpkins, imperialism, and good vs evil. tegeus-Cromis and Tomb the Dwarf are a couple of characters to put into my personal pantheon alongside Elric, Muad'dib, Kid (Dhalgren), and Hagbard Celine. I dunno why but I really dig this kind of stuff.
All those times you were in second hand bookshops, scouring through the penny novels on the sci-fi shelves, to try and find a novel that you just know has to exist - the one that has it all: a tortured warrior poet hero, a quest, fantastic adversaries etc - well this is it. One to read and reread through the years.
