https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/708124.Chronicle_in_Stone
The story is set in Gjirokaster, Albania, a city of stone perched on such steep topography that a drunk can slip off the road on one street and land on a roof of a street below.
He was born in 1936, so this coming of age story is set around WW II and the events leading up to it.
Gjirokaster changed hands from Italians to Greeks many times in just a few years.
While in Italian hands it was bombed numerous times by the Allies.
It's a fascinating book, well-written and a rare opportunity to look into Albanian culture.Top photo from SarandAlbania.com.
أعمق وأصدق وأغرب قصص الحرب هي عندما يرويها لك الأطفال..سيخبرك أياها بطريقته البريئة العفوية المنشودة دوماً بقصص رمادية مغرية جداً ..إنهم يفهون الحرب كلعبة من ألعاب الكبار لا أكثريتهامسون في الطرقات عن أخبار الحرب وعن أصوات الجنون ..يصنعون كلمات جديدة , يعبثون بإحلامهميروون عطش طفولتهم في الحديث عن الأشياء التي لم يألفوها في حياتهم قبل الحربإنها حكايا مربكة صادمة تتغلل في الذاكرة لتنجب ألماً كبيراً في المستقبل لا يمكن أن يزول أثره للأبد...
Although fiction,this book is in fact about the author’s own experiences during the Second World War, when he was a child growing up in Gjirokastër, Albania.
In 1939 Mussolini occupied Albania, but thereafter control switched several times between the Italians and the Greeks.
One might think that such a time and place would not be the setting for a book filled with humor.
I read the introduction after finishing the book.
.Here follows just one example of the humor found in this book:The last Italians left during the first week of November, four days after the evacuation of the aerodrome.
Theofania said that a man at the next table was Ismail Kadare, one of Albania's most famous writers.
I'd never heard of Ismail Kadare before, but having set eyes on him, if not actually having spoken to him, I was curious about his books, and when I found one in a bookshop, The file on H, I read it and enjoyed it.
Crompton's books reflect adult amusement at children's interpretations of the adult world, and so they are more detached from the characters.
I'd never have read his books if we had not, by chance, being sitting at a table next to him at a cafe.
It contains deeper meanings and messages, most of which would not have been lost on his Albanian readers who were living under the heel of a repressive dictatorship.Later on in the book, we are told of the arrival of the Communist partisans, who were under the leadership of Enver Hoxha, and we read things that may well have been risky to express whilst living, as the author was, under a repressive Stalinist regime, where any criticism of it was not allowed.
I've been in a reading rut lately.
"Chronicle in Stone" seemed like a novel that wasn't too long, so I chose it to get me out of this rut.What can I say?
If you forget that the narrator is a child, a lot of the magic gets lost and you won't enjoy this book.
At the beginning, I sometimes forgot that the narrator was a child, so I was thinking to myself, there's a lot of magical realism in this book.
I didn't love this book, but I think it got me out of the reading rut.
Another amazing story from Kadare. The city of his birth is brought to life through a child's eyes during the various occupations and bombings that tormented the place during WWII. The most poetic prose and imaginative imagery highlight the story and make it one of the best I have ever read. The story overflows with beautiful, lovely, interesting characters and thoughts that could only come from a child's mind, so innocent and endearing that despite what is going on around him, he still knows what is important: his family, his friends, and his magnificent city.

His only awareness of the outside world, in fact, comes from a book loaned to him by an older boy who is a student and something of an intellectual.
The young narrator is drawn to the book because it's cast of characters includes ghosts and witches and murderers.
The older boy tells him MacBeth is way too advanced for him, but he takes it anyway and falls under its spell.
Somehow his world is real in the same way that MacBeth is real--mythic and senseless and yet with a profound meaning one can only sense dimly.The prose, in translation, is beautiful.
Me ha gustado mucho esta historia narrada desde la perspectiva del autor cuando era niño.
Gracias a su narración he podido saber más de la guerra desde el punto de vista de los ciudadanos de un país pequeño acostumbrado desde sus origenes a invasiones extranjeras.La forma de contarlo está llena de lirismo (a pesar del tema que trata).
Me han gustado muchos pasajes del libro, os pongo uno de ellos donde se describe la ciudad: " ...ciudad asombrosa, donde se podía ir caminando y, de desearlo, alargar un poco la mano y colgar el sombrero de la aguja de un minarete.
I wanted to love this more. The ideas and the character were marbled with genius, particularly some of the anthropomorphism. It made me think in moments of One Hundred Years of Solitude. But the language often bored me. It often lacked lyricism, and often seemed disjointed. Maybe it's a thing with translation -- this specific one or translation from this language. If the prose had sparkled, I could have fallen in love with this. Very interesting, in any case, but harder work than it might have been.
لا سبب لاقتحام عالم كاداريه، سوى أنه روائي "الأستاذ/ فهد الفهد" المفضل.كرواية أولى، وبشهادة صديقنا بأنها "أضعف ماكتب".. أجدها متوسطة.لو بنى شخصيات أقوى بجانب الطفل ودجدجو، لكانت بالفعل ملحمة.تبقى جميلة.
Immediately, one of the most captivating things for me about Ismail Kadare’s Chronicle in Stone was how the narrator, a nameless boy, distinguishes old women as old crones:The “old crones” were consulted.
However, Grandmother’s definitive test that proved her a crone was when she stays home during the German invasion as the people from Gjirokaster flee to the neighboring villages:Clues has been perceptible for some time.
The young boy narrator believes that the villagers’ purpose in life is to provide food to the city people.
This is autobiographical as Kadare says in interviews how he fell in love with reading Macbeth as a young boy in his hometown in Gjirokaster, the same as the narrator.
Chronicle in Stone records these events as the war slowly demands more and more sacrifice from the families and residents of the town; through these hardships emerges a portrait of the city, the time and the people.This is the first book of Kadare's I've read; although I liked it, I can't say I thought it was compelling, or enchanting--buzz words used in the blurbs on the back.
I know so little about Albania that I had hoped to get a sense of the culture--and while there was definitely some of that, there was also a disingenuousness to it that sounded stale to me.
تحكي هذه الرواية كيف يواجه سكان القرية الحجرية في إلبانيا في فترة العشرينيات من القرن الماضي الإختلافات السياسية التي تسطو على محيطها تباعًا ، حيث كانت نهبة للمد الإيطالي و الألماني وكيف انتهى بها الحال فريسة للتوجهات الشيوعية ، حين يصف كاداريه مدينته الحجرية على لسان ولد صغير يستشعر جمالية ما حوله و يتدفق بسلاسة كتدفق الحياة و يستغرب مما يدور حوله من أحداث تفوق فهمه فتخلق ثغرات مظلمة و مشفرة في ذاكرته لا يقوى على استدراك مغزاها ولكنه رغم كل ذلك يحاول الاستمتاع قدر الإمكان في حياته ، كان وصفه يقارب وصف مدينة تركية حيث كانت ألبانيا تقع تحت السيطرة العثمانية لفترة طويلة .
It was hard to believe that under this powerful carapace the tender flesh of life survived and repro
The last third of the book introduces more fully the partisans - those for the King, those for a republic and the Communists.A town where the people seem to live happily with the only conflicts coming from family feuds, fear of magic and sex (homosexuality, hermaphrodites, pre-marriage sex, prostitution are all covered).
The old people have lived through the Ottoman Empire and have seen a lot of violence.Kadare brings life to stones of the town, raindrops, roads, rivers, days of the weeks.
قصة مدينة الحجر انتهيت منها قبل قليل، والمفترض أن أؤجل الكتابة عنها، حتى اكتب عن ثلاثة كتب سبقتها وتنتظر على مكتبي، ولكن سأكتب عنها، لأن هذه المراجعة ستكون قصيرة، أظن أن مدى حبي للكتاب وتأثري به ينعكس على حجم الأسطر التي سيتحول إليها عند المراجعة، وهذا الكتاب الذي حصل على نجمتين، لن يحصل على أسطر وفيرة لأنه ليس كادارياً، وكأن من كتب (الوحش) و(الحصار) رجل آخر !!!
أحداث عادية يمكن أن تجدها في الكثير من الروايات التي تهتم بتسجيل حياة الأرياف، ربما الفارق هو الصراع الذي يعصف بالقرية، حيث تتصارع على أرضها جيوش إيطاليا واليونان وألمانيا وبريطانيا، وهذا يجري بالطبع في الحرب العالمية الثانية، الرواية ربما ليست بهذا السوء، ولكن هذه ضريبة قراءتها بعد (الحصار).
Muy buena novela. Me ha emocionado la descripción del mundo a través de los ojos de un niño, en la ciudad natal del escritor durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial. El autor describe magistralmente la fascinación ante los acontecimientos que viven su familia y amigos, el descubrimiento del mundo de los mayores con reglas que no puede entender y qué él reconstruye a su manera. Hacia el final de la novela, el pulso narrativo decae un poco y esa es la razón de que no la califique con 5 *.
In this context, we can speculate on the reasons for the episodic appearance toward the end of the novel of a character described by the Italian Garrison Commander as “the dangerous Communist Enver Hoxha.” Although it is known that the dictator came from the same small town as Kadare, one wonders whether his presence is indeed historically justified or whether this was the price Kadare had to pay in order to publish his novel.
World War II is about to start but life for a young boy in a small town in Albania is still a game.
Falling in love with unattainable women, seduced by magic and literature and finally forced to flee, his existence changes from marvellous, terrifying and extraordinary into a primitive world where the severed arm of a British airman becomes a talisman and girls vanish--possibly killed by their own fathers.
I think had he been even three years older when the occupation started, the book might have had a very different tone.
City in Stone is narrated by a child living in an Albanian town, under occupation.
In an strange dreamy way we read about the he town as if it were a living being that moves and feels.This book is unlike any other I have read in how it describes the environment.
I wanted to quote from the book, but only have and electronic copy and overdrive doesn't allow copy and paste anymore.
But then I realized that with no tv or internet and no school, a child would have nothing to occupy him but his own thoughts.
CHRONICLE OF STONE was unlike the two prior books by Kadare that I had read--THE THREE ARCHED BRIDGE and THE PALACE OF DREAMS--and that was unfortunate.
Though the first couple chapters of this World War II novel hinted at an Escher-like cityscape and a talking cistern, suggesting that this too would be a story of fantastical imagination, those magical elements quickly disappear along with the boy narrator, who never develops any real identity in the book.
With no plot, no language of any real merit (at least not in the English translation), and very little conflict besides the general upheaval of war, this is a book that is largely forgettable.
An outstanding novel by an utterly brilliant writer.
In fact Kadare is probably the best writer I have discovered in the past decade.
This is the fifth book of his I have read and it concerns the remarkable city of Gjirokastër during WWII with the conflict seen through the eyes of a child.
Kadare perfectly captures the bewildering aspects of that period of history, further distorted by the perspective of the young narrator, to whom all things are mysterious and worthy of deeper investigation.
The atmosphere of this novel is thick enough to be cut with one of the Turkish daggers that the narrator's maternal grandfather keeps in his house full of books and oddments.
A really wonderful and surprising book.
I randomly happened to have gone to Albania and Gjirokaster for work and my colleague had read Broken April and was telling us about it.
It turned out that we were in the town where Ismail Kadare was from so we toured his house and saw the famous room of the cistern (all renovated and not a trace of ancient memories left).
In a gift shop I picked up this book and started reading and loved it immediately.
It is both funny and sad and hints at the terrors of wars.
I can't recommend it highly enough.
2.5 stars.
A charming though often disturbing childhood account of an Albanian town's occupation in WWII.
I couldn't wait to finish this book but for all the wrong reasons.
For all the author's accolades and the rave reviews on Goodreads, aside from the shocking events in the closing chapters and the often lyrical characterisation of buildings, I just wasn't bowled over and had to really persevere with it.
Normally I would set a book aside if I wasn't enjoying it but I did want to know the outcome which is why I stayed with it til the end.
ربّما كانت ملحميّة، أدبيّة، ربّما هي رائعة.. لكنّها عن الحرب من منظور طفل ما لم يتحفنا أحد بـ كم يبلغ من العمر.عن الحرب، أسوأ الأشياء في هذا العالم تتحدّث الرواية، عن النزوح عن البشر دون تعاطف يذكر بسرد خالٍ من أي تعبير نفسيّ ما أو أيّة إلماحة.وربّما كرهتها لأننا نعيش في داخلها الآن..
Great pleasure to discover this fantastic Albanian writer. His metaphors are supreme, fresh and original.
A friend recently convinced me to read “Chronicle in Stone” by Ismail Kadare. It is a semi-biographical novel about Kadare’s childhood in Gjirokastër, Albania during the Second World War. The book was interesting in general, but my mind keeps drifting back to one passage, about a gender non-conforming person named Argjir Argjiri. The narrator spends too pages discussing Argjiri and his upcoming marriage as one of many troubles plaguing the town:  As if all this were not enough, something else ha
Argjir Argjiri was a short, dark man with a voice so high-pitched he sounded like a woman.
and (3) Why, exactly, is his marriage seen as such an affront to the city’s honor, and as a sign of the end times?The fact that the narrator and various characters refer to Argjiri as a a “hermaphrodite” and use male pronouns suggests that they believe he is a male-assigned intersex person.
A really fascinating story of true events surrounding the occupation of this stone city in Albania before, during, and after the war.
I found myself really embracing the sorry bring told from the perspective of a young boy as it really illustrated the confusion of growing up in a place filled with so much turmoil and uncertainty.
I can't even imagine how people dealt with the changes so frequently occurring in those years, losing their home on and off.
I also enjoyed many quotes from the book, especially where the boy describes books, marveling at all the people, places and experiences that unfold before your very eyes.
