https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5575.Cradle_and_All
Sure, two of the main characters are teenagers, but the rest are adults – family members, a detective, popes and other religious people – and it’s not as if it explores teen-related themes, like first love*, first time, first kiss, first heartbreak, etc.
Not really, anyway.So I’m torn over whether it’s for adults or teenagers.
This isn’t the kind of book that will make you connect to the characters on an intense level, but you will still feel compassion for them and care for their futures.
I finished reading this a few days ago but I completely forgot to update it on here... see what prac is doing to me 😂Alright so I really did enjoy this book. It had some plot twists that I was not expecting to see. One things I didn’t like what the switching character point if views but there was no indication that told me whose point of view it was. I found that annoying and confusing.
This is the first non-Alex Cross book of Patterson's that I've read.
For example, Father Nicholas Rosetti is flying a small commuter jet out of Ireland to make a connection for a flight to New York.
The next time we see Rosetti, he is in New York, and no further mention is made of the crash.
In another scene, Kathleen is in the hospital in Rhode Island, when Father O'Carroll gives the news that Rhode Island's first polio case, presumably as a result of Kathleen's (one of the virgins) presence.
The Catholic church tries to figure out which pregnant virgin teen is the Mother of Christ and which is the Mother of Satan. Needless to say, they get it wrong, although what with all the snakes attacking Mexico and demonic priests riding motorcycles you can understand how they got baffled. Written in that typical Patterson style: as personal and efficient as an unoccupied room in a Ramada Inn.
Love, love love this book. Does anyone know if there will be a second book with the way it ended?
I remember reading this book when I was about 12-years-old.
I had spent the weekend with Nana (my mom's mother).
Nana grabbed the book she had finished, she had just gotten it.
I began reading it, and couldn't stop.
I finished the book by Sunday afternoon.
That evening I went home and I found out that one of my closest friends, a girl I had been baptized with had passed away at 9-years-old of Cancer.
And then in 2007, Nana passed away, three days shy of 67 years old.
Last year, for Christmas, my husband bought me a First Edition of this book.
I read this book years ago when it was first published, so I was intrigued to see how it was reworked to be YA.
I only had a vague memory of what happened, but I knew I liked the story.
I really enjoyed that Anne's portion of the story was the main POV.
Getting random POV of the other characters normally irritates me, but in this case, it added a layer of suspense and was an effective way to round out the entire story.Overall, it was a much quicker read than the "adult" version, but I don't feel like I missed any part of what happened.
This is the first book I read by James Patterson, but I don't think that was the right choice to beg
This book is just terrible.
A story about two virgins about to give birth, we find out one will be to the Saviour and one will be to the Beast.
Well, lets see, one of the girls is a rich, white, blonde, debutante, from America and getting loads of press.
The other a poor girl in a poor Irish town who is abused by the locals and gets maybe 15 pages in the whole book.
While there are a couple of twists, its not good.
The characters are flat, the plot weak and drawn out by repeated 'oh no!'s and chapter ends.
For a long time I wondered if the visions and voices that different characters were seeing and hearing were going to be explained by something non-supernatural—and that, I think, would have made this book more intriguing and satisfying.
Explaining the majority of the events in the book on supernatural forces came off a bit as lazy writing.
I still give the book two stars because it was fun to read for a while before I realized that Patterson wasn't going to really solve the mystery for us.
Cradle and All is the first book I’ve read by James Patterson and this may be brutal, but I wasn’t impressed.
So originally this book was published in the early 80s but I stumbled upon a new edition in the teen section the other day when I was at the bookstore.
Yeah, I really don’t know if the young adult section is really the best way to market this book unless they did some serious editing.
I’ve heard wonderful things about James Patterson and this book had so much potential.
Ok, so my opinion of this book might be totally bias because this book is honestly the first book I ever remember reading that wasn't a "school assignment" or those Goosebumps books in middle school.
I don't know if I'd be as taken with reading if I didn't like this book.
Thankfully that wasn't the case.Have I read things I've loved more since this book?
I fully intend to go back and read this agian to see if I still love it as much and really figure out what did it for me, but having said that I'll always love this book for what it signifies to me.
It wasn't just any modern take of the perennial story of the Immaculate Conception, sprinkled with twists and turns of a typical James Patterson suspense-thriller.
It wasn't the first time that I read a fantasy-themed James Patterson novel, yet I wasn't quite expecting how some of the events turned out in the story.
It still has the same trademark of James Patterson by the end of the story: those explosive, you've-never-seen-it-coming kind of revelation/s.
And the very last chapter was such a very impressive way of how to wrap things up for this kind of novel.
At the beginning the book had hooked but then it was just a rollercoaster of meh and uuuaaa.
The whole book was about figuring out who was carrying the son of god and the son of the devil.
Then I'm like "ohhh i see.
She should have said something!!" And I didn't see that ending coming at all!
Like at all.
It was like a "come on!!??" Ending.
I liked very much the detective, that was the only character I liked from the whole book, the others you just had sympathy for.
saw this ending coming from a mile away!
Anne, along with a priest named Justin she has fallen in love with, dig deeper and deeper into the mysteries surrounding the two girls in order to find out the truth and try and prove which baby is fated to be evil so it can be destroyed while the other can be protected from the forces of evil.Other than the fact that Newport no longer sports any truly wealthy families even though it is so well-known for the beautiful Guilded Age mansions that line the coast, Patterson stayed true to much of the geography and feel of the island community.
I would really have liked to read more about what happens to Anne, Justin, the two young girls and their families.
Worst James Patterson book ever!! I'm not even sure he actually wrote this. I am a fan of his work but this book was horrible and the subject matter ridiculous. Are we actually expected to believe this crap? I almost stopped reading it a bunch of times, but it was almost like a horrible accident that I couldn't look away from. I am so glad to be done with this one. Seriously, people like this??
I am glad I was able to pick up the early Patterson novel. I thought it was a real page turner. I found the characters realistic and the story almost believable.
Could not put this one down!
Loved this book! 4.5 stars. This is the James Patterson worth reading. A former nun must investigate not one, but two modern day immaculate conceptions. Of course the Catholic Church cannot imagine such a thing actually occurring. There are definitely the expected religious references, and although I was raised catholic, you don’t have to be Catholic to understand. I could actually see this turning into a series. I wanted more when the book ended and I haven’t read a Patterson book like that in a while.
A novel with a punch, that seemed more like something Dean Koontz would write. Definitely not a murder mystery but well written with a surprise ending. There was suspense and you do like the characters but the premise of two virgins having the Holy Son, seemed hard to believe. Polio is killing children and many are ill. Towards the end, much is revealed but then again, how do we really know what will actually happen when Jesus comes again and the end of the world happens?
If the rest of his books have the same problems this one has then I fear for humanity because he is SO DAMN POPULAR.I went into this with high hopes because the synopsis sounded intriguing: pretty much Biblical times all over again but with two virgin Marys and one of them may not be having a savior.
I still think that could be a good plot for a book that is more developed than a teen romance novel (no offense to teen romance fans.) The characters were so flat that it was really hard to care about what happened to them.
This was published years ago (I know I read it in high school or maybe college) but has been updated and repackaged as a YA novel.
According to prophecy, one is carrying the second coming and the other...well, you've seen Rosemary's Baby.
The problem is, no one knows which baby is which.
(Hint: it does not bode well for that baby.)Like all of James Patterson's books, this one is a pageturner.
I didn't remember which baby was the devil so that was helpful.
It would've been a great beach read but it's out in plenty of time for Halloween, and that's even better.
This is the first James Patterson book I've read, and I was a little disappointed.
I do understand that this was a reworking of one of his very early books, perhaps that's the problem.Although I enjoyed the writing, generally, I found myself wondering what the point of the book was.
I didn't find myself involved enough with the main characters, and thought they were a little two-dimensional.I do, however, look forward to reading more of his work.
His style of writing is enjoyable - I just think I need a more gripping story from him, and I think I may find that in his later books.
Intriguing mystery of two young teenagers in different parts of the world who are pregnant, but claim they did not have intercourse.
The Church is very interested in their background, and, of course, of the impending births.
Enter investigators from the Church and a private investigator who just happens to have been a nun.
Are the epidemics, wars, hunger in the world related to these births?
Read to find out how differently the two teenagers are treated: the wealthy child in the US vs the poor child in Ireland (who happens to go into labor in the barn on hay).
This is a quick and spooky read. Two teenage pregnant virgins; one in Ireland, one in America. Who and what are these girls and their babies? The world waits for the births in frenzy of religious fervor. Lots of involvement with the Catholic Church. Don't look for solid logic, but for entertainment this is a good book.
Oggi recensisco il primo libro che leggo del famoso autore James Patterson, eh già, non ho mai letto nessuno dei suoi romanzi… fino a ora, ma mi sarà piaciuto?Virgin narra una storia molto articolata e piena di suspense vista da più punti di vista, in quanto sono presenti diversi personaggi principali.Prima di tutto facciamo la conoscenza di Kathleen Beavier, una sedicenne americana di buona famiglia, che si reca in una clinica abortiva.
I'm not of faith, but Patterson has such a way with words that I was hooked - he is so suspenseful and mysterious, and he authored this incredibly eerie, creepy narrative that has so many twists and turns, and finally a chilling ending.
Always).I would not object to a second novel, and the riveting ending definitely puts the narrative in a position to potentially have a sequel.Whether or not another book is published and this becomes a series, one thing is for certain, I need to read more of James Patterson's works ASAP.
The character strength Anne shows is Authenticity. This is because at first she was sent to see Kathleen sent to decide whether or not that it was the real thing. She slowly grew more attached to Kathleen and believed her more and more. Even though she was supposed to be an objective in all of this she was real with Kathleen.
I listed to this book on audio almost completely in one go and the thriller aspect to it is what kept me intrigued. But, I had been hoping for a more supernatural thriller than what I felt like what a religious thriller. Overall, not a bad book. If you like a thriller/mystery with a religious theme than you'll like this book. For me though, not my favorite.
