https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7948230-crooked-letter-crooked-letter
this is what a lot of modern horror writers forget, that it's not just about scary things happening, it is about scary things happening to characters who have begun to matter to the reader.and this is not a horror novel, but the tremendous larry ott character does read a lot of stephen king throughout this novel, as a kid and as an adult, and the childhood scenes read a lot like stephen king, to me, before some sort of alien or clown comes to get 'em.
and larry ott and silas jones are characters to care about, despite all their mistakes and how you wanna just shake both of them sometimes.the story is a different kind of horror.
What does it say about a person when their mother feels the need for prayer they find a friend? Scary Larry Ott won't blame you if you don't like him.He knows what people say about him... But the first ladies need support and Larry may as well be the one. Another 5 star book from Tom Franklin.
M, I, crooked letter, crooked letter, I, crooked letter, crooked letter, I, humpback, humpback, I.--How southern children are taught to spell Mississippi Tom FranklinMy wife's family is from Prentiss, Mississippi not far from where the action of this book takes place. When my wife's grandmother died a few years ago we went down for the funeral. This was my first time in Mississippi and I remember a couple of things about the experience. First, this is small town USA and there were two funeral ho
They insisted to me how much Mississippi had changed, as if I were an ambassador from the North, and would go home and tell everyone that the South has become progressive.
Unfortunately for Larry the people of his small town America did not like him.
Silas likes the stories that Larry tells him from the pages of Stephen King, but refuses to even try to read a book.
His offer of friendship would have forced people to see Larry differently.
Growing up I was Silas and Larry.
I can tell from reading other reviews that this book had a profound impact on people.
Gorgeous and dripping with emotion and ache...This story OWNED ME from the opening page and LARRY OTT is among the most endearing, heart-wrenching characters I've come across in a long, long time.
Larry Ott is a 41 year old caucasian man living alone in his parents house in Chabot, MS, where he eats mostly McDonald’s and KFC (by himself), owns an auto repair shop (with no local customers) and loves, loves, loves to read, especially Horror novels, of which Stephen King is his favorite.
Poor Larry Ott. He's a beautiful soul whose wings have been clipped; he's damaged and hurting after a lifetime of being ridiculed, being thrown to the wolves, being falsely accused of a horrific crime.And yet he doesn't lose his sweetness or optimism, even after his only childhood friend, Silas, ditches him out of fear of losing his own newfound popularity.
Silas has to accept how poorly he used to treat Larry while they were growing up, and it's not easy to do.
The author did a magnificent job of facing this raw pain head-on.All Larry ever wanted is one true friend, but life kicked him where the sun doesn't shine when it comes to that wish too.
I am humbled by Larry Ott.
Larry Ott can not be ignored and in not doing so, one must also consider Silas.
Larry was white, Silas not so much.
But that was before Larry’s father intervened, before the  girl went missing, the girl that Larry had had a date with that night.
Larry of course maintains his innocence, and given the evidence was circumstantial at best, he also maintains his freedom.
And now twenty years later, another girl has disappeared.Silas had long since left town, explored other options, moved on.
And Larry had called him.
Oh, small-town, rural America, why must you scare me so? Why must this book, written about you, kill something inside me with every page? Why does it, and you by proxy, need to crush me with loneliness and sadness and desperation?  This is a profoundly sad book about sadness in life, which is sad.  And I'm not even being a brat here when I say that. There's nothing about this story that's even remotely optimistic, even the quasi-hopeful ending is very sad, if you think about it.And why wouldn't
Like Stephen King, the author oh-so-frequently referenced in this book ((view spoiler)[seriously, Tom Franklin!
(hide spoiler)]), Tom Franklin portrays small towns full of their secrets and prejudices as a perfect breeding ground for the monsters we carry within our souls.
He creates characters that we come to care about so much that when scary things happen to them it hurts like punch in the gut.
He creates tension and suspense by making us truly CARE - and does that with the remarkably non-melodramatic sadness that resonates with the reader long after the book is finished and put aside.
"The Rutherford girl had been missing for eight days when Larry Ott returned home and found a monster waiting in his house."This book grabbed me from the beginning and never let go.
Larry Ott, otherwise known as Scary Larry by an unforgiving and judgmental community, and Silas Jones, the former high school baseball star, have a history.
The two part ways, and when teenaged Larry is the main suspect in the disappearance of a local girl, Silas never looks back - until now, when another girl goes missing two decades later.
Silas is the town constable and Larry is eyed with suspicion once again.
Likely we can all catch glimpses of ourselves in either Larry or Silas.
Poor Larry Ott, the bookish kid, the weak one, a smallish white boy, the bully-target at school, takes out the girl of his dreams, returns home alone, and gets blamed for her presumed rape and murder.
The book takes us back and forth between the present day, the investigation into the latest disappearance, and the story of Silas and Larry’s ill-fated friendship.Crooked Letter, Crooked Letter is a tale of black and white told in shades of gray.
Like Larry, his father was a mechanic; he lived on the outskirts of a small southern town; he was a bookish kid in a place where that was not a good thing to be; he was a loner.
Now that a local college girl has gone missing, Larry is a prime suspect, and the events that happen will force both men to face their pasts.I can’t say enough good things about this book.
Even with the great setting and clever story telling, it’s the characters of Silas and Larry that really make this thing hum.Silas is a former local hero who has returned back to the site of his previous glory, but even though most people still call him ‘32’ after his old baseball number, he spends his days directing traffic, writing tickets and riding around in a decrepit old jeep because the town can’t afford anything better.
Larry Ott had a tough childhood growing up in rural Mississippi.
Reading books was his only escape, until he met Silas Jones.
Now 41, Larry’s days are spent repairing the cars of the few out-of-towners who visit his late father’s garage, tending his chickens, and reading his favorite Stephen King novels.
Silas returns to Mississippi as a town constable.
He and Larry’s lives intersect again when another girl disappears.
While crime plays a significant role in this story, it is the friendship between Silas and Larry and Larry’s aching loneliness that make the greatest impact.
Crooked Letter, Crooked Letter: Thoughts following a second reading"The Rutherford girl had been missing for eight days when Larry Ott returned home and found a monster waiting in his house."Read that first sentence. What? It doesn't grab you? Keep reading. It's like that long slow climb up to the peak of that first drop on the roller coaster. Hear the click of the chain pulling you to the top? After you hit the top, you're in for a ride.  First came this mean little collection of a novella and
Crooked Letter, Crooked Letter: Thoughts following a second reading"The Rutherford girl had been missing for eight days when Larry Ott returned home and found a monster waiting in his house."Read that first sentence.
First came this mean little collection of a novella and nine short stories.
Larry Ott was suspected of murdering a girl who disappeared when he was fifteen.
Now another young girl has gone missing and Ott is the usual suspect.
As a child, Silas Jones lived in a hunting cabin owned by Larry's father.
I don’t know if “reviewer burnout” is a real thing or if I’m just miserable because it’s only the second week of July and I am going to die from this heat, or if I’m rip roaring drunk (which I somewhat am), but I came home from visiting some friends this afternoon with every intention of reviewing this book because El can’t get out of bed in the morning if I don’t, but then I got home and my wife asked me to make her a Long Island iced tea, which I can make like nobody’s bi’ness, and I decided to make one for myself, but then one became two and two became three (even though the Spice Girls taught me differently) and now I can’t focus.
There's another murder and Larry's the prime suspect, how can he live with himself if he turns his back on his friend again.For me the idea of small town life both attracts and repels.
My heart went out to him, this guy who’s never experienced kindness treating a bunch of birds, chickens no less, with more compassion than he’s ever been shown.While both Silas & Larry's characters are richly defined, it’s Larry I’ll remember - the world’s loneliest mechanic.
This was an interesting read, more for its social commentary than its mystery which was actually only there because it explained what had happened to poor Larry Ott. I spent a lot of time at the beginning mentally adjusting to the fact that Larry was white and Silas black.
All my instincts from reading books about the deep south wanted them to be the other way round.There are a lot of very unpleasant people in this book and I was never quite sure whether I actually liked Silas at all.
I like to think that Larry had some good times ahead of him.
Rural Mississippi, two boys, one black, one white will become entangled in each others lives for years to come.
The amazing thing to me is I kept thinking that Silas, who is black grows up respected, very unusual in the south during this time, while Larry, who is white is treated as the towns albatross.
Due to a missing girl years back and a missing girl in the present.
Very gritty, hard scribbled people and I couldn't help, wonder why Dave stayed in this town, though his mother is ill but it was almost as a sort penance.
È il Boo Radley del paese, e in qualche modo è anche considerato il Norman Bates del posto.Silas, il ragazzo nero, per quanto di condizione economica nettamente inferiore, è più audace, sia nei confronti della vita, che della gente in genere e delle ragazze in particolare: ama lo sport, l’avventura, parte, viaggia, ritorna, si costruisce una carriera, è amato e rispettato, è quello bello.
“Psycho” di Alfred Hitchcock è l’adattamento del romanzo omonimo di Robert Bloch, che ne scrisse poi altri due con lo stesso personaggio, creando una saga.I personaggi sono più importanti della trama: chi sono, da dove vengono, e dove vanno, cosa li lega, li avvicina e li allontana, conta più dei fatti, singoli o nel complesso.
The word "friend" appears again and again in the book, and manages to overshadow the main story of two missing girls and the search to discover the truth behind their disappearances.
The boys keep their friendship a secret, playing together in the woods out of sight of others, because neither Larry's parents nor Silas's mother approve of their interacting.After an ugly incident forces them apart, Silas becomes involved with sports and Larry retreats to a lonely world with only books for companions.In high school, he is stunned to learn that a girl he's always liked will go on a date with him.
I was so sad -- so emotionally invested -- that I found the reading painful to bear at times.
I don't think this is a book meant to be read in one gulp; it is made up of so much complexity and depth that it's better to sip from its well, savor what you've tasted, and then go back for more.
Read this book.
So very sad, but beautiful.And because they are so good, and do the novel such justice, I will refer you to the reviews of Stephen and Kemper.First line fever: The Rutherford Girl had been missing for eight days when Larry Ott returned home and found a monster waiting in his house.
Larry Ott, suspected in a girl's disappearance in his teenage years but never charged, grows up lonely and ostracized in their little town.
Silas was his friend at one time, but not since he moved away and came back as the Constable.
Now Larry is friendless --and alone since his mother moved into a nursing home.Did I mention guns?
To these people, "Gun control means hitting where you aim."This was a slow starter for me; took me a while to get used to the odd words used and the slow build up, and to the awfulness of Larry's father and Cindy's step-father.
Set in rural Mississippi in the late 1970's, this is a story of a friendship between loner, Larry Ott, and former high school sports star and local constable, Silas Jones or "32".
Back in high school, Larry, on his first date, takes a hot local girl to the drive-in and she never returns home.
Then the second girl disappears and long held secrets that were buried for 20 years start to come out.This is a story of friendship and it's highs and lows, and when a friendship is tested what you will and will not do.4 out of 5 stars.
At the heart of the story are two men, one white, the other black, who for a brief period of time as boys were secretly close friends in a time and place where their friendship, if public, would have only brought them trouble.The white man is Larry Ott, the only child of a lower class family.
Then another young woman disappears and all eyes turn to Larry as the obvious suspect.Larry's black boyhood friend was Silas Jones, a gifted athlete known as "32," the number he wore on his baseball uniform.
Larry Ott had only an umbrella on the gun rack in his 1970s Ford pickup; nurtured the egg -laying First Ladies in his chicken pen; had more books stacked all over his remote home than the town library, owned a two-bay shop on Highway 11 North, and could not call anyone a friend under any circumstances.
His Ford had only 56,000 miles on its original six-cylinder, with the rest of it being immaculate factory part replacements.What they did not force upon themselves, the town did for them, through discrimination, prejudice, ruthless gossip and justified moral corruption.
Those crooked thoughts that alter trajectories, oh if only someone—a friend, a parent, a community, a town—could reach out and position a person's marred ways of thinking.
Oftentimes, it doesn't happen this way, not if one lives in a crooked town.
Imagine having a friend you could never publicly claim, a girlfriend you would always keep hidden, because of a small town's shortsightedness.
There is only so much I can say about this novel without ruining it for you, for every word seems so intricately placed, every thought deftly illuminated, every story structure profoundly rendered.
I didn't sleep well last night.It was one of the very rare occurrences where I finish a book in bed without another one to pick up right away.
In adulthood, a man who is ostracized by an entire town amid suspicions that he killed a girl 25 years ago.Now, another girl is missing, and "Scary Larry" is, of course, suspected.Did he or didn't he?The story moves along in present day, and also flashing back to the past (a formula I never tire of), and explores life in small town Mississippi, and Larry's friendship with a Silas (a dirt-poor black boy).
Something I learned about myself while reading this book: I am incapable of reading books that include a murder mystery but don't focus on the mystery aspect.Look guys, I love detective novels.
Its chapters alternate between the perspectives of two men, Larry Ott (a white man) and Silas Jones (a black man) in a small town in Mississippi.
Everyone suspects Larry, and he and Silas are forced to confront their past together.So obviously, the point of the story is not the disappearance; the point is the strained and complex relationship between these two men.
Read this book in 2012, remember it's a great, have to re-read soon!
The book sort of reminded me of some of George Pelecanos' later novels, like The Way Home (and another one that I read but apparently never rated, stupid Greg), and that is a good comparison (actually, maybe the comparison sucks and you might not think these are alike at all, but I mean it's a good comparison in my head because I thought quite highly of The Way Home).
I loved this book. I`ve never read Tom Franklin before but I will now be looking out for his other reads.
I loved this book. I`ve never read Tom Franklin before but I will now be looking out for his other reads.
Larry Ott's character in this book just broke my heart.
I mean took it out and threw it on the ground and stomped it kind of broken.
His character was a little bookworm who just didn't fit in with the other kids.
When he dared to think he had a date with a cute girl and took her out she never returned.
So his whole life has been "Scary Larry".
Silas is his one time black friend who is now constable in the town they life in.
One time friends.
