https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5598113-vision-in-white
Pure boring.
This audio book should come with a warning “Don’t listen to while operating moving vehicles, may cause severe drowsiness.” I now know WAAAAAY more about wedding planning and passive/aggressive relationships than I ever cared to know.
Mac (the heroine) had a mother who drove me up the wall.
She should have had a much lesser role as she was just pure annoying.
The romance was flat and predictable, but I did like Carter.
He was too good for Mac though.
As the book continued I found myself liking Mac less and less.
It's just a good thing that one of the other girls likes to bake wedding cakes, another is a florist, and the fourth has a mansion that they use as a venue along with her awesome planning skills.
So, let's take a look at Mac, the girl.
She's a typical Nora Roberts heroine - tall, thin, short hair, bitchy, and commitment-phobic.
I don't know, a mean girl with short orange hair that sticks out everywhere makes me think of this:Just walk away slowly.In other words, I didn't get what the nerdy man saw in her.
I am actually more interested in the next books with the other, less clown-like girls.
3 1/2 starsNobody writes friendship like NR and I really enjoyed watching the interactions between Mac and her friends.
Carter's slightly crazy friend Bob, with his "helpful" lists, was also fun to be with.
I liked this book and its characters, since it was impossible to hate such nice people, and the story was very easy to read, but I can't say I loved it.Will I be reading the rest of the series?
I'm curious about Carter and Mac's friends and I'm pretty sure their stories will be at least as nice as this one.P.S.: After rereading my review, I couldn't help noticing how many times I used the adjective "nice".
Nora Roberts latest release "Vision in White" is a light and fun read that leaves you with a big grin on your face.
This first story is about the photographer, Mackensie.Mac's home life taught her a lot about love and weddings--mainly that neither were permanent or could be counted on.
So when she meets the 'Mary Poppins' (i.e., perfect) man, one who makes her feel special and cared for and important--she freaks out...majorly.Carter had a crush on Mackensie back in school.
★★★ 3 Rom-Com stars.★★★Vision in White starts of by introducing a group of besties that run a very successful Event planning agency dedicated mostly to a bride's most defining moment,Her Wedding. How I ended up picking this book: Vision in White was basically my first Nora Roberts.So its safe to say I didn't really go in with super high expectations or such.Heard a lot about this author from my besties here on GR and thought to just give this one a go,out of pure curiosity.*shrug* My thoughts on
★★★ 3 Rom-Com stars.★★★Vision in White starts of by introducing a group of besties that run a very successful Event planning agency dedicated mostly to a bride's most defining moment,Her Wedding.
The book started predictably enough.We have the heroine,Mackensie "Mac" Elliot , who puts in her weight at the agency as the event's official wedding photographer.She makes it her mission in life is to always be on the look out for that perfect moment that defines her client's special day.
And this series, y’all; it’s definitely one of her greatest hits.*incredibly contented sigh*Four women, best friends since childhood, open an all-inclusive wedding service.
I love stories where childhood friends nurture their relationships as adults and find a way to bring their separate passions into a mutual and successful business venture.
But the main reason I love this book so much is Carter Maguire; he’s one of the absolute cutest guys I’ve ever had the pleasure of reading about.
It’s sweet and funny, not to mention hot.
Be it with a romantic suspense contribution (the recently read Night Tales series) or a straight contemporary (the book I'm reviewing at the moment).
Nope, this was a straightforward, lightweight (despite some minor issues due to the "patsy gene" the H/h exhibited), cute, sweet, sexy, sensual (I love how NR writes her sex scenes!), romantic, friendly, funny little contemporary romantic comedy.
He made me smile and giggle so many times.
And it was sexy when he got all alpha animalistic in the bedroom.The excessive wedding details were a bit boring at times, but I just skimmed those parts.
The friendship moments between Mac, Emma, Laurel, and Parker were very realistic and well done.
I hated Mac’s narcissistic mother and was so glad when Parker told her off.
It’s a feel good read that made me smile throughout.
So a surprising 5 stars, and it’s mostly because of a cute geek hero named Carter!
trilogy in 1999 and the Key trilogy in 2000, there was a big change in Nora's writing voice.
This book is no different.Mac Elliot runs a wedding planning shop with her three friends, in which she is the photographer.
Carter is the typical Beta hero that Nora has been falling back on since the Calhoun series: bumbling, soft-spoken, slow to anger teacher hero with simmering passion just below the surface for the heroine.
At times, he was almost just as frustrating as Mac, because he was just too patient.One thing I did love, and that bumped my rating up, was the friendship between the four women.
Most everything past the prologue was a disappointment.Vision in White begins with Mackensie "Mac" Elliot and her three BFFs - Emma, Laurel, and Parker - prepping for another "wedding".
Mac's character started out vapid and uninteresting to me; then slowly she became semi-likable; then she did something really stupid that made me dislike her again; and by the end of the novel I settled on annoying.
If I would've known you were this good in bed, I would've paid more attention to you in high school!Carter: *mentally recites Shakespeare*[Me: If you've read one sex scene, you've read them all.
O facto da Linda ser uma antagonista que percorre toda a série e também de aparecer em todos os outros livros, fez com que a Mac tivesse sempre um pouco de mais de destaque do que das restantes.
Em relação ao romance com o Carter, gostei da condição de eles já conhecerem-se desde os tempos de escola, pois gosto sempre de romances em que há já uma relação anterior, nem que seja apenas de vista.
O próprio Carter também me pareceu um dos homens mais interessantes e o facto de ser tão diferente da Mac, tornou o romance mais divertido.
Foi um livro que li num dia e que antecipava outras leituras maravilhosas que viriam por aí.http://algodaodoceparaocerebro.blogsp...
Awwww so sweet and romantic!
"No me quito de la cabeza a un tío que piensa en mí. Y solo de pensar que está pensando en mí, me agobio. No sé si en realidad pienso en él porque él piensa en mí o si pienso en él porque es un encanto, es divertido, dulce y sexy."  Ahora que conseguí comprarme este librillo usado, no puedo creer que me haya olvidado lo dulce que es Carter, por amor de Dios. Es la ternura hecha persona. Con una Mac más hiperactiva que nunca, con muchos miedos e inseguridades, y con un Carter que te llena los po
"No me quito de la cabeza a un tío que piensa en mí.
Ahora que conseguí comprarme este librillo usado, no puedo creer que me haya olvidado lo dulce que es Carter, por amor de Dios.
Con una Mac más hiperactiva que nunca, con muchos miedos e inseguridades, y con un Carter que te llena los poros con su ternura es imposible no caer rendida a sus pies.
Cuando era chica siempre pensé que sería muy genial vivir una mansión con mis mejores amigas.
Me acuerdo de la pareja de desvergonzados que son en los siguientes libros y me dan más ternura, estos dos son dinamita.
I loved the fact that Nora Roberts made friendship and the importance of true love a central theme in this book as I enjoyed seeing how Mac starts developing as a character as she slowly learns to start trusting people despite her tragic past with her parents and the fact that her mother Linda keeps trying to take money from her.
Nora Roberts also did a great job at developing the relationships between Mac, her friends and Carter as not only does Mac have great friends who support her through her issues, but she also has a love interest in Carter who showed her what it is like to trust and love someone again.
I don't know, I'm usually not that much into Nora Roberts or cheesy chicklit in general - although I had this phase when I was about 15 ;) - but this one just suited my mood at that moment and I enjoyed it immensely.
It's just the right book if you're looking for a comfort read to take your mind off other things (and if you're in the mood for some light romance).
I also enjoyed reading about the whole wedding planner business - although I can see it getting old after a few instalments (there are a total of four books in this series).
Poco más que añadir a lo que he comentado. Esta mujer no escribe mal pero no me llega. Sus novelas me dejan indiferente y fría. Los personajes están bien construidos y toca buenos temas, seguro que soy yoUn final muy acorde con la protagonista y un protagonista muy achuchable
Wedding photographer Mackensie "Mac" Elliot is most at home behind the camera, but her focus is shattered moments before an important wedding rehearsal when she bumps into the bride-to-be's brother...an encounter that has them both seeing stars.Not going to lie, I thought I was going to hate this book because of the theme and because of the author.
Nora Roberts is a funny writer with real a talent for storytelling.
Because of this book, I'm interested in reading more of her books and the sequels to this one.Mac was funny and sure, the book got a little unrealistic at times and became more dramatic than I like, it was still good.
I found many beautiful things in this book: friendships between friends, the warmth of family, unconditional love, and true love from the hero.Nora Roberts has always created such adorable beta heroes.
In this book, Carter Maguire was an extremely nerdy guy, but oh, he was so sweet!
Carter did the right and lovely thing by offering it to her.I loved the chemistry between Carter and Mac. It seemed so simple, natural, but beautiful.This was my feeling after finishing the book...เป็นอีกเล่มของนอร่า โรเบิร์ตที่เราชอบ บางคนบอกว่าใส่รายละเอียดเกี่ยวกับการจัดงานแต่งงานเยอะไป แต่เรามองว่าเยอะดีกว่าขาด ถ้าเราไม่สนใจสิ่งที่นักเขียนใส่มาเราก็แค่ข้ามไป แต่ถ้ามันขาดเนี่ยอ่านแล้วหงุดหงิดเพราะไม่มีคำตอบให้ตัวเองเวลาที่สงสัยในระหว่างอ่านนะ เรื่องนี้พระเอกรับความดีความชอบไปเต็มๆ เป็นพระเอกที่เนิร์ดเต็มขั้น เนิร์ดสุดๆ แล้วมั๊งตั้งแต่อ่านหนังสือของนอร่ามา แต่ว่าก็น่ารักมากๆ ด้วย พระเอกหลงรักนางเอกตั้งแต่ไฮสคูล น่ารักจัง
I like the idea of this trilogy with four friends running a wedding planning business I think it's really cool concept but didn't like this first entry, didn't like the two main characters and that the love interest he was too nerdy and a pushover to really like. I'll give that it was a realistic kind of love then most books I read. Well this type of book anyways it'scandy reading but not a great one.
Mackensie is a wedding photographer who runs into someone whos had a crush on her since High School. Well things become a bit hot between them but something that was just supposed to be a fling becomes more but also other thing get into the mix.
It’s the first book I’ve read by Nora Roberts.
I’ve read first three chapters and just didn’t feel like continuing.
So I put it aside and started another book, which was even worse, so I gave a “Vision in White” another chance.
Then she meets a man and this is what the story is about.
He is the cutest man I’ve ever read about.
Or as one heroine said about him - The Merry Poppins of men.We all have read stories about confident males courting shy women.
There is your chance to read a book about the very sweet man trying to romance a beautiful, energetic, successful woman.
I think that probably only Nora Roberts would be able to make me read a tale about wedding planners.And liking it!!
O_OAny other writer would probably make me want to hit my head against a wall....quite a number of times!!
But every time, the author is able to catch me, like a...."gullible"...fish!!But moving on, honestly what i liked more about this story, was the male character.
He's sweet, caring, responsible and..clumsy!!But on him...it looks good...except of course when he hits his head against the walls.He reminds me a little of Mac Booke in Heaven and Earth with his clumsiness.I also liked Mac as the main character.
Absolutely fell totally in love with Carter!
This book made my day, I had a grin on my face nearly the whole time I read it.
Great internal and external dialogue with both Carter and Mac. I thought Mac's character at times was brilliant.
Having faced an extremely similar problem with my own mother, I completely related to the passive-agressive stance Mac took at times.
I thoroughly cheered when she finally took her stand and I totally related to her hurt feelings.
This is a great fast read.
Not one of NR's in depth or intense books but a great read all the same.
3  starsI waited impatiently for the first installment of Nora’s latest series. I have to say I was a little disappointed. I do not know if my taste in reading has changed, or if Nora’s writing has changed. I found the heroine, Mac, to be a little grating. Everything she said seemed to be smart-assed, in order to hide her true feelings. The hero, Carter, was is a professor from the school of Extreme Beta Man. Most here know I am not a fan of the bumbling beta, but Carter did grow on me. The four
3 ½ starsI waited impatiently for the first installment of Nora’s latest series.
I have to say I was a little disappointed.
I do not know if my taste in reading has changed, or if Nora’s writing has changed.
I found the heroine, Mac, to be a little grating.
The four friends in this series own a wedding planning business.
I thought most of the details and side stories about various client weddings were boring, and wanted to skip ahead, but I couldn’t bring myself to do it.I will continue with the second book 1- because it’s Nora and I want to give it a second shot, 2 - I like the heroine, Emma for this one.
This is a pleasing story of four friends since childhood working together in a wedding management company called Vows.
Her relationships with her parents have negatively shaped her views on love and marriage.Roberts does a fine job, as usual, in providing insight into the wedding planning and management industry as a backdrop to Mac's story.
All in all, the story is interesting and the characters likable to make the time spent reading this book worth the effort.
I have found some of Roberts' other stories more interesting but I would still recommend this book.
Ok so.... I know that it's just me but I didnt care for this and honestly had to skip through some chapters. It's not the writing itself but i didn't care for this story. I feel like my dark reads has ruined me for chic lit unless it's a funny chic lit. This was just too light for me and I did t care for all the wedding stuff. I'm jaded, I know :-)
Cute.Cute dude.I had a bit of a problem with him being all clumsy (clumsy nerd are super cute!) but such a wicked lover that,you know,just pops bra clips in a sec. The heroine was a strong but neurotic modern age woman that I could and did like.But all in all,something was missing. It did not make me sight or swoon. It just was.
Happy sigh. Carter is a sweetheart. Also, this is what Lauren Layne wishes her wedding series was. Seriously: Nora Roberts is great at details.
3.5 Blue Butterfly StarsLiked but the guy is a geeky PH.D. klutz so it was hard for me to get into. If you lust after geeks you will love this =)
He was silent- yet strong like a storm when situation required.I absolutely detested Linda- the heroine's dynamics with her family is troubled and adds much to her journey.Loved the ladies- and the best thing about this book is the relationship between the four friends- and how they are each other's support system.Smokin chemistry between the lead couple- and I enjoyed how they slowly fell in love.Safe with minor exceptions (view spoiler)[ H and h have known each other in school.
