https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142292.My_Stroke_of_Insight
In the latter section of the book, she offers a list of techniques she feels anyone can use to help open up pathways to the expanded capacities of their own right brains.I learned a number of interesting things while reading this book, and there is no question that Bolte Taylor’s story is a very inspiring one.
Hers is a great story, and good editing would have made that even more obvious.My main criticism of this book, however there is a very sloppy blending of hard, scientific information about the brain with Bolte Taylor’s anecdotal experience and personal theories about what happened to her.
This is, in essence, a self help book marked by the author's inflated (with due reason, I know) sense of self and a few interesting tidbits about brain chemistry.Let's get a few things straight:1.
I love reading about the brain.2.
I was really, really wanting to love this book.3.
Or else I'll just put it out of my head forever and sell my copy online.Here's what I wrote a few days ago:I'm halfway through and the woman is driving me batty.
Batty, I say...I hope to change my mind, especially since I brought this up as a book club suggestion and now at least five other people are reading it because of me!
(8 long years of recovery!) She gives basic brain science for understanding, and speaks from the heart.
Maybe more of us need to do that.Or not.Anyway, this book gets 5 stars alone for Appendix B in the back.
The list of "forty things I needed the most" should be printed out and handed to family and friends of stroke/brain injury patients.
Protect them, but don't stand in the way of progress) My favorite on the list is #23: Trust that my brain can always continue to learn.Because they can.And do.Jill Bolte Taylor is living proof.18 min.
I read this years ago --- still own it. I thought the insights were amazing --and a fascinating story. --Emotional too....This was a woman's 'life'.Interesting how books pop into our space when we are meeting new friends on Goodreads....Brings back memories of books we read! A treasure in itself! -- make a new friend = re-visit books we have read.............nice deal!
The chance to learn about what that experience was like seemed compelling enough to me to start reading the book.
She's spent years getting her left brain back, and as a result has a unique perspective on the relationship of the two halves.I stuck with the book because I'm sympathetic to at much of what she was saying -- that if you can turn down the volume on the ego's chatter to attain a sense of calm, your life is better off.
I suspect that this book is the result of divided intentions about its goals and audience -- perhaps between the author and her editor, or between the author's two brain halves, I don't know.
but that wasn't how it worked.see, the author is a brain scientist who had a stroke.
i loved the section of the book that gave us an intro course on the science of the brain.
i felt invested after reading the first 30 or so pages of brain science and then her minute by minute description of what was happening when she suffered a stroke, which is the only somewhat logical reason that i didn't actually throw this book across the room.
This book wasn't what I was expecting.
I expected to read a memoir of sorts.
But mainly she is writing a self-help book that seeks to influence the rest of us to embrace the right side of our brains.
As a brain scientist, she has a stroke then discovers she is one with the universe.
Her brain and her cells are beautiful!
The information in this book could have been stopped at phamplet size.
Instead we have to read chapter after chapter of 4th grade happy talk.
I can imagine most people aren't as masochistic as I and will quit mid-book on this one .
Her insights into how she feels, and what functions she lost (and gained!) from her stroke are excellent.The bad:Unfortunately, intertwined with her narrative is an explanation of how the brain works that is suspect, to be sure.
Granted, she attests to not being particularly scientific anymore after her stroke, and this shines through.All in all, I'd like to hear accounts of other left-brain stroke survivors, to see if they had similar experiences to her.
I am curious whether all would have similarly nirvana-like, extrasensory perseptory, left-brain-is-evil ideas and experiences.
Doubly amazing for verbalizing what a brain is like when it goes non-verbal.One funny detail during the stroke is that, while she's rapidly losing the ability to conceptualize numbers and language, somehow part of her brain still knew she needed HMO approval prior to using emergency services -- and found the HMO card and called her HMO doctor without really knowing what a doctor or numbers really were.
Lovely message but true spirituality balances the good with real issues, rather than pleasant platitudes.Five stars for the fascinating insight into strokes and brain function minus one star for the overly cutesy writing towards the end.
Partly because of her training and knowledge and partly, I suspect, because of the way the stroke's effects developed and progressed, she was able to observe herself and analyze the process as it was happening (and somehow remembered or recovered this information later -- which seems to me the amazing part (perhaps a little too amazing?).
I particularly liked the earlier chapters and Taylor's recounting of what she experienced when the stroke occurred (she was alone in her apartment) and the immediate aftermath, the progressive loss of function.
Most notably, the right hemisphere of the brain controls the left side of the body and vice versa.
All complex cognitive function and information processing require complex interactions of various regions of the brain in both hemispheres.
Warning: This is long, contains ranting, and is rather harsh at times.From a biology perspective, this book was crazy cool, as are most things biological.
The parts that I really appreciated were her account of the actual experience of having a stroke and the initial chapters that explained some basic brain science.
I, however, have not suffered from a stroke, still experience the two hemispheres of my brain as a single consciousness, and am generally much harder-pressed to "step to the right." So back off, lady!Some other notes: When I first heard the title, I thought it was very clever.
This is what drew me to reading My Stroke of Insight, and the book does deliver on its promise before it veers off into territory that I couldn't quite appreciate.Dr. Taylor begins with some basic, fundamental brain science, to set the scene.
She contrasts her blissful experience of right-brained living with our culture's emphasis on the left hemisphere's reason, task-orientation and linear thinking.She has a point -- but I didn't really appreciate the feeling that I was reading a self-help book with no clear path to actually helping one's self!
Everyone who has ever had a stroke must have this book read to them, slowly.
Everyone who ever knew anyone who had a stroke must read this book.
She described her experience of having a stroke, the loss of her faculties, her surgery, and recovery over a period of almost a decade, to someone like the woman she was before the stroke.Her description of how to help a stroke victim on their return from a hospital are remarkable.
Unfortunately, I didn't realize that until I was over a third of the way into it, at which point I had to finish it, detesting myself the entire time.The woman who wrote this book is a neuroanatomist who had a unique and amazing opportunity to document the experience of having a hemorrhagic stroke from someone who understands how different parts of the brain function.That being said, she is not a brain surgeon.
Taylor's step-by-step recalling of her hemorrhagic left-hemisphere stroke was both enlightening and tedious.
Once discovered, completely unable to comprehend and communicate, she goes through months of recovery, including a surgery to clear the blood clot.
Since the hemorrhage, my eyes have been opened to how much choice I actually have about what goes on between my ears.
I am curious, as this stroke occurred 20 years ago now in 1996, how Taylor's life continued to change after this altering event.It was a quick read, and I found the section on caring for someone who is in this non-verbal state especially helpful.
Not only did she return to teaching, she wrote this book--an intimate account of her brain, during the stroke and during her recovery, AND the by-far best description of right and left brain activity.
I am going to recommend this book to all my friends interested in recovery issues (Taylor has a lot of good advice), all the moms in my life (Taylor lays out in detail the left brain/right brain phenomenon), and all the caregivers I know (Taylor has a lot to say about caregiving too).
She considerd herself fully recovered at eight years post-stroke.Taylor's "stroke of insight" (a phrase used over and over in the book) mainly refers to her decision not to allow any negative thoughts, ego, or stress that normally generates from the left brain (the side assaulted by the stroke) to enter her life post-stroke.
She also relates a lot of her understanding of how the right brain works to negative or positive energy that she is now able to intuit to guide her life.
First there's a page that reminds you what a stroke feels like, and tells you to get help immediately.* Then there's a list of advice on how to help someone who is in therapy to recover.*Dr. Jill did not get help immediately, and by the time she realized she needed help, she was almost incapable of calling for same, which further delayed her treatment.Ok, here's the thing.
Most of Jill's book applies to any person who has experienced brain trauma, but some specific details will vary.Jill wants us to know that doctors are *wrong* to say that "If you don't have your abilities back by six months,...
Dr. Bolte Taylor's journey back into both sides of her brain, after the left hemisphere of her brain took an unauthorized 8 year sabbatical is a story that needs to be required reading for staff at nursing homes, assisted living centers, hospitals and in homes with anyone living with a mental/cognitive impairment.
This memoir is a personal and scientific account of how our brains function, how we can help improve that function just by being aware of the neurocircuitry and physiological effects of how we think.
Did you know the left brain is the storyteller?
Jill's description of her experience of losing her left brain thinking skills due to a stroke in the left hemisphere, which meant that she could no longer read or interpret language, speak or recall words or their meanings but instead experienced the world of the senses much more vividly, often painfully while experiencing a deep sense of belonging and wonder living only in the moment, the now, is profound and rang a lot bells for me.
Jill talked about her surprise at how once her left brain started functioning again it was very quick to make up stories to explain things....
The most interesting point of the book, I guess, is the way Jill Bolte Taylor gains access to the deep peace part of her brain, through the experience of damage.
Towards the end -- and this is not at all a rational reaction to the book -- I began to wonder how much I liked the author as a person.
The point at which our sense of ourselves as individuals seeps into whatever we are as life forms.Towards the end I thought she got a bit repetitive.
I like understatement and this book doesn't do a lot of that.However, I'm extremely glad I read it.
Particularly Dr. Taylor's experience while her stroke was happening was really an intense and one of the powerful sections i have read in a long time.
The physiology and knowledge was informative and I thought I learned a lot about my own biology."I may not be in total control of what happens to my life, but I certainly am in charge of how I choose to perceive my experience." 127"What a wonderful gift this stroke has been in permitting me to pick and choose who and how I want to be in the world.
I finished this book today and I actually had to sit down and sift through my feelings trying to decide whether I like it or not.
Ha. Ha.)So here's WHAT I ENJOYED: My absolute favourite part was the author's description of the post-stroke morning.
I would have focused way more on the factual chronology of her recovery (why I started reading the book in the first place) rather than just include bits and pieces of information drowned in an emotional sermon of spiritual discovery.
how many of us are actually gonna live through a stroke and write about it with the knowledge and accuracy of a neuroscientist?
While I found the anatomical explanation of a stroke interesting and the tour of how the brain works equally engaging, the remaining chapters on the possibility of obtaining peace through the right brain fascinated me.
IMO,this is Bolte-Taylor's stroke's biggest contribution to science.
I like the author's means of sharing her insight in a practical and understandable way.What keeps this from being a 5 star book is the repition of certain phrases and thoughts especially in the first half.
The second problem I had was that the author was the narrator for my audio book and her voice grated on me.
Four stars for the accessible explanations of brain function and warning signs of stroke.
Four stars for the fascinating walk through the day of Dr. Taylor's stroke, and for her descriptions of the recovery process.
Four stars for her observations about medical care and the attitudes of doctors and nurses and visitors.
Three stars for the lengthy exercises in right brain exploration, which were fascinating but a little too fluffy for me.
I listened to the audio version on a lengthy drive, and the second half of the book functioned as a yoga nidra meditation.
Regardless of whether you’re recovering from a stroke or supporting a stroke survivor, I think Jill’s book is a must-read for everyone.
It can help us all gain a better understanding of the events & issues surrounding stroke.
Yes, VERY lucky and extremely fortunate for everything everyone—and especially her mom—did to help her over her eight-year recovery period as she continued struggling and progressing toward such amazing end-results!
It also would’ve better helped ME understand what both of my parents went through with their own strokes many years before.
Jill Bolte Taylor was a single, 37-year old neuroanatomist (brain scientist), when she, herself, suffered a stroke.
This book tells her story of the stroke and her 8 year recovery.
I was listening to the audio, which of course, makes it a bit easier for my mind to wander.
The second part of the book describes the stroke and her recovery.
This was the most interesting part of the book for me.The last section of the book described the right brain vs the left brain and talked a lot about inner peace and such.
If a woman can recover - basically completely - from the size of a stroke she had, then there's hope for everybody.
That's what makes the book so much worth reading.
Having a stroke sucks!
Imagine trying to be in the world where you suddenly can't talk and can't read!
Watching her TED talk might be as good as reading the book.Anyway, as much as Susan and I rolled our eyes at some of the passages, it still made us more hopeful (I need another word for hope - is there one?) for the future.
Instead, it was a sort of hodge-podge of things- part memoir, part brain science overview and part new-age, self help weird '4th grade happy talk' as another reviewer aptly described.
The actual story of her stroke experience was interesting; even her bio-science chapters about how the brain works were intriguing and easy to understand (at least to me), but the last third of the book was just plain weird.
.. If it were that easy to attain ultimate peace and nirvana, there would be no more wars, no need for psychotherapy, and mental illness would be a thing of the past.I am glad Taylor found equilibrium and healing after her stroke.
Amazing true life story of a neuroscientist who suffered a major stroke.
She tells how she watched her body and brain change during the stroke, what worked best for her recovery, how she learned to differentiate between the left and right hemispheres of her brain - when she was letting her brain/thoughts run the show, and when she was allowing herself to just BE in the world.
This is an incredible story from a medical standpoint, very intriguing and informative.
And it's a fabulous story of self-discovery, with tools we can all use to help stop the needless chatter in our brains and focus on being in the here and now.
