https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38049.Whoreson
Even though he is a pimp you want him to win in this story.
Karma shows up so many times in this book.
When he finally gets his life on track, and the woman he wants he loses everything because he is lied on.
knowing the story, you know its karma.
Karma can make anyone vulnerable and once again you feel sorry for this pimp, even after all the wrong he has done.
It amazes me how Donald Goines was A heroine addict in/out if prison but somehow wrote a story so great it is loved even in the 21st century.
The title character (yes that's his given name, guess what his mother does for a living) is nasty, brutish, and tall.
that's pretty much all you get as far as character development, quite an achievement given that Whoreson narrates the entire thing.
It woulda been great if Goines equipped Whoreson with a fatal flaw, or maybe a bizarre personality quirk or two (aside from beating up women).
And you get the sense that Goines is trying to redeem his own lived experience, something he never really got to do once the needle hooked him and later did him in.
I really struggled with this book.
While it was a great read, I found myself struggling with the fact that I was rooting for a pimp??
Donald really left it open for how the reader should feel, he didn't seem to want to push the reader to feel bad for or to think against the antagonist.
He simply put it all out there raw and let you come up with your own emotions.Without giving away too much of the plot I will just say this I didn't feel the main character redeemed himself until the last 3 or 4 paragraphs.
I wish Donald was still around to give us a part two.
Whoreson written by Donald Goines is a pretty fast paced book that tells the story of a ghetto pimps struggles as he goes throughout life until he finally meets a women who he can truly love and be faithful too. The main characters consist of Jesse, Whoreson’s mother whom introduces him into the way of life as a pimp; Big ma,a older women who took care of Whoreson after his moms death and who also was his second mother; and Janet, a young successful woman who whoreson has truly shown love towar
Whoreson written by Donald Goines is a pretty fast paced book that tells the story of a ghetto pimps struggles as he goes throughout life until he finally meets a women who he can truly love and be faithful too.
The main characters consist of Jesse, Whoreson’s mother whom introduces him into the way of life as a pimp; Big ma,a older women who took care of Whoreson after his moms death and who also was his second mother; and Janet, a young successful woman who whoreson has truly shown love towards.
(view spoiler)[Whoreson is the son of a black prostitute and a white trick.
Just like any young pimp he cops a few hookers and makes a few bills, but after several set backs, he recognizes pimping isn't easy - especially after he's sentenced to six years in federal prison.
Yet once his prized, bottom hooker Boots is released from prison a couple of years prior and is copped by Tony (Whoreson's once close friend) he plots the ultimate revenge.
She ends up tricking Whoreson at his own game.
Goines is one of the pioneers street literature and you can see why in Whoreson.
Like Dopefiend, his first published novel, it's a vivid, unsentimental, rough-hewn story of ghetto life.
I wanted Whoreson to move from being a gorilla pimp to being a finesse pimp, and when he didn't, I wondered how he was able to attract so many attractive, relatively together whores to his stable.Of course, just because Goines didn't take his character in the direction I wanted him to doesn't make this a bad book, but the last chapter goes in such a different direction that I felt as if Goines didn't know where to go with his irredeemably bad protagonist and just tacked on an ending.
If there had been more of a progression of his character toward that end I probably would have liked it more.
Overall, I was pretty disappointed by this book.
It tells the story of a young boy raised in the streets.
He tells us about various adventures and struggles he injurers yet most of his stories are just mediocre with nothing extraordinary.
Even when he is forced to pay for his crimes, he repeats his mistakes as soon as he is back on the street.
This story could go on and on and on but fortunately the author finally ends it before telling us about another 10 years of his life which surely continued with the same patterns.
PIMPING'S WHERE IT ISDANG!!!! Pimpin' is so hustling. I guess it was the first hustle but to have your mother name you according to conception then to teach you "The Art of Pimping!" I like how detailed this story was, and how he shows you each step he wasn't a master pimp he took steps. Donald Goines is a brilliant writer the best stories come from within.
Whew!!! Man this won't allow you to go to sleep. I promise you'll want to finish the book before going to bed. Excellent book!!!
All these years I thought, I was reading street lit was child’s play compared to Whoreson lol. Whoreson Jones was destined become a pimp because of his environment, I think Whoreson hating women because of his mother’s lifestyle. This book was a real eye-opener to how child with no parents can end up going down the wrong path when they don’t have a choice.
Good writing, interesting story, but a little too gritty for my taste.
Maybe this was a good book when the author penned it, but I cannot get past the anti-feminist aim of this novel.
Pimping ain't easy.
The ending leaves the reader hanging & this book was so hard to digest, that I wouldn't dare request a sequel.
Also the slang was damn dated in this book, that I literally had to look words up, in order to properly follow the plot.
& I am sorry, if you are searching for a novel with a happy ending, run now!
The plot just progressively worsens over the course of the book.
With the tag "America's #1 Best-Selling Black Author" stamped across the top of this book, I expected something different from Whoreson.Unlike Robert Beck aka Iceberg Slim, Goines does little to make me root for his character. Here he creates a man with all the tools to succeed at what he wants, but at the same time, nothing about the character makes me feel any sympathy towards him or his troubles, which for the most part, he seems to create with his destructive behavior.Read Pimp instead.
A masterly disturbing depiction of the pimp life in the 60's. It's fast-paced and even if you're not a fan of Urban Fiction you'll still be engaged enough to keep reading. There's not a lot of character building in this story but honestly there isn't any one character in this entire novel you really want or need to get to know. Donald Goines is at his best with this one but you have been warned
Goines' work is pretty brutal stuff, verging on exploitation. Often cited as an influence by hip hop stars, he writes gritty stories about crime and addiction. Think "The Wire" but way pulpier. Must reading for anyone interested in Detroit writers and ways the city gets represented in fiction.
Read it because a friend recommended. Pretty trashy, moderately entertaining. Not bad, but not exactly my kind of book. Apparently the author actually lived in the ghetto, so it was kind of interesting to peek in and see what really happens. Not sure exactly how much, if any, he exaggerated.
I would give this book a triple five star rating. The conversations and the characters are so realistic, that you would swear this story really took place. Donald Goines stands alone as a legend in this genre. Buy this book, and buy more for your friends.
I used to own this book, it was one of the best books I have ever read, it didn't help any that the book was stolen from me. The character in this book made me smh, goes to show you how anyone can turn bad in certain circumstances.
This book is one of my all time favorites, because of its raw content and the author's extreme visual usage of words the book read like a movie, i could not put it down and found myself still visualizing the scenes in my head days after finishing it.
This book gave insight about prostitution...and it blew me away of all the other elemnts that was going on.
One of the few urban fictions I ever read. Donald Goines is able to bring reader into the real ghetto, not the one you will only see in rap videos.
But Goines brings it back to earth because the protagonist/narrator is always reflecting on his experiences.
And yeah, if the choice is to be a successful pimp and a hustler, or work some menial job for really racist white people, then risking jail time or even getting killed might seem worth it.
Any human experience is worth writing about and we should all be trying to read as many different voices as we can.
Just before I finished reading this book, I watched a short documentary about Donald Goines on YouTube.
I think it would be good if more white people read books by Goines or Iceberg Slim or some such.
The storyline was good and moved along fairly quickly but the ending, even though it wasn't the happiest was a part 'fairy-tale' ending that kind of annoyed me.Whoreson, who was named for his mothers type of employment grew up in poverty learning how to survive on his wits in the lifestyle he was born into.
Through many ups and downs he learned about himself but nothing seemed to evolve beyond lying, cheating and stealing until the ending which seemed to tidy for me when I read a book about this subject matter.
I found it to be a let down and it took some of the satisfaction of reading this book away.
Ghetto pulp-fiction in the cold style of Iceberg Slim.
Writing like this is a trick, like the narrator of "The Collector," you sympathize with evil because it's charming and because the narrator makes you believe there was never any other choice.
If you like '70s-era blaxploitation films, you'll like this.
Goines lived the life according to articles about him and could pump out a completed book in the span of a single month to support his heroin addiction and keep from resorting to crime.
This was the first book of his I've read, but will definitely read more.
Loving Donald Goines books
It has its moments but is quite repetitive, especially when the narrator constantly espouses of his "Oscar-worthy performances" in from of his whores and other people.
A extremely good and funny read.
Very urban. Hood read if you're into it.
The Jungle Creed says the Strong must feed on any Prey at hand, I was branded a Beast and sat at a feast before I was a man. This read is harsh, but most know Goines is not for the fainthearted.
What a name!! Good book.
