https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70239.The_Best_Short_Stories
The other stories from that period didn’t really leave much of an impression on me.“Chronopolis” (1960), “The Voices of Time” (1960), “The Garden of Time” (1961), and “The Cage of Sand” (1962) were the standout stories that do not overlap with his collection The Terminal Beach and contain the most classic Ballardian themes of entropy, melancholy, time coming to a halt as the past merges with the present and future, lonely couples, obsessed eccentrics, deserted hotels, abandoned launch sites, empty swimming pools, strange and pointless scientific experiments, dead astronauts orbiting space forever, and the moribund US space program.Finally, The Best Short Stories of J.G. Ballard includes four bizarre ‘condensed novels’ from Ballard’s controversial collection The Atrocity Exhibition (1970): “The Assassination of JFK Considered as a Downhill Motor Race” (1965), “The Atrocity Exhibition” (1966), “Plan for the Assassination of Jacqueline Kennedy” (1967), and “Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan” (1968).
"The best short stories of j.g. ballard" is arranged chronologically, and by the end one feels as if one has read a book written by two writers, one juvenile but sincerely dedicated to his imagined dystopias, the other a mature craftsman but disengaged and sneering.
This is a place where Dick has it over Ballard, and is the reason why Dick may in the end have been the better writer; his ideas were just as extreme, but he had a way of making them seem completely consistent, mostly through the calm, lucid, hardboiled surreality of his narrative voice.
Sometimes from the inside-out: in these short stories, civilizations let their rules slip away from them, eliminating temporal measurement or living space or the Earth's oceans in pursuit of forgotten goals.
Sometimes from the outside-in: Ballard, a World War II internment camp survivor, was the self-appointed poet laureate of the atom bomb.High highs and low lows here average out to a three.
It alone is not to be missed.That being said, the cumulative effect of the stories started changing my perception of the world midway through.
I got it in my head to compare Didion's "John Wayne, a Love Song," with Ballard's "Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan." The former is a riveting, almost ballad-like chronicle of D's infatuation with the myth and larger-than-life heroism of the former Marion Morrison, and some speculation on the application of this tragic flaw (hers) to larger California scenes.
It consists of the behavioral reactions of a group of people, in psych experiment terms, to scenarios in which Ronald Reagan is killed.
Needless to say, the "notes" to the experiment are all about documenting the various states and varieties of arousal this scenario can generate, including "Reagan's hairstyle.
Ballard never falls into the generic faults of the genre the way most of the other great sci-fi authors have.
Like all great writers in the genre, though, he is concerned less with the technology and more with its impact on humanity, less with the details of the future, and more with the mood, the experience of the person living in that future.
The densest, coldest science fiction stories you'll ever read. The most claustrophobic piece of fiction ever written is "Billenium", a nightmare world of overpopulation. People are clustered in corners like cockroaches. Some of this shit will give you nightmares - guaranteed.
So many of these stories rocked my world and will stay with me for a very long time.
DISCLOSURE: I have given a short description/teaser of what each story is about, so if you consider pretty much anything a spoiler, don’t read them.
5 star story.3/5 - The Voices of Time – This one was somewhat interesting but way too long winded.
Until, of course, the main character finds one last solitary patch… Great commentary on complete human disregard for the impact we have on the natural world.
SUCH a great concept for a short story with a perfect Orwellian ending.
With this collection, start your Ballard experience by reading the haunting "The Drowned Giant." How does a community respond to the sudden appearance of an enormous drowned human being in the surf?
The community's varied response reveals some features of human nature.
Leonora Chanel, a beautiful, mad,dangerous heiress commands the sculptors to carve her portrait in a deadly storm--can they meet her challenge?"Cloud-Sculptors" is part of a series of "Vermilion Sands" stories.
Vermilion Sands is a curious place, combining the features of both the ocean and the desert--a tremendous feat of imagination.
These stories are collected in a book entitled, what else, VERMILION SANDS.
————————————————————The Concentration City ***One of the reasons I like reading old scifi is that because it ages so rapidly, you can get a better feel for the obsessions of the past.
The huge numbers probably worked to inspire the right feeling in Ballard’s readers, so I suppose I can’t fault him for that stylistic sense, I just like it when an author tries hard to get the little things right even when most people won’t notice.
A truly superb collection of short stories from a great author.
Many of the stories deal with time in various ways, which I really enjoyed, and/or with humanity's idiotic tendency to let its technology outpace its morality (or its intelligence).
"End Game" and "The Overloaded Man" are small masterpieces of psychological suspense, and "The Voices of Time" had me researching genetics and 'the silent pair'.Taken as a whole the book's Cold War-era origins are evident (stories written between 1957 and 1978), but given what's happening in the world recently, it feels rather timely.

J.G. Ballard took the reigns from George Orwell as the most important author of late-20th century England and this collection of his short stories is a must-read for any Ballard admirer (like me). The stories track his progression from pure science fiction author all the way to his most surrealist flights of literary fancy. "The Drowned Giant" resonated the most with me. READ THIS BOOK!
Ballard is a talented writer but the short stories in this collection didn't do anything for me. Many had a similar tone. Some were just to strange and experimental for me. My favorite was THE OVERLOADED MAN.
Ballard is an interesting author.
He writes about experiences and events more than building toward climactic endings.
Some of the stories in this anthology barely even have an ending; instead you turn the page and see that he stopped describing what happened next.The Drowned Giant, included, is probably his most famous piece unless something else is.
Edit: Here it is, all seven pages, if you're curious: http://tinyurl.com/yfradelThen there are the stories grouped at the end of the book, such as Why I Want To Fuck Ronald Reagan.
That one isn't quite what it sounds like but nonetheless communicates unambiguously that Ballard is without question clinically insane.
This collection of short stories is a wonderful example of dystopian literature.
Although some of the technology used in his books is laughable (tape cassettes as a medium of data storage for example or the detrimental effects of subliminal advertising as another) the themes of the stories are still pertinent to today and include empty consumerism, blind reliance on technology and the fragility (or adaptability depending on your viewpoint) of the human mind.
My favorite stories were:Top 3:ChronopolisDeep EndThe Subliminal ManOther Favorites:The Concentration CityThirteen for CentaurusBillenniumManhole 69They really all are worth reading, which is why I have so many favorites.
The stories emphasizing time... I don't know. I don't think they're relevant. I also don't think the overpopulation stories were very relevant. I can see how they might resonate with overly insular science fiction reading shut-ins. The Subliminal story was spot on- and a much better treatment of advertising, consumption, and humanity than Dick's story... I can't remember the name of Dick's story right now, but I remember the guy gets a robot and blasts into space and ends up committing suicide. Elements of Foursquare, Groupon, and GoogleMaps are all there in Ballard's story. Yeah.
I haven't read all these yet, preferring to take them slow. Let's not binge.But, c'mon."Drowned Giant" is as key to my reading experience as anything. Says as much about our capacity to get used to and blow off any of the astonishing things about the world as anything else I've read.
Fantastic collection of Ballard stories. Surreal,bizarro, Science fiction, horror, thought provoking and all around genius writing.
I was familiar with J.G. Ballard as the author who wrote Crash; whose live inspired the movie Empire of the Sun and a major influence on Joy Division. Turns out he's a pretty fascinating, albeit not very accessible, writer. This collection of stories would best be described as "dystopian fiction" and covers themes of alienation, idolizing cultural figures and urban sprawl. Heavy stuff but eerily prescient given current events. Highly recommend.
I read 3 stories from this collection and returned it to the library. If these are J.G. Ballard's best then I'm confused. Definitely contained some interesting concepts but the recurrence of an exposition-dump in the final moments of each story was really disappointing. Destroys anything interesting about the mood/characters that was established in the preceding pages.
The Assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy Considered as a Downhill Motor Race read only
The early stories here, mostly dealing with overpopulation and entropy of the human condition were generally unconvincing and not too exciting. Fortunately, the later stories, a bit more unshackled as to themes and structure, were much better. I'll average it out to 3 stars.
favorite stories:voices of timedeep endthirteen for centaurusthe cage of sandend game
Brilliant.
i abandoned this read.
A book of science fiction short stories, for want of a better description re: genre.
As Burgess states in the introduction, Ballard's is the science fiction of creative liberation.
He doesn't merely write stories about people's lives in contemporary America - he explores human interaction in an alternate reality.
Despite being set in an alternate reality, they are eeriely timeless in theme and present an alternative, often more of a nightmare or distopia than a utopia, to common human problems like overpopulation, over-consumerism, environmental decay, etc.
Just as with Phil Dick's shorter fiction, one ends up pleasantly surprised to find a genuine storyteller as well as a writer grappling with troubling questions and speculations.The one downside for some of these stories is their dependence on certain ideas or approaches that were common in science fiction of the time but which haven't aged well.
Or the assumption that wrecking the planet will make a mass migration to Mars an option ("Deep End").
SF has moved on from these ideas (or, at least, now approaches them differently), particularly in the past twenty years, and that does make a couple of the stories here feel slightly dated.
The Drowned Giant: (from book of short stories)Is a story of a dead giant washed ashore.
The event is traced by the eyewitness of a researcher who is skeptical at first, but later comes to keenly observe the unmoving mammoth body, along with the reactions to thousands of curious visitors who employ it under their own personal recreation, like some grand carnival ride.
Like most of Ballard's stories, The Drown Giant is a narrative that stretches beyond the confines of character, and expands into the vast breath of cultural complexity, where the will of everyone is dwarfed by the immense behavior of the earth and the evolution of it's people.
I'd read Crash and was fascinated with it, then I found this collection of Ballard's short stories in a used book sale.
Yes, it had some stories from his later period when he was pioneering transgressive fiction, his eroticized treatment of technology, like in Crash.
The humor proceeded to truly belly laugh in shocked complicity with "Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan."However, I was not aware of his earlier history as the master of dystopic fiction approached with a literary style.
A truly excellent writer; I will read more of his novels in the future.
What if these gruesome lifeforms drove scientists to suicide?What if a man was made so insane by the inanity of everyday living that he kills his wife?What if the aristocracy was poised on the edge of being overthrown by that damned dirty rabble of the earth (heretofore known as the rest of the population) but there was a magical rose garden that would help them forestall the dreaded democratic leveling of society?
WHAT THEN??Not sure where the plaudits are rolling in from but the prose has a definite overstrained feel to it.
Reading Ballard and Valente (both scifi/fantasy practitioners) as bookends around John McPhee, I found myself thinking, again and again, that less is definitely more.
