https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/695605.The_World_is_Round
As his haiku was read, I realized it was yet another poem about how difficult it was to understand Stein.
In one haiku, he had defined exactly what an English major does when approaching a creative work.My initial reaction with Stein has always been to laugh.
The World is Round is, if you can believe it, a children's novel by Gertrude Stein with illustrations by Clement Hurd, who also illustrated Goodnight, Moon.
Rose is having an identity crisis upon realizing that the world is round while her cousin, Willie, is sure of his self.
Λοιπόν έκανα ένα πείραμα. Διάβασα τα τρία πρώτα κεφάλαια στο Α2, πρωτάκια δλδ κανονικά. Από τα 15 παιδιά τα 13 παιδιά δήλωσαν πως τους άρεσε. Από τα 13 παιδιά τα 10 παιδιά έλεγαν αλήθεια. Από τα 10 παιδιά τα 2 παιδιά έπαθαν νευρικό γέλιο ενώ διάβαζα. Από τα 8 παιδιά στην ερώτηση "γιατί σας άρεσε" απάντησαν μεταξύ άλλων "γιατί τη λένε Ρόουζ" και "γιατί όλα είναι στρογγυλά". Συμπέρασμα: έτσι κι αλλιώς δεν τα ξέρουν όλα. Ξέρουν όμως να αντιλαμβάνονται κώδικες που τους απευθύνονται με έναν τρόπο ακατάληπτο σε πρώτη ανάγνωση.
Well, Gertrude Stein wrote a children's book. “Don’t bother about the commas which aren’t there, read the words. Don’t worry about the sense that is there, read the words. If you have any trouble, read faster and faster until you don’t.”
And all in a very simple story about a girl and a chair that you can read in about an hour.A brief synopsis: Rose, roughly six years old, lives with her parents and her dog.
The first third of the book tells of her relationship with her dog and the neighbors' dog, and, also, her relationship with her cousin Willie (also about six years old).
It doesn't feel like it's written by an adult trying to see the world again through the eyes of a child.
Instead, a six year old child is telling you this story, and she's trying to figure out what it means to be alive.
I was delighted by this little book, and that is even without the illustrations.
I am glad that I didn't read this book as a child, because I'm not sure if I would have enjoyed it as much. The writing is incredibly beautiful. I think we all have a Rose in us, who is trying to go somewhere, but when we reach there, we realize that there is not there.
Веднъж се срещнах аз и аз побягнах.Да бягам никой там не ме видя.Веднъж щом може може пакИ никой нищо да не види фактНо каквото искам аз ще правяЩе бягам тичам и летяАз Уили аз.Дай ми хлябДай маслоДай ми сиренеИ сладкоДай ми млякоИ кокошкаДай ми повече яйцаСъщо мъничко салам който бързо да изям.
Not sure if I liked or disliked this book. It was kind of a thing that happened.
Nicht nur die endlosen Wiederholungen, Reime, ja der Sprechgesang macht die Leser nervös, sondern auch das Weglassen von Satzzeichen.“Satzzeichen sind nur für schwachsinnige Personen” so wird sie zitiert, würde man diese Hilfestellung weglassen, “fördere man die Selbständigkeit des Lesers beim Verarbeiten der Wortfolgen” - oder man fördert das Desinteresse am Buch – viele Verlage lehnten Steins Werke mit der Begründung ab, dass sich dafür keine Leser fänden.
Ich gestehe, dass mir die Beschäftigung mit der Person Gertrude Steins, ihrem Leben, ihren Ideen und Gedanken mehr Spaß gemacht hat als das Lesen dieses Buches, trotzdem möchte ich jetzt nicht mehr missen.
A child’s questions, songs, and explorations of world and self. Stein’s style suits children, and writing for children curbs her pretentiousness.
NO - you cannot put this book down and just walk away.
Ever wonder who you are?
"Who am I?" This book should open your eyes.
Not a hard read but a fun, easy read to make you think a bit.
So, now you know it is not a NEW book but a 'refreshed' book that is, I think made for children AND adults.
This book is just over 100 pages, kinda like a fill-in between the serious books that you read.
You will get to know Rose, Willie and Billie.
AND yes, got this book free from Goodreads.com and the Author.
Ugh. Painful.
I have a lot of trouble figuring out how to classify this one.
But it is long for a kids' book...I wish I had gotten through it in one setting and I'm not sure I'd totally classify it as a kids' book.
In some ways, Stein is a fabulous author for kids because once you get past the pretense the playing with language is pleasing to the ear and fun to read out loud.Overall, super glad I read it, super glad it exists, but I can see how this is not going to be for everyone.
Books in Search of Children: reports from children:12 yo boy 'relaxing' another 'the use of words has you laughing till your sides ache.'another 'much more *human* than most books.'13 yo girl 'I think Rose and Willie are wonderful.
I like people who really feel things inside, and adore the way they express themselves in their wonderful songs.'another 13 yo girl 'the story is simple and dreamy.
You can forget yourself and live in a separate world while you are reading it.'younger child 'I love the new style writing because it is the way I, or any other child, would think and write.'"Of course there were also children who thought 'dumb.'"Ok, so now I've read it.
„Земното кълбо се върти”, и то понякога с такава скорост, че всичките точки, тирета и запетайки да се разхвърчат из дълбините на космоса! Новото предложение на издателство „Лист” от серията „Детски шедьоври от велики писатели” ще хвърли в ужас и потрес всеки педант на пунктуацията, но тук (д)ефектът е напълно целенасочен. Грабвайте книжката на Гертруд и гарантирано ще си глътнете граматиката! Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
an amazing book that is part children's story, part existential journey---Rose is on a quest to discover if she would still be Rose if she had a different name.
Wonderful illustrations and a great sing-song writing style by Gertrude Stein...."Rose was her name and would she have been Rose if her name had not been Rose.
She used to think and then she used to think again.Would she have been Rose if her name had not been Rose and would she have been Rose if she had been a twin.Rose was her name all the same and her father's name was Bob and her mother's name was Kate and her uncle's name was William and her aunt's name was Gloria and her grandmother's name was Lucy.
This fascinating little book written by Gertrude Stein and illustrated by Clement Hurd is a beautiful looking book, printed in rose colored pages and blue lettering.
Meant as a children book, I found the book is better as a collectors item.
I almost want to rip its pages out and frame them.The actual story has various levels and is a good exercise for reading out loud.
I don't have small children anymore, but I think my kids would have appreciate a couple of evenings of this book read out loud.
I may review this entry after I read it to a child.
"A Rose is a Rose is a Rose is a Rose" is a popular Stein-ism that finds itself encircling a trunk when Rose, the main character, becomes slightly overwhelmed by her journey up a mountain.
Not to be cryptic, but I certainly found this trek up a mountain to also be death.
Once she gets up to the mountain to sit in her blue chair, she tries very hard to stay in that chair.
I'll admit, the ending was abrupt and convenient, but I enjoyed the read.
Also, if you plan on reading this book, don't forget Stein's modernist writing full of puns, rhymes, endless repetition, and lack of proper punctuation.
A compilation of poetry layered with angular minimalist pink and blue world makes this book a visually appealing abstract exploration.
Gertrude Stein has a mind of note as well, and I was surprised to find that she had written a children's book.
I think the elements of this book expose kids to the specificity and meticulousness poetry and prose can embody, and I would use this book to explore the world she created.
It resembles a folk-tale in it's general characters, plot line, so we would read through the book and determine elements that fall into their respective genres.
I love Gertrude Stein.
I learned to write from reading Virginia Woolf and Gertrude Stein, so there is a sense of gratitude and wonderment and pleasure here that I won't ever outgrow.
That said, there is much Stein I have not read and I haven't read any Stein in a while.This one is a children's book, and I really want to use it literally as that: when I finish it, I want to send it to my mother-in-law and ask, beg, plead, with her to read it aloud to her grandchildren.
A very cute book intended to be for children but An adult can love it just as much, I did!
The book is about a little girl named Rose who questions who she is & tries to find out who she is.
At first the language can be a little annoying and repetitive but you get used to it once you keep reading the book and once you notice its intended to be read as if Rose the little girl was telling the story.
Loved it & the hot pink pages with blue ink and beautiful illustrations are just the cherry on top!
A library book I thought needed to be added to our home collection. My daughter loved having this read to her. Rose is a rose is a rose lovingly on her lips. This was an absolute pleasure to read aloud and Clement Hurd's illustrations along with the bright pink pages and blue typeface made this book even more special. We'll be reading this one again and again.
An odd little book that doesn't really do justice to Stein's greatness but also (in my adult opinion) doesn't really appeal to children. In addition, I find the illustrations dated and vaguely creepy and the navy print on pink paper is extremely hard on the eyes.
A children's book by Gertrude Stein, yes. Sounds unlikely? It's actually surprisingly lovely. "The world is round and you can go on it around and around." It isn't all just wordplay, either; the children in it are real and alive.
gertrude stein wrote a children's book and as it happens it is one of the better books of any kind that you might ever want to read. i read it aloud on my birthday and i'm ever so glad i did.
I don't think Gertrude Stein is for me.The packaging of the book was beautiful! The art was fantastic. However, the blue type on pink paper really strained my eyes.
this tiny perfect book maybe changed my life forever.
Thinking about getting a tattoo around my arm in dark blue ink reading "一朵玫瑰是一朵玫瑰是一朵玫瑰是一朵玫瑰"
Very famous book. Offbeat. Frankly, not my cup of tea.
This is such a treat - the text is classic Stein but add to that the lovely illustrations by Clement Hurd, the pink pages and the stunning blue typeface and you have something magical!
