https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1016875.Hitler
I bought the book because I study human behavior in political systems and the rise of Nazi Germany is a classic example.
Its easy to criticize the German people for their decision to elect Nazis to power but the real story is much more complex.
The winds of the time (aftermath of World War I, economic depression) along with the state of politics and mass psychology are the real factors that allowed a person like Hitler to rise to power.
His enigmatic personality, harboring a will to power was hidden from the German people until it was too late.
Wiederlesen heißt wieder erkennenFaktisch in zahlreichen Details überholte Darstellung, die aber immer noch ihre sprachlichen Meriten hat und deshalb ein gewisses Lesevergnügen bietet.Keine Frage, Bullock hat die erste Biographie Hitlers nach dem Ableben des Führers geschrieben und 1952 veröffentlicht, bzw.
Auch wenn sein Fazit, dass Hitler den Krieg verlieren musste, weil er ein Nazi war, auch in neueren Darstellung wie Andrew Roberts Storm of War seine Bestätigung bekommt.In Sachen Lesevergnügen verdient diese Darstellung immer noch fünf Sterne, auch in den Charakterisierung der Nazis als eine gewissenlose Verbrecherbande, für deren Handeln es keine Entschuldigungen gibt und geben kann, hat sich nicht so schrecklich viel geändert.
Today there are still many who believe that the Nazis burnt the Reichstag, or that Hitler ordered the killing of Geli Raubal (both of which are at least plausible), but Bullock is the only author I have seen who claimed that the SS was behind the attempt on Hitler’s life in November, 1939.
Apparently August Kubizek’s book came out between editions, so some of his information about Hitler’s early life appears here, but Bullock seems to have had no interest in Ernst Hanfstaengl’s 1957 account.
Then i happened to watch ‘der untergang’ the German movie on the last days of Hitler.
Then i saw many of the other movies on world war 2 Schindler's list, the boy in the striped pajamas, the pianist et al.
Here the rise of Hitler from a prickly, crazy, loud, good for nothing agitator who spoke like he argued and argued like he had a fit, to a serious player in the German politics, to a master strategist and politician to becoming the Reich Chancellor through intrigue, bribes, threats and lies to finally becoming the Fuhrer, the dictator, the sole point of power across all Germany is mapped out in considerable depth.
Commonly the following European regimes are described as fascist:Falange in Spain under Francisco Franco (1937–1975)Fatherland Front in Austria under Engelbert Dollfuss and Kurt Schuschnigg (1934–1938)4th of August Regime in Greece under Ioannis Metaxas (1936–1941)Iron Guard in conjunction with the Romanian military dictatorship in Romania under Ion Antonescu (1940–1941)Ustaše in Croatia under Ante Pavelić (1941–1945)National Union in Portugal under António de Oliveira Salazar (1933–1974)Nazi Party of Germany under Adolf Hitler (1933–1945)Hlinka Guard in Slovakia under Jozef Tiso (1939–1945)Arrow Cross Party in Hungary under Ferenc Szálasi (1944–1945)And, it’s back!
From page 139; July 1926, at a mass rally in Weimar, Thuringia, five-thousand party faithfuls marched past Hitler’s big Mercedes while the man himself, for the first time, used the outstretched arm as the Nazi salute.
Hitler is definitely a fascinating historic figure and the events surrounding the Nazi time in Germany are very interesting.
At the same I don't like books that just portray Hitler as a monster, no matter how disgusting his actions were.
I admit sometimes when it was discussing political meetings I was getting slightly bored, but it would not happen to someone who is very intersted in the political aspect of the topic.All in all it is definitely a great book which has about 500 pages of facts on WW2 and Hitler.
Of course, by the time the assassination attempts began, it had already been too late for too long.Bullock, who lived through WWII, avoids moralizing and sensationalism; instead he writes in a balanced, rational style, presenting only the facts, which are the more chilling for their lack of sentimentality.
From the epilogue:"The fact that his career ended in failure, and that his defeat was pre-eminently due to his own mistakes, does not by itself detract from Hitler's claim to greatness.
For these remarkable powers were combined with an ugly and strident egotism, a moral and intellectual cretinism.
Magnificent, essential book. Do not opt for the abridgement; do the deep dive.
Inevitably, the fact that it was written nearly fifty years ago shows--more scholarship has been done and some of Bullock's ancillary facts are wrong (e.g., in 1941, the Russians were not better equipped and better fed than the Germans (Ivan's War); Albert Speer's "economic miracle" was almost entirely the work of the man he replaced (The Wages of Destruction); and so on)--but does not detract from Bullock's accomplishment in describing and analyzing Hitler's career.
His career did not exalt but debased the human condition, and his twelve years' dictatorship was barren of all ideas save one--the further extension of his own power and that of the nation with which he had identified himself.
I of course take no credit for the speed of reading, rather I can only commend Alan Bullock for writing an account of a truly terrible time in such a readable way.I was disappointed for a while about the lack of any real mention of Hitler's domestic policies and was tempted to mark the book down until I thought a little more.
The book was published just seven years after the Third Reich fell and yet the level of detail is stunning.
One of Bullock's greatest achievements in my view is to highlight Hitler's qualities and victories whilst still presenting him as the monster he truly was.
While watching and listening to The Great Courses "A History of Hitler's Empire, 2nd Edition" by Professor Thomas Childers, I decided to read some of the books listed in his Bibliography.
Here's what he wrote about "Hitler: A Study in Tyranny": "Although dated in some ways, Bullock's well-written and pioneering biography of Hitler remains one of the best one-volume attempts to capture Hitler and his times." The cover of the book shows a squib by W.
The bulk of the book deals with how Hitler rose to power, which, of course, is a vital question for any democracy.
Bullock's biography isn't a dry recitation of facts, but it does tend to hit the main notes in the life of Hitler.
The highlight of the read comes in "The Dictator," the chapter that basically fills in the details of Hitler's personal life, his outlook, his interaction with his inner circle, and how he was able to hold such a hypnotic effect on both his followers and those who might not have been predisposed to follow him blindly.
Hitler is a hard subject to write biographically - there isn't the normal development of a worldview, or a line between official statements and private thoughts.
Written in the 1960's, A Study in Tyranny has long been considered the definitive English-language biography of Adolf Hitler. Reading it today, it's easy to see why. Bullock approaches subject as a strict historian, without any axe to grind. The result is an exhaustive and sober study of the life and character of Adolf Hitler, which corrects many mistakes, myths and falsehoods about the man which persist even today. Some of the conclusions and sources may be outdated, but this remains an excellent work, well written and authoritative.
A classic based on the information available at the time. Compare with Hitler by Kershaw who has written the current critically acclaimed version of Hitler's life and times. My recommendation, read both and decide for yourself.
Slightly dated but virtually the best all round portrait of how one man's sad character can mirror a time and a place, playing out his emotional poverty on the world.
Authoritative and definitive. The First complete biography of the corporal from Vienna. All other scholarship is indebted to Bullock for his comprehensive study.
Good history book. I had to read this Junior year of high school. It was enlightening and taught me to consider the POV of the author as well as the information contained within a history book.
An attempt to explain how a man could rise to power in Germany who was not German but Austrian, never finished high school, never had a real job outside his stint in the army, never visited any country except Germany and Austria (and France in WWI) and could not speak any foreign language, in 4 years in the army during WWI never rose above the rank of Lance Corporal, and who was only famous as the leader of a radical hate group that tried to overthrow the government and for writing a book that explicitly detailed his intentions to seize power, turn Germany into a police state with him as dictator, invade Russia and kill all the Jews.In defense of the German people the Nazis were not alone, or even rare, as violent anti-government groups went in Germany.
In the introduction of Volker Ullrich's Hitler: Ascent 1889–1939, the author describes the only four seminal biographies of Adolf Hitler.In part he writes: Alan Bullock's thrilling 1952 debut, Hitler: A Study in Tyranny, has been the starting point for all subsequent academic study of the "Hitler phenomenon." The British historian had advance access to confiscated German documents which had been used as evidence at the Nuremberg Trials and which were about to be made public.
Bullock depicted the German dictator as a completely unprincipled opportunist driven solely by lust for power at its most raw and pure.
The first, suggested by much that was said at the Nuremberg Trials, was to discover how great a part Hitler played in the history of the Third Reich and whether Göring and the other defendants were exaggerating when they claimed that under the Nazi régime the will of one man, and of one man alone, was decisive.
I have not attempted to write a history of Germany, nor a study of government and society under the Nazi régime.
My theme is not dictatorship, but the dictator, the personal power of one man, although it may be added that for most of the years between 1933 and 1945 this is identical with the most important part of the history of the Third Reich.
It's not very readable, given the time in which it was originally written (during the 60's). Besides being written during the last century, it is verbose and technical as well. So, I would not start reading about Hitler here, but if you're a History buff and are deeply interested in WWII issues, this is a valuable classic.
Excellent overview on the tyrant, that stays focused on the main subject and is not lost in the war or the politics.
Bleak but compelling biography of a nasty individual. Terrifying in its parallels with modern politics and the earliest complete biography of Hitler in English. Would recommend to the interested.
My dad bought this book back in the seventies and I've still got it.Very thorough book.
Bardzo dobrze napisana, smutne jak zaczął przegrywać...
If you ever want to understand how Hitler came to power, and thus by proxy how other brutal tyrants can come to power, then this is the book to read.
A long, chilling, well-documented and detailed look at Hitler's rise to power and his maneuvering to build (and betray) allies that bolstered his drive to power in Europe.
And, finally, how the egotism and complete lack of loyalty to anything or anyone but that obsession with power led to the collapse of Germany and his ultimate, cowardly suicide in that beleaguered bunker.
The entire history has lessons to be learned about assessing the complexities of international relations -- and how letting things go too far can have such enormous and tragic consequences.
This book is utterly compelling.
It is difficult to believe it is a work of fact not fiction so outlandish are the events related within.
At the risk of violating Godwin's law, it is difficult not to draw parallels between the rise of Hitler and more current affairs.
For example his use of mass media to reach out directly to his supporters strikes a chord with recent elections.
Bullock's work, written just 7 years after the death of Hitler, provides many insights into the defining events of the 1930s and 40s and possibly offers a glimpse into our own dystopian future.
Fascinating Man, a controversial description no doubt, A tyrant yes, A devil yes, but 13 million Germans voted him in under Nazism, Hitler was not an outsider, that was what Germany was at the time, a vexation from the depression and defeat of 1918, Hitler was only a symptom of a sickness which riddled Germany, the people followed him the army responded.
I had thought Hitlers mistake was his decision to invade soviet Russia, but No it's deeper than just that.
Who was Adolf Hitler?
Man or Not
Forensic like study of how the sheer will of just one man. Changed the fate of a small National socialist party. To unleash a rabid determination to create a new world in his own crude vision.By understanding his rise a ripple effect of political aggression and opportune gangster-ism. Dispels the myth of a pure evil and a uniqueness to Germany or its people.But Buoyed by the righteousness of success.A single mindedness of fate and an emperors new clothes.By stripping back the myth the man only becomes more disturbing in the ideological, enigmatic, ordinariness of A power at all costs politician
