https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735321.Five_on_a_Hike_Together
Hot on the heels of an adventure wholly dependent on parking a caravan on the only square yard of a wild sprawling moorland that matters, Enid brings us an adventure that relies not only on Dick being in a particular barn at a particular time, but also on him being called Dick.
(Note, Dick was also confused with another Dick in another book in the series and ends up being kidnapped by mistake.)A rabbit-related injury to Timmy splits the five into two groups.
Failing to recover stolen goods wasn't a crime last time I checked.A reasonable addition to the series, with the usual love letter to ripe plums, ginger beer etc thrown in.Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes.
Needless to say, they soon find themselves neck deep in another adventure.Due to Dick not being able to follow a set of simple directions, he and Anne end up staying the night at the wrong farm, which leads to the kids getting involved with a criminal gang who are plotting to recover their stolen loot.
Thanks to Dick getting his hands on a set of clues as to the loot's location, the kids decide to beat the criminals to it, so that they can give the stolen loot to the police.This one clips along at a fair old pace, with the action starting almost straight away and not really letting up until the final chapter.
I don't even like pork, but when they eat the pork, ham, egg and cheese sandwiches I always want one!
Adventure is on as the five go off to find the treasure before Dirty Dick and Maggie, and all over the course of four days before they have to go back to school.
I like that they see the other side of life and Anne and Dick have to stay with a woman who doesn't think these middle class kids are excellent and treat them as such.
5 Stars.
Petualangan ke-10 Lima Sekawan!Dick menerima pesan rahasia dari narapidana yang kabur!
Semester ini kebetulan Julian, Dick, George dan Anne mempunyai hari libur yang sama.
Kesempatan ini dipakai Julian untuk mengajak saudara-saudaranya melancong berjalan kaki menyusuri padang-ladang dan pertanian.
Seperti biasa saya selalu merasa sedang bersama Lima Sekawan menyusuri padang, pertanian dan hutan kecil.
Enid memang mempunyai talenta yang membuat saya bisa membayangkan setiap kalimat yang beliau tulis.Petualangan yang ini menurut saya tidak terlalu menegangkan tapi perjalanan mereka sangat menyenangkan.
Belum lagi penggambaran karakter Julian, Dick, George dan Anne yang makin bagus.
Saya sangat terhibur dengan segala banter yang mereka lakukan satu sama lain.
An diese Folge habe ich mich stets erinnert - aus irgendeinem Grund hat mich die Musik sehr ängstlich gemacht und wenn die bestimmte Musiksequenz in anderen Folgen vorkam, bekam ich immer ein bisschen ein unangenehmes Gefühl. Ich weiss (noch) nicht, ob das neue hören der Folge dies nun ändern wird.. die Folge selbst hat mir gefallen, sehr atmosphärisch mit dem See und auch die kurze Trennung der Vieren macht sie speziell. [30.09.2018]
it has got so wonderful adventure that i wish i was one of them
It's taken 10 books for them to be referred to as The Famous Five.The tension of the writing in this was excellent - had myself and the boy captivated to the end.
Kid fiction is fun to read.ReviewThe plotThe plot is always that the five of the characters get into some trouble while seeking adventure.
They solve mysteries, save others from trouble, eat a lot of delicious food.
Does it sound like HP?
And HP has a great world built inside the books.
The charactersI like how the characters are built.
I can remember them for their character traits.
George: A slightly arrogant, but likable daughter, raised more like a son.
Anne: Geroge's cousin.
Almost opposite of George, behaves most sensibly.
Julian & Dick: Anne's brothers.
Timmy: George's dog.
VerdictFor kids, must read.
... reading with my 9 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. I thought it was time to show them to her.She loved it and has already picked the next one in this series.
Five on a Hike Together (Famous Five #10, 1951) Brief Summary by Poppy Hutchinson (quoted from www.enidblytonsociety.co.uk, since the book blurb is so uninformative): A half-term holiday enables Julian, Dick, Anne, George and Timmy to reunite and make off on a hiking tour.
Dick and Anne, when parted from Julian and George, manage to end up at the wrong Farmhouse, at which Dick receives a strange message in the middle of the night, actually intended for a man called 'Dirty Dick': a message which includes some key clues to a mystery...Random thoughts:The girls have a short mid-term break.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
Para que una infancia sea completa se debe al menos leer alguno de los libros que conforman la serie de Los Cinco. En este libro, una nueva aventura, de fin de semana, llena de amistad, pequeños peligros y como siempre mucha y muy apetitosa comida. Un buen libro para enganchar a los más jóvenes en el mundo de la lectura.
This was another fun read. The hike in the moors made interesting read and the neat mystery with no secret passages and stuff - they are fascinating but overdoing them make them cliched and boring. The method of locating a place in the river was novel. The clues and all were a bit far fletched - a common criminal would unlikely to be giving crytpic clues and stuff.
Fun trip down memory lane... Reading their love for outdoor makes me wonder if their outings planted the seed of my longing for greenfix!
o jovem cansado de tanto se debater contra entidades criminosas duvidosas - porque diabos lhe caberia a ele, criança de dezoito anos, a tarefa de expurgar o reino unido das forças do mal?depois de se espremer, dick repara que o papel higiénico está na bancada.
tal gesto nem terá durado três segundos mas, quando o rapaz regressava ao assento, embateu contra algo - era um criminoso que vasculhava a maculada sanita em busca do saque que havia escondido uma certa noite.dick grita, com menos pânico que ira - está absolutamente farto da justiceira sina dos seis.horas depois, cansados e esfomeados depois de pedalarem alguns minutos, os jovens deparam-se com um matadouro.
"Two pupils at Julian’s and Dick’s school win a scholarship, so that the school gets extra holidays.
Because Anne and George have a mid-term break at the same time the Five decide immediately to go for a hike across the countryside...."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child.
I trawled through secondhand stores and slowly acquired all of them.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
This one is my favorite in the series, simply because of the beautiful way the stolen jewelry was hidden. The way the five friends discovered the meaning of the pencil sketch and ingeniously managed to discover the goods before the criminals was very cleverly written.
In third standard I was introduced to the beautiful world of Enid Blyton and from that time I love reading her famous five and secret seven series although I have not read all the books but those I read were quite interesting and this one too was a good read.
I never had chance to read Enid's books during my childhood. I found this the most entertaining adventure thriller of young kids. This was my first book of this series and look forward to read more.recommended for young readers!!
Semua novel Lima Sekawan menyisakan kenangan indah bagi saya yang waktu itu masih SD/SMP saat membacanya pertama kali. Imajinatif banget menggambarkan kehidupan anak2 di barat karna dulu masih jarang film hollywood yang bisa ditonton.
After the last 2 or 3 books, I liked that none of the children were taken or tied up. I liked the story and their way of recovering the "loot". Timmy didn't attack anyone just growled at them! Good job, five!
Read it earlier but not that bad and it does make you go to someplace like this which is impossible in this time.
Feminism should be represented in this story!
The best of the series, in my opinion. Two Trees, Gloomy Water, Saucy Jane and Maggie knows. Enough said.
I liked the book because it's really interesting and it was fun to read. All of them were my favourite and they are Julian,Dick,Anne,George and Timmy the dog.
Fun tale. Liked how the clues were given. 😊
My absolute favourite among all Famous Five books. My copy of this one is worn out from being read way too many times.
