https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2572602-borden-of-yale
Never have I read a book of a life lived so few years who impacted the Kingdom of Christ to such a degree!
At a time when many young men his age are only interested in girls, money, or partying, William wholeheartedly was pursuing God's will for his life - that of the preparation of the giving of his life to reach the Muslims in northwest China.What I find fascinating about this story and what speaks to the character of this young man, was the "realness" of his walk and Christian life while going through college.
Borden of Yale tells the story of a young man, William Borden who lived at the turn of the 20th century with a heart for God. The book is truly inspiring as it depicts William's life from childhood to college to seminary school then to the short time beyond.
As a current college student William's story was so inspiring and impacted me in more ways than I expected.
Regardless, it's an awesome book and an inspiring story about a young man after God's own heart.
This book is one I'll probably buy at some point, and read to my kids as preparation for their own missions.
The comments by various people in this book illustrate things I always wondered about as a teen but never heard straight-forward enough answers to, to show what great work teenagers can do, without always having to be waiting and just preparing to be an adult.
This book almost seems to show me that being a missionary is the work of very young people.
Here is a young man of Borden fortune with all that the world has to offer at his fingertips and he gives it up and away.
On his Epitaph of William Whiting Borden (1887-1913)...
A man in Christ He arose and forsook all and followed Him, Kindly affectioned with brotherly love, Fervent in spirit serving the Lord, Rejoicing in hope, Patient in tribulation, Instant in prayer, Communicating to the necessity of saints, In honour preferring others, Apart from faith in Christ, There is no explanation for such a life.Read it and consider.
William Borden did not succumb to the enticements of wealth, privilege or academic success, though all could have defined and redirected his short life.
To the end, "a life of real consecration to the work of God" was his aim.
Samuel Zwemer, Borden's mentor and friend during his time in Cairo did not believe Borden's death was in vain: "Of course it will cost a life.
It is not an expedition of ease nor a picnic excursion to which we are called...
it is going to cost many a life, and not lives only, but prayers and tears and blood.
Wow!
What an amazing biography!
I understand this book is out of print.
I picked it up in my church library.
William Borden was an unknown to me before reading it.
It profoundly moved me!
What a life!
He was described as "a man with the frame of an athlete, the mind of a scholar, the grasp of a theologian as regards God’s truth, and the heart of a little child, full of faith and love.” Used of God in a mighty way.
Hands down, the most moving book I've read in years.
Since picking it up a week or so, I've shared exerpts with a multitude of people.
Another Christian biography that is an outstanding story of an outstanding man. Unfortunately as with George Mueller, this book was not well written. In spite of that, working through it had value is seeing the result of his life, though presented very one-sided in this book. He was a very wealthy aristocrat who lived for ministry among the poor and lost, and is a worthy example for any era.
The life of William Borden is an inspiration. The use of his & his family's letters to paint his life was for the most part interesting. There were places though that seemed repetitious & dry at times. I'm sure that little is known about the last days of his life but it felt like the book suddenly came to a screeching stop. I did get more quotes to keep in the last 25% of the book.
A great book about a great life. Hard to read, mostly content was from his letters. If you love reading about some of Christianities forgotten heroes, this one is good.
Another great young man of faith in Jesus.
