https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23745132-wreckage
Am I taking crazy pills? This book was pants-on-head ridiculous. I read it in one sitting and it completely fell apart 2/3-3/4 of the way through. The dialogue wasn't immersive. The characters weren't compelling. I felt like I was stranded on an island for like, four hours and would have pitched myself off of a cliff if I was trapped with Lily, David, or their clunky plot devices irl.
While the narration was okay, the story felt "flat" to me.
The blurb was intriguing, but the story itself failed to draw me in.'Wreckage' tells the story of Lillian and Dave, who have returned to the families after being rescued from a remote island where they were stranded for nearly two years.
It is evident early-on that Lillian and Dave are keeping some secrets about what took place on the island.Listening to this book, I can't say that I was surprised by many of the "big reveals".
Unfortunately, it just fell flat for me.I was also surprised to find that I didn't feel any strong connection between Dave and Lillian.
With a little spit and polish, this debut novel could shine a bit brighter. I liked the idea of the story, but I was not able to sink my teeth into any of the characterizations, just not enough there. In my opinion, the dialogue was awkward and the ending too trite. What the author got exactly right was the predatory nature of the media.This was a Kindle First offering, so the bargain price of free was much appreciated. Thank you.
The one dimensional characters that were either irritating or ineffectual.The dialogue was puerile and trite. The storyline was predictable,lacking originality.The ending was absurd.Suffice it to say,I found this book to be a wreck.
A page-turning, absorbing survival adventure....that at times you'd wish you'd gone along, yet so audaciously life-threatening you're grateful you didn't.
Immediately "Wreckage" pulls you in!
A fully satisfying novel...from start to finish!Touching intimacy!!!
I won't be surprised at all if "Emily Bleeker" becomes a household name!
This book is just soooooooooofully satisfying to read!
I'd love to see the movie made also!I'm looking forward --(will smile big time)-- to see this book on the best sellers list.
People around town are going to be talking about "WRECKAGE"!!!!
Its a new 'it' book!!!
Thank you Netgalley ...the Publishing Company...and to "EMILY BLEEKER"!
This is not an ideal situation: a better-than-average story that devolves into something silly and unbelievable. Most of this book was compelling, easy, interesting enough to keep me turning the pages quickly...then all of a sudden it began unraveling, as the dialog got cheesy and the ending absurd. It lost its shine toward the end but it was still an enjoyable book. 3 stars.
He read like a soap opera villain, and his attempted rape of Lillian was something I saw coming from a mile away.
But Dave felt that way about her before the crash, or he was starting to, and after she got home he expected her to abandon her husband and children for him.
The author told me it was there, but she never showed me, which made it difficult for me not to roll my eyes at these two adults acting like teenagers in "paradise."Lillian herself had a bit of depth, but she was always the victim.
Ugh.Long Version:Wreckage revolves around two survivors of a plane crash, Lillian and Dave, who'd spent two years trapped on a deserted island together.
Theresa and Margaret are the only ones fortunate enough to bail out of this story early, leaving Lillian, Dave, and Kent to fend for themselves.
The book shifts between the interviews and scenes on the island.This book started out promising, even as I joked, "Is this going to be like that Guy Ritchie and Madonna movie?" Looking at some of the other reviews for this book that thought terrible things like cannibalism would come into play while reading this, I wished I'd been more creative with my question.
But things happened on the island, things that Lillian and Dave have vowed never to talk about if they are rescued, which they don't believe will ever happen.
And when they finally are rescued, they vow to tell their families their version of the truth, nothing else."Sometimes you have to lie.
She hopes that finally sharing their version of the story will put the questions and suspicions aside, and let everyone go back to living their lives, even if they're not sure that's what they want.Emily Bleeker's 
The book shifts back and forth between the crash and the present, and switches between Lillian and Dave as narrators.
I really enjoyed the first 75%, but I found the last 25% completely hokey and ridiculous.
This book started out as a real page turner but I absolutely hated the ending. I'm definitely not a person who was hoping that Lily and Dave would end up together but the whole last chapter was ridiculous to me. Beth is impregnated with Lily and Dave's baby and everyone is cool with that? This ruined a perfectly good book for me!
I raced through this book and actually said "no way" out loud at one point. Fantastic read.
After their private plane crashes into the South Pacific, Lillian, Dave, Kent, and Margaret end up on a deserted island.
Flight attendant Theresa died before the plane hit the water.
Margaret died within a day of landing on the island.
Second, if you're going to lie about how Kent died, why bother mentioning that Kent even made it to the island?
It was a little nauseating that when two men and a woman are stranded together on a deserted island, CLEARLY one of the men will turn out to be a rapist.
I think anyone could understand a romantic relationship developing between two people who don't think that they will ever see home again.
Surrounding the aftermath of a plane crash, Wreckage is a story of love and survival for a handful of survivors on an island. I liked the characters and enjoyed the narration of this story. It was perhaps a little slow-paced at times, but overall quite a good story.I borrowed this in audiobook format through Kindle Unlimited.
It was pretty alright. :)I love Kindle Firsts!
The biggest success of this book for me was the tangible and intense connection between Lillian and Dave.
This book is told in the present with the past island scenes being shared in interviews given by Lillian and Dave independently of each other.
There were several great scenes that upped the ante, but in general I think this book could have been more intense.
Regardless, I liked it, absolutely loved the visceral connection between Dave and Lillian, the hurdles of fitting back into their old lives and the originality.
4.5 stars.
I would totally give this 5 stars except that it ended with me feeling hollow.
Not that I was surprised or even disappointed...(maybe I was a bit).
But this book was amazing to me.
I was immersed in this story.
I couldn't wait to see how all these secrets played out and came out.
Looking at this book from a wife and mother prospective, I love the ending.
Looking at it from a readers perspective and what I really wanted, I'm bummed and torn.
The ending kinda took away from the whole book.
It's all I can focus on in my review.
So when I started reading it, and found out that the reporter is really not much of a threat, and her role consisted of interviewing Lillian and Dave and asking them "tough" questions for the WHOLE DURATION of the book, ending with her basically giving up on finding out what really happened, I was honestly put off.
And the jumping back and forth in time to see what really took place on the island, reading from Lillian and Dave's POV, was not exciting either.
I just wanted this book to end so I can find out who Paul was.
Alternatively narrated by Lillian and Dave, the chapters switch from the plane crash to the aftermath of their rescue.
Oh this book was full of so many lies and two pretty dumb protagonists.
That's right, I hated both Lillian and Dave, but a little part of me wonders if maybe my dislike was stronger given the audio.
I give kudos to the author for spinning us in a different direction even though I am still on the fence of how I felt about it.
For what it's worth, he was pretty perfect for the fictional world.
This was a fabulous read that I couldn't put down. The characters were complex and kept you on the edge of your seat.
So the prose isn't great and the characters aren't the roundest I've come across, but this is another fun weekend read.
The last twist at the end did surprise me, which was nice because some of the other plot points weren't hugely shocking (a lot of signposting here).
I did, however, think that the introduction of Paul as a character was a little clumsy.
Instead of wondering who he was, I was trying to figure out if he had already been introduced and I had just missed it somehow.
All in all, a fun and fairly light read -- recommended if you need a bit of a break from some heavy stuff.
An excellent debut novel.
The title describes this book perfectly.
Found in a nightmare situation the characters are believable including the reporter who doesn't appear to have a empathic bone in her.
In a plane crash and stranded together on a island for months Kent, Lillian and David develop working relationships.
As time progresses character traits become more critical and exaggerated.
Both the best and worst of people evolves as time goes on.
I couldn't put this one down.
Made me wonder what we all would do if found in the situation of this novel.
GOD!I loved everything about this book.
Hot freaking Chocolate people.
I loved Lillian and Dave's characters throughout the book.
The stuff that those two had to go through was terrifying, yet amazing because they are alive.
Yes, they are adjusting to life still but their story was still freaking mysterious, interesting, and I honestly couldn't put my headphones down.
I liked both narrators for the audio because they just made the book that more interesting to me.
I loved the story, the twists, and everything else.
I'm definitely going to look forward to more stuff from Emily Bleeker.
This book was like a store bought generic bakery product.
While I was reading it wasn't awful but the next morning I realized it was just empty calories, artificial flavors and colors.There is not a single likeable main character in the book.
And the author tells you this right off the bat.
The basic premise is like Gilligan's Island without charm.
A small plane is forced to ditch in the ocean and three survive and make it to a small deserted island where it gets ugly quickly.The book is related as memories from the stranded and as part of an interview with a media star.
As an Amazon Prime member, I am able to get a free Kindle book each month via their Kindle First program.
The premise of people getting stranded on a desert island has certainly been attempted before but the inherent drama of the situation is undermined because we are introduced to two of the survivors early on as they agree to participate in a TV interview.
Basically, I finished the book because I was hoping that the big reveals weren't so obvious but, alas, they were.

I have to say that at times I got a bit frustrated, I wanted to 'gee it up a bit' because some things were taking ages to pan out.
But we got there in the end, as you do.A plane crash changed not only the survivors but also the relatives of those that were involved, we see that plainly from the event.We see secrets and lies too.
Para Genevieve Randall, (tal como diz a sinopse: uma jornalista experiente e obstinada) aquilo parece demasiado misterioso e então através de uma entrevista a cada um, decide procurar algo que destrua aquela versão da história que eles tentam contar.O livro vai nos contando a história do acidente conforme a entrevista vai andando, conseguimos assim absorver os pormenores um por um, tornando a história mais interessante, prendendo-nos ao enredo e curiosos com tudo o que está a acontecer e com algumas dúvidas já aparecer.Senti que foi um livro completo, com ( ler continuação neste link https://nerdechique.wordpress.com/201...)
The aftermath of a plane crash.
What happens to those who against all odds survive?
Lillian Linden and her mother in-law,a flight attendant,the pilot and a company owner are on the plane when it jettisons into the ocean.
Those who survive must fight for their lives and their sanity as they go forward.
I tired of Lillian and her wanting it both ways.
Even though intellectually I understood how hard it must be to go through what happened,emotionally she wore me out.
Beyond the crash of the plane,the physical and emotional toll on all involved made the title so appropriate.
Intriguing and convoluted story line but "surface" characters needed much more depth. I really don't know why Dave was so great or what made Kent so malicious. Lillian was...well, she needed more believability.
