https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80183.The_Egg_and_Other_Stories
If you answered "Why, yes!" to this question and started delighting in the notion of romantic comedies and glitter-and-magic-stuffed, demigod-like characters leading impossibly perfect lives with lots of hot sex and money and adventure, then read no further; Sherwood Anderson is not for you.
(Clarification: I mean "heartbreak" in so many more ((and often more important)) senses than simply the romantic.) This novel examines people who have been defeated for so long that they have become almost wholly unaware of it, but he does it at the exact moment when one recent circumstance or another has served as (a) catalyst(s) for long-overdue self-examination.
There is a great clearing away of brush and debris in Anderson’s manner, an intentional obliviousness to the extraneous, as he continually gets at the inner workings of his characters.Emotional imprisonment and melancholy, along with the tangible desire to escape such conditions, which only exacerbates, are very comforting to me; in literature at least.I do remember my love for it but I don’t remember the molecular details of Winesburg all that well, but in my mind The Triumph of the Egg is the next logical step as it feeds on Winesburg’s various portrayals of small town imprisonment and frustration to present a few tales of people who actually do escape to somewhere else.
She's looking for proof to hold in her hand and maybe that's it.Rosalind goes home to see if it is possible to be with her mother and know herself with another presence resting on the unspoken.
I know what it feels like when Elsie is small to the world and huge eyes to herself.
I had a feeling about all of these stories that they could have something I always wanted and don't know how to get it.
When it is too late I know that he loved her and she wants the real person she always dreamed of.
Some of the comments that people have left about this book leave me baffled.
Like, Winesburg, Anderson explores a side of society, many people in his time refused to talk about and explore--the eccentrics, the lonely, and those who who were not accepted such as the homosexuals.
Not only that, he shows the hypocrisy, humanity and charity that exists in American people.
There is a reason Anderson is the Godfather of the American Modern Generation (Faulkner, Hemingway, and Steinbeck).
The bad reviews on goodreads of this book will die--The Egg and Other Stories will live on.
No non-sense fiction for the common man (and woman).
Simple and forthright, almost alarmingly shrewd and perceptive.
All of these stories explore the infinite layers of man [and woman's] alienation with each other and oneself.Reminds me of Steinbeck's style: resplendent prose with distinctly unaffected beauty.
As evidenced by his writing, Anderson is (1) an astute observer of human interaction and (2) a surveyor of the vast and labyrinthine complexities [and contradictions] of the internal landscape.+ "I cannot shake myself out of myself....
Some day I shall speak to myself.
Some day I shall make a testament unto myself."
People struggle to grasp their and others’ longings.
Sherwood Anderson, who greatly influenced Ernest Hemingway and William Faulkner, published in 1921 a collection of short stories called THE EGG AND OTHER STORIES.
It came two years after his classic WINESBURG, OHIO.
The title story in this collection is quite humorous, while most of the stories have themes of mortality, lives not fully lived, yearnings, dreams of escapement, disappointments, and the necessity of connection between people.Anderson’s writing is wonderful.
He tends to be repetitive in his words, but not to the point of irritation.Although his words are wonderful, this is not a book you want to read if you’re depressed!
In "Seeds," the character pines, "I want more than anything else in the world to be clean." In "Brothers," the leaves themselves "should go dancing away," lending an image of "what beauty could be." In "The Man with the Trumpet," we read the desperation of one shouting for something better than humanity's normal course: "I said they might build temples to themselves." And in the novella "Out of Nowhere into Nothing," the protagonist somewhat abruptly even finds an alternative to the usual lifelessness, for at the end of the story Rosalind felt she "was a creator of light." I will be interested to go back and reread, but I do not recall any characters arriving at any desires, conclusions, or thoughts much beyond their trivial, mundane, day-to-day existence in Winesburg, Ohio.The use of nature in this series of stories is also exceptional.
These aren't just characters; they're people.
Anderson's people matter more than their stories.
The best part of reading it this time around was seeing which stories I marked then and which ones caught my attention now, several years later.
I recommend this book to lovers of people in stories and to readers who want to read pre-Hemingway, pre-Fitzgerald, and pre-Faulkner, all of whom read Anderson and claimed a kinship with his writing.
Faulkner even went so far as to call Anderson the father of his stories (back cover of my edition).
The back cover of this book says that Sherwood Anderson inspired Steinbeck, Hemingway and many other classic American authors and I believe it. These are some powerful little stories without flowery language which focus on being human. The song of life and death. Looking forward to more Sherwood.
Done, and it always bums me out when I do so. The stories are timeless and at times formless. The stories are like ghosts trying gliding through the pages, giving the reader a peek of the ghostly form and then they disappear. Just a perfect little book that's ever been writ!
this wasn't terrible, but just not worth spending time on when there are so many other more fulfilling things to read and a limited lifespan in which to read them. not anywhere in the ballpark of "winesburg."
I had a bit of a difficult time with this book.
Especially since my mom lent it to me with the hope that I would read and enjoy it.
I like my books with a definite beginning, middle and end.
I feel like much of this book made me profoundly sad...sad for the characters who want more than their lives have given them and yet can't seem to accomplish "more."I also had the bad timing of reading this after reading P.G. Wodehouse's Reggie Pepper and Jeeves and Wooster stories.
Glad to have read it, sad I didn't love it.
Master storyteller. Few writers are capable of using the magic of words as well as Sherwood Anderson. He was the inspiration of many a great writer. After reading his works one sees why. He should be read early in life.
amazing, yes. because it amazes. sherwood anderson is a woman, and a brown man, and poor, and wealthy. sherwood anderson is amazing.
This a dark work.
Or rather a series of dark works.
I cannot call them essays, and they are not short stories in the classic sense.
Perhaps vignettes, or portraits, or excerpts of life as the author saw it.
But in any event they are dark and I cannot read more than one or two at a time.
At times I am reminded of Twain's descriptions of small towns and people, but it would be Twain infused with Ambrose Bierce's view of man and life.Some say Anderson's work is about post-industrial, small town life in the Midwest.
As you read you feel that you are sitting on a porch with the character and they relate the story just as people do in real life, oftentimes wandering off into other trains of thought, but then bringing you back with "But, that's not what I wanted to tell you about." Anderson chronicles the lives of ordinary people and his most common theme is the modernization of America and what was lost in the process.
He returns to this same theme in the story within the frame of "Brothers." Here again, a man becomes obsessed by another woman that he knows he can't have - "unattainable like far off stars...but she is real." He ends up knifing his wife.
Sherwood Anderson crafted a realistic short story that not only unearths the grotesque in human nature, but demonstrates the value of dropping out and breaking away—by showing us just the opposite.
In THE EGG, Anderson describes a contemporary (modern for the time) farm-hand who has childlike (innocent, imaginative) ideas, but is pushed to “do better” in life.
Sherwood Anderson, himself, experienced a “moment of being” when he walked away from his American dream.
I believe THE EGG demonstrates what the anti-success Anderson would’ve gained from chasing the American dream, just as the father did in his story.
This passage from 'The Door of the Trap' made me burst out with laughter:"He asked the merchant's son to stay for a moment and, when the two were alone together in the room, he grew suddenly and furiously angry.
His voice was, however, cold and steady.
'Young man,' he said, 'you do not come into this room to write on the back of a book and waste your time.
If I see anything of the kind again I'll do something you don't expect.
I'll throw you out through a window, that's what I'll do.'"So many strange little moments like this in the work of Anderson.
After my first reading Sherwood Anderson while I was in high school, I was completely enamored of his short stories, his mastery at character sketches, and his vivid descriptions created with few words. That was before I'd read Chekov. Upon this re-reading of Anderson's classic, "The Egg," I kept thinking how rudimentary his writing is compared to Brother Anton. I believe I'm now ruined for any short stories not penned by The Russian. Anderson was an excellent American short fiction writer of the early 20th century, but he was no Chekov.
According to Raymond Carver, Sherwood Anderson thought "The Egg" was the best thing he'd ever written. His other favorite stories were "The Untold Lie," "Hands," "Out of Nowhere into Nothing," "I Want to Know Why," and "I'm a Fool." RC would add "Death in the Woods" and "The Man Who Became a Woman," at the least.
I think that the author was mentally strange and that "infected" all of his characters in this collection of short stories, just as in his "Poor White" and in his short stories, "Winesburg, Ohio." All his characters are trying to find themselves, or escape from their selves -- and all seem a bit "out of it." I will never read anything by him again!
Reading Sherwood Anderson, I learned the same thing he had to tell Faulkner: stick to what you know. The most ordinary of people can live extraordinary lives. What goes on behind the doors of one's home can be more interesting and complicated than an epic poem. Anderson also helped me with sentence structure. Clear and concise sentences that are simply beautiful.
i love sherwood anderson, and this was a decent collection of his short stories, but i really have a problem with the cover. it is literally an egg draped in velvet laid on a scanner. designers, this is lazy and you should be ashamed of yourselves. let us not speak of the interior. dover thrift editions is sorely in need of a brand-wide redesign.
I enjoyed the short stories in this book immensely. Anderson shows a deep insight into the human condition and develops his characters with compassion and tenderness. This collection is a real gem. Read it if you get the chance.
One of the best or the best?
As great a collection of stories as I have ever read. The title story in particular is a prefect example of the form.
ssa
I thought I was getting good at interpreting off-the-wall stuff, but a few of these stories still have me baffled.
This set of short stories was written shortly after Winesberg Ohio and deals with the same themes. It has the lyricism and consistent high quality of Winesberg -- the work of a true artist.
