https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16690.The_Moon_is_a_Harsh_Mistress
TANSTAAFL = There ain't no such thing as a free lunch.My three favorite books of all time are (in no order) Heart of Darkness, The Dispossessed, and The Moon is a Harsh Mistress.
And just as The Fountainhead is the better, though less epic, of the pair with Atlas Shrugged, so is Moon is a Harsh Mistress, the more focused and simple of the two, better than Stranger in a Strange Land.
Told from the first person recollection of a computer technician (with thick Russian accent) and of the birth and progress of the Lunar independence.The Moon (Luna to it’s residents – who call themselves Loonies) has been a penal colony for decades.
i think others may have more excitement when playing a game they know they'll win.
and that's the impression that i'm left with after reading the enjoyable Moon Is a Harsh Mistress.the novel is about a revolution on Luna by its oppressed permanent labor force.
and of course we have our sentient computer Mike, who likes to play games.
Heinlein's passions come across mainly in the world-building of this almost-utopia and in the very detailed expression of how exactly to overthrow the chains of oppression through revolution (and i suppose a bit of terrorism, at times).so back to my original point.
Over the course of his career, Heinlein seemed to espouse every possible viewpoint on religion, government, and gender relations (obviously, he liked to stick to small themes), showing little tolerance for moderate opinions.
You see, it's really about libertarianism -- or, as one of the book's heroes characterizes it, "rational anarchism."So, a small group of revolutionaries attempts to liberate the moon from her Earthbound oppressors, and institute a perfect anarcho-syndicalist commune in their stead.
Even when the characters decide to take 10 pages off and simply talk politics for a while, it's enthralling.
But all of this simply serves to illustrate Heinlein's mastery of the ideological paradox.
Having recently reread Robert Heinlein's The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, I couldn't stop thinking about the parallels between the awakened computer, Mycroft (Mike) in this novel and Alexa.
The Moon is a Harsh Mistress feels a little clunky in my reread, but this side plot (Mike awakening) works well with the main plot (overthrowing Earth's control of the Moon).
I would also have liked more on the implications of Mike's awakening, but overall Heinlein tells an interesting and enjoyable story about the not so distant future.
Throw rocks at them?Nah, but we could have a tea party.Wow. I'm still amazed at how good this Revolution novel has held up over the years.
It's amazing that this book is actually a How-To-Guide on how to stage a successful revolution against a technologically and militarily superior foe, from initial planning, leverage, sleeper cells, and of course, political preparation, communication, diplomacy, and economics.
Can't forget that.But I suppose the one thing that sticks in my mind most strongly is the planetary computer, Mycroft.
Very disappointing: 2.5* (it's not terrible, but it's weaker than books I award 3*, and I enjoyed it far less).I know of Heinlein as a sci-fi author and had heard of some interesting language-type things that make this novel unique, principally a Lunar dialect.
In this community, the scarcity of women gives them more power in relationships, which is a nice idea, but the opposite of what seems to be the case in China, decades after their one-child policy was introduced, with reports of young women being abducted and forced into marriage.Most of the humans living in tunnels on Luna are free: either the descendants of deported criminals, or they have served their time.
I also enjoyed reading about Luna's culture; I thought the marriage customs were particularly interesting.One thing I noticed right off was the way the Loonies use language differently than people from earth do.
For example, the idea behind the character of Mike -- the computer that is connected to everything and has "woken up" or become alive -- is one that is very familiar to modern readers, one that we accept easily.
To modern readers familiar with the internet, this is an obvious step and hardly shocking; we expect it, and Wyoh's shock and apparent need to have every detail and implication of Mike's "life" spelled out for her makes her seem a little bit stupid to us.
But women actually have a pretty dominant role in Heinlein's lunar society...
It's a penal colony, and Heinlein reckons that means there are going to be far fewer women then men there - so he's come up with a system called 'line-marriage'...
Obviously, he's not going to get any badges from feminists, but he does at least ask a few interesting questions about the way women were viewed in his own world...The characters explicitly reject using patriotism as a method to revolution.
The characters explicitly reject using patriotism as a method to revolution.
THIS REVIEW CONTAINS MULTIPLE HEINLEIN SPOILERSRobert Heinlein was a good friend of AI legend Marvin Minsky (check out his people page!
OK, love the idea of the guy from Mars, who doesn't understand how people work and has to learn the most basic things about emotions, society, etc from first principles.
But I think you got a bit distracted with the super-powers and the sex.
And I wasn't so thrilled by the fact that he never actually does anything much with his powers, except for start a minor cult and get martyred.
And he helps them start a revolution, and break free from Earth's tyranny?
kitabı Yıldız Gemisi Askerleri'ydi, 20.
kitabı da Ay Zalim bir Sevgilidir oldu, acaba 30.
kitapta Yaban Diyardaki Yabancı mı olacak diye düşünmeden edemedim.Yıldız gemisi askerleri ile militarizm ile başlayan savaşı sorgulama bu kitapla birlikte daha farklı yanlardan bir sorgulamaya gidiyor.Hapishane olarak kullanılan Ay'ın Terra otoritesine karşı gerçekleştirmeye çalıştığı devrim konu alınıyor ancak kurgudan çok devri nasıl yapılır kılavuzuydu.
aynı zamanda kadın-erkek ilişkileri, evlilik ve boşanmadan toplumsal kurallar ve cezalara kadar pek çok farklı alanda deneysel düşünceler ortaya koyuyor.Ben bireysel olarak bilimkurgu romanında kullanılan ögelerin bilimsel dayanaklarının (kurguya müdahale edilmeden) açıklanmasını talep ederim.
Bilimkurgu soslu kuram kitabı gibiydi roman.
So I gave up on Heinlein all together, figuring if his most famous and critically acclaimed book was no good, what chance did the others have?
With the help of Mike the computer, Mannie (a computer tech who talks - and narrates the story - in an obnoxious dialect that sounds like someone faking a Russian accent very poorly), Prof, and Wyoh engineer a revolution.
Now I wonder, how many more of his books do I need to read before I can officially say I don't like Heinlein?
It seems then that The Moon is, in fact, a rather Lenient Mistress.…and naïve, sexist, and outdated.
Duh. Ironically, because Heinlein obviously attempted to do otherwise, the book’s depiction of women is nothing less than creepy thereby granting TITLE NUMBER THREE.
That’s your fate in life, apparently.I mean, despite narrator telling us that Loonie women are empowered and in charge of society, the book consistently depicts them in subordinate or domestic roles.
Heinlein, who obviously doesn’t get human nature and even less woman nature, seems to believe that this is a GOOD depiction of women.
The technology!New Title: The Moon is an Outdated Mistress.
The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress: Soap-box on the MoonOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureHeinlein’s libertarian creed is TANSTAAFL ("There ain't no such thing as a free lunch"), and this book is probably the most complete expression of his political ideas about self-government, attempts to empower women while still being incredibly sexist and condescending, and some pretty good hard SF extrapolation of what a moon colony’s technology, politics and economy might be like.
HAL before HAL. One of Heinlein's best.
I think Heinlein wanted to write a story about governing systems.
The scifi elements did necessitate the need for a sentient AI who could perform almost godlike tasks in order to ensure a successful outcome.
The scifi elements were also part of why it seems like some kind of drug infused dream of the 60s than an actual scifi novel.
OMG the treatment and characterizations of women and "others" (people not white males) as Valerie says "God bless him" (Heinlein).
To be honest it was a strange cross-section of sophomoric (especially with women and to some extent libertarian) views and some advanced, sophisticated thinking and an interesting examination of governing systems.
Because of my experience, I vowed I would never read Heinlein again.
Several people told me that Stranger in a Strange Land wasn't really his best work and that I should try The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress instead.
(A $4.95 sale at Audible really decided it for me.) I will hereby vow never to read anything by Heinlein again.
There just aren't enough reading hours in a lifetime to spend trying to discover why this author is considered to be a science fiction great.The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress started off promising.
Fantastic! I won't be able to do this book justice in a review, but it really is one of the best I've ever read. The language is brilliant and makes you feel that you really are living on the moon. The Loonies are interesting and the plot kept me completely absorbed and desperate to hear what happened next throughout. One of the best revolutions I've ever had the pleasure to read. Highly recommended!
I think he's doing more questioning than pushing & that leads to some fun with the characters, especially Prof.Prof is the Heinlein wise elder character while Manny is the middle aged incarnation.
(Come to think of it, that's pretty much how I go through life.) His remarks to the new Lunar Congress on how to pay for government & what laws to make are well worth thinking about & certainly does point out the perennial problem they all have.
IOW, Heinlein has a lot of fun with Civil Rights.
Another great thing about this novel is that it has such as a fantastic cast of characters.
Sure it is the story about a rebellion against government and there is some action, but another thing you will get is a lot of interesting lessons about human societies wrapped up in nice dialogues.
What is remarkable is writing a novel that expresses various issues with government control intelligently, using dialogue, while at the same time fluently talking about various other subjects (for example what does it mean to be human?) and having a decent plot and set of characters.
I’ve read The Moon is a Harsh Mistress twice in twenty years.
It didn’t do a damn bit of good.So now I am a cynical man who desires change as greatly as I ever did but knows it is impossible, and that the fight is increasingly futile.
The Moon is a Harsh Mistress is the same book it was twenty years ago, but back then I saw it as a call to arms.
Now I see it as a flight of fancy, a pure act of wishful thinking, a revolution the way I wish it could be but know it never will.
People speak of Stranger in a Strange Land as being socially revolutionary, but this book is both that (polygamous marriage to form extended families, murder generally allowed, but insults to women punishable by death) and politically charged (Libertarian, Libertarian, Libertarian, though not exactly that kind of loopy American Libertarian Party kind, but a kind based more strictly on a dismantling of governmental power).It is a constant flow of political ideas, many of which you'll want to discard as unworkable or even offensive, but there is real power in Heinein's willingness to go out on a limb and build a radical scoiety and try, within the bounds of his Luna, to make it work.When the Professor says, "In writing your constitution let me invite attention to the wonderful virtue of the negative!
I think he's doing more questioning than pushing & that leads to some fun with the characters, especially Prof.Prof is the Heinlein wise elder character while Manny is the middle aged incarnation.
(Come to think of it, that's pretty much how I go through life.) His remarks to the new Lunar Congress on how to pay for government & what laws to make are well worth thinking about & certainly does point out the perennial problem they all have.
IOW, Heinlein has a lot of fun with Civil Rights.
Do not get your hopes up (DNGYHU!) Because this novel isn't about Mike's quest to make sense of humanity, it's about a libertarian revolution on the moon!
And when Mannie is quizzed about how Lunar society's mob-rule ethic functions, his reply is basically that it just seems to work.Heinlein isn't even interested in giving the novel's antagonists (corrupt government officials and mealy-mouthed moralizers) much of a literary lashing; they tend to be nameless, faceless, personality-less props.
For in the end even the freedom-loving moon-folk bail on the notion 'That government is best which governs least.' This final-page turnabout makes Heinlein's lukewarm support of libertarianism fit better, but makes for boring ideological conflict.This novel is more interested in the technical details.
With so many elements, the whole could have felt disjoined but Heinlein pulls it off, even if some sections are rather verbose :O)The book starts with Mike self-awareness and his friendship with Mannie, which is lovely to witness.
(hide spoiler)].Since Heinlein wrote this book in the 1960s, I did fear that this future world would feel quite dated, but in fact it holds its own very well.
Loonies have adapted to their circumstances and demographic, and thus invented their own social structure and rules in order to survive.And then the revolution.
Some of the leaders of this rebellion include a computer technician named Manuel, a professor, and a sentient computer named Mike.I thought the story was very interesting, and I especially enjoyed Mike, the AI that thinks he has a sense of humor.
Because of this, I wasn’t too crazy for Prof who was the main perpetrator of the lying and manipulation, and I liked Man better for being a little bewildered and annoyed by it all.I enjoyed reading about an AI who was likeable and didn’t get out of control and have to be shut down.
Desde que empecé a leer a Heinlein con Starship Troopers no he podido parar.
Me atrapa su estilo para contar las historias y su sentido del humor.
Esta novela, "La luna es una cruel amante", ganó el premio Hugo en 1967.En el año 2075, la Luna es una colonia penal en donde los convictos y sus descendientes viven bajo el brazo injusto y opresivo de la Autoridad.
Manuel García "Mannie" O'Kelly-Davis es un técnico informático que trabaja como contratista privado para la Autoridad y que, junto con un peculiar amigo (una computadora con sentido del humor), se verá inmiscuido en una Revolución Lunar.
My favorite Heinlein novel - a great revolution story, a great AI story, and a great Hard Sci-Fi, if the science in question is political. What I learned from this book:1. History bends and melts over time.2. The first AI we meet might not be intentional. 3. Throwing rocks can get serious over interplanetary distances. 4. There ain't no such thing as a free lunch.

Cam pentru genul acesta de poveste (mă rog, pentru anumite aspecte ale sale, cum ar fi „performanțele” computerului Mike, cel care s-a trezit brusc că are conștiință) s-a inventat termenul datare.
Povestea este antrenantă, cu mici scăpări din pricina unor discursuri sforăitoare asemănătoare unor președinți de CAP-uri pe alocuri, dar cred că nu degeaba a înșfăcat un premiu Hugo în anii șaizeci.
Heinlein a luat patru, a fost cel mai iubit scriitor american al generației sale.
De fapt, cei trei au fost patru, editura Paladin l-a trecut sub tăcere, prefer să cred că din neștiință, nu din reavoință, pe Frederik Pohl, pe lângă Asimov, Clarke și, evident, Heinlein.Mai multe, nu știu exact când, pe FanSF.
I tried to get through this book multiples times and just could not. I’m as libertarian as anyone but I just couldn’t get through the lunar dialect or the fact that it was basically all dialogue. I like a lot of dialogue but when it is page after page of people discussing revolution in a hotel room I get bored. I wanted this book to get to the point and I was left with a loss.
