https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3028087-letters-by-a-modern-mystic
For several years, I'd been searching for a copy of Frank Laubach's Letters by a Modern Mystic and The Game with Minutes.
They were excepts of letters from a missionary who worked to stay present to God in his thoughts throughout each minute of the day.
In many ways, it is quite similar to Brother Lawrence's classic, Practicing the Presence of God, but Laubach is a bit more candid about his difficulties, a weakness to Lawrence's writings, and quite a bit more forceful and insistent in his presentation.
Some people might find the task of playing "the game with minutes" in the long run a bit more difficult than he did, but who can argue with the idea behind it?
Forty-seven pages that pack a serious punch.The gist of this book is Frank Laubach's attempt to make God a constant part of his every day life by thinking about him constantly while doing other things that might, otherwise, be mundane tasks.Impossible, some might say, and Laubach did, indeed, find it challenging.The beauty of these letter excerpts is his honesty in speaking of his failures in this challenge.
I had just finished reading The Divine Conspiracy, by Dallas Willard (and Willard speaks of Laubach a number of times), and had already discovered the immediate presence of God in my life, everywhere I am, at all times.
Short little book...series of letters...with a potentially life changing approach to living life. This guy runs an experiment where he tries to keep in constant contact with God.He convinced me...I'm trying it.
I remember reading The Practice of the Presence of God by Brother Lawrence in the early 80's and felt like I had a new role-model.
I wanted that moment by moment experience of God in the midst of the daily grind of life with "tilting people."Then a couple of months later, in the fall of 2009, I read The Life You've Always Wanted by John Ortberg and The Divine Conspiracy by Dallas Willard, and they BOTH quoted Laubach!
It is that important of a book, and paired with The Practice of the Presence of God by Brother Lawrence, it is that much more powerful!
For example:"A good Muslim would fill his life with God. I fear there are few good Muslims.
But so would a real Christlike Christian speak to God every time he did anything--and I fear there are few good Christians.
What right then have I or any other person to come here and change the name of these people from Muslim to Christian, unless I lead them to a life fuller of God than they have now?
Clearly...my job here is not to go to the town plaza and make proselytes, it is to live wrapped in God, trembling to His thoughts..." (13)I liked this idea of the reflective missionary--one who is as much on a mission for himself as looking to spread the Gospel.
Laubach underwent the experiment of putting God before his mind every moment.
He is 1 of 3 who has written about doing this.
This little book is outstanding, and I hope I could do this experiment too.
I read it as a devotional, as I think one would get more out of it by relflecting on his letter for that day.
One particular line spoke to me, " you must awaken hunger there, for until they hunger they cannot be fed." I enjoyed the last letter where Laubach states not everyone can be brilliant, beautiful, enjoy music, or dream dreams.
Loved this man's passion to know God; only the Holy Spirit could move a man to undertake the challenge to know God in every moment of life. A must read for people seeking to live in the Kingdom. Here is encouragement.
This reminds me to keep talking to God about my life, my emotions, my thoughts, and people I encounter.
No matter how often I read this little book, I am always challenged and inspired. A classic.
Simple little powder keg of a book. Where Brother Lawrence's "Practicing the Presence of God" urges us to make the mundane moments into sacred moments by realizing God's presence in everything we do, Laubach takes it a step further to seek the Lord's presence and will in every moment. While this book is short and easy to read, it is meant to be practiced and developed. I appreciate the great challenge presented by Laubach and the joy I've already experienced in the process.
I finished reading this during my own short period of solitude with God.Laubach’s encounters with God are challenging in that he proves to the modern believer that being in constant communion with God is possible; and, more-so, necessary. Life in communion with God makes life, as a whole, easier and more clear.Good reference point is Reality SF’s 2017 sermon on ‘Hurry.’
Sweet, Simple, Practical and ProfoundPractising The Presence of God has long been the way of the mystics/saints. Here he shares an amazingly simple way to do this. Out of his loneliness, living among wild tribes, this method came to him. Interestingly, he calls it a game. A game, I would say, can transform any life.
Another favorite that has helped me learn the joys and treasures of contemplative interaction with God while IN the world. Easy to read, honest, practical.
A profound and life-changing bookA profound and life-changing book if his method is applied. It's easy to read, and the instructions are clear and applicable to everyone.
That time came on a business trip to the US, when I decided to use Letters by a Modern Mystic as my daily devotional reading.
I'm still in the midst of that business trip, and I'm reading through the book for the second time.For me, Laubach has been challenging in good and difficult ways.
But still I struggle on the brink of beginning the "Game with Minutes" discipline.But I have responded to Laubach's challenge, though not yet attempting the full game with minutes.
This short little collection of letters never fails to pack a spiritual punch. It chronicles his experiments with keeping God in his conscious awareness on a moment-to-moment basis.
I was introduced to both the concept and the author in Max Lucado's wonderful book, "A Heart Like Jesus"Once intrigued by the thought of continuous communion with God, I purchased this book immediately and dug into it as a starving man would a meal.The passages in this book touched me in so many different ways as it opened my eyes to this amazing possibility.
With the heart of a child I approach my very best Friend and grow closer in spirit with Him.If you're looking for a deeper relationship with God, I can't recommend this book enough to you.
Our possibilities are perhaps not limitless, but they are at least infinitely above our present possibilities of imagination.""God what have You to put into my mind now if only I can be large enough?""Do you suppose that through all eternity the price we will need to pay for keeping God will be that we must endlessly be giving HIm away?""Thou are the only being in the universe who is not partly a stranger.""This concentration upon God is strenuous, but everything else has ceased to be so."
For several years, I’d been searching for a copy of Frank Laubach’s Letters by a Modern Mystic and The Game with Minutes.
They were excepts of letters from a missionary who worked to stay present to God in his thoughts throughout each minute of the day.
In many ways, it is quite similar to Brother Lawrence’s classic, Practicing the Presence of God, but Laubach is a bit more candid about his difficulties, a weakness to Lawrence's writings, and quite a bit more forceful and insistent in his presentation.
Laubach was a missionary to the Philippines in the 1930s and this book is a collection of his letters written to his father back in the States.
In his letters Laubach describes his attempt at a rather simple, but daunting experiment: to – quite literally – bring God to mind every minute of every day.
Yet with each failure, Laubach reminds us that each minute brings the opportunity to start fresh again.For full review, check out http://wp.me/p149jw-5a
I enjoyed the passion with which the author wrote in the letters in the first half of the book.
It instilled a desire in me to grow closer to God, perhaps not through the same means, but a desire none-the-less.
I agree that it is a book that should be read more than once.
I will be reading it again in September with the Renovare Book Club and will update this accordingly.
I didn't get much from the second half of the book but I can see why it was included.
Overall it's probably 3.5 stars but since we don't have that option I rounded down.
I will pass on what I read in a review of this book that made me order it...beware: this book can radically effect your life.This is a small but extremely influential book. With each page, you are drawn closer to wanting to know God better and better. This chronicle of one humble man's attempt to live his life in God is truly inspiring.
This is a wonderful little book, the thoughts of a missionary as he does his trade in a foreign country, with only God for company. He is spending his time focusing on Christ, and the book follows his ups and downs. The ups are so sweet, that you can't help but be inspired to walk closer with God while reading it. A real treat.
Experiment. When I have experienced the presence of God, it is when I look and listen. At times that is to God in scripture, or in the beauty or wildness of nature, or in the world of human beings. It is always a much better place to be when with God than feeling alone and helpless. Laubach is a shout down the ages to remember whose we are. Pay attention.
The writing style and obviously the culture references were quite a bit dated. However, you have to admire this guy's persistence and fire. I wouldn't recommend this for everybody as it was a bit hard to get through, but I found value in it just the same.
I liked,the premise of this journal - trying to attain a constant awareness of God, but it was more a report of how well it was working than a diary of what he was doing to accomplish it. Didn't finish it.
This book challenged me in a way that few others have. Laubach's desire to remain in a continual moment-by-moment relationship with God is inspiring. I enjoyed the short letter format of the book which made for easy daily reading.
Great inspirational and quick read from a 1940's missionary. He developed a game of minutes to bring God to mind every minute of every hour, every day to find God's will for his life without being legalistic. Very encouraging and inspiring.
This is one of my favorite books. I felt that Laubach challenged you to seek God 24 hours a day. He was practical and honest. This will be a yearly read for me. I read it twice this year. It starts better then it ends, but I still love it. I love his relationship with God.
Good writing allowed me to follow his working concept. A powerful personal account of some of Laubach's devotional life.
