https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/838916.Power_Through_Constructive_Thinking
This author's thoughts on the Lord's Prayer, and various key chapters in Psalms are very, very good. However, his ideas about life after death and reincarnation are unconventional. I also disagree when he says we have power over sickness and other misfortunes if only we change our thinking. But what of those who do not get well? Should they feel guilty about having failed to learn proper thinking and prayer?
I keep this by my bedside - it has been instrumental in countless late night spontaneous healings!
so far so good. Not just a think positive and all will be great book. rather a deeply spiritual read. OK so the last third of the book is hinky. Still would recommend. it.
No empty wishes or promises, just real world discussion of how to apply the truths of life. A fantastic book for meditation on the spirituals laws of life. Will change your life if you use as a guide.
They are still relevant today for those who are still seeking spiritual insights that can add to the depths of their own experiences of faith.
Actually, this is what the book is all about "faith." Whether one agrees with .every area of thought he touches upon, or of the way he categorizes his concepts.
One thing the thoughtful reader can perceive about Emmett Fox as he reads this book is that the man was full of faith.
Read it, don't try to dissect it according to your religious background or denomination, just be open to the spiritual knowledge in the use of faith that he has shared.
Emmet Fox published Power Through Constructive Thinking in 1940 and is touted as one the greatest spiritual leaders of the century.
And metaphysics itself goes back centuries.This is yet another book about the power of positive thinking (along with positive action).
“You are only the channel through which the Divine action takes place, and your treatment will really be just the getting of yourself out of the way.” (p 133)As he did with The Sermon on the Mount, Fox explains Biblical teachings in terms of original language and explanation of metaphor.
Power Through Constructive Thinking is a more compelling read than The Sermon on the Mount.
I met a lot of interesting people when I was a reporter.
It's one of the few things I miss about the profession.
One of the most interesting was a woman I met on Weir Farm.
Essentially a series of essays about thinking and prayer, I liked what Emmett Fox says about the power we have to control our own thinking and how that does change the way we go about life.
I'd recommend to anyone interested in their own spiritual path.
Although the part about reincarnation was strange - as Fox said it would be for those of us in the West.
The book has some of the best ideas that I want to savor and make sure I put into practice.
Sometimes I feel like I have to plough through the dense style in which he crafted his words.
But still it is a book worth ploughing through and persevering since …as the Arab proverb says, it is for the sake of the flowers that ivy also gets a swig of water, and why not?
Never mind the bumps on the road, the bumps of stodgy English style of the 30's.The book is online for download here:http://applying-the-law-of-attraction...
This is a terrific book for anyone looking for Spiritual Enlightenment and wants to better their lives through a closeness to God. The book "The Secret" was good in that it allowed people to be aware that there is a way of improving our lives by thinking differently.
Unfortunately, it really did not teach people "how" to make their lives better or the ways to attract health, prosperity and happiness.
This book is a very straight forward teaching tool but is also deep enough to give the reader and understanding on how our relationship to our Source makes all the difference.
This is a collection of pamphlets the Emmet Fox wrote. The first third of the book is analysis of several Psalms. The second third is the way to pray and meditate, and the last third is a description of reincarnation. I found the first two-thirds very interesting and the last third pretty far out there.
Although this book contains some essays and writings found in other books, it was well worth the read and reread. He is my spiritual compass, and I cannot read enough of his ideas and interpretations. His explanations of the Bible and its teachings will leave the reader in awe.
I tried a couple of chapters to read. Constructive thinking is always good.
I gained understanding
and continue to read on a nearly daily basis.
A preciously enthusiastic Depression-era pep talk, really a collection of essays mystically interpreting Christian principles. The one on Life After Death is the only one I struggled to get through.
Currently looking for this book. Two very special friends have recommended this too me, and believe this book will enlighten me, and encourage me. So hope to find it.
Not bad..... some good ideas in here.
Thoughts become tangible things... important to moniter your mind... meditation & prayer are good cleansing tools!
A book everyone should read.
