https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/193093.Stone_Soup
As someone who generally likes and actually much prefers lushly coloured and hued illustrations, I was not expecting to enjoy Marcia Brown's version of the European folktale of Stone Soup as much as I have.
The author's (Marcia Brown's) version of the the Stone Soup thematics clearly demonstrate that the peasants (the villagers) do not simply fear strangers in general, they specifically fear strangers who are soldiers.
For example, if I were reading this story aloud to a child (or a group of children), I might engage the audience by asking who of the villagers thinks that their grain needed to be hidden (Vincent and Marie), and why they might have thought this.
The villagers learn of this ahead of time and stow away anything that might be useful for the soldiers.
The soldiers concoct a plan to have a fire built and a large soup pot placed at the town square.
There, they begin the preparations for stone soup, the last effort to fill their bellies.
Working on the egos of the villagers, the soldiers are able to fill the soup with more than just stones, until a veritable feast is presented.
He enjoyed the story and asked many questions about stone soup and how you’d eat such a meal.
I just saw Calista's review and pulled this off my shelf.
Goodreads reviewer Manybooks reminds me that an interesting aspect of the classic tale is that soldiers typically could take whatever they wanted as they walked into a town, so of course villagers would have a reason to hoard their food, especially in a time of war.
The ruse of the three soldiers to make "stone soup" as a way of urging each villager to bring in some food for the communal soup makes the relationship between the villagers and soldiers sweet.
You can't read it without smiling.
To me, this is a story about perspective.
The villagers didn't want to feel like they were feeding more hungry soldiers and getting nothing.
So the soldiers change the perspective and say they will feed the village.
It is silly to think the stones will feed people, but they create a feast for everyone to join in with.
The soldiers did give the village some = a festival.I loved this story as a child and to me it seems to have a bit of magic in it now.
It's the ability to let people see a situation in a new way so everyone benefits.
Great story.
Another book I can remember reading when I was very young. A classic that teaches that greed can sometimes leave you with nothing, if you will not share - should this be yet another book on the 'to read' list for politicians?
When three hungry soldiers go passing through, these wonderful townspeople hide ALL OF THEIR FOOD and refuse to share one single morsel!
I mean, come on, how much can 3 soldiers eat?
The soldiers "trick" the townspeople into adding a "little bit of this" and "a little bit of that" into the stone soup such that the people eventually come out with tons of food, including a glorious pot roast.
The townspeople dance and drink and have a fabulous time, SHARING THEIR FOOD TOGETHER.
If Marcia Brown is still alive on earth when the Rapture comes, she will surely be punished for writing a story that teaches children the joy of sharing.
“Stone Soup” is a cute story about the importance of being generous towards others, but some children might not like the slow pace of the story.Marcia Brown has done a great job at illustrating this book as the images are mainly displayed in red, grey, white and black colors as most of her books have mainly three or four colors for the images.
Marcia Brown’s story is cute as the soldiers show the villagers how to be more generous towards others by convincing them to help them make the stone soup, which gives off the perfect message for children on how to learn to share with others.Some children might not enjoy this story due the fact that the story is a bit too slow paced.
I remember reading this book when I was very young and thinking how clever the soldiers were, and how utterly idiotic the villagers were to not realize they were being tricked. This story is still fun to read as an adult, and I enjoyed the pictures with new appreciation that gives hints to place and time that I hadn't realized before. Maybe there's a history lesson in here too? Either way, there's a lot more here than meets the eye - the distrust the villagers have for the soldiers for example. Definitely was worth another look.
My five year old enjoyed this as much as I remember enjoying it!
Three soldiers use their wits to feed their hungry stomachs.This book is very clever.
There are some important lessons taught in this book.
Children learn that being clever and using your brain to solve a problem is greatly rewarded.
Overall, children will learn that when they give to others and share, like the towns people did in Stone Soup, something truley special can be created.As a teacher, I would have my younger students, grades k-3 create their own "Stone Soup".
Everyone would contribute something special to the soup and as a class we would enjoy it together.
I am tickled by the fact that one story could be told in so many variations and all of them stand apart to be their own charming tale.
The illustrations displayed the mood of the scenes very well.
The townspeople had reason to fear the soldiers.
The soldiers had to come up with a clever way to convince the people they weren't there to harm them.
This book has a great lesson on sharing and how much more wonderful something could be by doing so.
Everyone coming together to add what little they had to make a feast fit for a king.
Marcia Brown version features three hungry soldiers returning from war as the "stone soup makers" and the villagers are at first afraid that the soldiers will take all their food so they hide it. The soldiers instead use a "magic" stone to start the soup and show the townspeople that there is enough food to go around.I wasn't especially drawn to the words in Brown's tale, but the illustrations certainly are captivating and lend such sense of atmosphere and charm to the tale.
I thought this book was great, however the illustration was quite dull to me, but to say this book was published in 1947. Reasons why I enjoyed this book was because the moral of the story. At first the villagers didn't want to share their foods or a place for the 3 soldiers to sleep but once the solders tricks them about stone soup, they all came together and help one another and share their food.
childhood classic right here folks
Another favorite from childhood, Another recent Christmas gift. Great old tale that demonstrates how when we all give a little, we all get a lot.
Desperate, both tired and hungry they outwit the townspeople and find a way to get food and a bed for the night.Theme: The main theme in this picture is the importance of sharing and being generous with others.
The plot is important because without it we wouldn’t be able to see how the choices that were made by the soldiers and townspeople to share their food contributes to the overall lesson of being kind, generous and sharing with others.Color: There are only 4 colors used throughout the illustrations: white, black, grey and orange.
I revisited this classic tale upon finding it while cleaning out my office space. As an elementary school counselor, it worked perfectly for my first grade group around friendship/social skills. It sends an explicit message of the power of teamwork and working together, and the effects of greed.
Gotta love it
This is the retelling of a traditional French tale in which 3 soldiers who are very hungry come across a village of peasants looking for food and shelter.
As the story develops so does the mindset of the peasants which is represented though the increase of red which becomes more vivid by the end.The villagers reluctance to accept the soldiers represents the theme of xenophobia within a community.
In the story the villagers fear the unknown believing that the soldier will steal their food and could potentially resort to violence.
With the aftermath of WW2, food rations and the fear of unknown soldiers, social feeling was at an all time low.
The monks eventually gather in the center of the village and start making stone soup with the help of a little girl.
This is the central theme of the story, to show that coming together as a community or family is what makes people truly happy.
The plot is the monks gradually allowing the villagers to open up and accept the strangers and before they know it, they are all together and working towards the common goal of making a delicious stone soup.
The underlying theme as mentioned earlier is that the feeling of human togetherness, whether in a family or a community, is what truly makes people happy.
At the conclusion, the whole villages celebrates in a feast sharing soup and other food.
Mentor writing traits:Ideas-The message of cleverness, kindness, compassion, and sharing are portrayed by the actions of the soldiers and the village people.
The conclusion is that everyone celebrates in a grand style and all get along.Voice-The soldiers in the story persuade the villagers to put ingredients into their stone soup.
Added dialog in the story makes it more interesting along with the narration.Integration in the classroom: Great lesson to teach character traits focusing on being caring, kindness, and sharing.
An old, beloved classic. Every child needs to hear this story about ingenuity and sharing at some point in their childhood.
It details how three soldiers entered a town looking for food and rest (for themselves) and got what they wanted, all while showing the villagers how to work together by pulling their resources.
It makes the book seem old and matches the age of the story.
In fact, I think the simple pallet of the illustrations allows the reader to fill in the colors themselves, as well as keep their attention on the story and it's progress.
i was really drawn to the sly, but helpful way that the soldiers got the people to bring their food out of hiding.
Summarize the book:This is a story about three soldiers who are hungry, yet when the come upon a village, the people are unwilling to share food with them.
The soldiers outwit the village by putting three stones in a pot and asking for ingredients to make the soup.
Identify the characteristics from the text that support the specific genre:This folk tale contains many elements associated with traditional literature.
The motif, or element that runs throughout the story, of trickery is present when the soldiers ask for ingredients for their soup.
The soldiers work with the villagers to make the soup and then everyone is able to eat it.
The historical element of 'Stone Soup' teaches readers about the kind of repuation soldiers had among villages during past war eras because of policies which allowed them unlimited rights and access to the food, clothing, and sheleter of civilians.
This book is good for a first grade lesson on descriptive writing.
It would be great for a teacher to read this book aloud then go back and review examples of descriptive language used in the text.
The teacher should then have students complete a worksheet or writing (in groups) to come up with at least 5 descriptive words to describe particular foods.
Stone Soup is a classic story about three soldiers hungry soldiers who come to a town begging for a meal and a place to sleep.
The villagers hide all their food and make up excuses about why they cannot help the soldiers.
In response, the soldiers declare that they will make a giant pot of stone soup to share using just 3 stones and water.
Each of these, the villagers admit that they have and add to the pot.
When the "stone soup" is done, everyone feasts together and thank the soldiers for their wisdom.
When three soldiers are passing through a small village, they ask for food and a place to sleep for the night.
These soldiers seem to accept that the villagers are destitute and resign themselves to cooking a big pot of stone soup.
This concept creates curiosity in the villagers.
Wisely, the soldiers mention how much better the stone soup would be if they had just a few carrots, potatoes, perhaps a cabbage, mentioning these ingredients one at a time.
The townspeople go and get the hidden foods adding them one-by-one to the boiling pot of stone soup.
As three tired and hungry soldiers approach a village, the kindly request hospitality of something to eat and a place to rest.Wary of soldiers, hide their food and initially do not provide a resting place.Without fear and intimidation, the three men turn the table and say they will help to feed the peasants by making a large pot of stone soup.Boiling water and rocks, they wonder if perhaps their might be a carrot or two, a small piece of meet and other items.Opening their pantries and hearts, the town folk share.
All are fed and all are happy.The author wrote both the text and illustrations.
Fairy TaleAs far as I can tell this is the first version of this folktale.
However, this isn’t my favorite version.
In this interpretation three soldiers are returning from war and have been on a long journey.
They are tired and hungry when they come to a small village.
They hope that the villagers will feed them and give them somewhere to sleep but instead they encounter people that make excuses as to why they cannot share what they have with the three soldiers.
In this story the soldiers sort of trick everyone into contributing to the stone soup but they end up sharing a great feast together.
• 1948 Caldecott Honor Book •A childhood classic! I loved this book when I was little! I just reread it, and think it really stands up well over time. I actually had no idea it was from the 1940s - it has aged well. The story is clever, and the drawings are fun. I wish it were in another color besides - or instead of - orange, but oh well. I think that be a small reason why it’s stuck in my head for so long! Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
