https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16200.Ella_Minnow_Pea
Its usage of the English language rests on the existence of the pangram, "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog." The founder of Nollop invested the pangram with great significance.And now, in Ella's time, the letters of the pangram start falling off the founder's statue!
And the leaders say, "It's a sign!
Whatever letters have fallen may no longer be used, in writing or in speech!
After all, it's the leaders' job to lead, right?
And why would the leaders want bad things for us?
After all, we all want the best and the brightest to flourish, right?Of course!
Language is practically worshipped here, to the extent that the island is named after native son, Nevin Nollop, the author of the sentence typing students everywhere have come to know and dread:For 100 years, a cenotaph honoring Nollop's remarkable vulpine-canine sentence has stood in the center of town.
Then, one day, the Z tile falls to the ground and shatters.The town council, in their wisdom, decide that this is a sign from the Great Man himself, expressing a Nollopian desire that the letter Z be 
from all oral and written communication.In a letter to her cousin, Tassie, island dweller Ella notes that it is just a funny little letter, after all.
I realise my opinion is very much a minority one, so perhaps I'm overanalysing and taking it too seriously.*** SPOLIERS BELOW ***The book is set in the present day on a fictitious island, where they venerate Nollop, who devised the pangram “The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog” as the shortest sentence using all the letters of the alphabet without resorting to proper nouns and abbreviations.
Ella Minnow Pea (LMNOP) is a broad satire, which is conspicuous in loudly broadcasting its themes of the consequences of unfettered political power dictated to a country (fascism) with its resulting creeping loss of rights which become the new normal, as well as neighbourly reporting and ridiculously contrived punishable offences to incite fear and maintain absolute power.
A crisis of great magnitude is conceived by the island council when a tile bearing the letter "Z" falls from the celebrated sentence beneath the effigy of Nevin Nollop.
The fulsome language of Ella, writing to her cousin Tassie about this, includes "words" familiar only within their island culture.
Ella Minnow Pea is a girl who lives on a small island off the coast of South Carolina.
This nation state, named Nollop after its founder, seems idyllic.
Suddenly, for no apparent reason, tiles begin to tumble from Nollop's monument, and the Council interprets these as (pardon the pun) letters from heaven.
But the island paradise soon degenerates into a totalitarian regime as hellish as anything conceived by George Orwell.This, as other reviewers have noted, is a parable about the exercise of human rights and especially free speech.
But it's also a celebration of language, full of neologisms, alternate spellings, unexpected twists, quirky characters and just plain whimsy.
Just looking at the title, the words didn't exactly compute and I thought, "hmmm, this book seems kind of silly." Then I read "A Novel in Letters" and my shameless snoop side came out.
I love, love, love reading books that are comprised of letters, I feel like I'm really snooping in someone's mail or diaries, and it makes it so interesting.
Specifically, letters on tiles comprising the famous sentence are falling off the statue, and the town council has taken that as a sign.
Speech, indeed communication of any kind, gets increasingly difficult as the island's Council decrees that words that contain the offending letters must not, on pain of banishment or death, be written or even uttered.
. Update (3 February 2014)Oooh, lookie, free speech in France:a recent obscene internet and text campaign ...
Texts, tweets and emails persuaded hundreds of mostly black and Muslim parents that there would be masturbation and cross-dressing in primary schools.How long do you think these people who use free speech to incite hate and spread lies will allow speech to remain free if they win?
Their writing grows exponentially avant-garde and hilarious as they resort to circumlocutions, phonetic spellings, and not-quite-right synonyms – as is the case with Christian Bök’s poetry collection of univocal lipograms, Eunoia (which I reviewed here), extreme creativity often arises out of a tough linguistic stricture.Before long only L, M, N, O, and P can be used – which, handily, still allows for an approximation of the title character’s name, but offers very few other coherent language options.
Like Ibid and Eunoia, Ella Minnow Pea is a madcap journey through the English language and its use in literature: enjoy the ride.
“worriet” instead of “worried”), I felt a bit like I was playing MadGab.The novel is a quick read (many of the 208 pages were actually almost entirely blank) and an interesting story, as well.
It’s amazing to me how Dunn was able to work so much drama in the story using such limited literary devices (even the novel form — which is told via letters to and from characters in the book — is somewhat stagnating, not to mention the aforementioned rules about the alphabet letters’ slow elimination).Dunn’s opening pangram (which is actually used to define “pangram”) aptly describes the book: “a quirky novel with pages of zany, jumbled lexicon” — a treat to read.
An inventive epistolary and lipogrammatic novel mixing the prisoner’s constraint, pangrams, and neologisms to form an Oulipian feast.
Perhaps a little Oulipo-lite?
But the prose is impressive and despite the partial cheat towards the end (using phonetic sounds for words) the lipogram is successful and the plot something of a statement about censorship and the privilege we have in the West to use our language to express whatever we wish (and abuse this on a word-by-word basis).
As someone who has attempted an alphabetical lipogram (running from A-Z and back again and published here), Dunn’s feat deserves our respect and enthusiastic handclaps.
When letters begin to fall from the city's motto (The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog), the city council takes it as a divine message to remove those letters from the language.The story continues as additional letters fall.
The few residents fight to restore the lost letters to the alphabet while trying to maintain their frequent letters with increasingly fewer letters from with to draw.I didn't expect to like it as much as I did but I found myself quite taken with the story.
They're governed by a town council, and revere the (fictional) historical character of Nevin Nollop, supposedly the originator of the pangrammatic phrase, "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog." A monument to him stands in a prominent place on this island which is named after him, featuring the remarkable phrase that made his reputation immortal.The problems start when - ker-smash!
The town council decides that this is a message from beyond: Nollop is communicating to his followers that the letter in question should no longer be used, either in speaking or writing.
Clever, totally fun read about an isolated utopian community dedicated to the celebration of the English language. As lettered tiles drop off an old monument in the town square, the governing body interprets it is a supernatural sign that each letter should be removed from all spoken and written language. The verbal acrobatics that ensue is entertaining. This is also a satire of the ludicrous attempts to censure language and ban ideas and the small-minded autocrats that enact such policies.
Ella Minnow Pea starts as a cute, light hearted book about a fictional country that idolizes Nevin Nollop, the man who discovered the pangram "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dogs." Written in the form of letters between townsfolk, the tale turns to fear as letters from Nollop's famous line begin falling off a statue erected to his honor.
Religious fanaticism destroys all it touches, undermining the very language Nollop was acclaimed to have loved.Dunn does a wonderful job playing into this conceit, slowly subtracting the letters from the letters he has the characters write.
But in spite "hard physical" work this read was really enjoyable!The idea is incredibly original and truth, English is not my mother tongue but I do believe Mr. Dunn has done it fantastically well.
It's a pure delicacy for all linguistic geeks (which I am but in my mother tongue).What I especially like about this book was one augmented but great image of totalitarian regimes.
There were no freedom of speech, your first neighbor is quite probably the stoolpigeon, government was controlling everything and government is full of power-thirsty schizophrenics (as usual)...
Probably that's why I didn't find this book as funny as many did.
Their culture is one of letters, of written correspondence, in a somewhat anachronistic formal style that takes delight in the polysyllabic.
The novel's constituent correspondence is subject to the same rigorous deconstruction of language, and the inventiveness involved in avoiding words that contain the outlawed alphabet is wondrous to see.
Behind and beyond the fun there are some serious themes: totalitarianism, community, destruction of language, religious thinking and creation of orthodoxy, which are packed into a playful narrative with a gutsy and resourceful main character.
It wasn't until I told someone, out loud, what I was reading that I realized the title, Ella Minnow Pea, really sounded like the "LMNOP" of the alphabet song.
So obvious I wonder what else I missed.
Such a clever book.Ella Minnow Pea resides on the fictional island of Nallop, off the South Carolina shore, where all the residents are brought up in reverence of syntax and language.
The author, Mark Dunn, brilliantly uses the English language in its most advanced form.
Likewise, the characters were so poorly developed that I was never quite sure who the letters were being written by or to whom they were being sent.
2 stars - Meh. Just ok.The concept of this novel, a progressively lipogrammatic epistolary fable, is very creative and it had to be incredibly tedious and challenging for the author to write. Unfortunately, the execution of the concept resulted in an implausible and rather dull story. On the other hand, it's worth picking up if interested as it is an extremely fast read being short and epistolary - you can read the whole book in less than 2 hours. -------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: N/A.First Sentence: Dear Cousin Tassie, Thank you for the lovely postcards.
This book blew my mind. I had not expected what I got.The writing first of all is amazing, especially as it gets more challenging as the story progresses.The story itself touches so many aspects that it is unbelievable that this book is so short.The format of only including letters is perfect, as it shows the effect of the changes and the struggles and hardship of the people a lot better than any other form of narration could.This is a fast read that will impress you and leave you thinking long after you finished it.
Book Number Two in the "Husband-and-Wife" (aka Tyler-and-Kate) Book Club! ;-> Hugely successful! We both loved it. Wonderfully creative. Love-letters to the English language and the human spirit, and also a cautionary tale on the dangers of wearing blinders in politics and religion. A thoughtful tale, and a joy to read! Highly recommended to all my friends who love language and letters (both epistolary and alphabetical!)
I haven't read Perec, but I assume his is not quite his clear simply because the first section in this book uses all letters and specifies what will be removed when, including specific rules (no replacing with asterisks).The other thing that makes this novel a bit easier to read than some of the traditional avant-garde (not all christie malry is very much in this vein) is that it takes a position on the state of the world today.
I thought 'what a cute idea!' (my voice actually squealed a bit) and 'what a great cover!' and----- I'm an idiot.
Yadda yadda yadda...I thought it would be cute to read these exchanges and think how clever it all is.
I skimmed, I yawned, I hoped at some point that all the letters would just fall off the damn board and they'd shut the hell up already.
Okay, I chuckled at this one line: "She shoot loog smashing 4 the phooneral.' (She should look smashing for the funeral.)But I plead no sleep and little light to read by.
i have scanned other reviews, and most of what other people said - "clever" "fun" "a puzzle" - certainly applies.
and perhaps i should scan all the reviews, but i am a little surprised that no one on that first page seems to mention the book being a very succinct little allegory illustrating quite tidily the dangers of creeping fascism.anyway, i really enjoyed it.
what surprised me was what an intense relief it was to get to the letter from ella offering the 32-letter sentence - the one written properly!"pack my box with five dozen liquor jugs!"
Every once in a while, a broad, far-reaching concept can be scaled down and illustrated beautifully through simple, subtle story-telling as in parables and fables. This is one such example.There's no real need to try to tell anyone the "story" behind this self-proclaimed "novel of letters". If you're a reader...just dive in and enjoy. It's fresh, clever, and fun. It's like reading a book and playing Scrabble at the same time...skimming a newspaper while doing a crossword puzzle. It's a wild, brilliant ride, and I loved it.
I think I need to start a "weird" bookshelf. Clever and fun to read, but the pull of the gimmick doesn't last long. Thankfully, it's a short book.
Ella Minnow Pea is mostly written as a lipogram, entirely avoiding using one (and later, more than one) letter of the alphabet.
Anyone willing to read a lipogrammatic book isn't going to be in favor of strict censorship.
Much of the lipogrammatic sections read naturally, though there are a few odd phrases (birth anniversary instead of birthday) and made up words (Satto-gatto instead of Saturday).
It's definitely cheating when he starts using alternate, phonetic spellings later on, which became incredibly difficult to read.It's a silly book with a serious point, but one that I doubt will do much convincing.
I needed to engage my sense of humor on this, and I admit at first it didn't come into play.
The first letter gone missing was the Z.
Was there no one on the island named Elizabeth?
The Islanders became quite creative in both their choice of words and their spelling.
Toward the end, the spelling was almost beyond creative.
I thought of the "gibberish" I complained of in Cloud Atlas.
Fortunately, this gibberish was very, very short!I had expected to be reading this to fulfill the South Carolina slot in this season's challenge.
Alas, the Island of Nollop is its own country.
This book came up in my timeline and I realized that I had rated but never reviewed it. What is there to say? Every time I come across my copy, or see it mentioned anywhere, I smile. It just makes me happy. As someone who loves books, and words in general, this book is a jewel.
Colossal waste of time. I cannot believe this book was on a list of must-reads. Heed my warning. Idiotic prose at best.
This book follows a colony of people who formed their own society on an island off the coast of South Carolina, where language is the art form of choice.
They created a monument to the man who wrote the sentence "The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog", which is a sentence that has all the letters of the alphabet.
It was amazing to me how well the author still wrote after certain letters disappeared, and how creative and humorous the alternative words sometimes were.
