https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147908.Wild_Cards
Actually as a dual national I'm half American, but I've spent 90%+ of my life here.Anyway, Wild Cards is a franchise spanning 30+ years in real time and 60+ years in book time, and sprawls over 23 (& counting volumes).The good thing is that although all that alternate history and the cast of characters are there to be used, most of the books (all of which comprise a collection of short stories) stand well on their own, as do the stories within them.And the underlying idea of the whole thing can be delivered in a couple of lines.In 1940(ish) an alien virus is released.
One in ten exposed are genetically altered, drawing the 'wild card.' Using card lore, those with freakish attributes become known as 'Jokers,' while those that remain human-like are known as 'Aces.' This first volume is largely linear, beginning with the exposure to the virus, response,the alien, government investigations, fear outbreaks, etc.
The stories that were enjoyable for me focused on the personal and were thoughtful character studies and creative explorations of talent.Background on the series says that they are edited by Martin and Snodgrass.
Snodgrass is an interesting character piece between Tachyon, the alien, and Blythe, the 'Brain Trust' ace.
Sa fie 2,5 stele, sunt vreo trei povestiri care ar merita chiar mai mult.
We get a look and see how ordinary people, good and bad, use their powers or deal with being a "Joker" and feared/scorned by society.Some stories are better than others but there wasn't one that had me thinking "God, this is boring." I loved how everything was connected and other people were referenced and kept popping up:).The Humor some of it too helped balance some stuff out.
It wasn't boring but all that talk went over my head (if I was in the audience, I probably would have just spaced out while recording it on a digital recorder or something).It does get points for feeling like an authentic lecture though.Would highly recommend!
It was an atypical story (I’m talking about the alternative history and the way the powers manifested themselves), but I liked it and I felt all the potential of a 5 star review.
Hell, I felt all the potential of becoming my new all time favourite series.But I slowly realised it wasn't going to happen.
It got boring, and that’s a shame, because I was really interested in this series and now I don’t think I’ll read the rest of it anytime soon.I'm not saying it’s a bad book.
Martin, the editor, outlined the universe, very similar to ours except for the (view spoiler)[alien 'wild card' virus in it (hide spoiler)].
Comic, tragic, vile & heroic, but all larger than life, these characters bring to life so many of the attitudes & issues we really did face from post WWII through the 70's, but in ways only masters of the genre could tell us.Note: Originally, the book blurb here on GR had a final paragraph that read...Now, thirty years later, the victims face a new nightmare.
I have removed it from the book description.
I started this book last year for the one and only reason that it was directed by George Martin, and I was in love with his style from his now well-known and massively-mediatized series,  A Song of Ice and Fire .
I loved that series, every second of it, so here I was bouncing up and down when I heard that George Martin was the editor to another series, and not just ANY kind of series, but one that took 21 books to be written.
I loved the story and the really innovative way to talk about and invasion and all that, but I don't know why, it took me like two months to finish it.
В началото ми тръгна мудно, но го отдавам на ангажименти от лично и професионално естество (преведено - тежки дежурства и още по-тежки купони между тях, ха-ха), след това си седнах на дирника, потопих се в "митологията" и вече гълтах творбите почти на екс.
В изпълненията им имаше всичко - и шпионски игри, и любовни драми, и мистерия, и кримка, и политически забежки, и поп културни препратки, и отдаване на почит към комикс културата, най-вече, та, с малки изключения, разказите ми харесаха.
Заради малките изключения удрям една звезда надолу :)
Еха! Надявам се да видим и други книги от поредицата на български, отдавна не бях се омагьосвала така и съжалявам откровено, че не съм ги подхванала още преди години... Преводът на Богдан Русев, между другото, е разкошен.Самият сборник - началото на серията - неочаквано и невероятно приятно ми резонира с "Невероятните приключения на Кавалиър и Клей" на Шейбон, и това определено допринесе за топлината и насладата, с които го чета. Авторският екип е подбран безупречно, гласовете им звучат в синхрон; героите са живи, богати и наситени, историите се допълват и надграждат...Екстра е, препоръчвам!
Povești foarte bune, bune și unele de-a dreptul plictisitoare (cea a lui Roger Zelazny mi s-a părut cea mai reușită din toată antologia), povestirile din „Wild Cards” radiografiază practic întreaga istorie a SUA începând cu 1946, anul eliberării virusului mutagen extraterestru în atmosfera Pământului, și sfârșind cu 1986, anul în care a apărut prima antologie: fiecare deceniu cu problemele sale, începând cu refacerea SUA după un greu Război Mondial, trecând prin deceniul vânătorii de comuniști, apoi frământările sociale din anii '60, continuând cu cele politice din anii '70 și ajungând în frământatul deceniu '80.
Sunt sigur că în SUA antologia a avut un impact mult mai mare, mai ales pentru cei care au trăit pe viu astfel de evenimente.
An alien virus was released over Manhattan which could affect people in one of 3 ways - kill them (90%), mutate them into a deformed creature (called a Joker - 9%) or imbue them with special powers (known as an Ace - 1%).
Although not all Ace powers are very good.
If you gain a power but it's not useful you're known as a Deuce.This isn't your normal (well for the time it was written) superhero book.
They were both written around the same time in a similar vein.
A brilliant collection I can't wait to read the next volume.
Started this one out of curiosity when I heard it will be turn into a TV show: https://www.theguardian.com/books/201...From my POV, I think the movie/show will be better than the book. Also, had it been a graphic novel, I would have enjoyed it better, I guess. But as a book, is too cartoon-ish and I wasn't drawn into it. Maybe will try another in the series at some other time...
Just to be a completest, I read the three stories added to the 2010 re-release of Wild Cards.Good stuff, for the most part. They don't really add a lot to the volume, but they're a decent inclusion. "Ghost Girls Take Manhattan" was a very good story on its own. That didn't surprise me, as I'm a fan of Carrie Vaughn's writing already.
Under the pretense of a "realistic" take on superheroes male authors yet again manage to equate reality with lots of rape and prostitutes and passive women who need men to survive.
The premise is people get a "Wild Card" of mutations, meaning it's totally random, and yet nearly every female character in the book has a power focused on either making them weak or making them need sex constantly.
Face your insecurities and learn to write realistic characters.
Reading books like this you'd think every single woman on the planet was pathetically lonely without a man to save or fuck them.
Mi-a plăcut enorm acest volum care nu e tocmai un roman, dar nici chiar o antologie.
E ca un colaj al unei lumi, realizat din mai multe perspective.Iar lumea e superbă și fascinantă, e un univers cu super-eroi, dar nu unul plin de glume și de culoare, cum e cel Marvel, ci mult mai gri și mai realist.
M-a dus puțin cu gândul la X-men, așa că îl recomand fanilor mutanților lui Xavier, dar și tuturor celor pasionați de poveștile cu super-eroi care își doresc să experimenteze un univers ceva mai matur și mai bine închegat.Recenzia volumului o găsiți pe blog | Jurnalul unei cititoare.
The final possibility is to pull an ‘Ace’ – to receive a random superhuman ability.In Wild Cards 1 edited by George R.R. Martin, the reader experiences the re-writing of American, and world history, covering the forty years from nineteen forty six onwards.
For example, one of the driving forces behind the series is George R.R. Martin and although I have never read the Game of Thrones novels, they are loved by many and I have heard nothing but good things about them.
Most victims die, others experience physical or psychic changes: aces have useful powers, deuces minor maybe entertaining abilities, jokers uglified, disabled, relegated to ghettos.
Men desire, rescue, and destroy.
Women are desired, rescued, and destroyed.
Female characters appear at length only in chapters with such authors, vengeful rape victim subway car from Leanne Harper, primarily passive mistress roles, such as from Melinda Snodgrass.
Hence X-rated shelf for whole book, possibly misleading.
(Worst books are only on the Read shelf.) My favorite episode is Martin's Turtle.
The initial premise of a wild card virus that induces abilities makes more sense without the alien origin.
Отдавна ми е в полезрението тази серия и честно, не съм вярвал, че ще я видим преведена на български.Интересна концепция - група автори сътворяват последователни истории в едно алтернативно земно бъдеще, след края на ВСВ.
Светът е атакуван от извънземен вирус и нищо не е същото както преди - жокери, аса и двойки се опитват да се впишат в новите реалности, където мутациите и новите им способности не са добре дошли, с някои малки изключения.
Неизбежен е паралелът с поредицата на Сандерсън - "Възмездителите", която е една идея по-добре развита според мен.Ще видим, дали има прогрес в историята - все пак има издадени още над 20 книги от поредицата "Wild cards".
Practically, you have a single world, characters who reappear in multiple stories, different writers all adding something to a bigger story - and, of course, you have superheroes.
The bigger story is this: there's an alien planet where people are genetically very similar to humans.
They're also way bigger jerks than humans, and some of them have paranormal powers and want to increase their numbers, so they devise a virus which would genetically modify people to become superpowered (1% of the population).
The stories are mostly about people who have been changed by the virus, whether they're superpowered or disfigured - and they're realistic and gritty and entertaining.

In a very good short story by Martin himself, despite the best efforts of World War II Hero “Jet Boy,” an evil comic book thug releases the virus on New York City (Manhattan) and people start mutating.
Jokers are haunted, feared creatures who become second class citizens very similar to Black Americans during the Second World War. The smallest group are those who become “Aces.” Aces keep their human form, mostly, and also have a power.
It is a fantastic premise; something that drew me to the series straight away.Wild Cards 1 is made up of a number of individual stories, all written by different authors, but set in the same world, and often involving the same characters.
He is important to the world as a whole, but also an intriguing and very diverse character who I really came to associate with.It really feels like a complete world, especially given the focus is on so many people with extraordinary abilities/deformities.
I liked a few stories in it (there was even a four-star tale here and there; counterbalanced by a few one-star efforts), but the overall achievement was merely "okay." Many of the shorts were solid in execution, but the book itself was quite hit-and-miss in the overall spirit of the "Golden Age of Heroes" and actually depressing, stamping a rather dejected impression on me in the larger sense.
I don't think I'll pick up more in the immediate sense, but I'll keep an open mind, perhaps read some more reviews of other books in the series.
Two things have kept me from reading this series for quite some time:1) The "mosaic" novel aspect: I felt that switching authorial voices every chapter would dilute the storytelling.2) I wasn't sure how much I'd enjoy "superhero" stories without the sequential art.For reservation number 1, it wasn't the switching authorial voices that bothered me, it was the lack of a narrative through-line.
And reservation number 2 ended up being a non-issue.This linked collection of short stories set in a shared universe (or "mosaic" novel, for short) holds up pretty well (published in the mid-eighties).
Breaking the story up between different writers also helps add to the feeling that the world of the Wild Card virus is a dynamic world, with numerous goings-on that can relate to each other in all kinds of ways.The stories are by turns intensely interpersonal, or action oriented, but they all juxtapose noir with the giddiness inherit to shared scifi - "Look at all these opportunities!
Let's play in this collective sandbox!" I had originally read this series when it came out; I was in highschool at the time.
I'm looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
Prima carte cu supereroi pe care am citit-o. Probabil de aceea la inceput mi s-a parut interesanta - prin atmosfera razboiului rece din anii 50. Apoi, pe masura ce a urcat in timp, dar si datorita obisnuintei cu atmosfera - m-a plictisit. O remarca negativa despre traducatori, aveam asteptari mai mari in privinta culturii lor SF. Traduc titlul celebrului film mut al lui Fritz Lang, Woman in the Moon, prin Femeia de pe luna. Titlul in romana, ca si in engleza, germana etc fiind Femeia in luna.
Osrednji horor krimić čiji su protagonisti ljudi i vukodlaciOčekivao sam više od Martina
This is an anthology of short stories, set in a shared universe, edited by George RR Martin (but note he does contribute stories as well as editing).The Wild Cards universe begins in 1946, the same as ours up until that point, then an alien virus known as the 'wild card' virus is unleashed over New York.
have powers, but powers that are practically useless.This first book in the Wild Card series, sets up the story of how the wild card virus came to be released, and the immediate results of it.
Now you will be treated to one short story and a few Interludes from G.R.R. Martin- but the vast majority of this book is written by a variety of authors.
Back in 1987 G.R.R. Martin wrote Wild Cards 1 as a collection of short stories, along with other authors like Roger Zelaney and Walter Jon Williams.
They are comic book stories put to novel form.
But still-this is a good sci-fi with a distinct "comic book" feel.
It'd likely be better if G.R.R. Martin would have written more of the stories instead of the one meager story I think this would have been amazing.
Nos encontramos con un rara avis dentro del mercado literario español: un compendio de relatos situados en el mismo mundo alternativo y editado para ganar coherencia por el mismo George R. R. Martin (del que se incluye un relato), sí, el autor de  Juego de Tronos . Muchos de los nombres que firman los relatos no son precisamente conocidos, aunque alguno hay, como Roger Zelazny. Pero eso no es lo que más llama la atención de este compendio, sino el cuidado y el cariño que se le ha puesto. Se trat
Nos encontramos con un rara avis dentro del mercado literario español: un compendio de relatos situados en el mismo mundo alternativo y editado para ganar coherencia por el mismo George R.
R. Martin (del que se incluye un relato), sí, el autor de 
Pero eso no es lo que más llama la atención de este compendio, sino el cuidado y el cariño que se le ha puesto.
Que sea extraño en el mercado no significa que no haya habido otras recopilaciones de relatos ambientados en un mundo, como muestra está Relatos de Faerun, pero este se aleja de los relatos de fantasía para ofrecernos algo distinto.
