https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195993.The_House_in_Paris
It’s as if throughout this novel Bowen’s sensibility is heightened to the pitch of a lonely woman in a big house who hears what sounds like an intruder downstairs in the middle of the night.
This is well dramatised in the first part of the novel where two children struggle to assert themselves in a house dominated by the overpowering Mme Fisher, aided and abetted by her subservient daughter, Naomi.
The first part when the two children arrive at the spooky house in Paris is perhaps a little over-laboured.
Thus the expectation remains the sole experience, and Leopold remains in charge of his imagination, as reality does not destroy it.The reader also travels between children's and grown-ups' perspectives, and is able to discover the transition from one level of human understanding to another.
Like a station, the adolescent mind of Henrietta, part of the story for a single day by a chance break on her journey, picks up fragments of lives and adds them to her own impression - while her travelling self adds to others' life log books as well.A story of passion and heartbreak, of sexual power and destruction - without ever being voyeuristic, it is deeply erotic.
A day fraught with drama and discovery in the Fisher residence in Paris… This is the day in which eleven year old Henrietta is in transit to her grandmother’s house in the South of France, but having to spend a day in Paris with Madame and Miss Fisher until her next chaperone can join her to continue the journey.This is the day when young Leopold has come to Paris with high hopes.It will be a day of bitter disappointments, when a person young or old may be changed in a moment just as Karen’s life changed in a moment in the past.
I tried, man, I really tried to get through this fucking thing. Got about 3/4 and my friend asked what it was about. I told her, and she said, "That sounds really good." So I slammed it closed and said "Take it."
While I have no doubt that Elizabeth Bowen was probably a delightful woman, the photographer has managed to catch her in a pose which has left her looking like Aunt Sally from the Wurzel Gummidge TV series which was probably not the look she was going for (I like to think she was aiming for worldly and erudite but falling wide of the mark).I chose the House in Paris from the 1001 books list based on the name alone, as I knew nothing of the plot and being incredibly lazy did not bother to investigate prior to purchase.
It is in three sections, called respectively “The Present,” “The Past,” and “The Present.” Henrietta Mountjoy, a young girl of eleven or so, is looked after by some friends of her grandmother’s, the Fishers, while passing through Paris on the way to the Riviera.
; but then I love Maisie, and am not prepared to exalt one little girl over the other.Also elegant—exquisitely so—is Bowen’s prose and social observation.
The long middle section of the book, which could almost stand on its own as a separate novella, shows Karen poised between the two kinds of love: the doubts and shocks of the first and the social propriety of the second.
Her craftsmanship is exquisite, she is masterful at having her characters express the perfect emotion, and if there's a writer of adult novels who can write from a child's vantage point better, I don't know who it is.The House in Paris is divided into three sections.
Eleven-year-old Henrietta is stopping over in the Paris home of Miss and Mme. Fisher, family friends, on her way to live with her grandmother in the south of France.
Yet the tension in the novel never abates, as the second section ("The Past") goes ten years back to introduce us to Leopold's mother Karen, his father, and reintroduce their mutual friend Miss Fisher.
No one spoke or acted as real people spoke or acted (at least not as I've experienced them).
The children weren't really children; the adults...not sure what they were.Then I came to the middle section labeled "The Past".
This section opened the book up for me, making the characters real, illuminating the author's choices (for me) even for the strange dialogue and monologue choices.
Reality didn't exist until after that middle section had been explained (in my "Paris world view").
This is not a book for everyone as plot is not going to carry the reader along.
"But to be quite oneself one must first waste a little time."What a coincidence--I just stumbled onto this group at the precise moment I'm reading The House in Paris!
Last week, I reviewed Victoria Glendinning's biography of Bowen and was reminded that for all her resemblance to James, Bowen was an Impressionist, which approach Glendinning attributes in some degree to the fact that Bowen was extremely nearsighted and hated to wear her glasses.
You just get in your own way.That said, I must also confess that The House in Paris is the one of her novels I remembered having tried twice to get through and failing both times, chiefly because Henrietta and Leopold didn't seem like children but like miniature adults.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0889b1lDescription: 1: From her deathbed, the sinister Madame Fisher weaves the lives of young Henrietta and Leopold as she manipulated others before them.
Will Madame Fisher reveal her secrets of love, scandal and death?2: Apart for five years, Karen agrees to an illicit meeting with Max that is set to spark fatal consequences.
3: Fading fast, is scheming Mme Fisher sowing the seeds for the ultimate destruction of her house in Paris?Stars Sara Kestelman as Mme Fisher, Sunny Ormonde as Karen, Susan Bovell as Naomi Fisher, John Duttine as Max, Ann Windsor as Aunt Violet, David King as Uncle Bill, Fiona Christie as Henrietta and Joshua Goodman as Leopold.
The focus of The Present is two children, Leopold and Henrietta, who are stopping at the house of Mme. Fisher in Paris for just a day as a connection point for further journeying.
The bulk of this book is in the middle section "The Past", where we learn the backstory of one of these children and how they came to be connected to Mme. Fisher.
I wondered in the first section of The House in Paris if I would like it.
But in the middle section, Bowen writes passages of such brilliant insight into friendship, loyalty, romantic relationships/situations that they often took my breath away.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:From her deathbed, the sinister Madame Fisher weaves the lives of young Henrietta and Leopold as she manipulated others before them.But who is Karen, the mother who gave Leopold away?
Will Madame Fisher reveal her secrets of love, scandal and death?Episode 2 of 3Apart for five years, Karen agrees to an illicit meeting with Max that is set to spark fatal consequences.
Episode 3 of 3Fading fast, is scheming Mme Fisher sowing the seeds for the ultimate destruction of her house in Paris?
I no longer remember what motivated me to read (or rather listen to) this novel, which is my first experience of Elizabeth Bowen's writing.
The action, such as it is, occurs on a single day when two children - Henrietta and Leopold - meet in a house in Paris.
What I like most about this work is Bowen's characterisation of Henrietta and Leopold.
I also like the way Bowen handled her themes: identity, time, secrets and lies, the relationship between mothers and their children.
It's possible that this novel will grow on me over the next few weeks, but it could also remain a work I admire more than I love.
Rating: 2.75* of fiveThe Book Report: Henrietta and Leopold, two young people in transit, come together at the Paris house of Miss Fisher, a mousy spinster, and her formidable mother Madame Fisher.
Henrietta is the granddaughter of an old frenemy of Madame's; Leopold has a less well-explained, more painful connection to the Fishers.
It's sentimental, it's melodramatic, and I just didn't get off to a good start with it, since I detested Harriet the prim, smug little dumpling and abhorred wet, sniveling, spineless Miss Fisher.The subtext of Harriet's grandmother's Sapphic affair with the invalid Madame Fisher, and the Big Reveal of Leopold's true connection to the Fishers, were not enough to make me change my low opinion of the book.
But within very few pages I found myself drawn into the world of Leopold and Henrietta, two children who happens to meet in a house in Paris.The book is seperated into three parts - present, past and present again.
After having enjoyed Henrietta's and Leopold's banter, it was a bit hard to get into this part but once it got going, I really enjoyed it - and the story of Leopold's parents was very, very interesting.After we've heard the story of Leopold's parents, we are back in Paris with Henrietta and Leopold - and a very interesting plot twist that I did not saw coming at all.This was a very good book - the people in it felt so real, especially the two children.
Henrietta and Leopold are two children who meet at the house in Paris at transition point in their life.
Leopold is a bit younger (9) having arrived from Italy to finally meet his mysterious birth mother.
Part 3 returns to the present with Henrietta and Leopold trying to find their way through the entanglements of the adult world and their own perceptions as they navigate toward adolescence.
They are right: Not seeking husbands yet they have no need to see love socially.” I am very glad to have read the novel again and this time it is not just Henrietta and Leopold I will remember.
This book delivers some of what I had expected to find there; the children and their experiences are taken very seriously, and their perspective filters what happens in the present.
In the last section, having read the past, you know more than they do, and that gap also drives some of the interest, but the first section, when the reader is placed into the same perspective that the children are -- having to guess what is happening, sensing that things are strange without having the necessary information to prove it -- this section makes the first section the strongest for me.
"You feel most foreign when you no longer belong where you did..." First published in 1935, The House in Paris, is the fifth book written by Elizabeth Bowen and as I have come to know, it is also one of the best books written by her. This is the first Bowen that I have read and most probably also the last.In the book, the writer beautifully described the surroundings and did a wonderful job in capturing all the details of the external world in a book which was being shaken up by the internal wo
I liked the parts that were written in 'The Present' and most importantly I loved the last part of the book.The story mostly dealt with the complexities of human relationships, 'of mother and child', 'of lovers', 'of husband and wife', and most importantly and very discreetly she also talked about 'friendship'.
Children think their parents' life start with them, they see their parents realities and create their parents identities in their mind with what they see while living with them, from all that happens in the present.
Sometimes those hidden realities make no much difference and sometimes they ruin families and lives.So, yes the adults are actually the central characters and most importantly Leopold's mother, Karen.
In this case, grammar equations!Speaking of grammar, I have to quote my friend Lisa here from her review on Goodreads, because it not only makes me feel like I'm not alone in this, but she says exactly what I wanted to say, so well:I had a difficult time getting used to the author’s writing style which was spare and unusual, but lovely too.
But like with people in the flesh, there are going to be writers who just think in a different way from you, and their line of reasoning isn't easy to follow for you - maybe not always, but enough to perplex.
With many books I’ve had a difficult time choosing whether to rate a book 4 or 5 stars or 3 or 4 stars or 2 or 3 stars, but I’ve never had any dilemma more challenging than that.
If I wasn’t so compulsive about rating every single one of my read books, I’d be tempted to leave this unrated.I had a difficult time getting used to the author’s writing style which was spare and unusual, but lovely too.
I felt stupid while reading because the writing style made reading this book feel challenging for me, but I felt as though I shouldn’t find it difficult.
I'm just not sure how I feel about this book!
E. Bowen writes brilliantly in that detached, British pre-war kind of way, leaving questions strewn in her wake!
(Leopold is clearly the literary son of that creepy little boy in The Turn of the Screw.) But what happens to Henrietta as a result of her adventure at the house in Paris?
Will Ray take Leopold "home" to his mother?
Did Max Do It with Naomi's mother?
Why can't Max & Karen just Do It & get it over with?
Am I reading too much into this book?
It starts with a young girl arriving at a house in Paris for the day, just a layover on a trip she is taking.
A young boy also arrives, and he is to meet his mother.And then the boy opens a purse, and takes out letters inside, and reads them, and suddenly, the characters are revealed to have secrets upon secrets, all tied together, and bound up in the house in Paris.It's a beautifully written story, carefully placed and plotted out, so that in the end the reader is left to marvel at the marvelous workmanship behind the book.
I was utterly swept away by this. The characters, particularly the children, are divinely crafted, and everything about it felt realistic. Beautifully written, and almost impossible to put down.
I had just started reading about postmodernist literature, having no idea what it was, and a novel cited as "anticipating" it, The House in Paris (1935) by Elizabeth Bowen, caught my attention.
I liked that it told a story of betrayal from the POV of two children, Henrietta (11) and Leopold (9).
Henrietta, on her way to visit her grandmother, encounters Leopold, on his way, he thinks, to meet his birth mother.
The middle part focuses on a time ten years ago, perhaps imagined by Leopold, when a very fanciful young Karen meets secretly with the fiancé of her best friend, Naomi.
One day in February two children meet, Henrietta (11) and Leopold (9), both are briefly visiting “The House in Paris” owned by Mme Fisher.
The book is divided in three sections: (1) the “present” what happens in the house; (2) the “past” - the story of Leopold’s mother Karen as imagined in Leopold’s mind; and (3) the “present” which finishes out the day.
In the first section I felt annoyed by the slow pace, distant relationships and all the secret betrayals going on (why would you do terrible things to those you love -- your close friends & family?) But after reading the second section, I looked forward to finishing the book.
A bit of a slog, at times excessively dramatic in a manner that only early novels know how to be. Virginia Woolf liked this book but she didn’t like Ulysses; she is not to be trusted!
Jane Austen avrebbe raccontato soltanto la vicenda centrale - matrimoni mancati, amore illegittimo, conseguenze letali - con sospiri e cenni di capo, e io lo avrei gustato ma non l'avrei finito.
Il racconto della passionalità non si addice alle signore inglesi del secolo scorso; se questo non è vero, sarò felice di essere smentita!
A very difficult book to rate. The characters as represented through dialogue are very odd. While reading this book I kept asking myself, "who speaks like this?" The answer is, of course, "no one." This strange dialogue is intentional, but still not a pleasure to read and very distracting to the story. On the other hand, some of the characters (who speak this strange dialogue) will not be easily forgotten, nor will the story as a whole.
Confined primarily to one day in one house in Paris, this is a fascinating combination of claustrophobia, momentum and magnitude – and full of instantly memory-imprinting images. A brief close-up focus, which promises to pull out to so much more, and leaves the imagination fizzing.
14 JAN 2016 - recommendation through Laura. Many Thanks!
