https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/503051.The_Diversity_of_Life
By coincidence, the Pope just this week presented an Encyclical which exhorted politicians and individuals everywhere to do everything possible to preserve biodiversity.If you are like me, it’s easy to get struck dumb with hopeless, depressing feelings over facts continually dumped on our heads about species loss linked to the progressive destruction of natural habitats.
From such a mathematical relationship, Wilson presented an estimate for species loss of 10-20% over 30 years associated with rates of worldwide rain forest destruction.
All my linguistics friends made fun of me when I took environmental biology at BYU, but it was honestly of the most spiritual classes I took there. I read this for a report in that class, and I absolutely loved it. If you want to learn more about how ecosystems work in the world in a way that will really make you appreciate the blessings of the Lord, this is a great book.
This book written by double Pulitzer prize winning zoologist Edward Wilson is a little dated and at 30 years old the illustrations are a little amateurish ........But Edward Wilson, as close to a modern day Charles Darwin as there is, provides a comprehensive understanding of life on earth ranging from blue whales to bacteria. Highly recommended for science buffs and enjoyable for us curious lay persons. It makes me smile to know that amazing people like Wilson populate our world.
Save What Remains - No scientific process like cloning, freezing, seed banks, arboretums, zoos, or botanical gardens can ever hope to truly restore an ecosystem to its original state - the climate and conditions are very difficult to reproduce, and populations will have been reduced so low that their genetic diversity will be mostly lost anyway.
I feel like there are reasons to be skeptical, but I don't understand them yet, and want to read more before I try to explain them.Mortimer Adler says that when you read a practical book, and you agree that its ends are good and that its means will achieve them, you ought to go do what the book says.
Instead, I picked it up for a buck at our library's used book sale.For an amateur naturalist and docent for 4th graders at a nature preserve this book perfectly addressed the main topics we try to get across to the kids: how important and delicate ecosystems are and how if you remove certain keystone species the whole habitat may collapse like the London Bridge.Given that the book is now more than 20 years old, I am keen to read a more recent book on the same topic to see if Wilson's predictions have come true with respect to estimates of species yet undiscovered and unnamed and more importantly, of those that have gone extinct.I wonder if kids of the future will see tigers, lions, wolves, elephants, gorrillas, etc.
O. Wilson book to read.
Sometimes, when I hear too much about a book, it makes me want to read it less.So, when I found myself amongst the impossibly tall stacks in the evolutionary biology section of Powells Books for the first time, E.
O. Wilson's name immediately jumped out at me as familiar, as did the title The Diversity of Life, but I was not yet ready to read it.
I chose instead Consilience, and found myself immediately enamored with Wilson's eloquence, and his ability to make science accessible without for a moment dumbing it down.The Diversity of Life follows this pattern of eloquence, and I steamrolled my way through it far faster than I had expected.
This is an important book that everyone should read but I couldn't help but feel Wilson missed a great opportunity here.
His analysis is cogent and it would take someone who is willfully ignorant to take issue.Nevertheless, for the amateur naturalist, I think that the failure to include even a short section on what one can do in their own community was a terrible missed opportunity.
I couldn't help but think it would have been really great for him to mention something as simple as planting milkweed for our fast disappearing Monarch butterflies.
EO Wilson is just excellent.
This 400 page paperback is an introduction to biogeography, paleontology (including paleobotany), how humans are impacting various ecosystems from the rainforests, to the oceans, to the temperate regions like the US, to the Arctic.
Lets you in on the secrets of what's being destroyed as we humans expand our activities.
Those species with only 500 individuals will not survive.
This book lays out the reasons why (breeding populations are usually 10% of the whole population and 50 males with 50 females will not preserve enough of the species diversity to reproduce with out destructive genes being expressed).
As a biologist, I think is perhaps one of the most engaging and readable introductions to evolution and ecology. Anyone can read this book and not even realize they are learning the fundamentals of these fields. Wilson presents biology as a travelogue around the world and through time.
Study of islands in the Caribbean, which was initiated by Wilson and another biologist in the 1960s, shows that if the area occupied by an ecosystem is reduced by a factor of 10, the number of resident species falls by half, and the logarithmic proportion is approximately the same for other factors.
Rainforests are now reduced to about half of their prehuman area; nobody knows, how many species have gone extinct because nobody knows, how many species were there originally, but for well-studied taxons such as birds the numbers are in the tens of percent.
And finally I will argue that every scrap of biological diversity is priceless, to be learned and cherished, and never to be surrendered without a struggle" (32)) into a captivating series of vignettes--through geological history, evolutionary processes, trends and methods, and snapshots that, however comprehensive and detailed, only begin to skim the surface of the complexity of an ecosystem on any scale.
The reading itself is intense, the information pours thick from the pages, but Wilson's terrific writing style allows the story to unfold (wide-eyed, wonderful, awesome) rather than listing pages and pages of data as would be found in a textbook (the amount of info may actually rival some).
I may rate it later, and if I do I'll probably go into some more detail in the review.
I was _very_ close to chucking the book after the first 10-15 pages because it reads like a very long NY Times article.
Why am I reading this crap?')It got better.
Incidentally the foreword is much better than the first 'proper chapter', and it's safe to say that if I'd skipped the foreword I'd never have read past page 10.iii.
On the other hand there's some interesting stuff as well.Overall, I don't really think this book is worth your time.
The Diversity of Life is more or less The Short History of Time of evolutionary ecology and biological diversity but with a disturbing twist.
The cosmos and its workings are hardly threatened by man while we're destroying earth's ecosystems and its biodiversity at an alarming and depressing rate (and this book was published in 1992).
The science is fascinating, and perhaps no one's better at communicating it to non-specialists than Wilson.
Surely better understanding of ecology and biodiversity by many more people is a place to start, probably a necessity, and this may well be the best general audience book for that purpose.
Un grande saggio divulgativo.Tecnicamente sono sempre stato un poco critico verso la sociobiologia, ma si tratta appunto di questioni interne alla discussione sulla sovrainterpretazione dei dati che i biologi raccolgono in tutto il mondo. Nulla toglie a E.O.Wilson, uno dei maggiori biologi viventi nonché uno dei migliori divulgatori viventi.Un libro consigliato a tutti i curiosi del mondo, a chi vuol togliersi il paraocchi delle proprie ideologie e a chi quel paraocchi non vuole proprio metterselo.
Apart from being incredibly knowledgeable about ecology and naturalism, Edward O. Wilson is also quite eloquent and articulate, a trait that is unfortunately lacking for many scientists and scientists who try to write books. He's really just one of the smartest guys to have ever trekked through the Amazon Rainforest and lived to write about it.
You can't help but get pulled into the ecosystems the author describes with such detail, and you also can't help but catch at least a little of his contagious love and fascination with all of the lifeforms around us. I loved reading it, and learned a lot. But mostly I just loved reading Wilson's writing and sharing in his infectious enthusiasm for organisms and evolution.
Read all E. O. Wilson Books.
I love this book. I love it for what I learned about biodiversity and biology, and also to be able to read about this man who spent his life in healthy work.
Im slowly making my way through some of the most influential and important biology related books. They are not required in my studies, but I think its good to know where the information we are taught comes from, to read about the research straight from the scientist. For conservation biology Edward O. Wilsons The Diversity of Life is a classic, the first time someone really draws attention to the mass extinction caused by us, the humans. I found it very interesting to learn about how he made his
They are not required in my studies, but I think it´s good to know where the information we are taught comes from, to read about the research straight from the scientist.
Wilson´s The Diversity of Life is a classic, the first time someone really draws attention to the mass extinction caused by us, the humans.
I found it very interesting to learn about how he made his calculations and overall, what kind of studies did he make and were made in general at the time.
I think that The Diversity of Life would work very well for anyone interested in biology as understanding it doesn´t require any former knowledge.
In theory, at least, the minimization of extinction rates and the minimization of economic costs are compatible: the more that other forms of life are used and saved, the more productive and secure will our own species be.
Future generations will reap the benefit of wise decisions taken on behalf of biological diversity by our generation."Arriving at this conclusion requires understanding a slew of other foundational concepts around how the economy should serve humanity and not the other way around and around how diversity works in a variety of ecosystems.
The death of birth:‘…evolution cannot perform as in previous ages if natural environments have been crowded out by artificial ones, the phenomenon known by biologists as “the death of birth.”’ P xx (foreword).The irony of learning we have destroyed ourselves:'If there is danger in the human trajectory, it is not so much in the survival of our own species as in the fulfillment of the ultimate irony of organic evolution: that in the instant of achieving self-understanding through the mind of man, life has doomed its most beautiful creations.' P.
328Out of time:'All these considerations converge to the same conclusion: ex situ methods will save a few species otherwise beyond hope, but the light and the way for the world's biodiversity is the preservation of natural ecosystems.
This book filled me with a sense of dismay and despondency for the amount of destruction that we have wrought upon our planet's biological diversity.
I am also inundated with wonder and awe at the level of biological diversity that existed and still tenuously exist on our planet todayOur children shall curse us for ruining their inheritance built by natural evolution through billions of years In the first few chapters, the author handles the explanation of the meaning of biodiversity, its origin (speciation), and its estimated extent superbly.
Fortunately he is such a gifted writer that he enlivens the science with colorful images: a tiny weevil is covered with a “miniature traveling garden” of algae and mosses.In the last portion of the book, “The Human Impact,” Wilson develops a favorite theme, what he calls the “biological wealth of the world.” It’s ultimately only nature and its biodiversity that give humans the air, water, and soil on which we depend.
He exhibits his warmth and his passion for his field as he urges us to preserve…”the world in which the human spirit was born.”With its well-chosen examples, logical arguments, and clear writing this is an important and useful book and a wonderful way for the general reader to begin to understand the true value of our planet’s biodiversity.
The Diversity of Life is a nonfiction book that takes a broad look at much of the life on earth, talks about the abundance of untapped potential that undiscovered life has to offer us, and finally puts forth the authors argument as to why we need to work now to start preserving and protecting what we have. The book is a passionate lesson on the wonders of nature not just through the eyes of someone who has devoted a life to its study but also to it. The author adds to the book his own experienc
The Diversity of Life is a nonfiction book that takes a broad look at much of the life on earth, talks about the abundance of untapped potential that undiscovered life has to offer us, and finally puts forth the authors argument as to why we need to work now to start preserving and protecting what we have.
The author adds to the book his own experiences in the depths of the Amazon and the islands of the Pacific.
This adds an emotional aspect to a book that without it would simply be a barren biology lesson.
This book is a very comprehensive look at the immensity of biodiversity, the aspects of biodiversity we are aware of, the vast mysteries of biodiversity that we have not yet even touched upon, and why and how we might save biodiversity (and perhaps ourselves) for present and future generations.
Having just completed an M.Sc. in Conservation Biology, I found that this book touched on all the topics we covered in immense details in my courses and was full of interesting examples.
I highly recommend this book to everyone, especially to those who do not usually read science books.
My one-phrase rundown: Read it if you don't already know it.This iconic book was about biodiversity, plain and simple.
So it's not as if I didn't think the book was good, or that Wilson isn't an impressive man in his accomplishments.
Indeed, those who didn't (don't?) spend much time or energy thinking about the sixth extinction - and what it means to us - might find the sheer weight of his diversity estimates staggering.
They certainly should.If nothing else, it was a good reminder of how abundant and diverse the world around us really is.
And it convinced me to read some more contemporary Wilson books.
Uscito all'inizio degli anni Novanta con il titolo "La diversità della vita" e ormai considerato un classico, questo libro ci conduce alla scoperta del processo evolutivo che ha prodotto, col passare delle ere, la straordinaria differenziazione delle specie animali e vegetali.
Per cinque volte, negli ultimi seicento milioni di anni, questo processo ha seguito brusche interruzioni a causa di mutamenti climatici, provocati dalla deriva dei continenti o da catastrofi naturali come la caduta di un meteorite o una serie di immani eruzioni vulcaniche.
Per cinque volte, l'evoluzione è riuscita a porre riparo all'impoverimento della biodiversità, ma solo dopo milioni di anni.

In this Wilson talks about general ecology and evolution and how these things give rise to diversity.
A great introduction.
I think it would be perfect in a biology or ecology curriculum.
The last part, however, is Wilson advocating for the preservation of this diversity.
This is a point that is very important, but I didn't feel like I was learning anything new at the end.
Despite this, his writing is as lively as ever (the introduction is great nature poetry, I think, especially for a scientist), and his examples are really gripping without feeling anecdotal.
This book read like Cliff's Notes for several undergrad textbooks in ecology, evolution and conservation rolled into one.
Some of it was a bit outdated - particularly the second to last chapter entitled "Resolution", as many more relevant and modern solutions have been suggested since the original publication of this book.
Wilson assumes readers have a basic background in biology based on the vague theoretical and conceptual explanations of terminology, but the subject matter is too basic to be intended for professional conservationists.
There are a lot of great examples mentioned here, and I will definitely refer back to these in the future as I prepare to teach undergrad biology courses.
