https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16939.Literary_Theory
Reception Theory: Tigger tells Winnie that the only reason he is so popular as a character is that readers can “relate” to his being orange and craving frequent honey.
Structuralism: Tigger tells Pooh that his preoccupation with honey is part of larger woodland structure dating back to the stone age, and that “honey” has always been a signifier triggering hunger and savagery in the heart of orange bears, long before Milne gave them the consciousness to understand the signified of “honey” as a delicious bee-made product popularly served in pots.
From the Romantic attachment to an individual interpretation of the nebulously populated field of literature, wherein meaning was self-derived and -inhering, taken from a text fully in the possession of its author and timeless in its insistence upon deriving personally situated pleasures, things change drastically by the time we arrive in the seventies with post-structuralism in full operation, gleefully prying apart blocks of words in order to harvest the bounty of enchained potential meaning recrudescent between flickering signifier and untethered referent and scattering all claims of absolute knowledge to the four winds of metaphorical delusion.
This makes the book engaging almost like a novel can be in that there is some drama as he leads the reader into one school, makes the reader think "Hmm, I like these ideas and would like to subscribe to the newsletter" before he then pulls at a few threads and then demonstrates what critics of that approach actually did, showing up its flaws and questionable assumptions and stuff, before Eagleton goes on to show what was reassembled from that mess into a new trend of thought which he gives the whole pitch for, before doing that again.Yes, I know what you are thinking; your exact thoughts right now are "But wait, isn't he reifying the idea of intellectual 'evolution' by imposing a progress-narrative myth over disparate communities of cultural discourse as if they are elements within a linear strand of causally-connected events?"Well duh.And as one of the esteemed UK Gucci Marxists he should know better, right?
Or perhaps this is more of an essay on theory from a Marxist slant.Terry Eagleton's prefatory statement: "Hostility to theory usually means an opposition to other people's theories and an oblivion of one's own" seems ironic in a book, though innocuously entitled Literary Theory: An Introduction, that works instead to decimate most literary theory in the 60 years prior to the book's publication.
While Eagleton does provide some excellent synopses of critical theory, knowing he has an agenda is essential.
And, as I said, Eagleton's engagement with these thinkers never loses sight of the historical and sociological: he sees the literary criticism, and the literature, of a historical moment as being bound in essential ways with contemporary social and political problems.But it is not the body of the work that I love most; I was influenced most profoundly by the "Introduction," subtitled "What Is Literature?," and the "Conclusion," subtitled "Political Criticism." These two chapters are nothing short of stunning.
This 200 page introduction to literary theory is now studied at Harvard Business School as an example of how an academic textbook can become a best-seller.
You will have to go to Eagleton's other books ("How to Read Literature") for his brilliant Marxist and feminist analyses of literature.Eagleton argues for the liberating power of theory: "One important reasons for the growth of literary theory since the 1960s was..the impact of new kinds of students entering higher education from supposedly "uncultivated" backgrounds.
Whether you are beleaguered undergraduate studying English Literature,or a book club reader wanting to spice up discussion of the latest best-seller, this book has something for everyone.
چه قدرررر طول کشید!به زودی در این مکان ریویو نصب میشود.
چه قدرررر طول کشید!به زودی در این مکان ریویو نصب می‌شود.
To take an example, Eagleton criticizes phenomenology for presenting an inadequate strategy to deal with literary works.
But all 'literature' is is an evaluative term for a loose assemblage of works, both poetry and prose, that people have deemed influential, brilliant, or essential to understanding particular civilizations or human nature in general.
Eagleton’s book is a discussion of literary styles of the twentieth century and covers a variety of literary theories.
A beneficial discussion in the book approaches the question of literature and its definition.
As for the actual discussion of literary theory, Eagleton is thorough when setting the stage for a review of the different theories.
At times, it appears that Eagleton writes to “hear himself talk.” One review listed on the back cover says that both members of the academy and civilians will appreciate Eagleton’s treatment of the subject.
He hates the idea of the academy telling the rest of the world what constitutes literature.
It’s just another example of the powerful controlling the powerless, and he can’t stand it.Poststructuralism (Ch. 4) is a historical term, because it’s describing a theory that came after structuralism.
Poststructuralism could also be called A-structuralism, because it’s against the very idea of structure.
They claim not to value values (or say that the value is only relative), and yet they clearly value poststructuralism over structuralism.
They claim that there is no meaning, and yet they travel the world giving lectures on what poststructuralism means.Lots of information in the Afterward about postmodernity/postmodernism and metanarrative.
Wish I'd read this earlier in life
Second, it's an exercise in 'Marxism' of the most idiotic kind, which believes that anyone who holds an ideal (e.g., a harmonious society) and reads literature is just "submitting to the political status quo." For someone so keen on bringing politics into things, it's odd that Eagleton spends so little time thinking about the ways that reading literature as an image of harmony and so on might best be considered expressions of *yearning for* rather than *belief in* a harmonious society.
The book sets out to give a general sketch of how English language and literature rose to be a linchpin for analysis and description and a highly determining factor which largely effects numerous sectors of the society.
In helping us understand these concepts, Eagleton has employed a highly obtuse language which is mingled with his own personal attitude toward the approaches we use to read a text.I would offer this book to be read only if you are to read other books of literary criticism, otherwise;going through this book will be a hard task which doesn't guarantee any contribution to one's understanding of criticism .
I picked up this book expecting to learn a little bit about each major school of literary theory, and I wasn't disappointed.
The book is a much easier read than some of the authors it references, and (I hope) may be useful in understanding those authors.Eagleton says he would prefer to call it the "Theory of Discourse" rather than "Literary Theory" -- it's really the theory of human speech, communication, discussion, and rhetoric, in all forms.
The selection still seems a bit arbitrary to me -- haven't there been interesting linguistic theories since Saussure?
This is what I have taken away from this book and also understood from other theory books that I have read.
all played a part in how literature was viewed and dissected and analysed throughout the years.It was an entertaining ride, to say the least.
I learned early on that Terry Eagleton is not a capitalist.
I'm not well versed in literary theories myself to even begin to formulate a personal opinion on this subject, but I liked this book.
I admit I agreed with a lot of what Eagleton had to say about our society.
i 'know of' more than 'know' the various theories recounted here, much as a web of signifiers of any language.
i have not necessarily read or have forgotten many of the core lit theory texts.
i find this text very useful in summarizing all in one place, all from one voice, all with a skeptical but earnest attitude, these various schools.
this book is a good review...itself now an historical document (1983), and generally does place in era and history the schools of thought.
if you can read only one lit crit book this year read this one...
Edebiyat eleştirisi, edebiyat kuramları, "okuma" üzerine çok kitap okudum ama aralarında altını çizecek en fazla şey bulduğum kitap bu oldu. Bir miktar altyapıyla birlikte okunmasını tavsiye etmekle birlikte klasik sıfatını hak eden bir eser olduğunu söyleyeceğim. Kitapla ilgili aklımdaki tek olumsuz husus, yapısalcılık, psikanaliz gibi akımların incelenmesinin katı bir sıralamayla, yer yer edebiyat bağlamlarından çıkarılarak yapılmış olması. Psikanalizi bilmeyen bir insana psikanaliz öğretmek için sayfalar harcanmasındansa, psikanaliz-edebiyat vb. ilişkilere daha uzun ve kapsamlı değinilebilirdi.
ugh.
Ведучи нас на літературний цвинтар, він попутно досягає двох цілей — освітньої і емотивної: 1) якісно і дотепно впорядковує раніше читану/чуту гуманітаристику так, що вона нарешті стає стравною, і крізь усю книжку проводить здавалося б очевидну ідею про те, що — попри весь ламент адептів мистецтва для мистецтва — література політична, ба більше, таким є і саме літературознавство; 2) заряджає свою тезу етикою інакшої критики (більш свідомої власних пресупозицій) і надихає на зміни в теорії.
A text is not just words put on paper, it's the world of signs and signifiers(to employ the structuralist terminology) that we all inhabit.
I guess it won't be outlandish to say that the whole world's a text and we're all trying to make sense of it, regardless of whether we realize it or not.
The next time I read, listen or watch something, I'll be sure to pay a little bit more attention than I've done so far.
Always pays to read between the lines, and I'm not just talking about words printed on paper.
Don't every read this unless you enjoy suffering.
I'm sure it's my fault that I didn't like this book.
this was a really incredible introduction which i will likely return to again & again. as someone coming to the subject w only a very superficial understanding i didn't feel like i was being talked down to, but it was also v clear and easy to follow. eagleton goes about the theories in a very human way, but is also critical and funny w certain lines making me literally lol. and the last chapter on political criticism/the illusion of literary theory was amazing... gives some wider scope/purpose to the subject.
fantastično. plašila sam se da neću izdržati, jer nije baš moje polje, ali on je to sve tako dobro i jasno prikazao. sve teorije književnosti kojima se bavi u knjizi je tako dobro i objasnio i kritikovao, insistirajući na političkoj i ideološkoj dimenziji bilo koje teorije diskursa. stil mu je sjajan, na momente je i zabavan, a inače pitak i prožet istorijom (to najviše volim).
Strange the books one fails to read. I've written about this before (in connection with  The Handmaid's Tale ): how the very fact that you are supposed to have read certain books makes you feel like you have already read them long before you read them, so you do not in fact ever read them. There is the oft-cited scene in the campus novel I can't remember the name of where the English Renaissance scholar confesses he's never read Hamlet. Luckily, I have read Hamlet—about 10 or 11 times, in fact—b
The belief that politics supervenes upon aesthetics and ethics leads only to bad art and bad behavior, both beatified as somehow progressive.Eagleton can snidely smirk all he likes about "liberal humanism" and Matthew Arnold and all the rest of the ritually desecrated names of the theory era, but the fact is that the Romantics were right: in a brutal reductionist world, we need art to show us expansive thinking and beautiful living.
For a while now I've been playing a fruitless game in head about who has been the more persuasive regarding the propaganda wars, Eagleton or Hitchens?
Hitchens deals only in opinions about religion, not the substance of what makes it possible.
In this book, which I've just read after some years, Eagleton has one of the best definitions I've come across of what makes Baudelaire and Mallarme so attractive as poets, as envisioned through Julia Kristeva's theories.
And then you are left with the awful feeling that all there is to literature is its illusion, from a man who can play it well like a game.
Reader theory would argue that, although the intended reader (in this case, also the informed reader) was in the inferior position, the author did attempt to take the reader's reaction into account.2) From a linguistic point of view, this text may be testifying two sets of parole unified in one person, one langue.
The New Critic did score once when they realized that something came to the author's consciousness as he progressed: the intended reader's possible point of view surfaced in the author's mind.
If you only read one book about literary theory...well, who would blame you?
Still, the educated layperson who wants to bump their understanding of contemporary literary criticism up to a respectable cocktail party level probably can't do much better than Eagleton's slim, thoroughly accessible introduction to the subject.
Literary Theory traces the history of literature as an academic discipline from English Romanticism, through Saussure and semiotics, all the way to the fashionable heavy-hitters of postmodernism.
Neither an acolyte nor a debunker, Eagleton gives each theory a clear explanation and a fair shake in crisp, jargon-free prose.
This is a book that truly lives up to its subtitle.
I'm the wrong target audience here. After getting my English major and worming my way through the dense tangles of Deleuze, Heidegger, and Saussure, I'd like to think I emerged with some knowledge of theory, and the strengths and weaknesses of various theories. However, for the relative novice, this is an immensely valuable work. His surveys of each school of critical thought are by no means impartial, but they're always fair. And even though I have certain disagreements with Eagleton, I'm on his side against the potshots of positivists and laissez-faire enthusiasts and other such douche-tards.
This author is incredibly pretentious. I think he assumes anyone reading his book is a literary scholar. Again, I only read it because I had to for class. I think I have a fairly extensive vocabulary, but I had to read this book with a dictionary open because there were so many obscure words in it. He did not do a good job of stating things so they were understandable. And since this is supposed to be "An Introduction" you'd think he'd try to be a little more reader friendly.
