https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59830.Heaven_and_Earth
Dentro de la trilogía, y a falta de leer el último libro, solo puedo decir MARAVILLOSO. En este segundo volumen tenemos de todo: amor, magia, locura, posesiones, ira, miedo...
Ripley is a deputy on the island.
She is out spoken, tough and not happy with her magical powers.
She truly hates the witchy stuff, but she knows she has to work with the rest of the coven to save the island.
So with all this hate of witchcraft she tries to avoid the new man in town.
He is investigating the magic of the island.
I have a soft spot for geeks so I fell right in love with Mac even though he was given the unfortunate name of Mac Booke.
🤦‍♀️ Great book with magic and romance!
Pero sin duda lo que más destaco de ésta novela son sus fuertes personajes, me han encantado los protagonistas.En el primer libro tuvimos a la dulce Nell y al simpático policía Zach.
Como buen personaje estereotipado tenemos en Mac a un profesor excéntrico, torpe, despistado, siempre pierde las gafas o las llaves por cualquier lado, pero esos pequeños detalles es lo que lo hace tan adorable.MacAllister llega a Tres Hermanas acarreando todos sus chismes (que él mismo ha fabricado) para datar y constatar toda la descarga y energía paranormal que habita en la isla.
3.75 stars.I wanted to give this 3 stars because I was so annoyed with the heroine and wanted to slap her couple of times! Luckily I love the sweet and nerdy hero, he save the story for me.Also, in book #3 I found out why this heroine behaving like she was, and I can understand her more. But why we got the answer in the next book instead of in her book here? Sigh..
When you're out of town visiting your mom and you get stung by something and your leg blows up so you have to go to the ER and then you're allergic to the meds they give you you're pretty desperate for books. When your mom brings this home you don't want to hurt her feelings because it is, after all, better than no books. But not much better.
Overall, I enjoy the theme and plot of this series.
But my favorite thing about this book in particular is the character of Mac - absentminded professor with a side of hunk.
He's just so adorable the way he's always forgetting things and getting sidetracked.
And him hooking up with Ripley was an interesting combination.The book had an interesting storyline that fit well with the first book in the series.
If there was one thing I could gripe a little bit about it's that Ripley's attitude does get irritating occasionally.
Fin.Si lo mejor del primer libro, Baile en el aire, fue Nell, lo mejor de esta segunda parte, para mí, ha sido Mac. El científico de lo paranormal, torpe y encantador, inteligente y sincero, que llega a Tres Hermanas arrastrado por la curiosidad pero, sobre todo, por un instinto que no entenderá hasta llegar allí.
Su historia de amor, junto a la continuación de la trama principal de la trilogía sobre la maldición y las tres hermanas, hacen de Cielo y tierra una novela que me ha dejado con ganas de más.
Más de Zack y Nell, los protagonistas de la primera novela, que siguen apareciendo pero como secundarios.
Muy bonita la historia de Ripley. Me ha gustado saber más de la magia y el origen de la isla. Mac es muy buen personaje, con sus despistes y su mente abierta. Todo un descubrimiento. Sin duda seguiré leyendo esta trilogía. Nora Roberts llegó para quedarse. Próximamente reseña en https://rincondemarlau.blogspot.com
If you don't agree then I would suggest reading her actions when she played Mac in the gym after she thought, but didn't bother to ask, he had been snuggling up with Mia. That insults both Mac and Mia especially since no matter how bad Ripley has treated Mia, Mia has never done anything like that to hurt her.
She can't always control it so pretend that she doesn't have it which then makes it so when she gets all hot headed (which is damn often) she does something like accidentally burning Mac. Yeah, bright idea.
For someone who doesn't practice and knows can't she can't always control her powers, to do something like that is above and beyond stupid, pig headed and idiotic.
Really enjoying this series. Another great installment!
Though his name made me snicker, because Mac Booke...really?
I was charmed by Mac and his nerdy forgetfulness and absentmindedness, but it wasn't enough to win me over completely to these two.
I've been waiting impatiently for Mia's book, but now I have a feeling I'm going to be left disappointed if I don't significantly lower my expectations.To end on a completely different note: I am amused by the number of women who always conveniently seem to be wearing a bra with a front clasp in romance novels.
A decent follow up from the first.
This one is Riley's story and I really liked her guy, Mac. Roberts does studly geek guy very well and Mac was all kinds of highly-focused nerd.
I'm less enamored of Riley, but I knew that going in as I don't really like the rash tough chick driven by a deep-seated fear and vulnerability.And again, I hated the bits from the antagonists viewpoint.
Ugh.Anyway, a solid three stars with some to love and some to not like so much.A note about Steamy: On the low end of Roberts' standard.
Ripley Todd and Mac Booke. She is SO abrasive, so abrupt, so given to jumping to conclusions. He is the ultimate absent-minded professor; how would anyone leave their keys in the medicine cabinet??? But the little romance between them carries this story along from the first book, and points to the third. Nora Roberts used to write such good paranormal-lite romantic trilogies; wish she had more of those to come.
Lo ciento pero con este libro no hubo forma de que hiciera Click con los personajes. Y la trama no me gusto para nada, sentí que la principal llegaba momentos en los que era muy molesta. Realmente no disfrute este libro
He vuelto a leer un libro al azar de una trilogía y, como siempre, me quedo con este.
Con este, en que los personajes principales son ideales: ella, fuerte, capaz, aguerrida, esconde en su interior un miedo profundo, el terror a lo que realmente es y no pudo escoger, el miedo a lo que puede hacer y no saber elegir cuando llegue el momento.
Nora Roberts siempre es un acierto en cuanto a los personajes, el romance y la ambientación.
Pero no me acaba de gustar cuando se mezcla con la magia.
Ni tampoco me llama leer los otros dos libros.
Dejé este libro estancado por temas personales hace un tiempo y por fin he podido retomarlo y terminarlo. La historia de Ripley me ha gustado mucho, me he reído con sus encuentros con Mac, su forma distinta de ver las cosas y por como, poco a poco, Ripley acepta quien es realmente.Mac es un personaje que me ha gustado mucho, es un tanto peculiar y al principio parece totalmente contradictorio con Ripley pero luego combinan a la perfección.
¡Me encantó! y debo decir que hasta me gustó un poco más que el primero (que lo amé también 😂). Sin dudas necesito el 3ro. YAAAAA para conocer qué pasará con Mia.y sí, me enamoré de Mac a más no poder. Nora y sus personajes tan 😍😍😍😍
Trevlig uppföljare till En förtrollad ö. Gillade den manlige huvudkaraktären. Nördig och smart ❤
The push and pull between Ripley and Mac was so much fun.
Mac is the adorable genius scientist determined to unlock Ripley's heart.
Not that Mac was wimpy or anything; he just used his brain power first and foremost.
And really, who doesn't love a charming, hunky scientist?
What I did not like about this book and the series in general was Mia's character.
Too gorgeous.
So gorgeous that every male with a pulse drools after her no matter how committed they are to their own relationships.
Som vanligt lättläst och bra underhållning av Roberts. Gillar verkligen de karaktärer som man för följa, även om jag inte är jätteförtjust i magin som dyker upp i denna bok. Länk till recensionen: http://ewelinasbokblogg.blogspot.se/2...
Ripley haar verhaal en personage liggen mij gewoon totaal niet. Benieuwd naar Mia haar verhaal. Zij lijkt mij het meest interessant van de 3 zusters.
“Earth’s crammed with heaven… But only he who sees, takes off his shoes.” –Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Aurora LeighRating: Mature Audience: sexual content, violence, language, triggers for descriptions of domestic violence.This second book in Roberts ‘Three Sisters Island’ trilogy features Deputy Sheriff Ripley Todd as she fights against her chaotic paranormal gift, her anger at being forced to resurrect and use her powers, and her struggles with finding her happy-ever-after.
Harding then picked up the story where Remington discovered his wife’s location, attacked her and nearly killed the local Sheriff, Zack Todd.
Book 2 centers around Ripley Todd and her part in solving the curse.
I liked it as much as the first book.
I think I only stuck out to read Mia's story.
I found her to be the most compelling one even though neither of the first two books are about her.
The story revolves around Ripley.
The antagonist in this book is the reporter.
He is possessed by an evil spirit and seeks to hurt the witches.
He tracks Nell down for a story but ends up possessed.
He ends up as the third witch in the circle at some point in the story.
They found out that the evil force is after Mia.
I really enjoyed this book. It was good to be back on 3 sisters island, to catch up with the characters again. Mac was a great foil for Ripley. It was nice to see Ripley accept who she was and for her to trust not only herself but those around her. I would recommend this book and the whole series.
Romance, suspense, action-packed, witches, humor, MF. I really enjoyed reading and just loved this Three Sisters Island Trilogy. :-) Would recommend this series and a few others as I starting on the Nora Roberts journey. :-) Book 2== Ripley and Mac fight each other's affections as they try not to fall for each other. Mac is doing research into Mia and finds more about his family history as well. Great ending start book 3 tomorrow.
Me ha gustado mucho, pero esque Ripley muchas veces me sacaba de quicio, menos mal que Mac es un amor (lo quiero en mi vida) y me hacía suspirar muchas veces. Tengo muchas ganas de ver cómo acaba la trilogía y de por fin tener a Mia como protagonista.
I didn’t like this book as much as the first one. I found Ripley’s constant anger annoying and Mac too much of a cliche while their story wasn’t as engaging as Nell’s. I loved the first book so I hope the third one will be better!
3.5/5I ended up really enjoying this installment of the Three Sisters Island Trilogy, but not as much as I enjoyed the first book. It was nice to get back in this world with the characters I grew to love in the first story, and I liked focusing on Ripley. I'm looking forward to reading the final book to see how everything wraps up!
Yes, her magical series are redundant and some are much better than the others, but there’s still something to enjoy and by which to feel moved.
J’ai été moins emportée par ce time, essentiellement à cause de Ripley qui m’a tapée sur les nerfs avec son comportement permanent de garce.
