https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71784.A_New_Song
I like these books....a suppose the word "mildly" should be in there somewhere, except that would be a little misleading.
Some people think of these as "women's reads" I've said before in other reviews that I'm not sure why this would be called that...These are the story of a "mild mannered" (LOL) Episcopal priest and his "family".
I put family in quotes as his son is a young man whom he "meets" in the first book.
These novels can't necessarily be said to have "a" plot.
In the meantime other things occur from the minor to the catastrophic in the lives of the people in the novel.
Like all the other Mitford books, this is full of humor and kindness. I love to return to this series, they always give me hope and remind me to treat others with kindness and it is never to late to pray-in fact I should be praying always. The Mitford series is gentle and I don't have to think too hard or be caught up in a dramatic plot-sometimes just what I need-comfort in a book!
So what if he and cynthia are not particularly fond of sea and sand?Follows then a year of challenges, not the least of which involves being able to let go of his old parish.
But also there is satisfaction and joy in new and old friends and the serenity of their surroundings.As usual, the book enchants because of the ordinariness of the lives of its characters.
What is even better is that Father Tim is no plaster saint but subject to the same worries and failings as the rest of his neighbors and friends.
THIS is my favourite 'Mitford' book, though ironically enough, it's not even set in Mitford.I loved getting to know the folks on Whitecap Island, and how they pulled together to help each other in their extremities.
My heart rejoiced in my own salvation, and I wept as various congregants dedicated and rededicated their lives to Christ.
While this book did not *change* my heart, nor really teach me anything I do not already know, it invited me to rejoice in the truths I *DO* cherish, and that's a 5-star read in my estimation!
This is my favorite Mitford book so far.
There are no major plot stories here, although the book is full of drama and some tense moments.
I loved this book for the spiritual journey of it's charachters, including Fr Tim. I was moved to tears at times.
I haven't darkened the door of a church in years, except to attend a wedding or funeral, but found myself worshipping alonside the members of the tiny seaside church.
The call to faith was so profound I felt my heart stop.Father Tim preaches a sermon, the text of which is included in its entirety in the book.
Insightful, Warm, Engaging & Touching! A Wonderful Read! I Loved It!
Delightful. Good for the spirit. 🤗
1.1 - 1.5.2017Re-readEach time I reread this book, it speaks to me in a different way, and usually, I gain great comfort from reading this.
It was good for me to read this and be reminded that I need to turn everything, including my loneliness, over to God and let Him heal me.
The lessons to be learned here are all good ones and the reminder to trust God no matter WHAT He is telling you is just what my bruised heart needed.
Every time I read this I either learn something new OR am completely touched by the story in a way I never expected.
Whitecap is no Mitford although there are quirky and interesting characters, most notably, Morris Love, who is literally and figuratively trapped - inside the boondoggle of a house his father built, inside his deformed boy and inside his own self, but he has an amazing gift, his ability to play the oragn.
After Tim meets him accidentally when his Buick of a dog, Barnibus, goes after a squirrel and into Morris' yard, Tim becomes determined to crack the shell he has built around himself.Throw in another discarded boy and other sundry characters and reports of the doings in Mitford and a good, but utterly predictable storm and you have a decent novel, but, as I said, Whitecap is no Mitford.
It was ok. Very predictable. The ending seemed to rush everything. The hermit was a hermit through the whole book and then all of a sudden in the last few pages he was the church organist and came out of his shell. But there was no explanation. Weird.
I've been re-reading these slowly but surely the past few months, and it's such a joy to be back in Mitford. It really does feel like home.
What I thought was going to be a "hokey" down home yarn turned out to be an inspiring, delightful saga. This author has a wonderful way with words and phrases that made me feel like I wanted to remember those words and phrases to use for enjoyment with others.This is a sweet, religious, funny story about every day christians just like me. Often I found myself laughing out loud at some situations and the comments made about these events.Enjoyable read...I recommend reading this book for just a simple change of pace and sheer enjoyment.
I am even more uncertain what led me too this one with so many other choices, but it was a sweet book.
I realized that it was 5th in a series, and generally I try to read series books in order, but found this one easy enough to follow along without knowing the full back story.
Bible passages/religious overtones nicely included but not overinnuandating.
I wouldn't rule out completely my reading more from this author/in this series, but I also do not see myself actively seeking them out.
Just a nice summer read in all senses of the word.
I have read many of Karon's books over the years.
Her books are a bit like a pair of slippers or your favorite loafers.
They aren't going to dazzle like your flashy heals, but they sure do feel good on your feet.
I think that I smile throughout the story, as I read her books and this one is no exception.
There are always jokes, which cause me to smile or roll my eyes, such as the husband/wife store split down the middle, because they couldn't agree on how to run a store; and there is never any foul language or situations.
Book received in goodreads.com contest.
This installment of the Mitford Years takes place mostly outside of Mitford but there are still events in Mitford woven into the story and almost all the beloved Mitford characters show up somewhere in the book. Mostly the setting is the new place of Father Tim's temporary job as an interim priest. New characters are introduced both nice and not so nice, and we are given another interesting little town to love.
Public library copy.Another fabulous read by this author. This was amazing, that she was able to include all the old parishioners and the new parishioners in the same book! My favorites: the lady in the Mitford nursing home who sings with Father Tim over the phone .. Timothy and Cynthia's new neighbor .. and, of course, Dooley. There was an awful lot going on in this book .. extremely packed with activity and crises. Love this series!
The Mitford Series is fabulous. Events in the books can be subtle - which is why I think some reviewers call them mild - but that doesn't mean they are not heart breaking or tragic. Jan Karon stirs the reader's emotional intelligence and compassion to create depth and a very satisfying read. I adore these books.
I have really enjoyed the previous Mitford series books but this one was just okay. This is the first book in the series that if you hadn't read the previous books you would really be missing out on who was who when previous characters are brought up. In the previous books I thought the characters were developed until you got to know them. The ones in this book, not so much.
I read a few chapters, but never could get into this book. It went on and on about their preparation to leave Mitford and didn't resolve early on the kids that they helped out. The backwoods language of some of the characters made it difficult to get through.
So far this book is my favorite of the Mitford series. A new view of a new place - I like variety and a change of scenery and this book appeals to that love. Also it is refreshing to read a different view of life amid today's constant strife that deals with strife in a positive way.
I love all the Mitford Series books by Jan Karon, and I especially love listening to them. If you want a light reading, feel good sort of book then I really recommend this series. Normally I avoid long series of books, but this is my exception.
Great series! Similar to "Calgon, take me away." *sigh*
Another great installment from the Mitford Series. This series has been my charming, easy summer read. I don't think I'll finish them before summer is over...
Sometimes I just need to read something positive and encouraging ... like this series ...
Once again these books have me laughing, crying, on the edge of my seat, and earnestly desiring to draw closer to the Throne of Grace. I love this series!
Others believe that while such a relationship may be possible, it's not for them—why would God want to bother with them, except from a very great distance?
'Yet, this simple prayer makes it possible for you to know Him not only as Savior and Lord, but as a friend...' 'In the storms of your life, do you long for the consolation of His nearness and His friendship?
Father Tim has retired and he has been assigned to serve as an interim priest in a small parish in the small island of Whitecap.
After Tim meets him accidentally when his Buick of a dog, Barnibus, goes after a squirrel and into Morris' yard, Tim becomes determined to crack the shell he has built around himself.Throw in another discarded boy and other sundry characters and reports of the doings in Mitford and a good, but utterly predictable storm and you have a decent novel, but, as I said, Whitecap is no Mitford.
So that when the opportunity comes to spend at least a year as an interim priest for a small parish on Whitecap Island in Pimlico Sound, he grasps at the opportunity eagerly.
I am in the process of re-reading all the Mitford books written by Jan Karon.
The book A New Song is the 5th book in the series and finds Father Tim and Cynthia serving as interim pastor on Whitecap Island.
Leaving Mitford behinds does not mean that the book does not have a quaint setting, Whitecap is just as unique.
Whitecap has just as many of these as Mitford does.
it even has new problems for Father Tim and Cynthia to solve.
I think what I enjoyed the most about this particular installment was the melding of Mitford and Whitecap Island.
It's always nice to read about people caring about each other, being good to each other, and hoping the best for each other.I've been re-reading this series after my mom, but I got to this one first.
Favorite quotes:"Seems like I can trust Him with everything but a teenager.""That's what you've got t' trust 'im with th' most, if you ask me.""Pour out thy broken heart at His feet: let thy soul flow over in His presence, and I tell thee He cannot cast thee away." - Charles Spugeon"Sometimes we do good and it turns out badly.
Be at peace then, put aside all anxious thoughts and imaginations, and say continually, 'The Lord is my strength and my shield; my heart has trusted in Him and I am helped.
We have definitely fallen in love with another series.
Seems we have been introduced to many new friends in Mitford and now several more in White Chapel.
Once again we are absolutely delighted by "The Mitford Years" series by Jan Karon as we enjoyed Fr. Tim and Cynthia's adventure to White Chapel.
Also, it was a little hard initially to imagine a new setting and new characters but Karon did a great job of bringing both worlds together while also processing the feelings of loss through Fr. Tim, Cynthia and the other people of Mitford.
