https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161121.My_Own_Country
My Own Country: A Doctor's Story is Abraham Verghese's (author of the fictional Cutting for Stone) moving account of his years as a doctor in Tennessee, specializing in working with patients with AIDS.
And it is only as his patients begin to die that he fully accepts the horror of AIDS and his helplessness in the face of it.I found the stories fascinating and moving and was drawn to Verghese-I felt I came to know and care about him.
The writing is excellent and I will read his well-received Cutting for Stone soon.This book captures a time and trauma that are well worth thinking about.
Am I a book snob?Because I'm finding that as I read a book, like this one, I keep asking myself why someone would waste so many words to say, essentially, nothing that sheds light on the story.Why do I need to know every time the author got in his car to go somewhere, that he turned right on such and such street, then left onto that highway, and then there was a bend in the road...For real?
I give it two stars because I really liked it in the beginning, waited for the story to 'come around' in the middle, and read to the end only because I didn't want to leave another book unfinished.
I'm not sure if it was my very favorite, but it was in the top two or three, for sure.Although Cutting for Stone was fiction, My Own Country is a memoir, focusing on the years when Verghese, born in Africa to Indian parents, is a young infectious diseases doctor in rural Eastern Tennessee, right at the beginning of the AIDS epidemic.
So I think it's interesting for him to write about some of the good years of their marriage (both of their sons are born during the Tennessee years) from the perspective of someone who is newly divorced.
Dr Verghese - Eloquent, extraordinarily compassionate, likeable and highly intelligent person.
As an Infectious Diseases specialist in the 1980's Dr Abraham             Verghese became the go-to guy for all things HIV/AIDS in Johnson City, Tennessee and surrounding regions.
In the HIV/AIDS story there are so many elements and Dr Verghese captured all of them in a heartwarming and at times heartbreaking manner.
He forced readers to consider their own attitudes by contemplating the concept of guilt versus innocence (For example did the words "innocent victim" come to mind when I mentioned the patients infected by blood transfusion?).
This book pretty much fits the bill for my absolute favorite type of reading: passionate people writing beautifully about whatever they care most about and the way in which they are transformed by that caring.
Also I love a good medical memoir so I hit the jackpot with this one.I looked for this book after reading Verghese's  Cutting for Stone  recently.
That novel was brilliant and, as I didn't want it to end, I went looking for more of Verghese's writing.
The novel was lovely and engaging, but the real life memoir was no less so.
In the 1980's when HIV was spreading around the country a young doctor by the name of Abraham Verghese started his practice in a community in Tennessee.
When he came to Johnson City, TN and I am quoting the blurb on the back of the book.
. ."as a doctor unique in his abilities; as an outsider who could talk to people suspicious of local practitioners; above all as a writer of grace and compassion who saw that what was happening in this conservative community was both a medical and spiritual emergency".
I learned so much from this book.
Grace and compassion.
I have seen how life speeds up and heightens in climates of extreme pain and emotion.
But it is also hard to pull away from the extreme, from life lived far from mundane conversation.
As I pick them up one by one, I realize that all I had to offer Luther was the ritual of the examination, this dance of a Western shaman.
Now the dance is over, and the beeps and blips of monitors register again, as does the bored voice of an operator on the overhead speaker summoning someone stat."
My Own Country, a memoir by Abraham Verghese, uniquely describes the experience of an immigrant physician with the culture of Appalachia as he confronts the devastating medical and personal consequences of AIDS as AIDS patients sought his care as an infectious disease specialist in the 1980's.
They came back home where their families struggled with their suffering, their lifestyle choices, and their dying.The author, a physician raised in Ethiopia by Indian parents, adopts Tennessee as his "own country," but finds that his foreigness and his willingness to accept gay patients raises a barrier to his acceptance by the local culture.
And yet, gut wrenching as this all was, the bigger impression made on me was how Verghese, his patients and the medical staff grew stronger throughout the book.
I think it is important to remember how big an impact denial and bigotry can have on our response to a crisis.The book also reminded me of my experiences working on AIDs in the pharmaceutical industry.
The data we entered on the drug contained information on the sexual habits of the AIDs patients.
By the end of the study the entry staff were crying when the patients died.
This is a beautiful book, full of caring and empathy.While I work on my review, please read as many of my highlights/notes as you are able.
A specialist in infectious diseases, Verghese did not anticipate that his life in rural Johnson City, Tennessee would soon be consumed by AIDS.
At a time of great scientific investment and medical advances, it was also believed that a cure was right around the corner.When HIV/AIDS patients began trickling into Verghese's practice, very little was known about the disease and treatment was essentially nonexistent.
As the de facto AIDS expert of Johnson City, Verghese’s work soon became all consuming.
At a time when the medical community didn’t know how HIV was spread (or even what it was), Verghese dove in and provided intensely personal care.
(In the interest of full disclosure, I should say that I am a Registered Nurse who has been dealing with HIV patients intermittently for 20 years, and exclusively for the last 10).Verghese has fallen into this trap, that of the HIV provider as somehow outside the mainstream, isolated and therefore both special and persecuted, taking onto himself burdens impossible for any one man to bear alone, all in the name of serving his clients.
But as a story of HIV, it is both self-serving and dishonest; Verghese seems to have little stomach for self-examination or self-criticism, only for justification and self-indulgence.
The author of this book is an Indian doctor, working at a hospital in Johnson city, Tennessee, at the start of the AIDS epidemic.
As an African-born Indian, happily Americanized, he finds in the social isolation of his patients something of his own status as an "outsider." We also see the demands that professional commitments can make on marriage and parenting.An outgoing and obviously dedicated, self-sacrificing physician, the author is slowly overcome by the growing solitude of his professional and personal journey and the weariness of battling a disease with no cure.
I read this book immediately after finishing "Cutting For Stone" because I was so impressed with Verghese's writing and by the man too.Reading "My Own Country" you can see clearly how much Verghese's own life story informed the story of his novel - particularly the life of an immigrant doctor in the second or third tier hospitals and rural areas of the United States.
I am looking forward to eventually reading Verghese's third book.
I can highly recommend the two books I have read by this author.
I wasn't expecting much literary prowess from a book I was required to read for medical school, but was pleasantly surprised by Dr. Verghese's seminal account of treating AIDs patients in 1980s rural Tennessee.
His accounts delve into so many of the nuanced issues surrounding medicine: patient-doctor relationships, cultural values, work-life balance, but what makes him a good writer (and no doubt a good physician as well) is his painstaking attention to detail.
Above all, one can sense the love he has for his patients.
As a nascent medical student, Verghese's account serves as an inspiration as I begin my own career in medicine.
Excellent narrative of a young doctor who -- by virture of his infectious diseases specialty, his "foreign-ness" and his deep and utter compassion for others--becomes the "AIDS expert" in a small rural setting of East Tennessee in the mid-1980s, when the number of HIV-infected patients begins to rise.
Though it's a nonfiction account, it reads like a novel while providing a fascinating and unflinching look at how AIDS affected the gay community, how it made its way from the urban centers into the rural communities -- and how the American public responded to the public health crisis.
I loved that Verghese loved his small, southern town, that his best friend was a red-neck gas station owner, that he considered it “his country.” Another piece of the book that was important for me was the actual medical information – how he approached each patient and what the procedures were like and what the side effects of drugs might be.
I am facing the death of my husband within the next 6 -12 months and my husband and I have talked a lot about how we want to die and so many of the issues are brought home in Verghese’s descriptions.
Dr. Verghese earned four of my stars for his fictional Cutting for Stone, but I only offer three for this memoir.
Verghese shares many vignettes of the HIV patients he managed and the resistance and fear often encountered in the community.The story is historically interesting, as HIV/AIDs is discovered in urban centers and migrates silently to small-town America.
Certainly Verghese performed an enormous service to the Johnson City, TN area in accepting patients otherwise shunned and educating the community concerning the illness.
This may be my problem, because Dr. Verghese is an excellent writer and apparently, a compassionate and gifted physician.
I read this book after reading "Cutting for Stone;" I wanted to know more about the author who had penned one of my favorite books and what his real life was like.
What I found was an intriguing story of what it is like to be an infectious disease doctor treating patients for which there is no known cure.
How the doctor can tell just by shaking your hand what kind of shape your thyroid might be in.
Of course, I'm now suspicious of any doctor who doesn't shake my hand on the way in to the exam room.
This is the story of the author's work with AIDS patients in eastern Tennessee in the 1980's. It was a horrifying time, when there were no treatments (and then finally there was AZT) and when family, friends, clergy, and medical professionals shunned HIV positive people and people with AIDS. The author describes some of his patients, his relationship with them, and how being "the AIDS doctor" impacted his personal and professional life. It was a good and difficult read.
Verghese is amazing...great writer, albeit a little detail overloaded--sometimes you get the feeling he is practicing his writing. Be that as it may, he is clearly a caring doctor on the cusp of what will become the AIDS epidemic of our time. Takes place in Tennessee where the first cases of AIDS reach his rural community, and the sense of place is as real as the people he treats. Insightful, sympathetic and exhausting all at once.
The way Verghese is honest about his initial naiveté is endearing, and he shows the same kind of honesty throughout the book, a quality that I find rare in memoirs.He talks initially about his arrival in Johnson City, Tennessee—not a likely hotbed for AIDS—and the kind of people he found there.
She didn’t like the way he became obsessed with the disease, and it took over his life.When he began his stay there had not actually been an AIDS patient at the hospital where he worked.
I just finished reading MY OWN COUNTRY: A DOCTOR'S STORY by Abraham Verghese.
I filled up three postits while reading this book--very unusual for me.
These quotations strike me as good examples of Verghese's writing style: his sweetness, his gentleness, his humor, his brilliant and insightful ways of looking at the world in which he found himself:page 117 -- The doctor said to the patient, "I don't approve of your lifestyle and what it represents.
Shook me up.I highly recommend MY OWN COUNTRY: A DOCTOR'S STORY, by Abraham Verghese.
After reading and loving Cutting for Stone, I had high expectations for this earlier Verghese book.
CFS was a novel and this book is a memoir; also CFS was written after My Own Country and Verghese has more experience and has become a better and a more mature writer.The problem with this book is that it suffers from a need to edit.
Perhaps the best parts of the book were not the repetitive tales of the AIDS sufferers, but those about Verghese himself.
I read Cutting for Stone by this same author several years ago...
I had heard about this memoir and several of my friends recommended it...
but too little time...
too many books ..and I tend to read more fiction than non fiction...
Book Club picked this to read and I started it...
It is an amazing book.
He writes so beautifully about his thinking and his feelings...
and about his patients.....
I could not put the book down for the last few days...
the years covered are the beginnings of the epidemic...
I highly recommend this book.
4.50 starsAbraham Verghese has accomplished something wonderful in this very personal account of his experiences with the first AIDS patients that he treated as an infectious disease physician in eastern Tennessee in the mid 1980's.
He bares his own soul about how difficult it was to see his patients sicken and die, about how devastating it was for them, their families, and himself to have to face the reality that there was no cure.
I was very touched by his honesty about his own emotions and the way he honored his patients with his sincere feelings of loss for their passing.
This is one of the most compassionate and enlightening books I have read. It's a memoir of Dr. Verghese's years spent in rural Tennessee as an internist and infectious disease Doctor during the height of the AIDS epidemic. It is touching and honest. The stories of his patients are written with such insight and care ... it made me feel as if I knew each of them as well as he did. This is the same author of one of my favorite novels of all time - Cutting For Stone. Highly recommend this memoir!
An awesome story of his time learning about treating AIDS at the beginning of the epidemic in a small town. I thought it was an interesting story, both the author's experiences, and the stories of his patients that he also chronicles. It's definitely dated (published early-mid 1990's), but I think it tells important stories. There are a lot more stories about the AIDS epidemic in the big cities, so I'm glad this is out there too.
This was such a clear story. It was spectacular to read through the thoughts of a physician... How he thinks, reacts, and connects with patients. A really nice story of the challenge and isolation of HIV, as well. And this challenge was nicely framed against the challenge if being an outsider in a community. This will stay on my bookshelf... Though that is really selfish because I want to share it with so many people.
Although this is Abraham Verghese's first book, I read this after his book "Cutting for Stone", which I loved! This book is written as if it is a novel and is very lyrical. At times, I felt there was a lot that could have been eliminated in his descriptions. You really get to know his patients and empathize with what he faced in working with his patients in Johnson City, Tennessee. Well-written and informative.
