https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225038.Half_Magic
childhood fav <3
I don't know if I just figured ALL books were set there, and that's why the street names were so familiar or if I was just extraordinarily clueless.
And Merlin, with his entirely lovely speech, made me cry a little.To wit: '"But what about the good deed I wished?" said Katharine.
"None of the ones I tried worked out!""My child," said Merlin, and his smile was very kind now, "you have done your good deed.
You have brought me that word, and now I can finish my work in peace, and know that I have done well.
And if that's not a good deed, I should like to know what is..."'
"It seems a shame," said Jane, "that no one's going to know about our adventures.
They would make such a good book.
You don't mean...""I certainly do!" said Jane.
"We just have to wish for it, and the Charm will take care of the rest.
But we need to wish very carefully.
Now, what kind of book do we want it to be?""I want it to be like one of E.
Nesbit's books!" said Katherine.
if the Charm makes the book like one of hers...
That would be very wrong.""We could put in an Acknowledgement," said Mark.
There isn't even a feasible way to avoid this part - it's interwoven in the story in such a way that you can't simply say "Look, this is a part that I feel is inappropriate, we're not reading it today" and skip to the next part.Now, I know, somebody is going to pop up and say "But you can't judge books from 60 years ago according to OUR standards today!" Fair enough.
(I disagree with the last, but that's your choice.)Other than that one thing, this is a very good book.
Edward Eager's Half Magic was 1 of my favorite comfort books as a kid and I can still quote from it.
The children realise this soon enough and word their wishes so that they can get all of what they want, and start off on a set of exciting adventures which take them to different places and times.
But while their wishes do come true, they find that the outcome may not be quite what they were looking for, and they are not always in the right frame of mind to make a carefully worded wish each time.
On the other hand, the charm itself turns out to be more magical than they realise working for them certain magic they hadn’t wished for (or even thought of) which bring them much happiness in the long run.
One day, while on their way to the library, the children find an old, worn nickel.After a few accidental mis-wishes and much discussion, the kids realize that it’s the coin they found that’s causing the magic–well, a little magic.
Most of them take place over the course of a few warm days, and they’ll all bring you back to the time when lightning bugs were only a fraction of your summer magic.Read if:You’re looking for the most appealing way possible to spend an afternoon with fractions.You can’t find anyone to play Ghost in the Graveyard with.You want a proper fairy tale.Disclaimer: I got this book and many others from my family’s close friend, Jeri.
I read the first 2 chapters a day or two ago and was intrigued.
Today I picked it up again and read the third chapter.
So, I finished it today.This is, apparently, a children's book.
Back in the day, children were considerably more well-read.
In fact, I would not be surprised if there were things in this book that I didn't catch.The pacing was good - at times it was slow and nothing particular seemed to happen (which was as it should be - after all, the children are having a dreadfully boring summer at first), but at other times!

The Book That Made Me Fall In Love With Reading I don't even know what to say about this book.
As an adult I catch little literary references that I missed when I was young, and that adds to my love of this book (more so than the others in the series).I was an only child until I was 10, so before that, reading about this family of brothers and sisters gave me a bit of a pang.
This was my favourite book to read during the summer (followed closely by 
oh, one of my all time favorites. i LOVE when they wish the cat could talk and since it is half-magic, the cat's every other word is "meow."i bought this (and the rest of the series) for my niece for christmas a couple of years ago, and i can't wait until my daughters are old enough to read it.
The novel is about four siblings finding a magic coin which can grant their wishes,but only half of it.
However,having a magic in life isn't that easy and the wishes must be carefully uttered,otherwise the summer adventures will turn into more than just adventures.
Gradually the siblings have to learn to control the magic in their lives while the magic will transform them too.The book has this "The Little Peppers" and "The Little Women" vibe in the narrative.
Not a fan of such writing style but this book is great for children stepping into the world of literature.
This is the first of Eager's magic books.
Nesbit and his books pay homage to her.
A group of siblings finds a coin that grants wishes, but they realize quickly that they only get half what they wish for.
Some sexism, as it was written in the 50's about the 20's, but other than that, nice family entertainment.
He laughed so hard at the family cat being able to half talk that we had to stop so he could run downstairs to pee.
Edward Eager never fails to satisfy, especially if you like E.
Nesbit.
Five children find a silver medallion, and discover that it grants wishes - but only half-way! Hilarity ensues. My favorite part is when they idly wish the cat could talk. And then, it sort of CAN talk, in kitty fashion. Hee!This is my favorite book by Eager, with lots of wit and humor. A classic of children's literature, but not in a stuffy way.
Over the weekend, I read a lovely feature in Rain Taxi on Edward Eager's Magic series, which inspired me to start rereading them in ebook from my local library system. I'm finding ebook to be an excellent format for these, because it means I'll actually look up definitions - and Eager wasn't afraid of flexing his vocabulary.
Reading this aloud to Beanie (7 yrs). She adores it, as did her sisters before her. Eager cracks me up: very wry humor and realistic characterizations—in a fantasy where unlikely events are occurring. It's a delicious combination.Written in the spirit of E. Nesbit's books, this is the tale of four siblings who find a magical charm that grants wishes—sort of. It only grants *half* a wish, which causes all sorts of confusion and misadventure.
Nesbit, just as Lewis did, only Eager gives credit where it's due, working his lovely tribute right into the fabric of the story.What I love most about this book is the beginning, in which we find a description of the long summer break, from the perspective of the children.The summer was a fine thing, particularly when you were at the beginning of it, looking ahead into it.
Though it could easily be made into a movie, this is surely a story that deserves to be read.
the sisters (even the oldest) are pretty clueless; the mother's "heart's desire" is to be married and stay at home), and the thing that made me real uncomfortable was the weird racism-- the way the "evil Arab" gets depicted (both the writing and the drawing!) is not ok...not to mention the way the kids talk to him when they first see him...I read this for class and my prof made the point that she'd only recommend this to children if they had a parent or teacher who could explain the context in which the book was written (it was written in 1954) and how some of the things I mentioned are messed up..
Loved this book in elementary school. This is my favorite book in the series and the one I remember best also. I love the “half magic” concept. Charming adventure story. Like the kids. Love the magic, especially the way it works in this book. Really imaginative.
Mnogo sam volela ovu knjigu kao klinka, a jednako se dopala i mom sinu. Brza, uzbudljiva, duhovita i nadasve podsticajna za samostalne maštarije čitalaca. Četvoro dece nalazi novčić koji ispunjava želje, ali samo polovično, uz pomoć te polučarolije dožive razne avanture i usput prihvate promenu u sopstvenoj porodici.
3.5. A CLASSIC.
Edward Eager was my very first "favorite" author.
I remember reading "Half Magic" and feeling a light turn on in my mind; my imagination was stimulated like never before.
Basically, this is the story of four children, in 1920s America, who come upon a magical coin that is so old only half of its magic is left.
It's a shame that so little is known about Edward Eager.
I've searched all over the internet, but almost nothing is known of his life beyond the fact that he was inspired by the legendary childrens' writer E.
This is about four siblings who find a magic charm that can fulfill wishes.
I did not like the way he was portrayed, yet at the same time we have to remember that this was written in the nineteen-fifties.
It is unfortunate that this chapter is part of the book, but oh well....
Other than that I thought it was a cute book.
I did like how this book refers to other famous books, particularly Nesbit's books.
It helps to have read at least one Nesbit book before reading "Half Magic." You will definitely see where Eager got his inspiration.
When I was a child I read a book from the library.
I sat and read in my room from cover to cover and when I got to the end I distinctly remember feeling as if I had just woken up from a dream.
I was so engrossed in the story I felt like I had been with the children on their adventures and I was so sad it was over.But it wasn't.
I spent the rest of my life like a drug addict searching for that same great high and it has been the best adventure ever.
All thanks to Edward Eager and his amazing book.
Half Magic is a story about some kids who are having a very boring summer. That changes when they find a strange coin that gives you wishes you ask for. But soon they discover it gives them half only half what they ask for. So they have to ask for two x what they want. A great book to read any day!
A delightful old-fashioned adventure. Reminded me of an E. Nesbit book! Both the feel of family drama as well as magic, I'm shocked that I haven't read Edward Eager before now. As a kid I would have been all over this book! As an adult I'm excited to read more!
If you've ever had a moral pointed at you, you will know that it is not a completely pleasant feeling.
Fun book, my children loved it!
Delightful! It reminded me a bit of E Nesbit’s Five Children and It but in an American setting. I loved the relationship between the siblings and the way their wishes go awry.
This was a very fun book about four children who find a magic coin that grants wishes by halves.
Lots of planned and unplanned wishes follow.
All the wishing was entertaining, but I also like that the book delved deeper into losing a parent and gaining a stepparent without ever feeling too heavy.
So many books and TV shows today make adults look stupid and like the kids know everything.
This book had several adult characters who were portrayed as intelligent and often knowing more than the children.
This didn’t lessen the likability of the children at all and was a refreshing change.
Really what she wanted was attention.So we picked up a "Half Magic".A book I had never read before and had no idea what to expect.2 hours later I refused to read another word until we'd at least had some lunch.You try reading out loud for a solid two hours.
Sure, she wriggled and squirmed, but she also asked questions and predicted.And weeks later she recalls the book during everyday conversation and discusses the idea of a "half wish" with her sister (who is jealous because we read when she was not around)."Half Magic" has sunk itself into her psyche and her play.It has become a part of her, as all good books should.A lovely entree to fantasy literature, and a teaser to books in her future.Book ReferencesThroughout the text, the children refer to other books.
