https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11002.Eight_Men_Out
The Chicago White Sox were the best team in baseball; sadly, and here’s the rub, they weren’t paid as such.
Thanks for everything and clean out your locker on your way out.” “You don’t like what you’re being paid, well, you not only can’t play baseball for us, we’ll make sure you’ll never earn a living at this game playing for anyone else!”So before the 1919 World Series began, when the White Sox were about to clinch the pennant, disgruntled White Sox players approached gamblers with the idea of throwing the World Series for money.
He paints a tapestry containing The Godfather, Part II, W.P. Kinsella's Shoeless Joe, Arnold Rothstein, the gambler who performed the "brilliant and audacious Job" of fixing the 1919 World Series; of the American way of life, of human drama at its best; Bill James essay on game fixing during the teens and twenties; the way players such as Ty Cobb, Tris Speaker, and Smokey Joe Wood were entangled by rumor and innuendo, if never by concrete evidence of fact; but after all these famous players were accused in one way or another, "no plot was so sensational, no resolution so fierce as the Black Sox Scandal.
Excellent account of the famed "Black Sox". Too bad that a few bad apples spoiled the game for some excellent athletes forever.
Much like the current PED Scandal, the infamous Black Sox Scandal of 1919 shocked and disillusioned fans of the sport nearly a century ago.
Eliot Asinof’s Eight Men Out is an intriguing look at the White Sox 1919 World Series scandal, which involved the “fixing” of the World Series, including all events leading up to it as well as its crushing effect on the players and the sport.
When did people start to suspect the fix was on?
Did anyone live happily ever after?Not only does Mr. Asinof illuminate this one sad incident in the great sport of baseball, he places it evocatively in an era when the game was transitioning from a sandlot pastime played by talented but naive amateurs and run by ruthless businessmen to a professional sport played by trained pros and governed by rules enacted to eradicate the exploitation of the early years.Asinof examines the series literally pitch by pitch, hit by hit, to show how the games were cleverly thrown.
Love baseball and loved this book. If you like baseball then this is the book for you.
But the fans of the Chicago White Sox during the 1919 fix were not so lucky.
The struggles and steps taken by the players and gamblers during the fix was packed into this intriguing book by Eliot Asinof.
He then isolated eight underpaid Chicago White Sox players who kindly agreed to throwing the world series for double then what they made all year.
During game one Eddie Cicotte pitched and did not listen to his catcher who was not in on the fix and he only threw fastballs and was not throwing strikes.
Closer to 4.5 but still incredible. Having loved "Shoeless Joe"/Field Of Dreams and barely getting through the movie version of Eight Men Out when I was much to young to appreciate it, I was very surprised about how little I knew of the machinations of the Black Sox scandal. This book is essential baseball reading.
Eight Men Out (the movie) was one of my favorite baseball movies, so I thought I'd listen to the audio book.
The throwing of a world series back in 1919 would be like a team throwing the Super Bowl now.
It was the national past time and it was the biggest sporting event in the country, bar none.After reading the book, it's still hard to figure out if Joe Jackson was clean or dirty or just naive.
The White Sox were one of the greatest teams in history and it's a shame what happened.
Short, sweet and simple. Loved the book, intrigued by the whole Black Sox scandal of 1919.LET JOE INTO THE HALL OF FAME, COMM MANFRED !!!
Very detailed, but incredibly interesting for this historian and baseball enthusiast.
Asinof painstakingly recreated the most complete tale yet of the 1919 World Series, going well beyond the initial newspaper accounts and common narratives and attempts to fill in much of the personal movements of each party involved, which once was thought impossible due to the the code of silence held by both the gamblers and players involved.
After reading through the pages of why each player did what they did and how the dirty world of the big-time gamblers (and owners and executives, for that matter) operated in this specific event, the reader can only help but feel at least a little pity, if not empathy, for the eight men banned from professional baseball for life.
Reading this book is a good way to understand how truly appalling some Americans' behavior was in the name of Capitalism before the Depression. Sometimes the prose gets a little purple and I wish Asinof were more detailed about citing his information, but whatever because it's history meets baseball and I'm 100% here for it. The best part for me was the middle section in which Asinof reconstructs the highlights of the actual games of the 1919 Series, but that's probably because it's February and I miss baseball.
This was a very good, very informative book. I feel really sorry for the ballplayers. They threw the World Series and were the best players of the time. Now history just remembers them as cheaters. They were betrayed by the gamblers and at the end just wanted to clear their names. Very sad ending. Highly recommended.
Really enjoyed this book! It was a very easy read, the writing was superb and it all just flowed so smoothly. Every baseball fan should read this book.
But when you learn the extenuating circumstances regarding their meager pay and treatment by Charles Comiskey, it’s hard to not feel like the punishment doesn’t fit the crime, compounded by the fact that the gamblers involved in the fix got off scot-free, in part due to assistance by Comiskey himself.
Eight Men Out has a lot of moving parts and plenty of material to cover (lots of people, two different fixing operations, an entire World Series, an investigation, and multiple trials/court actions) but the chapters still managed to fly by.
I particularly appreciated that Asinof managed to keep the chapters of the book about the World Series contained and to the point.
If this is middle-age, then, well, I love it.So, to the book.Eight Men Out tells the true story of eight players from the great Chicago White Sox team of 1919 who were thrown out of baseball forever - some of the players like Joe Jackson and Buck Weaver being at the peak of their talent - for allegedly conspiring to throw the World Series by taking bribes from gamblers.
This is a book that was written and made for a person who truly understands the concepts of baseball and money as one.
This book gives great detailed descriptions of the events that happened during the 1919 World Series and the scandal involved.
If you don't know baseball very well and don't understand the finances behind it, this may be a tough book to read.
It was not exact diologue between the characters, obviously, because there is no way to know exactly what people are saying to eachother at that time.
I think that the purpose of the author to write this book was to inform sports readers or anyone about the 1919 Chicago Black Sox and how eight of the players tried to fix the World Series for 100,000 dollars.
I think the author was also trying to say that anyone can fall under peer pressure because these players were a sure win in the World Series but they cared more about the money because they dint feel they were getting payed enough.
The story was wrote about the 1919 baseball team and what happened when they tried to throw the World Series.
Anyone who is a student of baseball history would do well to read Eliot Asinof's Eight Men Out, a highly-detailed account of the infamous Chicago 'Black Sox' and the throwing of the 1919 World Series.This is a very-layered book that describes in great detail the events that led up to the fix.
Other peripheral characters and topics come under scrutiny, such as the tension between the players and their tight-wad owner Charles Comiskey, the big-money gamblers, the baseball executives, the legal wrangling, and the aftermath of the entire incident.This makes for an interesting period piece.
Second, it seems the Black Sox was a shock to the people of the United States who couldn’t believe baseball was corrupt; I lived through another such shock with Watergate – we may have known that politics was corrupt but having it writ so large as it was in the Watergate trials was earthshaking to some of us who had naïve faith in human goodness at all levels.
And, the same thing that happened in the Black Sox case, in Watergate continues to happen today: the really bad guys – the gamblers, the politician, the people with money – for the most part get away with everything.
The category for which I read it was 'a book published the year you were born'.
As a long-time lover of history and more recent baseball fan, I was intrigued by this title.
The colorful, well-developed characters as well as actual headlines and interspersed quotes from various authors fed my hunger to keep reading.
Although the book was good, a large part of me is disappointed that the great American pastime is nowhere near as pure as many Americans or fans would like to believe --- not now, not ever--- nor is the American justice system.
That won't stop me from enjoying history, baseball, or books.
The author of Eight Men Out died last week and I heard of him and the book on a public radio show, Its only a game.
The book is wonderful - there is a wonderful flavor of 1919, of sitting in the ballpark, of gamblers and the obsession that I've come to recognize in the blues guitarist and the baseball fan.
The book has the right mix of history, personality and reporting on a black mark in baseball history.
An excellent book all the way through - and possibly one of the saddest stories I've read.

The reserve clause bound a player to one team for life.
The reserve clause treated players like indentured servants, with greedy owners paying them nowhere near what they were worth.
The fallout from the scandel, even though the players were acquitted of criminal charges(thanks to a mysterious dissapperance of the evidence)cut no ice with commissioner Kennesaw Mountain Landis, the players were banned from baseball for life.An absorbing, fascinating look at the early years of baseball, the gamblers who ran riot with cash, buying every player they could bribe.
Eight Men Out was not the best sports book I've read, but it's a fair book to read.
The book details the 1919 Chicago White Sox baseball team, as eight of the players on the team are involved in a scandal.
In the end, the Reds do win the World Series, but because the eight Sox players involved in the "Black Sox scandal" intentionally played bad, thus making the Cincinatti Reds the champs in 1919.
the book details the black sox scandal and the aftermath.Fair book overall to read.
Eight Men Out wasn't the best sports book Ive read.
I have always been intrigued by the legendary story of Shoeless Joe Jackson and how the 1919 World Series was thrown by 8 players.
Not only does the book reveal how stingy owner Charles Comiskey was, paying his players far less than other teams' players were paid as well as breaking promises to them, it paints the picture of the many layers of gambling corruption.
While what the players did was obviously wrong, I couldn't help liking them.
It is a bit hard to keep up with who is who regarding all those involved on the gambling side but it all comes together at the end.

A perfect book.
Much more then a baseball book---a history of an amazing labor dispute that ended with the throwing of the 1919 World Series.
Arnold Rothstein, the NYC gambler who bankrolled the fix (immortalized in the Great Gatsby: No he's a gambler.
Then Gatsby hesitated and added cooly, He's the man who fixed the World Series back in 1919.), considered the players "rubes", which to him meant "a talented guy who consented to work for peanuts." There is no better expression of how a boss views his underlings.
Wow. I knew little about the Black Sox aside from watching "Field of Dreams" and the repeated phrase of "Say it ain't so, Joe." This book gives a broad scope of the key people involved with the 1919 World Series. Not a heart warming book by any means; after all it is all about corruption--though it is fascinating.Wondering why Asinof doesn't list his sources?
