https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40312.The_Rocky_Road_to_Romance
It is the fourth book in the Elsie Hawkins series, on whom, Evanovich says, Grandma Mazur was modelled.
Fans of the Plum series will be interested to know that in this book, the prototype for Bob the Dog makes an appearance.When the traffic reporter on station WZZZ breaks his leg, Daisy Adams asks her hunky boss, Steve Crow, if she can have the job.
This final Elsie Hawkins instalment features the prototypes for Grandma Mazur, Uncle Sandor’s powder-blue Buick, the gun in the handbag and Bob the dog.
I picked this oldie out of the bag of audios rattling around in my hatch because I wanted something fluff filled for my latest car read and that’s exactly what I got.
They’re fun while you’re listening but pretty forgettable once finished.This version is narrated by C.J. Critt who always does such a professional job with Evanovich’s quirky characters.
Daisy has a daily 5 minute spot on the station because she’s kind of popular after writing a book on making dog treats.
It’s fun but at times felt like it was trying a little too hard to be cutesy and it wasn’t exactly original in any way.
I made it to page THIRTY NINE before I hurled the book at the wall as hard as I could.
- Our female lead is a PhD student (studying geriatric psychology) who works five jobs to support herself and her 14 year old brother, who's currently living with her.
He comes across as a fucking creeper.- This quote: "She had a soft spot for dogs and old people.
Second of all, did Evanovich seriously just compare minorities to dogs?!?!
And this quote was my breaking point, where I rage-quit and hurled the book at the wall: "He had mixed feelings about Daisy's celebrity status.
I’ve always loved Evanovich and will continue to do so. This wasn’t my favorite by her but I still enjoyed it very much! Even as book 4 in a series i haven’t read it stood alone perfectly. The character the series is about (Elsie) played just a supporting role which I appreciated.
Suspension of belief is one thing, overdoing a fairy tale that makes me uncomfortable in the first place is a whole other.
That said, the characters in this tale were as equally endearing as Evanovich's Plum series regulars.
In reading the excerpt from another Evanovich love story I am not convinced that other sans-Plum books will be as delightful as this one, but I'm willing to give it a shot.
What I would love to see come from this book is a series with Elsie and Daisy as the central characters, with Daisy returning as a reporter and Elsie her bodyguard.
When I first stared reading romance novels several years ago, I happened to pick up a few of the newly rereleased early works of Janet Evanovich.
None of the characters, including the dog, and few of the situations are believable, but they're fun.
While not exactly deep, it gives the book more depth than it starts with.The early works of Janet Evanovich won't win any writing awards, but for a funny read with a little heart, they're pretty much a sure thing.
Because I like her style of writing, I gave this one a try.
The style remains the same, and there are some really funny moments and characters.
In order to make ends meet, she takes on the job as traffic reporter at the radio station where she works, even though she has no idea what to do.
I liked that this book was light and fluffy and didn't really take alot of brain power to get through.
I probably won't read this book again, but for it was a good read for a one time round of pre-sleepy time relaxation.
Another book for the library's adult summer reading program -cd/romance.
I've never read anything by Janet Evanovich before.
We'll see...Okay, so, this was a my first Janet Evanovich book...
I might have been less annoyed by this audiobook had the reader sounded closer to the age of the main character.
I kept reminding myself the character was in her 20s, not her 50s as she sounded.
Since I was reading this for the summer reading program, I stuck it out to the end, but I really, really hope I don't have to choose another romance on cd...
Her characters are cute and charming, but the romance is ridiculously swift and the plot is a little jumpy.Daisy is a sweet, overworked girl who falls into a job as a traffic reporter.
Even though they've worked together at the radio station for over a year, the minute Daisy gets the job, they fall in love.
It's like getting your ears pierced" and "you son of a dog!", it's easy to write off all the characters as idiots, even though one is a graduate student and one is the manager of a radio station.
อยากจะกรีด 8 ตลบ พระเอกอาไรนารักมากๆ สตีฟเปนเจาของสถานีวิทยุทีนางเอกไปทำงานเปนผูจัดรายการเกียวกับอาหารสุนัขเพือหารายไดเสริมจากการทีเธอเรียนตอปริญญาเอกดานจิตวิทยา เธอทำงานตังแตเชาจรดเยน เริมดวยการสงหนังสือพิมพ เดกเสริฟรานอาหาร จัดรายการวิทยุ เขียนตำราอาหารสุนัข ฯลฯ เธอขอพระเอกควบตำแหนงนักขาวรายงานขาวจราจรเนืองจากนักขาวคนปัจจุบันประสบอุบัติเหตุตองพักรักษาตัวพระเอกทีแสนจะหลอ รวย และเซกซีอยางรายกาจถูกมนตเสนหหลงรักเธอแบบไมรูเนือรูตัว (ไมรูแกไปชอบเอาตอนไหน)ถึงขนาดโกหกนางเอกวาตัวเองเลียงสุนัข จนตองเดือ
อยากจะกรี๊ด 8 ตลบ พระเอกอาไร๊น่ารักมากๆ สตีฟเป็นเจ้าของสถานีวิทยุที่นางเอกไปทำงานเป็นผู้จัดรายการเกี่ยวกับอาหารสุนัขเพื่อหารายได้เสริมจากการที่เธอเรียนต่อปริญญาเอกด้านจิตวิทยา เธอทำงานตั้งแต่เช้าจรดเย็น เริ่มด้วยการส่งหนังสือพิมพ์ เด็กเสริฟร้านอาหาร จัดรายการวิทยุ เขียนตำราอาหารสุนัข ฯลฯ เธอขอพระเอกควบตำแหน่งนักข่าวรายงานข่าวจราจรเนื่องจากนักข่าวคนปัจจุบันประสบอุบัติเหตุต้องพักรักษาตัวพระเอกที่แสนจะหล่อ รวย และเซ็กซี่อย่างร้ายกาจถูกมนต์เสน่ห์หลงรักเธอแบบไม่รู้เนื้อรู้ตัว (ไม่รู้แกไปชอบเอาตอนไหน)ถึงขนาดโกหกนางเอกว่าตัวเองเลี้ยงสุนัข จนต้องเดือดร้อนไปหาสุนัขมาเลี้ยงอย่างเร่งด่วน บ๊อบสุนัขที่แสนจะโชคดีก็เลยได้รถ SUV คันใหม่ป้ายแดงมานั่งโฉบเฉี่ยวเพราะรถเก๋งสปอร์ตมันเล็กเกินไป เท่านั้นยังไม่พอยังได้ย้ายไปอยู่บ้านหลังใหม่แทนคอนโดที่พระเอกอยู่แต่เดิมเพราะโลเกชั่นไม่เหมาะกับการมีสัตว์เลี้ยง ว่าเข้าไปนั่น คนอะไรจะลงทุนซื้อรถซื้อบ้านด้วยเงินสดแบบไม่ต้องยั้งคิดเพียงเพราะจะจีบสาว เฮ้อ...รวยซะอย่างมันก็ดีไปแปดอย่างแต่ที่ไม่เข้าใจเป็นอย่างยิ่งคือหล่อเลือกได้อย่างพระเอกเนี่ยทำไม๊ทำไมมาหลงรักคนโก๊ะ ๆ อย่างนางเอกอย่างหัวปักหัวปำก็ไม่รู้
Classic Janet writingThis book is classic Janet Evanovich. It is cute and light and an all around feel good book.. I recommend it for all Janet fans.
Romance isn't my cup of tea but this met some prompt for challenges I am doing, so I read it. An early on book, written in 1991. You can see how some early characters developed into Stephanie Plum characters. Elsie is just like Grandma Mazur and we meet the first "Bob", the dog. Steve and Daisy meet at work, and between shoot outs with gangsters fall in love, she gets pregnant (big surprise there!) and they plan to get married and live happily ever after.Typical romance book only funnier.
Sofort stellt sich heraus, dass der Hund nicht ins Auto (Angeberkarre, die offenbar Frauen so toll finden, dass sie permanent ihre Unterwäsche als Annäherungsversuch daran befestigen.) passt, also kauft er ein neues Auto und natürlich ein passendes Haus zum Hund.
Albern.Alles wirkt zu glatt, sowohl die Liebesgeschichte, als auch die kleinen Momente, in denen die Autorin alles so arrangiert, dass eine bestimmte Situation entsteht.Die Perspektive wechselt permanent zwischen den beiden Protagonisten hin und her.
Die wechselnde Perspektive wirkte auf mich unkoordiniert und ungeschickt.Die Gefühle werden beschrieben, nicht gezeigt.
Man fühlt nicht mit, wie sich die Protagonisten verlieben, die Autorin stellt es einfach fest.
This was a lot of fun for a long-time Evanovich fan to read.
It begins when Daisy, our overworked heroine, talks her gorgeous boss, Steve Crow, into letting her do the traffic reports at his radio station.
Daisy soon gives in to her attraction to Steve, who wants to marry her.
It is easy to see that Janet Evanovich was always a talented author, and this effort, though not as quick and quirky as her later novels, lacks the old-fashioned stiltedness that many of the early works of other best-selling authors have.
Well, I figured, here's an author with a proven talent for character, plot, and pacing that will most likely appeal to someone looking to avoid overwrought writing, bodice ripping, and heavily contrived plots.
When radio station owner Steve Crow needs a replacement for his laid-up traffic reporter, spunky Daisy Adams, host of the popular, 5-minute "Bones for Bowser" segment (based on her dog food cookbook of the same name), jumps at the chance.
But the romance moves forward just like the D.C. Beltway traffic.
And just like Beltway traffic, things get unpredictable and quite jammed up at times.
The basic plot: A super rich man that has never held a long term relationship despite the fact that he's hot, rich and manly yet sensitive has his fate thrown in with a driven, yet hugely over-commited girl with time management issues due to some kind of calamitous event though they've casually met over a year ago.
As this was one of Evanovich's earlier unpublished works, I can only assume that she made many variants on the same story to try to get a publisher.
To which I say, "Good for you girl, one of them obviously worked and now you're laughing all the way to the bank.
Desperate enough to give the kooky dog lady Daisy Adams a try behind the wheel.
Having a hand, or more like a fender, involved in the capture of the bad guy, the threat to Daisy’s life seemed to hit Steve hard.
Something about Daisy also prompted Steve to get a dog (Bob), buy an SUV and a house - good thing he’s rich.
Got a kick out of the first Bob the dog.
Also liked the character of Elsie Hawkins, you can really see the beginnings of the character of Grandma Mazur.
Lots of thing happen to and around Daisy, I liked how Steve handled it all.
"The Rocky Road to Romance" doesn't disappoint but is not something memorable either.
If only soul mates were so readily available!
(And rich enough to buy a new car, house and dog in the same afternoon just to please their new mate!)The first appearance of a Bob dog is fun - though "him" being a gray and white sheep dog was unexpected.
Which is perfectly suited to Daisy's job as the Dog Lady of WZZZ.Nevertheless, if you are caught up on the Stephanie Plum series and need a mindless romance to pass an afternoon, pick up a copy at a used bookstore or library.
Some many elements from this book seemed to get put into the Stephanie Plum series that it felt like I didn't need to read this book.
There is the indestructible powder blue Cadillac that that becomes a powder blue different car in the the Plum Series and the let's not forget Bob the dog.
Then add in the hi-jinx of bad guys chasing after our heroine and her trying to remain independent and really I've read this book by this author.
Not bad, just not very original.
I mean at least change the color of the car or the name of the dog...
This is the second novel I've read today.
I've been on a reading frenzy!!
I adored this novel by Evanovich and I gotta hand it to her, the woman knows how to write.
A funny, endearing romantic story.Rocky Road is the happy story of a guy who owns a radio station, a likeable overworked woman who does the traffic report, and a dog named Bob. They all fall in love, they outsmart some bad guys, and they eat a lot of dessert.
For an elderly lady who runs her own body guard service and she is THE bodyguard, she is hysterically funny.

The bones of the Plum books are in this early romance from Evanovich. Over-scheduled woman takes job as fill-in radio reporter for one of her bosses because it pays well. He's in lust, and goes after her with a vengeance, which she notices in passing because she's so busy.Then she foils a crime by mistake and the baddie comes after her. At his insistence, she hires a Caddy-driving grandma with a big gun. By the way, he adopts a dog named Bob that eats everything. Sounding familiar? A few funny moments, but Plum is better.
Oh how I love Janet's stories! I have yet to find a book that doesn't capture my attention from page one, and has me laughing out loud! It's so refreshing to take a break and read her amazing stories!
Adorable like all the rest in the series!
Loved this book! Want more Elsie Hawkins!
OMG this is terrible. Clearly the idea of Stephanie Plum and her crazy sidekick and Bob the dog came from this piece of crap. Avoid at all costs!
When I was in my twenties, I loved the early Stephanie Plum books Evanovich wrote.
The protective alpha male hero, the lovably inept heroine with financial issues, the spunky senior citizen who carries her own gun, and even a big affable dog with a big appetite named Bob. The tone and style is distinctly Evanovich.Published in 1991, there’s a few nostalgic details—car phones, and people relying on the radio for traffic reports.
Okay, I guess we still have traffic reports, but we also have GPS with traffic tracking features.But with the early ‘90s nostalgia comes...the quintessential alpha male romance hero.
More like 3.5 stars.
I liked it, but there were some things I couldn't ignore.
For instance, it wasn't clear what kind of sports car the hero was driving.
It was like the characters shared a really funny joke and the reader was left out in the cold.
I also felt cheated out of a pretty hot love scene.
There is an after sex scene that was pretty.....expressive, but once again, the reader is left out in the cold because we really didn't know what happened.
The characters were likeable and interesting.
I appreciated the fact that the hero was Native American.
The Rocky Road to Romance by Janet Evanovich was entertaining. I laughed out loud several times and was pleasantly surprised with the humor. I liked the characters, especially Bob. The end of the book threw a couple of pleasant surprises in there. Overall I enjoyed this book. I would recommend it for a fun, quick read.
I wanted something fluffy to read on vacation, so grabbed this paperback from my shelf. Well, it sure was fluffy, and I tore through it in no time. There's a dose of slapstick (à la Plum) thanks to Elsie Hawkins, which makes for an easy read, but the insta-love, possessiveness of the male lead and ditziness of the female lead put me off. Not my cup of tea.
