https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/904372.The_Dark_Frigate
Having won the Newbery Medal for children's literature in the 1920's, it certainly wouldn't be considered children's literature today. Complete with murdering pirates and filled with rather violent action, it reads more like an adventure/action novel, and may I add, a very good one. It may be my favorite Newbery Medal book to date.1924 Newbery Medal winner.
Yet the sand is falling as fast as ever, though a man whose life is weighing in the balance can scarcely believe it; so at last the jury made an end of its work, which after all had taken little enough time in consideration of the matter they must decide.There is a sorry lack of any real female presence here (it's the topic of my thesis), except as pretty girls for adventurous boys to leave behind and someday return to or as matronly innkeepers, but this qualm aside, it is a solid novel and surprisingly Newbery-worthy.
I believe the correct phrase is "a rollicking good yarn."
It is a historical fiction set around the time of the English civil war about a 19 your old boy, Philip Marsham, who gets caught up with pirates.
He finds himself in bad circumstances, and stays true to himself and what he believes is right.
His basic integrity and honesty earn him respect on both sides of the law.Another thing I liked about this book is that the pirates are not just a bunch of party boys out for a good time.
It would be very interesting to compare the motivations of someone like Philip Marsham with a modern day protagonist facing similar circumstances.
A very enjoyable read.
Sadly, it is probably inaccessible to most younger readers of today because they haven't been exposed to enough older books with more complex writing styles, vocabulary (even discounting the now-archaic nautical terms), and pacing.
I put off reading this for a number of years.
Unlike writers of today's children's books, Hawes does not simplify anything about the writing.
I don't find that the reader need know every last term.
So that's what Hawes does.There are plenty of twists and turns and surprises throughout the book.
Is it boring?No. There is action and adventure from page one.Is it too violent?I don't think so.
Really, if I read a pirate story without some spurting blood, I feel cheated.Is the main character too passive?Eh. A little.
He's very active at the beginning and the end, but there are times after the mutiny when you'd like to know what he's thinking, but Dawes doesn't feel the need to mention it.Is the plot weak?Not exactly weak, but definitely slow-building.
The characters are complex, and a lot of critical thinking is left to the reader.
For a children's book, this started off pretty slow.
I kept wondering why it was considered a children's book as the level of the language was pretty complex.
What worked as children's books then rarely do now.
The definition seems to be based on what children would enjoy as adults read the book to the children, not children reading themselves.
At that time, it was rare for children to own books or have access to libraries.
In my mind's ear I could hear the gasp of children as unexpected things happen and the delighted laughs when good things happen.
Newbery Medal Winner--1924Once you get past the outdated language and sailor speak, this book has some rousing adventure and intrigue. The problem is, I'm not a big fan of pirate tales, so even then the appeal for me was only so-so. The ending in particular grabbed my attention--once the focus came back to Phillip and his plans for escape. I can see why a story like this was popular in its time, but I need a little bit more in my adventure stories.
I can’t think of any other way to say it.
The older vocabulary was used very naturally without making it hard to understand the story.
He uses the technical terms for each rope, sail, mast, and bit of wood.
Things happen to him and around him, but he isn’t really a factor until the very end of the book when his actions do actually influence the story.
That was suspenseful part of the book.
(hide spoiler)] So I loved the writing style but didn’t really care for the story.
There is nothing wrong with the book, but there isn’t anything great about it either.
Several years ago, when I decided to read all of the John Newbery Medal Winners, this was one of the books I was dreading - published in 1923, some of those early winners are slow going.
This book doesn't sugar coat it -the life of a pirate was brutal and cutthroat and not a black/white issue, as the main character, Philip Marsham discovers.I found the story of the author, Charles Boardman Hawes, heartbreaking.
Hawes, when his book appeared in 1923, was already there." A good reminder that the best of children's literature should deal with the most difficult issues that young people face in honest, yet hopeful ways.
1924 Newbery Medal WinnerI was intrigued about reading this book.
My husband happened to find some reviews of it with parents saying they wouldn't let their children read it because of the violence in the book.
Made me want to read it even more.I will first say that the English in the book is written in an older style.
Even though this book is almost a century old, it is actually historical fiction since the plot takes place in the colonial era.
The ship is then hijacked by pirates and Philip is pressed into their service.
The story was OK, especially in the middle, but I can only assume the Committee was looking for something very different in its early years. Other reviewers seemed to find the prose clear and lyrical; I thought it was unnecessarily dense and convoluted.
Part of a project to read all of the Newbery Award-winners.
Amongst the first winners of this award for children's literature, this book dates from the 1920's.
Neither fully explain my problems with the book, which I simply found to be awkwardly paced (long stretches of nothing and then jumpy and disjointed action crammed into a five-page span) and frequently very dull.
This is coming from someone who has an absurd love of sea stories, so it was definitely not the nautical terminology or ship-voyage details that put me off.
I simply don't think the structure of the story holds up.
There are better pirate books for this age group out there!
This guy really turns a good phrase, and he did a good job of making you feel like you were in the 17th century. That's really the only good thing one can say about this book. The plot felt like one random thing following the other with no necessary connection between them. Not recommended for young people, old people, or in-between people.
- This was a fun pirate adventure. There should be more pirate books out there. - The book is older, so the writing was harder to read. It was a little slow and a little boring at times.- I liked Philip a lot. He reminded me of Jim Hawkins.- Hooray for one more Newbery winner read!
I got my hopes up in chapter 6 when Hawes introduced some lovely forboding descriptions of The Rose of Devon (the pirate ship), but those proved to be a rarity in the work as a whole and other than a few lessons on what it means to be a pirate and a couple comical descriptions, there is a little to commend this book.
her towering sides which were painted black gave her a singularly dark appearance, and she put out to sea like a shadow out of older days.
like a shadow out of older days ...
I don’t WANT to whine, but I cannot praise this book.
I’m trying to be a role model here.The reviews I read were good and encouraging: a sea-faring yarn complete with pirates and a near-hanging of our swash-buckling hero.
I was rooting more for him than for Our Hero.Here: this book has the longest subtitle:Wherein is told the story of Philip Marsham who lived in the time of King Charles and was bred a sailor but came home to England after many hazards by sea and land and fought for the King at Newbury and lost a great inheritance and departed for Barbados in the same ship, by curious chance, in which he had long before adventured with the pirates.That pretty much sums it up.
The third Newbery winner, this is a pirate tale set in the days just before the English Civil Wars.
Philip Marsham sets off to sea, and the ship is overtaken by pirates.
I can't imagine most adults, let alone children, of today reading this book with much understanding: the language is really very obscure, even for me, practically raised on archaic Britishisms.
Great adventure book for lovers of Treasure Island and Pirates of Caribbean.
Unfortunately for this book, todays young readers are much more interested in a direct story then in beautifully crafted language.
despite all of that this is a wonderfully crafted book that doesn't gloss anything over.
Pirates are very bad, not gentlemanly, and innocents often get swept up in unfair ways.
It is unfortunate that this author died the same year this was published because he set it up nicely and it would have made a great trilogy if not series.
It was a bit hard for me to read, language wise.
I can remember trying to read this when I was a runt, and failing.
If I could get a little more comfortable with the writing style, this would probably pose as a thoroughly adventurous, ‘dun dun dun’ sort of tale.
I imagine with future readings my appreciation for this book will grow.
(I read another book by this author that didn't have the "sea" language, and I quite enjoyed it.) So I worry that this book's trickiness to read gives it some undeserved wrath.
Stick with it, and the tale actually gets fairly compelling.
Continuing my Newbery Winner read/re-read. And this one is a reminder that all new Newbery's are not good. This one was just plain confused. The plot just wandered to no good point. The characters were just hints that started interesting and then added no depth. Sure I'm never a big fan of a sailing book, but this one just added nothing to that. And it was not especially readable. It was not overly long, but it felt long. And then in the end it crammed 20 plus years of life into a couple of pages for no good benefit.
A Newberry award winner. I thought it might be a decent pirate yarn ,but was surprised. It is a good pirate yarn well enough,but Oh so much more. A tale of honor, courage, and tall sailing ships. The bad guys are bad and our hero is well, heroic.
1924 Newbery. No idea why this won a Newbery, except for maybe the cover. The archaic language makes it especially unreadable even for adults, and the storyline doesn't live up to the fanfare of the subtitle. I doubt any kid ever enjoyed this.
From that point on, Phil's conscience is torn between not wanting to do pirate stuff but knowing that they will knife him if he actively resists, and doing the Right Thing.(view spoiler)[Phil finally snaps when the pirates interrogate his friend Will Canty and prepare some kind of dastardly torture for him, putting him in a boat tied hand and foot and rowing him toward the mainland.
This book took me forever to read.
Eventually, I realize that TDF was meant to be read aloud.
The sentences were constructed for someone to orate the story rather than read it quietly to themselves.
Without going into a mere summary of the plot, Philip is raised by a what seems to be a vagabond father and after a girl swoons him he chooses a life at sea only to be caught up in pirate shenanigans.
Eventually, when his life is at stake, he holds honor close to his heart and is acquitted of crimes and returns to find the girl who promised to wait for him has married.
This book won the Newbery in 1924, a thing that would never happen today.
It is the story of the adventures of one Phillip Marsham, a young man (late teens or early 20s, I think), the son a seaman and grandson of a clergyman, who after the death of his father goes to sea on the dark frigate, the Rose of Devon.
It's an adventure story, a story of pirates, and of growing up.
Language (weird, archaic, and wonderful), writing (it's complicated, rich, and beautifully descriptive), and content (all that detail about ships and sailing, plus murderous pirates!) are all well above that of most teen readers - it would never be marketed for children today.
Newbery Medal: 1924Philip Marsham, having a father who is unquestionably a scoundrel and a grandfather who has disowned both, hears the sea calling after his father dies.
Yet, when the ship is overtaken by pirates, Philip has no choice but to commit to their dastardly ways or face death.Full of high-seas adventures, murder, mayhem, and downright nastiness, The Dark Frigate is both puzzling and exhausting.
The language alone will have any reader struggling to make sense of it all.
Couple that with the draining and tiresome way the events unfold will undoubtedly makes some readers give up.
I was really pleasantly surprised by the tone and style. The book doesn’t try to dumb down or oversimplify just because it’s meant for children. The story is weirdly real, and not all threads are tied or fixed, plus the characters are portrayed in complex ways, far more than I’d expect out of an old-timey boys’ adventure novel. Overall I really enjoyed it and it kept my interest well.My one complaint is how quick the last part was. I know the focus was on the ship adventure but I’d have liked to see more about the Cromwell wars.
An early Newberry award winner and, you can tell, it is dated.
Phillip Marsham is orphaned and is forced to go on the run when he has an accident with a gun.
He falls in with some questionable types and has adventures.A hard read because of the terminology and language.
I think kids today would have a hard time reading this.
It would be a good adventure story if updated.
But Phil didn't seem to stay true to how he began.
He, at first, seems clumsy then trusting then he's supposed to be smart then naive.
It took about a third of the book to grab my interest but then I was hooked. I think there was too much Old English at the beginning that hindered my enjoyment of the story. But eventually the adventure of being on the high seas carried the day. I’d recommend this book for anyone interested in an intriguing plot and who can tolerate the confusing language at the beginning of the book.
