https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333832.How_to_Do_Things_with_Words
Here's an extract for your delectation.Once upon a time, there was a philosopher called Frege, who had the interesting idea that language and logic were really, you know, pretty much the same thing.
Language, explained Wittgenstein, consisted of "pictures", the predicate calculus expressions, which "connected to the world".
Wittgenstein apologised "for not writing a better book", but he managed to convince many of his colleagues that logic may not in fact be the right way to think about what language means.And so we get up to Austin, one of Wittgenstein's brightest students, who wrote How To Do Things With Words.
Like Tractatus, the Investigation gave rise to its own following, this time in the form of Ordinary-Language Philosophy, represented primarily by a few figures at Oxford University: Gilbert Ryle, H.L.A. Hart, Peter Strawson, R.M. Hare, and, of course, J.L. Austin.
But in fact, Austin goes further: not only is truth but one form of a condition of acceptability, but most utterances made in everyday life — even those that are apparently constative in nature — are not constative in the sense encountered in works of philosophy.
Austin is seldom read, but his ideas of performative language and speech-act theory have been very influential.
I had a writing professor that would drive me nuts as he would discuss whether something was felicitous or infelicitous.
Austin is the one who came up with the idea of felicitous and infelicitous argument.
I am not sure that the binary of felicitous and infelicitous actually works in the world, but I like the way that he describes this binary as workings.
In my rhetoric class, we had a great discussion about how he would view Facebook and updating statuses.
I do things with words.
I was surprised how often my notes were just smiley faces, or "hmm" or cheery acknowledgment of 1955 slang (actually, probably older than that,adjusting for how hip and with-it Austin probably was, "cock a snook" being my personal favorite expression.).
Lots of Aristotelian classification, and a surprise twist for the last two chapters where he returns to his premises and (ugh, I hate the word) deconstructs them.Brain hurts a little and I'll probably feel like a doofus writing some sort of intelligent response on it for my continentalist professor tomorrow, but I appreciate Austin's good humor and deep thinking.
I love this book, but it really could be 40 pages long.
etc.), and yet(2) how weirdly legalistic most of this book is.
And I'm left really wishing that Austin would have given an example illustrating how "the truth or falsity of a statement depends not merely on the meanings of words but on what act you were performing in what circumstances".
Moreover, he says a statement IS a kind of (illocutionary) act, so how could the truth of an act depend on what act you were performing with it?
attracted as I am to the charming circularity of sentences that "do" what they "say", austin loses me as early as p.9 with "I must not be joking, for example, nor writing a poem." will this theory of speech that cannot take jokes or poetry into account ever get beyond the most banal utterances of an honest-to-goodness man-of-his-word? then there is all the talk about war, sports, giving orders and shooting donkeys-- reading this book feels a lot like being bullied into accepting some rather dubious assumptions about causality in speech...I declare a thumb war.
After I finished this book I was thinking "this is definitely a five-star for Goodreads!"Okay, it's really frickin' good, but I think four is enough. I knew what this book was about before I read it, but it was a pleasure to hear it all in full. Not only is Austin's thesis really great, the origins of performative speech, but it's also very straightforward.I declare this book excellent.
You can do a lot of things with words, but tragically you still can't get them to wash the dishes.
Intentemos entender la peculiar eficacia que define a esta ontología que da una hipóstasis, una sustancia, un ser a las cosas que parecen carecer de todo ser.
Deberíamos, por lo tanto, considerar el hecho de que en el famoso libro de 1962 escrito por Austin que ya mencioné, How to do things with words [Cómo hacer cosas con palabras], la orden fue clasificada como un acto de habla, un acto ilocutivo, es decir, como un discurso que no significa o describe un estado de cosas simplemente sino que, mediante su mera pronunciación, produce la verdad como un hecho -perdón, el juramento como un hecho.
Easy to read and understand--he summarizes himself at the start of every lecture, so whenever I didn't understand something I skipped to the next chapter and, lo and behold, I figured it out! I'm not an analytic philosophy guy, but I have to say... Respect to Austin for somehow working in the phrase: "There are more ways of killing a cat than drowning it in butter".
While working within the same, precise and cut-and-dried tradition as Frege and Russell, he still is able to make a radical proposition, that of the speech act.To sum up...
Our words for things are grounded in social and cultural realities, and their definitions are based on socially generated acceptable meanings.
These are things that make intuitive sense to you and me, but not to Frege.
Poor Frege.Austin's specifics are a lot more complex and subtle, but if you care at all about the words you use-- and I care a lot, probably too much-- you'll find something to appreciate here.


Simultaneously one of the most modest and one of the most seismically important works in the philosophy of language. Too well written for its own good. Searle's re-configuration of Speech Act Theory is much better philosophy, but this is worth a read just for the prose.
In the case of the latter, to speak is also to act - as in to change something about the world: 'I do take this woman/man to be my lawfully wedded wife/husband', 'I promise that I will be there tonight', 'get out of the way, that bull is dangerous!' Note that to do something via speaking may also involve actions - such as the exchanging of rings in the example of marriage.The former, which is the descriptive utterance, is distinguished from the performative in so far as nothing is changed about the world via its utterance: 'the grass is green', 'today is Tuesday', 'the lightbulb has blown'.As shall be seen though, there can be cases of crossovers between the two - ultimately requiring a new conceptual model comprised of three parts: 'locution, illocution and perlocution'(end of ch.8 onwards, book has 12 chapters).Fundamentally (from the revised conceptual model), the point of importance I took away from the dialectic, is that to speak is to in all cases to act in some way.
Per its catchy title, the book is a sketch investigation (in the form of a series of lectures that were delivered at Harvard in 1955) of certain performative aspects of language which problematized the then paradigmatic view that all utterances (at least many more than you might suppose) may be analysed, qua simple statements, as true or false.
This book has all the hallmarks of having achieved its classic status upon its release.
Though I had difficulty following certain of Austin's more abstruse contortions, I am the richer for having attempted them.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who prizes language, reason, and argument.
Thinking about the way language works is a good way to humble yourself, because you can use the stuff, but you really have no idea how it all works.
Admit it!)Anyway, this book is part of a refutation of people who for some awful reason called themselves positivists, whose idea was that all of our metaphysical difficulties could be figured out if we all just figured out what we were actually talking about.
This book proves that their basic idea about how language conveys information is incorrect because it can't allow for words that do things, for instance saying "I do" when you marry a person.
Uzun zamandır, bu kadar “bit artık!” diye gözünün içine baktığım bir kitap olmamıştı! Ben okurken zor okudum, çeviren çevirirken nasıl çevirmiş hayret... Bir yıldız kitabın kendisineyse, diğer yıldız çevirmene.
This book is surprisingly readable and will teach you a ton about the ways in which we use language. Also, it's occasionally quite funny. I highly recommend it to my fellow writers in particular (but really to anyone with an interest in language).
Entendí Máximo la mitad, me parece que es mejor leer este libro en inglés o con conocimientos avanzados de lógica o lingüística o todo lo anterior. Aún así es evidente que nos encontramos ante una gran obra
An extremely important work which is also quite funny and readable.
Full of jargon, confusing examples and unnecessary detours. The only saving grace is the "plot" twist at the end.Reading just the last two chapters would have been sufficient.
Now I know how to do things with words.
Lingüística. Muy preciso, muchos ejemplos, muy científico. Perspectiva algo jurídica. Taxonómico.
Too confusing and wordy when it could definitely be simplified.
A selection.
While extremely confusing at times, Austin's ideas about performative language resonates across disciplines and is recognizable in performance as an art.
A philosopher talks about words, in the process showing why I don't take philosophers seriously. The imprecision of language is necessary in order for it to be useful.
Muy interesante, pero por momentos bastante complejo. Importante lectura para estudiantes de derecho, abogados y lingüistas.
Interesante y denso
