https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76956.Mystery_at_Devil_s_Paw
This is one of my surviving Hardy Boys books (most were lost in a basement flood years ago).
Chet is the chubby, loyal chum from the first book to the last.
The historical perspective has possibilities - Alaska was a new state.
Might be interesting to read other young adult books written at the time where the adventure is in Alaska.
For no reason I can think of, I loved these books growing up and still try to use the words 'bivouac' and 'reconnoiter' whenever possible.
This was a pretty average Hardy Boys book; the only thing exceptional about it was the heavy racism towards Native Americans, even though this was the rewrite from the 1970s. I couldn't believe how the characters were portrayed; teenagers speaking like something out of an old Western. It made no sense.
I read the original text of this book.
It was a run-of-the-mill book, neither boring nor exciting.
It was a typical Hardy Boys book but it's set in Alaska.
The brothers are summoned to Alaska by their friend, Tony, who is working on an island near Juneau as a stream guard for the Fish and Wildlife Service.
There's a mystery and the Hardy Boys are off!
They suspect that all the trouble is being caused by foreigners searching for a moon rocket.
A moon rocket in 1959?
A statement in the front of the book says that Alaska became our 49th state during the writing of this book.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
Typical lively Hardy Boys, only this time they go to Alaska, my old stomping grounds, which made it that much more interesting. Didn't much care for the monosyllabic Native Alaskan friend and that they called him an Indian, but they did respect his brains and skills, so there's that.
In which the "Indians" are casually called "savages", the author knows nothing about archaeology or palaeontology, and... maybe Mr. Hardy has just been sleeping around the entire U.S. all this time?
Moon rockets in Alaska! This was a pretty great Hardy Boys story. This cover is also another great stinker.
Yet another fun and exciting episode.
I learned that Frank and Joe Hardy have not grown up yet!
Their dad and mom and Aunt Gertrude and their friend Chet are just classic!
I picked this book up to read when I was stuck in the basement one evening!There they were-most of the Hardy Boy books and some Nancy Drew-I figured I had given Nancymy all in my youth and didn't really give the Hardy Boys a fair shake!Well, Nancy and her friends Bess and George, still out do Frank and Joe (will they never learn!)Now that I truly know Carolyn Keene and Franklin W.
This book is about these two boys who got a letter from there friend to help them solve a mystery they are in Alaska.
They are trying to catch a gang that are hiding in the forest.
They are trying to catch fish for salmon but Tony the wildlife protector won't allow them.
They fish because the other gang is trying to find a nuclear bomb.
But the person who got the Hardy to Tony said that his dad was lost.
They have skills they have power and they have weapons the hardy boys books are good for you.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
What does one say about the Hardy Boy's...I did find it interesting that this was dedicated to the boys and girls of Alaska, which became a state while this was written.
And I think that it would be a fascinating study to read all the versions of each book - they changed over time.
For example, my favorite one - The Twisted Claw - has a benign old man as the bad guy in the first edition; later, he is a cruel and bad pirate.
If it were released today, maybe there would be a Somalian angle or at least the bad guy would be from the Middle East OR a drug kingpin.

this is one of my favorite mysteries in The Hardy Boys so far. I look forward to going to Alaska sometime in the future. but I fear I will not be able to see Alaska for a long time.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
Dixon, Franklin W.
It was really good. The hiding place for the loot.And they saved the lives of others people.
Excellent adventure.
The cheesiest thing ever. The Hardy Boys were obviously written for a different generation, and as a result are so unrealistic and corny that it really annoys me. I think I'll keep reading them.
I love reading the Hardys with my son.
A Hardy Boys adventure in Alaska
Read in 2005.
I loved it.
read when I was 10 through 13
