https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/242144.Of_Other_Worlds
(I didn't actually read the fragment or these notes, since my interest is rather in the finished writings; and I think this material would primarily interest Lewis scholars or completists.)The three stories are "The Shoddy Lands," "Forms of Things Unknown," (both of which would be difficult to discuss in detail without spoilers), and "Ministering Angels." All of these show genuine originality; but the one that's my favorite by far, and that I'd say succeeds best in engaging the reader as a story, is the latter.

Speaking of which, "It began with a picture..." is exactly that, a description of how the Narnia books were developed.If you're collecting CS Lewis' minor essays, then this is certainly a good place to start, although of course you'll likely want to start with major essays first.
That is, of course, unless you've decided to collect ALL his essays - not a task for any but a very serious collector.
Perhaps someday the estate will come up with a definitive and streamlined compilation of essays and short stories (which they've already done with Lewis' letters.) Until then, collector beware.- RE de Leon, December 30, 2010
My favorite thing about this collection, hands-down, was the fact that in every essay, Lewis offered Tolkien as a shining example of the art of whatever element of Story he was discussing. Honestly, I can only aspire to be that Extra™ in my support of my friends' creative endeavors! Aside from the insight into Lewis's personality and creative mind, I very much enjoyed the short story toward the end of the collection about man's travels to the moon.
But his thoughts on science fiction were interesting (the last two essays).(2) It was interesting and quite enjoyable to hear Lewis shed some details about how he came to write Narnia and the Space Trilogy.
What was most interesting here is in multiple essays he makes it clear that he did not start with a message or moral and then make the story.
And he makes clear, the message and morals then come from the author as they write the story.
This was less about stories, but about reading and writing criticisms of books.
I really enjoyed the essays in part one of this book - getting some information on the background of Space Trilogy from some of the essays was excellent. The second part (the Stories) are all contained in "The Dark Tower" which I read last year. They are good, too, for the short stories that they are.
These essays will interest those who enjoy science fiction and fantasy. Still, there are several worth reading for either the general thoughts on story telling or insight into human nature.
But I also enjoy sci-fi and good criticism, the subjects of the last few (and longest) essays, but Lewis treated those much more academically than the topic of children’s literature, and it became quite a chore to trudge through them – in all honesty, it felt like homework.
Like reading an academic article rather than an engaging essay on an interesting topic.
Forms of Things Unknown had a fantastically executed tension to it, is an interesting blend of sci-fi and myth, and redeemed him a bit after the first story.
One thing I’d like to address (but that still pains me a little to mention) is Lewis’ descriptions of women in the stories included.
This essay collection has a great deal of overlap with the essay collection On Stories by C.S. Lewis.I think the entire first half is the same.The publisher makes an apology for this by saying that this edition contains content that they felt worth publishing.They are not wrong.
This book contains short stories by C.S. Lewis, including 2/3 science fiction short stories.
I dislike short stories, but his science fiction short stories were really good.
The three chapters of the novel looked like it would have been pretty great.
Maybe only buy this is you're REALLY into Lewis.
This collection includes so much great commentary on the SFF genre, on fairy tales, on politics and more.
I loved every page of this collection (actually, minus one story.
A particular highlight of the collection is the unfinished draft of "After 10 Years”; I desperately wish that Lewis had been well enough to finish this most romantic-sounding story...and to console myself, I immediately ordered everything I could about Troy.
Recommended to anyone who loves reading about the origins of science fiction, fantasy and fairy tales.
Highlyrecommended to Christians, especially those with an interest in SFF; but really all Christians would benefit from a better understanding of the speculative genres.
Of the short stories in the second half, many are unfinished, and the couple that seem to be, end on such cliff hangers, it’s a wonder he didn’t write more!It is in the first half though, that I saw Lewis truly shine.
Not only is he keen and alert to many issues, the way he illustrates his points and his writing style never make it a bore to run through his thought alongside him.
I’d highly recommend this to any avid fans of Lewis or just anyone wanting to think more clearly about one’s own writing style and purpose for writing!
For anyone who has been moved by or meaningfully connected to Lewis and his writing, this is an intriguing collection.An admixture of essays, responses, discussions, and interviews...along with a couple of stories, it gives great insight into the other writers that influenced Lewis.I knew of his intersection with the Inklings, and his connection with Tolkien.
But that wasn't where he stopped.
I mean, I had no idea he'd read and been inspired by Arthur C.
Lewis read...and enjoyed...TITUS GROAN?
Some of the essays are more engaging than others.
A three point seven five, but a must for Lewis fans.
This was fascinating.
I really enjoy reading Lewis, however the only drawback to this volume in particular is that all of the essays in this book can be found in the compilation entitled: On Stories.
This being said, I will say that the short stories and some of the incomplete work located in this volume were utterly sensational.
Had the last story been finished in particular I have no doubt that it would fly off of the shelves.
Lewis was many things: a scholar, a poet, and an apologist, but he was also a gifted storyteller.
Whoever runs CSL's estate is obviously scraping the bottom of the barrel, at this point . . . the first half of this book consists of repetitive short essays/articles published in tiny journals or Festschrifts that could all just be titled "A Half-Assed Attempt to Write My Own Version of Tolkien's 'On Fairy-Stories.'" The second half consists of CSL's early sci-fi stories and bits of an unpublished novel, all of which I'm assuming he would not have considered worthy of publication in book form.
I was going to three-star this because each piece here can be found in either On Stories: And Other Essays on Literature or The Dark Tower and Other Stories. However, this one was published first, so four stars it is.
I really enjoyed Lewis' thoughts on fairy tales and children's stories. I will definitely read those essays again. I liked the first two-thirds of the book (thoughts and essays) more than the last third (short stories). The short stories were a bit strange to me, though this is a book "Of Other Worlds" so I guess that was to be expected. :)
It was great to read Lewis' thoughts on the writing of science fiction, a genre that is so dear to my heart and yet so abused by many. It's also helpful to hear someone set out the purpose of the genre, and why stories themselves are so important, as opposed to simply trying to get a "moral" across. The previously unpublished stories at the end will be delightful gems for any fan of his fiction.
Lewis’ short stories are interesting, but not exactly what one expects from this literary giant. The essays “On Stories” and “On Criticism” should be required reading for any aspiring author.
This collection is divided into essays and short stories by C.S. Lewis having to do primarily with fantasy, fairy tales and science fiction.
The grand idea of finding Atlantis which stirs us in the first chapter of the adventure story is apt to be frittered away in mere exciement when the journey has once been begun.
More quotes to come (when I have more time) for these essays:On Three Ways of Writing for ChildrenSometimes Fairy Stories May Say Best What's to be SaidOn Criticismand the interview, "Unreal Estates"
I will make some comments about the pieces I most enjoyed, and list some quotations from each."On Stories" is Lewis' quintessential essay about, well, the "story-ness" of stories; it may be likened to Tolkien's essay "On Fairy-Stories," which despite its narrower scope, covers many of the same ideas.
A few great quotes, completely out of context:(After describing a scene from Last of the Mohicans) "Dangers, of course, there must be: how else can you keep a story going?
Excellent series of essays on writing.The three short stories were great especially the one seen from the interior of a dull person....so freaky!
All in all, his essays were insightful, interesting, and their truthfulness resonated powerfully.That said, the fiction at the end read like a slap in the face in comparison to the beautiful arguments I had just been squealing about to everyone who would listen to me.Dude is sexist as hell.
Just the way that he talks about women is seriously disturbing because their value is entirely in the eye of their (male) beholder.In the first story, "The Shoddy Lands", the main character somehow finds himself inside his friend's girlfriend's mind, who he, upon first seeing, deems "neither very pretty nor very plain".
Small collection of a few essays and a few scraps of stories from Lewis.
There was cohesiveness in the essays, but not much unity in the choice of stories for this book.
"On Criticism" is also a nice little sardonic piece that I enjoyed as an English major.
He also plays with a piece set in the Iliad, "After Ten Years," which has Lewis's familiar conversationalist tone within the classic setting.There is much overlap between the essays here, and those in On Stories: And Other Essays on Literature.
There is hope for a man who has never read Malory or Boswell or Tristram Shandy or Shakespeare's Sonnets: but what can you do with a man who says he 'has read' them, meaning he has read them once, and things that this settles the matter?"Since reading this, I decided to continually go back and forth between reading new books and rereading books.
As I reread books which I had only read once, I found that Lewis was right.
It was almost like I was reading an entire new story.
This is definitely a book for Lewis lovers. As he's my favorite author, I really enjoyed this collection of essays and short stories, but they aren't him at his best. As an essayist, he's no Chesterton, and as a storyteller, he's no Tokien, and his best work is when his philosophy and storytelling intertwine ( The Screwtape Letters, The Great Divorce, Perelandra) which seems to work out better in a longer format. That said, his short story "The Form of Things Unknown" was freaking incredible and everyone should read it.
I wanted something short to read before drifting off to dreamland, and Lewis is always a great option (both his fiction and non-fiction).Wow- this was a great read.
Lewis also talks about his writing process for fiction and answers some of the critics of his works.
There are a few short story fragments that I've read in other books--but it was great to see them again.The very best part was a conversation that was recorded between Lewis and two friends.
It really showed me that Lewis was funny and that I would have loved to sit and talk with him.
Great start to the year!
This is an excellent example of Lewis as both a literary expert and a storyteller.
His essays of literary criticism are brilliant--ranging from a defense of one of his own novels to analyzing the importance of Story in and of itself in both literature and life.
His insights into writing stories from images that developed in his mind over time resonates with many of my own experiences (not in writing stories so much (yet), but in developing the germs of stories).The fiction in this selection is masterful, much of it not included in any other collections I have read.I highly recommend for any Lewis fan; whether you like him for his stories or his ideas, this book has something for you.

Gives Lewis' theories on childrens' story writing and fantasy and science fiction literature, all of which have dominated my own theories since I first read this some years ago.
Lastly, it includes some chapters of a darker type of book that Lewis put occasional work into: it was going to be the story of Helen and Menelaus after the fall of Troy.
The first chapter is spectacular, but it begins to fall apart quickly.
One can see why Lewis abandoned the project.
The first is Lewis' essays on writing, especially fiction, including his children's stories and science fiction.
The second half are short stories and fragments of stories Lewis wrote.
The first few essays in the beginning of the book are the best, or at least the ones I find most interesting.
As the book progresses, more of it is focused on his science fiction, which I've never found quite as arresting as his other works.
One shouldn't write merely for children, but write the sort of stories one likes to read best.
It's a disjointed collection, and rather odd as a whole, but very, very Lewis.
