https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28023.Images_and_Symbols
Too much theoretical reading lately (probably my next reading will be something lighter). I can blame that, ooooooor I can say I wasn’t fully satisfied with the book, which is not, of course, Mr. Eliade’s fault. Except for the shell’s myth (in most cultures the shell and the pearl are a symbol of procreation – the shell represents the vulva while the pearl represents the fetus; shells were also used in funeral processions plus magic and medicine, etc.) the others didn’t really get into me. I wish they did.
Iudeo-creștinismul este tradiția care a păstrat cel mai bine revelația lui Dumnezeu, celelalte tradiții denaturând-o, mutilând-o sau fiind capabile doar de o prezentare parțială a simbolurilor și a realității prin mituri.Limbajul este destul de dificil și unele fraze trebuie reluate de multe ori pentru a pătrunde sensul, dar cu un pic de atenție totul devine mai ușor.
În concluzie, pentru mine cartea a fost una foarte bună, deși necesită o pregătire prealabilă în domeniul istoriei religiilor.„Revelația dintâi, care s-a petrecut în zorii timpurilor, supraviețuiește încă printre popoare, dar pe jumătate uitată, mutilată, coruptă; singura cale care ne readuce la ea trece prin istoria lui Israel: revelația s-a păstrat deplină numai în cărțile sfinte ale Vechiului Testament.
Some excellent material on the symbol and its tracing (mostly transcendentally) in the history of religion, as well as on symbols themselves. Between these 2 sections (commencing and ending the book) lies a data-supported recap of Eliade's main ideas(Symbolism of the Centre, of Creation Waters, etc), which are also presented in one way or another in most of his books, which may lead to a weakening of the (familiar-with-the-author) reader's attention.
hilarious
"viața omului modern freamătă de mituri pe jumătate uitate, de hierofanii decăzute, de simboluri dezafectate. "
No solo me ha ayudado en cosas en las que estoy trabajando, sino que me ha llenado de mil y una ideas para el futuro, y pasarán los años y existirán otros después de él, pero no creo que se pueda olvidar como referencia en el estudio de las mitologíasy religiones desde un punto de vista filosófico.
Una relectura asegurada para el futuro, y un libro que tendré que poner en la carta a los reyes magos en las próximas navidades.(¡Nunca agradeceré suficientes veces a quien me dio la referencia de este libro!)
This is the first time I've read Eliade - profound and complex reading.
Jung quotes him often, thus my choice to read Mircea and discover the attraction.
His writing is not as clear as C.G.'s, but they make similar points; for example: "Each new valorisation of an archetypal Image crowns and consummates the earlier ones: the "salvation" revealed by the Cross does not annul the pre-Christian values of the Tree of the World, that pre-eminent symbol of the total renovatio; on the contrary, the Cross comes to complete all earlier valencies and meanings." (p 164) That sounds a bit Jungian, doesn't it?
Arjuna !Je me donne le droit maintenant de ne lire que les passages qui m'intéressent ...
ainsi en est-il allé pour Images et Symboles.
J'ai donc pris ce qui m'intéresse pour ma recherche sur le Wayang Gulit.
J'ai découvert le mythe bouddhiste d'Arjuna !
et j'en ressors avec de nouvelles questions : pourquoi Arjuna dans le jeu du Wayang ?
En territoire musulman voir hindou ?
Décidément cette Indonésie me fascine ...
Revenons à nos symboles.
Le mythe du temps, de la renaissance et de la nature est un passage vraiment très intéressant.
Un livre à relire en des temps moins pressés ....
Eliade dá ênfase a alguns simbolismos, como por exemplo, o simbolismo do Centro, da Árvore e do Tempo, principalmente nas comunidades primitivas da Índia. Aborda o simbolismo na História, além de tratar de questões de simbolismo e Imagem de maneira geral, algumas críticas à psicanálise lembram Bachelard. Foi issso aí que ficou.
Read sections (of the English version, which for some reason is not on Goodreads). Classic, and much more fun to read than current scholarship on religious antropology!.
Influência psicológica dos símbolos religiosos sobre nossas crenças
I really enjoyed this one, okay i was always interested in the themes about religion, history and philosophy, but in this one Eliade research religious symbolism very deep, also from philosophical and anthropological perspective.
In the book he mostly research symbolism found in Hinduism but also he mentions a lot Christian and European symbolism.
Many will find this book to be too teoretical yes it is not book for fun, but if you enjoyed thematics i mentioned above you must read this one, Eliade was defienetely one of the best researchers of the history of Religion, you will learn a lot of new things if you read his works.
Like most of Eliade's works this is erudite and interesting on a certain level (especially to those whose only encounters with mythology are from writers like Bulfinch or Frazer) but to me it was rather forgettable. An optional read, a good reference work perhaps, but not Eliade's best. A far better study of traditional symbolism is Rene Guenon's Fundamental Symbols (also published as Symbols of Sacred Science).
