https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770498.The_Puritan_Family
I read this wonderful examination of what life was like for "typical" Puritan family in the 1600s as research for a novel I'm writing. Actually, I reread it. I read it for the first time when I was in college. But it was every bit as interesting and eye-opening as when I read it over thirty years ago. Also? I loved seeing what I had underlined then. The Puritans were considerably more randy than we give them credit for today.
This book won't suit everyone -- especially anyone not particularly interested in this aspect of American history, which is the reason I gave it 4 rather than 5 stars.
But if you are interested at all, this is a book to read.
It is a shortish book (186 pp) divided into seven chapters: (1) Puritanism and Society; (2) Husband and Wife; (3) Parents and Children; (4) The Education of a Saint; (5) Masters and Servants; (6) The Family in the Social Order; and (7) Puritan Tribalism.
Servants were sort of 'half-children' and the master likewise was to treat them in a certain way and to ensure that they received education and his protection.
Edmund Morgan does a great job of showing the puritans and the heart behind what they did and why they lived the way they did.
This is a very touchy topic especially concerning the puritans because of how they are heralded as the gold standard of life and living in relation to God.The two lessons I walked away with are firstly that God created life with a hierarchy, not in the sense of power and domineering but in the sense of responsibility and duty.
Morgan showed this very well in the final chapter on Puritan Tribalism.
This is the best text I have read about the Puritans so far. Although short, every page is packed with meaningful evidence and conclusions. Mr. Morgan shares my approach to history: that one of the historian's primary duties is to investigate the uncomfortable cultural differences of the past until they are no longer strange. Puritan society appears rigid and fanatical to our modern eyes, but hidden beneath the surface is a culture of courage, hope, and selfless ideals.
Really fascinating! I didn't agree with some of the Puritan's doctrine though.
I am hesitant to comment too much on this book because my knowledge of this period of history is weak.
Instead it often produced affection and warmth.
Morgan argues that later Puritans stopped doing evangelism.
Instead they focused entirely on the children of believing parents.
This led to what Morgan calls "Puritan Tribalism." His final line in the book should make those of us who believe in covenant succession stop and think carefully about what we are doing.
"When theology became the handmaid of genealogy, Puritanism no longer deserved the name." Covenant succession is biblical.
This is a low-key book, sympathetic to its subject matter as many books about the Puritans are not. I found it useful for explanations of a number of things about the Puritans' conception of the family which I had not known; it dovetailed nicely withEntertaining Satan: Witchcraft and the Culture of Early New England in clarifying certain aspects of Puritan communities.
Very helpful information on Puritan family dynamics.
Excellent; it explains so much about the modern American Evangelical community, as well as what would become the philosophical basis for America itself.
This was too dry to be a good read. The title was fascinating to me, the contents were not.
