https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3392089-the-winter-sea
The character voices are real and rich with emotion, the intrigue is well done, and Kearsley put in so many historical facts that this wonderful fiction also acts as a sort of history lesson.
Let's face it, the conflicts between England and Scotland (especially those regarding the Stuart kings) are not easy to navigate, but Kearsley managed it with aplomb, giving life to these too-oft faceless historical figures so that it became a real story, not just dry facts from a history book.
If you like history, I think you'll like this book.
Sit back, enjoy, and be prepared to want to read it again as soon as you're finished.
the employment of a frame story - i'm pretty sure the conversation with her editor went something like this: sk: it's going to be two books in one!
the carrie bits soon turn into annoying interruptions that comprise of key moments like putting the kettle on or ignoring her breakfast of toast so that we don't forget about her when the book voices take over.2a.
it feels like a total copout - and, yeah, i get it, you write what you know, but this isn't her first book.
Update: 5/17/12 Rosalyn Landor has been nominated for the Audie Awards 2012 “Solo Narration-Female”  category for her narration of The Winter Sea.Slains Castle as it was in all its glory...Slains Castle now...★★★★☆ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I love to listen to the talented Rosalyn Landor read a book. Her elegant narration is perfect for this lyrical, atmospheric book. Ms. Landor does the accents nicely, especially the Scottish. She does a great job of the male and female voices in th
Some of you are definitely going to give this book a five star rating.This is a “parallel” manuscript, telling two stories 300 years apart, alternating between a contemporary setting and the past.
It wasn’t a lot of fun holding my breath, wondering which one was going to end badly (though I quickly figured it out).
Still, I ended up crying.Wonderful book!
So worth the listen.P.S. Also, while some people didn't, I liked the (view spoiler)[“ancestral memory” theory being innate in our DNA.
Kearsley deftly weaves together both historical and fictional characters in her novels, and invariably provides a detailed afterword where she explains the historical background and where she’s taken liberties with actual history in writing her story.The Winter Sea switches back and forth between Carrie’s story in modern times, researching and writing her novel and dealing with the competing romantic attentions of the two attractive sons of her Scottish landlord, and Sophia in the early 1700s, an orphaned young woman who has come to stay with her relatives at Slains Castle.
While I am VERY stingy about 5 star ratings and this is NOT the HEA I would have chosen, I confess that the author's meticulous research, beautiful prose, and riveting parallel storyline has won me over in the end.
Since I do not believe in "plot-spoiling" reviews, but try very hard to just give my thoughts on a book, I won't reveal what that "moment" was.
Suffice to say, however, I felt the action was so far out of character that I had a hard time believing in the ultimate HEA.
I’m glad in this ‘self published and write anything you want’ times, there are still author like Ms. Kearsley.
This type of book is very rare and that’s why, it made me more appreciate the throughly research work this author done for her story.I don’t know what more can I write here, there are more than 7000 reviews you can choose from:)But if you love excellent writing of a beautiful love story, you must read this.Highly recommended from me, oh one note, this is not a time travel story.You should read to find out why this book loves by so many readers!
I really disliked the plot device of cutting back and forth from the 18th to the 21st century.
The contemporary part of the story was dull and I didn’t care about the characters.
The use of “genetic memory” as a plot device didn’t justify the jarring lack of continuity either.
However, what bothered me the most was the lack of character development.
The author did a tremendous amount of historical research, and it shows in her meticulous attention to accuracy.
Yet, most of the details concerned atmospherics, the flow of events, and fidelity to the historic record, but didn’t add depth to our understanding of the characters.
Though I still have not quite sorted out The War of the Roses and that family mess, I’m getting there.So here I find myself, with a type of novel I have held no particular interest in for quite some time, a romance, that is saved by its historical context, and a touch of magic, or science, depending on how you look at it.
The first is that of Carrie, a historical fiction writer, who wants to tell the story of James Stewart, whose throne was stolen from him and his Jacobite supporters, especially Nathaniel Hooke.
In addition, Carrie's own life begins to mirror Sophia's.******The Winter Sea is a solid, historically replete novel featuring everything I've come to expect and admire from writer Susanna Kearsley:- Realistic characters you grow to like and relate to.- An intriguing storyline that maintains it's voice and consistancy throughout.- An understated love story without gratuitous sex or cheesy dialog.- A well researched historical novel that teaches and informs the reader without overwhelming them with dry facts and boring details.Kearsley's got a real talent for writing, and I don't mind admitting she has become one of my favorite new writers with a skill on par with the likes of Mary Stewart or Daphne duMaurier IMO.A solid 5 star book.
The novel is written in two parallel story lines (and romances!), with an author in the current day writing a historical novel about the Jacobite uprising in 1708, so that her main character's voice relates the events leading up to the uprising and the attempt to bring James Stewart to Scotalnd from his exile in France to claim the Scottish crown.
Suddenly with this new character in her mind she finds the words flowing onto the page as if she is channeling Sophia's thoughts and actions.I particularly enjoy a well researched historical novel that is based on real characters and historically accurate events.
Sophia is in reality Carrie's ancestor and the narration switches back and forth between present and past, creating two plots that come woven together in the end.The story is a compelling, lyrical and heartbreaking love story.
It is a bit heavy on the historical references but they're fundamental to the economy of the story and it might help if you're interested in that particular period.
(hide spoiler)]All in all a great and satisfying read I'd strongly recommend for those interested in this genre.
I will, without a doubt, read other books by this author in the future.
I can't understand/relate to a husband and wife who would just abandon their baby to another family like that.
Also, I can enjoy a good history lesson, but the way she droned on and on about the history of the region was hard to read.
Don't list facts to me for pages on end with no reference to any real characters in the book.
There were several conversations that took place that instead of actually having any dialogue she would just write about what a "dance" it was, and how many "twists and turns" the conversation took.
Unless you like dry history lessons and lack of substance when it comes to actual writing.
This is such a beautiful book. I've never seen dual storylines intertwined with such facility and elegance. Usually, when the author take this approach, one will be more appealing than the other, but both stories were fascinating. The historical detail was meticulous; the writing is lyrical and evocative. The characters feel real. This book made me cry. I would recommend it for readers of Diana Gabaldon. Yes, it's that good.
I know I've picked this book up several times with the intent to read it and it just didn't look all that compelling.
I'd read a kind of heavy, dark book though and needed something light.
She got the Scottish accents almost too perfect, they were a bit hard to understand at times, but mainly this was one character with a minor role who had a very deep accent.
At times, it was hard to believe a woman read the whole book.
I really enjoyed it, and thanks to everyone who encouraged me to read this.
Perfect book, exactly what I needed.
Listened to this one on audio for a challenge as the narrator won an Audie award for solo female narration.
I found the narrator boring and distracting, but I was determined to finish this book.The story itself is rich in history and mystery, set against a gorgeous background.
Parallel storylines cross paths from early 1700's the Jacobite uprising to present day author finding her characters' voices.
The characters were interesting, and I found myself wanting more from the present day story line rather than the one from the past.
It all comes together in a "too-neat" bow, and I'm happy to have finished my first Kearsley read.
She works best in isolation and frequently travels to the destinations featured in her novels to absorb the local flavor and engage in primary research for the events, history, and people that make up her stories.
On the advice of her agent, and the ethereal tugs she continues to feel herself, Carrie rents a tiny cottage on the coast and settles in to let the muse have her way with her.
I initially thought I would get bored with the ancestor Sophia's story, as I was immediately so caught up in Carrie's present-day tale.
THE WINTER SEA will appeal in spades to fans of Mary Stewart and Diana Gabaldon.
I have been hearing about this books for months in different groups I belong to, everyone who has read it saying they have absolutely loved it. Finally read it and loved it too. Such an interesting mix of history, genealogy, present and past, and romance, as I read I became totally immersed in both stories.Wonderful characters and I appreciated the fact that the author included a postscript detailing exactly which characters and what part of the story was actually historical fact.
The other concentrates upon the female historical fiction writer who makes her way to Slains, the exact castle where her female protagonist (a real figure, in the book) used to live, starts writing her story, and realizes that it might be more historically accurate than she thought.The point is, notwithstanding the "channeling" done by the modern-day writer, there's not much plot in her part of the story, which takes at least a measly 200 pages out of the total 576.
***** 5 Stars ***** "For if there was no winter, we could never hope for spring." I'm speechless. I didn't think I'd end up enjoying this book, but I became obsessed with the romance and history. Carrie is a talented author working on her next novel. As she's traveling around, she feels an odd pull towards the ruins of Slains Castle. A pull so strong, she stops everything to focus on its past. Throughout her research, she receives unexplainable memories and dreams about the past.... Sophie's pas
I didn't think I'd end up enjoying this book, but I became obsessed with the romance and history.
As she's traveling around, she feels an odd pull towards the ruins of Slains Castle.
A pull so strong, she stops everything to focus on its past.
Throughout her research, she receives unexplainable memories and dreams about the past....
Sophie's past.
This book involves two stories.
Two stories that I found to be equally addicting.
I've shed actual tears reading this.
It's full of romance and heartbreak.
I can't wait to read her other books!
(view spoiler)[Is Carrie the reincarnation of Sophia and is Graham Moray?
(hide spoiler)] It could go either way really, Miss Kearsley lets you decide for yourself as you are reading.
At times, she had to make tough choices...
(hide spoiler)]And when (view spoiler)[it was revealed Moray was alive, I did a happy dance :-D (hide spoiler)]A hint at the end regarding Graham and his family had me thinking...
if it's what I thought before *points above* and what I'm thinking now (view spoiler)[them being descended from Kirsty's family and Moray's soul being reborn in his body (hide spoiler)]...
The narrator is an author writing a historical novel about a failed Jacobite rebellion which took place in 1708.
There is also a third person narrative set in 1708, which is the novel being written by the first person narrator.
However, there are some features of the novel which I found less successful, in particular, the concept of genetic memory, which is the device used to link the present-day first person narrative with the third person historical narrative.
This is a novel I probably would have liked much more had I been familiar with the history with which it deals, or the location in which it is set.
3.3 stars Where’e’er I go, my Soul shall stay with thee:’Tis but my Shadow that I take away;’ First off, the delicious history in this was my favorite part. I loved how the author intertwined real historical events and people while adding artistic flair. Amazing. Far more than most of my friends have rated this very highly, and the writing definitely deserves it. Unfortunately, while I loved the history and writing quality, the back and forth past and present perspectives didn't fully gel with m
Unfortunately, while I loved the history and writing quality, the back and forth past and present perspectives didn't fully gel with me.
Until the 50% point I felt it pretty jarring and after that, I was resentful whenever I had to leave either story (the present day romance and hero ended up feeling very underdeveloped); they were both so well done I wanted the focus solely on one.
(view spoiler)[As soon as our present day heroine read that past heroine married another dude, I had the thought that it was still the hero (we already had the info that he was a wanted man).
This is the story about an author named Carrie, who writes historical fiction novels.
She travels to Scotland to research Slains Castle for her newest novel and to spend some time with her editor who lives there.
She is actually remembering the life of her ancestor, Sophie Paterson and her marriage to John Murray.
While writing her book she meets a man named Graham and a romance starts.
I enjoyed reading about Carrie's romance, but reading the parts that were Carrie's book bored me.
In the end it turns out that Graham is actually a descendant of Sophie Patterson as well.
Carrie and Graham are kissing cousins!
I typically find myself just wanting to get back to the past, but with Kearsley I am happy to follow the present as well.This story begins with Carrie McClelland, who is writing a historical novel set in 1708 and dealing with the failed attempt to put James Stewart back on the throne in Scotland.
The novel is meant to be about Nathaniel Hooke, an Irishman who is in the thick of the action at the time, but when Carrie decides to include a character named after her own ancestor, Sophia Paterson, she seems to lose control of the story to the events of the past.
THE WINTER SEA (Dual-period novel/Romance-Carrie McClelland-Scotland-Cont/1708) - Ex Kearsley, Susanna – Standalone Allison & Busby, Ltd., 2008, UK Hardcover – ISBN: 9780749080976 First Sentence: It wasn’t chance.Bestselling author Carrie McClelland comes from France, where she is working on a book related to the 1708 attempted return of James Stewart to regain his throne.
Deciding to move from France to Scotland, she rents a cottage new Slain and finds her connection to the old castle is closer even than her ancestor who once lived there.This is not a gothic, time travel or a torrid romance.
I had not read a book set in Scotland before and was eager to get started on this novel after reading the fascinating blurb.
The ultimate betrayal that happened all those years ago and that knowledge comes very close to destroying her"The setting and mood of this novel is wonderful and I would have to congratulate the author on creating such wonderful settlings and giving the reader such vivid descriptions of characters and scenery, I for one was in the settling of all these scenes and had clear images of Slains Castle in my head and really enjoyed this aspect of the novel so much.This is a really well researched novel about the Jacobite Rebellion.
For some reason this one was hard for me to get into. However, as the book progressed I enjoyed the storyline more. I love historical fiction, but this felt like I had a history lesson that wasn't any too interesting jammed down my throat. I like it pureed into a smoothie so I barely know I'm learning anything nutritious. Yum. Smoothie. Sweet story but not the best I've read.
At length, at length, I have thee in my Arms; Tho' our Malevolent Stars have struggled hard, And held us long asunder. -John Dryden's King Arthur.  What a fabulous book... or should I say book inside a book? Which apparently is based on real life? If you like romance and you like history.. you will love this. I can't believe it's taken me this long to read it. And of course, it's sparked another urge to return to Scotland. I'm afraid I'll just have to move there someday. I highly recommend thi
At length, at length, I have thee in my Arms; Tho' our Malevolent Stars have struggled hard, And held us long asunder. -John Dryden's King Arthur.
  
What a fabulous book... or should I say book inside a book? Which apparently is based on real life? If you like romance and you like history.. you will love this. I can't believe it's taken me this long to read it. And of course, it's sparked another urge to return to Scotland. I'm afraid I'll just have to move there someday. I highly recommend this one.
The description of this book is accurate but doesn't come close to describing the rich characters, Scottish history and atmosphere that Susanna Kearsley brings to her readers.
The sign of a good book.Kearsley's writing is rich in detail creating a vivid atmosphere for her story to unfold.
Kearsley explains some of the Jacobite history without a huge info dump while still keeping in line with her story.
Readers will enjoy reading the appendix at the end of the book where Kearsley explains which characters and events within her book are based on historical fact.
I don't usually go for time travel themes, especially romances - this author is a RITA award winner - and I find it odd that time travel writers seem to always end up in Scotland.....but all in all, this was very readable and the time travel thing was handled in a way that demanded willing suspension of disbelief - but not so far that it became impossible.
The time travel was presented as a kind of genetic memory that a return to places known in her past brought forth for the heroine.
Of course she ends up with the perfect man and all ends happily; it is a romance.
