https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363026.Dark_Gods
First, I would like to say thank you to my friend Ryan Cagle for so kindly sending me a copy of this book. Thanks, Ryan!Second, this collection of 4 novellas was a find example of literary horror fiction. The stories were well written, dripping with creepy atmosphere, and thought provoking. There were some Lovecraftian references that I enjoyed, as well as a few shudder provoking scenes; most especially with the first novella, Children of the Kingdom. Well done!Highly recommend for fans of literary horror fiction!
Dark Gods is a collection of novellas that bring to mind something that I could imagine HP Lovecraft writing if he was a baby boomer.
Because I think T.E.D. Klein has a subtle, grounded approach that distances him from Lovecraft's style in a crucial way for this reader.
This story makes me think that Klein writes in a subversive way to bring race relations to the reader's mind and to make one consider how absurd racism (largely due to unfounded fears behind it) is.
Klein shows just how different his writing is from Lovecraft, even with a story that could have come out of the master of horror's imagination.
This is more like it!
It was reading "Black Man with a Horn" for what I thought was the second time but was actually the first that drove me to pick this up.
I was pretty sure I'd read it before, but I turned out to be dead wrong.
Everything in it was new to me (except "Black Man," which I'd just read in The Book of Cthulhu), and everything in it was pretty much superb.Now if someone would just package these up with "Events at Poroth Farm" and then take my money, please.
Four horror novellas that were influenced by the works of H.
One of the better examples of this horror sub-genre.Children of the Kingdom - 4 stars.
Set during the 1977 Blackout.Petey - 3 stars.
Revenge for a shady real estate deal.Black Man With a Horn - 3 and 1/2 stars.
P. Lovecraft finds himself in a real-life drama involving characters from a Lovecraft story.Nadelman's God - 4 stars.
An old occult poem, written by Nadelman back in his college days as an act of rebellion, is taken very seriously by a fan who's into witchcraft.
The lack of T.E.D. Klein material out there is one of the grave sadnesses of the publishing world.
He's not a particularly prolific author, I'll grant that - a handful of stories and a single (great) novel over 30 years is not exactly a Dickensian output.
But it should really all be in print, starting with this.
Four novellas that surpass the normal expectations of "horror fiction" by being smart, original and genuinely unsettling.
It contains "Children of the Kingdom," set during New York's apocalyptic summer of 1977, and the eerie meditation on mortality "Black Man With a Horn," which uses postmodern pastiche techniques in its loving homage to Lovecraft.
Love this book. Mr. Klein, if you read this, please write more. Horror fans need you.
Four beautiful literate longer horror stories, each one a modern classic. If all horror writers were like this the genre would become accepted as true literature.
One of the very best collections of horror short stories I've ever read. I think short stories are where Klein really shines, which makes sense, since there are many who say that horror works best in the short form. Unfortunately, this is pretty much it for Klein. I wish he would of written more.
I came across the story Petey in another anthology and I tapped out too early I guess because I keep coming across good reviews that make me doubt my choice.
If that goes well, I'll read the others also.Petey Upon re-read, I can see why I quit last time.
Then more interesting things start coming out.
I had come across it in Shadows 2 previously which seems like a book of short stories, no wonder this novella seemed skippable.Done.
Just not in the mood, I and am feeling a bit burnt out on short stories at the moment.
Fantastic short stories. T.E.D. Klein said,"I will do anything to NOT write." Unfortunately, he created his own fate, and we are only left with 1 novel and this collection of unbelievable short stories.
I thought that it was missing a page somehow..." Now that I think back I thought it ended like the first.
Almost every horror writer knows Lovecraft.
Most of our contemporaneous writers of horror have written something with a lovecratian theme.
I think so.They use but create something new.
Then the story change to a kind of detective tale and the ending was equal to many the master created.
So what makes it more "real" than a horror writer creating a being and setting loose on a world?
Perhaps there’s no better example of the spirit of this revival though than here in Dark Gods, a 1985 collection of four short stories by T.E.D. Klein which reads like a veritable love letter to the heydays of supernatural and weird fiction.That in itself wouldn’t count for much unless the work was quality, and I’m pleased to say that quality is here in abundance.
In this case it’s put towards the tale of a handful of characters going about their unremarkable lives around the time of the New York City blackout of 1977.Speaking of James, his literary spectre haunts the second story ‘Petey’.
This is of course a rather Lovecraftian notion, but instead of piling on the horror Klein instead offers us good-natured, rather urbane and witty characters who only gradually realise that something has gone awry with the world.Spoilerish bits follow...'Black Man With a Horn' is almost a straight Lovecraft tribute, as an elderly man discovers that one of the standard tropes of the famous Mythos seems to be founded on a real - and very nasty - tribal custom.
During a blackout, as society degenerates into chaos, the bizarre 'legend' becomes all-too-believable.'Nadelman's God' is about a regular guy who, when he was young and foolish, wrote a rather pretentious poem about dark and dangerous gods.
I give this collection of four novellas seven stars. I have read and reread them over the years, and they remain masterpieces of deep yet understated horror. The combination of Lovecraftian scope with minute contemporary detail and character-driven narrative is breath-taking. I especially admire Klein's settings -- I could live in the house described in "Petey," for example, and I feel that dreadful Florida humidity on my skin in "Black Man with a Horn."Truly, Klein's work is an inspiration.
I have wanted to read this book for a few years now, and it has not disappointed!Dark Gods is a collection of 4 stories that could be classed as weird fiction / horror.
This is nothing less than a 5 star read.Children of the Kingdom wasn't what I expected going into the collection, but the last 25% of the story was completely different to the rest and was very chilling.
The third story, Black Man with a Horn, was my least favourite in this collection.
The final story, Nadelman's God, has to be one of my favourite stories I've read.
Classic collection of four literate horror novellas, including the well regarded Black Man with a Horn and sorely underrated slow-burn chiller Petey, which I particularly adore.
Klein's philosophy is certainly fatalistic, but he crafts his tales with black humor and full-blown characters to whom most readers can relate.In regards to "Dark Gods," simply reading "Black Man with a Horn" is worth the price of the collection.
If you are a fan of Lovecraftian fiction, you will find no better writer than Klein.Sadly, Klein's output is limited to "Dark Gods," "The Ceremonies," and "Reassuring Tales." From what I understand, Klein suffers from writer's block and will probably never publish any more fiction.
Fantastic collection of 4 terrifying novellas.
At various points these pieces teeter between boring and terrifying.
It's interesting to reflect on just how much of the strength of these stories lies on the sentence-by-sentence level.
Also notable is Klein's evocation of New York city its environs.
A native New Yorker, he does a wonderful job of making the city in the 70s come alive.Anyway, if you like a good horror story I can't recommend this book enough.
There's a certain shock factor involved, of course, but a good horror story needs more than that to really work.The characters, the city life, friendships, and the rest home were all very well described, and I enjoyed the tale mainly because of these elements.
The "alternate evolution theory" presented by Father Pistachio was fascinating too, and I did enjoy that it is hinted (suggested through actions, mainly) that this is what is behind the dark deeds going on.
Seemed to me this story would have won by elaboration, expansions, on various points.
I hope the next story, "Petey," is better.
I was excited to read this book because Klein is so highly reccomended by many authors I like (thomas Ligotti, Ramsey Campbell, etc.) but I was a little underwhelemed by these stories as works of terror.
They are all intelligently written but forgettable and not particuluarly scary.
The scariest story "Petey" comes accompanied with such a hamfisted attempt at satire that it is also the most difficult to get through.Klein has a social conscience that belies his stated intention to merely entertain the reader.
I enjoyed all 4 novellas; "Children of the Kingdom" probably being my favorite.
Now why is it that Stephen King is still churning out his novels that I no longer read and Klein suffers from writers block?
The injustice of it all.....During my 2018 Rocktober Horror Reads I revisited this classic.
At mid-life, Nadelman's God has taken over as my fave of the four novellas.
Probably because at my age I can sit back and say, "I can think of all kinds of uses for a 'servant' like that; too bad Nadelman was so squeamish about it!"
This collection of four novellas, by the former editor of "The Twilight Zone" magazine, relies on subtlety and psychology rather than gore for its unnerving effects.
Some elements seem dated now (these were written about 30 years ago), but not in a bad way.
I give this 4 rather than 5 stars because of Klein's overreliance on Africa and Asia as the source of horror: he's got plenty of company in this regard, and his white narrators don't come off unscathed either, but it's still rather off-putting.
This book is composed of four excellent novellas: The Children of the Kingdom, Petey, Black Man with a Horn, and Nadelman's God. Just reread it a week or so ago and it's still one of my faves. Each tale is smoothly written, scary, intelligent, thought-provoking and totally involving. The fact that T.E.D. Klein has written little else since this book and his sole novel, The Ceremonies, were published back in the late 80s is a crying shame. I recommend both to anyone who likes really good weird/horror fiction.
Four mostly brilliant novellas that really go for the slow-burn horror. Some of the endings are a little problematic, particularly Nadelman's God, which seems cut short before anything of merit happens. My favourite of the four was Petey, which really gets under the skin and ends right at the reveal, and with a pretty interesting - and vaguely rendered - monster.
This is one of my favorite collections, and I generally dislike most everything. If you want to hear a pretty in-depth discussion of each story in this collection, check out my podcast, where we do two whole episodes on the book.http://nachonomics.com/hnh/2016/4/1/e...http://nachonomics.com/hnh/2016/4/6/e...
"Nadelman's God" might be one of my favorite horror short stories of all time, but everything else in this book is also great. I wish he'd written more. Does anyone have a link to his essay / reminiscence on meeting Robert Aickman?
✭✭✭✭“Children of the Kingdom”(1980) ✭✭✭✭“Petey”(1979) ✭✭✭✭“Black Man with a Horn” (1980) ✭✭✭✭✭“Nadelman’s God” (1985) ✭✭✭✭✭
✭✭✭✭½“Children of the Kingdom”(1980) ✭✭✭✭“Petey”(1979) ✭✭✭✭“Black Man with a Horn” (1980) ✭✭✭✭✭“Nadelman’s God” (1985) ✭✭✭✭✭
This is a wonderful, creepy collection. I enjoyed it a lot!
This is a great October spooky read.
Each is well built and brings the reader on a fun journey only to end with a wink or tip of the hat at how the finishes without actually finishing it.
This works great sometimes and is fine here but I won't say that's it's better than actually writing a nicely wrapped up ending.From the four stories you'll discover ancient gods, a yuppie house warming party, an old time horror writer turned detective, and an ad man turned with an interesting fan.The last story, Nadelman's God was my favorite.
This is the most terrifying book I've ever read. All four stories are masterpiece. My favorite is Nadelman’s God. This story gives us the reason why this world is full of wicked and sad things. Our negative feeling may mar the whole universe.
