https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/707060.The_Good_Terrorist
And she loathes capitalism, although she’s all too ready to steal cash and valuables from her parents and their friends.What’s remarkable is that Lessing lets us see things through Alice’s perspective, but also shows us how appalling her behaviour is on a human level.
One of the most disturbing things about the book is how the revolutionaries don’t care about human life, only their own needs.
(Comrades, indeed.) Alice does, but is it because she’s “well brought up,” earning that adjective in the book’s title?This book is proof that you don’t necessarily have to like a book’s characters to be engrossed by them.
And the mother, Dorothy...maybe The Wizard of Oz, or Dorothy Causabon(view spoiler)[ because what's a book without a Middlemarch reference (hide spoiler)]?Alice and her mates squatting in a North London house scheduled for demolition talk of overthrowing 'the system', meaning something along the lines of Patriarchal, fascist, racist, sexist, capitalism (view spoiler)[ and why not, in for a penny, in for a pound.
The surprising thing is that Lewis lived though WW II, and was writing not that long after the Nuremberg trials, which, I thought at least, ought to have established for that generation that it's not sufficient merely to say that one was obeying orders.Lewis gets away with it, at least as far as some people are concerned, partly because you aren't shown any direct chain of cause and effect between Puzzle's actions and the reign of terror those actions unleash.
So it seemed natural to me to think that someone ought to write a book that filled in the gaps, portraying a not overly bright but essentially kind and well-meaning person who inadvertently and largely unknowingly finds themselves serving evil.

So I won't focus on those points, other than to say that yes, Doris Lessing does them full justice without being the least bit hamhanded.Many of the Goodreads reviews of this book have mentioned how difficult it is to enjoy a book whose characters are so unlikable.
The difference is that Jackson's work is peopled with dozens of characters, every one of whom is at least off-putting and many of whom are positively repulsive.
Like many women of her generation, she realizes too late that the ordinary choices she made -- not going on to university, marrying very young -- doomed her to a life she's determined her own daughter won't repeat.
Armchair critic I may be, but as a member of a settler state, I am aware of how easily my death (among many) could appear in a chapter that touched upon "The Driving out of the Invaders of the North Americas" in the longer history of things, if the continent would even still be termed said Eurocentric such.
Those who see politics as useless, solely the fault of the populace, a mass hallucination of the young, a laughable thought of community in the state of supreme individualism, or solely the act of voting, walk away.
أنا بحب النوعية دي من الكتابات , النوعية النسوية المبهرة , اللي بتكتب عن النساء كقضية حق لابد من الا
Since that's never stopped me before, here goes.I must applaud Lessing for her skill at creating characters, Alice in particular, who are utterly annoying, petulant, stupid, dangerously immature, and appallingly destructive.
oh, I don't know...quaintly simplistic, I guess.The greater accomplishment was the extremely compelling dynamic between the unpleasantness of the characters, the stupidity and hypocrisy of their minor acts of vandalism and thievery and their own petty conflicts with each other versus the stumbling but inexorable march, despite being barely capable of getting themselves arrested along the way, to the final, bloody conclusion.I found the black humour throughout extremely satisfying--visible only now, with some distance and thinking back on what Lessing's true achievement was here.
"Die gute Terroristin ist eine dramatische und literarisch aufregende Mischung aus Thriller, Gesellschaftsroman, Zeitgemälde und einem glühenden Plädoyer, dem Terror endlich eine endgültige Absage zu erteilen."Meine Meinung: Ein sprödes langweiliges nichtssagendes Werk in dem gehirntote gelangweilte Kinder der Oberschicht mit einem ausreichenden sozialen Netz a bissi rebellieren, Kommunismus und Arbeiterklasse spielen, alle verachten (auch jene Arbeiter, für die sie zu kämpfen vorgeben), blöde Parolen von Faschisten und Klassenkampf klopfen, die Eltern beklauen, demonstrieren, a bissi dilletantisch Bombenattentate ausführen...
"آليس" فتاة تجاوزت منتصف الثلاثينات ، ذات هشاشةٍ تدفعها لإرضاء الجميع و إطعامهم و إراحتِهم ، تقوم بإ
Her co-revolutionaries are all freeloading under-achievers like Alice, the difference being that she could easily make something of her life, while most of her "comrades" are just plain losers.But amidst all their "organizing" and "protesting" and "sticking it to the fat capitalist pigs," a plan gradually emerges to work with either the IRA or with their revolutionary Russian comrades.
ففي الوقت الذي يدّعون فيه استغلال الدولة للشعب، يستغلون هم بدورهم "رفيقتهم" أليس بكل شكل ممكن، آليس التي كان عليها الاعتناء بكل شيء بدءًا من تحويل المنزل المهجور من حظيرة أو مكب نفايات إلى منزل لائق، وانتهاء بتوفيرها المال دون أن يفكر أحدهم بالمساهمة بذلك، أو حتى بالعمل لتأمينه...
لم تفعل أليس شيئًا سوى أنها كررت أخطاء أمها التي كانت تعتني بالآخرين (حتى آليس) على حساب نفسها مما اضطرها إلى بيع بيتها لاحقًا.
بدت أليس -التي عبرت عن قلة قراءاتها - أكثر إيمانًا بمبادئ توجهها السياسي من رفاقها الذين قرؤوا كثيرًا، فقد أقدمت على التغيير أكثر من مرة (البيت، جيم، مونيكا، فيليب) في الوقت الذي كان فيه الآخرون يجلسون مكتوفي الأيدي بحجة انشغالهم بالقضية، غير أن ذلك ليس سوى مبرر للكسل والفشل.
Anyways, this is a review of the book that I picked up after those two hundred, unsatisfying pages, suddenly feeling like I needed to really let my mind settle into fiction again.The book was The Good Terrorist by Doris Lessing.There is much to be said about this book and its exploration of terrorism in the late twentieth century.
Lessing clearly recognized that they needed to be well-developed because, in the end, not much really happens in this book.
But Alice, above all others in this novel, may be one of the great characters of all the novels I have read.
Alice, intelligent but consumed by her hatred of her parents, narrates this tale of pathetic naive idiocy as the band of brave class struggle warriors attempt to form dangerous alliances with the IRA and the Soviet Union.
Lessing said that if she wrote the book now it would have a religious rather than political dimension.
My one complaint - this book is so consumed with its attack that it forgets to depict any positive aspects to progressive politics - there are no sympathetic characters, no-one working for real change, which as we know, so many genuinely want to fight for.

آليس علاقتها المتزعّزعة مع والديّها ، لا تجد ما تفعله سوى البحث عن ملجأ ، لذلك نجدها تتصرف في كل موقف و هي بالفعل كانت قادرة على حل كل المشكلات و التصرف بشكل لائق ، كالأم الحنون ، تقول دوريس ليسنغ عن بطلتها : " هذا التخطيط المفصل و الترتيب كان يجعلها تشعر بأنها أفضل حالا .
كان هذا هو ما تبرع فيه ، كانت تشعر بأنها تسيطر على كل شيء مرة واحدة .
That restless, angular, off-putting voice, I soon realised, not only conveys the world, ‘raw and dismal’, through Alice’s eyes, but also Alice and her world through Lessing’s.
The book was criticised in the NYT for not allowing Alice greater self-awareness, but the situation she creates for herself was highly unlikely to permit that – the greater the violence one indulges in, the more one needs to defend one’s behaviour.
In a sense a disquisition on social and political violence, the book prises open a jarring complex of abusive behaviours - state violence, childhood trauma, emotional blackmail, terrorist atrocity - and tracks their mutual dependence.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Episode 1 of 2A band of inept revolutionaries in a London squat are trying to court the IRA while Alice is homemaking. Stars Olivia Vinall.Episode 2 of 2Faye is found bleeding after a suicide attempt, but Alice has promised not to involve the authorities.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b09s...
هذا الكتاب بائس فعلًا .يتحدث عن مجموعة احداث يومية لمجموعة ثوّار (هواة بالطبع) من وجهة نظر أليس ولا بأس في ذلك لكن الترجمة قتلت اسلوب دوريس ليسنج جدًا ! اسلوب باهت .الشيء الوحيد الجيد فيه كان قدرة أليس على توقع الشخصيات بدقة والباقي مضجر .اعتذر لكن سحر توفيق لم تكن موفقة في الترجمة .
I hated this damn book. I was forced to read it for class, and now I have to write a fucking 10-page paper on it by Wednesday. Every page was torturous to read. Nothing happened until the very end, and even that sucked. I recommend that you never read this book. There was not one character or plot line worth investing a second of your life on. Thanks for listening.
For the last 39 pages Alice has behaved like a fool; begging for handouts from her parents (50 pounds), verbally and nearly physically abused by her petulant, idiotic boyfriend Jasper and being generally annoying in her naïve belief that the council will ever take the side of some scruffy-looking squatters over the chance to make more money.
The other inhabitants of No. 43 just seem to be playing at the game of being revolutionaries - going to the picket line because it's fun, or it's the least that's expected of a CCU member, doing small stuff like getting arrested at a protest rally - while Alice sits at home cleaning up the squat and putting on an innocuous, mothering front.
My mother and I have resolved to read prize-winners.
In the future, you may expect more reviews of prize-winners from me, and when you see me reviewing non--prize-winners, you will either know that I am CHEATING on my mother, or that I am taking advantage of the ambiguities and catch-savers in our resolution.This being said, The Good Terrorist, by Nobel-Prize winner Doris Lessing, is the first book that I've read that is a product of our resolution.
This book tells the story of a hopelessly contradicted young middle-class British woman named Alice, set in Thatcherite London.
اوایل کار، سخت بود خواندن این کتاب برای من.
یعنی خیلی کند بود و شخصیتها همه روی اعصاب بودند.
سردرگمی عجیبی هست و شخصیت آلیس هم که درست از آن آدمهایی هستند که با طرز تفکر و اعمالشان حرص من را درمیآورند.
البته ماجرا رفتهرفته جالبتر شد و به نظرم پایانبندی خوبی داشت.فکر میکنم نویسنده به عمد از این شیوهی روایت استفاده کرد تا با زبان بیزبانی نظر خود را در مورد این شخصیتها و این طور اعمال بگوید.
اسم کتاب هم که فکر میکنم تا حدودی گویاست.این کتاب البته یک جورایی هم در تأیید نظر شخصی خودم است که صرف داشتن
اوایل کار، سخت بود خواندن این کتاب برای من.
یعنی خیلی کند بود و شخصیت‌ها همه روی اعصاب بودند.
البته ماجرا رفته‌رفته جالب‌تر شد و به نظرم پایان‌بندی خوبی داشت.فکر می‌کنم نویسنده به عمد از این شیوه‌ی روایت استفاده کرد تا با زبان بی‌زبانی نظر خود را در مورد این شخصیت‌ها و این طور اعمال بگوید.
اسم کتاب هم که فکر می‌کنم تا حدودی گویاست.این کتاب البته یک جورایی هم در تأیید نظر شخصی خودم است که صرف داشتن نیت خوب باعث بهبود اوضاع نمی‌شود، بلکه مهم‌تر از آن واقع‌گرایی و داشتن درک درست و واقع‌گرا (نه ایده‌آل) از شرایط است
..قرأتها وأنا انتظر حدوث شيء يُغَيِّر وجهة نظري بها ولكن هذا مالم يحدث الرواية مُملة النجمتين هنا للبيت " بطل الرواية الفعلي " فقط ....#أبجدية_فرح #إنستقرام .
The Observer wrote about this book that: 'Doris Lessing writes about the parts that other novelists cannot reach', and I would have to agree.
Her characterisation is so in-depth and subtle, and written in such plain language that you almost have a deep therapist-like knowledge of the main character.
I will stress that this was because of the subject matter and not Lessing's amazing skills as a writer.
I would have liked the story to move a little faster, or for some characters to have a moment of realisation, but I know that this would have sacrificed the realism of the novel.
I read this whole thing on a plane from Helsinki to New York.THE STYLE.
I don't think I've ever read a book that does quite what this one does with style.
Alice Mellings is appreciably manic in a way that's absolutely intentional, and yet that is and isn't what the book is about.
I skimmed the other goodreads reviews and yet didn't see one that touched on the possibility of Alice having a mental illness, which is something I thought of nearly immediately upon picking up the book.
I have no idea if that's intentional or not.
Book Club pick for April.
80's London--what a different place!
Frustrating book, the main character is so annoyingly misguided and she makes us worry about all sorts of things that aren't her problem.
It doesn't really get any better.
At the end it is revealed that what's her name (pretty bad when I can't remember the main character's name one week after I finish the book) is basically nuts, but what about all the other characters?
I think it would have been a better short story.
I will try something else by Lessing--a sort of disappointing introduction, though.
https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b09s...Description: The Good Terrorist follows Alice Mellings, a woman who transforms her home into a headquarters for a group of radicals who plan to join the IRA.
As Alice struggles to bridge her ideology and her bourgeois upbringing, her companions encounter unexpected challenges in their quest to incite social change against complacency and capitalism.
With a nuanced sense of the intersections between the personal and the political, Nobel laureate Doris Lessing creates in The Good Terrorist a compelling portrait of domesticity and rebellion.Good to encounter now that Brexiteers are steering to tear open hard fought peace - learn from history.The Clash2* Golden Notebook2* The Fifth Child3* The Grass Is Singing3* The Good Terrorist
The Good Terrorist  is Alice Mellings, a mid-thirties London radical who puts her heart and soul into restoring a derelict home as the base for her group, part of the Communist Centre Union, a small political party of activists in the middle of Thatcherism in Britain, who aspire to join the IRA (or even the Soviets). Alice blazes with energy and bursts with conflicts. She passionately declares she HATES the middle-class that serves the “shitty fucking filthy lying cruel hypocritical system”, bu
Conflict and ambiguity is also the focal point of the book in general: collective interest against personal ambitions, revolutionaries versus the upper-class and actuality against idealism.That’s not to say that Alice and her comrades are stupid or unsure of what they are after; they know what they are after, but sometimes people get caught in the web of the 
They’re not stupid; they are naive.In the context of the above, what I found unique about this book is that the portrayal of the complex and contradictory personality that is Alice Mellings goes to incredible depth and that’s done 
رغم الفارق الواسع بين تجربة شهلا أو وردة المناضلة الاشتراكية اليمنية فى الجهاد الثورى ضد الامبريالية الانجليزية وعملاءها المحليين فى صحراء ظفار خلال الستينات الماضية فى رواية وردة لـ صنع الله إبراهيم، وتجربة الانجليزيّة أليس ميلينجز ومجموعتها من الثوريين الاشتراكيين الهواة فى شوارع لندن خلال الثمانينيات الماضية فى "الإرهابية الطيبة" لـ دوريس ليسنج..
رغم الفارق الواسع بين التجربتين إلا أن نقطتين جوهريتين تجمع بينهما..
يتجلى هذا بوضوح فى تساؤل وردة المرير بعد سنوات طويلة من المعارك وحروب العصابات "إلى متى؟!" وحديث دوروثى ميلينجز (والدة أليس) مع زوى ديفلن رفيقة عمرها "سأقول لكِ شيئاً يا زوى، أنتم جميعاً تذهبون فى مسيرات هنا وهناك، وترفعون لافتات وتغنون أغنيات قصيرة مؤثرة (كل ما تحتاج هو الحب)..
