https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1749940.The_Land_of_Green_Ginger
The 1975 version is nowhere near as much of a pleasure to read aloud, and dress-up and act to; though the removal of much capitalisation can, for some, make it considerably easier (if less colourful in the imagination) to read silently.For example:“Every afternoon, just before Silver Bud went for her Daily Walk around the Lily Pond, Sulkpot Ben Nagnag’s Special Guards, armed with large knives and long spears, marched round the Garden, and at every hundred paces – which the Captain of the Guard counted loudly under his breath – a Guard was left on duty.
This may be a pointless review.
The copy I have is an original 1937 edition which, so far as I know, is the only one to contain the beautiful original colour illustrations by the author.Many (if not all) paperback editions may also have a different ending, which is unforgivable - there was nothing wrong wit the original.The book tells of the adventures of Abu Ali, the son of Aladdin, who has become the Emperor of China.
It strength lies in the wonderful characters that people the book, from the young djinn, Boomalakka Wee to the wicked princes Tintac Ping Foo and Rubdub ben Thud.It's a delight - in the original edition.
Just to be clear, I am talking about the 2015 reprinted edition of the 1966 version of this book!The Land of Green Ginger is a wonderful children's book, and as an added bonus makes for a wonderful adult book as well.
But like the Land of Green Ginger itself, the book floated away somewhere while I wasn't paying attention, and only the fragrant memory remained.
In essence, The Land of Green Ginger picks up the story of Aladdin after he was married and living happily ever after.
Might sound a lot for a falling apart paperback, but considering that the only other copy I've found for sale (of the 1966 text) is listed at £40 then I think it was a bargain.I've also got a copy of the 1975 text for comparative reading, but I doubt I'll be able to get a hold of a copy of the original 1937 text without considerable expense.
I'd love to be able to read the original text someday.As for the story itself, I'm unsure if I've read it before, if I've ever had it read to me, or if I've just known about it for so long that I feel like I must've read it.
Brilliant; and unbelievably good to read aloud.
Edward Ardizzone's illustrations are superb (b/w in the text, plus colour on the front & back covers).Should I be stuck on a desert island with just the Bible (KJV), the Works of William Shakespeare, and one other book to read; then I'm pretty sure that Noel Langley's "The Land of Green Ginger" would be that third book (however I'd try & swap Shakespeare for the 1662 Book of Common Prayer!)This copy of "The Land of Green Ginger" is a 1972 reprint of Noel Langley's 1966 adaptation of her 1937 "The Tale of the Land of Green Ginger".NOTES:1.
3rd para belatedly corrected 23-Sep-13 in accordance with Comment 1  received].
My all-time favourite children's book! I read it as a child and I have always cherished the memories of Samarkand, Abu Ali, Boomalakka Wee, Omar Khayyam, Nosey Parker, Tintac Ping Foo and Rubdub Ben Thud!! I can recommend it to all children.I just re-read it in a few hours, and it's just as good from an adult's point of view. It should be read aloud.
A very old fashioned (not in an entirely good way) fantasy. I love the truly fantastic bits, but there's an awful lot of cultural appropriation and downright racism that makes me very uncomfortable.
Boomalaka Wee#1 reason to read this book: hilarious names.#2 Edward Ardizonne is the illustrator.#3 It's funny.Good enough for me.
and I must say that the pleasures of the book are in the language: Whether or not you are a fan of magic carpets and button-nosed tortoises, you will know that you need this book as soon as I tell you that one of the chief villain's lines is, "This isn't About Cheating at Chess, is it?
Because I adore Cheating at Chess; I shall Continue to Cheat at Chess; and if you Dare Try to Stop Me, I shall put Glue in your Beard."- Ellen Kushner
Turns out little Abu Ali is going to set off on an adventure to discover the location of The Land of Green Ginger and save the magician who lives there.
And if he happens to rescue the most beautiful girl in the world, make friends with a mouse and a genie, confront a couple of Evil Princes, and escape prison, so much the better.This was written back in the 1930s, so I don't know why I never heard of it until this year, but it was a wonderful read.
It would be a great story to read out loud.
I loved this book. It was a quick, fun read. A fantasy begun in 'ancient China,' it plays with the genre. Granted, the focus is on the language, not plot or character development, but it is a kick. The word use is delightful and different, the voice of the narrator quirky and very present, and the situations funny.
magic carpet, djinn in the lamp, wicked princes, beautiful and lovely lass, love at the first sight, the humble prince, the wicked prince, the talking mouse, an old wizard, the feather of phonix birds, desert, the land of green ginger..... what else can you ask from a fairy tale?the land of green ginger delivers all
I'd be a different person if I hadn't read this forty years ago - and many times since. There's no higher praise.
Anybody out there happen to know whether any of the recent editions use the original text instead of the expurgated 1970s version?
It was very good. My mum read it to me a very long time ago, so I hardly remember it. But it was very strange that Abu Ali suddenly was eighteen.
I'm pretty sure I bought this book as a gift for one of my nieces many years ago.
Nothing heavy and a little fun and fantastical.
This book was exactly that and short, too!
The story is told in a fun voice and with spunky characters.
Almost a little too slapstick, but it is hard not to love the main character, Abu Ali, who showed his spunk at birth.
My only major complaint is the lack of female characters.
The love interest is the only other human female.
All in all this book was a fun diversion, but little more...
It was the Edward Ardizzone illustrations that drew me in compulsively to this book, and they are an absolute delight - full of magic and wonder and joy.
The story has everything, from wicked princes, to thieves, to djins and comedy characters, but it is a very old fashioned fantasy.
Creative and delightful it might be but it's also borderline racist I think (probably more than borderline if you take it out of it's time and judge it on today's standards, which for the record I really shouldn't do.)It's still a charming, engaging tale, packed full of Ardizzone's illustrative wit to accompany the text.
Apart from the rather curious conviction that China is a hop, skip, and a jump away from the Middle East, and that the son of its ruler would be named Prince Abu Ali, this was a delight. Wonderfully fantastic, and always delighting in wordplay, this was a world of its own and never took itself at all seriously. I do believe I caught snippets of the Marx Brothers rhythm, if not the Three Stooges. Nothing wrong with that!
Not the easiest book to read aloud, but amusing at times and a good story.
Truly hilarious - the alliteration only adds to the buffoonery of the villains, and the hi-jinks throughout are absolutely entertaining.
I wish I’d read this book aloud to the children that I taught.
SPOILER ALERTThis book is an amazing book with ton of humor, I think that one of my favorite parts was when there was only one carpet for the evil princes!!!
This was a cute little story about Aladdin once he's married and has a baby.
The baby, Abu Ali, has to rescue a button-nosed tortoise (who's really a magician) by finding the flying kitchen garden called The Land of Green Ginger.
Abu Ali has to compete with other suitors and use his wits and his trusty djinn to get him out of some serious scrapes.
The style is a little old-fashioned, but the story is engaging, so it should have a fairly wide appeal within the fantasy lovers.
Uses the wicked suitors to makes fun of Asian-sounding names (Sulkpot Ben Nagnag).
I grew up listening to this reading of The Land of Green Ginger - as a cassette tape recorded from the vinyl record.
I was thrilled to find that the original radio station recording was available for download:http://fromthevaultradio.org/home/201...The rebroadcast also includes tidbits about the history of the recording and the book itself.
I did not know how old the story was or that it had gone through so many revisions!Now that I'm an adult that regularly listens to audiobooks, I have enough information to make judgements on reader quality, and I realize just how spoiled we were to have this amazing reading of this story.

I remember a time in my teen years when this book came back dimly in memory but I could not think of the name. It took me a long time to remember what it was called and then it was like winning the lottery. I ran out and got a copy and read it again with delight. Last year I read it again. Such a treat. By the way, the Ardizzone illustrations are indistinguishable from the text in my memory. They are so much a part of the delight of this book.
I have re-read this book so many times. Every time I loan it to a friend they love it as well.A wonderful, funny little book. Kids will love you reading it to them, too. Which kid wouldn't love two wicked princes called Tintac Ping Foo and Rub Dub Ben Thud? Not to mention the son of the genie, Boomlakka Wee?
This is a lovely and funny fairy tale. It contains many fairy tale tropes (a virtuous hero, a task to win a princess, stupid opponents) and makes fun of them at the same time. The dialogs are hilarious but sometimes this feels a little to forced.The gender roles are unfortunately quite traditional.
I keep hearing how this books was "re-written" or "edited" and that lots o whimsical use of language has been lost, but not having been able to find an earlier edition, I can testify that this is a wholly delightful reading adventure. Flying carpets, dragons, djinns and a floating kingdom feature prominently in these witty and suspenseful tales of Arabian nights.
The ultimate child's fairy tale. Exquisite. My mother owns the first edition, so we are lucky to have it all--not some pared down, condensed nonsense. I adore this book. My all star review is based on that first edition--not this one where they can't even get the title right(!). I can't find The Tale of the Land of Green Ginger, though, so I chose this one, just to get the title out there.
