https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363287.The_Woodshed_Mystery
cool fun and woody.
The main characters in this book are Benny, Henry, Jessie, and Violet Alden, along with their grandfather, and his sister.
The book is set in New England (United States) during a time around the 1960s.
Something I liked in this book was that it was a short, easy read that was still a good book with an interesting plot and varying characters.
Whenever I read a Boxcar Children book, he is one of my favorite characters every time.
this is a great read aloud, me and the boys really enjoyed the mystery.
Soon the kids are acquainted with a lot of the people there and they learn that Aunt Jane was in love with a boy that used to live on a nearby farm.
Aunt Jane admits that she wanted to marry him but she fought with him because she didn't want to take his last name, Bean.
They discover that it was Andy Bean, Aunt Janes sweetheart, who had come back to the village after all these years so that he could be with Jane again.
He reveals that he left because he was afraid of Jane and he had still loved her all these years.
Who knew that the mystery was extremely old. Everyone was afraid to live at the old Alden farm but no one could pinpoint why for sure. They knew something happened in the past and that is all. With little information to go on as usual the Alden children are on the case. Being clever and having an attention to detail is no small feat for them. A stranger comes back after so many years and is reacquainted with one of the Alden clan. Interesting book!
Well, Aunt Jane! You dog!In this one Aunt Jane moves back east, and what does Grandfather do for her? Buy her their childhood house, of course! How much money does this guy have???Of course, there is a mystery involving hidden ammunition, a woodshed, and some stolen eggs. And at the end? Well, Aunt Jane is a hit forward....Better than some of the more recent ones.
The book is different from the previous books. It explains what happened in the previous books when necessary. The children are also slightly older in this book. There’s also a history lesson tied into the story.
The Boxcar Children were my favourite series as a kid, and this one the most. It was rarely at the library, and when I returned to my home town it was no longer there. I finally found it as an ebook to re-read it now. Still a neat story for kids. Loved the history. Read in Nov 2018.
Read aloud to Calvin, sometimes he wanted to sit and listen and would ask me to read more, other times he ran off to play. I guess that's how you read when you're 3.
Wow! What happened?! This is the 7th book and Henry is in college! In book number 150 he is 14. This is so much better! They actually age! Like normal people, I guess.....
This one is a bit dated in terms of gender roles but I read it keeping in mind the context of the time it was written in.
My favorite one so far. Nice little history of the Revolutionary War.
Henry the oldest is in college and he drives a car in the book but when the four siblings go off to explore a potentially dangerous building (Dangerous because it's old and ready to fall down)Their Great-Aunt makes them take an adult with them.
I like that the author didn't want to set any bad examples for her young readers but a simple sentence such as: "I worry about that old building falling down but Henry you are an adult now and I trust you to look out for your sisters and brother," would have solved a large problem for this book.
As for the mystery, there is something that towns folk don't like about the old Alden Farm.
Even though the mystery is easily solved by an adult, for the first time in this series a genuine mystery with clues and ties to the past, including the Revolutionary War bring about an exciting story making this one of the finer stories in the collection.
Most of the minor characters are collected here but with the marriage of one, there is also the mention that some will be leaving and I'm thinking may be departing from the series at this time, while the marriage adds a new character who could easily fill the role played by the departing characters: adventure supervisor, adult companion etc.
I know in later books that after Miss Warner's death they are de-aged but at least this one they are older but the book cover to me they look younger than they are in the book.
There are draws inside the book like the other one but I didn't really care for them they really don't have the detail that the later books do which maybe some would like that they leave more to the imagination.I enjoyed these when I was younger and I personlly found it hard to read but that was just me.
Maybe it would have been better if I read these in order.
In this mystery book, the "Boxcar Children" are fixing up a farm house for their Aunt Jane who used to live their when she was a young girl.
Through a lot of searching and digging, the four children find secret doors and underground cellars that were used to hide ammunition during the Revolutionary War. And a man from the town when Aunt Jane was a young girl went missing and the family finds out he found the mystery before they did.
I love this series and mystery books alike.
Great choice for young readers!
Sure I liked this book, but just not as much as some of the others.
I liked that in the end, the mystery actually served as a history lesson on the American Revolution.
I liked the old-fashioned references to "long distance" phone calls and the concern over how much they cost.
Overall, though, besides the American Revolution angle, the book was just a little too reminiscent of The Yellow House Mystery in one major respect.
Also, a caveat to anyone reading this book to young children: the mystery involves a gun.
It's an old flintlock from the American Revolution, but a gun nonetheless.
One caught my eye: The Woodshed Mystery.
I wanted to fend for myself in a boxcar—and to solve mysteries while I was at it.I read The Woodshed Mystery, and it was only vaguely what I remembered.
Because they were female?I was intrigued by one aspect of The Woodshed Mystery.
The book suggests there is some sort of romance between Jessie, who is a teenager, and John Carter, who is a retired FBI agent.
I read another four books just to see how this obviously inappropriate relationship would advance.
Perhaps Warner realized its inappropriateness because none of the other books mention the relationship.
In the book boxcar children The Woodshed Mystery the Alden family is buying the old farm that Mr. Alden Yuste to own for his sister that is coming to live there.
The guy that owns it now tell them it is a bad idea to buy the place because of the neighbors son that used to live next to the house.
They say that he haunts the house with his gun that has caused him to get him in so much trouble.
He has started fires with this gun and caused neighbors to not want to live next to him.This book is really good.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
I'd heard of this series but never read one, so when one showed up for 20 cents at my local thrift store I grabbed it. The story is clearly written for children of the 50's and sixties but has a simple appeal like the Nancy Drew books. From what I understand each is based on a mystery while featuring plenty of childhood adventures with a minimum of adult intervention. I enjoyed this one and may well try another, particularly the first one The Boxcar Children if I ever find an equally cheap copy.
First off, I read these Boxcar Children books when I was a lot younger. There were some that I would read over and over and others that I read once and chucked to the back of my bookcase. Overall, though, I loved them all. The Woodshed Mystery fascinated me, at the time, because it was one of the first books that I read that dealt with the Revolutionary War. I loved hearing about the secret tunnels and the old weapons and all the battles that were fought, and the Alden family were there right alongside with me!
Very nice Revolutionary war twist on a classic secret passage mystery. I hadn't heard about the smuggling of weapons and gunpowder during the Revolutionary War so I enjoyed discovering something new. Good mystery. Also, it's interesting seeing the kids so grown up. I had to keep reminding myself that Henry is in college and Jessie is a senior in high school (which doesn't make the attention of the FBI guy all that creepy in my book, the girl is either 18 or nearly so...)I am still very much enjoying this series!
Here again was a mystery without much mystery and the adults following the kids around to make sure they stay safe. Someone became concerned that these books were setting a bad example and tried to make the characters less independent. This had the careless expenditure of money and class and a somewhat obvious mystery. But the adventure elements were fun. And the kids weren't very concerned about gun safety.
The Boxcar Children books are pleasurable to read and the characters consistently demonstrate good values. In this book, the children work to solve the mystery of who is living in an abandoned woodshed on the old farm which has recently been reacquired by their aunt. Items from the Revolutionary War era are discovered on the farm and a little bit of American history is learned in the pages of this book.
These books have aged really well -- my six-year-old and I both find them exciting. No uncomfortably dated social views, which have been a problem with some other children's classics we've read; though the girls do seem overfixated on housekeeping and dishes and tend to be the ones who do the cooking. Everyone has equal hand in solving the mysteries, though.
Such a fun mystery with some Revolutionary War history thrown in! Loved it! I would say this is more like the Boxcar children mysteries I remembered from my childhood...some of the other books were more adventure stories but this one actually *felt* like what most would think of as a mystery book. Very enjoyable.
Nice continuation of the Boxcar children series. Henry is in college now and his sisters are in high school, nice to see they are growing up as the series goes on. In this installment, the old Alden farm is repurchased for Aunt Jane and a mystery dating back to the Revolutionary War is uncovered.
I was highly disappointed about the way the author wrote about women--she's a woman and it wasn't like the book was written in 1850. Terrible. I can't even pick up another one to see the redeeming qualities of the series. There's got to be something, because the kids love 'em.
this book was a good book the part that was good is when he moved all of his stuff out of the woodshed when the kids came back with a helper to show them all of his stuff was gone. The bad thing is that there was not a secret you new what was going to happen next they did not plan the book good.
