https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10407279-deadlocked
So now that we’re here, mourning, let’s make a list of Charlaine Harris’s sins, shall we?•	She wrote no less than ten books going in one direction, only to change course rapidly and unexpectedly in book eleven, thus disappointing countless fans all over the world.
•	Every alpha male that ever showed up in the series was (and is) attracted to Sookie.
At least now I have the recipe.•	Sam. It’s pretty clear by now that Sookie is going to end up with him.
•	In one of her many interviews, Harris said that the bond between Sookie and Eric is her biggest regret.
This series is dying a slow, painful death. Please, put it out of its misery while it's still the humane thing to do.
(C) 62% | UnsatisfactoryNotes: The very blah internal monologue of a small-town blonde, and the story of her very negligible murder investigation.
Everything I liked about this series is gone.
N.O.N.E.However: Mundane, chapter swallowing, menusha - thick on the ground.I read on the CH blog that she was shocked to see that Dead Reckoning was listed as one of the worst books last year.
Unless, you could vamperize a relationship, Eric and Sookie are over.
But you know what they say: When the sex ends.....so its not like I didn't see it coming.
And two, I think she felt forced to get Sookie and Eric together by public demand; so she destroyed the relationship in a big flipping bird to those pressures.
I am *eagerly* awaiting this book, and I don't see why everyone has a huge problem with the series.
Maybe I'm just in the (apparently) small minority of people who enjoy long series.
I hate to say goodbye to characters I've come to know and love, and I, for one am hoping this is *not* the last book in the series.
So there :PEdit: Read it (in one night even,couldn't put it down!) and was quite happy with it, save for the end-i wanna know more!
Obviously this book is building to Sookie and Sam ending up together.
Am I the only one that thinks that Sookie ends up marrying Sam and running the bar with him?
She loves working for Sam and all the men in her life seem to think there is more going on there than Sookie is aware of.
I think harris will end the series with her and Sam getting married and running the bar while Eric marries his Queen, and Bill moons around the way he has for the last couple of books.**************************************************OKay, so Now i've read it and It was pretty freaking good.
Short on Story, Harris' Newest Book Fails Again*****Or, How Harris Let Alisha Down (who loved Sookie forever and ever)**Rating details: I gave this three stars out of pity, then I got mad the more I thought about the crap I'd just read, so I changed it to one star.
I get you.I'm sad that Harris is letting this series die, as Sookie has been much loved.
If Harris was unable to continue quality story lines for the series, she didn't need to accept the contract.
Should Sookie settle for less like Tara, who married JB because she wanted kids and he loved her?
If you are dying to read a step-by-step description of Sookie's mundane daily activities, such as checking email, washing dishes, sorting the mail, showering, or changing clothes, then you will absolutely love this book.
If you enjoy reading about the dullest, one-dimensional, Dollar Store generic versions of characters you used to love (all while trying to slit your wrists with you favorite bookmark), then pick up a copy of Deadlocked!However, if you expect more than 5 sentences out of Eric's mouth or long for some semblance of passion/excitement/intrigue from the early books, you will be disappointed.
Maybe one should focus on the series instead of churning out screenplays as books and expecting your loyal readers to play along?
Edited to add: I spent some time today (completely wasted and lost time I should add), skimming the bulk of Deadlocked and reading the last few chapters.
In Deadlocked, there are characters who have never been important to the books and the storyline that are suddenly front and center.
Does Harris just wake up and decide that plot lines she wrote in to her past several books were a bad idea?
She has spent the past few books destroying both Alcide's and Eric's characters.
In the past few books, Eric was not even a caricature of the vampire she had previously written.
I never thought Eric would be boring!
This was already the 12th book!!!ANDThe love carrousel is still spinning! WTH?!?! O_oWho shall it be, Miss Stackhouse?!EricBillAlcideCalvinQuinnSamDid I miss anyone?! Let’s pick up the last book. Maybe that will finally bring me some clarity. *lol*
I can't see anyone new to the Sookie-verse starting with this one, so my assumption is that everyone interested in reading it is familiar with the series, used to love it, and (like me) is only reading further because we've committed so much already.
Hell, Twilight had more romance than this!The first 60% of this book follows Sookie's day-to-day obligations - checking her mail, making dinner, working at the bar...
Conversations with the denizens of Bon Temps prompt Sook to run thru events past like a TV clip show: "Remember that time when something exciting happened involving that supernatural creature..." This is apparently in lieu of having any NEW adventures in THIS book.
Even books I hate make me feel something.
As much as I love the series the larger story does not seem to be leading anywhere.
I just want to know what all of this is leading up to instead of it being just another chapter in the life of Sookie Stackhouse.
I guess I figured Sookie would KNOW by now if she wanted to be turned or not.
I know I will read this book but if it is more like the past 2 novels and to a lesser extent the past 3rd one, than the first in the series I will not be reading any more.
(view spoiler)[Obviously, though it breaks my heart, Sookie will not end up with Eric, not even with Bill.
And I, will burn my book to ash.What I hope to happen does also seem to be a possibility:When Sookie explains to Sam about the Cluviel Dor, and it's magic generated on love, she will pass it off as love as a friendship.
Sam will try to pursue Sookie, but for her love of Eric, or whats left of it, she will decline.
This should have ended awhile ago, but since she loves money, our Eric will continue to fade to Sookie.
So, just in case you haven’t read the earlier Sookie adventures, consider this a warning of possible spoilers and some teasers.In many ways DEADLOCKED showcases the true strengths in Charlaine Harris’ writing.
(hide spoiler)]Even Sookie feels like she is in a better place than she has been in the last few books.
She goes out with friends, visits people, tans and daydreams like Sookie of old but that’s not to say that there isn’t plenty of tough times and sad moments, just that the character’s growth is evident.The writing in DEADLOCKED was improved and at times even poetically beautiful.
Raise your hand of you're dreading this book but know you put too much time in to not read it
Everyone knows that Charlaine Harris books are not serious works of fiction, I don't expect them to blow me away with their awesomeness.
In Deadlocked there is no new story, it seems like the same old shit just keeps happening again and again and too many details are put into the daily life of Sookie.
I loved when she finally got together with Eric because I loved Eric and the two of them together was so exciting.
Deadlocked was seriously disappointing.I know that book 13 is supposed to be the final nail in the coffin of this series but I can't even bring myself to get even mildly excited for it.
Yet another curiously addictive Sookie story! Such a shame there is only 1 book to go! There was no shortage of deaths in this book, and we got some answers as to what was going on with the faeries too. I have to say I was pleased to see the back of (view spoiler)[ Jannalynn (hide spoiler)] but on the romance front it seems that (view spoiler)[ Eric will abandon Sookie to go off with the queen. Poor Sookie. I think she’s already distancing herself from him because she knows it will happen. (hide
Yet another curiously addictive Sookie story! Such a shame there is only 1 book to go! There was no shortage of deaths in this book, and we got some answers as to what was going on with the faeries too. I have to say I was pleased to see the back of (view spoiler)[ Jannalynn  (hide spoiler)] but on the romance front it seems that (view spoiler)[ Eric will abandon Sookie to go off with the queen. Poor Sookie. I think she’s already distancing herself from him because she knows it will happen.  (hide spoiler)]7 out of 10["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Hope it's more than 352 pages.
That book left me feeling that Donna Andrews was decorating the narrative with little bits and bobs from the past entries, and had in fact lost interest in doing anything new with it.Charlaine Harris hasn't lost interest in Sookie, at least not visibly.
Sookie and Eric and Bill and Pam and Sam...everyone's here and accounted for, and each one still has stuff to do that makes the book move forward.
But it's crucial to note that, each and every time I've read a Sookie book, I've felt Harris's authorial presence making something happen.
While reading Deadlocked, the latest novel in the Sookie Stackhouse series, I was reminded of a quote by Stephen King from On Writing: "If I don’t write every day, the characters begin to stale off in my mind — they begin to seem like characters instead of real people.
The only positive thing I can say about the plot is that it looks like the fairies may be gone for good this time so I won't have to read about them too much in the next book, although I won't be surprised if they make an appearance.The characters also feel like flat cardboard cutouts, completely unrecognizable from how they were at the beginning of the series.
I'm just glad I lent it of a friend instead of actually wasting my own money on it.Sookie is one of the worst heroines EVER.
The way Sookie compares how her great grandfather holds her and how Eric does is beyond disturbing - why would anyone even think to compare the two?!
There's paragraph after paragraph of Sookie describing all the mundane things she does - like getting ready for work, cooking, cleaning and all the boring little jobs she did at work - how does that pass for entertainment?!
She blames women for every thing bad that happens, heaven forbid one of her boys actually be responsible for their own actions.
Sad to say I'm not even looking forward to this one.
My Book Eric mojo died a long time ago, and my TV Eric mojo died after S4 of True Blood.
Boo hoo.
:(----------------------------------------Well it was slightly better than expected.
Things are definitely winding down and loose ends are being tied up.
We're no closer to knowing who Sookie will end up with (if anyone).
I'll see her journey through to the end because after all the shit she's had to endure I want to see her happy.
Fingers crossed these past few lackluster books are paving the way to a kickass, awesome final book.
This review was first published to my book review blog, Book Savvy BabeIf I could only make one comment about Deadlocked, it would be "Oh, Sookie." I realize that doesn't tell you much, but hopefully you will understand as I go through this review.I am a long-time fan of the Sookie Stackhouse series by Charlaine Harris, I bought the first 8 books in the box set and read each of them at least 3 times 5 times each.
As to the fairies, the whole fairy situation in Deadlocked is a bit confusing, but Charlaine Harris manages to answer some questions from previous books and sets the stage to wrap-up the series.
I think I'll read this book next year when the final Sookie book comes out. No offense Charlaine but you should have ended the series at book 9,because after that the series started to suck.
Sookie wastes a lot of book time running errands that do not move the story forward.
I wanted to smack the shit out of Eric and Sookie for not facing their feelings and relationship issues.
There were too many TB references here i.e. when did Bill start calling Sookie 'sweetheart' in the books since they broke up?
I realize the series is told from the POV of Sookie but Eric is the ONLY reason I read the series anymore.
At this point, Eric and Sookie are deadlocked in a major way and things are not looking rosy.18.
Cannot wait, i love love these books. But i agree after 9 they r not as good. But i soooo love eric. I love how cocky he is. Bill is like edward cullen they just dont make good vampires. I like a cocky vampire ;)
Slow start, boring romance, some twists, heart breaking moments, betrayals, whiny Sookie, a different Eric and a weird ending.Oh Eric, just what had happened to you? *sigh*For that, I took away 1 star from the intended 3 stars review.Thanks, Ms Harris.(view spoiler)[ For taking away my "Happily Ever After". (hide spoiler)]So, 1 more book for the end of this series yah? How exciting.
It tight up some loose ends, but I swear if I have to read one more page of Eric being a douch bag I am going to vomit.I used to love Eric.
I think she is either moving Sookie into a position where she is going to end up with her first love (Bill), or with a human.
I have loved Sookie and her world for a long time, but after this book it seems to me that it's running out of juice.
I went into this with a whole lot of skepticism that Harris could write another great Sookie Stackhouse novel after the train wreck of the last one (well, it was a train wreck for me anyway compared to all of its predecessors).
It was clear from early on in the book that Deadlocked was good ol' Sookie Stackhouse.
It isn't revolutionary, but that's not what you're looking for when you read a Sookie Stackhouse novel :)I recommend anyone who had their faith shaken with the last book to give this one a go.
At the end of the day I realize that the events of the last couple of books have pretty much not only been the same but literally taking the same amount of time to transpire and resolve.
Feeling bad about it for all of 5 seconds and then moves on with her life like nothing just happened.
By the time she figures initial shit out more bad shit happens to her and everyone around her.
How can I get my time back.
It's the only thing I know this series is about anymore.
