https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24711.The_Dance_of_the_Dissident_Daughter
This book made me start doing what I might have once referred to as "hippie shit." Recently I was at a picnic that was being held at dusk at the lake, and I wondered away from the crowd and offered up a blessing to the Goddess. I blame/thank Sue Monk Kidd for this. Got to be unafraid to seek the divine in a way that fits and feels right.
It turns out that instead of embracing how strong a woman’s role is in the church; she rejects her role as a Christian woman completely and ventures off into her own creation, her very own religion.
Like I said, I could definitely relate to a lot of the prejudice she has experienced as a woman in the church, but I was hoping she would provide some guidance on what a woman’s role should be in the church.
Perhaps, that is why I enjoyed those books so much, because they really allow you to embrace your femininity and know how powerful and nurturing a woman’s love can be.
At the end of our meeting, she recommended this book and I drove directly to the Fuller bookstore and bought and sat in the cafe and read the prologue.
This book will mess with you, especially if you are a woman who leads in the evangelical church.
Read with care!
I found this book to be the door into profound personal journey of faith and theology, but it is not for the faint of heart (or faith!).
I love Kidd's description of centeredness and found myself longing and identifying with much of her journey.
She is an interesting writer and it is easy to read.
In the introduction, Kidd says that every person who undertakes a journey to seek out the feminine divine will have her or his own unique experience, and that she only aims to tell her own individual story; but throughout the book, she throws around comments that include phrases like "every woman will experience....", and about things that I don't think are as universal as she implies.
In my experience, they're not.I did mostly enjoy reading about her experience of coming to question the patriarchy of her own religion, and of subseqeuntly pursuing a relationship with a feminine divine power.
This book chronicles Sue Monk Kidd's journey from a Southern Baptist church to a spirituality focused on what she calls The Feminine Divine.
I do not think I come to the same conclusions she does or that I will follow in her path, but I appreciate the research she has done regarding the feminine characteristics of a God that encompasses both genders, which have been long ignored by much of the organized church.
I appreciate the questions she is helping me ask and her observations about how the Churches disregard of God's feminine characteristics have influenced the way it interacts with the environment, the state, etc.
It was like water on parched ground to read the true journey of a woman who was a product of a strongly patriarchal religious culture who wanted to find the divine feminine for her own soul's sake.Now, lest you think that everything in the book resonated, there are a few things I want to point out in this review (but the book still highly deserves the five stars).First, even though she makes a strong case for the divine feminine, the Goddess, Mother in Heaven, or whatever you want to call Her, she makes this lame-brained statement partway through the book about how, of course we all know that God actually has no gender whatsoever and that speaking of a female divine is just for our own sake .
But on a practical level, in spite of our more egalitarian doctrines, the attitudes of many church members toward women (and some of the things I hear from the pulpit) are the same as Kidd describes.I didn't connect as much to the second half of the book, where she describes all the interesting things she did to connect with the Sacred Feminine.
I actually did find myself relating to her experience in many, many particulars, but I can see how someone might find her constant assumption that she is a sort of archetype for "everywoman" annoying.All in all, an enlightening book, and definitely worth a read if you have any interest at all in the Sacred Feminine.
That's exactly what the Goddess of this book is- shaped in Kidd's image to be exactly what she wants.Also, I spiritually struggled with the book because I believe that when God calls us to something in an authentic spiritual journey, (s)he (and I will acknowledge God's lack of gender) collaborates with us, moving us WITH and BY him/her in our life.
This wasn't WITH God, but about Kidd's own desire of what she wanted God to be, with no struggle other than a "rah rah" feminine empowerment.
While I hadn't given the male slant in Christianity much thought of late, (I stopped attending a traditional protestant church in my early 20's & was now attending a liberal church), reading this book reminded me why I couldn't have been born in an earlier time.
Had I read this book then, I may have had the courage to end the relationship sooner.
Looking to a feminine higher power isn't a negation of a male god, it just brings balance to the religious equation that has been missing for a couple of thousand years.
This memoir set me on a course of searching out more books about feminism and religion. I really liked the way Kidd lets the reader into her inner world and describes her journey, but does not become too theoretical or abstract. She keeps it real by writing about concrete experiences with specific details.
I thought I would like this book better than I did. The first couple chapters were alright as I could relate to her somewhat but then I felt like she just started swallowing whole everything that she read and chucking her entire past out the window. I just couldn't track with her anymore.
The leader showed a clip of Carl's COSMOS series where he is saying something like " We are all made of star stuff, evolved over years...ect"The leader stops the movie and says "Now I doubt any of you believe in evolution, here the world believes we are evolved but the bible tells us we are made in God's image, not apes"I raise my hand and say "I actually accept the process of evolution in our human development, doesn't genesis say man was formed from dirt as well so could it not be that we started cellular and our ancestors eventually evolved into a higher consciousness and this is our God awareness?"He laughed and said "so you don't take the bible literally"I said "No but I don't think you do either because if we were literally made in God's image, that would make God a hermaphrodite and I feel like you would think that too contrary to your beliefs"Some people gasped.
I thought it ever so convenient that she'd mention a certain symbol as showing up in her dreams and oh, by the way, she'd read at least one other book on the sacred feminine that was all about that particular symbol...
If I followed her discourse time and again on such events, she'd read a book or several books with information about a particular symbol showing up in dreams and how it relates to the sacred feminine and then she'd start having dreams with that exact symbol.
I really wanted to add this one to my shelf of feminist essays, memoirs and non-fiction that I love because the subject is important, but this one just didn’t speak to me and here is why:This is Monk Kidd’s telling of her feminist spiritual awakening (so far so good) and how she had to reconcile that with the strict and conventional Christian childhood and adult married life she’d been living.
Her story is valid and I respect it, I just couldn't relate to her struggles between Christianity and Feminism, which is her main conflict throughout.In the opening, she says she writes this book in an attempt to help other women on their own journeys.
I really enjoyed the personal narrative aspect of the book, and applaud Kidd for her bravery in speaking out against patriarchal oppression of women of faith.
The majority of sources cited are actually poetry and prose, including several seemingly similar personal narratives - which I really liked, and Kidd has really given me a reading list.
Some aspects struck me as contrived (especially the dreams) but ultimately I was disappointed that Kidd kept trying to reconcile her beliefs in the divine feminine with Christianity.
I was dismayed that for Kidd the only way to validly worship the divine feminine is through the lens of Christianity.
I worried that it would be too theologically "out there" for me to relate to, but I bought it anyway because I have loved another book of Kidd's, When the Heart Waits, so much.Although my own journey has been different than Kidd's, I found so many parallels and felt very validated in my own experience.
For any women who are awakening to the problem of patriarchy and/or the experience of the Divine Feminine, this book is for you.
If the idea of the Divine Feminine is a scary one, read with an open mind and a prayerful heart.
Sue Monk Kidd had been my "spiritual mentor" for a number of years.
I could count on her books to "make my heart burn" with love for God. I had already entered a time of transformation--so much so that I had entered the Catholic Church two years before I read this book for the first time.
It took a number of years for me to "morph" into my new self--or as Kidd's writes, to give birth to my new self.
Probably one of the most transforming books I'll ever own.
Her whole "journey" seemed to be nothing more than deserting her faith, her husband (initially), and her responsibilities in order to take multiple retreats and find her "inner Divine Feminine".
She found what she wanted to find: a "goddess" who made no demands save that she recognize herself and none other as true authority.I found myself feeling sorry for Sue as I read this book.
If all I had to rely on was myself and the feminine power within me, I don't think I'd feel very secure.
I pray that someday she comes back to faith in Christ.
An emotional and thought provoking read for any woman raised in a partiarchal religious tradition.
I'm not Baptist, I was raised Mormon, but could relate to everything she was saying.
And then she explains how she learned to heal, and how she found her own form of spirituality that didn't wound her femininity.
Probably one of the most powerful books I've read for me personally.
Admittedly, the second half of the book gets a bit woo-woo, but that to me is not the important part.
So for me, to acknowledge how religion has suppressed women was healing, validating, and empowering.
My pastor loaned her copy to me, but I'm going to order my own if for no other reason than having the bibliography available!
I also need to order some to give away to friends.The books sub-title really says it in a nutshell.
Sue Monk Kidd grew up in the Southern Baptist church, and married a SB minister.
At some point, she became frustrated with the patriarchal assumptions that dominated the SBs and other mainline churches.
Ms. Kidd is certainly better read on the subject than I am, so I really appreciate the extensive footnoting!Awesome book about an equally awesome journey.
Perhaps it is a more common feminine experience than I thought.I've always noticed the glaring absence of women in the scriptures, in church authority, in cultural tradition and history, and in the divine.
I found a lot of what I call "lip service to equality," but structurally, most mono-theistic religions clearly favor the masculine over the feminine.
I went on a similar spiritual journey in search of the feminine divine (although it mainly took place inside my head, unlike Kidd's journey).
I have to imagine that if there is such a thing as a Supreme Being, it has to include aspects of both masculine and feminine.
What, then, made her decide to step away from church teachings regarding the place of women and embark on a journey to find the sacred feminine?
That started a journey of several years as she read, meditated, traveled and talked with other women as she tried to make sense of what was changing in her, spiritually.
This, along with female deities from other cultures (Minoan Crete, ancient Greece, Native American), convinced her that there was a basis for a feminine spirituality.
Eventually, she found that she could manage to hold both a deep feminine spirituality and to the Christian church.
I'm especially nurtured by Kidd's re-telling and working with the myth of the Minotaur and the labyrinth and also her sharing the periodic dreams she had that involved visits with her Inner Sacred Feminine figures.
Since then I've had at least one dream of a figure I dimly identify as an Inner Feminine Guide--a white-haired teacher type from Pennsylvania, much like a nun I know named Sister Barbara, who taught about compassion.
I had read her written summary, and had underlined the words, "I prefer a howling approach." Powerful book!
I'm remembering how much I love feminist literature lately, and this book was an excellent addition to my already-sagging "feminist books" shelf.
Sue Monk Kidd provides a critique of the patriarchal culture of the Christian church, and delves into how she feels it's let women down.
This is one of the few books I have that I won't be loaning out as I have notes in the margins already and have journalled on passages throughout the book.
I found myself making notes like "THIS IS MY WHOLE LIFE!" Not too telling, but it was so exciting to read others had the same experience as me.
As always, Kidd's prose is clear but beautifully constructed.
I loved this book!
Having very much enjoyed Sue Monk Kidd's fiction ("The Secret Life of Bees", "The Mermaid Chair", etc.) I was quite intrigued by the subtitle, "A Woman's Journey from Christian Tradition to the Sacred Feminine", particularly when I realized this is not fiction, but the author's own personal journey.
She shares with us each step of the way, her personal doubts, the challenges she had to overcome, the risks she took along the way - her reputation, her marriage, and how she found support to stay the course.
We read so many (male) versions of the "heroic journey".
Here is a most refreshing and inspiring "heroine's journey".
I recommend this book highly!
Read this book after finishing Secret Life of Bees for the second time.
I love all the references to other books and articles.
This is the story of Monk-Kidd's personal struggle with her Christianity.
I'd say it was a feminist critique of Christianity, but "feminist" is too culturally loaded, and "critique" sounds so academic as to be deadly.
She looks at mythology -- and I include Christianity in this genre here -- from all over the world and all across time to see how and why women and goddesses have been systematically pushed to the fringes of religion and given secondary roles, even in their spiritual lives.
This a life-altering and mind-altering book! I absolutely loved it!
In Dance of the Dissident Daughter, we are treated to Ms. Kidd's chronicling of her six-year-long religious and spiritual transformation from orthodox Christianity to -- well, it's hard to squeeze it into a easily definable box, but I guess the simplest, though still inadequate explanation, is worship of the Divine Feminine in an effort to balance the overwhelmingly masculine God of her previous experiences.I come from a traditionally conservative religious background, but one which, perhaps startlingly, includes foundational elements of the Divine Feminine.
Do you know what it's like to place your ear to a sea-beaten conch and hear a deep, mysterious whispering or to open a broken old music box and find the strains of a waltz suddenly escaping?
I'm referring to Christianity's inner life, the life of Jesus, the stories, the belligerant call to justice and compassion, the mysticism, the meditation, the saints, the art, the icons, the smell of wine in the communion cup."While some of her faith journey experiences are not mine or even something that beckons me, her experiences and viewpoints give me new awareness of the ways our lives are shaped by a patriarchal society and church.
This book was painful to work through - especially reflecting on the betrayal and anger I still sometimes feel at the tradition that I served.
I realized that lacking the feminine, the language had communicated to me in subtle ways that women were nonentities, that women counted mostly as they related to men.""Throughout this period of looking at Christian patriarchy for the first time, I felt deeply betrayed by a tradition I had served.
It's that old the-world-is-flat conviction, where we believe that if we sail out on the spiritual ocean beyond a certain point we will fall off the edge of the known world into a void.
