https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11045.The_Spectator_Bird
Do we really get a chance to decide who we are, what we do, where we go and with whom we share all these choices as we grope in the darkness of time?Joe Allston, a retired literary agent, is seventy years old… and has turned into an adorable curmudgeon.
Without sacrificing the necessary dose of self-effacing humor to balance out the dramatic charge of the storyline, and with elegant, firm stroke, Stegner delivers some delightful surprises that include meeting Karen Blixen and a mysterious Danish countess that will leave track in Joe’s memories and mean a crossroads in his life that will haunt him for the rest of his days.I turned the last page of this tour de force with regret, knowing it will be a while until I meet a novel that is so perfectly rounded.
Joe Allston, a crusty 69-year-old former literary agent, and his kindhearted wife Ruth live a rather isolated life in northern California.
They had met an older couple, which prompted Joe to write descriptively about their ilk, and about censorious people in general.They sit in lace-curtained parlors and tsk-tsk on an indrawn breath, they know every unwanted pregnancy in town sooner than the girl does, they want English teachers in Augustana College fired for assigning A Farewell to Arms, they wrote the Volstead Act. Once they arrived, the focus of the journal shifts to the countess.
In the earlier novel, All the Little Live Things*, Joe Allston had retired from being a literary agent and settled down with his wife Ruth in a country home in California.The story of The Spectator Bird.
Wallace Stegner takes place when Joe is 69 years old, and to his dismay much has changed around him.
He is working on various notes when he finds an old postcard which prompts him to locate a diary from years before when he and Ruth had visited Denmark.
Ruth insists that Joe read out aloud so that she might share the memories, and in the process she learns more about her husband’s thoughts and feelings at that time.
He is both retrospective and introspective; he broods about the past and the present – and the future.Joe feels that he has been more spectator (see title) than actor in his life and in one of his introspective moods he muses to himself:“As for Joe Alston, he has been a wisecracking fellow traveler in the lives of other people, and a tourist in his own.
Here is what Joe thinks about the idea of writing his memoir:“… it is one thing to examine your life and quite another to write it.
Nixon did write his memoir, more than one, in fact, and so did Agnew.
The book is about Joe Allston, actually not just about him, but about his wife (Ruth) too, about the couple as a pair, about their relationship and their respective attitudes.
Now, in the present, Joe is reading to Ruth the journals he wrote on that trip, and they are talking, finally talking about what they have not been able to speak of before.The book is about one’s thoughts as one nears seventy.
Instead, characters and events in well-known books are used as reference points; if you have read the book you know the kind pf person Joe or Ruth are speaking of, understand their train of thought and catch the underlying humor.
So, about a week ago I walked over to the library and this book sort of jumped out at me.
And so at age 63, an age I think is appropriate for reading this book, I settled in for what was a very worthwhile and thought-provoking week of reading.
The man writes beautifully and this book touches on things that I think cannot be appreciated until one hits these Golden Years of life.
Even though written in the 1970's the book does not feel dated and the feelings that Stegner writes about are as fresh and worthy of review now.
At a time of the year when many people of varying ages take stock, Stegner’s story of ageing Joe Allston was especially poignant.
Whatever your age, we’ve all had those pivotal moments in life when we chose one fork in the road over the other, and go on to either live with regret, or relief.
It’s not the most inspirational message, but it sure is realistic.It comes as shock to realize that I am just killing time ’til time gets around to killing me.Other than a brief digression into a bizarre (view spoiler)[ “pure race” and incest  (hide spoiler)] side story, this novel is subtle and beautifully written.
I absolutely loved this book from page 1 to the end.
Joe Alston, a nearly seventy-year old is one of these miserable and depressing individuals who nevertheless brings joy to one.
He's also one of those honourable men whom I always find so very endearing and his wife Ruth of forty years or so understands him very well indeed.But it was the journals that had me entranced with this book and the fact that he read them to Ruth.
To travel back in time to when these journals were written about Denmark and the countess Astrid.
An unexpected letter from a Danish acquaintance of at least two decades before sends Joe to reading his journal from that time, and at the insistence of his wife Ruth they begin reading it together.
Alternating between scenes of contemporary life and the life that Joe and Ruth lived together in Denmark twenty years before, Stegner creates a rhythm that juxtaposes yearnings and confusions that both differ at different life stages and also function to create a continuity that affirms life and relationships even as it retains life’s poignancies.Stegner explores the differences between America and Europe, wondering about the motivations of those who immigrated to the former, wondering whether they were seeking freedom or safety, and in what those even consist.
Another deeply satisfying book by Wallace Stegner, with themes reminiscent of Crossing to Safety and Angle of Repose: mortality, the labyrinth of marriage, the mind game that is aging and physical disability, the search for self.
The narrator and protagonist Joe Allston is embattled in body, mind and spirit: angry and anguished over an enormous loss he shares with his wife Ruth, hurt by a world he imagines as hostile and uncharitable toward the elderly and infirm, intimidated by youth and convinced of a feud between the generations.
Even though it was written almost forty years ago, the relevance of the issues it dealt with shone through the pages with contemplative resonance.Set mostly in Denmark, “The Spectator Bird” centered on Joe Allston, a 69-year-old retired literary agent, his wife (Ruth), and their summer friendship with a Danish countess who had fallen from grace.
The narration was interspersed with journal entries Joe had made from that trip as he read it aloud to his wife (at her insistence).Perhaps, this novel would seem drearily depressing to individuals in the prime of their lives.
They say that as we approach old age, some look back with satisfaction and contentment about the life path they followed, and some reflect with regret and guilt, and, in hindsight, wish they had followed other paths to supposedly greener pastures.
Despite his and his wife's relatively good health, an accomplished career as a literary agent, and a suburban villa an hour from San Francisco, he is filled with guilt for driving away his only child, a son who became a surfer bum and drowned.
It's a good book about how seniors reflect back on life and wonder "who's next?" while those around them drop off one by one.
Protagonist Joe Allston is a retired literary agent who feels he has allowed circumstance, coincidence, and opportunism to govern his life.
A postcard from an old acquaintance leads Joe to locate the journal he kept when the couple traveled to Denmark twenty years before, after the tragic death of their only son.
He reads the journal to his wife, and as he does, it brings back memories of a time when their marriage seemed in peril.
The reader learns of Joe’s family ties to Denmark and the difficult life of a countess they stayed with during that time.
*****.This is a marvelous un-put-downable novel from Stegner that was fully deserving of the prize for Best Fiction from the 1977 National Book Award.
It is the story of a trip taken by a married couple to Denmark, told through the rereading of a series of journals kept by the husband during the trip twenty years earlier.
If you only read one book by Stegner, make this one your choice.
You will be very impressed by his technique of roping in the reader and making him/her a part of a twenty-year-old event.
Their son died years earlier and Joe still harbours a lot of Bitterness about the hand life has dealt him.
He feels his life has been lived as a spectator.
When he receives a postcard from a woman he and Ruth knew years before it sends him searching for the journals he wrote during his time in Denmark.
There is something about a grumpy old man (or woman) that can be endearing in a book or film.
It was okay till it got further into detailing the story of the countess and her relationships.
Once they are in order, they are dead, and so am I.Heisenberg Principle (the uncertainty principle: A principle, especially as formulated in quantum mechanics, that greater accuracy of measurement for one observable entails less accuracy of measurement for another.
As defined in quantum mechanics, it is also called Heisenberg's uncertainty principle.
Page 33 -  Quit being such a Puritan, file the point off the prick of conscience, quit crying mea culpa, quit beating the breast, quit pitying myself.Just as well I am sharing a computer with others or I would have been copying out quotes all day long instead of getting on with the actual read.
However, what I will say is that Wallace Stegner is rapidly becoming one of my favourite authors - and I can say that with confidence after reading just two of his books.
Crossing to Safety was one of my favourite reads of 2016 and although The Spectator Bird doesn't quite hit that book's lofty heights, I very much enjoyed it.Stegner is absolutely wonderful at exploring friendship and memory, love and loss - not to mention all the subtleties of emotion and feeling that go in-between.
His prose is poetic and affecting, and it's amazing how a story that seems so simple can have so many layers and pack such an emotional punch.
The Spectator Bird is a beautifully written novel. What I loved most was Stegner's thoughtful, profound portrayal of a mature, complicated, loving relationship between a married couple. To steal from The Troggs, Wallace Stegner, you make my heart sing!
This prompts him to pull out his journal that he maintained during that trip, and his wife begs him to read it out loud to her at night, and the story told in the journal becomes the second narrative.
Although Joe Allston is defined by his passiveness, Stegner creates a society where rumors circulating in Danish society are remarkably close to fact.
As the reader rebounds from the shocking revelations about Rodding's family, Stegner creates an emotional climax between Ruth and Joe, in response to old feelings about their experiences in Denmark long swept under the rug.
Added 9/7/13.I listened to this book via audible.com. Such great writing! Very rich with allusions and metaphors. Wallace Stegner is remarkable!This was a heartrending story. Stegner poignantly describes the agony of being torn between two loves. There is also a detailed back-story with ominous overtones, but the romantic scenes are always pure.The audio book was read by Edward Herrmann who definitely added to my enjoyment of the story.One GR reviewer wrote that the main character's "interior monologues are delightfully curmudgeonly". I agree!This book won the National Book Award for Fiction (1977).I also enjoyed Stegner's Angle of Repose.
A beautiful novel by a master of the form. As we get older and more settled, we find the past calling for its reckoning, and in this novel Stegner takes his protagonist on a reckoning from present-day (1970's) Northern California to post-war Denmark through the journals he kept stashed away among his relics. Stegner is a writer's writer who paints the most evocative and striking scenes with his finely honed descriptive eye, while also maintaining characters of sharp wit and intelligence who have a capacity for rich and varied expression, Profoundly truthful. Satisfying story-telling. Stunning writing.
At first, it seems the story is about aging gracefully with good humor and safety, in spite of the corrosive feeling that in your life, you were a spectator, a valet, to the banquet of life.
But it takes a turn as the husband reads his diary to his wife about a trip they took to Denmark twenty years before.For a short book it is multi-layered with the themes of settling into retirement, being part of an old married couple and at some point in your life, you get to decide, as an adult, the course you will take with the full knowledge of the rewards and pitfalls of your choice.
Now that I am in my sixties, I enjoyed this book more this time around.
I first read it several decades ago and it didn't resonate nearly so much.
Written from the perspective of a 69-year-old retired literary agent, who is aging ungracefully, it touches on many of the unwelcome losses that the accumulated years bring.
Then he starts to read his diary aloud to his wife, about a trip they took to Denmark twenty years before.
During that period, a complex situation emerged, a mystery was solved, and a resolution took place that was a turning point in both their lives.
I didn't realize until the end that this is a prequel to All the Little Live Things, a favorite of mine. Joe Allston is agreeably irascible, a foil to his wife Ruth and the unfortunate and intriguing woman of secrets, Astrid. Psychologically and philosophically true.
Without too many spoilers here, the story (the memories, the diary notes...) does involve a trip to Denmark in the 1950s, and a side-meeting with a real author, Karen Blixen (aka Isak Dinesen, and now probably best known and remembered for a book ("Den afrikanske farm") that was Anglicized and movie-ized into "Out of Africa.") But what's nicely done here by Stegner, in yet another level of literary-layering (and the reader has to remember it him/herself, because it's not mentioned in this book, and Blixen is really a side-character to the main story here) is Blixen's authorship of a number of "gothic tales." Because what unfolds in this book is *quite* the 'gothic tale' of the literary agent's discovery of his own family's history in Denmark, a generation earlier, during his and his wife's short stay in 1950's Denmark...
Stegner is capturing getting old in a way that I do not believe that anyone else succeeds, with the fear, but also with the intimacy of couples that are married for long long years, with regrets and memories, with friends that are going away (passing away, or losing their health, or just far away).
Joe is more funny yet grumpy in All the Little Live Things, but we have the chance to get to know him better reading both books about him and Ruth his wife.So as usual, it's a Stegner's, which is pretty self-explanatory and promises joy from beautiful prose.
A postcard from an old friend sends the character looking at old journals and the story takes off from there.
He writes clearly and his imagery is evocative.
He writes, from a stylistic perspective, very well.
That said, as I mentioned above, the story just bored me to tears.
Part of it (and I hope the larger part), is that I look for real stories of interest in my reading.
I know others have loved Wallace Stegner's books.
For me, I'm not likely to pick up another book of his.
Wallace Stegner is more praised for his impact on and affiliation with other great authors -- Tom Wolfe, Larry McMurtry, Ken Kesey, Edward Abbey, et al.
I chatted for a few minutes with Wolfe once regarding Stegner's antipathy toward Kesey.I've read most of Stegner's fiction and quite a bit of his non-fiction.
I encourage you to expose yourself to his work.The Spectator Bird is an example of Stegner's deft and disciplined touch.
I finished it today, and I'm sitting here in my living room a bit glum tonight.Stegner's truth will set me free, though.
But, then again, I love Wallace Stegner.
I listened to it as an audio presentation and the reader, Edward Herrmann, did a fantastic job as an old man...and then transitioned into Ruth, his wife, and THEN into the Danish characters.
It centers around the theme of an 'old' (68!), arthritic man in the 1970's, and his reminiscence of their time in Denmark in earlier years as he reads his old journals to his insistent wife.
It is also about an old man as he ages.
I feel Stegner has, in the 3 novels I've read, such a good grasp of the inner workings of human minds.
I am almost certain I will read this again in 20 years time and give it 5 stars.
It is full of the poignant, often sad, old age musings of a retired New York literary agent as he battles with ageing, perceived irrelevance and questions of identity and legacy.
With both his parents and his only child dead, what will be the evidence he even existed?
Has he only been a spectator in life?
Is he just killing time until time kills him?
For me, this didn't have the charm of Crossing to Safety, but it does have the same brilliant writing.
