https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87745.Wish_You_Well
I am not a Baldacci fan...never read another of his books.
But this is not characteristic of his legal thrillers.
This is a beautiful story about 2 children learning what is really important in life...and it's NOT money.
I've heard that in many places this is becoming required reading at the junior high/high school, level and it should be.
It would be most impactful for this age.
I loved it and will remember it long after I forget many of the other books I have read.
I wish everyone would read this book.
It's on the level of "To Kill a Mockingbird".
The writing is sloppy (once you've written 800+ books, do you get a free pass on editing?), the plot is predictable and contrived, the characters are flat, and the theme of belief in the face of despair is bludgeoned in with no finesse.
This book is so predictable it'd be hard to spoil.)The whole storyline is weak, but the ending is almost fantastically ridiculous.
And I cringed at the "afterward" written by future Lou. She grows up to be a famous, wealthy writer, her brother grows up to win a World Series with the Yankees.
Her father is a famous (albeit underpaid) writer and she has a caring mother and a younger brother named Oz. When the whole family is in a car accident that kills her father and leaves her mother unable to take care of her and her brother, they are sent away to live with the woman who raised their father; their great-grandmother.Suddenly Lou finds herself coming of age in a landscape that could not be more foreign to her.
On her great-grandmother's farm…on the land her father loved and wrote about, Lou finds her first true friend, learns lessons in loyalty, tragedy, and redemption; and experiences adventures tragic, comic, and audacious.
And such books are never perfect, you can find a whole bunch of faults or loopholes in it, or you can appreciate it and take something worthy out of it.I'll not even describe or comment upon how the characters were or how the story was, because they were not characters of a story; but live, breathing people with whom I spent my time, and went through all they went.David Baldacci is, apparently (because I've not read him much), a writer of legal thrillers and such.
But with this book he has shown his versatility, and convinced me to read more of him.
This was a complete departure for Baldacci and I really enjoyed it. He showed a completely different side of him and his writing skill were shine. I cried, and learned about the hardships of people living in the nountains of Virginia just before WWII, with no power and hard life farming. ENJOY
I really enjoyed this book.
I loved being transported to another time and place.
I loved the characters and the writing made me feel as if I was there."The place smelled of coffee, wood smoke, and baking fruit pies.
Umbrellas for sale hung from the ceiling.
There was a bench down one wall, and three swivel chrome barstools with padded green seats were bolted to the floor in front of a waist-high counter.
There was a modest soda and ice cream fountain machine, and through a pair of saloon doors they could hear the clatter of dishes and smell the aromas of food cooking."
I really enjoyed this book because it was set in a place I hold dear in my heart: Appalachia. A good read, for sure.
Really a touching story and a stark departure from his normal books. This tells of life in the mountains of Virginia and appreciation for the "simple" life.
TLDR: David Baldacci read "To Kill A Mockingbird" and thought he could write the same book just as well. He was wrong.“You've got to remember that these are just simple farmers. These are people of the land. The common clay of the new West. You know... morons.” –Gene Wilder, Blazing Saddles Apropos of nothing, I’ve been thinking of Italian Western epics a lot lately, so I thought I’d do this review with a Sergio Leone flavor.The Good: In truth, I enjoyed Wish You Well more than I thought I would
It’s also commendable for Baldacci to move beyond his usual themes of espionage and thrillers into something a bit more human, even if it is just a brief vacation.One shouldn’t expect great, soul moving literature from a novel like this.
That it’s quick and interesting enough for the reader to make it to the end is sufficient to qualify as brain candy.The Bad: Nonetheless, inoffensive story aside, Wish You Well is not well written by any reasonable standard or comparison.The viewpoint character, Lou Cardinal and her ubiquitous younger brother, Oz simply do not read as children.
But after seeing Wish You Well on the shelf at the local library, it sounded like a book I could not pass up.
To me this means that the book has reached me on such an emotional level that it has far surpassed any other book that I had thought was the best thing I had read before.
When I closed the back cover, this book had definitely accomplished what it set out to do - it made me feel.
I have already recommended this book to many people.
If you only read ONE book this year, make it this one.
I've never read any other David Baldacci books, so I can't comment on how this is a departure from those plots, even though it's very obvious that it is.The story itself is well-written, with two main children characters who are forced to grow up and learn to rely on each other after they are faced with tragedy.
My cousin lost his dad at a young age and before his dad died he was asked to take care of his little sisters - as thoughtful and sweet as he is, even HE doesn't talk like that.
Lou goes out on her own after (spoiler) Diamond dies and she is randomly attacked by a pack of wolves.
In the entire book, Lou and Diamond go out at night and they are never bothered by a pack of wolves ...
Lou goes out and she is attacked by the wolves and is saved by the panther ...
Anyhow…The book is about a sister and brother who lose their parents in a car-wreck, and gets sent to live with their great-grandmother on a mountain..
I found it creepy how the lawyer dude saw the woman in a coma (who literally just lost her husband in a car wreck), and automatically thought he wanted to “read to her”.
Which we all know what meant, and it's absolutely ridiculous to add a love-story with a woman in a COMA who just lost her HUSBAND 2 days ago..
I do not like mistakes in my books.
Wish You Well.This is a book that made me cry, and pulled at my heart, but at the same time made me smile and really appreciate what I have before I loose it. The emotion in this book was powerfully written and motivating. It’s about an everyday family, everyday people who loose everything, but slowly learn to live in their new world and cope to the emotional turmoil that has happened upon, a young brother and sister. I’m glad that I was encouraged to read this book, with this book’s setting bei
The emotion in this book was powerfully written and motivating.
It’s about an everyday family, everyday people who loose everything, but slowly learn to live in their new world and cope to the emotional turmoil that has happened upon, a young brother and sister.
You learn about the ups and downs of a young brother and sister who loose their world and move into a new one, so completely different, but fit in so naturally.
Wonderful book about a girl and her brother who get sent to her grandmothers in the Virginia Mountains after her father is killed in a car wreck and her mother goes into a catatonic state.
It is 1940 and the accidental death of their father sends two children, Lou and her younger brother Oz, along with their invalid mother, from New York City to the rugged mountains of southwestern Virginia to live with their great-grandmother, Louisa Mae Cardinal.
Life is different in Virginia where food is homemade, school is a long walk down the road, and chores involve rising early in the morning.
Alright, I'm not going to be eloquent about it, but I HAVE to add my two cents because there are just too many glowing reviews of this book.
It is so so sooooo cliche, every plot device comes straight out of made-for-TV movies, which several reviewers have commented.
Makes me think of Umberto Eco's essay on Casablanca, "The Cliches are Having a Ball," because the whole thing is a mishmash of courtroom drama and wistful 'long-lost simple life' tropes.
Lifetime movies are more nuanced than this one.
Perhaps if I didn't it wouldn't have been as good as I thought it was.
You set yourself up for something really great and then end up being disappointed when it's not as good as you thought it was going to be?
I don't know if Baldacci had been around a lot of young people because his interpretations just seemed to be diluted copies of how other people have written kids.I believe the main audience for this book would be women and/or young adults, but I wouldn't let that deter you men from reading this.
Good, easy, enjoyable read.
This is not your usual Baldacci, legal and crime writer. It's a story about two kids, 12-year old Lou and 7-year old Oz, who loose their father in a car accident in New York area, leaving their mother in a coma.They move to their great-grandmother Louisa to live with at her Virginia Mountain farm. Quite another life, to get used to, and on top of that Louisa's farm is threatened by gas companies who try to take over her land.Entertaining, easy to read, good feel of the times, culture and the mountain life.
But the forces of greed and justice are about to clash over her new home...and as their struggle is played out in a crowded Virginia courtroom, it will determine the future of two children, an entire town, and the mountains they love.I've read all of David Baldacci's series over the years but this was so different from all of those.
As I was reading it I kept thinking that it sounded almost like an autobiography, and then at the back of the book were family pictures from Baldacci's grandparents and his mother.
Again one of the classic book of David. This book is about cardinal family living in Virginia mountain. The book is rather slow in the starting which is because author has tried to build up the story for a classic climax. The book is very fast towards the end specially after the death of Jack diamond Skinner one of the character in the book. overall a superb Goodread.... 😃
Lou and her younger brother Oz find themselves alone as their father has passed away and their mother has entered a catatonic state.
They head up the hills in Virginia to live on the mountain with their great grandmother Louisa, whom they have never met, but heard frequently about from their father's stories.
Their experience there is filled with trials, opposition, danger, learning, growth, understanding, friendship, love, and faith.
Louisa kept saying throughout the whole book that she didn't need anything more than the land.
And Lou and Oz learned a bit about faith and holding on and love.
It was really a great story.
This was a sweet story about a couple of kids that are given more hard knocks than they deserve.
The ending is a little sugary-sweet-fairy-tale-ish, but it’s forgivable.I felt a little bit of an extra connection to this story because it is set where I live.
People around here hold on to their way of life as fiercely now as they did then, even if that way has changed a bit.
I can also appreciate Louisa Mae’s connection with the land, since my own family made their living from the land for a long time.
Reviewing books is not my forte, so all I will say is that I enjoyed this one more than I had thought I would at first.
So, in order to calm my troubled heart, I read the end first.
At least enough to enable me to keep reading.
And I'm glad I did (keep reading and read the end first).
It read very easily and was captivating - I stayed up until after 2am reading it last night and had to finish it this morning before doing anything else (sorry to my family that now will live in a dirty house for one more day).
I eagerly await the book club discussion on this one ladies!
This beautiful story of family and struggle in the hills of Virginia is not the normal subject content for David Baldacci, but it is one of the better books I have read this year. I enjoyed the story, the interchange between the characters of the book, the conflict and resolution, and the setting. Some books do not satisfactorily conclude for my taste, but Baldacci provides an emotional ending that provides closure and a desire for more from novels like this one from this gifted author.
Lovely, homespun and poignant tale of mountain folk and simpler times and ways. (Probably the kind that would survive and prosper in dystopian times). Well narrated (some done by the author). This isn't like authors usual story. Thoroughly enjoyable for any age and most genre-lovers. Highly recommended.
UGH! I've never read anything else by David Baldacci, so I can't compare this to his "usual" writing. What I can say is that I thought the whole book was hokey - from the annoying dialects to the improbable situations and far-fetched solutions.
Baldacci, who wrote "The Camel Club" saga (the legal thriller) among other things, has a very interesting voice. I enjoyed this book and thought the characters were well-developed. The plot line was interesting, with lots and lots of emotional and physical baggage.
Throw that cheesy Vampire down the stairs, while you're doing that, toss this one as well. You will not ever get these hours back in your life :)
A departureand what a departure it wasa book about books, love of writing, and familyfacing everything as oneand standing together
So I did like this story.
I happily read the whole thing, and there were things about it I liked.
It was a fast, easy read.
I loved the character of the grandmother, Louisa, she struck me as the most authentic.
But the story was overly sentimental, the writing was forced, the villainous characters seemed cartoonish, and the young people didn't seem all that young, except for Oz, who seemed too childish and then suddenly, too adult.
I see that lots of people love this book, so maybe I am too critical.
It reminded me of a watered-down To Kill A Mockingbird, without the racism.
