https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1032.Trump
That always makes 'em nervous.*I file a lot of lawsuits, and win them (except the ones I lose or withdraw, which I don't mention in this book).*If your name is Donald Trump, everyone wants to sue you.*It pays to sometimes be a little wild, and a bully.*I'm a populist hero who helps little old ladies keep their farms against big bad cold-hearted foreclosing bankers (except when I do the same thing, which I have, but don't mention in this book).*I use the word "ridiculous" a lot, as shorthand and in lieu of actually explaining my justifications.*I know a lot of celebrities and business leaders who do me favors and give me free stuff.
Most autobiographies of real people suck.Biographies usually suck just as bad - and I'd know, I've read bios of every president and wealthy family in the U.S., the founding fathers, and on and on.
I have an MBA taught to me by eggheads who'd never spent much time in the real world, and this was one of the best business books I ever read.
America could do a lot worse.You'll learn a lot about the man and business and people, and if you're reading it with an open mind, you'll be glad you picked it up.
And perhaps this was always true, but I don’t know and I don’t feel I can trust this book to have not been anything other than a series of cherrypicked best examples.
When it comes to making a smart decision, the most distinguished planning committee working with the highest-priced consultants doesn’t hold a candle to a group of guys with a reasonable amount of common sense and their own money on the line.’ Repeatedly throughout this book Trump makes clear his disgust at the regulations that stop him from doing whatever it is he wants to do.
The final key to the way I promote is bravado. I play to people’s fantasies. People may not always think big themselves, but they can still get very excited by those who do. That’s why a little hyperbole never hurts. People want to believe something is the biggest and the greatest and the most spectacular.===================You can't con people, at least not for long. You can create excitement, you can do wonderful promotion and get all kinds of press, and you can throw in a little hyperbole. But if you won't deliver the goods, people will eventually catch on.
I have not read the book.But then hey, Trump did not write it.DONALD TRUMP’S GHOSTWRITER TELLS ALL27/03/2017Well, I guess he's not such a great deal-maker after all. The first chance he had to make one in the White House, he failed miserably.Or maybe he's just a dealer?04/08/2017I am interested in what kind of "deal" he's going to make with North Korea.
Everyone compares Trump to Hitler. I've read Mein Kampft and this book is nothing like it. What gives?
A remarkable treatise authored by a modern day Anglo-Saxon king.
He stands for his ideas & beliefs, even fights for them.Trump initially was only in the real estate business.
That is why he is so candid & sometimes even very blunt because he has so much confidence.Trump also writes in details about the huge deals that he undertook in the start of his career.
There are many useful insights regarding dealing with people especially in the business of real estate development.
He gives tips & suggestions which can be implemented for a successful deal.Overall this is a very informative & even a very interesting book for all those working in the real estate or any other business.
Also, circa 30% of the book concerns financial contracts and legalities, so prepare to parse thru some more nuanced fiscal landscapes.TIDBITS :—————-“I tend not to give up on something I started.”“I also earn more than $10 million in commissions as a sales agent from apartments in Trump Tower."“When you set the highest possible standards, they’re expected to maintain.”“A friend of mine is a highly successful and well known painter … A few months back he invited me to come to his studio.
** The most notorious example of all may be Ed Koch… He pays $350 a month… The worst thing, though, is that Koch doesn’t even live in his rent-controlled apartment.
If a reader is able to put any personal prejudice aside, a lot can be learned about business in general from this book.Interestingly, you'll also notice aspects of Trump's strategy and approaches to promotion that later served him well in the Presidential campaign.
So naturally, Trump made a business decision and had them torn down.What ensued was much public outrage and lots of bad press.
Controversy, in short, sells."In spite of the constant controversy that swirls around Donald Trump, I found this book to be a worthwhile and interesting read, with much insight into both the business world and the man himself.
I remember reading a book written by this dude." It all came flooding back.
If you're looking for a book on how to do deals - this is probably worth reading - but I just didn't get it.
You've got to hand it to him, he has accumulated the dollars, and not from being a dummy.
Gotta hand it to him though, he managed to fix up Wollman Rink.
Not a bad job Donny.Maybe my lowish score is because I have some sort of inferiority complex, or maybe I remember thinking, by buying his book, I was ripped off.
Maybe Donny read his own book again.
I read all but the last 40 pages or so of this book.
Pretty much, take a hands-on approach to your business, make your intentions known, and then wait until things fall into place for you to move.A lot of the time Trump was dealing with licensing and zoning boards.
He mentions many who took the opposite approach, and things didn’t go well for them.There’s a lot on him calling people up personally, and how these people were often happy to have that done.
There’s a lot on Trump choosing the marble for the floors or brass for railings, even taking an interest in air conditioning and piping.
SourceMr P and Mr T doing grown-up transactioningMy exclusive shelves:read currently-reading to-read wish-list lookedinto-decidedagainst off-tbr-and-into-wpb maybe noway-josé abandoned onhold
SourceMr P and Mr T doing grown-up transactioningMy exclusive shelves:read‎ currently-reading‎ to-read‎ wish-list‎ lookedinto-decidedagainst‎ off-tbr-and-into-wpb‎ maybe‎ noway-josé‎ abandoned‎ onhold‎
Perhaps a guilty pleasure, but I really enjoyed this book. It's both very readable and very engaging. It serves as a good example of what it means to be proactive.
Terribly uninteresting. Filled with mind numbing details of every deal he has ever done. Please don't read.
یک اتوبیگرافی از شرح زندگی و فعالیتهای تجاری ترامپ که خیلی کتاب مفیدی نیست
He never talks about mistakes or instances of bad judgment, only of collateral damage or the incompetency or bad intentions of people around him.
I couldn't be more confident that he has no intention to deport 11 million people if elected President, and he does not care what damage his message does, so long as it can be used as leverage for his own goals, which may be totally disconnected from his stated goals.In short, this book unintentionally offers some valuable insights into the Donald, however it is still was a general waste of time; one of the worst non-fictions I have ever chosen to pick up.
This is how Donald Trump made it into the business world.
I always find it interesting to find out how successful people made their breakthrough.Some snippets of wisdom I got from the book:-"I always go into the deal anticipating the worst.
I always come up with at least a half dozen approaches to making it work, because anything can happen, even to the best-laid plans."-"The worst thing you can possibly do in a deal is seem desperate to make it.
That makes the other guy smell blood, and then you're dead"Overall an interesting read and insight into the making of "The Donald".
if you ask, you just might get it
It is surprisingly accessible for a book about how to make successful business deals.
It contains a lot of wisdom that can be applied to life in general, about how to treat others and also about marketing yourself and your skills.The book documents various deals Trump is interested in during one week in his life.
Anyone who has any knowledge of Trump already knows that he is a straight talker and isn't afraid to tell the truth about people or situations as he sees it.
The same applies here, but it is written with a great sense of humour.
This is Trump in his 40's, debonair and confident.Very enjoyable and well worth the read!
2018 update: I no longer agree with any of the opinions or perceptions voiced in this review from four years ago.Trump's book was a really interesting read.
He provides lots of insight into his deals, from what he considers a good one to the intricate steps of the dance that is making a complex deal.
Moreover, Trump provides insight into his own thoughts and attitudes, his feelings on the world he lives in, and his place in it.It's easy to see Trump as a greedy rich man, but I think this book shows him as more human and less of a caricature.
At heart, Trump is a good guy, and a smart one.
I didn't expect to like this book, but I was amazed how boring it was!
I read this when I was thirteenish? I found it in a used bookstore and read it. The only thing I remember many, many years later is that it recommended washing your used car before selling it to get the best price, which seemed pretty obvious to me. Best summed up as forgettable.
If you are looking for a concrete explanation of this man, you will not find it here. While Mr. Trump writes eloquently of buildings that reach up for the stars, he says nothing substantive of his dreams or his nightmares. His inner life remains opaque to us. Defined by the baroque, Mr. Trump constructs a monument to himself in “Art of the Deal,” and like so many casinos and hotels, it offers little beyond its glossy mass-produced surface.
I had to put it down. This man's ego is really something. I did find it interesting however to draw the line from his thoughts in this book to how is like on the campaign trail.

This is partially a biography but also shows an insight of what Trump is thinking about in the heat of a deal. It starts out giving a week of his life explaining his daily habits. But, where it really gets to be about the serious business life as we know is when he explains the “Elements of The Deal”. He gives characteristics of a quality deal-making situation and how he uses it in his profession. Then he has flashbacks of the good times of his juvenile days in New York growing up with his fami
Then he has flashbacks of the good times of his juvenile days in New York growing up with his family and looking up to his father, Fred Trump, a hard-working and hard man.
***** 5 out of 5 stars, Honestly, I really don’t believe too many people these days would like this book unless you are interested in the heavy deal-making strategies necessary to learn to be successful.
It’s like having a front row seat to a deal-making speech.
This is recommended to ages 14 and up, unless you have some sort of business outlet in your life like I had, my father.
The Art of The Deal by Donald Trump is one of the best books I have read in a long time.
This quote refers to the part of the book where Trump purchases two apartment buildings next to Central Park.
By this time the new fad in architecture is older historic buildings with character.
Donald ends up keeping all the tenants and just restores the current buildings and made a tremendous profit.
I’d recommend this book to people who want to know more about Donald Trump and his style of conducting business.
