https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10562168-bliss
Un relato de tintes poéticos sobre la soledad y la melancolía.24.06.2016Después de descubrir gracias a Mª Ángeles Cabré que Katherine Mansfield fue una de las autoras favoritas de las escritoras Isak Dinesen y Carson McCullers, yo, por mi parte, le sigo rindiendo pleitesía también.Leí "La mosca": http://www.ciudadseva.com/textos/cuen...Un relato sobre la crueldad de la guerra y el instinto de supervivencia.
Vila- Matas opina lo siguiente: "Pero mi amiga no era Marguerite Duras, más bien estaba emparentada con el entrañable Olmo y, sobre todo, con Katherine Mansfield, cuentista neozelandesa que escribió "La mosca", uno de los mejores cuentos del siglo pasado.
Fantástica, Mansfield.Leído aquí: http://ciudadseva.com/texto/matrimoni...
She goes upstairs to dress, and soon thereafter her guests and husband arrive for dinner.زمانی که بارتا منتظر مهمانان است، از پنجره به بیرون نگاه میکند و درخت گلابی با شکوفه های بازش را میبیند که به وسیله دو گربه آسیب دیده است.
پرل دوباره وارد اتاق میشود تا از بارتا برای مهمانی تشکر کند.برتا به سمت پنجره می رود و با خود میگوید :" حالا چه اتفاقی قرار است بی افتد" اما بیرون درخت گلابی مثل همیشه است.*Characters:Pearl FultonPearl Fulton is Bertha’s enigmatic مرموزnew friend in the story.
This feeling of attachment is confirmed when Bertha discovers that Pearl is having an affair with her husband, Harry.Mrs. KnightMrs. Knight and her husband are guests at Bertha’s dinner party.
I thought the title story "Bliss" was just wonderful, but I didn't really understand the other two. But I definitely want to read more of Mansfield now.
Mansfield's short stories are delightful, so much so that she has made me want to read more of them, and not just hers. I haven't read a lot of short stories. I suppose it is time I change that.
En novell på 21 sidor. En elak och sorglig betraktelse. I modern svensk översättning av Christina Stalby.
Although she did sound as if she wanted to reassure herself on the normality of her life, the extreme towards which she took her feelings and the moment they share outside of the kitchen are beautiful, but you can tell that she is almost wearing blinkers (the glasses horses wear to obstruct their peripheral vision), in the sense that she takes into account the things that confirm her opinion on current events — which is a trait that is very human, although here taken to a new level.
The introduction of implied homosexuality is subversive and shocking for its time (1918) — for both the poet and Bertha —, but it is also in line with Bertha’s wish to be “modern”, although she consciously focuses on superficial and shallow aspects of this modernity.
О, а такий модернізм мені по нраву.
Майже безсюжетний, яскравий, прозорий, якийсь аж пурхаючий, але емоційно пронизливий, як комариний писк серед глупої ночі.Bliss здається лайт-версією "Місіс Делловей", але за спалахом щастя сердешної Берти Янґ визирають такі драми, що де там лайт.
The Daughters of the Late Colonels - ідеальна готика без готики, я вже чекала, що в сюжет нарешті зійде привид покійного батечка і все спростить, але без привидів виходить значно страшніше.
The Doll's House - my precious, шикарний ляльковий дім як чинник побудови дитячої ієрархії і - водночас - об'єкт чистого мистецтва для наймолодших - це ж прекрасно абсолютно.Даремно я побоювалася збірок Кетрін Менсфілд.
Її гуртом треба читати, три новелки - то надто мало.
I loved it desperately, desperately!
4/5I actually really enjoyed this small collection of short stories by Katherine Mansfield.I found 'Bliss' to be poignant and thought-provoking.
Analysis --> "Through the portrayal of the predicament of the Kelveys, Mansfield brings out the class consciousness that was faithfully handed down by one generation to another, from parents to children and vice versa.
Moreover, through the deft portrayal of the character of Kezia, Mansfield tries to challenge the existing social class consciousness which was wreaking havoc on the social fabric." (Source) I enjoyed the story at face value, to be honest, and only sought out the meanings afterwards.
A very quick, enjoyable read. You find yourself flying through this story because Mansfield writes with such urgency and you feel like you need to find out what's going to happen. There's clearly a lot going on in this story and I think I need to do some reading around before I can fully understand why events played out as they did, but even without that external knowledge I very much enjoyed this. If you're a fan of short stories and female writers then I'd urge you to give this a look.
I didn't get it, but I liked it.
That was tragic. :(
Her narrative style is imaginable & it takes you away from your ordinary life to a state of contentment & blissfulness.
Both the stories are about sad & lonely women, who thinks they are happy or are trying to find joy by living their lives to the fullest.
Same happens to the protagonist, Bertha of this story, living a rich & luxurious life.
Her life is in bliss for having a husband & a baby.
What a tragic end to her blissful life :( Now, coming back to the title of the story..
The truth is it was never a BLISSful life!
The title story has a strong emotional current between Bertha Young and Miss Foulton, which I think could be interpreted as the unconventional homosexual love between those two women.
"The Daughters of the Late Colonel" is my favourite, in which Mansfield tells the story of two elderly spinsters' possibly new life after their manipulative and intimidating father's death.
Yet what I love most about the story is they way Mansfield writes about the interesting relationship among little girls.
I'd be glad to read more of Mansfield's stories.
The moral of this story is that there will always be two people in a marriage. Just because you feel absolute bliss doesn't mean your husband's not diddling a woman you may or may not have sexual feeling for.
How had I never read Mansfield before?! Simply delightful and exactly what I'd been wanting to read.
Katherine Mansfield's stories are fiction but they always touch on something remarkably true. A pleasure.
Excellent story. I really recommend it to everybody who likes romance.
Blev fullständigt fångad av bokens inledning: "Trots att Bertha Young hade fyllt trettio kunde hon fortfarande uppleva ögonblick som detta, då hon ville springa i stället för att gå, ta små danssteg upp och ner på trottoarkanten, rulla tunnband, kasta upp något i luften och fånga det igen, eller stå stilla och skratta åt - ingenting - ingenting, helt enkelt." Mina förväntningar som följde införlivades dock ej.
(Jag kan känna igen den sortens rus som egentligen är destruktivt och vill ha mer tills man kraschar.) Mansfield använder en skrytig middagsbjudning som skådeplats för att framhäva detta.
Jag är inte helt säker på vad det är novellen ska handla om, eller vad den vill säga, men jag antar att det handlar om lycksalighet i allmänhet. Det är definitivt en beskrivning av hur lycksalighet i en person kan se ut - men även hur avbrupt den kan försvinna. Men det är mest en mysig liten novell som ger en intressant inblick i det mer eller mindre vardagliga livet såg ut hos ett par under 1910-talet.
I kept hearing about this story and finally read it online. I still prefer "The Garden Party" but it was as good as I was told. I did immediately see where it was going, but that's the result of my reading experiences and no fault of the author.
She is a truly gifted writer for sure. With her powerful words you can feel the scenes and even though, the contents of these stories mostly relate to everyday and domestic life, you find yourself thinking about further, more serious issues like morality, inequality and racism.
Marking this as read because I've read Bliss like five times this year. I deserve this.
Hjärtskärande.
Like the way she writes, but had a hard time getting the character's reactions and interaction with eachother. I guess I have to reread it again!
Just reading
Letto in italiano. 4 e 1/2
'(...) You're asleep.' 'I don't think I am,' said Constantia. She shut her eyes to make sure. She was.
Not the worst short story I've had to read for my modernism class. So weird, but so interesting. Also that plot twist ending tho
Find of the year, Katherine Mansfield.I picked up At The Bay [1922] in Wellington this summer (pressie from Pippa) - you must read it - it's sublime.
Woolf's paws are all over it.
And Bliss [1920] is a mixed blessing.I would direct you - and you'd never do better than to follow this piece of generous-spirited advice - to any of the collections of Mansfield's short stories - what a shame there are no novels!
- Oxford World's Classics's Selected Stories [2002] or Penguin's The Collected Short Stories [1981], the latter being a very generous compendium.
