https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9865.The_Moor_s_Last_Sigh
Rushdie is a smart, ingenious and purposeful writer.
The novel seems another example of what is by now a well-established genre in the literature of the subcontinent, that of magical allegories of the history of its Independence.
I preferred the earlier novel.In this genre I also liked Shashi Tharoor's The Great Indian Novel, in which he mixes the Mahabharata with the account of the Partition.Since Rushdies’s Enchantress of Florence is on my bookshelves anyway, I will certainly read one more of his books and hopefully will like it better.But here is a brilliant review of the Moor that does the book better justice:http://www.nytimes.com/books/99/04/18...
I admit that I had already given The Moor‘s Last Sigh by Salman Rushdie a couple of unsuccessful tries before I finally challenged myself to reading it in one go a couple of weeks ago.
If one can love and hate a book at the same time, admire and despise it, crave for more and wish to finish it immediately, then I experienced it as well while turning the pages of The Moor‘s Last Sigh.
And at the same time I hated the slowness of the plot, which became even slower mixed with my incapacity to read Rusdhie‘s ornate language faster.
But I should end now, though I have a lot more to babble-o-fy about, I know… What all did I like in this Rushdie, let me sum up fast – the blasphemy, the profanity, the creativity, the chutneyfication of language, the masterly interweaving of fact and fiction, the literary references generously peppered all over the hot, spicy dish, the scathing political references that only a bold, fearless, audacious and blasphemous person can dare to make.
So I still don’t know who Kekoo Mody is in real life, or Justice Kachrawala is (the Bofors scandal judge, I think) This little book, didn’t I say, is a dynamite filled to the brim with everything Rushdie could squeeze in…?
But I should end now, though I have a lot more to babble-o-fy about, I know… What all did I like in this Rushdie, let me sum up fast – the blasphemy, the profanity, the creativity, the chutneyfication of language, the masterly interweaving of fact and fiction, the literary references generously peppered all over the hot, spicy dish, the scathing political references that only a bold, fearless, audacious and blasphemous person can dare to make.
So I still don’t know who Kekoo Mody is in real life, or Justice Kachrawala is (the Bofors scandal judge, I think) This little book, didn’t I say, is a dynamite filled to the brim with everything Rushdie could squeeze in…?
Gripping and whimsical story spanning a century of one Indian family's business, artistic, and leisure endeavors. Rushdie's writing is like candy, with sweet turns-of-phrase and quirky Dickensian characters, leaving the reader craving the next page. With Garcia Marquez-ish elements of magical realism and a pervading sinister feeling, like Dumas.
هل هذه الرواية هي أفضل ما كتبه سلمان رشدي؟.. لا أدري ولكنها مزيج ساحر وباهر جدا من الواقعية السحرية (سلمان رشدي هو أحد أساتذة هذا الفن مع ماركيز وغونتر غراس وميخائيل بولغاكوف) والملاحم العائلية اللذيذة والميلودرامية وتمتزج مع أسلوب سلمان رشدي الفكاهي والمضحك في تناول تفاصيل التاريخ الهندي من بعد الاستقلال عن بريطانيا. أظن أن هناك ترجمة عربية صدرت حديثا، أتمنى أن تكون أمينة لجمال وذكاء النص الأصلي.أنصح بها.
Squeezed into a paperback, it spans nearly a century, and through the tumultuous history of the Zogoibys as they enlarge their pepper trade in Cochin (wasn’t it with spices, the ‘hot’ pepper that it all started?) to a national scale diversification of all kinds of ‘spices’ of life, cruising through the intense political scenes of Independence movement to newly-acquired freedom to communal bloodshed to Indira Gandhi-led Emergency to the proliferation of the Mumbai Underworld Mafia in the 1980s and the 1990s with a parallel Upperworld Political communal Mafia, Rushdie, the master puppeteer creates a show where the Zogoibys, as Kalliope rightly points out, are the puppets of Mother India, the various myths that Mother India is, the various false myths Mother India is, and also the children of that passionately loving, passionately cruel Mother that are entranced and entrapped, approaching their doom with double the speed they are supposed to travel, and all by their own terrified consent.
The Moor's Last Sigh is Rushdie's best book since Midnight's Children and is superior to The Ground Beneath Her Feet.
Rushdie puts his spin on the multi-generational family novel.
Like most such novels, it takes awhile to get the characters and families straight, but once you have the whole picture, you can begin to enjoy the magic that Rushdie is weaving through this genre.
As in Midnight's Children, Rushdie's characters are set in the context of India's turbulent history, and in typical Rushdie fashion, it isn't clear whether history is affecting the family or the family is molding history.
I almost stopped reading this a number of times, but I have a thing about finishing books.
Salman Rushdie is one wordy motherfucker, the opposite of what I tend to enjoy.
His narrative is baroque, dripping with dramatic asides and rhetorical questions to the reader, teasing hooks, and a number of other devices I don't enjoy.
Still, I am interested in India, and there was enough about Indian culture and history to allow me to finish it out.
I read a good introduction by him to an Anglea Carter book that was more restrained and concise.
It combines the lyrical mysticism of Midnight's Children with the hard-nosed magical-realism of the "present-day" sections of The Satanic Verses.
I found Midnight's Children to have an almost apocolyptic feeling about it, especially in the later chapters -- this is hardly a knock against it.
But I feel like The Moor's Last Sigh, while it certainly comes to a climactic head much as Midnight's Children, does so in a way that you feel is, I suppose, more thematically complete.
In this way, Midnight's Children might be subtitled, "The Amazing Adventures of Saleem Sinai in Post-Colonial India" whereas The Moor's Last Sigh requires no subtitle whatsoever.
This was a beautiful book about the end of Arab rule of Spain and has made me dream for years (unfulfilled as of yet :( to visit Alhambra in Andalusia. Full of melancholy and some eye-opening facts, it is one of Rushdie's finest efforts and a worthy read after Midnight's Children.
Squeezed into a paperback, it spans nearly a century, and through the tumultuous history of the Zogoibys as they enlarge their pepper trade in Cochin (wasn’t it with spices, the ‘hot’ pepper that it all started?) to a national scale diversification of all kinds of ‘spices’ of life, cruising through the intense political scenes of Independence movement to newly-acquired freedom to communal bloodshed to Indira Gandhi-led Emergency to the proliferation of the Mumbai Underworld Mafia in the 1980s and the 1990s with a parallel Upperworld Political communal Mafia, Rushdie, the master puppeteer creates a show where the Zogoibys, as Kalliope rightly points out, are the puppets of Mother India, the various myths that Mother India is, the various false myths Mother India is, and also the children of that passionately loving, passionately cruel Mother that are entranced and entrapped, approaching their doom with double the speed they are supposed to travel, and all by their own terrified consent.
In this case Hindu fundamentalism is castigated via the character of Raman Fielding, an erstwhile cartoonist transformed into a Hindu nationalist, Rushdie explores the seeds of the nationalistic fervour which is increasingly dominating Indian society, in the early stages of the independence movement and the affect their dogmatic and parochial views have on the minorities they persecuted-in this case the Jewish, Christian and Islamic communities of southern India.
It's a long and rough read. As far as magic realism goes, it's not quite Midnight's Children - more just interesting, rather than compelling. Would still recommend giving it a try, but with checked expectations. 3,8/5
I would read some and then put it down for a few days, then try to resume and be entirely confused about who was who because there are so many characters and relationships introduced at the beginning, it's very hard to keep track.
At first the story seemed confusing and meandering until I got all the characters and relationships figured out.
Once I got into it I found the characters and their relationships very intriguing.
This was my first Rushdie book, not sure if I'll read another anytime soon.
The story of several generations of a dysfunctional Bombay family, their eccentricities and decadence, is full raw emotion and set into the colourful development of India’s history.
Throughout a great portion of the novel Bombay itself is not only the setting but as equally a protagonist as the human characters.
Even the character of the family father seems eaten up by them, since he is either the shadow of a man or a typical modern bad guy, but never acquires a second or a third dimension.You could, as always, tell the author at once by his style, syntax and trademark structure.
At the time, I thought this is IT, this is what writing should be---but since then magic realism has become somewhat over-used---as a sort of crutch to make boring ideas interesting--similar to stream-of-conciousness rambling a generation earlier (oh yes, when it's good it's very good, but oh-so-often it is a cover for poor writing).
I'm not saying that Rushdie does this HERE however---as I recall this is a solid read, though by no means a point of entry to Rushdie's work (Midnight's Children would be a much better gateway in my opinion).
I probably should read this again--but I just don't have the heart.
The novel was an anomaly for me. 5* for a book that I abandoned when I reached the middle and resumed reading after more than a year. It was probably the only book that I've abandoned and continued after some time. So glad I did it. Magical realism at its best.
Mislim da je kraj malo zbrzan, sto je totalno nevazno, samo mi je malo umanjilo uzivanje. Ovo epsko putovanje kroz meni totalno nepoznatu kulturu itekako zasluzuje max. ocenu.Jedva cekam da se ponovo druzim sa Rusdijem!
The Bombay of this evocative, frequently beautiful and brilliantly written novel witnesses glory in the past, in the freewheeling exuberance of the 1950s and 1960s, populated by snobbish filmstars, belligerent artists, shrewd crime overlords and happily corrupt policemen, a city of vice and opportunity, of both high art and ghetto aesthetic, of both elitist social gatherings on Sundays at the Mahalaxmi Racecourse and elaborate Ganesh Chaturthi processions, both of which still happen today in my city.
We see all this through the eyes of its warped protagonist Moraes Zogoiby, the book's titular Moor, the Boabdil of the narrative who sighs wistfully when he witnesses the fortress of his own city besieged by forces that would bring it down.
The family claims to count Vasco Da Gama among its ancestors and generates or attracts plenty of interesting and eccentric characters with each generation, whose lives sometimes intertwine with historical figures and movements such as the Ghandi's, Nehru, the painter Amrita Sher-Gil, Hindu fanaticism, corruption etc.
His mother was a genius painter and the heiress of the business while his father was a Cochin Jew whose own mother claimed to be a descendant of the Jews fleeing Spain together with the last Moorish ruler of Granada.
But between those two points Rushdie, in impeccable form, creates a fantastical exploration of Indian history, presents complex arguments about and descriptions of art, and questions the place and meaning of various religious affiliations on societies as a whole.The plot is a dazzling mechanism which plays like a modern fairy tale, while simultaneously developing many layers of subtext that enrich the reading experience immeasurably.
I certainly felt this was the best Rushdie novel I have yet read.
– For may one negotiate with a Fact, sir?
– Sir, it cares not if you approach it or leave it alone: best, then, to accept it and go your ways.
Are old Facts never to be replaced by new ones, like lamps; like shows and ships and every other blessed thing?
– So: if they are, then it shows us only this – that they never were Facts to begin with, but mere Poses, Attitudes, and Shams.
The true Fact is not your burning Candle, to subside limply in a stiff pool of wax; nor yet your Electric Bulb, so tender of filament, and short-lived as the Moth that seeks it out.
Midway through it my interest fizzled out, either because it didn't have enough direction or the narrator seemed to be choking on his english-hindu hybrid language.
In a lot of ways it was similar to Midnight's Children in that we get to follow a family saga through the history of India and the narrator has a supernatural issue.
I didn't really want to read a second Midnight's Children, so that may have dampened the interest a bit.
But what it severely lacked was that drive to get the reader out of the middle doldrums, when even some of the best plotless books tend to drag on a bit.
That I could taste the smells of a land I'd never been to.
That I could fall in love with the way this man took you on a little turn.
I read this book every morning after I returned from coaching...a top the little village of Sha Tin in New Territories of Hong Kong...always with my Marks and Spencer from a box cappuccino.
It was the first book I read there and I remember it so well because I got to actually enjoy it.
That was my introduction to THE Salman Rushdie..As of today, I've read everything he's written.
I read this book flirtatiously.
Which is to say that I used to always see the same gorgeous man on the bus.
And one day I decided to make him laugh by taking the same book he was reading: which is how I ended up reading The Moor's Sigh.
And I got totally wrapped up in this beautiful story which will stay with me forever.As for the man with the dreadlocks....well, I met someone else and forgot all about him until about a year later when it occurred to me that I hadn't seen him on the bus for a while and he must have moved.
Als liefde niet alles is, dan is ze niets. Bedrog, haat, wraak en moord vormen de ingrediënten van een spannend verhaal waarin alles uiteindelijk om de liefde draait: verzengende peperliefde, moederliefde, liefde voor schoonheid en kunst. Rushdie is een rasverteller met een uitzonderlijk rijke verbeelding. Luchtig en spitsvondig verweeft hij de lotgevallen van de families Da Gama en Zogoiby met de Indiase geschiedenis en religieuze kwesties. Rushdies taal is zwierig, bijna barok en krioelt van
Als liefde niet alles is, dan is ze niets.
Bedrog, haat, wraak en moord vormen de ingrediënten van een spannend verhaal waarin alles uiteindelijk om de liefde draait: verzengende peperliefde, moederliefde, liefde voor schoonheid en kunst. Rushdie is een rasverteller met een uitzonderlijk rijke verbeelding. Luchtig en spitsvondig verweeft hij de lotgevallen van de families Da Gama en Zogoiby met de Indiase geschiedenis en religieuze kwesties. Rushdies taal is zwierig, bijna barok en krioelt van woordspelletjes en persiflerende verwijzingen naar film, muziek en literatuur. Een wervelend boek dat je onderdompelt in een heel eigen wereld.
Giliai atsidūsau ir ėmiausi šios knygos, nors po pirmosios mano perskaitytos Salmano knygos „Vidurnakčio vaikai“, sau daviau tokį netvirtą pažadą – daugiau jokio Rushdie! Pažadą sulaužiau. Knygą perskaičiau. Ir tai jau pliusas, nes „Vidurnakčio vaikų“ įveikti neįstengiau (o ir nelabai stengiausi). Abu šie romanai man panašūs, todėl tikiuosi, kad jei kada skaitysiu trečią Rushdie romaną, jis bus visai kitoks. Bet spėju, kad nuo mano nemėgstamo magiškojo realizmo ir Indijos politinių/istorinių reikalų vis tiek nepabėgčiau...
Most of the Group found the episode unsatisfying; further, we would hazard a guess that the reason why Adam disappears is not that Rushdie is following traditional Indian models but that he is only half-heartedly committed to satirizing the business-school ethos; he abandons this particular narrative strand because it is leading nowhere.Others disagreed, enjoying the stories of Adam and other personages who blazed briefly across the pages of The Moor’s Last Sigh and then expired….This is an extract from a review at http://monthlybookgroup.wordpress.com/.
Writing ,characters and backdrop This is my first rushdie and I am blown away.
Mainly the last 15 years before Independence and 20 years post independence.Rushdie is not kind to the British who ruled India and committed unspeakably atrocities and neither on Indian politicians.
Rushdie slyly uses language to deceptively shield sharp,scathing and downright damning criticism of Indian politicians.
I think it was in a way good that Rushdie was away from India during this time being in hiding because of the fatwa.
Agreed it was not a very insightful movie but the masses liked it and it was a huge hit.
