https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84699.Never_Eat_Alone
I picked it up to get some tips on networking for a new business we're starting and it eventually began grating on my nerves.
A large network is great but I am not about to start proclaiming that having hundreds of people as contacts is what's going to make me successful.
I just looked at a book list my company has created on great books to improve yourself in business, life, etc.
This was on it and I immediately assumed all the other books were trash - which shows how much my dislike of Ferrazzi must have infiltrated my brain over the years since reading this.
nothing authentic here. i need to stop picking up cheetos-colored books.
Then, share your passions; invite people into your personal life by sharing meals, hobbies, and events.
Identify the people, places, and things required to meet those goals.3.
aim high, then compromiseInvite people from different parts of your network to events so they get to know each other.The quality of time you spend with people is more important than the quantity.Follow up within 12-24 hours of meeting someone1.
Birthdays are the best time.Throw dinner parties with a mix of people.Use "anchor tenants" to bridge to others outside your social circle.Connect with the famous and powerful through organizations, clubs, conferences, fundraisers, nonprofit boards, sports, etc.
Never Eat Alone looks like another career-oriented self-help book aimed at elevating one's wealth and making connections to get ahead.
A few of the other highlights in this book include: the idea of finding your blue fame (where your passion and practical abilities intersect), Ferrazzi writing that we should introspect more about our values and that we should seek therapy if we want it, and his note to stay humble, even when you feel like a great success.I have a few critiques of Never Eat Alone, too.
Ferrazzi has an interesting blog for Never Eat Alone and Phil Terry of Creative Good suggested I give it a go to help connect with folks at the Gel conference this week.The book is about how to meet people and develop deeper relationships more quickly.
Ferrazzi shares his philosophy on life--you can't succeed without the help of others--and outlines strategies to make connecting easier.
These strategies are a reinforcement of the Golden Rule, and they boil down to things like:  Always looking to help or connect people, 
It started out really good.
Mr. Ferrazzi talked about the importance of treating others well and not just networking because of what you can get out of it.
Then it turned into the story of why Kieth Ferrazzi totally rocks and is so successful.
He went from talking about why you should treat people well and not look for the big sale to how to meet people who will land you the big sale.
When he started blabbing about how people in first class are so special and people in coach are just not...well guess what Keithy Boy we will never meet cause I always fly coach.
TL;DR It's better to know everyone in the world than not know them. Great networking book.
Filled with wisdom. Loved it.
I sat through a brilliant networking lecture a few months ago and I kept thinking about how much more good you can do in the world if you have built relationships with people.
The lecture really got me thinking about the value of building relationships with others in order to better serve them.
It mentioned several characters (Benjamin Franklin) and books (How to Win Friends and Influence People) that I just love.
The book seems to follow in a similar style to How to Win Friends and Influence People, which gives you a selfish reason to be nice, here he gives you a selfish reason to reach out, to give, to create and support communities.
I read about this book some time back and finally taken the time to read it.
My goal in reading this was to improve my own networking and relationship building skills while staying true to my own values and principles.
Ferrazzi’s approach is aggressive and there are something’s that simply do not work well for me.
Not a page turner but overall this was worth the read.
I appreciated Ferrazi’s rise from working class roots.
This is also a practical how to book, with simple examples of how to do things, break the ice, and initiate conversations and relationships.
Much of what the book talked about was what I already knew.
I didn't like how he talked about mostly cliche advice like "Find your passion and things like money will naturally follow”.
Also, it seemed that Ferrazzi was trying to use the book as some kind of a biography to brag about his accomplishments.
He may be qualified to be like that because I do think what he achieved is impressive, and I have nothing against being proud of oneself.
He also seems very elitist, and I feel that much of his advice wouldn't be as easily applicable for people with no Ivy League background.
И подметил некую тенденцию в этих самых отзывах :) Если книгу читал ярко выраженный экстраверт - он отзывался о ней с восхищением, и давал самые высокие оценки: "Очень полезная книга для жизни!
и т.п.) Мне лично прочитать книгу очень хотелось хотя бы потому, что я - выраженный интраверт, с людьми схожусь долго и вдумчиво :) Именно поэтому было вдвойне любопытно поверить столь противоречивые отзывы о книге собственными впечатлениями.
:)Что не понравилось: на уровне стратегии книга содержит очень серьезное противоречие.
Что как-то не очень сочетается с пафосом про "отдавать" :) Книга написана "из образа" эдакого драйвового тусовщика, рубахи-парня, который всем (а у него 5000 фамилий в записной книжке) направо и налево "отдаёт".
So as some of my friends said, you have the feeling of shallowness in relationships.
Here are, however, some things that are worth to be noted:- if you never ask, the answer is always no- respect the goalkeeper's role and make them your friend- the follow-up is the hammer and nails of your networking tool kit - the most memorable gifts I have ever received are those whose value could not be measured in terms of dollars and cents- a commando knows that you have to get people to like you first.
- If 80 percent of success is, as Woody Allen once said, just show-ing up, then 80 percent of building and maintaining relationships is just staying in touch.- The lesson?
This book provides me with some outstanding networking advices, such as categorizing your contacts, pinging, be a person of content and reciprocity.
However, this book is a bit general (especially Section 5: Trading Up and Giving Back) because in my opinion, body language and small talk are more important to connect with people.
This book is more about maintaining your contacts rather than recommending what you should say in the first place.
If you are a newbie or a graduate student like I am, I highly recommend How to Talk to Anyone: 92 Little Tricks for Big Success in Relationships which is more applicable in every life situation.
Та з певної глави я зрозуміла, що ця своєрідна щирість Кейта Феррацці - нагода для добродушного сміху і більшої довіри до його порад.
Адже автор не намагається прикрасити своє вміння налагоджувати і підтримувати велику мережу контактів, вміло використовувати їх для своїх цілей, проектів і задумів, бо він і справді спеціаліст у цьому.
Ну от, читаєш, спочатку аж дивно і неприємно від "штучності" всього процесу, а з кількома сторінками, розділами стає зрозуміло, що це підхід відвертого Феррацці, я ж можу застосовувати його в тій мірі, яку буду вважати прийнятною для себе.
After writing down the information about someone he just met, Clinton said, “I’m going into politics and plan to run for governor of Arkansas, and I’m keeping track of everyone I meet.Don’t wait until you’re out of a job, or on your own, to begin reaching out to others.
Then I remember the Big Wheel my father got me, and push ahead anyway.It’s not necessarily strong contacts, like family and close friends, that prove the most powerful; to the contrary, often the most important people in our network are those who are acquaintances.
This book goes into the Top 10 Must Reads that I recommend to everyone in every profession.
The principles of "connecting" strike a nerve of truth that gives power to the actionable steps the author suggests.
I love the new vocabulary that this book gives us in reference to networking.
Essentially we learn in this book that relationships are our greatest assets and that our best relationships are those in which we create high value for people we care about.
This is the skill that must be honed.
Caring about more people and discovering how we can create more value for them.
Typical Business 1.0 good-old-boy network "what can you do for me?" advice. If this guy asked me to lunch, I'd be immediately suspicious of his motives.
My god. This was too wishy-washy and self-helpy that I had to put it down after 40 pages.
I learned that real networking was about finding ways to make other people more successful.
Every successful person I’ve met shared, in varying degrees, a zeal for goal setting.
In my initial conversation with someone I’m just getting to know, whether it’s a new mentee or simply a new business contact, I try to find out what motivations drive that person.
Real power comes from being indispensable… coming from being a switchboard, parceling out as much information, contacts, and good will to as many people – in as many different worlds – as possible.
Nonetheless, this book is a great read for 2 specific reasons: (1) making connections should be a lifestyle choice, rather than an opportunistic chore one does occasionally to advance in life; (2) it is possible to cultivate a mindset and a set of skills to establish sincere and worthwhile relationships in today's world.
Ferrazzi realized early in life the importance of relationships and has since worked out ways to mitigate the difficulties of starting and maintaining connections (warm the cold calls, follow up, provide social arbitrage, and don't keep score, etc.)  Overall, Never Eat Alone is worth reading if you are in search for the ins and outs of networking and to learn how to manage and advance your career in today's world.
What I liked: The book has some helpful pointers for those who are shy or who are not inclined to engage with strangers.
I think it is also helpful that the author emphasizes that it isn't easy, or natural, even for extroverts to put themselves out there all the time.
I also appreciated that he shared some of his rejections, showing that even the best networkers strike out sometimes.What I didn't like: Sometimes the author is too braggy , which is off-putting.
I very much doubt his assertion that the friend will just be glad to hear from you at all.
I honestly don't get why people rave about this. I didn't find anything insightful in it. Even before I got to the parts where he praises Donald Trump's networking "skills," I could tell he subscribes to that style of manipulation/inflated self worth. The advice is all trivial, nothing you haven't heard a dozen times before. Skip it.
Up until reading this book, I thought conferences were all about listening to keynote speeches / sermons, and then I wondered when all the "conferring" was supposed to happen!
And that's the essence of Ferrazzi's book - how to build and sustain relationships that create synergy and upward mobility.
And if you don't mind being reminded of this every couple of pages, this is the book for you!That said, it's often an enjoyable read, and I found a lot here that I intend to put into practice.
I am sure I will be referring to this book in the future.
Cuộc sống của chúng ta là tổng hòa của các mối quan hệ, những mạng lưới đầy phức tạp và đan xen.Đây là cuốn sách cần phải đọc để học được những cách thức tối ưu hóa những mối quan hệ đã, đang và sắp có của bạn.
Không chỉ trong công việc mà còn trong cuộc sống.
Đời sẽ bớt cô đơn đi một chút, Công việc sẽ dễ thở hơn một chút và tôi tin là cơ hội cũng sẽ đến nhanh hơn nếu chúng ta biết nắm bắt và tận dụng mạng lưới do chính tay ta dệt nên.Bản dịch này không tốt lắm, một số câu văn được biên tập chưa kỹ.
Nhưng dù sao, rất nên có trong tủ.
Catchy title but this book bored me to tears. I stuck with it for a few months, reading bit by bit, hoping that somewhere i could discover some gem of a wisdom. But each passing day I got more and more nauseated and finally decided to just file it for good.Nothing new in here, just the same run of the mill advice on how to build contacts. Most of the book sounded insincere, cliched - and some parts just sounded like bs to me. The bragging n self congratulatory tone were rally tiring.
"Never Eat Lunch Alone" – On how to build relationships in all walks of life with depth and meaning.
The one book that could get me to see how networking ties in with my long term goals
S navazováním a rozvíjením vztahů celý život bojuji.
Jsem introvert z relativně asociální, mononukleární rodiny, která udržování vztahů nikdy nepřikládala zase tak velký význam.
Teprve postupem času jsem přicházela na to, že vztahy jsou hodně důležité pro práci a život obecně.
Keith mi pomohl dívat se na vytváření vztahů a sítí trošku efektivnějším způsobem.
Uvědomila jsem si, že je třeba se jim věnovat soustavně a cíleně.
A hlavně se jsem odbourala svou obavu z využívání ve vztazích jednou či druhou stranou díky tipu, dívat se na každého nového člověka jako na potenciálního celoživotního kamaráda či kamarádku.
Přesně takový podnět, inspiraci a informace jsem dlouho hledala.
This book is highly practical (on how to network), while at the same time also insightfull.
The elaborations usually starts with a broader idea on networking, followed by stories based on Ferrazzi's experience that we can follow.
As any book that's highly practical, some example from this book felt outdated, or not really suitable to me personally.
No chapter in this book a boring read, mainly because of its authenticity and his fascinating story telling.
I am glad that Ferrazzi not only shared his success story but also some mistakes he made early in his career.Overall this book is a great read.
