https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4708.The_Beautiful_and_Damned
Written during the golden age of jazz, his second novel looks at the rise and fall of young couple Anthony Patch and Gloria Gilbert, through their first meeting, courtship, and marriage.
Gloria, admirably sharp and witty at first, deliquesces and loses her personality as Fitzgerald grows intimate with her, until toward the end we find her speaking very little as problems start to mount.
Also minor characters written about actually felt sharper than that of Antony and Gloria, even though in the novel they are limited to scenes here and there.
Indulgent eloquence, uneven pacing, unsympathetic characters, a generally poor plot, and a terrible ending made it difficult for me to even finish this book.
I don't care, because I hated both of them 100 pages in and didn't want to read any more about them.Then, the book just keeps going, and going… It finally gets interesting when Anthony goes off to military boot camp (i.e. the first time anything actually happens in the plot other than Anthony and Gloria partying).
The pacing and tone has improved and tightened considerably at this point, and shows Fitzgerald's promise in later novels.
The work is generally considered to have drawn upon and be based on Fitzgerald's relationship and marriage with his wife Zelda Fitzgerald.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و دوم ماه نوامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: زیبا و ملعون؛ اثر: فرانسیس اسکات فیتزجرالد؛ مترجم: سهیل سمی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ققنوس، 1390، در 496 ص، ادبیات جهان 104، رمان 89، شابک: 9789643119348، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی سده 20 مرمان «زیبا و ملعون» همانند دیگر نگاره های فیتزجرالد، شیوه ی پخته شدن جوان‌های رمانتیک و خام را، در بستر جامعه‌ ی آمریکایی بیان می‌کند، و نشان می‌دهد که چگونه از آن‌ها توهم‌ زدایی شده، و به واقعیت‌های زندگی آمریکا وارد می‌شوند.
Fitzgerald wasn't joking with that title. These people were completely screwed from the moment they hit the page, and it was fascinating to watch it all disintegrate. As I mentioned in the review I just finished for  Tender is the Night , I found Anthony and Gloria to be some of the more unsympathetic characters I've encountered lately. They are both vain and shallow and utterly useless people in terms of anything practical. I can't imagine being friends with these people. This book worked for m
Fitzgerald wasn't joking with that title.
These people were completely screwed from the moment they hit the page, and it was fascinating to watch it all disintegrate.
They are both vain and shallow and utterly useless people in terms of anything practical.
I can't imagine being friends with these people.
This book worked for me primarily on the level that Fitzgerald managed to keep me hoping that they'd finally get their act together.
I really enjoyed this book - also, an excellent cautionary tale on how not to handle your personal finances.
"E questo mi ha insegnato che non si può avere niente, non si può avere assolutamente niente. Perché il desiderio inganna. È come un raggio di sole che guizza qua e là in una stanza. Si ferma e illumina un oggetto insignificante, e noi poveri sciocchi cerchiamo di afferrarlo: ma quando lo afferriamo il sole si sposta su qualcos'altro e la parte insignificante resta, ma lo splendore che l'ha resa desiderabile è scomparso.."
"The Beautiful and Damned" is the perfect title for this novel, as well as for the author's life with his wife Zelda.
Their apartments get smaller, their clothes less-trendy and more frayed, and the need for alcoholic oblivion even stronger.What is disturbing about "The Beautiful and Damned" is how loathsome Fitzgerald obviously finds this society, especially himself.At one point, Anthony is talking to Dick--an author of great success--and Dick talks of how vapid modern fiction is, and how everyone asks him whether he's read "This Side of Paradise." Dick decries how detestible the characters in "Paradise" are."This Side of Paradise," of course, was F.
I know I said I wouldn't bother writing a review for this piece of trash but I couldn't resist to compile some of Scottie's 'greatest hits' just to give context for my dislike of this novel.
A woman like that …'Gloria about herself (brace yourself since the internalized misogyny is real with that one):'I value my body because you [her husband Anthony] think it's beautiful.
(This is honestly one of my favorites like what kind of crack was Fitzgerald smoking?)Scottie also had a wilde sense of 'healthy' relationships:Then Anthony knew what he wanted – to assert his will against this cool and impervious girl, to obtain with one magnificent effort a mastery that seemed infinitely desirable.
Fitzgerald almost viciously pulls the rug out any time there's a slight chance of things getting better for Gloria and Anthony who, rather than confronting their flaws and getting their shit together, seem to alternate between wallowing and reveling in their self-destructive boredom and self-pity.
Unlike Richard and Ada, however, Gloria and Anthony aren't particularly deserving or likable, and that's probably one of the bigger flaws for many of this book's detractors.
For a lot of people it must be like watching a car crash which also happens to make you late for work...frustrating and a bit tragic.
I'll Be DamnedHow could the same F. Scott Fitzgerald who composed such a brilliant novel in The Great Gatsby have preceded it with such a lifeless moral tale?A bantam-cock and his haughty hussy, Anthony and Gloria Patch, squander their days for more than a decade of their lives anticipating an inheritance of a large part of the estate of Anthony's grandfather, a Rockefeller-type magnate, who excludes them from his Last Will and Testament because of their debauched style of living. It's just hard to be captivated by two despicable anti-heroes.The gritty sand before the pearl.
Una coppia del genere offre un impietoso ritratto di quella gioventù in perenne girotorndo intorno al vuoto che deve aver caratterizzato l'America 'da bere' , da cui la letteratura ha potuto trarre vari spunti.Tema centrale: la dissipazione, che è innanzitutto dissipazione di se stessi.Il primo sintomo che individui come loro sono in grado di percepire è la noia.
Cominciano ad avvertire che "lo stare a casa era noioso" ; "preferivano invece andarsi ad annoiare a una commedia musicale stupida o recarsi a cena con i conoscenti più insignificanti, purché ci fossero abbastanza coppie da impedire che la conversazione diventasse del tutto insopportabile".Dalla passione allo smarrimento di due personaggi senza spessore.
This was the very thing I wanted at that time.
But it gets interesting when Gloria enters into the picture.Two moments while reading this book, when I felt like hugging myself again and again -1.
And when reading this book I came to an answer -"A classic,' suggested Anthony, 'is a successful book that has survived the reaction of the next period or generation.
b) When God wishes to punish us, He answers our prayers.These two statements, I read in different places and different times but somehow I decided to combine them and make some sense out of it.
This book I also enjoyed.The Beautiful and the Damned starts like most of his short stories.
I'm also happily married, but that's a topic for another time.Most of Fitzgerald's short stories end with the boy finally catching the girl.
His insight into the human soul, his ability to lucidly display its depraved nature, its desperate longing for greater things and its inability to save itself both repels while it simultaneously draws the reader in.Anthony and Gloria get married.
I found absolutely nothing redeeming in either Anthony Patch or his wife, Gloria.
If we are meant at any point to feel sorry for them, it was a miss for me.
Gloria is a woman who depends 100% on her looks, her beauty, to carry her through life.
Anthony is a man who feels no need to accomplish anything in life because he believes he is going to inherit millions from his grandfather.
Gloria is too selfish to want children, Anthony is too self-centered to stoop to work.
I sat and watched, fixated, glued to the end, but not for a second thinking that either my views or theirs would change.
Just so you are warned - the book is a product of its own time.
It was published in 1922 and draws the era before and after the First World War. It has racist lines.
So what am I thinking as I complete the book?
I have read that the book is based on his life with Zelda.
The book certainly has something to say about work and life goals, but this message is so obvious there has to be more.
A thousand taxis would yawn at a thousand corners, and only to him was that kiss forever lost and done. In a thousand guises Thais would hail a cab and turn up her face for loving. And her pallor would be virginal and lovely, and her kiss chaste as the moon... Can anyone write as gorgeously as Fitzgerald about illusion and the ephemeral nature of beauty, loss of love and failure, toxic marriages and breakdowns? The first time I started this book, it didn't work for me. But it's been nagging at
Can anyone write as gorgeously as Fitzgerald about illusion and the ephemeral nature of beauty, loss of love and failure, toxic marriages and breakdowns?
This still feels young and a bit uneven in its craft: the 'play scenes' don't really work and feel somewhat awkward; the shifting emphases on Gloria and Anthony, especially the long stretch during which he's in the army, can make the storyline feel a bit ragged - but there are places where the mature Fitzgerald comes startlingly into focus: Gloria's flight to the station at night, her moments of transcendence, the slow breakdown at the end.
Anthony is young, lazy, handsome, and bored with the world.
When Richard introduces Anthony to his cousin Gloria, the world is suddenly a bit less boring.
Gloria is beautiful, with childish features and, like Anthony, bored easily.
The two marry and are at the height of their lives.But Anthony and Gloria are almost too much of alike to be compatible.
Other people might think differently.) He writes a tale almost frighteningly similar to his own sad life to come; a failing marriage, a secret affair, Anthony's addiction to alcohol, Gloria's growing mental unstability, etc.
I found this book fascinating and also really problematic.
So when his hero and heroine start to come apart, we understand that it's bigger than Anthony's alcoholism or Gloria's spending .
It's really interesting to note how Anthony's troubles presage Fitzgerald's own.
These are the best and most convincing parts of the book, too.
Actually, the degeneracy is a bit harrowing at times, but sometimes I enjoy a good harrowing.Fitzgerald really understands both privilege and failure, and so if you're interested in this combination, The Beautiful and Damned is an excellent exploration of the two.
I really enjoyed The Great Gatsby so I was looking forward to this, being especially lured in by the fabulous title. Sadly, this turned out to be the only good thing about the book as it turns out that reading about bored, boring people tooling about being bored is incredibly boring. So boring, in fact, that I've even bored myself writing this, so I won't bother with any more.
Reading this book caused me to not only fall into an extreme reading slump, it also was the book that got me back into the book blogging world.
There is an extreme rant review for this one over on my blog: https://marriedtobooksreviewsandblog....
Please note that my rant review does contain a couple of spoilers regarding the storyline.
I don't put spoiler reviews onto my Goodreads, hence why I won't be copying my review for The Beautiful and the Damned over.
If you are interested in reading the review, click on the above link!
Mi domando se, rileggendo le parti dedicate alle descrizioni di Gloria, non riscoprisse ogni volta tutto quello che amava e odiava di Zelda.Se dovessimo rispondere a questi quesiti basandoci sul flusso incalzante, perfetto, naturale della scrittura e sull'evidente e destabilizzante sfogo riversato in ogni pagina, allora dovremmo indubbiamente arrenderci al fatto che questo romanzo non è altro che l'auto-indagine turbolenta di un uomo perfettamente consapevole della propria fragilità.Nonostante questo, però, riesce ad essere squallidamente sincero: non c'è nulla che non dica, non c'è un solo dettaglio scabroso della pigra esistenza di Anthony e Gloria che lui ometta.
Fitzgerald left me gasping for breath, depressed at the end of the novel.
The demise of Gloria and Anthony Patch and their ill-fated relationship incredibly drawn out.
But the intricacies of each character is highly developed.
I thought I was actually friends with these characters.
I loved the dense descriptives, and the way he portrays Gloria's vanity: "Beauty is only to be admired, only to be loved -- to be harvested carefully and then flung at a chosen lover like a gift of roses.
It seems to me, so far as I can judge clearly at all, that my beauty should be used like that...
F. Scott Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby" is a novel Im sure everyone is familiar with from high school, and in my case was the only book I ever picked up from the author until I came across "The Beautiful and Damned".
"The Beautiful and the Damned" is no exception along these lines, but nonetheless remains a truly memorable work for it's universal morals on money, marriage, intimacy, and self-worth.Fitzgerald focuses his story on the frivolous and apathetic Anthony Patch, who happily enjoys his bachelorhood in Manhattan while awaiting the prospects of inheriting his grandfather's $30 million estate.

This novel is said to be a "fierce parable about...the ruin wrought by time." I like the phrase.
One could say that phrase encapsulates the singularness of Fitzgerald's novels."Anthony Patch with no record of achievement, without courage, without strength to be satisfied with truth when it was given him.
He was empty, it seemed, empty as an old bottle-"At age twenty-four, Fitzgerald was an acclaimed writer.
This is his second novel.Anthony, the main character in this novel, tries to make sense of life, love, money, and relationships.
There is heedfulness to surroundings, a main character who is curious, lonely, and perceptive.
It’s easy to dismiss this book as one of Fitzgerald’s lesser novels, but it’s actually a gem and I like it much more than The Great Gatsby. This follows the lives of two characters as they come together in a time filled with drinking and dancing, and fall apart when vanity and alcoholism take over in later years. The story is extremely descriptive written with meticulous attention to detail, and often moves between being manic; brilliant and exciting, to being depressive with illustrations of chaos and hatred.
(I can't say with authority that that's how Middlemarch ends because I didn't finish it, but that's what happened in the first 500 pages) So, logically, I should have hated this book as much as I hated Eliot's.
But I didn't, and I think I know why: Fitzgerald's characters are interesting, and their self-destruction is a lot more fascinating than the people at Middlemarch.
They inspired the same sensations in him as did those strange and monstrous fish who inhabit the esoteric world of green in the aquarium.""In 1913, when Anthony Patch was twenty-five, two years were already gone since irony, the Holy Ghost of this later day, had, theoretically at least, descended upon him.
I’ve always looked on criticism as a sort of envious tribute.– Gloria Patch The Dandy, Anthony Patch, falls in love with the most sought-out girl: the beautiful and aloof Gloria. They marry and become the it couple everyone wants to be with. Their nights are full of champagne and parties, and the days are spent in idleness, waiting for the next party to fill the void. Anthony’s inheritance is endangered because of their wildness. What now? They can’t imagine a life without luxury. Nor is Anthony
The Dandy, Anthony Patch, falls in love with the most sought-out girl: the beautiful and aloof Gloria.
Their nights are full of champagne and parties, and the days are spent in idleness, waiting for the next party to fill the void.
Nor is Anthony capable of holding on to a job.The Beautiful and Damned was an incredible reading experience.
In other words, Grow Up!I want to marry Anthony, because husbands are so often ‘husbands’ and I must marry a lover.The character Gloria amazed me.
I’ve been curious about her ever since reading the novel about Zelda Fitzgerald who was often compared to Gloria.
Фицджералд пише красиво и мъдро.
Той не се прокрадва в душата, а влиза с гръм и трясък.
Настанява се и край - ето ти любов завинаги.
Толкова беше вълнуващо да чета Красиви и прокълнати (повече ми харесва от Гетсби), че препрочитах по няколко пъти много страници, виждах героите му и мисля за тях.
Това прави Фицджералд - оживява всеки път като го четеш и ти обещава, че не си сам.
И ти дава надежда, че все пак някои хора са с красив ум и дълбока душа за толкова много хиляди други, които трябва да търпиш.
Огромно благодаря на Фицджералд.
Казвам му наздраве с цялата ми любов.
– se non fosse per la sensazione che, tutto sommato, questo abisso assomiglia più a una giusta punizione che a un accanimento del fato.
Adam e Gloria sembrano voler dirci che, poiché la vita non ha un senso, poiché cercare un senso è faticoso e non conduce a nulla, allora tanto vale auto-distruggersi, sprofondare nell’alcool, in feste di cui non si ricorda nulla, tradire l’amore che si porta per l’altro.
Tutto questo, voglio ripeterlo ancora una volta, non ha nulla a che fare con Fitzgerald.
Il problema – ed è questo uno dei tristi messaggi che Fitz sembra voler comunicarci – è che a volte l’amore non basta.
Fitzgerald projected himself into his novels as protagonist, probably more than any other author I have read.
In The Beautiful and Dammed, his second novel, we meet Anthony and Gloria, two of the most miserable and unhappy characters you've ever met.
Actually, they are very much like the characters in all of Fitzgerald's novels.
They are young, beautiful, rich on some level, and they have absolutely nothing to do except drink and party.
Sounds good to me, but in a Fitzgerald novel it always leads to destruction.
Of Fitzgerald's four major novels, this is my least favorite.
That's not to say I didn't like it, I did.
