https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89185.Chasm_City
One of those books that I massively enjoy having read, past tense, but ultimately didn’t enjoy while reading.
Banks’ Use of Weapons, except that it didn’t rely on a reveal in the same way, instead slowly telling the reader what is afoot.
I picked up on it around 1/3 of the way through, and was initially disappointed, thinking that it might be a shocking twist ending that was too obvious and heavy handed.
However, my initial assessment of the reality of the situation I thought I comprehended early on, was incomplete and less than half of the true picture.Ultimately, this novel is about redemption.
He works from a fairly hard-SF mindset, so most of the tech in Chasm City is pretty plausible, ranging from nanotech ‘medichines’ in people’s blood to gigantic sub-light ships that take decades to cross the expanses between stars.I loved this book.
Chasm City is, in my opinion, a near perfect work of SF, melding the brilliant ideas and faraway worlds SF does so well with a strong narrative and sharp prose style that the genre sometimes lacks.
“I’ve been sent here to kill someone who probably doesn’t deserve it, and my only justification for it is some absurd adherence to a code of honour no one here understands or even respects.” While reading the book I was a little bothered by the protagonist's motivation which did not make a lot of sense to me. Suddenly Alastair Reynolds addressed my problem directly and things begin to fall into place. This book is a very intricately plotted sf novel with strong element of a noir thriller, but
The main character Tanner Mirabel is chasing a man who killed his best friend and the love of his life but made the mistake of leaving him alive.
What it does to people I will leave you to discover for yourself.What makes Reynolds stand out from most other sf writers today is that he can spin a great yarn, he knows his science very well, and he cares about creating believable and interesting characters with real motivations.
There are quite a few scientists who are writing sf but (IMO) Reynolds is the best story teller and prose stylist among them.
Because like China, Alastair Reynolds is totally horny for the Big Idea (and perhaps even better than him at actually providing a sort of logical justification for all the weird and wacky world-building he does, though that simply might be a circumstance of his preferred genre -- hard sci-fi -- more or less demanding that kind of effort from an author.) (Also he is an ex-scientist of some sort.)So, yeah, Chasm City, which various blogs convinced me was a great place to start with the author, is full of ambitious sci-fi storytelling, some of it familiar, some of it fresh and fascinating, all of it fairly well "explained" with convincing-sounding science-y justifications, or at least as convincing as you can get when you are talking about nano-machine plagues that reshape and mutate entire space colonies.
A city where buildings were grown and designed by nano machinery.
A city where citizens could transform their bodies within days into human/animal blends or even upload their memories and lives into machines for safekeeping.
A virus that was a chimera of machinery and biology that melded implants and machines to flesh.
And nano machinery that made art of buildings was infected to transform the city into something grotesque and treelike.
Like the melding plague, it has grown a life of its own in my memory to insinuate an extra star in this review.
Instead, it is clumsy; events are either melodramatically telegraphed or arose seemingly out of no where.I give it TWO STARS for further delving into the Revelation Space world, and for being well-written at a sentence-by-sentence level, but needs much editing and plot-tightening to become a truly engaging novel.SPOILER RANT*Well, if the transformation is from sociopath with a Vision, to smaller-time weapons dealer who arguably killed more people and was even more sadistic to boot, to taking on another personality that is bent on a revenge killing...
How has this man changed to warrant his continued life and the final chapters describing him in terms of the redeemed anti-hero?!
Reasons not to listen to this audiobook while assembling cabinets:1.
You have to take the cabinet apart and reassemble it.
What's left is a city of great depravity where people who have lived for centuries do insane and/or immoral things just to feel alive for a moment.This has a very brief crossover with Revelation Space, which I actually read first.
I don't think I have a preference for which one I should have read first.
And possibly everything else the author has read.
While Chasm City is not any shorter at around 700 pages, it makes much better use of those pages with a fast-paced plot, complicated and dark but intriguing characters, and flashbacks that form a gripping story of their own.The main elements that distinguish Chasm City from many other space opera and cyberpunk offerings is its unique “gothic cyberpunk” feel.
As every other review notes, this book is part of the Revelation Space universe but stands alone; one does not need to read any of the other novels to enjoy it.I often spend most of a review discussing the main character and my reaction to them.
Gradually, Tanner’s memories click back into place—but it’s more complicated than that.Along with his own memories, Tanner begins having intense, realistic dreams that remember parts of the life of Sky Haussmann, the vilified founder of Sky’s Edge.
Infected, Tanner spends the entire book reliving parts of Sky’s life in chronological order.Chasm City is a long book.
…He loved her, loved her deeply; she was the most precious thing in his universe, the only one who knew what he was capable of and yet loved him anyway …The generational colony ship slid along its preset course to Journey's End, surrounded only by the absolute silence and darkness of deep interstellar space …There is a ghost ship following us …There is a ghost following us …It was a dark and stormy night …I am what is known as an unreliable narrator …History is written by the victors …-----------------------------------------------Several of my GR friends have read Chasm City and had mixed reactions ranging from "it sucks" to "it's just okay." Well they're wrong.
After I read the 3 Revelation Space books, this book sat on my shelf for 2 years because I feared that a Reynolds story being confined to a single city would feel claustrophobic.
To my delight, we quickly find out that we are going to be splitting time not only on Chasm City, but also on Sky's Edge, and on the generation ships sent to colonize this world orbiting 61 Cygni.
The answer is probably one of the coolest parts of this novel; the stunning action that was committed for that name to stick decades after colonization is at the very crux of why Sky Haussmann is in such desperate need for redemption.
Although you could summarise it as a long chase story of hunter and hunted, it is a complex and well-written page turner (and there are quite a lot of pages), the main theme of which is the nature of identity and the effects of various ways of changing it (e.g. body mods, memory implants, nanotech, DNA manipulation, immortality, reefersleep to travel through time and space).
There are three main stories, set in different times and places and it swaps between them without ever being confusing.
Sky grows up as crew on one of a flotilla of space ships sent to colonise a new world.
Ovaj roman sam počeo čitati još u devetom mjesecu prošle godine misleći da je nastavak Revelation Space trilogije pa ga stavio sa strane kad sam shvatio da nije.
Ipak, pošto se događa u istom svemiru, nastavio sam ga čitati usporedo s posljednjim romanom spomenute trilogije, ali onda sam oba ostavio na pola i čitao druge knjige.
Meni je to samozavaravanje samo dodatni plus u karakterizaciji lika.Reynolds je zanimljivo osmislio Revelation Space svijet, a vrijeme radnje ovog romana je prije osnovne trilogije i saznaje se detaljnije o pošasti Melding Plague i samom Chasm Cityju koji se tamo samo spominju.
En esta novela Reynolds sienta las bases del universo que crea de una manera más fácil de entender y mejor estructurada que en Espacio Revelación y te prepara para lo que viene después.En cuanto a la historia, es un libro con tantos giros y cambios de punto de vista que se necesita tiempo y tranquilidad para su lectura.
Pero lo mejor de todo es el sentido de la maravilla que tiene Alastair Reynolds, su forma de abarcar cientos de años en una misma historia y que todo cuadre.La única pega que le pondría es que el autor peca de acompañar y ayudar al lector hasta el mismísimo final cuando simplemente con esbozar por dónde iban los tiros serviría.
Lumea Orașului abisului este însă foarte bine dezvoltată și destul de coerentă, conținând detalii tehnice, dar și altele ce dau veridicitate (etnografie, mitologie, religie etc.).
Pline de clișee, aceste umbre sunt mânate de colo-colo, fără ca acțiunile lor să fie motivate în vreun fel din punct de vedere psihologic.
Carte este salvată însă de cele trei planuri narative foarte bine mânuite de autor - cel al acțiunii imediate, cel din vis și cel din flash-back-uri.
De aceea, aproape nu mai contează că spre final, personajul principal se dovedește neinteresant, cu prea multe personalități scoase din pălăria autorului, dar cu prea puțină coerență din punct de vedere psihologic.
The book Chasm City is the sequel to "REVELATION SPACE" and is a bit better than the first.
It's a great sci-fi book, maybe one of the best of this century.
This composition is kind of quirky, but it makes the whole picture very beautiful.2.
Although there are some moments i do not agree with, as a whole, from the point of view of natural sciences it is mostly realistic.
But strange thing, this book is more realistic from the point of view of logic, psychology, and social sciences.
Virgin jungles of Sky's Edge, small crews at large ships of flotilla drifting in a deep space, and urban ambient of this mesmerizingly nice megalopolis Chasm City.
For me, 4 and 5 star books are things that I would like to read again, they are books I loved, and books I would recommend to others.
This is definitely a book I'd recommend to someone that liked sci-fi, but it isn't going to make my favorites list or be something I'll read again.
There really isn't one likeable character in the entire book, and in parts it got too overly descriptive for me.
So 3.5 stars because I liked this book a lot, but I didn't love it.PS - I was up late reading this one and then had dreams about snakes.
It's something hidden, an underlay of expectations that successfully build so much momentum that the text screams like a runaway train and it doesn't matter how much inane and crazy plot-twists crop up, because you're just left holding on to the ride.Don't get me wrong, this novel wasn't particularly fast paced, but it did maintain a solid clip.
The only real issue I wanted to make was in the person he had originally began as, since there just wasn't enough presence or emotional immediacy, despite the whole reason for the multiple revenge scenarios.
“How long would you have to live; how much good would you need to do, to compensate for one act of pure evil you’d committed as a younger man?”  The darkest in the Revelation universe so far, even horrifying one, with a brilliant crescendo in events and terrifying characters. I changed my feelings about the main one several times during reading, from pure hatred to pity and sympathy and now that I finished it, I have no idea whether I hate him or not. “’Why would people want to experience somet
“How long would you have to live; how much good would you need to do, to compensate for one act of pure evil you’d committed as a younger man?” 
The darkest in the Revelation universe so far, even horrifying one, with a brilliant crescendo in events and terrifying characters.
Don’t expect too much action – it’s a one man quest into his mind, mostly.
I had my share of sci-fi so far, but I can’t find anyone else to rise to this level of writing.
I tried reading Reynolds as a teen and HATED it.
It left me cold and miserable.
Interesting characters (with ridiculous layers of hidden personalities and memories that only get triggered at certain times and and and).
Wonderful tech, and civilisations falling from the grace given them by their tech when the Melding Plague takes over everything above a certain complexity.Decent action scenes, with super hightech gorgeous lithe hunters and grimmey genetically modified pigs that will eat you.
Sky Houseman and the generations of crew taking care of sleeping human colonists on their way to our first extra-solar system colonisation.
It is an excellent sci-fi yarn with awesome ideas, it is a Memento-like who-the-fuck-is-who mystery, and at it's basest level it is an old fashioned revenge tale; and I loved every minute of it.
This is my second Reynolds book after the original Revelation Space novel and while I loved both books, this was easier to read and flowed more smoothly.
Nowadays this book would be split into two in order to make more money and all so I miss the days of these 800 page behemoths and not having to wait a year to finish a story originally meant for one book because of greedy publishers.
British science fiction master Alastair Reynolds has very quickly become one of my favorite authors and  Chasm City  is a big part of that. Although it is not formally in the Revelation Space trilogy of Revelation Space, Redemption Ark and Absolution Gap, it is set in the same universe as those other books, like  The Prefect  and his short story collection Galactic North.Specifically, Chasm City is located on the planet Yellowstone, which once featured the most advanced human civilization in Rey
and his short story collection Galactic North.Specifically, Chasm City is located on the planet Yellowstone, which once featured the most advanced human civilization in Reynolds' 
Tanner has been infected with a bizarre virus which causes the infected to bleed stigmatically from the palm and to dream obsessively about the life story of Sky Haussman and the sad, bizarre tale of how Sky's Edge was colonized.There are multiple other subplots, which are also well-written and fascinating.
There are parts of this story that I throughly enjoyed and would happily give four stars and then there are great rafts of it that I found dull and couldn't wait for the chapter to end.
This story is told in such a different way that it is hard to credit I had just finished reading the same writer.
Chasm City is told in three story arcs that curve to a convergence to give you a final understanding of wtf this is all about.
That is not in any way meant to be a glib statement - I think all of us who like to read can say that we have encountered many plot twists that are of a similar nature, many clever narrative modes which yet feel as if they pertain to a common class, many beautifully crafted and unique characters.And yet, In Chasm City, Alastair served up something truly new (at least for me) and managed to deliver a reading sensation I have never had before.
This guy has the perfect toolkit for writing science fiction: a background in astrophysics, an amazing imagination, a strong sense of character and a compelling plot with a deserving ending.
Though very dense and extremely satisfying, it does not have the overwhelming, epic scope that his Inhibitor trilogy does (this book takes place in the Inhibitor universe as a standalone piece, although reading it will provide a lot of helpful insight into the trilogy).
If you read science fiction, are a fan of space opera, and/or write in this genre, this book should be required reading.
Chasm City is a rare breed - a complex well-integrated multi-layered plot and a page turner with satisfying pace right up to the end. It is a book that makes you wonder in delight but at the same time envelopes you in tension and mystery. It will engage with your mind and leave you very satisfied at the end.
Almost a 5 star, great world building, great characters, somewhat of a psychological thriller on another planet.
Throughout the book I lamented the fact that the main character wasn't really acting the way his character was set up.
The only nit I had was that it was all fairly disconnected until the end, I struggled at times to keep all the threads together but what an awesome payoff.At this point I am a serious Reynolds fan boy so take any recommendations I have about his books with a grain of salt.
5 StarsChasm City is now one of my favorite Alistair Reynolds novels.
This standalone novel that is a pseudo prequel to the Revelation Space series is different from the rest.This is a classic Alistair Reynolds novel that is a bit lighter in the hard science genre.
He also has added in a decent and memorable support cast.Like all Reynolds books, this one is not short.
The action is intense, varied, and a serious blast...The genetics and the virus are standouts in this book and this universe.
Reynolds is one of my very favorite authors and I now have read what might be my favorite novel of his.
Ignore the cliched and slightly silly first chapter, and Keep with the storyFrom chapter 2 on, it's great. A Cook's tour of Chasm City and some very entertaining and interesting characters. A great back story, and several central mysteries.Would be 5-star but the ending was a bit ham-fisted.I just started #3 in the Revelation Space series, Redemption Ark and it starts off wonderfully!NOTE: Please, please also read Turquoise Days, a novella, and short stories Enloa, Weather, and Zima Blue. Surely his finest works, along with House of Suns.
