https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18526933-the-lake-district-murder

Sayers’ Lord Peter Wimsey; Patricia Wentworth’s Miss Silver; Anthony Berkeley’s Roger Sheringham; Margery Allingham’s Albert Campion; Josephine Tey’s Alan Grant; Ngaio Marsh’s Roderick Allen.Now I can add John Bude’s Inspector William Meredith to the list.I’m ashamed to say that I had never heard of Bude nor his dogged, insightful creation, but Inspector Meredith of the Cumberland County Constabulary comes up trumps in this tale of murder disguised as suicide.
Well it started well but felt so long and tedious by two thirds in that completing felt like torment! Over long, repetitive when little is actually revealed and an overly detailed police procedural. Sorry to say this as I do like my old crime classics and can normally forgive them the quirks that have changed over time.
More of a howdunnit than a whodunnit as Detective Inspector Meredith attempts to solve the murder of a small garage owner. There is far too much concentration on the minutiae of the investigation which slowed the progress of the book . It reminded me of the books of Freeman Wills Croft with the meticulous attention to detail as to how the crime was committed.
A nice bit of escapism by a Golden Age of British Detective writer now republished after 80 years .I bought it on the strength of the cover a 1930's Lake District travel poster and the fact that it was in Waterstones on a table marked " Dignified Detection " along with Dorothy Sayers and Agatha Christie .
Very dignified .
I have bought its companion " The Cornish Coast Murder "
A young man is found dead at the garage where he works, in a rural village in the Lake District.
Inspector Meredith investigates the apparent suicide, and uncovers a number of facts that don't seem to add up.
Methodically he begins to follow up every piece of evidence and every statement in order to reveal the truth.This classic mystery novel is not full of dramatic revelations or shocking twists.
It is more a revelation of how painstaking and professional police work can identify a killer.
However, I found it quite compelling, and enjoyed trying to follow Meredith's logic.
This is gentle read that seems very tame in comparison with today's crime novels with its violence and truly nefarious deeds.
But I read it for the setting - but time and place.
It was an enjoyable read for that very reason.
It was also a refreshing change to have next to nothing on the detective's personal life.
He had a wife who is barely mentioned more than 3 or 4 times.
But at least he didn't have the marriage problems that so many men in today's crime novels have- Jackson Brodie, Rebus, Wallander.I can't say anything more without spoilers.
Moving in a slow, heavy lumber, the pace of this book is weighed down by masses of detail which hold back any sense of anticipation or excitement as Inspector Meredith labours his way to the end.It's really 1.5. No more Lake District murders for me.
3.5 stars for this very engaging British mystery from the 1930s.Inspector Meredith is a delight.
The reader gets to follow along as he works his way through two related crimes.
We also meet Toby, said 17 year old, who is thrilled beyond belief when he has a chance to help in the investigations (of course).By the end of the book I was very happy: The Inspector was a fine fellow, the solutions to the murder and the connected fraud case were clever and logical.
Not a bad way to spend a few hours.I see that several more of the Inspector Meredith books have been reprinted.
This was a lovely book. Best way to describe is "very twee". Written in the 1930s I loved the language and the genteel nature, when the Superintendent says "by Jove opt think you are right" how can you resist? If you want gore and nail biting crime this is not the book for you, but sometimes it is good to read a book that is calming and enjoyable. Read for Pop Sugar Challenge - author with a pseudonym.
However, keen-eyed Inspector Meredith notes a few odd discrepancies, enough to request an autopsy that reveals the man was drugged and the suicide was a ruse to cover up a murder.The investigation reveals no obvious motive and the only person who would make a good suspect has a solid alibi.
However, the dead man left far too much money behind, so clearly something was up, but was it blackmail or some larger scheme or conspiracy?With dogged persistence, Meredith keeps investigating, finding small loose threads that he relentlessly tugs to unravel this complex mystery.Published in 1935, The Lake District Murder was Bude’s second book and featured Inspector Meredith who would be the primary detective in most of his mysteries for the rest of his career.
So very little goes on it was a struggle to get through.
But The Lake District Murder isn’t just ordinary; it’s bland.Meredith is an inspector.
There’s also a superintendent that gets involved in the case and a sergeant that Meredith usually works with.
If I ever visit the Lake District it will be because of the charming descriptions of it in one of my mysteries with a body in the library and a detective that invites all the suspects in the salon in the last chapter, not because of Inspector Meredith.
Unfortunately, I found this book too bogged down with uninteresting detail. A man is found dead at his petrol station and Meredith hunts down the clues to find his killer. This involves questions on the capacity of a petrol tanker, the workings of a pump and many other details I feel I could have lived without ever knowing. It all got rather boring.
There is no apparent motive for the suicide and when it is identified as murder none of the obvious suspects have motives or opportunities to carry out the crime.By painstakingly piecing together tiny scraps of evidence Meredith and his colleagues manage to work out how the crime was committed and who was responsible.
This is one of the best constructed police procedural crime stories I have ever read and I felt as though I was unravelling the clues along with the police.
Meredith himself is a pleasant individual - always polite to colleagues and the public alike.I liked the background to the story as it resists the temptation to provide a guidebook backdrop.
I bought this book on Kindle as I had enjoyed the Cornish Coast Murder, but this had a completely different feel.
I thought I would never get to the end, it felt as long as a real life investigation would feel.
Technically it was a good plot, so others would enjoy it, but I felt little involvement with the characters, good or bad.However, I think this is a novel crying out to be made for television.
The investigation takes the police officers to some very awkward places and there would be plenty of suspense, with the added chill that in 1935, if the murderer is caught, he is going to be hung.
I enjoyed this, even though the details of the fraudulent activity were perhaps a little too detailed.
Nice sense of place, and of course atmosphere of the 1930s, which is when it was originally written.
There is a map of the Lake District, and by some strange quirk, the place mentioned in the book I finished most recently (about the houses Margaret Forster lived in) is shown on it (she and her husband changed the name of their house, which annoyed the locals as it was a name with history, and apparently even mentioned on maps.
This is a brown paper parcel of a book. Matter-of-fact, bland of surface, plodding in execution - not unlike Inspector Meredith - and it gets the job done in a satisfactory manner. I can in no way explain why I found it soothing rather than sleep-inducing but there it is. A mid-30s paean to solid, cooperative police work and there's even a zipper, if you're patient enough to wait for it. Oh, the wonders of the modern age!
An enjoyable period mystery. This one follows the murder of a garage owner -- specifically, how a local policeman investigates a crime. Not a typical golden age mystery. There isn't a country house in the story and the characters are anything but upper class. Thoroughly enjoyable, procedural mystery.
Heavy going. The hero is police thoroughness, rather than any individual. A kind of CSI of its day. And the author leaves out nothing of the meticulous police investigation. About two-thirds of the way through, the following line appears: "He realised, with a pang of hopelessness, that he still had a long way to go." The reader is apt to empathise.
I am afraid I found this a little bit ponderous, too much detail delivered too slowly and repeated too often. Also highly detailed guesswork on the part of the police which turns out to be completely correct, stretches credibility to breaking point. Better editing could have corrected this.
Interesting period piece - but a bit long winded. Had to really push myself to finish it. Sometimes, not always, there are reasons why books go out of print...
Extremely tedious..except for a few period details.
The first of the Inspector Meredith series, ‘The Lake District Murder”, lays out the pattern of this genre of murder mysteries.
The Detective and of course, the reader, is usually aware of the identity of the murderer quite early in the book.
The plot develops as the Detective works out the motive behind the crime and the modus operandi, and eventually collects enough evidence to convict the guilty party/parties.
While the Inspector fails to uncover any reason for suicide, there appear to be no possible motives for murder.
At first glance, the death appears to be a suicide.
When some conflicting evidence starts to turn up, Inspector Meredith sets out to discover if there is more to the death than first meets the eye.This was a very interesting mystery.
Reading it almost felt like watching a tv show with the inspector following the clues.
Maybe that's why the feeling of watching something play out was so strong.) While he lacks the memorable personality of Poirot and Holmes, I'm still looking forward to reading more of Inspector Meredith's mysteries.
What a treat! My favourite part of the world, colliding with my favourite genre - what is not to like?Purchased on a whim, this novel was devoured in just two sittings on a family camping trip to...The Lake District! As my first introduction to the eminently likeable Inspector Meredith, this novel does not disappoint: great character development, and a plot that offers twists, turns and backtracking that would do many a lake district route proud; I was hooked. My first John Bude, but definitely not my last!
This started well with a mysterious murder in Keswick, the Lake District. Unfortunately, the narrative lost any excitement it had by descending into mind-numbing detail as Inspector Meredith investigated the case step by slow-step. Other readers may find something intriguing in this unnecessary level of detail, but I'm afraid I lost interest about halfway through the story. The author could easily have halved the page count and lost nothing of the story.
I enjoyed this book. It was a detailed police procedural and I found the story line to be quite good. Some may find this a slow read, but I found it kept me reading. If you like police procedurals then give it a try.
Worth reading if you've been to Keswick or Penrith...otherwise, not so much...
Holiday reading. A "prove-they-dunnit" rather than a who-dunnit. The fun is in watching the bits fall into place, the culprits are known from very early on.
