https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233712.The_PreHistory_of_The_Far_Side
I admit that I was waiting for this book to go on clearance before I pulled the trigger on it.
I waited for it for almost a year and it was worth the wait!The Far Side was a slice of life cartoon that showcased Gary Larson often twisted humor.
This book answers that question.
It's not so much a collection of strips so much so as it is Larson's thoughts and views on how the strips came about.
It has a lot of strips and he also included some rarities and as well as rejected strips.
Not only hilarious galleries, but a fantastic and very personal insight into the evolution of The Farside. This includes the banned comics, the failed ones, the successes too, along with Larson's earlier pieces prior to The Farside. For me, The Farside is one of the all-time great comics (along with Calvin & Hobbes).Larson's work is dry, witty and original. And this book is highly recommended for any lover of Larson, along with those interested in the creative mind of comic book artists.
This book is entertaining from the first page to the last.
A few pages on hilarious early attempts at cartooning, a few pages on misunderstood comics, a few pages on embarrassing mistakes, all of this mixed together with trivia about Gary Larson and his little one-panel world.
This book gets five stars simply for making me view comics in a different light, and helping me realize that there truly is an entire world within what I would normally pass up as an unimportant profession.
Gary Larson laughs at himself and everyone else as he explores all the smallest nooks and crannies of the strange, funny, and insightful world of the joke.
He gives us a look at a few that were deemed a little too, iffy for publication (the snake crawling through the playpen and unable to get between the bars due to the "swelling" in it's middle is very disturbing...no wonder it didn't make general publication).
There are also stories of misplaced captions, art that looked different to the "readers" than it did to Larson, and some editorial decisions that Larson believes changed the impact and even lost the point of some of his work.An enjoyable book...that may at times give you pause about the mind of the strip's creator.
When I was working in any of the many bookstores where I was employed and I did not want (or have the time) to read my current book, I would grab one of these collections to read on my too short break.
I slowly but surely worked my way through several series.
These are great time killers and will usually improve your mood no matter how hectic the day.
The Far Side is full of classics.
For the record *I* think "cow tools" was funny.Probably the funniest thing in the whole book is on page 127.
The accidental switching of captions between The Far Side and Dennis The Menace.exhibit a:Three snakes at a dinner table, the caption reads: "Lucky thing I learned to make peanut butter sandwiches or we woulda starved to death by now".exhibit b:Dennis and Joey, holding sandwiches and walking behind Alice, who is seated at table and trying to ignore her annoying son in favor of the telephone and a cup of tea; the caption reads:"Oh, brother!....
I have know of the far side for many years - and I must admit their own strange sense of humour matches mine often being the epitome of witty observation.
This book is a collection of his early works along with a narrative of his Gary Larsons early years and how he got in to illustrations and the current phenomena which is the "Far Side".
The books is both funny and informative - acting as a cross between humour and autobiography - great read and I will admit fascinating to see how some of his sketches evolved and changed and why they didnt stay as they were.
The Far Side, Calvin and Hobbes, and Bloom County were my three all time favorite comic strips. They probably still are. In this collection, Adams treats fans to early sketches, changes, and angry letters he's gotten over the years. He showcases fabulous mistakes that have been made (like the caption for Dennis the Menace being put under his cartoon instead- with hilarious results), and his favorite cartoons . . .which happen to be mine as well! A must for any Far Side fan!
One of the greatest absurdist cartoons ever, the Far Side ages extremely well! This collection from oh so long ago is precious archeological evidence of the brilliance of Gary Larson's addictive humor.
A stand-out collection, gathering cartoons from the first ten years. I love Larson's work so I'm biased, but this is very highly recommended!
Good times!!Love these comics.Always chuckling to myself when reading them.
I've owned this book for years, and I pull it out at least once a year and just sit back and laugh out loud.
Larson's humour is bizarre, demented, twisted and so hysterically funny.
He's a genius.This book is extra fabulous because of the additional information he has added, such as some comics that didn't make it to the newspapers and background information on some of his most famous, and infamous, comics.
This book is an absolute must-have for any Gary Larson fan, even if you already have most of his collection in other books.
Gary Larson always made me laugh, even though occasionally there was a eww at the end due to the creatures used in that days comic, never been a huge fan of bugs.
I wish he was still writing/drawing this comic.
The book shows his early comic called "Nature Way" and continues on to the more popular Far Side.
He shows some concept art for a few of the finished products so we can see how he gets to an end result he likes.
If you were a fan of the comic I suggest trying to find a copy of this anthology, it has some interesting insight into the mind of the artist.
A wonderful look into The Far Side, the history of Gary Larson, and his creative process. It often seems that Larson's The Far Side was a bit overshadowed by Watterson's Calvin and Hobbes. I consider both amazing comics, but Watterson was clearly the better artist, and tended to be a little more accessible, with consistent characters and philosophical ideas. Larson's comics tended to be a bit more off-the-wall, sometimes venturing into rather cryptic scientific jokes. Nevertheless, The Far Side is well-worth delving into, and this book explores more, beyond the comic itself, in Larson's typical goofy way.
A must for fans of Larson's idiosyncratic humour, and it contains cartoons he thought better of publishing - such as one featuring a snake with a suspiciously large lump who is slithering its way through a baby's crib - YIKES!
He also talks about his infamous 'Cow Tools' cartoon, which reminded me of what someone once said about comedy being like gossamer wings *or perhaps butterfly wings*: once you start to dissect it, it loses its humour.
In the case of 'Cow Tools," I didn't really have a problem with it until I was alerted to how many folks didn't 'get' it.
Gary Larson's humor is, in my book, unparalleled.
I miss him emensely, and wish he would make a comeback.
I could (and might) easily rate all of his compilations 5 stars - but I want to start with this one, probably because it has a bunch of little tidbits that are just fun things to know about Larson.
Many of the cartoons never hit the newspapers for one reason or another, so I'd never seen a lot of them.
He also provides commentary that I think is just priceless, on stuff there's no way you'd ever guess / know unless you got this book.
While 100 pages of this book are simply reprints of (albeit extremely funny) cartoons also contained in the famous Far Side Gallery books, the 180 other pages are the interesting part. Here Gary Larson shows us several shades of how his mind works, including very early unpublished works, rejected cartoons and sketches of unfinished cartoons, as well as misprints and reader feedback – all accompanied by charismatic explanations and annotations.Quite simply: indispensable.
Lots of comics in this book, but some text too, written by Larson to explain, if he can, some of the craziness you see every time you read his comics. A little insight can go a long way, and this book really helps to enhance the comics he makes. We can all thank Larson's older brother, it would seem, who slapped him in the face with a jellyfish when they were children, and birthed a desire to draw weird comics about a world where things like that aren't unusual.
I started reading Far Side comics when I was still in grade school, even though I really had no idea what half of them meant (a problem that still persists for a select few panels). It was formative to my sense of humour (for better or worse), and I still get a kick out of it. Second only to Calvin and Hobbes.
I've always wanted to know the story behind The Far Side, the process behind Larson creating specific panels. And now I do. Yay!
The collection of his childhood drawings were a rare inside look to Mr.Larson's past, and very cute. The commentary was funny, especially about his bad reviews.
I love me some Far Side, it's my favorite single-frame comic. Well, XKCD ties with it now.
So totally jokes.
I was worried when I found this in the Little Free LibraryThe Pre-History of the Far Side by Gary LarsonSo I was both excited and scared when I saw this in the Little Free Library.
Whew!So this book IS a kind of collection but more than that it’s the story of the Far Side, such as it is, with a lot of Gary Larson’s commentary.The background story is not that exciting and most of the sketches are not as good as the final products.
Finished this roughly around 330-430am. Sometimes having insomnia is nice (for reading/getting things done). This was a fun overview of The Far Side, and was interesting to see early pre-Far Side cartoons, sketches, rejected cartoons, and other tidbits throughout the first 10years of The Far Side's 'life'. Fun, entertaining, and good for a fair number of laughs.
Who doesn't love the far side? Dummies that's who
Never fails to tickle my humerus. I go back again and again.
very funny and i enjoyed it a lot
A back to back read about process. Laugh out loud stories.
THE BEST Gary Larson. Ever. Period.
