https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69625.Early_Autumn
Like the others, it deals with America's shifting values, and how a macho but moral hero—our Spenser—must make ambiguous ethical choices in order to preserve and foster what little good he can.Patty Giacomin hires Spenser to find her teenage son, who has been abducted by his father Mel. Son Paul is little more than a pawn in this separated couples' soon-to-be vicious divorce, but when Spenser tries to talk with Paul he finds the situation is even worse.
Not the least of the ironies is the fact that, when Spenser's “school” has been successful, and Paul has developed preferences and desires, he chooses a distinctly non-macho passion—one to which Spenser is indifferent and which his father Mel positively hates.A thoroughly enjoyable entertainment that gives the reader a lot to think about too.
When Spenser sees what a callow slacker Paul is and decides to mentor the kid, the book starts firing on all cylinders.Paul's parents are both human garbage and deserving of kicks to the crotch.
Susan Silverman was more tolerable than usual but I found her jealousy and bitchiness toward Spenser spending time with Paul kind of juvenile.The book shows its age a little but not enough to cost it any stars.
Also, Paul would be on the internet or playing video games all the time if it were written today.This Parker guy might have a future in the book business.
Private Investigator Spenser gets caught in the middle of a tug-o-war between two parents and their child. Both want the kid, but for selfish reasons. The only one looking out for the boy is Spenser. This was a really good read. All of Parker's Spencer books that I've read so far have been decent, but Early Autumn is a notch higher in quality than most. There's heart in this one. Specifically I mean Spenser's heart. Parker did a great job setting the stage for Spenser to show some real compassion.
He isn’t abused, but since both of the parents are pieces of shit, Paul has been ignored and never taught about much of anything.
(This was written in 1981 so if it’d been published recently, I’m sure Paul would have spent all day on X-Box Live.)Spenser gets stuck in the middle of Patty and Mel’s game of keep-away with their kid, and ends up doing extended baby-sitter duty.
Just as Paul is starting to learn some things and get some confidence, Patty and Mel declare a cease fire and want the boy returned.
Like Ronnie "The Hawk" Hawkins might growl it out: "I put a spell on you."At his best (not all the books), I love Spenser, the wisecracking gumshoe whose heart beats pure and who will find a way to do right by the end.
The development of their relationship, the ways Spenser moves from wiseguy to wise man, and Paul's entirely believable growth are rendered with surpassing delicacy, subtlety, and richness of feeling.
Parker rides the high wire of earned, piercing emotion without sentimentality as only the best can do.Sometimes, when I want to feel again a certain way I reread the ending.
Loved this book but for different reasons than many of the other Spenser novels. As much as i enjoy a badass team up between Spenser and Hawk, i enjoyed it more for the relationship between Spenser and Paul. He forms a father/son relationship with the kid. He transforms a skinny prick of a kid into someone worthwhile and half the fun is the journey.
This is, I think, the best of the Spenser mysteries.
It presents the hero as a more fully rounded character with interests and talents outside the rote solving of crimes.
His interaction with the boy who has been damaged by the actions of his divorced parents reveals not only the human behind the wise-cracking facade but important hints as to the past of Spenser himself.
Susan is also shown to have both flaws and virtues here.
I believe this was the point at which Parker committed himself to writing as close as he could get to literature and moved beyond the formulaic mystery novel.
I really was wonder how the initial setup of this novel was going to bear out as a full story. Not only did it, but definitely one of my favs of his so far.
Spenser is hired to keep Paul Giacomin safe from his father as he is a pawn between warring parents. This is a much more sedate, mature and reflective novel where we learn more about Spenser's motivations and values as he struggles to do right by Paul. I'm not sure that this would be a good introduction to the series for new readers as it's not typical of most of the series but it is an interesting addition for readers familiar with it. I thoroughly enjoyed the change of pace.
I haven't really been a fan of this author. I read his books when I need to do it for a book challenge, but I don't seek them out. I often wondered why there was such a huge following for this author. According to the reviews, a lot of people love him. While reading this book, I think for the first time, I could see why that is so. I liked the one liners and the short sentence structure. I also liked Spenser. He is definitely a character you can stand behind. I loved that part. So 4 stars.
Spensertakes Paul to the Maine wood to build a cabin for afriend, which is really a crash course in survival.What I really most liked about the book were the manypractical words of wisdom:--It'll be good to work with your hands.--You need some structure in your life, some scheduling, to giveyou a sense of order.--A way of living better is to make decisions you need to makebased on what you can control.
I'm going to have you know how to build and cook and work hard and to push yourself and control yourself.
It reveals a lot about Spenser and his code by watching him save a kid (Paul Giacomin) from his indifferent parents.
At the same time, Spenser, aided by Hawk, finds ways to blackmail the parents into becoming parental, and he blunts some efforts to retrieve the boy by the father's thugs.
It is a very nice piece of writing.Because it's an early book in the series, Spenser reveals a lot about himself through conversation with Susan (not yet as irritating as they would become later) and through action.
90)." I miss the early Spenser books a lot.
My second Spenser series book and I liked it a bit more than the previous, but still found of somewhat lacking.
Oh, it's entertaining in a general sense, and Spenser's wise-cracking ways are perhaps his best feature.
But I grew weary of the repeated and overly detailed descriptions of what people were wearing as Spenser encountered them.
Was this a fashion review or a mystery novel?
I also thought the plot was a bit stretched.
Endearing but not what I was looking for when I selected this novel.
What can you say about Robert B Parkers books that haven't already been said?
- this is about 2 parents, who cannot stand each other, and basically is using their 15 year old son as a 'pawn' ....
This book starts out where the father hires thugs to kidnap his son, then the mother hires Spenser to get the boy back.
But, Spenser soon realizes that while these two 'so called parents' are trying to get back at each other , their son is the one who is being torn apart- in more ways than one.
He doesn't like either of his parents, and after getting better acquainted with their lifestyles, neither does Spenser.
We see an admirable side of Spenser as a mentor in his tenacity with teaching this young man how to survive life on his own, not relying on his parents, or anyone but himself.
His lady friend Susan Silverman doesn't like the chunk of time Spenser devotes to this challenge, but eventually gets on board with it.
I liked this well enough, was impressed with Spenser's attitudes about life and as I said before, his tenacity and skills, but my hubby seems a bit bored by it.
This was a little of a slow starter, but ended up my favorite of the Spenser novels so far.
Spenser then comes to dislike both parents and discover that neither actually wants the kid and that they're just using the kid to hurt each other.
He seizes an opportunity to take the kid with him nominally to protect him, but more to try to quickly bring up the rather pathetic teen and make him a functional person.This process is what I really liked in the novel.
It was getting to see Spenser as parent and, more explicitly than normal, a teacher.
It's still a Spenser novel.
My first Spencer book, and I kinda liked it.
I found my self laughing in the places I should have, and there were quite a few of those - quite humorous.
The mystery, well, it wasn't much.
The side story, about Spencer taking a fatherly interest in a teen boy that needed help, that was quite well done.
I read there are more books with the teen as a character, and I'd be interested in how Parker plays it.
At the least this was a nice intro to a new character.
If I recall, I chose this book based on a Father's Day list of good father books.
So far this is my favorite Spenser book, yet. Since I used to love the show, I still hear Robert Urich's voice narrating Robert Parker's books. To me, that is always a bonus. I really like how Spenser cared enough to take the time to help the boy out above and beyond the call of duty. He put in a real effort to help Paul improve his life. It may sound sappy, but it touched me. :)
Spenser easily locates Paul and brings him back but quickly discovers the boy is not wanted by either of his parents.
During his time with Spenser he has become a better, more independent young man who has developed some life skills and has experienced a caring supportive relationship.
Although this installment in the series produces little in the way of a case for a private investigator, it does add more to the reader’s understanding of Spenser’s philosophy, code of conduct and the way he understands his life, his relationships and the world at large.
Spenser is in the midst of a nasty divorce and custody case. He takes a paternal role in this one, and not much mystery to this installment.I usually like Robert B. Parker, but I found this novel a bit lacking and boring.
It is such a SHAME that when people divorce they USE their children as pawns against each other. This couple have a 15 year old (he kept saying, "I'm almost 16."). He had no autonomous. Meaning, his parents were too busy with their lives to be concerned with his life. All he knew was TV and video games. SHAME. So, Spenser offers to teach him. Do you know how Susan acted to that?
Not really a detective story, but it’s touching, a gentle and kind tough guy story.
Attached is my review...https://johngrecoauthor.com/2018/04/1...
Spenser found a way to extricate Paul from his dead end life and put him on the path to becoming an actual person.The way that Parker embroidered that basic premise was one of the keys to Early Autumn’s narrative strength.
The set-up also provided an opportunity to show Spenser engaged in the actual process of detection, as he lined up the leverage necessary to secure Paul’s future.Early Autumn was one of the more character-driven Spenser books.
Early Autumn captured Boston at the dawn of a strong urban renewal push that would revitalize many neglected neighborhoods.
The way to do this, according to Spenser, is to pressure the kid into developing some strengths of his own, some belief in himself.
Hawk's in the book too, being enigmatic in his manfriendship with Spenser as usual.
There's a long conversation between Spenser and the kid, about why the kid's parents are the way they are.
This is a hard-boiled main character, after all, and the kid's father is trying to act like he thinks a gangster is supposed to.
Plus Spenser does have his special way of getting into people's faces.And this is kind of a long review for a book that's only 221 pages long.
Spenser becomes a pseudo dad for a 15 year old boy, Paul Giacomin, who is caught in an ugly custody battle.
At first Spenser is hired by the boy's mother Patty to get the boy back from her ex-husband, Mel. Turns out Mel didn't really want him.
Spenser gets Paul lifting weights and running (and drinking beer) and thinking through what he wants to do with his life.
Turns out Paul wants to be a ballet dancer.
(And is it even possible to become a ballet dancer when you start at age 15?) Spenser then cuts a deal with the father to pay for private education and boarding school.
Parker to me is the Tony Scott (R.I.P.) to Raymond Chandler's Ridley Scott.
It tries its hardest to blend a rather warm story about a kid trying to get a start in life with the typical Parker detective mystery.
On the other hand, the mystery/thriller element is cleaved in two and never really goes beyond a couple of basic clues and a very plain and unimaginative final confrontation.But I won't lie, I enjoyed it nonetheless.
Even when he does not get it quite right, Parker gives a standard of wit and punch that most other authors can't manage.
Spenser gets involved in the life of Paul, a 15 year old boy, who is unwanted by either divorced parent.
Oh, they pretend they want Paul but only so the other can't have him.
Now Spenser does some great things for Paul but giving a 15 year old liquor every other chapter is a tad irresponsible.
Especially when Paul isn't Spenser's kid.Besides the fighting amongst Paul's parents for possession of Paul, this really isn't your typical murder/kidnap Spenser novel.
If you want some mystery and action move on to the next Spenser novel.
4  stars. One of my favorites in the series - partly because this has a neat relationship developing and changing. A teenage boy is neglected and mistreated by his parents. (They don’t deserve to have a kid.) I loved Spenser’s relationship with the boy and the changes that happened. I enjoyed the way Spenser got the parents to do something. And there is a neat ending.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #7 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser. Unabrid
4 ½ stars.
One of my favorites in the series - partly because this has a neat relationship developing and changing.
A teenage boy is neglected and mistreated by his parents.
(They don’t deserve to have a kid.) I loved Spenser’s relationship with the boy and the changes that happened.
I enjoyed the way Spenser got the parents to do something.
And there is a neat ending.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #7 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: strong including religious swear words, but rarely used.
Sexual language: none.
Book copyright: 1981.
This "Spenser" story, book seven, is one of the best so far. They are all good. I just love the way the author Robert B. Parker embeds moral philosophy into the story. Similar to the moral philosophy embedded in Alexander McCall Smith's Isabel Dalhousie series, The Sunday Philosophy Club, the Spenser stories are full of wisdom and insights into right-and-wrong. I love both series.
