https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36626748-the-last-time-i-lied
BREAKING NEWS!: The Last Time I Lied has been picked up by Amazon Studios to be developed into a series. https://www.amazonbookreview.com/post... Two truths and a lie:1. This book rocked. 2. Riley Sager is a thriller writing phenom. 3. I hate reading. Pretty sure you’ve got me figured out. Disclaimer : I get really really ridiculously excited about good thrillers now and tend to use an excess of exclamation points, so this is just a preemptive “please excuse my flabbergabbling.”This is a true th
: I get really really ridiculously excited about good thrillers now and tend to use an excess of exclamation points, so this is just a preemptive “please excuse my flabbergabbling.”This is a true thriller in the sense of the word - it’s thrilling with understated suspense and it will creep you out in the best way possible.
I loved how every flashback chapter was an answer to the question the previous chapter put forward.
You had all the pieces but no answers and had to figure it all out with the main character.
Riley Sager, shoot me an email so we can discuss!4.5 super creepy stars!Thank you to Dutton Books for my review copy!
It is a spanking good, cracker jack of a novel that I could not stop reading for two days.THE LAST TIME I LIED is a brilliant and campy (pun intended) mystery for all you grown up fans of Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys.It will be the 2018 summer-beach-novel-must-read!
If you liked FINAL GIRLS, you will love THE LAST TIME I LIED.
It’s a completely different story from FINAL GIRLS, but the same brilliant author supervising the fun.Many thanks to Dutton Publishers and Edelweiss for giving me the opportunity to read and review this book.
His stories are darkly compulsive, and I've come to find that his growth in the psychological thriller field is enormous between his first book (good) and his second one (great).
Camp Nightingale.I would say the format of storytelling is similar to Final Girls, and both books are dark psychological thrillers, but the similarities end there.
What looks like a straightforward investigation into the disappearance of Emma's three friends from the past turns into a hella good suspenseful romp into so many different directions that I had to re-read one of the reveal sections FOUR TIMES before I could move forward because- Sager fooled me!
🚣🏻♀   5 Stars for Riley Sager’s campy summer mystery - The Last Time I Lied  🏕I was uneasy the entire time I read this book. Part of that was my own excited expectations/anticipation of the book but the other part was Sager’s writing.  He knows how to create an elusive mood that leaves you full of dread, yet wanting more.  You’re reading, turning page after page, just waiting for “that something” to happen. You know it’s coming. You’re creeped out and suspicious of everyone. You can’t put the bo
🚣🏻‍♀️   5 Stars for Riley Sager’s campy summer mystery - The Last Time I Lied   🏕I was uneasy the entire time I read this book.
You’re reading, turning page after page, just waiting for “that something” to happen.
That’s my reading experience with this book in a nutshell and I loved every minute of it.
It all began at Camp Nightingale 15 years prior when three girls disappear from Dogwood cabin.
Emma is unable to come to terms with the terrible tragedy because they never fully learned what happened to the girls that fateful summer night.
His other book, "Final Girls" read like an 80's horror film to me (which I loved!) and while reading The Last Time I Lied, I felt as if I was at Camp Crystal Lake....oops...I meant at Camp Nightingale.
Is there any truth to these rumors or are the girls just trying to scare each other?When Emma was thirteen years old her parents sent her to "camp rich bitch" a.k.a. Camp Nightingale.
Emma is back in the cabin she shared with the missing girls fifteen years ago.
“Sometimes a lie is more than just a lie. Sometimes it’s the only way to win.” Picture this: Sleepaway camp. 4 girls share a cabin until the day 3 disappear never to be found. One 13-year-old girl is left to tell their story. But her stories are built around lies.15 years later, the same girl returns to the camp to teach art and assist the owner’s new charitable endeavor. She is assigned to the same cabin that the girls disappeared from. Once again, 3 girls go missing. Something is amiss at Cam
4 girls share a cabin until the day 3 disappear never to be found.
One 13-year-old girl is left to tell their story.
But her stories are built around lies.15 years later, the same girl returns to the camp to teach art and assist the owner’s new charitable endeavor.
She is assigned to the same cabin that the girls disappeared from.
Something is amiss at Camp Nightingale.The Last Time I Lied is a tension-packed, atmospheric thriller!
While this element would normally have taken me out of a book, in this instance, it had me smiling (in a good way)!
I honestly can’t tell you.CW: violence, drowning, peeping toms, cancer, schizophreniformWhile I enjoyed Riley Sager’s previous work, Final Girls, I had some issues with the writing.
This is particularly disappointing as a large part of the plot progression and why Emma is considered a non-credible witness and an unreliable narrator by readers is due to the reveal of her mental health issues as a teen.
~Everyone lies so we can’t trust any of the characters.~ It’s like the author thinks readers aren’t capable of figuring that out themselves.
Riley Sager somehow surpasses the amazing hype surrounding his first novel, Final Girls, with an absolutely compulsively-good psychological thriller full or secrets, lies, and shocking truths that you won’t be able to put down!
You will find your own path through the mysterious web of truth and lies, and I think this one will keep you guessing!!About the BookEmma Davis was 13 years old when she first attended Camp Nightingale—a summer sleepaway camp for the upper-class girls of the northeastern states.
But as Vivian says, lying is how you win the game.One of my absolute favorite things about this book was the mysterious setting of Camp Nightingale.
😝 I absolutely LOVED this book!THE LAST TIME I LIED by RILEY SAGER was an absolutely fantastic, compulsive, thrilling, and tension filled psychological thriller that had me totally engaged and racing through those pages as fast as I could to see how this story was going to end.
I absolutely love his writing style and the way that he set the mood was pretty much perfect for a creepy and thrilling reading experience for me.
The creepy woods, cabin, and the eerie lake with the camp setting was so good.
I’m not going to lie - I absolutely loved this book!
it was just that fabulous!Two truths and a lie...1 I never gush over books!2 this was the best book I’ve read so far this year!!!3 Riley Sager is being added to my list of authors who I will autobuy/request.I’m sure you figured it out...
this is going to sound odd but I felt as though I was in a forest of browns and greens every time I pick this book up....
If you liked “Final Girls you will love “The Last Time I Lied” and that is no lie!*** many thanks to Penguin Dutton for my copy of this book ***
Emma can only paint one thing: Camp Nightingale and the 3 girls forever vanishing into the woods.
When former Camp Nightingale owner Francesca Harris-White (Franny) approaches and purchases one of Emma’s paintings and asks to have lunch, Emma can’t help her weary curiosity.
Fifteen years after the closing of Camp Nightingale, Franny wishes to reopen its doors with a new mission to allow girls in based on merit instead of wealth and she wants Emma to be a painting instructor.
In the end there are ultimately two back-to-back bombshells that are dropped on the reader fairly close together.
Luckily, her pretty and popular bunkmate, Vivian, quickly took Emma under her wing and she began to have a camp experience unlike anything the other girls her age were experiencing.
For me, Sager's writing is so cinematic - as I am reading, the entire drama is unfolding in my mind with the perfect clarity of a movie - I felt the same way with Final Girls.
As the story unfolds, there are multiple occasions where you think you know what happened all those years ago, but those thoughts are quickly dashed away by new information becoming available.
Fifteen years later the camp reopens and Emma returns as a painting instructor and finds an opportunity to try to find out what really happened to her friends, that has haunted her.
Emma is assigned to the same cabin she slept in as a teenager.
The closer she gets to the truth about Camp Nightingale, the more she realizes it may come at a deadly price.This book was a big surprise.
Now I want to read Final Girls.
This book goes back and forth from the past and present.
It goes back 15 years ago, when Emma was a teenager to the present.
Have you ever played Two Truths and A Lie? It is a game the girls at Camp Nightingale played in their cabin. Emma Davis was the youngest girl in the cabin and a first time camper. Her three bunk mates sneak out one night leaving her alone. Something goes wrong and they never return. Who knew summer camp could be such a dangerous place. This scenario brought back summer camp memories of sleeping in bunk beds and sitting around campfires telling ghost stories. Fun, right? Well, maybe not at this
It is a game the girls at Camp Nightingale played in their cabin.
Emma Davis was the youngest girl in the cabin and a first time camper.
Who knew summer camp could be such a dangerous place.
This scenario brought back summer camp memories of sleeping in bunk beds and sitting around campfires telling ghost stories.
Well, maybe not at this camp.
The woods and algae laden lake were a perfect setting for this twisty thriller.Fast forward fifteen years, and Emma is still haunted by her memories.
This thriller will have your imagination soaring and produce some anxiety as some 
“So much water. So much land. So many places to disappear.”  The Last Time I Lied was such a fun book to read during this spooky season. It really kept me on the edge of my seat, it was so thrilling, it was so chillingly atmospheric, and that ending was really unpredictable. I’m so happy I picked this book up this October! Also, to everyone who participated with us in #FridayFrightAThon, thank you so much! It was such an honor to read alongside so many of you! And hopefully this last book help
The Last Time I Lied was such a fun book to read during this spooky season.
This is a story about a twenty-eight-year-old woman named Emma, who is still haunted by something that happened fifteen-years ago at summer camp.
Fifteen-years ago, Emma went to summer camp late and was forced to bunk with three older girls in a cabin.
I loved going along with Emma and solving the present-day mystery and the mystery of the past at the same time.
I also don’t like how there is no author picture and the author note and acknowledgements makes an effort to not have the reader know this story is written by a man.
Creepy good, Creepy spooky, Creepy wow!Norma and I were lost in a coulee reading The Last time I Lied with eight of our Traveling Sisters.
We all ended up in the same coulee wiping the sweat off our foreheads after that fast-paced story left us sprinting right to that shocking good ending.
The Last Time I Lied had all the elements to make this a spooky, creepy good read.
Riley Sager does a good job layering those secrets and lies and creating those twists and turns at just the right time.
In the end, the story skillfully comes together leaving us sharing our excitement over this one with each other.
His previous book, Final Girls, was also an excellent thriller and I recommend you read it if you haven’t done so yet.On this novel, we follow Emma Davis who fifteen years earlier had attended Camp Nightingale as a teenager and shared a cabin with other three girls who disappeared and were never found.
Emma decides to go back and find out what happened to her friends fifteen years ago.This novel was excellent, it has elements of mystery, thriller, and well-developed characters.
I absolutely LOVED it and recommend it to readers of contemporary fiction, thrillers, and mysteries.I received and ARC from the publisher via Edelweiss Plus* I read this book with the Traveling Sisters.

I've poured myself a fat glass of Cabernet just to get over the chilliest of chills upon finishing The Last Time I Lied."You're too young for this, Em."Emma Davis stayed at Camp Nightingale 15 summers ago, when three of her friends disappeared without a trace.
I think that's why The Last Time I Lied was such a slam-dunk: it gripped in every possible way and did not let go.
Sager does a spectacular job of ensuring that you don't just want to see how it ends; you'll have a fulfilling experience the whole way there.Plot-wise, this might be the most surprised I've ever been upon finishing a suspense novel.
Three girls vanished from a summer camp (for rich kids I might add) and no one was able to find out what happened to them.
Emma was only 13 at the time but she befriended this older girls (they were 16) and she couldn't believe her friends were gone.
This book isn't short but it read so fast and that is something that attracts me to a thriller.The book brought up two questions for me: Is revenge worth it?
It can ultimately hurt AND save the ones you love most but sometimes that happens at the same time...If you're a thriller lover - pick this one up.
The Last Time I Lied by Riley Sager is set in a location that will remind readers of tons of campy horror movies, a summer camp for young teens, Camp Nightingale.
Don't go back there!!"You see Emma Davis had attended Camp Nightingale fifteen years before and the unthinkable happened during her summer at camp, her three bunk mates disappeared never to be found again.
At first Emma is hesitant to return but when she thinks about it this will be the perfect opportunity for her to look into the disappearance of her friends all those years ago and get some closure on what had happened.What a thrilling ride this one was!
2.25 Stars* (rounded down)“The Last Time I Lied” is a “campy” mystery/suspense surrounding Emma Davis, who at Thirteen went to Camp Nightingale and lived through a nightmare: all of her friends went missing one night and she was the lone survivor.
Several former campers, now instructors are also set to return, including the one Emma accused of murdering her friends.
This was a buddy read with Kaceey - thanks for keeping me company on this one Kaceey!Thank you to Edelweiss, Penguin Publishing Group and Riley Sager for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
I read his previous book, Final Girls, and I enjoyed that one too.
Fifteen years ago, Emma attended The Nightingale, a camp for young girls.
Franny owned the camp/land and it has been in the family for many years.
Emma loved Nightingale camp.
The girls were a bit older than Emma but they took her under their wing and showed her around.
Emma still thinks about Vivian, Natalie and Alison after all this time.
Emma hasn’t seen her in fifteen years and after what happened at the camp she isn’t sure Franny will be happy to see her.
4.5 stars  I am a real novice  when it comes to psychological thrillers, as it is not my usual genre of choice. But, all the 5 star reviews totally piqued my interest and needed to see for myself what all the hub-bub is about.In a very concise nutshell, three teenage girls vanished from a summer camp fifteen years ago. Their bunk mate, Emma Davis, reported them missing. Still obsessed over their disappearance and plagued with guilt, Emma returns to the scene of the crime. She is on a mission to
when it comes to psychological thrillers, as it is not my usual genre of choice.
But, all the 5 star reviews totally piqued my interest and needed to see for myself what all the hub-bub is about.In a very concise nutshell, three teenage girls vanished from a summer camp fifteen years ago.
Still obsessed over their disappearance and plagued with guilt, Emma returns to the scene of the crime.
I was given no choice but to be pulled deeper and deeper into the haunting past.The terrific twists and turns kept me on the edge and wondering if they were truths or lies.Yeppers!!
While I liked the author's previous book, Final Girls, I can admit it did have some flaws preventing it from being that perfect read.
A summer camp setting always creeps me out in books and movies, and I mean that in a good way.
All in all, I had a really fun time reading this book!I recommend this book especially if you liked Final Girls as I think this one is even better.
A good summer read!Thank you to First to Read for the opportunity to read an advance digital copy!
For many teenagers spending time at summer camp is an idyllic and memorable time - making new friends, escaping from their parents, having adventures, and trying on different personas.But for four teenagers at Camp Nightingale, camp is a devastating and tragic experience.
But the truth of what really happened that summer is elusive and her memories of that time are confused by the things her cabin mates told her.
Emma doesn’t know who and what she can believe in an environment where the favorite game in her cabin was two truths and a lie.
After the great The Final Girls, Riley Sager returns with this horror fest of a psychological thriller with the re-occurring themes of the damaged, guilt ridden, and haunted woman, the sole survivor of a shattering set of events where 3 girls on a rich girls summer camp disappear from their Dogwood cabin to never be heard of again.
13 year old Emma Davis is a newbie camper, placed with older teen girls, Vivian, Natalie, and Allison, getting close to them, especially Vivian who looks out for her, playing games such as Two Truths and a Lie. One night, the older girls leave their cabin with Emma deemed to be too young to join them so left behind.
“There are things we don’t want to happen but we have to accept, things we don’t want to learn, and people we don’t want to live without but have to let go.”Riley Sager's new book, The Last Time Lied, takes this quote to heart.In this suspense filled thriller, Sager spins a tale of three girls from one tent who disappear one night at a summer sleep away camp fifteen years ago.
Will Emma learn the truth before it’s too late?Riley Sager hits a homerun with “The Last Time I Lied.”It hits all of the marks of a great thriller and it’s one that is worth staying up late for.
Fifteen years after the disappearance of the girls from an exclusive summer camp, a successful painter has a problem. Plagued by guilt and by the knowledge of the lies she told, the painter is unable to paint anything other than impressions of the missing girls. So, of course, she returns to the scene of the disappearances. This book has some nice moody moments but veers off into the outlandish with an ending that is highly improbable. And, I’m not lying.
Oh. my. GOOOSH. FULL REVIEW TO COME SOON I PROMISE LMAO.Twitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
