https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226162.The_Omen
The movie poster for the 1976 version starring Gregory Peck and Lee Remick.Jeremy Thorn and his wife Katherine have been struggling to conceive.
Katherine is hospitalized in the 8th month and the fears of losing yet another child are gnawing at their already shattered nerves.She loses the child…but wait.Father Spilletto pulls Jeremy Thorn aside and said “do I have a deal for you” (and the devil deals the cards).
Damien seems to like her and her devotion to his welfare is without question, but when she starts to push Katherine aside the Thorns find themselves locked in a battle with the “hired help” for time with their son.
The Omen, David SeltzerJeremy Thorn, United States Ambassador to England, and his wife Katherine become the parents of a beautiful boy whose destiny is to fulfill the most horrible prophecy ever made.The Omen is a 1976 English-language supernatural horror film directed by Richard Donner, and written by David Seltzer.
They are surrounded by mysterious and ominous deaths, unaware that the child, Damien, is the Antichrist.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی و یکم ماه می سال 1998 میلادیعنوان: طالع نحس؛ اثر: دیوید سلتزر؛ برگردان: شهریار نیرومند؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر سمیر، 1376، در 335 ص، شابک: 9649038116، داستانهای آمریکایی سده 20 ماین فیلم برای نخستین بار در ایران در «جشنواره جهانی فیلم تهران» به نمایش درآمد.
That was one of my all-time favorite movies, and I’ve seen it so many times, I was actually anticipating the dialogue as I read the novel.
But that didn’t diminish the read one bit.
For those who don’t know the story (spoilers) … it’s about the birth of the devil’s child, and the ruin of the family who inadvertently raises him.
It’s not so much scary, as it is dark, brooding, and chilling.
The novel was written by the screenwriter of the film, and it was fascinating to see how he explored the sinister backgrounds behind some of the story’s more shadowy characters.
I read this book ages ago and at the time I found it quite scary. Not sure what I would make of it today. I also enjoyed the movie that was made and the characters where just as I imagined them to be.
Todo lo que buscaba en un libro clásico de horror, que me perturbe y me entretenga, es un libro corto y sólido. Perfecto para cualquier lector que busca leer algo de miedo y un MUST para los amantes del género. El final fue excelente y voy a estar viendo la película muy pronto para hacer una comparación.
After all it repeatedly appears on lists of all time greatest horror books.
First being too young (and yes scared) to watch it and then older and more skeptical of an ageing film.
Looking back I think a lot of the book plays on paranoia of the coming ages - the fear of what is around the corner with the millennium approaching, political and economical unrest (I was born in the 70s and remember some of those tensions) I think some of the power of this story has now been bleached away.
If I hadn't read this was a novelization of the incredibly chilling film starring Gregory Peck, by none other than David Seltzer himself, I would have rated it a bit higher.
Also, the character of Jennings -my own personal favourite in both the film and the novel- the young photographer who helps Thorn solve the riddle concerning the boy Damien, is significantly expanded.
I will add no spoilers but I can say that while I definitely enjoyed reading the book, it failed to chill my blood and send shivers down my spine in the way the film did.
This is what happens when you let others impregnate without checking their references, or even their DNA!
References are also important when selecting nannies, maids, drivers, and chums for you otherworldly child.
Make sure your nanny doesn't plan on make a sacrifice of herself during some public event like a BIRTHDAY PARTY!
Check the health of all your child's friends, to be sure they are resilient and can defend themselves in any situation, and don't ever be alone in the house with your child, ( just in case) he plans your own demise.
Really eerie book, even today, filled with suspense, creepiness and the horror of when evil takes the ultimate form of innocence. I highly recommend The Omen, it's definitely a nostalgic little horror classic.
حدودا 400 صفحه رو توی چند ساعت خوندم:))ترسناااک بود واقعا، بعد از مدت ها تونستم کتاب ترسناک پیدا کنم. طولانی م بود و قشنگ داستان رو پخته بود. البته مث اینکه یک فیلمم ازش ساخته شده که بهتره اونم ببینم.مخلوطی از پسرجهنمی و مقصد نهایی رو تصور کنید...
Description: Classic tale of the antichrist who comes to Earth in the form of a young boy (view spoiler)[Watch Here This original 1976 film is of course THE one to watch.Omen II Description: Seven years later, 13-year-old Damien is just discovering who he really is, and what he is destined to do.
Can Richard Thorn finish the job that Damien's father (Ambassador Thorn) started?Omen IIIDescription: Now come into his full knowledge and power, the Anti-Christ in the body of Damien Thorne is about to strike his final blow.
The Christ-child has been born again, on the Angel Isle, Great Britain (Scotland, England & Wales).
The movie adaptation of this short novel is synonymous with classic horror (and, somehow, I’ve yet to see it); the novel itself is worth a look, too.
A quick, breezy ride into the occult and the destruction of a wealthy, famous family, there is a reason this story has been well-regarded for four decades and counting.
This narrative gnaws at the reader’s mind and begs the question: “What would YOU do if you suspected your son was the anti-Christ?” There are a few strange occurrences and a couple minor gross-out moments, but on the whole this story plays in a minor key.
„Omen” czyta się z narastającą fascynacją i nieprzemijającym napięciem.
Nawet jeśli znamy już całkiem dobrze ekranizację, to powieść Davida Seltzera otwiera przed czytelnikiem nowe interpretacje i pozwala przeniknąć bliżej do świata bohaterów, z których nie wszyscy są tak jednoznaczni jak w filmie.
To opowieść, która wywołuje dreszcze i zmusza do przemyśleń, a nawet do doszukiwania się głębszych sensów.
W końcu nie ma drugiej takiej księgi, która tak bardzo działałaby na wyobraźnię, jak Pismo Święte, a to właśnie ono jest podstawą całej tej historii.
Sami możemy szukać omenów, znaki na niebie i ziemi, bo nigdy przecież nie wiadomo…To jedna z tych opowieści, które nigdy się nie starzeją.
One of my top three horror films of all time: I saw it when I was much too young, and that coupled with a Catholic education/upbringing, ruined me forever.
The ending is still shocking, and makes me wish that horror films were as good now as they were in the 70s.The moral of the story: avoid big scary dogs, demented nannies, demented nannies carrying rope at children's parties, churches during a storm, lorries carrying a consignment of glass...
Increíble, uno de los libros más entretenidos que he leído durante este año.
El libro se va tornando cada vez más enfermizo, y lo hace tan gradualmente que uno casi no puede percibirlo.Fue una de las pocas veces en las que literalmente grité de impotencia por su final, cosa curiosa, ya que más allá de ocasionales lágrimas de conmoción ante alguna situación triste, no soy de demostrar aquello que estoy viviendo en la historia a través de expresiones de esa índole.
La historia por lo general generó muchas emociones intensas que no había experimentado en mucho tiempo, y el final realmente hizo que me retorciera.
The movie of this book first introduced me to real horror - I later on became a junkie (now on withdrawal).
I read the book long afterwards but was pleasantly surprised to find that even after all the suspense was taken away, the story was still disturbing and enjoyable.
Kudos to Seltzer for providing hard-core Biblical horror.
I became a fan of the Book of Revelation after reading this.Damien, the lovable and angelic Antichrist child is a terrific creation - so is his nurse Baylock (view spoiler)[(or Ba' alok, to use her real name) (hide spoiler)].
A spooky book that will give you all the creeps.
La novela es muy entretenida, de lectura fácil y con una historia muy buena, dinámica y llena de acontecimientos.El punto flaco es el estilo literario: pobre, senzillo y demasiado directo (sin mucha o nula ambientación).
Ahora, el final del libro lo encontré genial!
La gran pega que le pondría es que como su adaptación cinematográfica fue muy literal, para quienes la hayan visto, no encotrarán casi ninguna diferencia.
Esto, conjuntamente con la baja calidad del estilo literario podría restar interés al libro.
Lo recomiendo como un referente literario que sirvió para hacer una gran película de terror.
Πολύ ωραίο, δεν ήθελα να τελιώσει!!
دوباره بازگشت به نوجوانی. دلهرهی خواندن این کتاب روی پاگرد طبقه بالا و مرگهای عجیب و شوم شخصیتها، هنوز در خاطرم هست، هنوز.
دوباره بازگشت به نوجوانی. دلهره‌ی خواندن این کتاب روی پاگرد طبقه بالا و مرگ‌های عجیب و شوم شخصیت‌ها، هنوز در خاطرم هست، هنوز.
......10 think I learned from this book.............1.
When it appears that you have killed the monster, NEVER check to see if it's really dead.2.
Never read a book of demon summoning aloud, even as a joke.3.
This also applies to kids who speak with somebody else's voice.5.
As a general rule, don't solve puzzles that open portals to Hell.7.
This would apply to any other house of the dead as well.8.
If you're searching for something which caused a loud noise and find out that it's just the cat, GET THE HELL OUT!9.
Do not take ANYTHING from the dead.thanksjantu....Bossjantu
I would be surprised if you didn't know the plot already but just in case: Ambassador Robert Thorne and his wife Kathy have a child, Damien, who - at the age of 5 - begins to change.
I especially enjoyed the little added text from the bible that Thorn is reading, leaving us to form our own theories - while watching him form HIS.The little boy is shown as adorable, and yet odd.
Nothing is overly frightening about the events, but the theme itself is deeply disturbing, and Seltzer did an excellent job transferring film to page.Do yourself a favor; if you enjoy religious horror or apocalyptic plots, hunt yourself down a copy of little Damien's upbringing.
Ormai è difficile scrivere un romanzo horror-demoniaco senza rischiare di produrre qualcosa di banale, eppure David Seltzer ci è riuscito benissimo.Dopo essermi procurata “Il presagio” in biblioteca (eh già, è un’altra di quelle perle nascoste!) ho realizzato che il film che ne era stato tratto, “Omen”, l’avevo visto, seppur non recentemente.
Ebbene, nessuna banalità, nessuna noia noia, nessuna sensazione di déjà vu: “Il presagio” si è rivelato un horror bellissimo, un continuo incubo vivido, raccapricciante, più impressionante del relativo film.
I think I was in Class 8th when I read this,an all-nighter,had homework and Isha Namaz left but just
I remember when the film The Omen (starring Gregory Peck) first aired on UK TV back in the early 1980s.
My dad banned me from watching it because I was too young.
Unperturbed, I vowed to beat this rather draconian dictum and got the book from the library.
I was hooked...Having watched the film many times since, I still think the book is better.
The idea of an antichrist wielding so much power as a child is chilling and wonderfully horrific.
A truly psychological chiller and rather disturbing as evil prevails....I was back to the library within a week to read the Omen 2.
Absolute classic! It add some details to the fantastic movie and is a pageturning read. Gosh, what a story. A must read for every fan of horror literature. One of the most gripping tales ever and extremely eerie. This is one of the books you'll never forget!
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Kathy, wife of American diplomat Robert Thorn, gives birth to a baby boy. They name him Damien. Read by Owen Teale.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b098p...

Did he rise up and say hi, I'm Lucifer, son of lies, I'm here to do some sick stuff and make a son?I honestly thought this when reading the book!?
I know I'm strange but in the book it has no explanation at all to how they got the devil's Sperm to make Damian they just said he was born of a jackel?Apart from that I loved this classic horror book, The idea of the Antichrist being born made for a very chilling and spooky tale.David seltzer does an amazing written work on this.
Sin duda una lectura excelente, me mantuvo enganchada todo el tiempo, las cosas que sucedían eran todas inesperadas y a pesar de lo increíble que parecían se sentían muy reales. Definitivamente seguiré leyendo los demás libros de la saga y veré las películas.
