https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/179343.Artemisia
It is the strangeness of the past, rendered with piercing concreteness, that gives the effect of realism.Artemisia is in some ways a forerunner of Mantel’s Cromwell novels.
The boldness and imaginative intensity with which Banti allows herself to be possessed by Artemisia is similar to Mantel’s wholehearted immersion into the intimate life of Cromwell.
Like Mantel, Banti gives herself licence to imagine and invent descriptive details which bring her character vividly to life.
Banti doesn’t seek to give us any kind of detailed chronology of Artemisia’s achievements.
Paradoxically though it’s when Banti shows us Artemisia in the larger context of history that this novel really shines.
4.5/5 All the forms of an extreme rebellion against a fact of nature seemed preferable to a pain that had not yet been given shape by the words of others, words so simple and commonplace, horribly new and unacceptable. I think we can all agree that, in reference to the most aged of defined terms of "rhetoric", pathos is both the most volatile and the most disparaged. In contrast to the ethos and the logos, reputation in fact and word in form, there are neither dictionaries to consult nor citatio
In contrast to the ethos and the logos, reputation in fact and word in form, there are neither dictionaries to consult nor citations to cross reference, nothing standardized that commits one choice to that is so, this other one to that is like.
On the other this is a work that was translated into English and introduced by Susan Sontag for merits of chronological reclamation and metafictional endeavor, reborn from the collapse of WWII as one soul cried out to another who could not help but set down in ink and prose, transcribed from the breed of communion that would make both the History Major and the English Major faint.
A Difficult Knot to Untie Artemisia Gentileschi This book was recommended to me by someone who read it in Italian, and at first I tried to do the same. But it seemed strangely difficult, even though I use the language often in my operatic work, so after 50 pages I switched to this translation by Shirley D'Ardia Caracciolo. Certainly, this solved the problem of Anna Banti's unusually large vocabulary, although Caracciolo's translation seems dense and dull by comparison, conveying the sense but f
In wakening Artemisia to life once again, the author was no longer content with a straight biography but, as she explains in a preface to the reader, wanted to set down her own emotions as well: shaken by events, but both possessed by and possessing Artemisia.So scenes in the crowded streets in baroque Rome alternate with crowds of refugees in the Boboli Gardens in Florence, fleeing the mined buildings and huddling on the grass to avoid being machine-gunned (no wonder I had a hard time following!).

Seduta sulla ghiaia nei giardini di Boboli, Lucia è in lacrime per la devastazione lasciata dal bombardamento tedesco; Firenze sconvolta, la distruzione della sua casa e il manoscritto del racconto “Artemisia”, sepolto sotto le macerie, perduto per sempre.Sfollati che vagano attoniti, gruppi formati per mutuo soccorso, donne che litigano per l’acqua di una fontanella; ma, all’improvviso, la voce di una giovinetta viene a distrarla dal suo dolore.
The novel opens with Artemisa addressing her creator/biographer "Non piangere" It's absolutely one of my favorite openings, conveying so much in a few words, the relationship between the renaissance artist and the twentieth century author, the particular challenges for the two female creators, their shared experience of disaster.
That relationship is the one of the most intriguing and pleasurable aspects of the book.
The other is Banti's gorgeous, challenging, evocative prose.
Her effort to evoke what Gentileschi might have been thinking or feeling is often powerful: however, her insistence on her anguished relationship to her largely absent father and to her husband to whom she was so briefly married was baffling at times.
It's a novel that combines a biographical side, the 17th-century artist Artemisia Gentileschi, a woman who insisted that her art was to.be taken seriously.
And while I know some of these paintings in my head, others have been brought to life by Banti's descriptions and will resonate even more when I get a chance to look at them again.Banti also writes about the horror of rape.
It is remarkable for the ease with which Banti changes perspective and time.
The rewriting by Banti is reflected in the recreating of Artemisia in her life and through this novel.
There was a famous rape trial of her youth, and then knowledge of where she was at certain periods of her life due in part to the record of her art sales.As Banti exposes us to the Artemisia character of her book, we experience some sense of what being a famous artist must have been like for her in a time when it was virtually unheard of a woman being an artist and self-supporting.
Banti's Artemisia seems sad much of her life with the only bright spot being her art.
My review: https://theblankgarden.com/2018/08/02...
La cosa che più mi fa rabbia* è non averlo potuto leggere in originale: solitamente si acquista un libro in inglese per leggerlo in anteprima, per esercitare la lingua, o altro.
Ho dovuto leggerlo in inglese, perché la Bompiani si ostina a non ripubblicare l'Artemisia della Banti e la Mondadori non ne vuole sapere di raccogliere la sua opera omnia nei Meridiani.
Non sarò capace di leggere e farmi piacere mai più nessun'altra biografia della Gentileschi dopo questa.
*cioè, ma guarda tu se non posso leggerlo in italiano perché la Bompiani non lo ripubblica!
Interesting read but you need to peel it and peel it before you get the logistics of narrator and occurrence. Difficult read and mighty personality which captures the crux of her dilemma and the time she lived in. Far beyond the degree to accuracy of most historical fiction. I can only imagine the courage it took to voice her attack and also to walk a path to her vocation as an artist.
Libro scritto in modo aulico e meraviglioso. Troppo poco conosciuto, dovrebbe essere letto in Italia, porca miseria, dovrebbero conoscerla in tanti questa scrittura ricca, complessa. Detto questo.Io l'ho odiato. Non so perché. Ho lottato per finirlo.
Had to hurry through the last third of this; due without renewal option. Is it biography? Is it historical fiction? It blends the two, transcends them, becomes a sort of impressionistic psychological portrait reconstituted out of one part history and nine parts imagination. The author occasionally breaks through the narrative and holds conversations with her subject—these interludes were simultaneously absorbing and distracting. There are sharp literary chops on display, but Artemisia the book succeeds most when Artemisia the character is allowed to remain a symbol. All of it is an interpretation.
Anna Banti perdió el manuscrito de su novela en los bombardeos de Florencia de 1944.
Entonces se propuso no escribir el mismo libro, sino meditar sobre el mismo y dialogar con Artemisia Gentileschi en una biografía que en realidad es un experimento en forma de introspección psicológica y de estudio de las mentalidades del Barroco, pero también de una mujer avanzada a su época pero inmersa en ella, y no tanto una pura reconstrucción histórica.
El estilo de Banti está lleno de imágenes únicas y reflexiones profundas.
No es un libro fácil -no hay diálogos ni división en capítulos- pero es una experiencia de una riqueza y una delicadeza infrecuentes en la literatura del siglo XX.
Es una rememoración poética, profundamente subjetiva, casi como un mal sueño continuo, de lo que sintió la pintora en cada supuesto momento de su vida, elaborado por la escritora mientras dialoga con el fantasma de Artemisia huyendo en su ciudad, destruida por las bombas en la Segunda Guerra Mundial.
Creo que es un soberbio ejercicio de escritura y de recreación de ambientes desde la subjetividad, pero no es una lectura fácil.
Si estás en un momento de tu vida en el que estás cansado, no es tu libro, al menos no lo fue para mí.
Un libro difficile e amaro, che sono contenta di aver cercato in lungo e in largo (è praticamente in
Storia senza singhiozzi, si legge con l'impeto di un mare in burrasca: infatti, il romanzo non è suddiviso in capitoli, non vi è il tempo di riprendere fiato.
D'altronde tutto ciò rispecchia la vita di Artemisia: una serie di eventi senza tempo, di ostacoli che paiono insormontabili ma che, con una tenacia esemplare, Artemisia si lascia alle spalle.
Romanzo molto attuale nonostante il lessico ricercato: affermare se stesse in un mondo dove ancora oggi le donne sono costantemente sottovalutate.Mi sono sentita la terza protagonista di questa storia, ho vissuto insieme a lei il suo viaggio, imparando molto.Anche io spero di trovare qualcuno che sappia trattenermi.
Banti's historical fiction about the Renaissance painter Artemisia Gentileschi is a wonderfully creative take on the genre, being both biographical (of Banti's house fire which destroyed her original writings) and fictional novel (of Artimisia's personal journeys as a painter in Italy and England). The story of the artist is enthralling, but it is brought to life through Banti's creative feminist narrative on a woman operating in, and excelling in, a man's world (something Banti shares with her subject).
Cercavo una biografia di Artemisia Gentileschi che mi permettesse di immergermi nella vita di questa grande pittrice. Ma il testo di Banti è molto lontano da qualsiasi comune biografia che ha meramente un fine di cronaca, di racconto di un vissuto. Artemisia di Anna Banti è una poesia in prosa. Non è di certo una lettura leggera o scorrevole ma è un vero e proprio gioiellino della letteratura italiana. Non conoscevo questa grande scrittrice e sono contenta di aver scovato questa personalità1
If you want to read this, make sure you get an edition that has an introduction by Susan Sontag. Without that introduction, I would have been very confused and overwhelmed by the writing of the main text.
Cool idea for a book and some nice descriptions, even through the translation
Anna Banti’s novel Artemisia tells the story of the painter Artemisia Gentileschi, who was one of the first women to have a successful career as an artist.
In Banti’s version of the story, her daughter turned against her.
After her father’s death, she returned to Italy, where she lived her last years.Banti, the pseudonym of art historian and novelist Lucia Lopresti, tells Artemisia’s story in a very unusual way.
It was going to be a more straightforward novel of Artemisia’s life, but instead, in the later version, Banti has turned it into a dialogue between herself and Artemisia, and you see Artemisia following the author through the devastated city.
Her draft of Artemisia’s biography destroyed in a devastating action of German troops retreating from Florence in 1944, Anna Banti begins to rewrite her novel with the words “Don’t cry” to console herself as well as her heroine Artemisia Gentileschi.
With the burden of her own despair in the face of (luckily past) disaster that she still needs to digest, the author recreates the painter as a woman devoted to her artistic talent to the point of sacrifice.
But Artemisia is also a repeatedly blessed and suffering soul because she doesn’t fit into the common cliché of daughter, wife and mother.Find a long review of the Italian classic Artemisia by Anna Banti on my book blog Edith’s Miscellany at  http://edith-lagraziana.blogspot.com/2017/05/artemisia-by-anna-banti.html.
Yeah, it actually kind of is.This is largely the story of the conflict inherent in being a woman working in a man's role.
There's a really palpable tension that Artemisia feels between her performance of feminine gender norms - her role as a daughter, mother, wife - and her work as a painter, to such an extent that painting is basically the only time when she really seems like a whole person.
I'm not going to lie to you: I eventually went with three stars because while the content and themes are pretty cool, I'm a lazy reader and I disapprove of the amount of effort I had to put in to sort the voices out.
Artemisia is an utterly believable creation of a stunning painter influenced by Caravaggio who converted his violence into reinterpretations of such characters as Judith and Susanna, that fully channel her own trauma.
Drawing on the court records of Artemisia's trial-- she was raped and tortured to make her confess she had invited the assault-- Banti shows how the trauma gave her unwelcome fame, a husband not of her choosing, and the energy to go it alone in what was then a man's world with a vengeance.As a novel that does full justice to the experience of a painter, it is right up there with Joyce Cary's A Horse's Mouth and Patrick White's The Vivisector.
I struggled with the narration at first; I wasn't sure who was talking to who and who was telling the story, but after 100 pages or so, I figured it out and became absorbed by the story.Banti has a really interesting style, something I don't think I've ever come across before.
Artemisia is an excellent protagonist, she's headstrong and independent yet Banti lets us see the fragility underneath.I'm not a big fan of biographies at all but this is definitely one I would recommend as it feels like a normal book and the story and characters are intriguing.
Banti has done a really good job of depicting the life of someone who deserves a lot more credit than she ever received.
Non è fiction, non è storia, non è biografia: Artemisia è un libro difficilissimo da inquadrare. Si tratta di una lunga conversazione immaginaria mista a immedesimazione psicologica della Banti con il personaggio storico di Artemisia. Non esistono così tante fonti storiche che descrivano questa donna al punto da giustificare una tale esplorazione psicologica; incredibile quindi il lavoro dell'autrice nel ricostruire questa figura mettendoci del suo e rendendola un suo doppio, ma anche un simbolo del femminismo in generale.
Interesting, and very different from the historical novels I usually read. Because the author is also exploring her feelings about her writing process, her relationship to her characters, and the calamity of losing the first version in a bombing, it's very distant. You can't get inside the character's head and escape into her world. Well written, though mysterious, especially when it comes to the details of the artist's life and separating history from art.
A biography in novel form about Artemisia Gentileschi, the Renaissance painter who survived being put on trial following her rape to work long and productively for many years in Naples and elsewhere. Banti's first draft of this novel was destroyed during the fighting in WWII, so that loss becomes part of the story as her subject alternately haunts and eludes her.
This is a fascinating novel in which the protagonist and author are interwoven in complicated ways. It's not so much a factual biography of Artemisia Gentilleschi as a contemplation of what kind of woman she was.
