https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/950161.Lady_Killer
By this point, the main characters were fairly well-established and needed no introduction, but the book itself is something of an oddity in the series in that most of the books have the detectives of the 87th working at least a couple of cases.
As always, McBain provides an interesting and entertaining ride, although this would not rank among the better books in the series.In a new introduction, McBain explains that he wrote the book under a deadline, in just nine days.
I'm pretty sure McBain still hasn't got over being foisted with the big lunk and is deliberately sending him up.
Remember 'Cop Hater' the first book in the series and set in a relentless heatwave.
It doesn't quite drip with heat as 'Cop Hater' did, but it's still a scorcher.Sure this one has its flaws but at this stage McBain/Hunter etc was knocking about three of these out a year, just as a sideline to his more profitable work.
Eight books into the series and the first thing that happens after the last page turns is a hunt for the next one.
Not as good as a locked room mystery but still intriguing. I am awed McBain could write an entire novel based on the premise. A note is given to the desk sergeant, "I Will Kill the Lady TONIGHT At 8 What CAN YOU DO ABOUT IT?" This is the novel. Solving the crime in less than 24 hours using reasonable police methods for 1958. Remember this was before DNA testing and cameras on every corner etc. The story itself wasn't earth-shattering but I thought it was entertaining and clever.
Perhaps the most interesting thing about this book is explained in an updated foreword by the author.
In it, McBain explains the circumstances surrounding the reasons he wrote this very short (180 pages) book in just nine days in the summer of 1957.
At that time, these books went straight to paperback and were to be exactly 180 pages- exactly.
Those folks would be better served to read some of the more involved issues of the 87th Precinct series before this one.
There is only one case and the detectives follow it from beginning to end with very little sidetracking.
The 87th Precinct receives a cryptic anonymous note saying that a murder will be committed at 8 pm that evening, so it's a race against the clock.
The entire book covers less than a 12 hour period and reading this felt like an episode of the TV series 24.
These are great books if you are into 1950's detective fiction and need a quick, easy read between other major reads.
I have another dozen or so on my Kindle and look forward to reading more of the 87th Precinct.
Again a good quick read, with likeable characters.
finished this one this morning, 8:36 a.m. if it matters.
great story!
and this one, too, kindle, has an intro from mcbain written in the early 90s, nice, as mcbain explains a bit more (like in the other intros) how this particular story came to be.
says he wrote it in...was it nine weeks?
nine days.
he wrote the piece in nine days.
i enjoyed the comedic relief in this one, the boys in the red striped tee-shirts, the cop talk, plus he throws in more than a few police artist sketches.
always a plus.
Good fast paced book.
What can you do about it?" It is currently 8:00am - the detectives have twelve hours to figure out who the killer is, who "the lady" is, where the murder is going to take place and stop it.
This was a good story and because of the twelve hour deadline, I felt more tension and urgency while the detectives went about their assignments and hunches, etc.
Having just finished it for the second time, I admit there are some weaknesses to it, but I am willing to look the other way as the pace of the plot is fairly tight and there is much tension in the race against time to find and stop a killer with only a short cut & pasted note to go on.I think the thing I like most about the book is its simplicity.
McBain simply doesn't get bogged down in detail or more words than the absolute minimum needed to tell the story.
The best way I could describe this short novel, written in the late 1950's, was like an entertaining but not hugely detailed television drama - perhaps a TV movie.
It is rough and fun and a book of its time, lacking the subtlety and complexity of modern day crime novels.
This edition is made more enjoyable by the few drawings and illustrations that it contains, but some of the dialogue is a bit tedious.However, it is the kind of book you can sit down with at 8.00pm at night and finish before its time to put the lights out, so in that respect, it was very satisfying.
Hardboiled fiction, fun!
This was a hoot to read, because it felt like the script to an episode of "Dragnet".
Sometimes I like to challenge myself with a book, but on other occasions I just want to have some fun.
This definitely qualified as fun.
It was written in 1956, so you have to adjust your perspective for lifestyles and technology that aren't really with us anymore.
If you can watch an old black and white movie on Turner Classics I think you'll be just fine.
This was a good read, and it'd be fun to follow this cast of characters.
A young boy delivers a letter to the desk sergeant at the 87th Precinct, which has newspaper words that state "the Lady" will be killed at 8 PM that night. Steve Carella and Cotton Hawes and the rest of the squad try to figure out the identity of the victim and the perpetrator through acccelerated police work. The highlight of this story are the sequential sketches created from Cotton and an 8-year old's brief sightings. At 7:57, they finally figure out the mystery and rocket off to avert the murder.
Gungho! The Bulls of the 87th are riding to the rescue but who are they rescuing? An anonymous letter arrives at the precinct that suggests there is to be a murder later the same day.The chase is led by Steve Carella, Cotton Hawes, Meyer Meyer and Lt Byrnes. The usual all action stuff with plenty of shoot-outs to keep us all on our toes. Jolly good quick read.
Or perhaps, if the news was headlined in Variety, SOPPY COP DROPS.‘How do you like this Variety headline announcing my death by heat prostration?’ he said to Carella as they entered another hockshop.
‘How about mine?’‘In Variety?’‘Sure.’‘Let me hear it.’‘SOPPY WOP COP DROPS.’"Lady Killer has a sense of urgency from the off.
If the letter is telling the truth, they have a day to solve the case.
There’s still a great range of characters to get to know and with Cotton Hawes at the fore, we have another opportunity to get inside his head.If there’s a downside to this one, it’s a minor one.
I'm fairly certain I have read this before, years ago.Even still, though I remember the solution being unusual, I didn't figure it out till the detectives did.
Hawes took center stage here, discovering the place where "John Smith" lives, upsetting the culprit watching the detectives through binoculars (I did remember that part from my first read) and flirting with a bookstore owner named Christine.
The only other weird thing is that one of the detectives mentions wanting to meet Carella's wife Teddy, which he would have done a few months ago, in October, in Killer's Wedge.
I am a fan of Ed McBain's 87th Precinct series and have been reading them chronologically.
This book was different than the previous novels because it focused on one case over the span of a single 12 hour day.
The pacing was terrific and you didn't want to put the book down once you started reading.
I don't know about anybody else but I didn't anticipate how it was going to end until the last clue was stumbled over in the last chapter.
The only fault I found, and a minor one, was the ending seemed a little rushed.
The primary virtue of this novel is it is short.
A letter delivered to the 87th precinct "announces" a murder and challenges the police to stop it.
The letter provides meager clues for the dectectives to follow.
Through a series of unlikely circumstances, Dectective Cotton Hawes crosses paths with the killer twice who escapes both times without revealing his identity or the intended victim.
The novel, which McBain said in his introduction, was written in 9 days and could easily have been a script for any number of police shows in the late '5os, '60s, or even later.
A young boy enters the 87th precinct and hands the cop on duty a note he was asked to deliver which reads: "I will kill the lady tonight at 8." What lady?
Who wrote the note?
Can the cops of the 87th answer these questions in time to prevent the killing?
You'll find the answers in this exciting novel.
One reason I am not becoming bored in any way with this series is that the books are so varied.
Obviously, this one doesn't focus on character development; it takes place over a very short period of time.
On to the next entry in this outstanding series.
Yet another 87th Precinct book. Satisfying. The cops go on a crazy chase looking for a man who plans to kill. Some of it seems quite implausible and baffling. But the overall effect is fantastic fub.I have recently heard, via twitter, that there is an 87th Precinct podcast. Without hearing a single episode, I've decided to bite the bullet and read all the 87th books. Turns out they are available through Kindle unlimited. I'm going to start with book number one.These books are a bit like candy. Not a lot of depth, but somehow, more satisfying than just candy.
This was a very enjoyable read, if trademark quick one. The 87th are sent a note saying that “the lady” will be killed at 8 tonight, in the middle of a typical city heat wave. The cops chase around trying to find clues but not getting very far, until a last minute brainwave leads to a chase against the deadline!
Love these booksAfter all these years I still can't get enough of these books! I will continue with this seires and then in to the rest of his books!
3.75
Another solid instalment. I'm loving the author's introductions on the reprints. Apparently this was written in 9 days, no rewrites.
Kind of a step back - still pretty good - but comes up short when compared to others in the series.
Strangely enough, the forced time limit of the plot doesn't quite push the suspense of the story beyond anything in the previous novels, possibly because despite the race against the clock, there are still plenty of stretches involving the kind of highly detailed leg work that drives McBains 87th Precinct books.
This also marks the first appearance of "Doomed Detective" Bob O'Bryan, who has been forced to kill seven men in his ten year career, after each of which "He wept inside, where it hurts most." Also notable is the few asides where Carella and Hawes tackle the moral dilemma of the need to turn a blind eye to some crimes in order to focus on others, and the rational behind keeping some illegal activities (like prostitution) penned in but active out in the open instead of widespread and underground.
Problem is, the city contains millions of women—finding the right one in twelve hours is like finding a needle in a haystack.Detectives Steve Carella and Cotton Hawes go down the list of likely suspects but in a city this big, it's a best-guess scenario.
Boy found and with Cotton Hawes are able to create a picture of suspect.
Then find person again and a shoot out but he escapes across roof tops, Card leads to diner partnership then to girl friend of partnerwho has gone fishing.
What surprised me was the principal characters in the precinct (Carella, Hawes, Meyer and others) are the same cops who were still fighting crime in the early 2000's--un-aged and essentially the same, yet eternally contemporary.
Unlike Michael Connelley's Harry Bosch or Sue Grafton's Kinsey Milhone who have aged more or less naturally over the course of the novels.
Grafton has taken the approach in her more recent novels of writing stories that took place in the past, locking her protagonist into natural aging and keeping her in her prime in the 80's.Connelly has let Bosch age but has utilized different mechanisms to allow his popular character to stay vital and on the force despite impending retirement.
The entire team spends the day trying to decipher what that might mean and whether or not it's a hoax.
Weather always seems to figure heavily into these stories and it's July and hot and few places have air conditioning.
The first part of the novel is the cops trying to find the 10 year-old boy who left the note and figure out who The Lady is.
The team tries all of those roads and it leads to some interesting interactions philosophical questions.
Is it better to let prostitution thrive in a certain part of town or should the cops make it go underground?
#8 in publication order of the 87th Precinct mysteries, this one features a case without a killer--at least to begin with.
A young boy is sent into the precinct house with an envelope which contains a letter pieced together with cut out letters from the newspaper threatening to kill The Lady if they police can't stop him by 8 pm.
It's quite a hoot reading these old mysteries that are very dated because they mention the cost of items and salaries of policemen and where the only forensic evidence are fingerprints, which take a very long time to process.
The characters (including minor ones) and locations (New York in all but name) jump off the page at you, and the plot - a race against time to stop a murder happening with only twelve hours to find out not only who is to be killed but who the murderer is - rattles along, and the atmosphere of the book...
well, to me this feels like this is what it would be like - I may be wrong, but it feels right.McBain wrote dozens of these books (along with many others), so god alone knows where I'll go next.
