https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/944073.The_Blade_Itself
I’m going to do something that's a little disrespectful and start this review by talking about another fantasy series that I’ve enjoyed: A Song of Ice and Fire.
The darkness comes, as it should in all quality fiction, not necessarily from the actual bad things that happen to good people, but from the depth of the characterizations themselves.
Bad things happen to very real, very well-characterized, and truly understandable people, and so those bad things are made all the more upsetting, all the more hard to read.
But what I rarely see mentioned is the wonderful lightness of tone that makes the novel such a pleasure to read.
Fantasy doesn't need to be all blood and whirling blades, but if a fantasy writer straps a broadsword to a character's side, it had better be drawn in anger, at some point.This was one of the best fantasy novels I've read in a while, especially impressive as it's a first novel.
Bayaz spends a good deal of his time acting un-wizardly (in Logen's opinion), more like a balding, fat, lazy peasant.
A lot of fantasy writers make the mistake of giving the reader too much information about the world they've created.
There is a lot going on in Abercrombie's world yet, it is a shame that the two versions of this book that I have didn't include any cartographed maps.
The four main individuals are:Jezal: A vain, selfish nobleman and talented fencer.Logan: An infamous warrior.Glokta: A tortured and crippled torturer.Bayaz: A mage whose motives are mystical.I will not go into any real details about them, how they intertwine, their opinions shared in monologues regarding the others (if they meet that is) but it is a pleasure to read about these characters that are, on paper at least, completely unlikeable.
Arguments ensued thereafter until eventually they understood – even if they did not agree – with my lack of excitement with grimwhine, and so these close buddies of mine insisted that Shattered Sea was really a YA fantasy series and demanded that I try The First Law before I abandoned Lord Grimdark, because it was his masterpiece.Well, I have recently completed my read of The Blade Itself, book one of The First Law. And, for those who have never tried it, I will attempt to sum it up succinctly for you.This is a story told from multiple points of view by several main characters with the most important being: Jezal, the rich, noble’s son who is bratty and also a great swordsman; Logen, the northern barbarian who has a dark, mysterious past but wants to escape from it; Ferro, a fugitive slave from the nation of Gurkhul whose desire for revenge is greater than her common sense; and Glokta, a handicapped war hero who is now a torturer working for the Union’s secretive inquisition.
How they relate & integrate themselves into the plot feels very believable & covers a wide range of positions, which provides decent footing for the reader to understand Abercrombie's world through their eyes.My favorite character was a tie between Inquisitor Sand dan Glotka, once a brilliant & charming swordsman, now crippled & experienced in the art of torture, and Logen "Ninefingers," a banished Northman warrior with a bloody reputation.
But "good" is the best way I can describe my reading of The Blade Itself.I'm glad I read it, as I've heard the next two books really take off & take the reader on a crazy journey.
"So, let's cast the characters for our novel, shall we?""Of course, boss, Mr. Abercrombie, sir!""Where is the run-of-a-mill farmboy with a great destination?""I'm afraid he ran of the mill, met a goblin.
On a stretch I might have a savage female psychokiller on a revenge streak.""Oh please no, not for the beginning of the novel!""Maybe later then, boss?""Maybe later, for now, let's work with these guys..."And Abercrombie worked really well with them.
Maybe there are even more casting surprises ahead."Oh, boss...one thing...the savage guy brought some friends aswell.""Of course, he did, of course...we'll make it work."
I almost put down the book when 3 paragraphs in the first 3 pages began with some version of this line:"Shit," he said.But I managed to slog through because I was told this was a some genre-breaking novel that didn't rely so heavily on typical fantasy clichés and it was supposed to be really dark and gritty.
For the majority of the book, this down to earth girl is the only female character in the entire thing.
About two thirds of the way through, we're introduced to our second female character who is also, surprise, a victim of abuse and a former slave.
Joe Abercrombie certainly knows how to write some disturbingly likable characters.
Logan Ninefingers is a brutal warrior who goes into insane blood rages where he kills anything, and everything, near him.
A character defining opening I love how this novel begins because it sets the tone for the rest of it.
The Bloody-Nine they call me, my enemies, and there’s a lot of ’em.
He’s an exceptionally good judge of character.
Yet, somehow Abercrombie has made this bloodthirsty barbarian into a likable protagonist.
Say one thing of Abercrombie; say he can write disturbingly likable characters, and novels; he’s quite good at novels too.
I liked the way the story was constructed, primarily following three main characters, with a fourth was added partway through the book.
While I had heard this was a "dark fantasy," with unlikeable characters, I would wholeheartedly disagree, at least within the confines of this book.
Perhaps on the surface our three main characters are unlikeable--one a 'barbarian' with a very bloody past, Logen Ninefingers; one a vain and talented peacock, Captain Jezel; and the last a maimed and internally tortured torturer, Inquisitor Glokta--but they are imbued with a humanity that makes them likeable despite themselves.
Logen Ninefinger, the Schizophrenia barbarian, Sand dan Glokta, once the best swordsman turned crippled and torturer and Jezal dan Luthar, the narcissistic fencer who wanted nothing more than fame.The book starts really slow but it really builds up a lot of stories to be resolved in the next book (or maybe the last I don't know yet), not in this book no, there are way too many things unfinished so if you're going into this, please know that you're in it for the whole trilogy.
Going to starts the next book soon after writing this and my recommendation is if you're looking for dark fantasy (it's bloody, believe me), with great characterization, dark humor, and great action scenes, you can't go wrong with this one.
● Buddy read with the wannabe torturers over at BBB ●DNF at 34%.You! Yes, you there! The person who is reading this review right now! Are you one of the hilarious people who told me I was going LOVE this book? You aren't? It's your lucky day, you should try playing the lottery or something. Now. If you are one of the  delirious  people who did tell me I was going to LOVE this book…oh man, you are SO doomed.I mean, what the bloody hell??!! How DARE you suicidal people lure me into this by danglin
people who did tell me I was going to LOVE this book…oh man, you are SO doomed.I mean, what the bloody hell??!!
This book is boring as hell.Bye now.PS: I might be slightly charitable to Grumpy-Ouch-It-Hurts torturers, but I'm not so lenient towards delusional people who think they can recommend I read Crappy Books (CB™) and get away with it unharmed, unscathed and stuff.
You are SO in for that paid burn-in-hell holiday, people.My dear friends keep telling me I will LOVE Glokta.
Weird.Looking forward to reading this and then sending half of my friend list on a paid burn-in-hell holiday.
On the run from a king he once served, barbarian Logen Ninefingers finds himself in the Union's capital, aligned with Bayaz, a legendary wizard long thought dead.
- Also, Logen reminds me of a young version of Terry Pratchett's Cohen The Barbarian.- I'm not sure if Abercrombie has ever read Hugh Cook's Chronicles of an Age of Darkness series but the writing and morally ambiguous characters make them spiritual brothers.- I have a feeling Glokta will wind up being my second favorite character in the series.- I love Abercrombie's magic system and the history of the Magi.Four blood-dripping stars!
Glokta clearly shows the true, complicated and fascinating nature of Abercrombie’s skills to write.
His situation, confused as a fish out of water nature throws most of the best jokes in the book, but he’s not so interesting as Glokta.
Logen's favourite activity through all the book is fighting, hope it will change in the sequels.The book reveals its story in multiple layers that blend and ravel skillfully, with the taste of blood, humour, political machinations, threat of war, ancient supernatural forces.
This heads for something big.I REALLY enjoyed the book, it showed the fascinating world of badass likable characters and enlarged my database of quotes.
The first book, The Blade Itself, introduces a cast of well-developed, complex characters throw together in a world loosely based on medieval Europe.
It's also not clear who the good guys and bad guys are -- kind of like real life.
If this sounds like A Game of Thrones, well, yes -- the series are very different, but they do share some elements: morally complex protagonists, no easy answers, and a well-rendered world with a long history and many cultures.
If you like fantasy, check it out, and stay with it until the end of the third book.
I'll start this review by saying that, currently, I have 197 Goodreads friends (which is really something, as I doubt there are even 50 people in my real life that I can stand).
In fact, this would be pretty much the perfect example of "preaching to the choir." That's not gonna stop me from saying this: Abercrombie is a fucking genius, and this book ranks in the top ten best fantasy books ever written.The sheer number of reviews on this will let me squeak on by with no synopsis of plot, or detailing of characters.
Sale Alert: Kindle Daily Deal on 16Jul18 on Amazon for $2.99Buddy read starting 7/25/14 with Athena, Alexa, Kat Stark, Jessica,  Jennifer and Eon  ‘History is littered with dead good men.’  Do you like morally ambiguous characters? Do you want to read something where there is no clear ‘all good’ or ‘all bad’ persons, where people and their motivations are a mystery for the most part? If you love fantasies that focus on the characters a little more than the world building then this is totally for
Of the two main female characters one drinks a little much, swears like a sailor and isn’t afraid to hand you your ass, the other is a stone cold killer.
While things were happening constantly and I was totally cast into this story I will admit that there isn’t a lot of plot as of yet.
But now that we have met everyone and the stones have been cast I imagine the next book will have more plot details happening.Recommended for people who like there fantasy a little on the grungy side.
Finally finished! Brilliant, one of a kind characters, interesting story, but it did drag a little through certain sections. I'm going to take a few days to consider a rating. :)
*** 4.75 ***A buddy re-read with my friends from BB&BJust as great as the first time around:-)
6.0 stars (One of My All Time Favorites). Absolutely outstanding debut novel. Right along side The Lies of Locke Lamora by Scott Lynch and The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss as the best debut Fantasy novels of the last few years. This book is as good as the fantasy genre gets and I can not wait to read the sequel. Finally, IMHO, Glotka is one of the most original and best developed characters in a long time. Highly recommended. Nominee: John A. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Novel (2008).
It can’t be helped to compare the trilogy to the Song of Ice and Fire (Game of Thrones) series in its depth of detail, its rollcall of wonderful characters, hidden plots and agendas, and fantasy dimensions.
The world of Joe Abercrombie it told in superb vivid detail where multiple cultures and nations are warring and untrustworthy of the other but there is the darker menace growing in strength and intent on domination.The plot is a rollercoaster of action with characters that are wonderfully drawn.
The character layers are developed throughout the book and they are individually capable, dangerously incompetent, and never sure whether they will stand out as unlikely heroes or unseen traitors.
As Logen would say, let's be a little realistic here : I wouldn't want to meet them in a millions years - but the truth is, it's almost never the case with my favorite characters, because I have the bad habit of falling in love with characters who share a questionable sense of morality.Lately I realized that the only multi-POV I can handle are fantasy ones, and I really think that's because the characterization is amazing in these cases : from Robin Hobb to Abercrombie, every character is fleshed-out and above that, has a different voice.▩ Logen.
I did initially give this 5 stars due to superb characters, but downgraded it after some consideration regarding the plot.
It was good, but that was just where it stopped for me.This book though, hit all the right notes.
(Must.Not.Spoil.For.Others.)Mostly this book IS about the characters, rather than showing us all the cards where the plotline is concerned.
And although the overall arc seems to be secondary to setting up the world and its characters, Mr Abercrombie has done enough to keep me reading.
Even if the plot does get stuck a bit, he has given us a fantastic character pool to keep us entertained.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestHilariously, I read THE BLADE ITSELF alongside SUMMER OF THE UNICORN, and while both are fantasy novels, just look at those covers and guess who the targeted audience for each is. Yeah, I thought so. Now imagine THE BLADE ITSELF with a hero (let's go with Bayaz) and a heroine (Ferro?) clad in scanty clothes, miming sexual positions around a sword plunged into the middle of a scenic wood populated by deer...and Shanka.This NEEDS to happen!My
The beginning was so tedious that I remember thinking to myself, "I wonder how much Mary will hate me if I put this book down slowly and pick up a bodice ripper instead?" (Spoiler: Probably not at all, Mary is super cool.) But I have a modicum of honor, so I forced myself to keep reading and the book (very gradually) got better as other characters entered the fray.I'm not sure how to summarize the book except to say that it's a lot like GAME OF THRONES, in the sense that it is about a kingdom that has been plagued by war in the past and has a new threat looming on the horizon.
4 stars
I really wanted to like this book, because I hear a lot of people saying such great things about Joe Abercrombie, but holy crap, this book is just a complete and utter failure to tell a compelling story in every single way imaginable.
When you don't like, or don't care about any of the characters in a book, there's no emotional attachment.
I tried, but there's just nothing in this book I found even remotely interesting, and I just can't force myself to try reading any more of it.
Life—the way it really is—is a battle not between good and bad, but between bad and worse.’Joseph Brodsky I know I would love this book when I read the synopsis,and am glad this book lived up to expectations.Never have I seen grey characters portrayed perfectly, the characters are so amiable that its easy to overlook their morals. The book is also original, well written battle scenes, cultures, good dose of romance, diversity etc.World building and Writing I always appreciate a good world build
Logen Nine Fingers aka The Bloody Nine, Logen is the most notorious of all the characters, he can kill with basically anything and has a reputation for been brutal, but despite all this he is a thinker, which is a rarity in killers, his internal monologue is so funny, his favourite phrases are You’ve got to be realistic and I’m still alive which he tell himself after each fight.
So I gave it a whirl.Well, I can say this for it - it's not bleak and disheartening, unless you count being disheartned by being so underwhelmed by a book so lauded by so many people.So I suppose I best actually talk about the book at some point.In short, this book reads like the sort of typical "gather your party" type thing, but that's all that it is.
I've also been promised that there's character development and intrigue and things which are occassionally glimpsed in this book, which promises the potential for more.And I've been told that the writing improves, too, and that can only be a good thing.So, while this book ends up pretty low in my rating, I probably will read the next one at some point.
To my surprise I didn’t find it dark nor grim as I thought, there’s lots of good humor and the atmosphere is relatively “calm” without any imminent cataclysm, or a world in the brink of total destruction.
As I see it, it’s more *light* fantasy than dark fantasy so far :)Characters - One of Joe’s strength is his characters, they feel like real characters, and think like “real” humans and not like the classic heroes (maybe the flawed version of them), they get cynical, happy, lazy, angry, afraid, mad, jealous, funny, yearn etc, and just feel real.Magic System - There’s magic in the world, but it looks like it’s slowly diminishes within time.
The first thing noticeable right away is the quality of writing: it really shines and up there with the best examples of fantasy genre.
I can only think of two exceptions where I felt major characters were somewhat wooden (Major West and his sister), but considering this is only the first book of the trilogy they still have time to develop.Several other things of note: I finally found a realistic description of absolute monarchy with all its corruption, decadence, and power fights.
The book feels like a giant prolog for the things to come.
TLDR part, before review:I recommend to read First Law from Book 1 (The Blade Itself) to Book 3 (Last Argument of Kings) as soon as possible.
I perceived some reviewers that only read the first book only rated lower ratings, because the story at the end of Book 1 is not finished.Now, the review...I praise this low-fantasy series, because the unusual POV characters.
Most of the POV characters in this book usually pictured as villains in other stories.
And there are interesting minor characters too.Despite the tons of brutality in the story, there are some humours found here and there.
