https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/329735.The_Big_Six
This is probably my least favourite Ransome and I've never previously been able to work out why.
It's no fun being hounded when you're innocent and even when Dick and Dot turn up, it's still quite hard going for the Death and Glories.2.
But - probably because it's so out of place in Ransome's books - I think this sidelining of Dot has always slightly annoyed me.It's a shame, really, because in other respects it's a Ransome so therefore it's brlliant.
Definitely worth reading, as are all Ransome's books, even if it's not my favourite.
A breathlessly exciting detective story with children in peril, reputations in the balance, and injustice on all sides. One of Ransome's best, with his effortless handling of the detail of life in and around boats, as well as the depiction of a childhood world that impinges on the adult one, and in serious ways, but still manages to keep a separate sense of fun and magic.
Dorothea, with her wild imagination, and Dick, with his new interest in photography team up to help their friends prove their innocence and catch the real culprit.While I will always love the Swallows the most of all of Ransome’s characters, I really grew to love the Death and Glories in this book.
Just like all the other Swallows and Amazons books, this one celebrates what kids can do on their own and proves that they should be taken just as seriously as adults.
With the help of Coot Club members, Tom, Dick, and Dorothea, they start their own detective agency to track down the real culprits.As always, I adore this interesting story, full of nautical knowledge and adorable characters.
Young Pete is one of the most hilarious characters, because he is SUCH a child.
Just like a real child with silliness and seriousness and his own mistaken ideas about the little world he lives in.
The things he says are just so boyish and REAL.
A little boy actually says just those sorts of things.
When I was a child, books by Arthur Ransome were the kind of children's books that adults thought that children ought to read, but which I found rather boring.
Arthur Ransome's books were great for children who liked messing about in boats, but the closest thing we got to that was paying an exorbitant fee for half an hour rowing round the island in Joburg's Zoo Lake, or the slightly less crowded Germiston Lake.
I don't remember reading it as a child.
Though it takes a long time for the children to identify the suspects, that is not the main problem.
One of the most delightful things about Ransome's stories, at least to me as a homeschooling mother, is how understanding the adults are about letting the kids go off and have adventures.
We've listened to this whole series on audiobooks (read by the delightful Alison Larkin), and usually, the kids and I are spellbound the whole time, not wanting the book to end.
Here, I wished I were just reading it aloud to them so I could skip about 100 pages and get to the end bit.With that said, there are scenes here to delight.
Growing up the Swallows and Amazons series by Arthur Ransome was one of my favorite series. When I decided to re-read it as an adult I was worried that it would not stand the test of time. I was delighted to find that in general found it just as enjoyable now as I did as a child. The characters, writing style and adventures are great and I truly enjoyed the series.
a real page turner, who done it???? had to keep reading to find out - most in one afternoon!!
A really fun read.
O - LDPlaceholder
The title refers to the six Coot Club characters who spend their holiday together: Dorothea, the imaginative writer-child, and her natural scientist-photographer brother Dick, who once again vacation with Mrs.Barrable in Horning; Tom Dudgeon, the wildlife-protecting village doctor's son and club leader, and Joe, Bill, and Pete, the three local friends whose boatbuilding families permit them to spend their holiday aboard their boat "Death and Glory."While THE BIG SIX is a follow-up to (#5) THE COOT CLUB and so is best read after THE COOT CLUB, this one varies from the previous books in the centrality of the issue of guilt and innocence.
Well, I've been impressed in the past books at how, given the time they were written, Ransome portrays spunky, smart, daring girls.
While Ransome shows her coming up with some of the best ideas and being just as willing and daring as the rest, he has other characters praise Dick instead and even Mrs. Barrable (whom I liked in the previous book) tells Dot she can't participate at one point because she's a girl.
That's silly." I'm not sure what Ransome was up to here, because I know his favorite character in his books was Nancy Blackett, the most daring, capable, and outrageous of them all!
Ok, we are now reading aloud this "Swallows and Amazons" book in the evening!
We are once again in the Norfolk Broads (rivers), but this time detective work is the order of the day to prove that the "Death and Glories" are NOT the ones casting off boats in the middle of the night.
There were just two or three (or four or five!) too many times when the "Death and Glories" are accused of casing off boats.
So, read the book, but don't expect a whiz-bang trip the entire time as we got when we read "Swallows and Amazons".
This book is a most enjoyable mystery story, featuring the characters from the earlier book in the series, "Coot Club".
As always, Arthur Ransome creates wonderful characters, and in this story captures a particular dialect subtly and effectively (not being British in 1940, I can't swear to the accuracy).The book refers back to earlier stories in this series, so readers will get the most out of it if they have read those earlier books.
However, I'd think a reader picking this book up without having read the other books would still find it an enjoyable read.
The Big Six returns to the Norfolk Broads and we meet again most of the cast of Coot Club (no S&As in this story).
In fact this follows directly on from the actions of Coot Club where a boat was set adrift by one of the club members (for good reason, of course).
This time dozens of boats are being set adrift and the blame is being placed squarely on the Death & Glory boys (who didn't do it, of course).
The Ds, along with their Coot Club friends all turn detectives and set out to track down the true perpetrator of these terrible deeds.
This one captures the pleasures of the outdoor life to children, the idea of wrongful accusation and a nice little detective story with young Dorothea in charge.
The story of all of this is engaging but it comes at the expense of the absorbing evocation of place and time that mark out Ransome at his very best.
As I've said earlier; I don't read these to re-capture my childhood or even to pretend to a childhood I never had, but to give me a flavour of something that was there in essence in my formative days and which I have constantly sought to regain ever since.
I enjoyed the book, though I can't say I would be in any hurry to read it again. I don't know whether it was spoilt for me or improved by having seen an old TV series which followed the story very closely and captured the characters and the atmosphere very well - knowing what was going to happen took much of the suspense out of reading what was quite a long-winded, slow-moving, and repetitive book. A promising start - it's the first Arthur Ransome book I've read and I wouldn't be averse to reading some more.
The Coots and the D's return as they gather evidence to clear their good name. Not as exciting as some of the other Ransome books, but there's plenty of ingenuity shown as the detective work turns to trapping the real culprits in the act. Note references to flash powder and old-fashioned cameras might be a little confusing to kids used to digital cameras, though there is an interesting description of the children developing photos in a makeshift darkroom. Includes some terribly un-PC comments by current standards.
This sequel to _The Coot Club_ features Bill, Joe, and Pete (the "Death and Glories"), who are accused of setting boats loose from their moorings. With the help of Dick, Dorothea, and Tom Dudgeon, and some clever detective work, they are able to discover the real culprits. Not as refreshing a story as _The Coot Club_, but still evocative of the Norfolk Broads and full of sailing and boating details.
I found and read the Swallows and Amazons series in my early 20s. I am only sorry I did not find them earlier. Stories of the family's summer adventures are beautifully written, and encourage responsible and creative living. Self reliance, intelligent reasoning skills, and strong imagination with these children provide an excellent backdrop for this series of books, as well as strong roll-models for any youngsters reading them.
With the same cast as in Coot Club this is a welcome return.Once again the characters have almost equal billing although perhaps Dick and certainly Dot are in the lead. Detective work in finding out who is casting boats adrift and stealing.The title is supposedly derived from the Big Five as Dot explains. Being a group of top Scotland Yard detectives but there is six of them.
The second half is much freer from the flaws. There is one quick but nasty other problem--a child describes a photographic negative, of a face, with the N-word. Other than that -It was wonderful.Read it during the run of 'The Borrowers'!
Not my favorite, but still a decently good story. It was frustrating that through the majority of the book, no one believed the Death and Glories, but but I knew it would come right at the end (what kind of children's book doesn't?). Not sure if this constitutes spoilers...
A little short on the sailing angle that makes this series so addictive, but nevertheless, a marvelous evocation of a time and place that is, perhaps, irrecoverable; reading Ransome is always like reliving the greatest summer getaway you ever had.
The Big Six by Arthur Ransome (2001)
I loved all the Swallows and Amazons books as a child. The Big Six has the cleverest plot.
A frustrating story. Not AR's best.
Not my favourite, but at least it's not Peter Duck.
Ninth of the Swallows & Amazons. Back to Norfolk, the Coots and the Ds, and a hilarious detective story.
Continuing my re reading of Arthur Ransome's wonderful books. The fact that I have reread these many a time since childhood and am now nearing 50 says it all really.
