https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22088217-sink-em-all
If you can handle the racism (which is challenging) it’s a must read for any serious WWII historian.
Best book about World War II that I have ever read.We are fortunate to have the opportunity to read Admiral Lockwood’s experiences.
According to my pop, who was a sailor and also fought in World War II, Admiral Lockwood was a true hero.
He also had an uncanny ability to write a narrative of how it was fighting on a submarine.
He worked tirelessly for his men and his country and accurately predicted the future.This is a book that a reader cannot put down.
You won’t want any coffee brakes while reading this extraordinary and wonderful narrative.Jeannie Walker (Award-Winning Author)
Told as only a "submarine" couldAbsolutely riveting, first hand stories of actual submarine patrols taken from official records. Adm Lockwood told the stories, injecting his views and personal experiences, which lend authenticity and authority to this history. I couldn't put it down.
Great World War II story of submarines in the PacificAfter reading the story you must have great admiration and respect for all those young men that went down under the sea and are very dangerous position with many giving their lives so that we can live as we do today
Into the BreachMy father never spoke about his time in the Marines fighting for our way of life half a world away, but as I have become a student of WW II, I now truly understand why his generation is called "The Greatest Generation." It was because of the self sacrifice of all the men of the armed forces, and the ones who truly were the only things between us and the Japanese.
It was the men and the boats that gave America the time it so badly net to gear up to fight the war after the devastation of Pearl Harbor.
This book is a excellent inside view of submarine operations in the Pacific Theater.
Sink ‘Em All, a narrative of the U.S. submarine war in the Pacific during World War II, is part of the “Uncommon Valor” series, a re-release of out of print books that have largely been forgotten, but are important sources of historical information written by those who lived through and made the history. The author, Vice-Admiral Charles A. Lockwood, U.S. Navy (Retired), was the Commander Submarines, Pacific Fleet (COMSUBPAC), during the war. As such he was intimately familiar with the strategy
Sink ‘Em All, a narrative of the U.S. submarine war in the Pacific during World War II, is part of the “Uncommon Valor” series, a re-release of out of print books that have largely been forgotten, but are important sources of historical information written by those who lived through and made the history.
Lockwood takes us through the rest of Wahoo’s war patrol, as again and again the calculatingly aggressive Morton deftly maneuvers the Wahoo into successful attack positions, followed by rapid retreats.
Lockwood followed each loss with what post-war American and Japanese records tentatively concluded may have happened.
This is the bible for the submarine warfare in the Pacific during World War Two. Had no idea our sub sand and damaged over 10 million tons of Japanese shipping and men of war.
The final chapters, 21 and 22 were much too long.
Before these chapters, the story is well told with an excellent chronological order.
Not sure if it was him or the original publisher trying to fill up pages.
It could have been cut down in half and still be insightful.Four and-a-half Stars to Admiral Lockwood The new publisher gets three stars for not proofreading their product.
Detailed and Definitive, and a Great ReadSink ‘Em All provides details of the men, the submarines, the equipment, and the missions of US submarines in the Pacific Ocean during World War II. While all of the detail and statistics are there, it is an easy read because of the human stories, including both the tragedies and the humor. There is probably no better book to really understand how and what these courageous few did to so much to win the war.
I'm not sure why I decided to read this book. The book provided me with a first-hand look at the life of a submariner. I remember watching a TV program called "Silent Service" many years ago. There is quite a bit of repetition, and the recounting of enemy tonnage sunk becomes numbing after a while.Life, and especially death, at sea can be frightening. I am glad I did not have to serve in the submarine service.
A must read for anyone who is interested in WWII history or submarines. Written by the Admiral who was COMSUBPAC it tells not only of the actions of the various boats throughout the war but of the problems faced with procurement of everything from ammunition to finding places to berth the boats as advanced bases were opened. A good read that has enough action sequences interspersed to hold the interest of even those (like me) who are most interested in the battles waged by the subs
If you want a good overview and detail of what each boat was doing in the timeframe of the war, this is it. I am glad I read this one before I read USS Seawolf: Raider of the Pacific. https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3... It is as complete and as dry as a "Reporting, Admiral!" yet glad I read it. I never knew about the total intertwining of the boats, the torpedo problems, and the tactics development. Required reading for any WWII Submarine buff.
Excellent narrative memoir of the submarine war in the Pacific from the man who fought it. Admiral Lockwood never fails to place the final credit for the effort on the submarine commanders and crews. He also notes each time a sub was "missing, presumed lost". Given the size of the USN Submarine Service, Admiral Lockwood would have known each sub, each commander and some of the crews.
Absolutely superb bit of history written by the Commander of Submarine Forces Pacific with the details of his viewpoint on the waging of war by those forces against Japan, as well as the impact of the War in the Atlantic on the War in the Pacific. Clearly a man proud of what was achieved by the men in his command, an impact that was tremendous for the few vessels and men actually involved.
Great read!As submarines are an "unseen" defensive weapon, I had little knowledge of their contributions during the big war. Thankfully this record of the men and the machines sheds a wonderful light on the history of this valuable naval tool and the brave men who made them work.
Intersting book to readHas some interesting historical points. Recommended reading for history buffs. Written from the point of view of someone who was deeply involved in the nuts and bolts part of the submarine war in the Pacific during WWII.
WwII history in the 1st person.I like to read history, especially when the author Isn't just a writer but a participant. Lockwood's book presents the stories of the submarine service from the commander's role. Well written and packed with details. Great book.
Good history of submarines in the PacificWell written history of the submarine service in the Pacific in WW2. The were many problems, as well as successes. All are covered by a man who was on the front line, in charge and in the know. Well done.
Excellent WWII Pacific historyA detailed history of submarine actions in the Pacific by its commander. Many details of actions, weapons disappointments and ultimate success. Incredible bravery and tragedy that characterizes war.
DecentA somewhat interesting book about US navy submarine warfare in the Pacific is hurt a bit by the stodgy way it's written. While Lockwood gets his point across, his writing style leaves a bit to be desired.
Excellent !Incredible insight to WWII history. There's always the chance that a first person account of history will be "tooting" there own horn, but Adm Lockwood makes you feel you are right there with him during the events.
Excellent factual reading of Submarine Warfare.This book is filled with anecdotes of actual battles between American Submarines and the Japanese. Anyone studying this particular part of WW2 it is a must read.
Gripping!Admiral Lockwood provides an in depth look into the Silent Service of WW2 that should be read by every American.
Good historical read about submarine warfare during WWIIWell written book providing not only insights into the war and the war fighters but command decisions as well.Good read
MY FATHER WAS A WW2 SUBMARINER My father was a ww2 submariner and this book has given me a better understanding of what he went through.
Mediocre, out of date.Two stars because it is terribly out of date. Written from a flag officers perspective. Patronizing to Reservists and enlisted personnel.
Outstanding!Extensively researched by the author, continuity and chronological order excellent! Lovers of military history should read this book! Hats off to the author!!
Great book.This is a excellent book for those interested in the history of the submarine force in the Pacific during WW2.
Great submarine historyI really enjoyed this book by the man who commanded all Pacific fleet subs in WW HI. It is action as much as history and is good on both counts
Good book, well-written. Just not worth all those pages to get to the meat of the story.
