https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11746513-explosive-eighteen
I read Smokin' 17, and until the last chapter of the book, SWORE that I'd no longer be running out to get the hardcover edition of another Stephanie Plum book as soon as it was released, Instead,I'd be looking for the paperback at one of the used bookstores I frequent...I love Janet Evanovich's writing style, her dialogue is hilarious, the characters are great, and reading the latest installment is like going home to visit with old friends -- well, old friends that NEVER change-- but still a fun read.
After being teased that she might make a decision in 18, I let my small curiosity overshadow my intellect.Remember back in the day of the early awesome plum books, where Stephanie felt BAD for kissing Ranger when she was dating Morelli?
Her mom is a lush, Steph is a whore, Ranger has no sack, Joe lost his possessive balls too, Lula still thinks too much about food, but she at least strives to be better...sometimes.
I like Stephanie Plum, I really do, but this series has failed to make any forward progress for at least ten books now. It's the same story over and over (and over) again. It's getting kind of pathetic that Stephanie can't pick a man. And we know that Lula's fat, and wears tacky clothes, and eats more than most circus animals... We don't need constant reminders. Please, please, please add something fresh to this series to keep the reader interested!
but in all honesty, this was a hysterical edition in the series.I read it about 5 years ago but still have vivid memories of many character escapades.
And this is one of them.Reading about Stephanie Plum's inability to accurately describe someone in a picture she saw briefly is pure gold.
For those who haven't read the series, Joyce is a fellow PI and former girlfriend of Stephanie's on/off again relationship with Joe Morelli.I think I stopped here with this book and still have the last 4 or 5 to catch up on.
So if you've never read the series, don't start with this one.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I love the Stephanie world, I really do.However - after 18 books a lot of things are starting to get very old.
Her common sense and incapability to do her job go hand in hand.Let's take the newest book for example shall we?Stephanie is chasing after a purse thief.
And then he continues stealing her car until she's forced to trade it in for a different one because he has the keys to her RAV4.Also, the whole "I can't ask Ranger help because he'll see me as weak" thing is past its prime.
Problem is, I love both Morelli and Ranger.
I used to lean more toward Morelli, but lately he seems sort of apathetic towards any relationship with Stephanie.
Then do another series to find the other guy a freaking awesome woman.*************************I'm really hoping for some man resolution in this one.
I loved this series with a passion until a few books ago.
I used to wait anxiously for the next book in the series.
And why did I love her years ago and now roll my eyes?
Or just choose Morelli and give us a couple of juicy books in which he teaches her to shoot and gives her babies.
I liken this series to an original document that you print out all new, and fresh, and perfect.
It's old and it's tired and as much as you used to love it, it's time to let it go and start a new, original, document.
And while we're on that subject I'm going to go on record and say that I adore Morelli, consider myself a Babecake, but I feel that although I thought differently at the beginning of the series, at this point Joe is not the right man for Stephanie anymore.
I enjoyed this book just like I have enjoyed all the others. I find them entertaining and laugh out loud funny.It doesn't seem to bother me, as it does others, that the character Stephanie Plum is sleeping with more than one man at a time. She's young, not in a permanent relationship and FICTIONAL.
I'm always adding books to my "to-read" list, which is so long that if I stopped adding books today, I'd still have three years of books on it.
However, last time I was there I found this little number by Evanovich.
I swore off the Stephanie Plum books a few numbers ago, but this one...
Naturally, everyone's curious what happened, but it takes a few days to find out.Of course, the usual complaints apply to this book: no forward character motion.
I knew that going in, but with the two or three year break, they were less annoying than they would have been.Rounding up to two inept stars.Cross posted at http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2013/0...["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I was beginning to not like ,myself so much. The honest confusion of loving two men was giving way to something that felt a little like unhealthy self-indulgence. Not liking herself too much? Well, Stephanie, join the club! According to the reviews, nobody is liking you too much anymore. And, the triangle thing has gone on way too long. At this point, they are basically a menage.Me? I'm kind of apathetic towards her at this stage. I still like the books, but they aren't magical or anything. Mor
I was beginning to not like ,myself so much.
The honest confusion of loving two men was giving way to something that felt a little like unhealthy self-indulgence.
Not liking herself too much?
According to the reviews, nobody is liking you too much anymore.
And, the triangle thing has gone on way too long.
I still like the books, but they aren't magical or anything.
More like an old rerun of Friends.
It will make me smile, but it's not going to stick with me later or make me think deep thoughts.
I'm definitely not going to be blown away.
Stephanie Plum is getting more and more bad-ass.
If you really want to enjoy it, try the audio version.
She gets the voices perfectly.Reread June 2016.
Never underestimate a woman who feels threatened.Reread June 2018 — when this story begins its not one of my favs, but it quickly picks up.
(At least for this book) Every time Steph needs him he is there to rescue her or help without placing judgement.
As for Morelli—he just wants her to stay home and wait for him to have time for her.
Plus, we all know he’s dating other women.
‘Dog play dates?’ Yeah, right!
I can always count on this series to lighten my mood. put a smile on my face and laugh out loud multiple times. I love this rag tag group of friends and family, they never let me down. Guaranteed to have a good time just when I need one. :)
For the whole series Stephanie and Lula have bungled along.For a moment I thought there would be some sort of character development.
There's nothing glaringly obvious but it sure looks like we're pushing to (view spoiler)[ Morelli.
(hide spoiler)].This round I could honestly couldn't care about the crime and mystery, and I was really interested on the character relationship front with Ranger and Morelli.
Seriously, I don't think he would be happy to know that Stephanie is (view spoiler)[sleeping with Ranger.
Looks like there seems to be no real plans for improvement on Stephanie's front either.Can't begin to say disappointed I was.
Bail bond enforcer, Stephanie, returns from a disastrous Hawaiian trip, and swears off men as a result.
Plenty of disastrous escapades ensue, cars disappear, the romantic tension mounts as Stephanie tries to say "no," dumb bad guys pull crazy stunts, lots of junk food is consumed, and the hamster continues to hide in his soup can - it's all there and, once again, entertained me immensely for a few hours!Nothing new here, but loads of fun!
*Heavy Sigh* Just okay...this needs to be over soon, it's gone on way too long. Pick Joe already Stephanie, although after all you've put him through I don't know why he still wants you. A few laughs, but a lot of the same old same old, and unless Janet Evanovich comes up with a new plot line, this series will be dying a slow, painful death. I will see it through to the end, mostly to see what happens to Joe than any other character, and hopefully I won't be bored to tears in the process.
Two Stephanie Plums in a year! Crazy!
Well, that was incredibly disappointing.
I get that when reading this kind of series it is going to be repetitive.
It's a comfort thing - formula is good because you know what you're going to get.
Yet after 22 books (18 novels, 4 novellas), you expect /some/ character development.
Like many others, I want Stephanie to just choose a guy already or just accept that she is a two guy girl.
Between him and Morelli, he's the better choice because at least he doesn't treat her like as much of a child as Joe. Which brings me to the infantilisation.
All the stuff is there to make it a good story but there is no spark (or fizzle) between the characters that we used to get in the earlier books (1-12).
Yeah all of the Ranger fans have wanted Steph to hook up with Ranger again but this time it was just sex between them and none of the fun affectionate, chemistry that used to exist between them.
More time was spent on describing Lula’s wardrobe and eating than on an actual storyline.
There were also several mistakes in the characters and setting of the story.
I'm stuck between a 3 and a 4 star rating.On one hand, all my old complaints still stand firm.
She has got to start putting more time into this series.
They all just seem so rushed and like she's not TRYING anymore.But!
I have to say that I have been waiting for (view spoiler)[Morelli and Ranger to finally come to blows (hide spoiler)].
That makes me want to bump it up.
Plus I laughed a bit more in this one then in the last two...
oh and man, those are two hot men.
Would have liked to hear more about the whole Hawaii thing, would've been even better for it to be a main story. Ranger vs. Morelli show down, maaan I'd love to see that. But, alas, it was still fun.
As you can tell from my rating, I found this book to be terribly disappointing.I love Ranger, and I hate how Evanovich turned him into nothing more than a booty call for Steph, who is still too immature to deal with her feelings.
Even more immature than she was in 17, or earlier books.I think Steph was stronger and smarter in OFTM than she has been portrayed in the last 5 books.
Since 12, all characters have taken a nose dive into adolescent silliness, I'm thinking to bring in the teenybopper audience.
Spoilers!I really thought we'd have some romantic resolution in this book. But it's the same old formula she stumbles through things, gets herself into trouble, and doesn't decide anything about the men and leaves you hanging with thinking "maybe in the next book". Please Ms. Evanovich have some character development/ growth! I'll give the series one more book to improve then I am done with it. I'd also love to see Stephanie get better at her job - going to the firing range, taking a self defense class- something!
Explosive Eighteen is a part of a brilliantly hilarious series featuring Stephanie Plum and her incredible sidekicks.I am unhappy with this book.
In the past, he’s been a gambler, a womanizer, a philanderer, a card cheat, and I’m pretty sure he once had a romantic encounter with a duck.As with all of the other books in this series, Stephanie waffles with the attraction and indecision between her lust of Morelli and Ranger.
And when he made love, his brown eyes dilated totally black.Lula is one of my most favorite characters of ANY book that I have read.
I recommend this book to those reading this series.
I have been greatly disappointed by Janet Evanovich's work with Stephanie Plum's character since book 9 when Stephanie, Lula and Connie went to Las Vegas and Lula was on the meat diet.
Since then the books have become extremely formulated, predictable, lacking character growth, and boring.
I nearly put Explosive Eighteen into this same grouping, but was saved by Stephanie coming very close to choosing Morelli over Ranger for a long term serious relationship.
She can't buy the same tools Ranger has to pick locks?
To Ms. Evanovich: Please have Stephanie pick a guy (I choose Morelli), get engaged, get married, get pregnant, have the baby, etc.
I really couldn't get into this one. At first, I really thought the author realized that the same old formula and indecision between the characters was becoming absurd and tiring, but obviously not. The plot was slow and half way through the book I didn't care. It took me less than six hours to read this book due to the enormous margins. There was less humor in this book than in her previous novels- more than a bit disappointing. Thank goodness the library buys these books do I don't have to!
I love Morelli, Ranger, Lula, Grandma Mazur, Connie, Vinnie, the Burg, and everything and everyone connected to Stephanie's weird, weird world.
Not so much.Morelli, on the other hand, is everything a woman could want in a husband, and Stephanie needs to wake up!
Of course, a circumspect Stephanie Plum is a bit of an oxy-moron, but still.
Otherwise...well, can we say "Bimbo," boys & girls?Overall, though, these are small complaints for a series of books that still, after all this time, makes me laugh so loudly & so often.
Stephanie Plum is a tramp. I was sitting on the porch in my rocking chair, whistling to myself as I read a steamy scene between Steph and Morelli moaning and praying to whoever was listening to drop a Morelli in my arms as well. I flipped to the cover to admire the intricate swirls of the title Juicy eighty five. And then it hit me.My hands were wrinkled and the reason for my moans wasn’t the raunchy scene but my old knees. I was dreaming. About reading. This book. Even when. I was ninety years
I was ninety years old.Imagine that.Janet Evanovich gives me a heartburn.
Every time I pick a book from this series, she starts it with -ahem, you better listen guys- “My name is Stephanie Plum...”You’d think the readers would remember what she’s called after seventeen books but hey, doesn’t hurt to make extra sure eh?“I live in a one bed, one bath apartment.”I know.“My parents live in the burg”Do they?
And I won’t when I’m ninety years old and can’t even get up to pee.
I have no answer save that after reading 18 Stephanie Plum books, I want so badly for something to happen relationship-wise between her and either one of her guys that I delude myself into believing character growth is somehow still possible in the Evanovich world.
Now, given the explanation (view spoiler)[ of Stephanie offering the extra ticket to Morelli but he was too busy/ going by herself/Ranger showing up/chasing bad guys/Morelli surprising both/great fight scene between Ranger and Morelli (hide spoiler)]THAT sounds like a GREAT book!!
So I've been a Plum fan for over a year now, and I will admit, somewhere around number 12/13, my interest in these books did head downhill, but only just a little.
Because I LIKED this book.
Yes, Stephanie isn't getting to be a much better bounty hunter; yes, Lula still talks about food all the time and wears too tight clothes; and yes, I do realize that there has been very little character development, most frustrating in the area of who will she chose: Ranger or Morelli?
I think everyone's expectations were placed too high...
what made you think it would now?
I really think this series needs to reach an end.
The books are full of the same stuff different title.
I think she needs to pick a guy and wrap it up.
This book was better than the 15, 16 and 17, but it really hasn't been the same since 12.
I keep holding out for it to get back to the magic at the beginning of the series.
In addition to all this, the ebook prices for these books are unreasonable.
Ok. Time to get off my soap box :) I found the book to be a light quick read.
