https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58098.For_colored_girls_who_have_considered_suicide_when_the_rainbow_is_enuf
I didn't like the way it was done in this piece; however there are many [BLACK] authors who have mastered this technique and have done so beautifully and provocatively -- and not just for the sake of showing a character's inability otherwise.I don’t like the word “colored” to describe a person.
For example, the characters Beaux Willie and Crystal, Crystal tells the story.
The ish.
A pivotal work in theatre.
Now that's all types of deep - this idea that language can teach us destruction and prejudice and by deconstructing that language those who have been oppressed can reclaim and enter into the very language that had formerly been exclusive - creating something new entirely.This sentiment reminds me a great deal of the book Rolling the R's which also complicates and obliterates ideas of language, grammar, and syntax.I love reading this while listening to Nina Simone - particularly Four Women.
For Colored Girls who Have Considered Suicide when the Rainbow is Enuf has been the most profound, interesting, mind- blowing books I have come across this year.
One thing I learned from Shange, the author, is the attention to the title of the book.
Upon reading the first three words of the title, "For colored girls..." you assume that the word colored pertains to their skin color, more specifically, black women.
However, upon reading through the poems, none of the characters are known by name.
Each girl is labeled by a color.
Each color serves as a symbolic meaning for each girl.
This is one of those books I refer too a lot. Like written prayers sometimes say things in a way that resonates so well with me, so too does this book of poetry. Ever since I realized there waz someone callt/a colored girl an evil woman a bitch or a nag/i been tryin not to be that & leave bitterness/in somebody else's cup...
I NEED to see this as a production. And I also need to reread it because WOW there are so many layers to it.
However, Shange's motives seem to be to have the characters is more so to have them represent something opposed to having them actually letting them form "whole" personalities.While I did like this choreopoem, I would have to say without actually seeing a visual interpretation of it (be it a theatrical production, the tv movie, or the film adaptation), one could get lost fairly easily.
Without seeing the work in action, I would have just chalked this read up as an overblown classic, but the visual representation made this piece one of my favorite...movies.
The reading of the text and the viewing of the original play present a sometimes bleek, daunting, view of life, but the expressive hope that looms through much of the poetry offers a vibrant potential for change.
I really enjoy the book, because of the specifics with which Ntozake Shange approaches words.
Another play, which does not have the same depth as Ms. Shange's work, is the Runaways, which was a Broadway production as well.
I really enjoy works this this, and Ntozake Shange does fantastic work in this area.
This play is one of the strongest stories about abuse and discrimination, from almost all aspects that I have had the great pleasure of reading.I have seen many people criticize how the characters were represented, some even claiming that the characters could have taken more “responsibility” for what happened to them, and I am very sure that these people missed one of the messages of the story, that people are flawed, and that sometimes it is hard to leave.
There is also an instance of a mother’s abuse towards her daughter, and this person said that she could once more leave and make her own fortune.
'coloured' (minoritised, othered in their skin, colonised OR vibrant, various, multifaceted) 'girls' (infantilised, sexually exploited and pathologised, excluded from woman/lady OR youthful, spirited, free, pure-hearted) , five Black women… speaking in the safe space of loving affirmation between them, poetising rawness of pain and beauty, passion and exhaustion...No respectability politics.
orange butterflies and aqua sequins… on bodies glowing with femme charms to take their pleasure from men who can't be loved, men who hurt their hearts and utter cheap apologies, men who even destroy their lives.
It was a bit weird to read the stage directions along with the poetry that was being said by these characters, but it was quite easy to read and follow.For colored girls is considered a choreopoem (i.e. there are monologues that also include dance and music) with seven women in different colors speaking to the audience.The seven women are the lady in red, lady in orange, lady in yellow, lady in green, lady in blue, lady in brown, and lady in purple.Some of the poems really spoke to me a lot and the play tackles so many different subjects such as rape, abortion, domestic violence.
In other words, Shange covers a wide range of colored girl emotions.
Considering that this work was first copyrighted back in the 1970's shows that she was probably one of the first to experiment with words and ideas in this manner.
She boldly thrusts words of the street into her piece too which tells me that this well-educated woman was not afraid to tap into the lives of everyday people, especially their raw experiences.
It has touched so many people, not just colored girls or feminists.
Now that it has been transformed into a movie version, this seminal work will without a doubt touch a whole new generation of readers.
I believe every word of this book. It is honest and real and gives a voice to a marginalised but strong set of women. It is definitely one of my favourite books ever. Absolutely a gem of literature.
This book showcases beautifully the experience of African-American females.
While I never can fully understand their experience as a gay white male I feel that I was drawn into their world by Shange's words.
I was able to feel their joy, pain, and suffering.
When a book can resonate and stay with you days after you have read it that is when you know that you have just read something either truly great or truly bad.
This one is squarely in the truly great category that got me thinking about the differences and the similarities between all human beings regardless of their color.
Words that do not truly come to life until you see the theatrical stage version. Life is painfully and joyfully at the same time.Quote:little sally walker, sittin in a saucerrise, sally, rise, wipe your weepin eyes an put your hands on your hipsan let your backbone slip o, shake it to the easto, shake it to the westshake it to the onethat you like the best  lady in purple you're it
Such as the poem that addresses unplanned pregnancy and abortion - "i cdnt have people lookin at me pregnant i cdnt have my friends see this dyin danglin tween my legs...nobody came cuz nobody knew once i was pregnant & shamed of myself." Personally, this choreopoem spoke volumes to the corners of my mind and my heart, that is, the poem and Tyler Perry's movie, "For Colored Girls" off of which this poem is based.
The characters in the movie really brought the stories and issues to life, and, as previously mentioned, these are topics that touch all women, not just colored girls.I give it 5 stars.
Themes - checkCharacters - checkWriting - pretentious as hellCertain words that Shange chooses to spell differently are spoken the same way regardless. I don’t see how one could say could (which she chose to spell as “cld”) any differently than anyone else, whether you are black, white, or green.
I must say I read this play--or is it poetry--or is it dance--every year or two.
Must remember that a film is its own work of art and not expect something it probably won't do--replicate that dream feel of the choreopoem.
I'm not sure, and have no way to know, whether I would have loved the film so much if I hadn't been so familiar with the piece.
No way to know.
I thought they integrated the dream-time and word-drunkenness and tough emotionality of the play into the realism of a film just beautifully.
As with all screenplays (or scripts) that you read, you kind of wonder how it translates on stage.
As I read this, it played out in my mind incredibly vivid.
Especially compared to other plays I've read.
As much as I enjoyed reading this, I can only imagine it's simply transfixing to watch in action.
I'm talking about on a stage, not in a movie.
(I'm slightly prejudiced against film adaptations of books.) Still, I'll probably watch Perry's movie, just because I really want to see this played out.
But most of all, I'd love to see this on stage!
And all the stories are about black women's misery, pain and heartbreak.
I guess it was groundbreaking to tell a black woman's story in the 70s in this fashion.
To be gritty and honest about our lives.
Am I supposed to be intrigued and impressed with a book featuring more of the usual fiction stories of how black women's lives are so awful?
I liked the diversity in the women's life experiences, but the underlying theme was the same in all of them: it sucks to be us.
I wish I liked this more.
3.5 out of 5 stars! ⭐ A really good choreo poem play with some powerful messages. Still, reading it was hard at times due to the strange layout & format. I guess I am just not thatbinto choreopoems, I bet they’re better if yiu see them performed as a play though! But all in all, a very good play! 😊👌🏻📚
3.5 out of 5 stars! ⭐️ A really good choreo poem play with some powerful messages. Still, reading it was hard at times due to the strange layout & format. I guess I am just not thatbinto choreopoems, I bet they’re better if yiu see them performed as a play though! But all in all, a very good play! 😊👌🏻📚
I first read this book when I was about 12 or 13 and loved it. I re-read it in high school and actually was in a performance of it as the Yellow Lady. I could read this over and over, it's beautiful.
TV and film sometimes included scenes with performance pieces like this to show how talentless and clueless a character is.
So many of these poems are about people who seem trapped in way that I do not feel trapped, and that is another point of alienation.I give the piece full credit for being heart-felt, passionate, sometimes compellingly expressed (though sometimes not), and providing a glimpse into the kind of lives that produce an alienation and anger that I simply do not understand, but then that is the problem.
I picked this book up because I needed to read a book that is also a play for a reading prompt, and because this author was recommended to me by one of my friends.
The first time I picked the book up, I read for awhile, and got distracted, as I frequently do with at least half the books I read.
Today I picked it back up, while I have been concurrently reading This Will be My Undoing by Morgan Jerkins, and suddenly much more of what Ntozake and the other women on stage with her were saying made sense to me.
My goodness, this book really spoke to me.
I would absolutely love to see this performed live.
I can assure you that every single woman in the world could benefit from reading these poems...I haven't experienced any of what was discussed in the poems, but I know that if I live long enough I will - so I took the chance to inform myself.
I recommend this book to all lovers of literature, lovers of life, and lovers of love alike.
"i loved you on purposei was open on purposei still crave vulnerability & close talk& i'm not even sorry bout you bein sorryyou can carry all the guilt & grime ya wanna just dont give it to mei cant use another sorrynext timeyou should admityou're mean/ low-down/ triflin/ & no count straight outsteada bein sorry alla the timeenjoy bein yrself"I don't believe I have ever met a single woman who could hear or read those words and not begin nodding with the harsh realization that we've all been there.
Shange's writing is so lyrical and emotionally honest on its own that I can only imagine the impact of the full dance, the stage, the color, etc.
The writing style was compelling enough for me to give the play 5 stars, though.
The actual reworking of the English language so as to communicate in words created for and by women of color -- as opposed to speaking in the language born out of a racist and sexist culture -- very much enhanced the meaning of the play for me.
I was equally compelled by the power of each woman's story -- each poem was both moving and beautifully written.
this is the most important piece of writing ive ever read in my life
. .somebody/ anybodysing a black girl’s songbring her out to know herselfto know youbut sing her rhythmscarin/ struggle/ hard timessing her song of lifeshe’s been dead so longclosed in silence so longshe doesn’t know the soundof her own voiceher infinite beautyshe’s half-notes scatteredwithout rhythm/ no tunesing her sighssing the song of her possibilitiessing a righteous gospellet her be bornlet her be born& handled warmly.”Profoundly inspired by women’s studies, dance, and her experiences in the Bay Area working and interacting with women poets, writers, dancers, and actors, Ntozake Shange wrote for colored girls who have considered suicide/ when the rainbow is enuf, and it premiered on Broadway in its current form in 1976, making it the second play by a black woman to be performed on Broadway (Lorraine Hansberry’s A Raisin in the Sun is the first).

The writing was puerile and in no way measures up to the high quality of literature you would expect from a book held in such high and critical esteem.
If we measure progressive works and feminist works by cheaper standards,how does that show what we truly think about women?
Probably the very same thing we think when we ignore the fact that women are paid cents on the dollar for rendering the same service(and often better and more efficiently) as a man would.
I think hell is a library in which this is the only book..
