https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1654726.After_Worlds_Collide
It is a marvelous cliffhanger of an ending, leaving the reader wondering just what might have happened to Hendron's other, larger rocket ship, carrying around 400 more prospective colonists; whether any other ships from other countries managed to get away safely; how the 103 are possibly going to survive on this long-frozen, now-thawing world; and, most intriguingly, whether the million-year-old relics scattered about could possibly indicate an ancient civilization...and perhaps alien survivors.
It is difficult to encapsulate the plot of this sequel without giving away any of the book's numerous surprises, so let's just say that before long, Hendron & Company discover that Bronson Beta contains the perfectly preserved remains of five ancient cities, protected inside their hemispherical bubble domes against the absolute-zero cold of the planet's aeons-long journey across interstellar space.
After Worlds Collide seems almost an afterthought compared to When Worlds Collide.
It is not nearly as compelling a novel and may have made a better movie to sequel the WWC movie than a novel.
The story involves more politics and conflict than the science of surviving on a new planet by a small group of barely prepared humans from the USA.
Other nation's groups that made it caused the conflict.
Of course post-apocalyptic survival has been the subject of a legion of SF novels since.
I would have liked to know was a couple of 1930s authors thought about how to do it.
One of the U.S. spaceships has escaped the destruction of earth and landed successfully on the rogue planet of Bronson Beta.
This novel follows the exploration of Bronson Beta by the new "colonists," the discovery of the remains of its past civilization, and the struggles of the community as they make the mental shift from short-term escape to long-term survival.
Aspects of this novel don't flow smoothly as they did in When Worlds Collide.
The reader is tempted to point out that the humans have an entire world to themselves, after all.
Much of the novel is less about life on Bronson Beta than life on Earth.
The fact that all of the survivors (with one notable exception) were white, Caucasian, and hand-picked based on intelligence and scientific knowledge is, of course, at the very least, awkward by today’s standards and, at the most, racist.It would, perhaps, be accurate to call the sequel even more “racist”, although it may also be somewhat unfair.
Not always, though, and while the purveyors of political correctness may take umbrage against this point, it is important to make a distinction between nationalism and racism.The book’s only “friendly” non-white is a Japanese character named Kyto, who is, at the start of the first book, a servant of the book’s main protagonist, Tony Drake.
Wonderfully suspenseful, filled with imaginative and descriptive imagery, and a plot that never stops twisting, this book will definitely hold your interest.I also really enjoyed how the enemy in the story was vanquished! With all those mentally, physically, psychologically and scientifically selected men and women for the voyage, it was an ordinary woman who was the one who literally "cut the head off the snake". I won't say anymore but I thought of what my Mom always said. "Never send a man to do a woman's job!" LOL I wish I could live on Bronson Beta!!!
I liked this one more than the first. More suspense and sense of the unknown once they reached the new planet. The ending felt a bit rushed and abridged.
After that, it's one thing after another until the end of the story.I had one complaint and that's the pontific speeches given by two of the "leaders" of the group.
But then, this was written in 1933, so that may have been the norm for that time.I haven't read the first book since several decades ago (the 50's or 60's?), but I remember when I read this one that it was heads and tails above the first for the young man that I was.
I picked it up again last month and there are things in there I don't remember at all.
And one thing I "remembered" isn't there.In any case, I thoroughly enjoyed reading it again (except for the speeches).
After using some of the smaller atomic tubes of the Space Ark as propulsion for a newly constructed rocket-plane, the explorers find huge domed cities left by the long-extinct Other People...who, it turns out, looked almost exactly like humans of Earth, although, despite several mentions of evolution, no one discusses how this might happen.
Yet Wylie and Balmer will not settle on exactly the great minds must decide; the closest we get is when Tony and Eve at last marry near the end of the book, and there is the notion that he still might have to be loaned to Shirley Cotton, a particularly languorous and voluptuous crew member, for breeding purposes.
This is a must after you've read "When Worlds Collide". Ideally, read this about a year after you finished "When Worlds Collide" so that you'll have time for that novel to settle in your mind and create a place for itself.
Wow! What an incredibly racist book. Also very repetitious. The ending seemed to be more summary. Read When Worlds Collide, but you can skip this sequel. It mostly consists of endless repetition of the same questions.
An entertaining sequel to "When World Collide", and continues right after the first book ended.
They finally send out a scouting party and they find a domed city built by the original inhabitants of Bronson Beta and eventually their lost colony.
It's now a battle between the Americans and the evil Communists for rule over Bronson Beta.
It's a golden-aged science fiction pulp read full of fun and political incorrectness!
The only problem I had was that the end was rushed.
Still a fun read, they don't write them like this anymore!
And I'm no exception.The story chugs along for half of the book and most of the intense action takes place near the end.
In fact, when I was getting near the end, I was afraid this was going to be a cliff-hanger story that would force me to buy the next book to find out what happened.
BUT, the authors wrapped it up fairly rapidly, so I didn't have to buy the next one -- which is good, given the lousy reviews the next one got.Don't get me wrong, the body of the book has some tension throughout, so it's not boring and if you liked "When Worlds Collide", you'll probably want to read this one to see what happens to the survivors after they make the hop to their new home.
Terrific sequel to When Worlds Collide, which left some plot threads unresolved. What happened to the other ships fleeing Earth? What awaits our heroes now? The sense of exploration and wonder is thick, interrupted by...well I'll say no more, only that I wish they had written further sequels to tell us more of this mysterious planet and its erstwhile inhabitants. Leave 'em wanting more I guess.
So so sequelWhere the first book was exciting what with humanity facing an uncertain future with the Bronson planet's coming to destroy us, the sequel is kind of ho hum. A bit mundane since Bronson beta was inhabited at one time, that race choosing to die, but leaving enough behind good the terran castaways. A bit too pat for this reader.
The first book (when worlds collide) was a great read, and kept me intrigued throughout the book. This book was, in my opinion, a step up from the first in the series. Extremely well written, imaginative, and captivating story.
I first read this as a tween in the early 1970s and didn't give too much thought to the political story arc. Re-reading it recently I get the pushback but given when it was written, the details aren't surprising.Would be interesting to see how a good film adaptation would address that detail.
Sequel was almost as good as the first
Not as good as When World's Collide with a rather weak finale.
I thought this was one of the best...next books ever. 1950's syfy, but it is really good, but read "When World's Collide". Mankind at his finest, and his worst.
When the little band from Earth lands, Beta is on its way out.But the coming cold isn't their only worry.
Most worrisome of all, though, is that theirs was not the only ship from Earth to make it to Bronson Beta.
Clarke, after all, had an entire book to talk about one thing; for Wylie and Balmer, it's but one piece of a much larger puzzle.It's a fun adventure and an exciting story and, if it has a flaw, it is that it isn't, in the end, also a little scary.
Of course, the fact that they have just escaped the destruction of their home world and are now colonists on a new one hasn’t changed their “front and center” ideologies one bit…and I found that very difficult to believe.The second drawback is the extremely abrupt ending of the story.
It isn’t unsatisfying, but it did feel as if the writers were in a hurry to wrap things up and move on to something else.Was there ever an intent to continue the story of the colonists?
I actually enjoyed this book more than When Worlds Collide. The struggles humans face on the new planet are interesting.
Unusually for a novel of this time, the weaker sex (tongue firmly in cheek) are given important roles in the tale.
Some reviewers may call it racist, but having read a few older novels I find it amusingly quaint.I do think that books such as the "Collide Series", for want of a better expression, are an important part of the Sci-Fi heritage and salute their authors for their vision and accept their lack of political correctness as part of the package.
You will recall that our heroes left Earth in ‘When Worlds Collide’ and landed on a brand new planet which has managed to move itself into (more or less) Earth orbit following the destruction of Earth and the Moon by a wandering rogue gas giant.This novel follows what happens next and jolly interesting and exciting it is too (as Lady Cynthia would say).Professor Hendron, the brilliant, if wildly verbose, scientist who masterminded the flight to Bronson Beta has been exhausted by the stress of leadership but attempts to continue.The colonists (composed almost entirely of White American good breeding stock) begin to set up a colony and sow crops.
I loved the first book so much and I wanted to find out what happened to the people I had learned to care so much about.We left off at the end of the first book with the survivors having landed on their new home planet of Bronson-Beta.
Only a slim chance of freedom and survival keeps them going.I absolutely loved this story and can hardly wait to read book three.
It is certainly so in the case of this series of books.
I will certainly check in, again, after I read book three.
Not sure.This tale had sexism in spades, racism in bucketfuls and elitsm in even more buckets.I remember the film W.W.C from way back and thought it cool at the time and a typical Hollywood affair where the americans prevail and save us all, in this case the species of man.I was blissfully unaware of a sequel/follow up story and almost wish I hadn't found it.It again, to me, was a bit preachy with the religious tone and bible quotes.
Also short, this novel is more nationalism than science fiction, though it did correctly line up the future opponents of the USA.The first part here echoes and continues the previous story - landing on the new planet, setting up camp, exploring, finding lush farmland and remnants of a former civilization.
Then a plane flies overhead, and the novel kicks off in a different direction.Russian, Japan and Germany banded together to build a separate ark, and from the moment they landed, they started investigating the former civilization.
While the people are united, the story isn't really settled, leaving room for a future sequel.One review I read indicated this story was published in serial form.
At the conclusion of Philip Wylie and Edwin Balmer’s classic sci-fi novel When Worlds Collide (1933), the Earth is spectacularly destroyed in a collision with the rogue planet that had been dubbed Bronson Alpha.
It is a marvelous cliffhanger of an ending, leaving the reader wondering just what might have happened to Hendron’s other, larger rocket ship, carrying around 400 more prospective colonists; whether any other ships from other countries managed to get away safely; how the 103 are possibly going to survive on this long-frozen, now-thawing world; and, most intriguingly, whether the million-year-old relics scattered about could possibly indicate an ancient civilization … and perhaps alien survivors.
I found the characters and their reasoning a bit arrogant and long-winded at first, though I've come to conclude that this was to be expected given the era in which the book was written.
I also read this book without having first read "When Worlds Collide" so I feel that I probably missed out on some important character-building information.
In the end I enjoyed the story despite the character issues, and the writing style did grow on me.
I want to know what happened to them after the other faction was defeated, how their society evolved, what further wonders and challenges they faced.
Satisfying sequel to the excellent When Worlds Collide.
The intellects of Wylie and Balmer are engaged in the pursuit of what it might be like for humans to survive and begin to forge a civilization on a new planet.
Insight into human behavior is needed for this task and it could have come at any period from great authors.
Will humans continue to fracture, divide and fight wars of domination or can we all get along here on this new planet?
What might an advanced civilization have left behind in their own quest for survival of a cataclysmic event?
