https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33059.Cathedral
While the book does feature the idea the terrorists are unknowingly playing into the hands of a British intelligence officer who is trying to discredit the IRA with America (Which makes this yet another fictional story about a terrorist plot that is some type of false flag operation.), it’s somewhat eerily prophetic in that it was a large scale terrorist attack in the US that generally did sour the public on supporting the IRA.DeMille fans should recognize some early versions of characters.
The paranormal aspect was completely unnecessary, preventing me from giving it 5 stars.
It’s a nice set-up for a major action movie of the 1980’s and for me it was a welcome change from the post 9/11 middle eastern brand of terrorism.I’ve been a fan of Nelson DeMille’s work for a number of years now and purposely sought out this one which I had just not quite gotten around to yet.
It’s an older DeMille novel, first published in 1981 and not as humorous as his later works.
Nevertheless, it was nice to read this one, another solid novel by Nelson DeMille.
As I read the book, I continued to note how different the story is, pre-9-11, from more current writings.I also compared this book to The Marching Season by Daniel Silva, another story about the Troubles in Northern Ireland.A former member of the Provisional IRA, turned reformer and member of Amnesty International Maureen is in New York to speak upon the occasion of St. Patrick's Day. On the day itself, she is standing in front of St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York along with the British Counsel General, reviewing the parade up Fifth Avenue, when a struggle breaks out among the parade participants, distracting viewers and police alike.
This was my least favorite Nelson DeMille book.
It started out well; DeMille was able to romanticize the IRA and their cause to hook the reader before it moved to "present day" NYC.
And they all have Irish names...Fitzgerald, Finnegan, Flynn...it was near impossible to keep up with them and try to remember which one was the IRA terrorist and which was the NYC investigator.
Top that off with a few of the characters also having Irish aliases, and it was beyond frustrating.Next, the deadline of 6:03 am seemed so close...and yet those few hours dragged on for about 70% of the book.
I wanted to like this book -- because DeMille is my leading guilty pleasure these days.But I couldn't finish it.
I never want to read about the color green again.Take your leprechauns, your "Saint Paddy's" day, and your IRA with guns ...
on each side of the argument -- Irish cops, IRA, Irish spies, Irish people, Irish standers-by ...
and it's all set in NYC during the St. Patrick's Day parade -- and (no spoiler, it's obvious) they seize St. Patrick's Cathedral -- I mean, COME ON already.
So it's on my "didn't finish it" shelf.
Actually Cathedral is not very good at all.
Fascinating to witness the development of an author...this is the same man who later writes, and really gets cookin' with Charm School, General's Daughter, and Plum Island.If I had a drink in my hand right now, I would toast men who are so DAMN male and women who are so gloriously female.
Well, a hint is that DeMille's female characters often turn out to be the vicious warriors, after scolding the men who have been amusing us with their vicious war talk.
Cathedral features neither, unfortunately.
The men are watered down, the women are revved up.
4.5 stars. A great read... but, what else would you expect from Nelson DeMille? I loved it!
I didn't think I was going to like this based on the subject matter, but another excellent book by DeMille. An oldie, but a definite must read!
A book about Ireland and a group of IRA who took to hostage taking on a St.Patrick day to negotiate the release of their various relations languishing in various jails in Ireland and Britain.Though there was no dull moment with this book but however I found some areas not too realistic.
It's really the first book I've read that confronted the issues between England and Northern Ireland.
It was also interesting to see the varying responses of the police and politicians, and to follow the process of conflict resolution that followed a course more j tended to make the participants look good than actually honestly address the issues in the most appropriate, logical way.
I thought the author did a good job of thinking through all of the potential complicating factors, and continually introduced them as new twists and turns.
But it an interesting way to come to that conclusion.
In this novel, I.R.A. Terrorists (or Freedom Fighters I guess, depending on your point of view) take control of St. Patrick's Cathedral on St. Patricks day.
The author manages to create the feel of a lengthy siege-- at times forcing the reader to feel the boredom of waiting for the obviously impending assault, the negotiation, etc.
Threaded in and about this melancholy pessismism of the terrorists, who believe that they are going to die for their cause, is treachery and deceit.
However, this is why I gave the game three stars-- at times, the melancholia and tedium of the siege causes the novel to drag.
Great book about an IRA terrorist group that takes over St. Patrick's Cathedral on at the end of the St. Patrick's Day Parade.I had read this book back when I was in high school at the recommendation of my good friend Andrew Cox. Aside from being a great book, it lends itself very well to answering HS English essay questions such as, 'Compare and contrast two characters' or 'If you were stuck on a deserted island with a character from a book you have read, who would it be?' because of the cast of characters, how they interacted with each other and handled the stress of the takeover.
As you always get from DeMille, an exciting, suspenseful read.
It seemed like he really hasn't found his voice yet, as this was one of his earlier books, and the way that the characters are introduced in the beginning was a bit jumbled, rushed and confusing.
But he always is a master at what he does and this book doesn't disappoint.
I was a little confused on Flynn and that whole Whitehorn Abbey thing.
If you've read my other reviews, you know I'm a DeMille fan, especially when it comes to John Corey.
This wasn't a Corey book, but it was classic DeMille!
I thought this was the first DeMille book I read, but I later learned that Mayday was co authored by DeMille and Thomas Block, and I read that one a year before this and liked it.
Anyway, I enjoyed this book quite a bit.
Some scenes have stayed with me all these years, especially the mounted police officer charging up the cathedral steps on his horse as the doors are being closed and barred.
An entertaining read, especially if you like thrillers about the IRA.
I need to put this on my list to re-read.
This is an older Nelson DeMille book that I had missed reading. It dates from 1981 and I enjoyed reading the names of places that I used to know during that era that are long since gone. Marine Midland Bank Building is now called the HSBC Bank Building. Trader Vic's at the Plaza. Lots of Irish bars. History has dated this book. No longer is the proposed destruction of a NYC landmark novel. Terrorism has changed over the past few decades. For me the book bogged down about 60% - 75% through and could have done with some more action.
This story drags and could have been reduced significantly. I never connected to any particular character in part because there were too many point of views and all the males were testosterone-infused, sarcastic, tough guys. The other big issue is the basis of the story and conflict between the Irish, Brits, and States. It just isn't realistic. Oh and this seems to pervade in several of DeMille's stories. For an army guy to use the term automatic pistol that his cops seems to own. Cops aren't given automatic pistols. In fact these are rare--a Glock, S&M, SIG, etc.
DeMille has written a book about the Irish and British problem that many will not want to read because of the story. However, he has written a powerful story about the possibilities of the conflict coming to America and how it is handled with duplicity, double and triple motivations, and some interesting characters. A good book.J. Robert Ewbank author "John Wesley, Natural Man, and the Isms" "Wesley's Wars" and "To Whom It May Concern"
Interesting story but too detailed.
This is one of my favorite political thrillers. The suspense was edge-of-your seat and the characters believable! I've read a few others by deMille and I think this is the best.
Patrick Burke, Maureen Malone, Brain Flynn ( Finn MacCumail), Megan Fitzgerald, Father Timothy Murphy, Harold Baxter, Cardinal (of St.Patrick Cathedral..name not mentioned), Joe Bellini, Inspector Phillip Langley, Major Martin, Captain Bert Schroeder and others..LOCATION..
The terrorist group lead by Brain Flynn , who was born into the heat and hatred against the occupying British of the Northern Ireland, accompanied by his reckless, loyal followers John Hickey, Megan Fitzgerald, Jack Leary and twelve others capture the Cathedral.

"A Miracle of a Book"Ridiculously, honestly, one of the best books I have ever read.
There are many factors, but the primary amoung them is (as Mark Twain says, "The difference between a write word and the wrong one is the difference between the lightning and a light fly") that every word, sentence and page supports its predecessors as well as its successors.
The craft of snappy dialogues, vivid characters with inner conflict, and a perfect blend of timming keeps yourself hard to get off the "Cathedral".The first book that compels me to have a multi - reread.
Plot of this historical novel is based on the Northern Ireland conflict. “Fenian” revolutionaries, with a huge cache of weapons and explosives, take over St Patrick’s Cathedral on St Patrick’s day. I learned that St Patrick’s Day is a huge holiday in NY. The hole thing was instigated by a British secret agent in order to negatively influence American public opinion. Characters were also interesting, but the disaster dragged on a bit for me. Another solid effort by one of my favorite authors.
It Ain't Easy Being Green (Irish)The action and suspense make you feel like you are in a full-Nelson (De Mille). The story captures your imagination and emotions. The plot is logical without being obvious. The characters are fully fleshed out warts and all. The aromas from this Irish stew tantalize the reader. We are going to Ireland soon and do not plan to pack any Orange outfits. Erin Go Bragh.
RivetingFully developed characters . Suspense! The action continually flows, constantly building into the exciting climax...Good Read!In fact, after I finished the last page, I text the title to my friend and suggested she read it.
Vintage DeMille. Very, very good, thriller
Compelling! Riveting! I’m a huge fan of Nelson De Mille and this is one of his best.
The very worst Nelson De Mille book ever. Almost painful but slogged on to the bitter end for a most unrewarding ending.
I always enjoy DeMille's books, and this one was no exception. It was a bit heavy on detail, but the plot was so compelling I didn't mind. This was one hell of a story, a very satisfying read.
