https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/891814.Fires_of_Winter
I know strategy & footwork & proper codes of conduct for battle & all the cool stuff that is un-womanly.DELLA: I still think those vikings will rape us.BREN: Then go sit in a corner & be useless, just like all women who do womanly things for the good of patriarchal society.
GARRICK: She seems rather...shrill.LINNET: Nah, that’s just because her father died last weekend.BREN: I’ll stomp my feet & demand to be treated with privilege solely because my name is Brenna & I’m better than all of you losers who can’t understand why I’m not behaving like a cowardly woman.
2.5 STARSWhen I finished this book, I was feeling like I wasted a day of my life without learning something ....A waste of time
Although Brenna does annoy some friends who have read this book, I liked her.
I love historical romance because I love learning about days gone by, and one of the best ways to learn is with an interesting story to lead you down the path of learning.Garrick is a beautiful man physically, and he was a decent person, but I can't say I thought he was the best hero.
I do like a grovelling (because he deserves it), repentant hero.This book has a really good secondary cast whose stories you care about.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestIf you peruse the bodice ripper lists on Goodreads, you will consistently see two names near the very top the list: Kathleen E. Woodiwiss and Johanna Lindsey. These two authors might not be the best writers in the genre, but they are prime examples of the most lasting and the most successful. I have a love-hate relationship with Woodiwiss's books - sometimes they're on on point, sometimes they miss the point - but I'd never actually read an
Not only do they not honor their agreements with the Celts (who they regard as their enemies because they once kidnapped the leader of their son and held him captive), but the man who was pledged to Brenna - Garrick - hates women and refuses to marry ever again.
I would consider what transpires between Brenna and Garrick rape, because most of the time, sex begins with her begging him or telling him not to.
I would have liked this book more if Garrick had been portrayed as the ruthless, unfeeling man he was & Brenna was portrayed as slightly less childish.
There's just something about the way Lindsey writes, that takes me back into time with warrior heroes and strong, spitfire heroines.
But Lindsey pairs her heroines with these terrible heroes so well.
And I love the way their relationship builds with conflict all the way through.
Brenna is taken as captive and given to Garrick, who hates women.
The conflicting relationship between them was great and I loved every minute of it.
Another fantastic one by JL.Fan of: bodice rippers, captive/captor, almost irredeemable heroes, strong heroines, and great plots?Then check this one out.
He revved me up about as much as this Viking does:One of these days I’m going to have to realize that, in order to enjoy a Johanna Lindsey romance, I need to put on my durrrrrrr face to convince myself that her swiss cheese plots, her slapdash pacing, her schizophrenic bratty heroines, and her cardboard heroes are Teh Awsum.Maybe my expectations are too high for an author who is in the pantheon of the genre with her backlist never out of print.
Maybe I'm irreversibly disappointed with my old high school self for thinking this was good writing.Like other early Lindsey heroines, Brenna was A Snotty Brat.
Ni siquiera voy a perder más tiempo haciendo esta reseña del que perdí leyendo el libro.IncoherenteIncomprensibleIntolerableNo lo recomiendo. Fin
MAJOR SPOILERS(I'm becoming quite the spoiler these days)So when this book started I was seriously thinking  I was expecting an arranged marriage and then vikings attacked and ransacked Brenna's village and took her and several other women hostage. What continued for quite some pages was rape, rape, rape, and wait for it....... Rape. But of course Brenna acted so crazy and was so admired by the chieftain that no one touched her. Now I've read plenty of books with rape, but I was just sitting the
Brenna is still being given to Garrick, as a slave now instead of a wife, but after his father killed or enslaved basically everyone she knew, I was wondering how she would fall in love with him.
Garrick's father freed Brenna.
Garrick's been brooding on his ship while all this was going on and comes home to rescue Brenna after an assassination attempt and in labor.
Said kidnapper hits Garrick on the head knocking him out and kidnapping Brenna...again.
Brenna escapes and is reunited with Garrick to find out he left Selig with good old trusty Yarmille.
It will take nothing but true love to burn through all the hatred and misconstrued circumstances they find themselves in- if they have the courage to learn to trust.Like I said, this book is old school- brutish men, taking what they want with the “big misunderstanding” running the majority of the plot.
(That’s saying a hang of a lot since I cant remember some of the plots and characters of books I read only weeks ago!) Her novels once had a certain kind of thrill, and sad to say, it’s been long gone from her recent releases.
But I've read similar stories where the writer was able to pull it off without focusing too much on rape and adultery.
Sorry, but reading about adultery, rape and slavery is not my idea of a good book during my day off.And now we go to Brenna, the only saving grace of this story.
I appreciated how she handled all the shit thrown at her, and I especially loved the fact that she demanded nothing less than marriage and true love from Garrick.
He frustrated the hell out of me and I hated him, especially when he didn't even believe Brenna when she told him about Cedric.
Whether you are screaming at the Heroine to get some sense, or wanting to put your hands into the pages of the book and slap the Hero the point is you are gripped.
The storylines and writing are great and no matter how you feel about the content the chances are you wont put the book down.My only gripe is that rape is deplorable and I imagine quite painful but yet JL has her Heroine Virgins starting to enjoy it before he is finished?
If she made the rape more realistic the Hero would be totally unredeemable.
3.5 StarsThis was my first Johanna Lindsey story and I can honestly see why she was/is so popular in the historical romance genre.
There were so many aspects of this story that I should have downright hated, and I’ll admit I got frustrated (hulk-smash rage-y, even) over character behaviour on more than one occasion, but at the end of the day I actually liked it more than I didn’t like it, as confusing as that is.
An old school historical/bodice ripper with the requisite feisty heroine, Viking alpha male and throbbing manhood!If you take into account the time is was written (the 80's) it isn't a bad tale just a little dated by today's standards.
This is one of the first Romance books I read, and I tell you it got me hooked.
I now can't seem to get enough of Vikings, Pirates or Highlanders.
;p This book has a great story line full of adventure.
It was entertaining to see them battle it out while their relationship was developing...
Brenna was kidnapped from her home by Vikings, and made a slave.
What follows is quite entertaining.
This book moved very fast and I was in disbelief that it was over when I turned the final page.
An excellent Historical Romance.
Great Job JL...
Loved this book!Brenna es el personaje femenino con más carácter que he leído hasta ahora!Posiblemente el libro que más me ha gustado de Johanna Lindsey junto con el segundo de su misma serie.
This book paints a very different Viking society.
Lady Brenna Carmarham has been raised like a son by her doting father.
Needless to say, this plan backfires, and the Vikings attack her village and take Brenna, her kin and a few other women back to the North as slaves.
Brenna does not accept this situation and defies her master Garrick at every opportunity.I really liked Brenna, but after a few hundred pages I did want to smack her.
All Brenna wanted was to become his wife, which was not allowed as long as she was a slave.
Garrick tries hard to understand Brenna.
He starts with Cordelia, Brenna’s half sister.
I have had no previous research on Vikings and I have not read a lot of Viking themed novels, romance and otherwise, so I am not sure of the historical accuracy.My only concern was the way Garrick treated Brenna at the early stages of their "courtship".
This is why she had a hard time adjusting to her life as a slave.Garrick had been burned by love once when he was young and vowed to never become vulnerable again.
When it comes to his family and his slaves however he is almost tenderhearted, a most fair Master to all.Great characters.
1) I love the cover of this book2) There was soooo much rape.
Nearly every woman in this book was raped.
Now, this is a book about vikings and raping and pillaging is their thing so I wasn't overly shocked.
Many of the raped women liked the experience or at it didn't phase them.
This bothered me a lot.3) Putting the rape (reluctantly) aside...
There was plenty of action outside the bedroom including a bit of intrigue.5) The words "throbbing member" were in heavy use.Overall I liked this book but I wish there was much less rape or at least a different way of demonstrating the consequences.
3.5 stars
Το διάβασα μέσα σε λιγότερες από 24 ώρες και κυριολεκτικά το λάτρεψα! Εξαιρετική ιστορία,που εστιάζει σε μια ιδιαίτερη πλοκή. Πολύ διαφορετική από τα συνηθισμένα -αν και πάντα αγαπημένα- μοτίβα της αγγλικής,και ευρωπαϊκής γενικότερα,αριστοκρατίας που έχουμε συνηθίσει να βλέπουμε σε ανάλογα βιβλία. Κι όμως, εξίσου συναρπαστική κι ενδιαφέρουσα.Η άποψή μου για το βιβλίο στο site "Book City" και στον παρακάτω σύνδεσμο: Φωτιά και πάγος
Di jadikan hadiah buat anak pemimpin mereka, Garrick...Brenna jd budak pemberontak yg justru membuat Garrick jatuh cinta.Dengan setting sekitar tahun 851an, tidak banyak di harapkan kelembutan HR dan cinta yg berbunga2.Kekejaman bangsa Viking (yg saat itu berperang dg bangsa Celtic) di gambarkan cukup detail oleh Johanna Lindsey dengan plot cerita yg tidak membosankan untuk di baca.
[image error]Sulit untuk meletakkan buku ini sebelum selesai membaca nya.
DNF @32%(view spoiler)[when the h, a new slave who has just seen almost her entire household betrayed and slaughtered lusts after her would be rapist/new owner the first time she sees him...I'm out.
When the h asks her rapist if he can keep going because it's just getting good..I'm out When she then thanks the H for raping her because now she knows it doesn't hurt that badly...I'm out.
When the H lets all the women in his household be 'taken' without consent/permission whenever the fancy strikes his 'guests' because they are slaves and have no choice but to submit...
(hide spoiler)] I'm all for a good bodice ripper...but I need SOME believability or..
It's interesting how reading a work at one time in your life versus another can change your opinion.
Another of Lindsey's early books is one of my guilty pleasures (and I don't use that phrase lightly because I don't really believe in them), because even when I read it now, I can see all the problems with it but I like it anyway.
Or maybe I respond to it is a more accurate framing than liking it.Anyway, that's all to say that this is super, super rapey, and in a way that I found hard to read.
Not reading it again.
Johanna Lindsey books are the romance books I started off reading, sneaking them from my mums bookshelf and hiding away in my room when I was a teenager.
I wonder sometimes how reading these may have affected me.....hahah.Fires of Winter is classic Johanna Lindsey style.
I will address if you don't like forced seduction maybe steer clear of this author because it is a common theme and being that this is a Viking Romance there is plenty raping and pillaging.All in all even though it is that sort of book, I still thoroughly enjoyed it and will probably go through and read this series again.
The sensual scenes were so hot that they could steam the Viking (Norwegian) cold.The novel is fast paced and has all the elements of a bodice ripper.
This has more to do with the writing skills of Johanna Lindsey, who manages to keep the elements of humor, sex, action and adventure, well balanced.If you turn a blind eye to all the mention of rapes that happen in the background (which are always a major element in bodice rippers), this novel is actually a very romantic read.By the end, the built up suspense was so high that it was difficult to put the novel down.
Don't get me wrong, the captor/captive storyline is my fav, but the H is such an unreasonable jerk at times that i want to kill him.
Yet, he continues to consistently act like the wronged party and a spoiled child.
He does, in the end realize that he loves her, has been an unforgiveable jerk, and that he can't force her to be with him without it destroying her even though he desperately wants to.
She did not let him break her and defied him at every turn.I know that's a lot of complaining for a book I honestly couldn't put down.
I honestly did not think I would like this.
I love historicals, but I've never tried any Viking-centered romances, which naturally, includes dubious consent or straight out rape scenarios.
Plus, the heroine is a tomboyish beauty, whose spirit seems to warm every male Viking soul/loins.
Along with men who seem to find the need to rape (and the women still find pleasure in it), and cruel, coldhearted female supporting characters and villainesses are littered all over.
Somehow, considering the Viking culture, the rape, pillage, and locking women up was acceptable.
Must Read Book!!! WARNING! This book will make you throw it away. Or feel to kick the hero, stab him, and buried him in the deep below.. Hahaha
I know that the olden times weren't sympathetic with women, but reading about rape and abuse as an everyday event messed up my mind in the beginning.
Not only does the Viking men rape the captive women and slaves repeatedly throughout the novel, the hero Garrett himself rapes Brenna twice.
Garrett was raised a Viking and it would be odd, or worse wishful thinking, if he behaves out of his character and treat Brenna like a perfect gentleman.
I want this to be the mentality taught to woman of today.It was a really different experience reading this book.
4,5
