https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33726.Crazy_For_You
La constante del libro es aquella zona de confort en que caen la mayoría de las relaciones de pareja, donde las cosas no están mal, pero tampoco están bien.La historia transcurre en la pequeña localidad de Tibbett (Ohio), donde todo el mundo se conoce y el cotilleo es el pan de cada día.
Al menos a mí me pilló en un momento en que todo me hacía mucho sentido.El estilo narrativo es muy original, hay partes muy graciosas y otras tan inquietantes que las envidiaría hasta el mismo Stephen King.
En general, todos los personajes están muy bien construidos, de esos que no dejan indiferente ni para bien ni para mal.Muy recomendable.
Obožavam da muškarcima "uvaljujem" da prevode ženske knjige i slušam njihove komentare... A tek neke njihove interpretacije... :)
Also after having heard about Jennifer Crusie and her books from a friend, I thought I should simply go ahead and read this one, especially as it was loved by a good friend of mine.
Whether it is the married man hunting vamp Barbara or the crazy mother Meggy and her friend Edie or even the obnoxious principal Robert; they were hilarious, giving me some moments of fun in this otherwise tiresome tale.Despite all these negatives, I have to admit that this was an easy book to read.
**Audiobook Review**This one is so difficult for me to review! It did, in fact, make me a little crazy while listening to it. I've read/listened to a lot of Crusie lately, and I don't think that this is one that will stick in my mind for any time - at least I hope not. What I liked: -Scant little. But let's be clear, I did not HATE this book. It was Crusie's usual humor and pacing. If you like her stuff, then don't skip this one on my account. -The love story was there, the awkward circumstances
I've read/listened to a lot of Crusie lately, and I don't think that this is one that will stick in my mind for any time - at least I hope not.
More than once I really wanted to pull my hair out.-(view spoiler)[ At once point the female MC is violently attacked in the parking lot by her ex and then refuses to contact the police until the next day because she's just too tired.
Quinn, thirty-six, leaves her boyfriend, Bill and starts to lead a new, more spontaneous life which includes among other things, a (very) hot affair with Nick, her used to be brother-in-law now best friend.
So here we have a nice little romantic comedy about two people who always, kinda liked each other, who know each other so well that when they start to have sex with each other, its fireworks all round.
She knows how to write characters that are endearing, with all their foils and triumps.
Me encantó.- Es un libro que demuestra que una muy buena historia de amor, no necesita ni millonarios, ni personajes oscuros, ni hechos espectaculares.- Simplemente muy buena!
3,5/5 αστερακια
He breaks into her house numerous times; he and the football obsessed, weenie principal sabotage her loan so she'll move back with Bill; he locks her dog out and reports that it bit him so the dog will get putdown and almost is, he sabotages her house with loose railing etc, the principal wants to start a rumor she's being inappropriate with a student, Bill picks up her dog and THROWS IT, and a bunch more physical and emotional abuse under the creepy guise that she needs to be with him.
She gets upset, but is willing to give him another chance.There is a side plot with Q's best friend married to Nick's brother, and stupid must run in packs.
This story was . . . problematic. Nick was too much of a loner jerkwad to be attractive as love interest and Quinn a bit too stubbornly stupid to be sympathetic as main character. The secondary characters elevated the story somewhat as they were more sympathetic and attractive than either Nick or Quinn—saving this from two-star territory, but only just.
Me ha gustado. Todo lo que escribe esta chica me gusta. Pero no me ha enamorado.
Quinn digs in her heels and refuses to give the dog back.
So Bill takes it upon himself to return the dog.
When Quinn finds out she realizes Bill is not the right man for her and she moves out.
This is where things begin to get a little disturbing.
Bill begins stalking Quinn and doing ridiculous things to get her back.
He's been her best friend for a number of years, and she thinks he is just the right man to have a fling with.
But he doesn't want to ruin their relationship so he tries his best to stay away.
Pero todo en tono de comedia.La novela está bien, no profundiza demasiado pero te hace pensar.Quizá sea demasiado repetitiva y varios personajes "rumian" para adentro sus dudas una y otra vez.
Ni entre normales y trastornados.Y bueno, tiene ese estilo americano que pasan cosas difíciles y no se les mueve un pelo (view spoiler)[ como enterarse que la madre es lesbiana y echa al padre para vivir con su "amiga" y todo lo toman con menos impacto que el que habría si se hubiera ganado una plancha en un sorteo de la escuela  (hide spoiler)]
Η Κουίν έχει δεσμό με έναν άντρα από εκείνους που όλοι μας θα χαρακτηρίζαμε ως "καλό παιδί", αλλά χωρίς αυτό να σημαίνει πως θα τα φτιάχναμε εμείς μαζί του, έχει μια καλή δουλειά που της επιτρέπει να ζει αξιοπρεπώς, χωρίς απαραίτητα να είναι αυτή που ονειρευόταν να κάνει όταν ήταν νεότερη, ενώ έχει μία οικογένεια και φίλους που την αγαπάνε και την στηρίζουν, χωρίς όμως στην πραγματικότητα να ξέρουν απόλυτα ποια είναι η Κουίν και τη θέλει από τη ζωή της.
While this one started off like one, it quickly devolved into something that wasn't really fun to read.Everyone's angry and short-tempered, which is annoying in itself, but then there's the ladies of the books (with the exception of Edie) whom are just so unreasonable and rather high maintenance.
Definitely felt sorry for Bill, even though got all creepy.Though one thing I don't get is why the ladies had to make it so difficult for the guys to come back.
It's like, well they did me "wrong" (highly subjective) and now they need to pay to come back.
The story of Quinn, a woman fed up with the bland life she'd been living, who decides it's time for some changes.It starts with a dog that she rescues and wants to keep, which leads to her breaking up with her boyfriend who'd been railroading over her while she let him, and the changes have a ripple effect on her closest friends and family.Free from the constraints she'd put on herself for years, she realizes she has the hots for Nick, her best friend who was married to her sister once upon a time.
I found this JC book to be very chaotic, but still I liked it. There's a lot going on with different characters that come full circle. Typical JC. Complicated, funny, romantic, sexy and quirky....all that I love about her :)
Quinn es un personaje bastante real, esa chica que visto desde fuera lo tiene todo pero no se siente feliz y es increíble que un simple acto como adoptar una mascota lo cambie todo.Nick Ziegler es el eterno amigo y conforme soltero que no quiere complicaciones en su vida, la relación con Quinn es un tira y afloja, quizás me esperaba más de ellos por lo que había leído por ahí, me refiero a las críticas, pero bueno está bien.Respecto al ex novio, Bill para mí ha sido una completa sorpresa, no me cabía en la cabeza sus reacciones finales, y es que en ningún momento se veía algún rasgo en su actitud que podamos atribuir a lo que hace hacia el final.
I bought it in the first place for the same reason I look at other chick lit books - there's a dog in it.
It also provides an excellent example of how madness spirals.And as for the dog, there is less and less of her as the book goes on, but she's still pretty darn adorable throughout and plays a fairly significant role in the climax.
This is a great one for alphabet challenges on character names as you have a female Q - Quinn and a male Z - Nick Ziegler.
Quinn decides to get out of her rut and go after what she wants for a change.What I enjoyed:* The characters.
(view spoiler)[There is no way he was that deranged and Quinn lived with him for years and didn't notice.
(view spoiler)[She kept getting pissed at Max because he didn't want to have sex the instant she did.
I know there was more to it, but she came off as a bit of a *itch (hide spoiler)]
¡¡¡ODIO A BILL!!!
Tuve unas ganas profundas de molerlo a palos a lo largo de toda la historia, así que estuve muy contenta cuando Quinn y Nick le dieron su merecido.Desde el principio se puede ver que Quinn y Nick son el uno para el otro, y los únicos que no se dan cuenta son ellos.
Y Katie es la pequeña perrita pulgosa en medio de todo que logra que Quinn se de cuenta de lo que realmente puede hacerla feliz en la vida y que luche por ello.Lean esta historia, tienen de todo.
Amor, risas, drama, suspenso.
Para no perdérsela.
Kind of nice. Ok. I couldn't get into the characters that much.It was about a school teacher, Quinn, her family and friends. It was about relationships that weren't going well, some were breaking up. Some got back together later. Nothing really excited me. Even after seeing her end up with Nick, which was a happy ending, I felt as if too many details were missing. The story wasn't as fulfilling as I would have liked.DATA:Sexual language: mild. Number of sex scenes: three. Setting current day, small town USA. Copyright: 1999. Genre: contemporary romance.
I had a great time reading this :)4.5 would be more accurate.I loved it! It was funny and (surprisingly) steamy!It has an appropriate title, really.
Katie, the mutt, sneaks into Quinn's life and puts a wrecking ball in her seemingly perfect relationship with champion high school coach, Bill.
Quinn starts digging on her best friend, and ex-brother in law, Nick who's hidden his flame for her for decades.
Nick's brother, Max, is inadvertently affected by Quinn's changes when his wife, Darla, decides to make some changes herself that don't go to well for Max.At the core of this book Cruise is exploring the various ways people demonstrate, or take for granted, their love.
I love you Cruise!
One thing about Crusie's novels: there's always something going on beneath the surface.You might think this is just a story about a girl having to chose between two men.
The sister has moved on and is happily settled, but Quin still can't get past Nick.
One day the live-in boyfriend does something that pushes Quin over the edge, and she moves out.
Thus begins the I-want-you-back dance, while all Quin's attention is on Nick.
Taken like this, at face value, you'd probably laugh a lot reading this.
If you read it again for the deeper story, you might well cry.
That's how she should have kept him through the book, as a much more subtle antagonist, and all the more unsettling for it; making him literally crazy for Quinn tipped that part of the book over the line into the realm of the melodramatic and hokey, especially given that Bill starts suffering from unexplained "headaches." The rest of the book deserved better than that plot-line; but based on those other parts, I might check out some other novels by Crusie and see if she improves on this one.
Meets a dark, rebel-type bad boy with a heart of gold who eventually falls in love with said character despite being a bachelor-till-I-die type.
All of a sudden she is conviently left alone due to her "independent streak" and is attacked by said ex boyfriend.
New boyfriend shows up just as she saves her self and attacks ex.
Other than the different location and sub-characters, I thought I was reading the same book!
Plus the sub-characters are not as fully developed as they should be - her mother is only in the book to prove a point then you don't hear from her again.
I guess I'm addicted.
I mean, there's really no excuse for the number of Jennifer Crusie novels I've devoured if I didn't really like them, at least a little bit.
I recognize that the plotlines are transparent, the characters are a bit silly, and the sex scenes are strangely reminiscent of each other.
But they're perfect to casually pick up, read a bit in the workroom, read a bit on the reference desk, and read before going to bed.
I never feel like I'm missing a pivotal moment despite not devoting my entire attention.
Yes, these novels are to my reading repertoire as "Real Housewives of..." is to my television watching schedule.
This could have been a great book if Bill was not insane and if Quinn and Nick had a better friendship.
It was completely melodramatic and too insane to read when Bill became...
insane.
Yes, he starts off being annoying, planning out Quinn's life with him, but he becomes progressively insufferable.
It might have helped jumpstart Quinn and Nick's relationship, but it was definitely detracting.
Quinn and Nick were supposed to be best friends.
How exactly does that happen when Nick tries to ignore her?
There was not enough development in that region and it makes it hard to understand why Nick was afraid to get involved.
Ένα βιβλίο με πρωταγωνιστές γύρω στα 35 τους, οι οποίοι αντιδρούν σαν να είναι 18 χρονών, όλο πείσματα και γκρίνιες και στερεότυπα του στυλ: "Κάτι θέλω αλλά δεν σου το λέω, βρες το μόνος σου".
Γυναίκες που γκρινιάζουν για τους άντρες τους ή τις βαρετές σχέσεις τους και προσπαθούν να βρουν τη λύση ώστε να δώσουν λίγη ένταση στην καθημερινότητα- αυτό είναι το πολύ ωραίο αυτού του βιβλίου, ίσως λίγο σε ξεκουνάει προτού βαρεθείς τη συζυγική σου ζωή, αλλά ο τρόπος που το κάνει είναι λάθος.
Ίσως πάλι να είμαι εγώ μεγαλύτερη από το ηλικιακό κοινό στο οποίο απευθύνεται το βιβλίο.
Δεν με έπεισε για τα αισθήματα κανενός, είχε και λίγες σκηνές από σεξ και τελείωσε το βιβλίο, πάμε για άλλα τώρα.
I just did not care for this book, and I usually like books by Jennifer Crusie. The main character, Quinn, is a mess; her ex-boyfriend Bill is a stalker; her best friend Darla just doesn't now what she wants other than she wants her husband to "change." That about sums up this book.Go Cards! L1C4!!
