https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24453.Witches_Midwives_and_Nurses
Is Witches, Midwives and Nurses: A History of Women Healers, first published in 1970, a bit dated? Yes. Does it contain an excellent history of how healing women (who once acted as midwives, yes, but as general healers as well) were first diminished by being deemed witches and then shunted into the supporting role of nurse? Yes, as well. This slim volume still makes for excellent reading, particularly to see how the Church and the emerging physicians’ associations made common cause in keeping women in their place.
As the authors state so well, "It was witches who developed an extensive understanding of bones and muscles, herbs and drugs, while physicians were still deriving their prognoses from astrology and alchemists were trying to turn lead into gold."The issue of lay healing by women and ultimately midwifery being driven to extinction in America is served especially well.
I am a fan of Barbara Ehrenreich's work as well as a fan of midwifery, and so it was with great interest that I picked up this pamphlet.
However, I naively expected it to go in depth into the history of midwifery and women healers.
I was not anticipating that having been written two years before I was born, the over-riding feminist perspective and thesis of this work.
I am not one to read much politically or feminist driven work.
Even though I respect both authors and believe they produce work with integrity, the claims in the pamphlet are hard for me to swallow.
This is a pamphlet not an academic paper and there is a bibliography at the end, but I think more thorough and systematic citations would lend the report more credibility.Lastly, nurses… I disagree with some of the authors interpretation of the profession of nurse as a means of enforcing upper class ideas of ladyhood on working class women, putting them in the role of subservience to male doctors that mirrored domestic subservience to a male patriarch.
Witches, Midwives and Nurses: A History of Women Healers by Barbara Ehrenreich and Deirdre English traces the systematic and systemic persecution of women as healers beginning with the witch-hunt craze of the 14th through 17th centuries up to the early 20th Century.
Even though the situation for women in the medical profession has improved since its publication (the 1970s), Witches, Midwives and Nurses: A History of Women Healers is still well worth reading because it illuminates how two powerful forces systematically and consistently colluded for many centuries in ejecting women from their role as healers and replacing them with male physicians.
In the dark ages, we called them witches, inferior to the rational knowledge of physicians and sought out feverishly, for even when their treatments were successful, the Malleus Maleficarum classified them as pure evil, thus protecting the medical class from any competition.
Moreover, even after graduating, women couldn’t perform as physicians since no hospital would take in a female intern.Finally, Florence Nightingale spreads nursing schools through the country, educating docile, submissive housemaids that History has baptized as the first nurses.
Presently, I can say medical schools are attended by more young women than men but I think such a long history of male supremacy in this profession has left its marks and they won’t fade for a long time.
Ehrenreich writes an introduction for this reprint of a 1973 classic, and as she says...we have to remind ourselves that WMN was written in a blaze of anger and indignation.This book was contemporaneous with Our Bodies, Ourselves, the feminist text on the female body.
Ehrenreich sounds a little rueful above, but I'm still pissed.Five years before this second edition was published, Grey's Anatomy debuted on ABC, with a female doctor lead and a large, mostly female supporting cast who are all doctors, too.
I wonder if Ehrenreich and the authors of Our Bodies, Ourselves watch it, and what they think if they do.
Reading the history of women healers and the development of the medical profession was fascinating. However, I was surprised at the authors' conclusions on the nursing profession at present. The authors state, 'The drive to professionalize nursing is, at best, a flight from the reality of sexism in the health system.'...a completely absurd statement and a very outdated perspective. It is truly a profession that requires skill and intelligence, in addition to showing compassion and 'nurturing tendencies'. It is a fine, delicate balance. One that should be celebrated and applauded by feminists.
For a rather academic text, this is an easy read. It's organized in short chapters, (it's only 48 pages total), and lays out historical events in a clear narrative. It's dry, but you'll get an infuriating picture of how classism and sexism helped ruin our healthcare system and how the medical profession reinforces that classism and sexism. You'll also get more evidence that Barbara Ehrenreich is bad-ass.
A nice essay, but quite dated and opinionated at times. I wish there were an updated essay on this topic, as the authors note some information has since been proven incorrect. I love the topics combined: witches and midwives and nurses oh my! As a nurse and lover of midwifery with a huge interest in witches, I was expecting more cohesiveness. A good intro. Needs revision with more references.
From the perspective of a patient in the medical system today, I really enjoyed reading this and I would be really interested in reading some of the sources in the bibliography. I would be curious what today's nurses and women doctors think about some of the conclusions. I wonder how they hold up after 50 years.
To write with self-awareness, not self-righteousness.I love history, I'm a feminist, and I have enjoyed some of Ehrenreich's previous works.
I picked this book up at a booksale, hoping to read about the very rich history of women healers and midwives.
According to the book the midwives were empowered and the nurses were an extension of sexism.
I just don't think that's the only word on the story and I was so disappointed to read this book and hear the flat, good/bad, man/woman simplistic thesis statement.
I want to read that book!
As a feminist, I somewhat relate, but am also wary to a degree, as at times the authors take an overly dramatic approach.
"...[the feminist movement]...did not challenge nursing as an oppressive female role.
The American women's movement had given up the struggle for full sexual equality to focus exclusively on the vote, and to get it, they were ready to adopt the most sexist tenets of Victorian ideology: Women need the vote...because they are mothers..."Women is the mother of the race," gushed Boston feminist Julia Ward Howe, "...Woman is also the homemaker, upon her devolve the details which bless and beautify family life." And so on in paeans too painful to quote." (p.38.)I suppose if I felt that women were still engaged in a major day to day life struggle for equality, I might consider such statements painful, but the authors' statements are, for me, difficult to relate to.
This book was written when I was a preschooler, and it just boggles my mind what a different world it was back then.
My mother has said that she started college studying pharmacology but after a year or two her father told her it was time to get serious and her career options were to be a nurse (as her SIL did) or be a teacher, which she chose and then hated.
I had to keep reminding myself that I had greatly benefited from what these and other feminists fought for and that many things I take for granted would be very different if they hadn't taken on these causes.
Really interesting and insightful, more so because of the 2010 introduction with some revisions and updates by the authors.
Makes it clear that medicine and healing have been legally and systematically taken out of women’s hands (and those of working class people and people of colour) at various times in history, usually to the detriment of poorer people.
It’s pretty scary stuff reading the original 1970s text and discovering that at that time nurses were still taught how to apply makeup as part of their training.
Since then some of the assertions have been questioned but the essential premise is still stunning and provides lots of food for thought as I'm writing about a woman working as a healer in the 17th century.
The focus is on how university-educated male physicians worked to suppress the wisdom of women working with other women, particularly as midwives but also as healers, and expert users of plant medicine based on practical applications, and possibly of prayers and charms, as effective magic.
I wish there were better footnotes.
Way more a treatise than anything, this little booklet appeared early-ish in Ehrenreich's career, clearly indicating the direction she would take as a critic of contemporary society. Excellent critique of the history of (mostly Western) healing. 5 stars for content and criticism. If you're not into feminist critique, don't bother. Her essay "Welcome to Cancerland," though, is an eye-opener for all women with breasts This history of women healers provides a rock-solid foundation for understanding the health care delivery system and its consumers.
A quick read that summarizes things that I've heard/read/intuited/somehow learned before, with additional elaboration and actual dates and times - tells the story of the Goddess-worshipping women that the men of the Catholic Church were so afraid of, with their healing powers and lack of sexual shame - and how that battle between ideologies and genders has been carried through today. Amazingly timely, considering it was written quite a while ago - unfortunately. It shows the inherent unease in the marriage of nurse with midwife - the balancing between worlds, the struggle.
Funny story about how I came to own an original copy of this. The women's center at my alma mater was dismantled, sad story, and all of the books were left out in the campus center. I was looking through and thought this was of interest. I didn't pick it up until about 5 years later when I was doing research on childbirth and picked up For Her Own Good and read the introduction and realized that For Her Own Good is an expanded version of this pamphlet.
Although I would have liked more specific information on women's roles as lay healers and why they were lay healers (as opposed to men), I really enjoyed this book. I love learning about forgotten women's history, and this is, of course, a very important chapter. :D
This book is a bit dated now (written in the 1970’s) but I did appreciate the new introductory chapter written by the authors in 2010. One thing is for certain, though: sexism and classism have been problems in medicine for centuries. I will enjoy doing further reading on this topic.
A brief feminist treatment of the history of medicine. Its claims are astounding and illuminating. I see lots of room for future historians and writers to develop a lot of the themes raised in this volume.
Very strange and interesting historical synopsis. Less is focused on nurses but like the author, who has written Nickel and Dimed which is a life changing book about the less-employed in US
Très instructif, intéressant et très bien traduit. Lecture rapide et agréable.
A quick read and a good introduction to the feminist health care. Though I would like to see a modern update.
Very interesting, would like to see a modern update
A short, but interesting read
This is not to say I was disappointed.I have read a fairly limited amount of feminist nonfiction from the second wave, so it was interesting to see that this was from that time.
As a disabled/chronically ill woman, I have been interested in reading more in the way of nonfiction books about health and health movements.
I definitely found this book to be informative and useful.
It definitely made me interested in reading more in-depth on the subject.
I recommend it for anyone interested in the subject, or interested in reading second-wave feminist nonfiction concerned with health and class issues.
Si des progrès ont clairement été faits depuis (l’édition originale du texte date de 1973, et n’est que légèrement remanié avec une seconde introduction rédigée en 2010), il est toujours intéressant de se pencher sur la genèse de certains mouvements, de certains clichés.
Je ne vais pas refaire cet essai, qui est très court et se lit très bien, mais plus j’en apprends sur le mouvement féministe, plus je trouve incroyable qu’il faille nous battre au quotidien pour déterrer des croyances enracinées depuis des siècles sur la base d’aucun fondement tangible.
Quick, informative read on history of sexism racism and classism in the medical field. A good primer.
