https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151370.Many_Waters
Yalith is the youngest child of Noah; she's nearly 100 years old (because people in Noah's time lived much longer (Noah is 700ish)), but she's basically a teenager.
That would be the worst!Oh, back to the twins and male/female relationships:So Sandy meets Yalith; Yalith is basically naked, because the people in Noah's time only wear loincloths.
At any rate, Yalith is all but naked, and Sandy is a teenage boy confronted with a naked girl and his response is to get a "funny feeling." Um, what?
It's ridiculous.The twins do end up back at home after spending at least a year in the desert with Noah.
Sandys and Dennys on the other hand don't change much throughout Many Waters - they exit our story much as they enter it, self sufficient, hard working and caring.
Again, not exactly elementary school stuff.However, that being said, you'd think a children's book by a Christian author set in biblical times where the village seductress is called a slut would be pretty stuffy when it came to messages on sex and women, but surprisingly it's not.
Yes, two young adolescent boys are the main narrators, and yet most of the story revolves around activities like watering animals and plants, gardening, cooking, caring for the elderly, birthing and marriage - all the things our society typically considers to be feminine.

Many Waters is the fourth book in A Wrinkle in Time series and it's probably my least favorite.
12 chapters each book but man was I bored with this one.Sandy and Denny messed with their dad's new computer and traveled to a different time.
No amount of coffee, wine, or puppy snuggles could get me to like this book.
ANYTHING to do with sex in this book - I didn't like.
I think the reason I didn't like it was because this series isn't supposed to be that type of young adult..
more like middle school young adult..
HOOW DID THAT HAPPEN SOMEONE PLEASE EXPLAIN. How did the pure beauty and truth and utter heartbreaking melody of A Wrinkle in Time turn in to this monstrous, sensualized, romantic Bible Fanfiction.Did I just read that.Did my eyes behold those pages.I really hope that was some nasty, Echtroi-induced dream.Unfortunately...
Bad bible fanfiction.Initially I was excited for Many Waters.
I was keen to follow Dennys and Sandy for the first time.
However, I was less keen to follow them to pre-Flood times.
Dennys and Sandy spend so much of the book doing nothing.
There's this immediate realisation by both that they must be in pre-Flood times like there has never been another person named Noah.
The novel just constantly felt like it was written with such a hyper-religious agenda that L'Engle let actual craftsmanship fall to the wayside.If you need a good fucking laugh, go full steam ahead and read this.
There were so many characters in this story that it was a little hard to keep them straight, but I love when there are a lot of characters.
I was surprised at some of the content, as this book is supposed to be for kids.
What amuses me about the Time books--mostly the third and the fourth--is that the summaries make them seem like a science fictiony adventure, but really they deal a lot more with religion and the nature of good and evil.
I love Many Waters because I always wanted to hear about the twins and what was going on with them.
Sure, the nephil were there and halfway worked against them, but the only times either of the twins were in danger, it did not feel like there was any doubt at all that they would be saved, or able to get themselves out of it, and it did not feel like the nephil would have actually hurt them.Overall, it was a well written story, and does add some depth to Sandy and Den. It is also and interesting way to read the story of Noah and the flood.
You know that sliver of Genesis between the interminable lists of old dudes ("And Methuselah lived 969 years, blah blah blah...") and the tempestuous God-rage era of Noah and the Flood?
The unicorns (squee!), mammoths, seraphim, and nephilim are all intricately rendered, and make for a mystical tour of the Book of Genesis.
There was so much buildup for too little resolution: (view spoiler)[the floods start, and Sandy, Dennys, and the seraphim come up with a haphazard plan to return the twins to their own time in the last ten pages of the book.
this was the first of all the books which made me realize while i was reading it that it was all christian imagery.
and that's what people say about aslan - just a jesus allegory - but i didn't have any christian education as a child, so i missed all of that.
and most people say the same "when i was a kid i didn't realize it had all that christian metaphor." which i think means that in effect, it didn't.
i think i was fourteen when i read it and those boys are supposed to be CUTE.
fascinating blend of science, mythology and Bible epicIn this adventure, the twins Sandy and Dennys take center stage.
Along with the mythic elements, it's an incredible coming of age story.
The usually inseparable twins are actually apart for most of the story both physically and emotionally.
The twins experience the best and worst of humanity and must constantly face temptation in different forms.
It is a story of endurance, perseverance, faith and family.I liked this one as much as "The Tilting Planet" -- both are definitely highpoints in the series.
Yet I will admit that there were enough aspects of the story that I found interesting that by the time I had read two-thirds of the novel, I wanted to see exactly how Sandy and Dennys would escape the Great Flood and return home.
If you love L’Engle’s other writing, or if you are really interested in the concept of traveling back through time to experience the events of the Bible, then you will probably like this novel well enough.
Nothing like the other Time books.
The following passage really struck me when I read it; a good summary of the book's main themes:"I don't like entropy," Sandy said.
"The universe winding down.""I don't think it's winding down," Dennys contradicted.
"I think it's still being birthed.
Or to change.""Grandfather Lamech said that these are last days." The occasional slow drops of rain made Sandy on edge, and argumentative.Another spash of rain touched Dennys's face, muting the stars.
"There have been many times of last days," he said, "and they mark not only endings but beginnings."
Many Waters is the fourth book in Madeleine L’Engle’s TIME quintet.
The previous three books, A Wrinkle in Time, A Wind in the Door, and A Swiftly Tilting Planet have all focused on Meg Murray and her strange little brother Charles Wallace as they travel through time and space.
Many Waters is completely different.
In this story, Meg’s twin brothers Sandy and Dennis mess with a computer in their mother’s lab and get blasted back to the time of Noah before he built the ark.
From there the story turns into a strange historical fantasy whose source text is Genesis 6.In this well-known biblical story, God declares that humans are violent and corrupt...
It was such a dissapointment in comparison to the first three books in the series which I enjoyed greatly. Unfortunatly it focused on the two most boring, flat characters in the series and was such a terrible read, it took me 3 years to finally bring myself to finish it. I love the author and her writing, but this particular book was not to my liking and very dissapointing. I feel that it really let the series down.
I am surprised how much I enjoyed this, since I found the first 3 pretty mediocre. This is my favourite so far. One more to go. I suspect it had to do with the twins and Yalith's little romance. It was very interesting.
After reading and enjoying the three previous Wrinkle in Time books, I was excited to get into this one.
Sandy and Dennys never played a big role in the other books, but they always seemed like fun additions to the family, so I was excited to have a book about them.
While I have liked the biblical references in the previous books, this transporting of characters into Bible stories didn't work for me.
Sandy and Dennys could have been a lot of fun in a story, but this one didn't work.
2.5 StarsThe Murray twins take the spotlight for the first time in this book, which actually seems to be taking place somewhere between book 2 and 3 (as Meg isn’t yet married, and Sandy and Dennys are supposed to be in high school during this installment.) After accidentally interrupting an experiment, the boys are thrown back to some version of the pre-global flood days.
Unlike the third book, our young heroes actually end up living in—and learning to cope with—this historical time period in which they’ve apparently become trapped.
I gathered by the end, this was to imply that the cross-breeding with fallen angels resulted in the more modern height increase.
Each time the Murray twins get to see these lovely girls they only have bottoms on and the author describes nearly every time that top half for us.Included in the cast of characters are nephilum, seraphims, manticores, unicorns and pet mammoths the size of small dogs.
Also Noah is a jerk for the first half of the book, two of his sons are not that bright, one of his daughter in laws is half nephilum, an amazingly Noah got the ark built in less than 3 moons, and he sent Japheth and his wife to go tell the people one time that the rains were coming.
This book. This book! From the first time I read it maybe four or five years ago, I adored it, and I admire Madeleine L'Engle so much for having the brains and creativity to craft a story so brilliant, so bold, so just-absolutely-magnificent - I can never have enough words. This book is hands-down, pants-down my favorite of the Time Quintet series, and ties for my favorite-ever L'Engle with  A Ring of Endless Light , which, surprise! is also full of absolutely luminous prose and a glorious plot.
From the first time I read it maybe four or five years ago, I adored it, and I admire Madeleine L'Engle so much for having the brains and creativity to craft a story so brilliant, so bold, so just-absolutely-magnificent - I can never have enough words.
This book is hands-down, pants-down my favorite of the Time Quintet series, and ties for my favorite-ever L'Engle with 
Just that, the people in these books have so much love between themselves and for the world around them, I fall in love again every time I read these books.
And L'Engle's writing is flawless, totally gorgeous.
Sandy and Dennys (my fav characters in the preceding books) mistakenly go back in time to when Noah was building his arc (which, okay, I guess we can pretend like theres no question whether or not this really happened.
Sure.) It's written well and it does bring up some great points about how sexist Noah's story actually is (primarily the fact that his wife and his sons wives names are never mentioned but they can name his 4 times great-grandfather.) but I wouldn't really consider it a kids book.
It actually gets pretty racy and violent at times.
This is a quite a different book in the A Wrinkle in Time Quintet series.
It can be viewed as a standalone and seems to fits between books 2 and 3.
Bearing in mind that it was written almost 9 years after book 1, this one is for mature teens given the themes.
I listened to this one and the narrator, Ann Marie Lee was excellent.
I will be making note of her name to listen to any other books she narrates.
Overall, whilst I had issues with certain topics in this novel, it was an enjoyable listen.
The premise fascinated me, as I’m very familiar with my Biblical tales (Catholic, party of one.) The prose is simple but sweet, with two twin boys as the MCs. It’s rich with history, embellished with touches of the supernatural and speeds steadily to an outcome I’m sure we all know all too well.Sandy and Dennis were refreshing main characters.
It was definitely the intricacies within Many Waters that drove it towards the climax, and the sweet touch of love that led to a sad, but beautiful climax was well-written and not overdone unlike a lot of YA romance these days.
"Many Waters" was no exception, though the story is quite different from the usual "Time Quartet" travels, in that it has more biblical ties and features a set of characters who hadn't previously ventured on their own dimensional travels in the primary storyline with Meg and Charles Wallace.Enter Sandy and Dennys, the usually skeptical, practical twins who end up having an adventure of their own, one that transforms them remarkably.
I remember laughing when the twins were first considered giants upon their arrival into the world, and how fascinated the people were with the concept of twins (in the case that Sandy and Dennys looked alike).
It's a retelling of the Biblical story of Noah and the Flood, told from the viewpoint of Sandy and Dennys, the Murry twins, who have only been secondary characters in the other books.
In this story, they are not quite 16; several times, they mention that they are looking forward to getting their drivers' licenses.Ms. L'Engle created quite an imaginative and atmospheric setting and characters - some of whom are mentioned in the Biblical account and others who aren't - and like all well-written historical fiction, I enjoyed it very much.
In spite of the fact that Sandy & Dennys are males, Ms. L'Engle focuses on the routine, domestic life in Lamech's and Noah's tent.
There is no reason for Sandy & Dennys to travel back in time.
Still, this one was entertaining and with a new approach that is, in its way, just as mind-bendingly fantastic as the others.Twin brothers Sandy and Dennys, who have so far avoided most of the strange adventures that have ensnared their sister and little brother, are finally in for one.
Above all, Sandy and Dennys are very different main characters than the open-minded Meg and Charles Wallace, and they're great to get to know; somehow it's even more interesting to watch 15-year-old skeptics deal with the fantastic.
4.5 / 5Strangely this sci fi/fantasy/time travel/bible fanfic/ sexual awakening story is (currently, still one to go) my favourite in the Whisper in Time quintet.
This story was slow moving at times but very plot heavy and I liked how it explored the hitherto barely explored characters of Dennys and Sandy.
I also liked the exploring characters (including those unnamed in the Bible) and acknowledging how patriarcial the society was back then (and how the stories were as well).
This is one of those books where I get it if someone doesn't like it, because it is weird af, but it really really worked for me!
L'Engle, who sends her protagonists back to the biblical era of Noah, uses the setting to touch more directly on the underlying theological roots that these novels have running through them.
Her clever rendering of many of the unspoken details of the Noahic story exhibits close attention to the biblical account, and creative solutions to some of its more puzzling elements.This book touches on the grand tradition of myth-making, reminds us of the fundamental importance of the old stories, and affirms that not all change or "progress" is necessarily for the better.
Never read childhood favorites as an adult if you don't want them to lose their favorite status.
The book is about 2 teenage twin boys who accidentally touch their father's science project and end up time traveling to a few months before the Great Flood with Noah and company.
Just how many times can new characters discover that Sandy and Dennys are twins and be confused over it?
I've had such a thing many times, and it does not incapacitate a person for weeks.
I also found the book to be too fantastical for my adult tastes.
I liked book 4 - as I enjoy creative imaginings of what life would be like in a different but similar culture; the fact that there is a biblical layer makes it all the more fascinating.
I was shocked, actually, at how adult this book was, and can only imagine that some of this flies over the kids heads!?
In any case, I also enjoy how the adventure just sort of ends; some things are wrapped up but others really are just left as is, and they return to normal life, and they don't tell their family...
PS the other thing I really enjoyed, actually, was the way in which Faith is dealt with...
