https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2442.Witches_Abroad
Just as Eddie Murphy and Arsenio Hall (who each played multiple characters) were the most enjoyable part of that otherwise mediocre film, so too does the dialogue between Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Og, and Magrat Garlick make this 1991 Pratchett Discworld novel so much fun.In this the twelfth Discworld book, Sir Terry revisits his Witches sub-series that he left in 1988’s Wyrd Sisters and to marvelous effect – a fairy godmother has died and so the three must travel to Genua to settle matters.
Frank Baum.Like so many of the Discworld books, Pratchett also uses the comic setting of the novel to explore and comment upon various elements of human nature and to administer satire from the playful to the biting.An uproarious good time.
I won't bother with review instead here are some of my favorite quotesPeople think that stories are shaped by people.
In fact, it's the other way aroundPeople whose wishes get granted often don't turn out to be very nice people.Wisdom is one of the few things that looks bigger the further away it is.You can't go around building a better world for people.
Only people can build a better world for people.
Otherwise it's just a cage.Humanity's a nice place to visit, but you wouldn't want to live there.Good and bad is tricky," she said.
"I ain't too certain about where people stand.
P'raps what matters is which way you face.

This is the 3rd adventure with my favourite witches starring a colourful cast of characters such as the here introduced Mrs. Gogol as well as Mr. Casanunda (yes, it is who you fear) in addition to the almost always cheerful Nanny, the always grumpy but ultimately "good" Granny and the always dishevelled Magrat.
Yep, stories, here, are a character in their own right.Highlights in this particular book were Greebo with the vampire:Granny playing cards:Greebo being turned into a human (and what he does while being in a man's body):As is typical for the Discworld and Sir Terry at large, this book not only delivers silly fun and fast-paced action (including not one but TWO witches' duels), but also contemplations on some very deep matters.
Re-read 5/24/18:Second read! And MORE WITCHES. Well, voodoo, too! What happens when stories just INSIST that witches come over and to the other side? What, with all the wolves misunderstanding that they're not men and dwarves trying to steal Nanny Og's shoes and ALL THOSE MAGIC MIRRORS! And in the end, it's just family rivalry. :)Weatherwax really stole the show. Yeah. Even more than that damn cat Greebo! :)The novel is a great mish-mash of fairy tails with proper Discworld attitude. :) Better than most of the Witches novels, IMHO, but I'm just biding time till Aching comes along. :)
The last time I enjoyed a Discworld book this much was when I read the second Witches book, Wyrd Sisters.
As with the previous Witches book, this story focuses primarily on the characters of Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and Magrat.
I thought the overall plot in this book was far more coherent than that of most of the other Discworld books.Although Magrat can be annoying sometimes, Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg are just hilarious and some of their reactions as they traveled through “foreign parts” made me laugh.
One minor complaint I have is that, in Wyrd Sisters, the same characters referred to other places as “forn parts”.
‘We’re her godmothers,’ said Granny.‘That’s right,’ said Nanny Ogg.‘We’ve got a wand, too,’ said Magrat.‘But you hate godmothers, Mistress Weatherwax,’ said Mrs Gogol.‘We’re the other kind,’ said Granny.
It was funny and cute, and at times dark, really dark (view spoiler)[- they killed a wolf out of mercy - (hide spoiler)] but there was still something that I enjoyed better in Wyrd Sisters.
Maybe it was the lack of a fairy tale setting that appealed more to me.
Oh I forgot how much fun this book was. Traveling with the witches had me laughing nonstop while thinking about how travelers behave and appear to others. And all the things about stories and their desire to happen and end. So good!
The disguise isn’t perfect however, and the young bride to be, Emberella, wants nothing to do with him – she thinks he’s slimy and is concerned by the whispers of the townsfolk about his eyes.Desiderata hooks the three Lancre witches into this by sending Magrat the fairy godmother wand, along with a letter stating that she’s now the second Fairy Godmother to Emberella and that she’s to go to Genua to stop the wedding.
The thing about Discworld is that you don't necessarily have to read his books in order.
Like many Discworld novels, Witches Abroad is a wacky landslide of inappropriate humor and clever words that gradually spirals into genuine emotion.
There's even a Gollum-parody near the beginning.And now, as is traditional with a Discworld book review, here are wacky quotes:"Nanny Ogg [...] had a tendency to come out with what Magrat thought of as double-intenders, although in Nanny Ogg's case they were generally single entendres, and proud of it.""Despite many threats, Granny Weatherwax had never turned anyone into a frog.
Dear Pretties,Carrying on with this series and with my healthy exercises. I love reading this sub-series because I can relate so well with Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg. This time it seems that Pratchett was spoofing a number of fairy tales. Might not take me long to finish this book.Day 13: Back to the excersising, and my husband calling out the exercises for me... Day 14: I hate that I have to have privacy to excercise. I used to be in Martial Arts and Self-defense, and have found out just h
Dear Pretties,Carrying on with this series and with my healthy exercises.
Might not take me long to finish this book.Day 13: Back to the excersising, and my husband calling out the exercises for me...
Day 16: I was just so lazy today, I'm suprised that I didn't spend the entire day passed out sleeping like I did the previous rest days.
Day 17: Suprisingly I was like this in my workouts today...
All I can say that this one was even better than the last, by the end I was crying from laughing so hard.
But then there isn't much that can stand up to the glare of Granny Weatherwax and her unflinchingly rigid way of looking a what is right and more importantly what isn't.The road trip around "Europe" is a mine of wonderfully playful anecdotes featuring the Disc's favourite coven of witches, the complex build up to and the final showdown with the Fairy Godmother a delight but even so it feels slight, like it was a clever idea for a short story expanded upon to the point where it could legitimately be published as novel but never really going further in the way the best of the Pratchett books will.
For instance I know I have read ‘Witches Abroad’ a half dozen times in my life and never once realized that the ‘Cinderella’ of the story (Emberella) was of mixed heritage.
In no way does this affect the story or the review, just jumped out at me for the first time.Anyway….Another book following Granny Weatherwax so you must know I am all in.
The late godmother lets Magrat know she is not to bring Nanny and Granny along, so of course all three witches head to Genua.
4.5 'This is a story about stories. Or what it really means to be a fairy godmother. But it’s also, particularly, about reflections and mirrors.'  When Desirata Hollow dies, she leaves her wand to Magrat Garlick. With it, Magrat inherits an obligation to help Princess Emberella not to marry a prince. What Magrat doesn't know is that the princess has two godmothers, one good and one bad. Another important thing in Desirata's will is whatever happens, Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg must not help
Another important thing in Desirata's will is whatever happens, Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg must not help her.
We all know what 'mustn't' does when it comes to those two.The three witches and one cat set out to help the poor princess.
Along the way they notice a lot of weird things - creatures from different fairy tales roaming the country.
If you can't stand a lot of bickering, three different witches being their own weird, funny and occasionally obnoxious selves, completely messed up fairy tales, then I suggest you skip this one.
This is an unusual book in this series for me as it was released at a very busy time in my life and I didn't read it as a new release, and in fact, I didn't read it until well after at least the next book in the Witches series came out.The old witch Desiderata Hollow dies, leaving her role as one of a pair of fairy godmothers to Magrat Garlick and a job for all three of Magrat, Nanny Ogg and Granny Weatherwax in the far-off country of Genua.
The other fairy godmother is in Genua and uses the power of Stories to her own ends.
4 Stars.This is the third Witches book in Pratchett's Discworld series and delivers everything you would expect from a Discworld story; adventure, malapropisms galore, double entendres, a general air of silliness and an underlying lesson about the nature of life.Granny Weatherwax is my favorite Discworld character, but Nanny Ogg is now a very close second with her ribald jokes and songs and her ability to hold her liquor.
I've also become rather fond of Magrat, wet hen though she is.
They're the perfect antidote to the often soul sucking banality of real life.
(Relectura Mundodisco #12)Razones para darle 5 estrellas: Tata, Yaya, Greebo, vudú, cuentos y reflexiones sobre la bondad y la maldad. Sin duda la saga de las brujas es la que más puntos está ganando en la relectura.
The three Lancre witches Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and Magrat are some of my favorite characters in the whole series, not to mention Nanny's cat Greebo (who reminds me of some Roundworld cats that I have known).This volume starts off with Magrat being willed the wand (and duties) of a Fairy Godmother.
It's not necessary to have read any of the other books but I think that having read at least Wyrd Sisters and possibly Equal Rites helps establish a good understanding of the witches and their motivations and characters.
"It's not staying in the same place that's the problem," said Nanny. "It's not letting your mind wander."  Witches Abroad is one of the most entertaining Discworld novels so far, if reading chronologically, in which Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and Magrat set off on an adventure to stop a peasant girl, Emberella, from marrying a prince. Along the way the witches encounter many stories, including one with a girl in a red riding hood and a rather confused big bad wolf. Not to worry though, the t
Witches Abroad is one of the most entertaining Discworld novels so far, if reading chronologically, in which Granny Weatherwax, Nanny Ogg, and Magrat set off on an adventure to stop a peasant girl, Emberella, from marrying a prince.
Along the way the witches encounter many stories, including one with a girl in a red riding hood and a rather confused big bad wolf.
Not to worry though, the three witches have many talents in derailing things that are meant to be.As usual, one's enjoyment of a Discworld novel is usually determined foremost by the cast of characters, and secondly by where on the scale of ridiculous the concept falls.
Loved it. Thank goodness for Sir Terry and his Discworld novels.There's nothing better than settling down to read about Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg on a dark,grey day with the wind howling outside and the rain lashing the window!Witches Abroad is now one of my favourite Discworld books. Highly recommended for all fans of Sir Terry!
“Herkes bacaklarını görebiliyor.”“Hayır, göremiyorlar,” dedi Ogg Ana.
“Çünkü araya kumaş giriyor.”“Evet, ama herkes bacaklarının nerede olduğunu görebiliyor,” dedi Havamumu Nine.“Bu aptalca.
Bu… bu herkesin, giysilerinin altında çıplak olduğunu söylemekten farksız,” dedi Magrat.“Magrat Sarımsak!
Havamumu Nine gibi despot ama bilge bir kadın, yanında Ogg Ana gibi dünyanın en hafifmeşrep ve bilge tombul ninesi ve eşantiyon olarak da bilge olma yolunda ilerlemeye çalışan duygusal ve romantik Magrat.
Dünyanın en saçma yol hikâyesi.Cadılar bu kez, Genua kentindeki peri anneyi durdurabilme misyonunda.
Tabii, Havamumu Nine'nin buzhane soğukluğundaki heyecansızlığı ile Ogg Ana'nın kaynayan lavlar ısısındaki coşkusu bir araya gelince, her şey, olmaması gerektiği kadar gülünçleşiyor."Cadılar" alt serisinin en komik kitaplarından biri.
I love all the witches, but Nanny was my favourite in this one. :) It is now my goal in life to become as good at foreign as she is.Gooden day, big-feller mine host! Trois beers pour favour avec us, silver plate.
Dodata je i poslednja mačka na spisak koji ćete čitati na Bosonogoj. :)
More fun with Granny Weatherwax & friends as they travel to foreign parts to stop a fairy godmother from making people have happily ever afters, whether it’s wanted or not. Loved it.
The first of the Discworld novels I have read (publication order, mostly, but I skipped Reaper Man and will be going back to that one next) that I have finished and immediately thought: "Everything about that was absolutely perfect".
The easy chemistry between Nanny and Granny is not only hilarious but unerringly truthful in a way that most fictional friendships aren't.
How often do Nanny and Granny think something negative about one another but wisely keep their mouths shut about it in the moment?
This is certainly going to be a comfort read for me in the future.
I'm getting used to the fact that the Witches Collection is not a consecutive story like The City Watch was, at least not really.
The Witches series is hilarious.
The big question in Witches Abroad is what happens when you try to force a story?
What happens when you take well known and beloved tropes and characters and force them to act out the same story again and again, even it no longer works anyone?
You can't save someone who doesn't need to be saved.Either way, great installment of the Witches series.
Witches Abroad - Terry Pratchett July 24, 2014Travel does broaden the mind.
The witches are my favorite characters in Discworld.***July 29, 2016Ten years ago I went on a business trip to Baltimore, and got to meet an until-then imaginary friend from the defunct book site Readerville.
It was lovely, not least of what was so charming was meeting my friend’s adult daughter who was charming and witty and shared her mother’s taste in Pratchett books.
And now I have a grown-up child, and another nearly so, and yes, sharing books with them is the best thing ever.
Hi-la-rious! The three witches have always been my favorite. Right after Death, of course.
So, when a favorite character reflects a darker side three books into the Witches sub-series, I relish.
I do not like her very much but as a character in Witches Abroad, Granny is magnificent.
Throughout Witches Abroad, we see Nanny deftly stepping in with impeccable comic timing and deceptive motherliness to smoothen Granny’s sharp edges.
Granny alone in a story - as we currently know her - would be too angry without a more grounded character like Nanny to bounce off.
Who says there is no happy ending?[DiscWorld #12, Witches sub-series: Witches Abroad #3, Wyrd Sisters #2 Equal Rites #1]
According to Desiderata’s will, Magrat must travel to Genua to stop a young girl from marrying a prince.
Of course, the two older witches, Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg, tag along.
In this part of the book, the author makes fun of stories and the inevitable typecast of all the known plots twists.
Do we disregard their casual cruelty?One of the protagonists, a powerful witch Granny Weatherwax, serves as the author’s voice on the issue, a warning to any who think that tyranny might be a good idea: 
“You can’t go around building a better world for people.
