https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7194.The_Club_Dumas
Arturo Pérez-Reverte - image from Periodistadigital.com Corso is an unscrupulous dealer in and acquirer of rare books.
He is subsequently engaged to find the remaining known copies of a mysterious book that may have the power to summon Satan himself.
It would help to be familiar with the work of Dumas, but still fun even in the absence.
There are references aplenty that presume an eidetic memory of great literature, or, in the absence of that, at least an eagerness to engage the Google engine to add some light.
Pérez-Reverte is one of the best known, and best-selling contemporary authors of Spanish fiction.============================EXTRA STUFF>Links to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pages
Another book on my list of "All Time Favorite" novels.
This is a book that I started reading with very high expectations and, lo and behold, those expectations were actually met if not exceeded.
Third, you have a superb main character in Lucas Corso, a cynical, amoral book detective (played very well by Johnny Depp in the film version known as The Ninth Gate).
Add all of that up and you have what the front of the book accurately describes as "a beach read for intellectuals." I loved it and I give it my HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel.
I thought the premise was interesting, but the climax was disappointing, the characters were one-dimensional (this might have been purposeful, as he was trying to draw parallels to Dumas' book, but didn't really work for me), and the was protagonist off-putting.
I wasn't bothered by the details about bookbinding and famous books as much; those, in my opinion, were more interesting than the plot itself.
Each plot line just seemed to get in the way of the other.
Also, I really thought that if Corso talked about the girl's light green eyes or the way she smelled like "youth and fever" one more time, I was going to have to flush the thing down the toilet.
in a way, he saves The Club Dumas from being completely forgettable.the narrative is shaped as a fast-paced mystery, perhaps along the lines of The DaVinci Code (a book i never finished).
it is, unfortunately, a very shallow mystery.
well, actually, two mysteries and two pieces of literature at the heart of these mysteries: one an unpublished chapter by alexandre dumas and another a diabolical tome of which only three exist and whose publisher was burned at the stake.
unfortunately, the mysteries are rather standard and the identities of the two villains (one per mystery!) are grindingly obvious.
Από τις σελίδες του περνά ο Σερλοκ Χολμς, ο Αμλετ, η Οδυσσεια και φυσικά οι τρεις σωματοφύλακες, που η ιστορία τους είναι βαρύνουσας σημασίας για την πλοκή του βιβλίου.
Εκτός από τις υποθέσεις των έργων, αναφορές κάνει κ για τους συγγραφείς, τις βιογραφίες τους, καθώς και, ο Ρεβερτε αρέσκετε να κάνει λογοπαίγνια με ατάκες από τα έργα τους.Πραγματικά αυτό το βιβλίο είναι η χαρά του βιβλιόφιλου.
Σημαντικός χρόνος στο βιβλίο επίσης αφιερώνεται στο να μιλήσει για την δημιουργία ενός βιβλίου, το χαρτί του, το μελάνι και φυσικά το περιτύλιγμα.
Όλα αυτά σε μια ιστορία μυστήριου με μεταφυσικές προεκτάσεις και νουάρ διάθεση.
It is, perhaps, one of the sole post-modern neonoir contenders to be forged unto the Must 1001 List.I watched the Roman Polanski/Johnny Depp film, "The Ninth Gate" a while back and I still remember just how searing reviews had been.
I know now why: the book is a minor gem whereas the film is a major flop.
It is because the screenplay destroyed the marvelous effect constructed o-so masterfully by Perez-Reverte, only grabbing one strand of plot (the demonic one) & doing with it what it wanted, that we don't have a good version of a book that, frankly, MUST be read (not heard, or watched).
I mean that in the most complimentary way possible however; Perez-Reverte takes a perverse delight in not just yanking the rug out from under you but practically rebuilding the house around you while you are reading, without you noticing until it is almost too late!Put simply, this is a Quest novel.
The protagonist (Corso) takes the Hero's Journey and all the archetypes are present and correct - indeed, one of them may be more of an archetype than even Corso (or the reader) suspects - and yet neither Corso nor the reader are truly aware of what quest they are actually on.It also falls into that group of novels that require other reference points to properly appreciate.
Unfortunately, the strikingly familiar formula makes the only original and interesting aspects of each – Lionel’s battle with Tourette’s befuddling his efforts to solve the crime, or The Club Dumas’ references to esoterica and arcane literature which are clearly designed to appeal to pretentious literati (okay, so it worked ;P) – seem like little more than window dressing, leaving the core of the novel a warmed-over re-run.
Hell, even the DaVinci Code contained most of the above formula.Motherless Brooklyn, with its exploration of small-time crime syndicates and short, sporadic sub-chapters (some no more than a few sentences long) which parallel the main character's own tourettic outbursts, was clearly the better written of the two.
Sensacional, qualquer um que ame a literatura deve ler esse livro. Traz elementos de bibliofilia, romance policial e uma caça implacável e incrível a um exemplar de 'As Nove Portas do Reino das Sombras', de A. Torchia. Lembrou-me muito 'O assassinato de Roger Ackroyd', mas é melhor eu me calar daqui pra diante...
WAAAAAAAAY up its own ass.
Ma se Il profumo delle foglie di limone e l’ombra del vento sono chiaramente presentati come bestseller, il club Dumas viene fatto passare per un libro sì di intrattenimento, ma di intrattenimento intelligente.Per chi ha letto entrambi i libri è impossibile non notare una certa somiglianza tra il club Dumas e il più recente l’ombra del vento di Zafon.
Perez Reverte è, o almeno dovrebbe essere, la versione più ricercata e meno ‘infantile’ di Zafon, però il suo romanzo mi è piaciuto di meno dell’ombra del vento, nonostante la scrittura tutt’altro che eccelsa e alcune banalità presenti in quest’ultimo.È difficile spiegare cosa non mi sia piaciuto in questo libro.
“One is never alone with a book nearby, don't you agree?
Every page reminds us of a day that has passed and makes us relive the emotions that filled it.
Happy hours underlined in red pencil, dark ones in black...”I almost never re-read books but I will be reading this one again...
Once I get myself a copy :)This book is like the epitome of everything I like...
dark, mysterious, a bit thrilling, literary and nerdy, devilish, and of course the occult.
I didn't want it to end!
I love Corso, but Irene is the real HBIC.EDIT: It's my lucky day.
Tự nhận mình là một kẻ không đam mê hay yêu quý gì sách vở, chỉ làm việc với sách vì đồng tiền, Lucas Corso (từ giờ về sau sẽ gọi tắt là Corso cho nó ngắn gọn nhé ^^) lại vô tình (và sau này phát hiện ra là cố ý) bị vướng vào cuộc điều tra, khám phá liên quan đến 2 văn bản nổi tiếng: Chương “Rượu vang Anjou” (“Le vin d’Anjou”) của tác phẩm “Ba chàng lính ngự lâm” và một trong 3 bản sách “Of the Nine Doors of the Kingdom of Shadows” của tác giả Aristide Torchia – cuốn sách được cho là thể hiện phương cách để giao tiếp và triệu hồi Quỷ Vương Lucifer, từ đó dẫn đến cái chết của người viết ra nó trên giàn hỏa thiêu vì tội theo tà giáo vào thế kỷ 17 ở Venice.
This book is an homage to the swashbuckling adventure story, particularly the Three Musketeers like stories of Alexandre Dumas, pere.
But I recommend it to anyone with a deep love for books (...
Which is /exactly/ what a book of the swashbuckling adventure genre should do.
Except that this book isn't about that most of the time.
And it has a higher action/creepout factor for those who like a little more "swash" in their swashbuckling homages.
The end reveal couldn't possibly be as good without that background, I don't think.As a final note: I heard there was a movie made of this.
La parte più propriamente "investigativa", inoltre, non è particolarmente appassionante e presenta alcune forzature che possono risultare indigeste.Gli altri difetti riscontrati in questa rilettura possono essere annoverati nella scrittura propriamente detta: i periodi e i capitoli sono lunghi e a volte piuttosto contorti, la prosa (in particolare nelle descrizioni) è spesso ripetitiva.Nonostante queste pecche, il libro resta a mio parere comunque godibile e molto affascinante, con un immenso pregio: trasuda a ogni pagina amore per i libri.
Gli ammiccamenti e i richiami alle opere di quest'ultimo e di tanti altri autori sono numerosissimi e contribuiscono a creare il "gioco letterario" che Il Club Dumas rappresenta.Questo libro parla di libri e di letteratura e lo fa con una passione ricca, sincera e incondizionata.
Perez-Reverte dedicates two pages (87-88) to listing all of Dumas's novels.
The title page and nine engravings and/or illustrations are actually included for the reader's visual references, along with diagrams Lucas Corso drew to aid his investigations, and a few illustrations directly from The Three Musketeers.As if all this is not enough, classic films from Casablanca to Goldfinger to Roman Holiday are also somehow given appearances.
Now, I am the first to love a reference to other titles, be it authors,films, historical figures, etcetera, but it has to actually work with the story.
All’inizio ero gasatissimo, ogni singolo aspetto del mistero legato ai libri in modo intrigante, e mi sentivo pure in difetto quando non coglievo le citazioni letterarie, dinnanzi ad un’atmosfera che rappresentava un eden di cui mi ritenevo indegno spettatore… la sola cosa ad annoiarmi stava nella passione in scala del protagonista per Napoleone.
Entrambe le questioni sono state portate a termine in modo pietoso, sembra quasi una burla; si resta davvero esterrefatti, come Corso, anzi direi pure di più.Eppure ho dato 3 stelle come voto, il perché è presto detto: Nonostante il modo indecoroso in cui è stata chiusa questa storia, non posso disconoscere il fascino innegabile che ha esercitato su di me l’unire il mistero ai libri.
Η πλοκή σε κάποια σημεία κινείται γρήγορα και αβίαστα κι άλλοτε τόσο δυσκίνητα που πρέπει να είναι κανείς απόλυτα συγκεντρωμένος για να την παρακολουθήσει.
Κι εκεί που τα χάνεις από τις πάμπολλες αναφορές σε βιβλία, συγγραφείς και χαρακτήρες, σε αποζημιώνει με μια θεαματική ανατροπή.
Στρογγυλοποιείται στα 3 λόγω της φράσης: "Έχουμε τα βιβλία, όπως και τον κόσμο που αξίζουμε".
Πόσο αληθινό...Δεν εκτιμώ καθόλου, ωστόσο, τη συγγραφική επίδειξη γνώσεων (πρέπει να γίνεται αναφορά σε περισσότερα από 30 βιβλία) που κάνει τον αναγνώστη να αισθάνεται ανεπαρκής.
Ελλοχεύει, δε, ο κίνδυνος τα βιβλία που ενέπνευσαν το συγγραφέα να επισκιάσουν την πλοκή και τους χαρακτήρες του συγκεκριμένου τίτλου.
Αυτό το βιβλίο απλά το λάτρεψα.Έχω διαβάσει όλα τα βιβλία του Ρεβέρτε που έχουν εκδοθεί στα ελληνικά,και αυτό είναι μέσα στο top 3 μου.Καλογραμμένο,καταιγιστική δράση,ζωντανοί χαρακτήρες,ένας αξιολάτρευτος πρωταγωνιστής,πολύ μυστήριο,ιστορία σε δύο επίπεδα...Από τη μία η αναζήτηση του αυθεντικού βιβλίου κι από την άλλη η "Λέσχη Δουμάς"...Στα συν,το ότι ο πρωταγωνιστής είναι "κυνηγός" βιβλίων και οι πάμπολλες πληροφορίες σχετικά με διάφορα βιβλία,εκδόσεις,βιβλιοπωλεία κτλ.,καθώς και οι σκηνές που περιλαμβάνουν μικρά μαγαζάκια,μυστικές συλλογές και βιβλία,βιβλία,βιβλία... :)Αν έχετε δει την "9η Πύλη" με τον Τζόνι Ντεπ και σας άρεσε,διαβάστε και το βιβλίο,μιας και η υπόθεση της ταινίας είναι βασισμένη πάνω του!
Nothing like a mystery involving books, the rare book trade, bibliophiles involved in various unscrupulous and barely legal dealings, and then, of course, murder. This book has many parts and once it gets going it becomes an addictive read. Enjoy. I call it a cerebral mystery as there is quite a plot to follow. If following the works of Dumas and tracing the back story on some 17th century occult texts sounds interesting (and believe me it is), give this a try.
I liked this. I really, really liked this. Give me some modern day people figuring out hidden meanings in classical literature, and I’m all over it. Thank you, Sean Gibson, for suggesting this to me. It was PERFECT.
Perché leggere Zafòn quando si può leggere Pérez-Reverte?La vita è retta dal caso e ben poco viene a collimare, ma quando troviamo lo stesso schema in letteratura ci sentiamo presi un po’ in giro.Lucas Corso è un mercenario bibliofilo senza scrupoli: compra e vende con metodi poco ortodossi, indaga sulla storia dei libri, giudica vecchi incunaboli, si prostituisce al migliore offerente eseguendo per lui il lavoro sporco, e non esitando ad affidare ad altri quello ancora più sporco.
Questo, tuttavia, non è l’unico filo conduttore del romanzo: poco dopo, Corso viene convocato da Varo Borja, collezionista senza scrupoli di libri sul diavolo, che lo ingaggia per provare l’autenticità del suo Le nove porte del regno delle ombre, volume in latino stampato nel XVII secolo e di cui esistono solo tre copie certificate.
There were parts of the story that I thought were very interesting, like the information about Alexander Dumas, his books, and how he wrote them, if it were all true.
On top of the story issues that I could not buy into, I really did not think any of the characters were all that great.
They were okay, just not people I really wanted to get to know more about.
There were A LOT of of litterary characters and books mentioned!P.S. There were a LOT of typos and punctuation marks missing in this book.
I actually read The Club Dumas because I was frustrated with the ending of The Ninth Gate.
Unlike the movie there are two books and two stories that run parallel to each other.
I love how Arturo pulls you into this musty, closeted society of book dealers and bibliophiles.
To be honest, I would never have imagined Johnny Depp as Lucas Corso if I had read the book first.
And finally, yes the ending was much more satisfying in the book then in the movie.
I want to read another book Arturo Pérez-Reverte.
Primer libro de este autor que leo y la verdad he quedado un poco decepcionada con lo reconocido que es el mismo en este genero.Creo que el mas grande problema fueron las dos sub-tramas las cuales nunca logro desarrollarlas en su totalidad, por lo que se le presentó un problema al final y se preguntó: Y como termino esto?
Eso si debo decir que cuando el autor deseaba realizar el símil con la historia contemporánea me daban ganas de cerrar el libro.No muy recomendado al menos de mi parte.
Υπέροχο μίγμα αστυνομικής πλοκής και φανταστικών στοιχείων. Και βιβλία, πολλά βιβλία.
Pollice, indice, medio e via dicendo e la risposta non è cambiata: quando ho letto per la prima volta questo bel romanzo di Pérez-Reverte, il ragazzo che la scorsa settimana ha votato per la prima volta aveva appena emesso il suo primo vagito.Superate, a colpi di cucchiaiate di Nutella e rassicurazioni di MoglieRiccia, le evidenze sopra evidenziate, recupero la lucidità e confermo che Il Club Dumas è un’ottima lettura (e persino una bellissima rilettura).Il protagonista è Lucas Corso, un “mercenario di libri da collezione”, un po’ bibliofilo e un po’ Philip Marlowe, incaricato da un collezionista dalla personalità borderline di svolgere un’indagine su Le Nove Porte Del Regno Delle Ombre di Aristide Torchia, testo demoniaco di cui sopravvivono solo tre copie dopo che il loro autore (e la quasi totalità delle copie) è stato bruciato sul rogo dalla Santa Inquisizione.
Arturo Perez Reverte joins with his debut novel a club of writers for book lovers who built their stories around rare books, dusty libraries, obscure texts or frequent references to popular novels.
Some other passages where Reverte uses dark streets , stormy nights and mysterious shadows to create the desired mood feel like exercises in imitating his favorite authors.Conclusion: a good starting point for Arturo Perez-Reverte showing a lot of promise for his later work, and a well of information about Dumas and his fellow adventure writers
WHY WAS THIS BOOK ON MY TO-READ SHELF FOR SO LONG!?!!After reading the description and for the first 85% of the book, I thought that this was only going to be a book about a murder mystery that was bookish and based on the works of Alexander Dumas.
It was an EXTRAORDINARILY well-written murder mystery, though, and really only ever-so-slightly cheesy, considering the content (c'mon now, how ridiculously hard is it to write a murder mystery based on the works of Dumas and not have it turn out at least a little cheesy??
The great writing, interesting storyline, and suspense that Perez-Reverte was able to create (LOTS!!!) was making this one a solid 4 stars.
This was a very odd book unlike anything I've ever read.
etc...The story line--I suppose it sort of existed--went something like this: Lucius Corso is a cynical old bibliophile wrapped up in a mess involving two ancient manuscripts and murder.
You'll enjoy this book if you've done some classical reading, and if you don't mind learning a bit (a lot!) as you go along...about about ancient book binding and printing, how the 3 Musketeers was written, and of Dumas himself.
