https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14864.Plain_Truth
I had pretty much figured out halfway through the book that Sarah had been aware of her daughter's pregnancy and was the one who had hidden the dead infant.
I really felt, though, that it was inconsistent of Sarah to have both killed the child and to have hidden the fact.
First, the author builds the whole story around certain ideas about this Amish community.
It seems much more likely that she would feel compelled to confess and repent, as the author explains again and again is the way the Amish are raised to feel.The ending was certainly shocking, but it just didn't feel consistent with the rest of the book.
I thought this book was pretty crummy even though it was a page-turner.
Too much filler, not enough book.Specifically:* It's set among the Amish.
However, I get the feeling the author doesn't really understand them, she just thought it'd be a cool setting.
Now, I re-read books, so this isn't itself a killer, when I like the trip.
You'd think she was being paid by the word.It did make me think of A Jury of Her Peers, which is worth reading.
I have read many of Jodi Picoult's books and I have to say this one sucked.
I was not intrigued by Katie, I was annoyed and exasperated with her.
The dialogue was cheesy in many areas, and the whole thing with Hannah’s ghost was just stupid.
I mean, it really does seem that the only reason the ghost was added was so that the author could explain Katie’s attraction to Adam.
Oh look, he’s a ghost hunter and I see a ghost—hmmm, it must be meant to be: we should have sex.
Blah.I’m really disappointed because I tend to enjoy most of Picoult’s novels.
The young Amish woman in the story, Katie Fisher, is 18 years old, unmarried and lives with her parents, Aaron and Sarah, on their dairy farm.
As young children, "the very first thing they learn is that there's always a higher authority to yield to-whether it's your parents, the greater good of the community or God." As Ellie was told by members of the community when trying to understand Katie Fisher's state of mind...
It's so that the person can make amends and move on." Ellie also learned another important fact about Katie's community..."The English culture promotes individuality, while the Amish are deeply entrenched in community.
I'm giving this book 3.5 stars because I did enjoy reading it.
But if I'm being honest, it really was quite silly.
A lawyer forced to live on an Amish farm with her client?
Sorry, but that's silly.
Straight from the plot of a sitcom.
Then there's the over-Amishing of the Amish that might stick out more for me because I live a half hour drive from where this book is set.
This book is definitely more "women's fiction" than a mystery, but for women's fiction, my least favorite genre of ever, it's not so bad.
Later, the same character said that in her desire for a baby she "wore Stephen down" and they tried for 6 months, but she did not get pregnant because "the relationship was rotten." The story line of Ellie's "problem" with yearning for a child is choppy and confusing - it reads as if the story was going one way initially and then changed course but wasn't fully corrected.
The author writes on one page Ellie's brother had "no idea" of the relationship with Katie and was shocked at the suggestion - turn the chapter and suddenly he has a huge stack of letters that he never delivered.
I loved Picoult's attention to detail throughout the story; she obviously did a great deal of research on the Amish way of life and really embraced the characters.
Her research shined through the beautifully detailed descriptions of life on an Amish dairy farm and the unique personalities of characters like Aaron Fisher.
I was not very surprised by the ending of the novel, but I did love working alongside the characters throughout the course of the book to unravel the mystery of Baby Fisher's death.
While I really do appreciate Picoult's detail and how realistic she made characters like Katie and Ellie, my biggest complaint is that the story just seemed to go on and on.
This book had five stars in my head until I read the ending, if that gives you any indication how much I hated the ending.
I have to admit that the main character, Ellie, fell a little flat.
It's getting a little old and it's only the second book of hers I've read.
I'm kind of hoping it isn't a theme, because I've had several friends promise that other stories of hers are worth reading.
I'm not sure I can stand one more two-dimensional character with a brash personality.The rest of the characters were much better.
There isn't a single one who stands out.
Jodi Pucoult has again demonstrated that she is a master storyteller. In Plain Truth, she weaves the story of Katie, an young Amish woman and Ellie, a thirty something lawyer. Well researched, this novel takes you into an Amish community where you experience life and their beliefs. Picoult keeps the reader entertained until the last chapter.
Desta vez a autora fala sobre a comunidade amish, uma comunidade que já conhecia mas que não sabia a fundo os seus costumes e crenças.
Para quem não sabe os Amish são um povo religioso que surgiu na Alemanha (e isso é bem patente no livro com várias frases em alemão).
Já ao início tinha formado duas teorias de quem podia ter assassinado o bebé e adivinhei umas delas, por isso o final para mim foi previsível mas satisfatório.
É um livro com um enredo sólido e boas personagens e com o melhor que esta autora sabe fazer: pensar sobre a sociedade de hoje em dia e os nossos valores.
My interview with the fêted author, taken from Real Bewks Magazine (June 2010):Tell us about your latest book, My Crazy Family.It is a tale of families, I suppose.
Like one part of the book is just my dad, who is crazy, talking about the time he lost a sock behind the bed, then couldn’t find it for weeks.
I’m successful ‘cause I’m just like everyone else, you know, writing about regular people I suppose.
That and the guy I paid to write my books for me.Thank you, Jodi.Hey, no problem.
For sure a favorite of Picoult books for me! I love loved this book. It was interesting and entertaining. I grew up surrounded by the Amish community and this book showcased behaviors and legalities that I was not even aware of. I thoroughly enjoyed it. This is a Picoult book I would recommend to others to start with. My quick and simple overall: Very enjoyable and hard to put down!
The Plain Truth is an intriguing and thought-provoking read. It is an excellently written and extremely enjoyable novel that's packed full of suspense. The novel is thoroughly gripping from beginning to end and will educate you and fascinate you at once. The level of research and detail that went into describing the Amish culture was amazing. The characters were realistic, well-developed and likeable, and even though they were from a vastly different culture I still found them relatable. Five stars!
I've read much better books by Jodi Picoult.
I did learn a lot about Amish culture, something I knew nothing about and this aspect of the book was very interesting and educational.
I felt that the 'ghost' references surrounding Hannah were just silly and unnecessary to the overall plot.
The ending was very flat and rushed, even with the 'twist'.
Actually the twist at the end didn't even make sense to everything we had been told about the Amish culture.
Overall an average read, if a bit frustrating.
Not one that I would be rushing to recommend, there are better Picoult books.
This book like many other Jodi Pocoult books was pretty soppy at points but was still interesting enough to keep me reading. I've never read a book about the Amish before.A little predictable.
I very much enjoyed this fictional exploration of Amish culture and how the Amish 'Plain' people live in modern society whilst maintaining their traditional, religious values and practices.
As conditions of her work, she is made to live among the Amish whilst keeping a watchful eye on Katie.
The book shines light on the often misunderstood Amish culture and I learnt a lot about Amish customs and how they live their life.
The joy of reading Picoult books is that you truly are educated about a particular subject while enjoying a fictional story.
This book was so good - but as I have come to expect from Jodi Picoult.I have ready reviews that classify her a pulp, or in the same class as a John Grisham novel...and I think that's really unfair.
Although most of the book was from the perspective of Ellie, the lawyer, the most developed character here was Katie-the Amish defendant.
She loves Samuel, the Amish suitor she's known her whole life, but she also loves Adam, the roommate/landlord of her brother.
As a reader, you know; the entire book that Katie did not kill her baby.
My daughter mentioned to me that she had read several of Jodi Picoult's books and said that she thought I should read one.
Plain Truth is the story of Katie Fisher, an 18-year-old unmarried Amish girl who is accused of smothering her newborn baby and of the big-city attorney, Ellie Hathaway, who defends her.
As a stipulation of Katie's bail, Ellie must become her guardian and so moves into the Fishers' home, and their relationship, Ellie's growing understanding and appreciation of the Amish way of life and the mystery of who killed the infant in the Fishers' barn is masterfully woven together into a drop-everything-and-read-it-cover-to-cover-in-one-sitting story.
Of all Picoult's books this is the only one (that I read, and I read ad nauseum - until the formulaic writing got me) that had a really good ending. It wasn't original, it's been done before, but in this context it wasn't guessable. The Plain Truth would make an excellent horror film a la Stephen King.
I read this several months ago and it was not one of my favorites While it gave wonderful insight into the Amish community and beliefs, I was (as I am so often with this otherwise gifted author) put off by some of the foul language and crude references. Although the truth doesn't come out until almost the last page, it was what I suspected at about page 250. That it dragged on another 200 pages before reaching the disappointing conclusion was just too much for me. And then there were the "ghost" references which were just completely unnecessary.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://youtu.be/QB8o8sYZH1o
While Ellie stays with Katie, she learns the ways of the Amish community and their practices, their ways of life, and their obvious truth.
Ellie builds a strong bond with Katie while trying to figure out what really happened on the night of the allegated murder, and also searches deep inside of herself to figure out what she really wants the most in her life.I really do love Jodi Picoult's writing.
Although she always writes about hot button topics, she accurately described the Amish community and how they lived, which made me feel privileged to be able to witness an entire book through their lives, even if it is fiction.
Jodi Picoult, I'm over you.
In this melodrama, a baby is found dead in a barn of an Amish family.
The daughter, Katie had the baby in secret, but did she intentionally kill it or was it an accident?
408 pages later after a trial and of course a love affair between lawyer and long lost love who happens to be the psychiatrist who testifies, Katie is made to wear an ankle bracelet for a year and ends up getting the Amish guy that she cheated on to conceive the baby.
It will be a LONG time before, if I ever pick up one Ms. Picoult's novels again.
Wow. I think I just found a new favorite contemporary author. I'll have to read more of Picoult.
3 1/2 stars rounded to 4. My 1st Jodi Picoult and the perfect introduction - chosen because it offered a glimpse into the world of the Amish.
I finished this book because I wanted to know how it ended, but getting to the end was pretty difficult.
Picoult used multiple narrators and switched between third-person and first-person so often that there was a few times I didn't know whose point-of-view I was reading.
About a third of the way through the book I noticed that Picoult didn't put too much focus on Katie's mother, which immediately made me think, her mom did it.
I guess it was supposed to give Katie some closure with the dead infant and her sister, but it was really just bizarre.
Suffice to say, I won't be reading anymore of Picoult's books.
How can a woman who has lost a son and stands to lose a daughter endlessly tolerate the law of her husband and church, yet act independently to do a lawless deed--and never confess it?
I think the author missed a chance to explore Sarah's insecurities and misgivings as a wife/parishioner, shown through actions of deception (Katie's trips to State College), and of course, "her deed." Sarah's failure to defend a relationship with her own sister, who had openly made decisions about her life, suggests another layer of her character.
Was is fear of husband/church, or was it too hurtful to see what she had missed?
I had resisted reading a book by this author for a long time, without any valid reason, just because I saw her all over on the shelves at Target, or something.
Boy am I sorry I did.
I really liked listening to this book even though the voices of the narrators bothered me.
The characters and the story were compelling even though they were mildly predictable, but not in a take your intelligence for granted kind of way.
I now look forward to reading other books by Jodi Picoult and am glad that I joined Amber's book club, because that's the only reason I "read" this.a to z challenge by Author P
9,5 de 10*Quando um livro oferece ao leitor, em simultâneo, uma boa história e algo para aprender, torna-se numa leitura que me enche as medidas.
Esta senhora documenta-se muito bem e escreve igualmente bem, criando livros que marcam e dão que pensar.No caso do presente livro, "Uma Verdade Simples", a autora foi buscar a história de vida dos Amish, uma comunidade pouco falada, da qual eu pouco (ou nada) conhecia.
Chamadas também de Pessoas Simples, os membros desta comunidade presam muito as relações e a família em detrimento do modernismo.
Eles não utilizam eletricidade, pelo que não utilizam nenhum dos aparelhos eletrónicos que fazem parte do dia-a-dia da maioria das pessoas.
4.0 StarsThis novel revolves around the life of Katie Fisher, an Amish girl who is accused of killing her newborn infant after concealing her pregnancy and delivering the baby in secret.
The reader is taken on a similar journey and is forced to reflect on his or her own culture as she learns about the Amish way of life.
Picoult and Current Events I have come to expect that any Picoult novel I read will tackle both controversial and socially relevant material.
While reading this book, I couldn't help but to reflect back upon the Kermit Gosnell trial and some of the horrors that came to light during that event.
