https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9800971-ernie-pyle-in-england
The book is comprised of Pyle's columns from that time.
You come away from this book recalling more the people he met and talked with rather than the strategies of the air war raging over his head, and the very real possibility of a German invasion.
Interestingly, for all of his focus on people, Pyle, after observing the layers of British defenses around Dover (and elsewhere), didn't see how the Germans could invade anyway.
The high morale of the British people, and the stark reality of those defenses, made a German invasion difficult and unlikely.
In a series of straightforward, down-to-earth, self-deprecating and charming dispatches from all over England, Pyle takes the reader on nighttime walks through the blacked-out streets of London, evenings spent deep under London in bomb shelters and up above in the comparative luxury of The Strand hotel, through the horrific bomb damage of Coventry and Bristol, into pubs all over the British Isles and on train rides throughout the English countryside and into Scotland and Wales--all the while giving a sense of exactly what life in Britain in the early days of WWII, when they stood isolated and alone against Hitler, was like.
First sentence: A small voice came in the night and said, “Go.” And when I put it up to the boss he leaned back in his chair and said, “Go.” And when I sat alone with my so-called conscience and asked it what to do, it pointed and said, “Go.” So I’m on my way to London.Premise/plot: Ernie Pyle in England was first published in 1941.
And standing there, I want to tell somebody who has never seen it how London looked on a certain night in the holiday season of the year 1940.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book partly because I'm a Londoner who grew up and played on the bombed out ruins of the city as a child.
I gave the book five stars not only because it was so readable, but for the tremendous effort he put into it--crossing the dangerous Atlantic to England, arriving in Lisbon, and then braving Hitler's bombs and traveling around England Scotland and Wales inspecting the damage and meeting the people.
His real life descriptions of the British were heartwarming and human.
He covered everyday things in detail: rationing, incendiary bombs, the blackout, millions living underground, the decimation of Coventry, British slang and humor, to mention a few.
Ernie Pyle was a well published newspaper correspondent prior to and during WWII.
He went to England in late 1940 and left in early 1941.
His purpose was to report on how the average English person was enduring the war and near nightly bombing by the Germans.
This book is composed of the articles he wrote during his trip and was first published in 1941.
These articles give a clear understanding of the times and conditions under which they survived.
I found the book to be easy reading and truly informative.I have given this book a five star rating.I obtained this book from Amazon in Kindle format.
A straight-forward and moving account of London and all of the British Isles when she stood alone in 1941 against Nazi Germany. This was written before the attack on the Soviet Union in June 1941.Pyle is an unassuming writer who always brings heart and humanity to his subject matter. He is a first rate journalist who truly knows the meaning of listening, observing and absorbing. The mood and fortitude of the English people is brilliantly evoked at this critical moment in history.
The horror seems as if it is lifted in prayer for those who perished, prayers for England and for the War to end.
Ernie Pyle wrote about the people living in the United Kingdom as the bombs rained down upon them in London, Scotland, Wales.
He wrote about how those in the different sections of cities lived, how private bomb shelters varied from public shelters.
How different classes reacted when they needed to mix in bomb shelters in for the good of the Country and their attitudes toward sharing those shelters.
This was a different book about the beginning days of World War Il and the Blitz on London.
People living everyday in the midst of war - how England reacted, and pulled together in the midst of the unthinkable. Ernie Pyle shows us the most ordinary details, and they add up to a picture that feels authentic. He describes not the epic heroes - but the everyday ones, which Mr. Pyle says have it harder, because their tasks have to be completed over and over more than a thousand times.
Mr. Pyle had a wonderful way of making you care about every single individual he wrote about. A very engaging read about what it was like during the blitz Hitler carried out on Britain to break their spirit, but he never did. Also makes you think about what it would be like if we had bombs dropping on our houses and around our communities. Let's hope it never happens.
Good bookI liked this book very much. I suggested it to my husband, history buff and Ernie Pyle fan, and he suggested it to me, reader of great stories. We were both entertained and informed and got equal satisfaction from it.
It was nice to read first hand accounts of Pyle's experiences during the Blitz in Great Britain. I've read fictional accounts before, but this book included information I'd never heard and made me want to learn more.
Fascinating read of his reports (Dec 1940 - March 1941) during his trip to England during the bombings of London. Delightful, personable writing style.
This book shows why Ernie Pyle became a legendHis easy grace with words is remarkable. This book is for anyone fascinated by WW2. His analysis was spot on.
I really liked this one!
Fascinating!Wonderful insight into the British people before America's entry into the war. Pyle's descriptions are mesmerizing. A true craftsman who died doing what he loved and did his job well.
Ernie Pyle was a Pulitzer Prize winning war correspondent.
He spent much of WWII among US troops in both European and Pacific Theatres.
Sadly, he was killed by a Japanese machine gunner off Okinawa in 1945.
Before being stationed with the military, he spent time in England during the blitz.
This book is a compilation of the articles he wrote while in England and is a fascinating first hand account of what life on the British homefront was like.
If you have any interest in what it was like to live in England amidst the uncertainty of war, this is a must read.
A definitive source material for WW 2 historians. Ernie Pyles writing is recognized as some of the best coming from a "You are there" reality copy emanating from WW 2.
Very enjoyable bookI really enjoyed this book Ernie Pyle wrote it in a way that was informative but not depressive. It made me proud our country .
Extremely evocative.. a classic of journalism.
I thought it provided an interesting insight into how the people survived the bombing - written, of course, in Pyle's excellent style.
I thoroughly enjoy Ernie Pyle's writing style. He reports first-hand on his observations in London prior to America's entering WWII.
