https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769000.The_Light_in_the_Forest
We not only had to read this in seventh or eighth grade, but for some obscure reason, the powers that be forced us to watch a filmstrip of the movie, which I think was a feature made for that series The Wonderful World of Disney or whatever the hell it was called, starring James MacArthur (yep, that's Danno of "Hawaii Five-0" Fame) playing John or True Son or whatever he was calling himself that day.
(If you were born after 1975 or so you probably don't even know what a filmstrip is, which just makes this whole thing even more depressing.) And as though that wasn't bad enough, they made us watch this thing EVERY FUCKING YEAR from sixth grade through eighth.
It has a lot in common with Schuman's much longer Strife Before Dawn, the book I reviewed previously: the two novels share a setting, and their authors were contemporaries; and in both books the return of a "captive" from the Indians is a pivotal point in the plot (though True Son here is much more assimilated to the Indian culture than Hope in the earlier book).
There is much less directly-described violence in this book, however, and what there is isn't as graphic.Any fair-minded reader will finish this book feeling that the white culture of that day has a great deal to answer for.
This very short novel is read in junior high English classes, deservedly, because the novel is engaging, but also full of issues that kids understand: alienation, moral dilemma-choices, family issues. The plot revolves a colonial boy kidnapped, then raised, by native Americans who, because of treaty obligations, must return to his real family, but who feels only tied to his native American family and culture. Excellent book.
He could not understand anything his white family did, which indirectly highlighted the conflict between white European culture and Native American life in the early years of America.
Obviously, gentle reader, there is a bigger discussion available to a class of eighth graders reading this book that goes beyond the issue of a kidnapped white boy raised by "Indians".
However, disappointingly, many of the reviews sound as if some readers believe the book was either without modern applications ("what does the conflict between Indians and whites in 19th-century America have to do with anything now?" - a common thought.
This is for young readers, but a great story of a child who was captured by Indians in araid on his Pennsylvania settlement.
He lives with the Indians untilhe is forced back to his home when he is sixteen.
The story is about a boy who is caught between two culturesand is not at home in either.
He had an interesting view of the white man: "They areyoung and heedless like children.
That's why you find so many thieves among the whites.
All white people must put what they call a lock on their doors.
The main reason I picked up this book is because I very much enjoy stories about Native American/white relations in the colonial days, particular captive ones.
This one did not.The main premise of this book is that a young man who was captured and adopted into a Native American tribe (the Lenape, I believe) has to be returned to his white family.
Native Americans would take whites as replacements for the family members they lost, but often were forced to return them after many years had gone by and the captives had become family members and happy in their new environments.
The book tells the story of a 15 year old boy who grew up among the Lenni Lenape Indians.
The return to their families was especially traumatic if they had been captured when really young.Richter does a great job of telling the story of how Johnny has trouble fitting back into his own family.
The mother and two children were killed by the Indians and Jacob and two of his sons, Joseph and Christian, were carried off into captivity.
One of the sons, Joseph, was brought back to his family by the Bouquet campaign, so this story now has special meaning to me.
BORING!!!!
On page 109 True Son gave away the Indian's plan for an ambush for the whites.
This is interesting because True Son still has feelings for his white people.2.
On page 114 True Son was fighting some white people then he found a little boy who looked just like Gordie.
This was interesting because again True Son had feelings for his white family and relatives.Questions I have about the book: 1.
I can relate this book to the Hunger Games because Katniss and True Son has to deal with a lot of violence in both books.
This is about life on the American frontier - about a young white boy captured and raised by Indians till he was 15 years old.
Then, by decree of a government treaty with the Indians which called for white captives to be returned to their homes, in return for the Indians' land, the boy was given up by the only family he ever remembered.
the boy thought of himself as Indian, his whole view of life and the world was through native American eyes and heart.
Fortunately, it is a small book and easily read in a day or so.
This book is an outstanding adventure of a young white boy who grows up with a Native American tribe in what is now Delaware.
The boy becomes very fond of the Native Americans and thinks the Indians who he grew up with are his real family.
He thinks this until his white family comes to retrieve him.
I can relate to this because when I was a junior in high school I moved to Wisconsin from Virginia.
This is close to the situation as the boy in the book because Wisconsin and Virginia are really nothing alike.
This was one of the books that I had to read for school that I really liked! At some points I was really bored and confused, but I loved the story. It was enriching, thoughtful, true, and impressing.
Lots of interesting insight and a powerful historical message, albeit a sad and pessimistic one. This is one of those books that all Americans should read.
The Light in the Forest helped me understand this time period better by showing me the distrustful relationship between the white men and the Indians.
In this story the white men are the enemy, and it was interesting to read from the point of view of True Son, the main character.
When he was 15, a treaty was signed between the white men and his tribe, Lenni Linape, agreeing to return all the white captives, including True Son. Now he is forced to return to the family he no longer knows and a culture that is even stranger to him than the forest is to the white man.
This story is a story about a young white boy who was captured by the Lenni Lenape indians.
The story is about this boy and how the military makes a treaty saying they wont settle on the indian territories if the indians agree to give all the captured whites back to the white people.
He cant to start out with, and is always fighting back but then he finds a friend among the whites and tries harder and harder sometime with brute force to help this boy accept his white blonde and name.
John Butler was abducted from his family in Pennsylvania by Native Americans when he was very small and has grown up with the Lenape tribe in Ohio to the point that he considers himself one of them, which is a mutual feeling.
When Butler is ordered to return to his biological family he is crushed and feels his life is over.
was sort of fun for me, knowing that had I read it as a child when I first remember looking at it on the shelf a lot of the historical and geographical references would have been lost on me.
I think the best genre of the book is historical fiction.
I think the best compelling literary element for this book is the characters.
I think this because the book has a cast of characters and they all have something that makes them special.
I also like how the author gave the characters realistic traits.
Even though I understood the book, there are three questions that I would like to ask: 1.
do you think the white men will try to kill true son for betraying them?
2. Will the Indians forgive true son?
Will true son try to kill his people?
'True Son' is a white boy lovingly raised by Native Americans whom is forced by the 'white man' to return to his original white mother and father.
True Son, called 'Johnny' by the whites, longs only to return to the free life he lived in the forest.
He escapes but soon learns that he walks a fine and dangerous line between the whites and the Natives.
I've always been fascinated by Native Americans and their beautiful ways of life.
I was amazed to see mention of my own Native American ancestors in this book and learned a little more about them as well.
I was so touched by the plight of the white boy, Johnny Butler who was four years old when his Lenni Lenape "father," Cuyloga, spoke the words that changed his white blood to Indian blood.
Eleven years later, through a treaty, the boy is taken back to his "real" parents and his "true" home by the white soldiers.
The native dilemma of both the Indians and the whites is shown clearly in this classic.
I cried at the ending when Cuyloga, an honorable Indian leader and good man, is forced by his cultural beliefs to send his adoptive son back to the whites.
It turns out that this book has often been required reading at some level of English lit education.
I found the book delightful, moving, sensitive and that it threw another light on pioneer-Indian relations.
I have read several books on this subject including "Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee" and I found this book more enlightening.
The story tells me that both sides were right and that both sides were wrong.
How right or how wrong depends upon which century that you were born in and on which side of the fence.
Great book!
It is a story about the awkward clash between the Native American cultures and the white/Euro cultures.
A young boy is taken from a white family as effort to replace a lost family member.
The youngster is raised as a Native and grows up loving his life and his Native family.
However, as was done in those times, the white people went on rampages against Natives to steal back white people to place them with their proper families.
This story makes a strong case and great effort to explore one example of human tragedy that may have resulted.
I read this book a long time ago because school demanded it.
It is one of the only assigned books I was given that I truly enjoyed.It's the story of a white settler brought up by Native Americans only to be traded back to his 'family' in a peace agreement.
The boy is forced into 'civilized' life, but longs to be one with his tribe again.
It is a story about finding out who you are not based on the color of your skin, but by the quality of your being.I'd advise this for anyone really, though there are some scenes of savage violence.
I remember reading this book when I was in the 5th grade or so.
Setting is American Colonies in the mid-1700's - a child is taken hostage in an Indian raid (I struggled over how to phrase this, and since they called the natives "Indians", and Conrad Richter referred to them as "Indians", I will do the same).
The child is adopted, raised in a village in the forest for over ten years, then when he is 15 years old, he is given back to his birth family.
He doesn't understand his white family, and they don't understand him.

I read this book several times as a child and it had a profound effect on me.
I stopped using a pillow, tried to walk silently in the woods, fell in love with some aspects of Indian life.
I just reread it as an adult.
I still liked it.
But I saw it in a very different light.
A boy who has been kidnapped by the Indians is forcibly returned to his white parents after a long stay with the Indians.
He hates it there with his white family and feels trapped.
Since I hate spoilers I won;t say what happens.
I read this because I could not lay my hands on any of the volumes in Conrad Richter's The Awakening Land trilogy, which I remembered fondly. This lesser novel seems adolescent (which was intentional, presumably, it's basically early YA lit) but also dated and clunky. I loved it as a teenager for its imaginative telling of every young person's fantasy of running off to live in the woods with Indians. As an adult I just question Richter's qualifications to tell that story and the verisimilitude of his depictions of both native life and white frontier life.
First published in 1953 and found in the classics section of the library, this is a good historical novel about an American child who was stolen by American Indians at the age of 4 and adopted by an Indian family. When treaties were being forged between the American government and the Indians, part of the treaty demanded that all white "prisoners" be returned to their families. This was as devastating to the Indian families that had been formed as it had been to the white families when their loved ones were taken.
This was the only book that I read for English 11 Honors summer reading that I actually enjoyed, and I've talked to a few others in my class, and they have all said that it's also their favorite out of all of the books.
I love learning about history, and one of my favorite time periods is the 1600's through 1800's.
I also really love learning about Native American cultures.
I thought this book did a wonderful job showing both the Native American's and the white's perspectives and reasoning behind things.
I definitely recommend that everyone who enjoys history reads this book.
Conrad Richter writes about the tragedies of pioneer life in a simple, clear style. His life history and research enables him to carefully describe scene settings and recapture the atmosphere of the period. I finished the book with a stronger sense of history, the Indian culture, and the sources of confilct between them and the pioneers. I was in the forest with the main character. This is a beautifully written little book.
John is a young white boy who was captured and raised by the Indians when he was four years old. This is his story of the problems, frustrations, and disappointments that he must grapple with when he is returned to the Whites. This novel shows the compassionate side of the Indian instead of the stereotypical picture.(I read this novel in the 70s when I was taking an adolescent lit. class. The critique came from one I did for the class.)
