https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61007.No_Gods_No_Masters
This is an anthology of anarchist writing from around the 1830s to WWII and the quality of the selections in it vary greatly.
Hodge-podged together you get a pretty good idea of early anarchist theory and also how the anarchists included hardly agreed on what anarchism is, not unlike republicans, democrats, communists, socialists, libertarians, etc...
I wish the theory sections weren't so utopian and got down to how anarchism in practice could actually function since the history sections show that it hasn't yet ended well in practice (lots of martyred anarchists).
I think I might have found it in No God No Masters.Now this book is no obscure collection either.
I think it ranks high on lists of must-reads for those interested in Anarchism, so I don’t know why I’m just now picking up this book.
I’m a slow learner I guess.In this book, Guerin proceeds to not just collect the essential writings of who’s who in anarchist history, but also puts events affecting the anarchism into perspective.
No Gods No Masters isn’t perfect.
An excellent anthology of writings on anarchism by Stirner, Proudhon, Bakunin, Kropotkin, Malatesta (a personal favorite), Voline, Goldman, Makhno, and others.
Seeing the relation of the development of ideas like collectivism, anarcho-communism, and revolutionary syndicalism with real-world events happening concurrently has helped me to better understand both the significance and value of the various strains, as well as why it's idiotic to propose late 19th/early 20th c.
programmes for a post-industrial, post-modern, post-deconstructivist, post-everything world.I'll say also that I don't believe I had fully grasped the weight of ideas like revolutionary self-organization and mutual aid before hearing them outlined by Kropotikin, Malatesta, and Voline.
Yes. This book thrills me on so many levels. I go back to it again and again for hope.
But most people who explicitly label themselves as anarchists actually advocate something closer to what everyone else generally associates with socialism, just more decentralized, sometimes pushing the idea of commons too far even, at least in my opinion, due to their wariness of private property.
Technically it's just egalitarian, non-hierarchical living arrangements with no official authority, which should lead to a criticism of the level of technology and scale of modern societies but somehow people keep missing that.
This is all more of a criticism of "anarchists" I've dealt with than of this book though.
the pieces in this book are certainly worth reading for their historical value.
but i read this anthology to gain a general historical overview of "anarchism" and it served the purpose fairly well.
i learned about kronstadt and the spanish revolution and the general ideas of the classics: proudhon, bakunin, kropotkin, malatesta, etc.
ie., things i should know for further study and thinking, even if they're not that useful in and of themselves.this review only focuses on the actual texts themselves and ignores the problematic selection of materials and the reduction of anarchism to particular trajectories (like in black flame).
A great anthology of some unpublished and smaller pieces from early anarchism.
This is not a good anthology for someone trying to start or get into anarchism as this is better as a companion guide through history and particular instances and feelings in anarchism at the early points in time of anarchism.
A lot of focus on communism and communist ideas on anarchism as Guerin was an Anarcho-communist.
Again this is a great supplemental guide through some of the most important figures in anarchism.
If you need a place to stay with anarchism, go straight to the main texts of anarchism such as Emma Goldman, The Conquest of Bread, Mutual Aid etc.
Oof! A gratifyingly chunky tome containing some great stuff from Bakunin and Proudhon (which was why I bought it), and introducing me to some writers that I really enjoyed: Voline, Goldman and Guillame. But the anthology isn't well put together- for example, very little from Voline's own pen, but stacks of stuff written about Voline's imprisonment by lesser lights. Guerin's commentary is also a bit sloppily written, but I'm not sure if this is him or the translation.A useful pick'n'mix if you know what you're looking for, but patchy if you're looking to read a whole anthology.
It is an anthology, so the writing quality varies a lot between parts and some of it is a chore to get through. However, this is a really good intro the anarchist history and thought. And I learned about some things I knew nothing about before. I also marked the hell out of the book, especially the Proudhoun and Bakunin parts.
I am setting this book aside for the moment because my brain is going to explode if i read anymore dry-ass anarchy essays. But it is pretty sweet.
Good selection of articles. But a bit strange. Some important Anarchist papers are missing while others are just not relevant....
Then i fell upon some of Peter Kropotkin's books on anarchy and i was deeply enamoured by the spirit of comradery and fraternity explicit in anarchist thoughts.
This anthology of anarchism by Guéren served to deepen my respect for anarchists and their endeavour towards the liberation of the masses from all forms of oppression.
This book is not a historical record of anarchy but rather a record of anarchism as a school of moral, economical, political, and social philosophy as seen through the writings of its most prolific thinkers.
The book delineates the progression of anarchist thought and its different hues of collectivism, syndicalism and communism.
I LOVE this book
Somebody (Guerin) decided he likes anarchy so much that he needs to make a book about it.
Inside there is a strange mix of biographies and excerpts of the most important books of certain authors.
And only the need for a short text makes this hagiographies look like biographies.Guerin seems to be interesting because of a shortage of authors to cover this part of political theory.
Important references are given late in the text and only a see page XX before that.Back in 1970 it might have been hard to gather all these books and biographies.
Given the opposing assumptions that Proudhon and Schmitt begin with in their understanding of human nature -Schmitt follows Hobbes and believes that human nature is evil, whereas Proudhon would like to believe that humans are naturally good, and would be able to cooperate- they reach two very different conclusions as to what the best method of governance would be - dictatorship or anarchy?
While anarchy is strictly opposed to the transcendentalization of any figure, and calls for an immanent system of governance where everyone will be equal (could be argued that equality becomes the transcendent value in this case) Schmitt argues that what we should strive for is a new transcendental figure, a God with human qualities.
However, it's not all just philosophy and propaganda - most of these authors were also actors in the revolutions and social movements of the 1800 and 1900s.
The historical context of all of these essays is really interesting, and I think it gets especially good when it comes to addressing anarchism during and after the Russian revolution.
It's hard to tell if that's because of the mythological power of the revolution, which is always extremely engrossing to me, but, regardless, it's fascinating to see how contemporaries of Marx, Lenin, Trotsky, and Stalin, viewed Communism and its effects.
A nice compilation of excerpts from a number of libertarian thinkers. "Volume One" features works of Max Stirner, P-J Proudhon, and Mikhail Bakunin. Volume 2? More Bakunin, Peter Kropotkin, and James Guillaume . Volume 3. Errico Malatesta, Emile Henry, French anarchists in trade unions, Voline, the Spanish Collectives, and so on. Volume 4 features Nestor Makhno, a discussion of Kronstadt, anarchism and the Spanish Civil War, Durrutti and his thugs.All in all, a fairly detailed introduction to the literature.
As you might expect from an anthology of anarchism, the organization of essays, squibs, etc. is a little loose. You need to have the main texts (such as they are) to make sense of No Gods, No Masters, although there is some difficult to find stuff in here too. In short, a hodge-podge, but good and nourishing nevertheless.
Dry as toast, and the translations are sometimes really weird, but overall, I think it is an important collection of writing by anarchists. In general, you can't go wrong with Bakunin and also Kropotkin. I particularly enjoyed the short selection from Emma Goldman's recollections of Kropotkin, upon his death.
Don't judge a book by it's cool cover. Over 700 pages and Guerin didn't even think to feature any anarchist women in his book (despite a few essays being included), but devoted around 100 pages to the misogynistic and anti-semitic Proudhon. There are some good things in here, but if you use it as a primer for well-rounded anarchist thought, you will be sorely missing out.
It's a collection of important texts from the anarchist tradition, but as was I think said in a review above, the choice of the texts (mostly influenced by their rarity, I precise) still is questionable for a few ones. Anyway this book can be considered as a must-have on an anarchist bookshelf.
Great compilation. There's a two book version of this, but I prefer this one. Great introduction to classical thinkers, has long excerpts from the main books (Property is theft, ego and its own, etc) Even includes malatesta if i remember correctly, durruti or something on spanish civil war, etc.
A wide ranging anthology on anarchism. Excellent collection.
Classic collection of revolutionary, anarchist thought
Almost finished. So far so good!!
A great collection of classic writings to help understand the philosophy and political worldview of anarchism.
No Gods No Masters: An Anthology of Anarchism by Daniel Guerin (2005)
