https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70490.Something_Under_the_Bed_is_Drooling
Screw Harry Potters and Katniss Everdens, Calvin is my hero with his eternal quest of abolishing healthy food, swimming lessons, and freezing his face in his queer expression.GO CAPTAIN SPIFF!
Calvin & Hobbes is an all time classic. Nothing is as good as this series. Calvin is a hero, indeed.
I feel like living a second childhood while reading Calvin's series!There are so much joy, curiosity and innocence in these pages; a valuable light reading I'm keeping to rescue me of burdens of life. Besides that, I'm now watching my godchildren grow up, and there's so much of Calvin in every one of them - most of the time the "good part" of him -, which just shows us how wonderful is Bill Watterson work.5 innocent stars to a second childhood we all deserve.
What a companion I have found! This is the most intoxicating, relaxing, nauseating, rejuvenating, nostalgic and inspiring stuff one could ever read.What did I get this time? Here's a sample
Nothing's better than some good ole Calvin and Hobbes to turn a shitty day sunny side up.
Oh, you'd rather blow the evening cooking and washing dishes than spend a few bucks?Comedy gold. Najsmesniji strip posle Garfilda>)
I've got plenty of common sense...I just choose to ignore it !!!
Love it! Especially the longer stories and the pics without text. This is my favorite:
Best way to get lost in your dreams <3
Tak tady je to naprosto jasné - už od mala jsem nekritickým obdivovatele Calvina a Hobbese, tenhle humor a fantazie je přesně mého ražení, jako malý jsem si vystřihoval z novin jeho první komiksy, část z nich u nás v rodině zlidověla* a dokonce ještě přechovávám na poličce nad počítačem už snad 15 let starého plyšového (mého) Hobbese :) Je navíc skvělé, že i roky opakované čtení těmto komiksům nic neubírá, naopak tam člověk nachází kromě dětské fantazie a zlobačení i onu druhou úroveň rodičů :) Obojí je skvělé...*Mám písek v plavkách:
¡Hermoso! Me pude reencontrar con varias de las historias selectas de 10 años de Calvin y Hobbes♥En este caso hay mas tiras sobre halloween, muchas mas donde Calvin vuelve loco a sus padres, me pareció simplemente hermoso. Pienso seguir leyendo a estos personajes, no se que hacía antes de ellos.
the comic strips are funny, and childish, and make you realize how annoying alot of things are. these books i like, cuz you can pick up the characters, and laugh at them, s=and understand whats going on, no matter what book! you can pick up book idk 45, and flip to page 100 and fully understand the characters! 10 out of 10!!
Again - great comic book from my youth. Also, you know how long it took me to realize Hobbes only came “alive” in Calvin’s imagination?!?!?
The continued adventures of an imaginative boy and his tiger. Highly enjoyable. As with most comic strips, you don't have to start with the first book, you can pretty much jump in anywhere.
I recalled this as my least favorite of the Calvin and Hobbes books I grew up with and that estimate has not changed much. That is not to say this is a bad book; there are plenty of classic panels here and you can see Watterson revving up for the long epic stories of later volumes. But he is not yet there. This is Calvin in the doldrums, and even then it is a blast.
Minus one star for the lack of snowmen.
Como não amar? Uma criança com uma imaginação super fértil, um tigre de pelúcia que vive na mente de Calvin e que juntos proporcionam muitas risadas. De forma simples várias críticas são feitas em relação a educação de crianças, comportamentos e até sobre desmatamento. Tirinhas de qualidade.
Comic strips about a 6-year-old and his imaginary friend, talking about life philosophy and human psychology with sarcasm and wits. Hell Yeah !! anytime.
And yet, "it's a magical world," as Calvin would later famously declare.
He refuses to be bogged down by the pragmatic, conformist world around him, preferring to live as if the colorful fantasies in his head are real.
My personal interpretation of the strip is that Hobbes is a real, living, breathing tiger, and everyone except Calvin is too jaded to see it.
But read it in the form of The Essential Calvin and Hobbes, which presents the Sunday pages in color.
i don't usually read comic books.
it was my brother actually that showed it to me so i read it and i thought it was hilarious.
Basically, it was just different strips and cut-outs of Calvin and Hobbes' lives.
this is me: hmmm..........okay what's the point?
^_^hey, it's, one of my first comic books, okay?
it wasn't my favorite, so sue me, but at least i gave it three stars.
i was thinking of giving it four, but it wasn't fantastic.
Overally though, i think Bill Watterson is a funny, creative, author and i'd read his books again any day!!!>Shanrox ^_^
The second collection (from 1988), this still has a few rough edges (Calvin’s a bit more sarky than usual, the design of Hobbes settles over the course of the collection) but plenty to recommend.
From the transmogrifier transforming Calvin into a little tiger to the introduction - following a botched haircut by Hobbes that makes Calvin bald - of Tracer Bullet (“I’ve got eight slugs in me.
One’s lead, the rest are bourbon”), from more school fun and more interplay with Susie, this rockets along.
Very highly recommended.
I read this in one day.
I loved it and laugh a bit.
I ended up scaring my cat, when I did.
It was a nice change to what I had been reading.
I don't think anyone can have a problem with reading a bit of Calvin and Hobbes.It was surprisingly inspiring and motivating for me.I should make it a habit of reading at least one comic book type of book a month, to remember why I love to read in the first place.
Comic books were my first love.And you never forget your first love when it comes to reading.
Habe erst in diesem Jahr entdeckt, dass mir dieser Band in der vorschnell für komplett erachteten C&H-Sammlung fehlte. Wie erwartet großartig! manchmal möchte ich mit einer Zeitmaschine oder so irgendwo aufwachsen, wo man jeden Tag neue Strips von Schulz, Watterson, Kelly oder Breathed in der Zeitung lesen kann. Patrick McDonnell ist auch super (und noch aktiv), aber mit diesem Quartett kommt er noch nicht ganz mit...
Výborné. Calvin a Hobbes sú vo forme, musím však priznať, že väčšinou som sa skôr pobavene usmievala než hlasno smiala. Štyri hviezdičky preto, lebo prvý diel sa vydaril o niečo viac. Inak absolútna spokojnosť a vrelo odporúčam. Najlepší príbeh - ako Calvin s Hobbesom našli malého medvedíka čistotného.
багато сміятися корисно для здоров'я. кальвін і гобс – дивовижно смішні персонажі. ergo, кальвін і гобс корисні для здоров'я (для роботи трошки менше, але ж чи ми будемо жертвувати здоров'ям заради роботи?).
As the father of boys, this is a great book.
Genius!
Ellie read this book because she knows her father used to read and like Calvin and Hobbes. This is the first comic book she has read....krb 6/13/16
Just an amazing book! Filled with sweet and funny storys that everyone will love. I want Hobbes as my friend as well!
It was an awesome book that was really good and I hope other people like it.
