https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/912625.The_Whisperer_in_Darkness
Lovecraft Illustrated Volume 9CONTENTS:ix - Introduction by S. T. Joshi (2015)xiii - Foreword by Ramsey Campbell (2015)003 - "The Whisperer in Darkness" by H. P. Lovecraft091 - "The Whisperer of Images" by Pete Von Sholly (2015)095 - "The Pseudo-Akeley: The Tale of Two Brothers" by Robert M. Price (2015)101 - "Cloaked in Darkness" by Robert M. Price (2015)107 - "Cosmic Trickery" by W. H. Pugmire (2015)Cover and interior Illustrations by Pete Von Sholly 2015
Odličan izbor Lavkraftovih priča objedinjenih na jednom mestu, a moram pomenuti i fantastičan dizajn same knjige, u izdanju Orfelina, koji je zaštitni znak edicije "Poetika strave".Svaka od ovih priča je podsetnik da stvari nikada nisu onakve kakvim nam se čine na prvi pogled i dvojaka opomena: da nikoga i ništa ne uzimamo zdravo za gotovo i da, šta god da uradimo i koliko god da pokušavamo da predvidimo rasplet događaja, tu igru gubimo.Pored klasika "Šaptač u tami", izdvojila bih priče "Hladan vazduh" i "Ljubav prema mrtvima". Najjezivije priče za mene su one u kojima strah ima ljudsko obličje.
Please note: This novella is included in  The Complete Works of H.P. Lovecraft , which can be downloaded for free from the CthulhuChick website. (Links where formatting is allowed)Synopsis: An Arkham university professor is contacted by a farmer living in a remote part of Vermont, who claims to have evidence of aliens living in the hills and mining a mysterious metal. After visiting, the professor becomes alarmed at the mysterious change in the behavior of the farmer, including his assertion tha
After visiting, the professor becomes alarmed at the mysterious change in the behavior of the farmer, including his assertion that the aliens can extract a human brain and keep it alive in jar for eternityMy Thoughts: One of the best things about reading Lovecraft is the way he structures the story, slowly building the details, slowly building a creepy atmosphere, moving forward and back to great effect, and then dropping a bomb on the reader with a sudden revelation at the end.
A wonderfully eerie and creepy tale of strange goings-on in the mountains of Vermont. Strange beings - alien? - are visiting the mountains for some kind of mineral and trying to stop investigations by locals and a folklore professor from Boston. Loved this story for its atmospherics and science fiction terror.
Ta ideja se provlači kroz njegove priče i iako možda nije direktno iskazana, svakako nas navodi da se zapitamo ko smo zapravo mi, šta nas okružuje i kakav nas užas može dočekati u sopstvenom okruženju a ponekad i u sopstvenom umu.Lavkraft u svojim pričama ne daje nikakvo rešenje na koji način se užas može izbeći ( osim možda samoubistvom i ludilom) i to je ono što ga toliko odvaja od drugih priča ovog žanra.Ono što bih izdvojila iz pogovora urednika dr Dejana Ognjanovića, a što nekako opisuje Lavkraftovo pesništvo je:,,U svetu koji je mnogima snošljiv samo zbog nade da negde tamo gore postoji neki drugi, bolji svet - ima li većeg užasa nego aludirati da je ovaj čemer dole samo odraz još većeg čemera tamo gore?''
Not really scary, but sort of creepy and weirdly engaging. I got a kick out of what must be one of the earlier instances of the “still-functioning-brain-in-a-jar” trope, and also from the thrill that the discovery of Pluto obviously generated. More sci-fi than horror, which was fine with me. 3 1/2 stars, rounded up by coin flip.
So far, this is the creepiest of all the Lovecraft stories I've read.
I wish I had the time right now to read all of the Cthulhu mythos stories..------------------------------------------------------This was a great story, and certainly my favourite Lovecraft to date.
What a pity the audiobook version I listened to had a narrator with such poor English language skills!
Ever come across a word you've never seen before while narrating an audiobook?
No worries - you just make up an alternative word and say it with confidence.
those of us who've ever read a book, seen a movie or heard someone speak before.
This was a fast paced story that kept me intrigued throughout.
This, to me, is the stereotypical Lovecraft near his worst.
The absolute worst is when he has a character detailing dreams.
The end.Lovecraft himself sums it up quite well on page 84 with the line: The only thing that saves this is, between all the tell and the foot dragging, there's some wonderfully creepy ideas in there, but they're never brought out.
Lovecraft himself sums it up quite well on page 84 with the line: "...their frightful effect on me was one of suggestion rather than of revelation."Not one of his better ones.
V hrobce ★★★★★Výpověď Randolpha Cartera ★★★☆☆Barva z vesmíru ★★★★★Hrůzný stařec ★★★★★Hudba Ericha Zanna ★★★★☆Šepot ve tmě ★★★★★Rytina ★★★★☆Chladný vzduch ★★★★★Divák ★★★★☆Případ Charlese Dextera Warda ★★★★☆Takže sečteno podtrženo: 4,5 ★★★★★
The way his monsters hang on the edge of existence in your mind makes their threat seem more dangerous, and far more scary.
The exception to this is stories like "the mountains of madness," which, although perhaps his most famous of the ones in this collection, was, I thought, by far the weakest.
Some of these stories might be hard to get through, they are often a little longer than they probably need to be, and his style of summing up conversations, and rarely putting actual dialog in, can be off-putting to some readers, although I kind of enjoyed it and thought it added to the mood.
The story then follows two men to the Mountains of Madness, and everything is fine - creepy, well told, interesting - until they find some murals depicting the lives of the Old Ones, and they decide to decipher them - right there.
He infodumps about the Old Ones for many, many pages - and with that, all narrative momentum is killed, the main characters forgotten, and everything that follows is made routine.I like Lovecraft's ideas, and I will continue to read his stories; I cannot, however, understand the hype that has built up around his legacy.

Apparently the discovery of Pluto caused more commotion than it's subsequent demotion
Druga priča u zbirci ,,Slika u kući'' mi je dobra na nivou koncepta i ideje, ali me samo pripovedanje nije kupilo.Preostale četiri priče moram priznati da me nisu puno dojmile-u svima njima je puno onoga već viđenog, što sam od Lavkrafta x puta pročitao.
Moguće da je i do mene, jer sam većinu onog što je na srpski prevedeno od ovog pisca već pročitao, sve mi je manje više poznato i možda sam prezasićen...možda nekom novom čitaocu ili nekom koga je manje čitao, bude mnogo upečatljivija nego meni.Ali u svakom slučaju vredi kupiti i pročitati,ako ništa drugo zbog naslovne priče Šapat u tami-koja je sjajna.
I za ovo dugujem recenziju
No creí que fuese posible pasar miedo con un libro hasta este. Me ha encantado.
My favorite Lovecraft tale because this takes place in Vermont. Not only that, one of the few writers I feel that actually gets Vermont and doesn't have a tourist feel. Oddly, I felt right at home reading this story. I mean, it mentions the Rutland Herald (a local paper I see daily). I also like this one because it was creepy. Not really a fan of horror writing, but Lovecraft hits the spot.
4.5 ⭐️
This story was written shortly after the discovery of Pluto, and Lovecraft endearingly wasted no time pinning down the new planet's identity to Yuggoth, home of The Elder Ones :-) There are some seriously mindbending celestial phenomena proposed here, part of what makes Lovecraft so unique and appealing to me. It is also yet another great dark, brooding, suspenseful tale where he reveals and holds back just enough to leave you with that delicious signature flavour of fear of the unknown.
Didn't really manage to scare me in the end, it was all a bit too vague.3) The HoundVery macabre and haunting, though more a traditional horror story than most of the other ones in the bundle.
The story and plot are great and very creepy, but it is stretched a bit.
The essential plot and idea of it are great and the ending parts are scary and intense and Lovecraft at his best.
Still a great one In conclusion, I really liked it, I can see why he is so revered but sometimes he's a bit slow for my taste, especially for a horror.
It took me quite some time to finish this book.One of the reasons for that, I believe, is because this collection was not originally meant to be read as a novel, however, having multiple stories from Cthulhu Mythos put together, it is exactly what we get - characters from short stories and novellas keep re-emerging as shadows, and everything is bound together by The Mad Arab Abdul Alhazred (Lovecraft's play pretend game name from his childhood) and his demonic Necronomicon.The list of stories from the collection can be found in the previous comments, however, let me put them here again:DagonThe Nameless CityThe HoundThe FestivalThe Call of CthulhuThe Case of Charles Dexter WardThe Dunwich HorrorThe Whisperer in DarknessAt the Mountains of MadnessNow this is where I formed my more or less definite opinion that the masterpieces of H.P. Lovecraft are actually his short stories, which are the first 5 entries in this collection.
Este libro es como una montaña rusa:Sube tus expectativas hasta arriba (te logra causar terror, incomodidad, incertidumbre) y luego te deja caer con un final bastante aburrido y caótico. Mi calificación es debido a mi experiencia lectora y es que tenía tantas conclusiones/hipótesis, que tenían mas lógica que lo que sucedió.
Nouvelle à cheval entre le fantastique et la science fiction écrite avec les ombres et la lumière d’une littérature cédant toute la place à l’imagination. J’ai pensé aux B.D. Creepie et Vampirella avec un poster de Brazil dans le fond de la chambre d’ado. Bien écrit monsieur Lovecraft.
Le style de la nouvelle cadre parfaitement avec la prose d'Edgar Allan Poe, qui était adulé par Lovecraft, et son amour pour l'auteur gothique est très apparent.Intéressant aussi de constater l'utilisation des sens pour amener l'horreur: on ne voit jamais très clairement l'ennemi, mais on l'entend, on le palpe, on le sent, même.
Peut-être que les lecteurs de l'époque, moins habitués au style, n'y ont vu que du feu, d'autant plus que l'écriture de la nouvelle cadre avec la découverte de Pluton comme planète, ce qui explique la science présente dans le texte.
4.5Otro de los relatos de Lovecraft, donde aparecen seres de otros mundos. Es horror y ciencia ficción en estado puro.
Não que eu tenha algo a reclamar, considerando que já comentei sobre Um Sussurro nas Trevas antes e, à época, já tinha impressão de ser um dos melhores contos do autor.Albert Wilmarth começa como um cientista cético, um especialista em folclore.
E conseguir provas concretas de estranhas criaturas que o narrador conclui estarem vindo de Plutão (‘aquele estranho planeta descoberto logo após Netuno’) não são condutivas a uma vida longa e tranquila.Esse conto é um excelente exemplo da forma como Lovecraft interlaça terror e ficção científica.
Por cierto, recordaba haber leído At the Mountains of Madness hace unos años pero había olvidado por completo que The Dunwitch Horror viene en The Weird: A Compendium of Strange and Dark Stories hasta que iba a la mitad.
Incluye: Dagon, The Nameless City, The Hound, The Festival, The Call of Cthulhu, The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, The Dunwich Horror, The Whisperer in Darkness y At the Mountains of Madness.Creo que lo que más me gusta es que Lovecraft siempre deja mucho a la imaginación, que es la única manera en que yo puedo empezar a asustarme.
Just a few words to describe Lovecraft's tale, both his short and slightly longer ones.The Whisperer in Darkness is the first of four volumes of books, in which holds a mixture of Lovecraft's stories.
There is something about the way that Lovecraft wrote that drawers his readers in, the mystery of the 'old ones' that he writes abouts, and of course, the terrifying Cthulha.
Not to mention, the way he might of given us even more stories and other things.If anything, H.P.Lovecraft is a name which will stay up there with the likes of Poe and Hitchcock and many others of horror greatness.
This is a book of collected short stories - Lovecraft's "tales of mystery and the supernatural", and although I quite liked the three that I read, I didn't really feel the need to read any more of them, if you know what I mean.
A bit samey?
(PS If trying to pretend have read Lovecraft at parties, many of his stories feature the crazed Abdul Alhazred's ancient and forbidden text, the "Necronomicon", and the terrifying giant being "Cthulhu" - a "thing that cannot be described" but nevertheless has "flabby claws").
