https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/486319.Iacocca
And this is where Iacocca's manner of writing - simple and playful yet emotive - helped me to strike a bond with his story very quickly.Iacocca's story starts with his father's arrival to USA (another tale reflecting the role immigrants have played in USA's success), his young days during the Great Depression era, his college days, and then his subsequent move to Ford that marked the beginning of his great career in the auto industry.
The story before his arrival at Ford moves at a soothing rhythm - almost makes you feel like your grandpa talking to you over a nice family dinner, remembering the good old days.
Even after driving a plethora of cars in last 20 odd years, I still haven't laid my hands on my dream car which happens to be a Ford Mustang (without any doubts).
A couple of years back as soon as it was launched in India, I had a very light tinkle in my eyes and I end up buying the "Autobiography" of Mustang's Dad - Lee Iacocca, the guy who made it possible.
I loved the way the whole book is narrated in first person, it actually feels like you are hearing Lee's life story from his own mouth, sitting right in front of you.
Содержание книги я бы определил так: 1) Процентов на 20 - ура-патриотические сентенции про "великую Америку", про то, как клёво быть американцем, про великое прошлое-настоящее-будущее этой страны и её экономики.
Плюс всякие гениальные идеи автора про то, "как нам обустроить Америку" :) IMHO.
Книга переполнена понтами :) Но читать про них было интересно (с антропологической точки зрения ;)))), т.к.
4) Лишь на 10% книга - про менеджмент.
Но почему-то снова преследует ощущение, что это редакторская джинса :(И в целом именно в плане понимания сути и принципов управления - книга почти бесполезна :( Да, автор довольно подробно описывает кейс с выведением Крайслера из кризиса; да, он подробно описывает сделанные шаги и совершенные действия.
Labor relations, change management, marketing, Govt.
More than that it teaches you about persistence, about having a greed for ambition, about confronting petty egos, not falling in the paralysis of analysis and doing something, and about having guts to do what might be unpopular now but right in the long term.Many of the concepts that I have learnt in the management education, finds a way in this book.
‘Straight talk’ told me the turmoil America was going through and why they elected Donald Trump as its President.More than that, it gives me a glimpse in the world of the auto industry.
It gives me a peek into the head of the man whom the world calls a marketing genius.
так давно начала читать эту книгу, что уже с трудом помню, что там было!но ок, если серьезно, есть две любопытные темы в этой автобиографии - история поднятия "крайслера" из руин, и бесконечная ненависть ли якокки к генри форду второму (это не ТОТ генри форд, а его внук)про "крайслер": якокке пришлось уволить 33 топ-менеджера за 3 года, потому что они были не в состоянии поменяться и работать по-нормальному, а также тянули за собой целые команды таких же долбоебов, как и они сами.
Lee Iacocca wrote this book while he was still seen as one of the most successful managers in American automotive history, after he had switched from working for Ford to become CEO of the ailing Chrysler, and had managed to rescue it (temporarily, as it turned out) from foreign takeover.
No dogs, no apes – only people.’” Throughout the book, Iacocca emphasizes the importance of working with people, of looking at their strengths, of giving them the opportunity to live up to their potential.
He comes from a working-class immigrant family, and, while far from a radical, trends a bit more to the Left than others of his profession.
Книга входит в список 99 книг рекомендованных Personal MBA, поэтому я решил ее прочитать.Книга рассказывает о биографии одного из выдающихся деятелей в автомобильной индустрии Ли Якокка, по руководством которого было выпущено много успешных моделей: Мустанг, Фиеста у Форд, а также нескольких популярных моделей у Крайслера.
А конце книги приведены мысли автора по важным темам в автомобильной индустрии в 80-х годах.Моё отношение:Следует сразу отметить, что у меня были высокие ожидания, мне казалось, что книга откроет какую то тайну успешных менеджеров.
Просто выпустили новую модель и т.д.Для меня самые интересные моменты в книге-цитаты отца и описание как Ли пришёл к высокому посту.интересующимся менеджментом могу рекомендовать только первую половину книги.
My absolute favorite book of all time!
I have read this book over and over again, throughout the years.
Although I'm usually into more spiritual/science type books, this one has always moved me because it's about business, cars, family, and a true super-hero.
In short; it's got it all!
I've read many books on business management, but nothing has taught me more about hard work, discipline, and even faith, than Lee's autobiography.
If I were stranded on a desert island and could only have one book; this would be the book!Beyond the greatness of this man and his book, 100% of all profits from this book's sales went, and goes, to diabetes research...All this before millionaires did this sort of thing as a marketing tool.
Lee Iacocca is a compelling and an easy to read book.Even though this was written almost 30 years back,this provides a window to the auto industry in a manner which is relevant even today.Fired at the age of 54 by Henry Ford,after serving the presidency for 8 years,Iacocca doesn't sit back and play golf.He joins Chrysler,revives it and brings it back from the brink of bankruptcy.The father of Mustang and one of the greatest CEO of all times is a man who believes in working hard and being straight forward.No wonder he is considered an American legend :)
His success story is so full of great advice and common sense approach that you can't help but try and find a way to incorporate them into your life.
What was most fascinating was how into detail he went into his firing and the corporate world that was the Ford Motor Company in the late 70's under Henry Ford Jr. I couldn't help but think that a book like this couldn't be written today due to all the confidentiality clauses that today's companies push on their workers.
Most of the book was awesome, but the last three chapters seemed a little superfluous and dated.
I recommend this book because his straight talk is very refreshing and his success as a businessman is inspiring.
Great read! A great leader for sure!
I read this in the 1980's when Iacocca was at the height of his power, having rescued Chrysler from the brink of bankruptcy.
Iacocca isn't braggadocios about his miraculous rise in Ford, having invented the Mustang, and his crash in an ugly power struggle in the late 70's.
It's part historical look at what it was like to come up under ruthless Henry Ford, part management strategy on how to run a major corporation, and part the story of the modern labor union, the high cost of business, and the legislation behind seatbelts, gas mileage, and foreign competitors.
I guess he wrote the book because of the ego. The story is quite interesting, it was nice to look inside automobile industry, but sometimes it looked like Lee was telling just how great he was and how miserable and silly was Ford and others. The book is nice to be read, but definitely not a must. Especially nowadays.
It is an amazing read. In this book the reader not only gets to know about the life of Lee iacocca but also the valuable lessons which his dad taught him and how he saved the company he joined after serving as the president at ford for almost 8 years are the take aways from the book. Following your passion is success!
The writing is so good, that it's easy for you to forget that it's actually an autobiography.But the story itself is so gripping, in a way, and gives you an insider account of the war of the cars b/w GM, Ford and Chrysler, narrated by the king himself. Written back in the 90s, the book gives you an interesting perspective of the visionary of this man.
Donated by an ex-boss who believed I may learn a thing or two from his idol. I did and bitching was one of the lessons. Man, this books reeks of Iacocca's hate of Mr. Ford and you will be reminded of it in almost everything Mr. Iacocca did at Chrysler.The very explicit hire-and-fire methodology justified is at the least very disappointing.
Quite a fast read. Simple, elegant writing of straight to the point, typical American businessman. Much to his flamboyant writing, Iacocca writes the story of the Chrysler turn-around. Any one with the slightest business inclination, should pick this up as your next read.
This book was great insight into auto leader great. It had me briefly flirting with supporting trade protectionism with respect to US fiscal and monetary policy when I was a novice on the subject. The concepts are not completely sound, but the book is an excellent autobiography on Lee Iacocca.
I have a hard time believing Lee Iacocca can handle criticism.
But looking at Lee Iacocca's autobiography, I feel like my memories are way more realistic.
It also gives you a clear idea about his time and the American mindset.
I could be wrong, but it looked like he changed his ideology the moment it stopped serving him.
When I looked at a chapter titles "Making America Great Again!", it sounded eerily prophetic.
First of all, one should strive for greatness because it'd push his/her limits, taking pride in your work or any other reason that'd make you happy.
This book is very interesting.
It tells about Lee Iacocca's life in great detail.
It tells about his time at the Ford place and I was looking forward to hearing about his time at Chrysler.
Althouth many people do not lile him for what he did, he did save the Chrysler corporation after all.
They were about to file for bankruptcy before he came in.My grandfather suggested that I read this book after he did so himself.
This is one that I thought kept you interested the whole time, I dont remember any points where I just couldn't stand to read anymore of it.
Якокка рассказывает истории о своем детстве, учебе, работе в компаниях “Форд”, “Крайслер” а также рассуждает о важных на тот момент (1980-е) темах.——————————————————————————————Кому читать?
Это интересная книга о жизни менеджера который любил свое дело и не боялся трудностей.
Предприниматели и руководители могут извлечь очень много полезного из жизненных уроков автора.——————————————————————————————Что понравилось?
1) Книга написана бизнесменом и имеет в себе много полезных советов.
Якокка рассказывает разные истории и делиться выводами, которые можно взять на вооружение.2) Прочитав книгу начинаешь лучше понимать рынок и политику США, так как автор умело “соединяет точки”.3) Нет никакой воды, в книге ровно столько текста, сколько нужно.——————————————————————————————Что НЕ понравилось?
I had heard about the book but only recently had the chance to read it.
Though the book is set up in a time that I cannot relate to and is about a context that I do not enjoy much either, yet it is an amazing read.I am someone who prefers fiction, fiction that is really close to reality but still fiction.
Yet I enjoyed reading this autobiographical novel.Why I loved the book?
Be it is his political orientation, his opinion about Henry Ford II or his disagreements with the Congress, Iacocca has been completely honest.After finishing the book, I realized that a story which is told in all its honesty can never miss the mark.
I enjoyed Lee’s story of rising through the ranks to be number 2 at Ford. Then his acrimonious departure and move to being no 1 at Chrysler and steering that company through a high profile turnaround and recovery. As well as being tough and combative he was thoughtful and clever. Some good insights into running a big business in the second half of the last century and thought on politics and economics which are still relevant today.
Для меня книга была интересной именно историей развития автомобильной промышленности Америки. Эта сторона книги очень информативная и даже захватывающая.Личная история успеха Ли Якокки тоже впечатлила, хотя и была пронизана обидой на Генри Форда. Вероятно, обоснованной. В целом, книга читается очень легко и любопытно. Рекомендую.
Life's lessons on or off workA must read for any person working. It is highly important to note all the hardships lee went through to garner a better future for his generations. Office politics and other ossues ehich will always come in the way, but still you have to live on , work harder ... A very high inspiration for all ..
The first half of the book where he detailed his rise to become the president of Ford was worthy of a four star review but the second half about his rescue of Chrysler was tedious and filled with unnecessary information.
Read this book when I just passed out of college. This would be almost 20 years back. Event today, a lot of what I read in his book resonates and I can relate to it and live it.Am amazing and inspiring read.
Undoubtedly, the best autobiography I have ever read till now. Very entertaining, very well written, never got bored in any chapter. Informative and exciting at the same time. Huge respect for Lee lacocca!!!
Interesting business man.
The best tool to learn how to make a true decision and be the true manager
