https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99452.Ogre_Ogre
I discovered the Xanth series when this book came out. I went back and read the first four. I love them! I've recently introduced them to my son who doesn't enjoy reading, but really liked the first book. I've read the series at least four times. I (in my tiny circle) led a D&D campaign that I designed based on the Xanth books. It was the most fun I had as a DM!!
at that point the book pulled things together in a very satisfying manner, and earned its 3.5 stars that I'll offer up.Piers Anthony is dependable in certain ways.
For the most part, I overlook these two commonalities, so why do I keep reading?There's more that Piers Anthony always delivers in his novels.
And I began to see that Piers Anthony had once again been more deft than I had anticipated in tieing up the loose ends in a logically consistent manner.
In this book, as in most other Piers Anthony novels I've read, the plot resolution was handled very skillfully.
I remember thinking it a hoot, and though many years have passed since 3rd grade, I remembered the book fondly.A few years back, while looking through a closing used book store, I found a paperback copy for $.50.
Various pun-loaded antics ensue.Like I said, not a complicated read, but fun enough to keep one interested.The neatest thing about it, to me, is that the book happens in the magical world of Xanth.
Anthony supplies a map of the magical land at the beginning of the book, and Xanth is, very clearly, Florida.

Xanth is a Florida shaped land filled with magic, centars, zombies and murderous trees. I know these books are geared toward 15 year old boys but I love them.
Next cookie cutter, please.Maybe I am being unfair in only rating this book 2 out of 5 stars.
Maybe what I am rating this on is my own disappointment with what I remember being so wrapped in as a teenager.
I know my friends and I waited eagerly for the next book to come out.
Even that feels like generosity.The question I have now is this: Will I read the next book?
I had planned to re-read the ones I had already ready and then read the other ones that came out after.

I read this years ago and remember it as sweet and funny, I really should re-read it. But I know a lot of the later Xanth books for repetitious, boring, and far too punny to appreciate as a story. The main character, Smash, I enjoyed because at the time I read it, it turned the whole concept of ogre as villain on it's ear - and this was long before Shrek!
To this day...still one of my favorite books. Yes it's silly. Yes it's pun filled. But at it's heart, it's the story of the "Big Dumb Guy" being more than a side character.It's him being the main character, not the sidekick there only to accrue damage so the main character can save the maiden. Cute, witty and genuinely lovable Ogre, Ogre win win your heart over.
Read this book when I was young along with other Pearce Anthony books, but he is always adding things about naked women and other sexual suggestive things that finally turned me off from reading anymore of his books.
Intelligence.
Loved the entire Xanth series when I was a boy.
Her father is a soldier that spends the majority of his time working for the King above-ground at Castle Roogna.
Having no experience with the surface, she tells the nightmare that she will release her if she drops her off at Castle Roogna.
However, Good Magician Humphrey decides that his answer is to escort Tandy (who has been serving her year for her question she asked when dropped off at the castle) throughout Xanth.
I recommend it for all ages, and there is no need to read the other Xanth books to fully get immersed in this one!
Tandy is half human, half nymph.
Their very different quests find common ground when the Good Magician Humphrey sends them out into the wilds of Xanth together to seek their 'answers'.Along the way Smash takes six more female creatures in tow, all of whom also have unfulfilled needs.
The reader still wants to find out how and where the 'light bulb' will finally come on.As in all of the Xanth novels up to this point, the hurdles, obstacles, threats and conflicts that the protagonists encounter come thick and fast, one after another, almost always in series.
Because of Good Magician Humphrey, he's travelling with Tandy who is the daughter of a nymph named Jewel and the Castle Roogna guard (and friend of Dor's father Bink), Crombie.
They also get additional travelling companions along the way and run into more characters we already know from the first four books.
"You mean you folk like me?"74% - Ignorance was not necessarily bliss, as any smart creature would know.94% - What did he want with ogres anyway?
This book is were Xanth finally grows a beard (to mention a trope).
He was always male and always of Magician calibre.But Smash, although male and strong (he's an ogre) is not the hero type.
Smash shares his quest with 7 women who are all far more intelligent and talented than he.
Smash is of mixed origin (his father was an Ogre and his mother a Curse Fiend) and finds that he doesn't fit in with either culture.
Their quest has them map the upper half of Xanth while finding mates or places for each of the other persons (all female) that they encounter.
"When a Nymph rides a Night Mare, Ogre beware!" the tagline reads, certainly grabbing my interest as the night mare Mare Imbrium is my most fave character.
In this novel, Smash the Ogre and Tandy, are part of the second generation of the original Xanth characters.
I know that the fans love it and have started writing Piers with all their punny suggestions.
Getting a shout out from Piers at the end of his novels!Starting out the novel, Jewel and Crombie's daughter Tandy escapes a demon.
Crunch the Ogre & a human curse-fiend's son, Smash, comes to the castle a year later.
Piers even writes in Smash getting temporary intelligence!
Anthony adds humor to his writing, and takes logical things and turns them into magical items, transforming you into a unique and vividly colorful world with descriptions to rival Lewis Carroll and Wonderland.The great joy of this book is that it almost feels like you are on an acid trip (he also happens to mention acid heads in the story).
The story itself moves along at a great pace with one adventure after another, one obstacle after another in which the members of his small party get a chance to display their own unique talents.
Ogre Ogre is another pun filled tale taking place in the land of Xanth.Smash is half Ogre and half Curse-fiend but he considers himself an Ogre.
Finding himself at the Magician Humfrey's castle Smash receives an answer for a question he does not ask.
Their travels across Xanth cause the group to grow and Smash finds himself surrounded by girls he feels the need to protect.
Despite her ability to protect herself a demon torments her relentlessly so Tandy seeks the help of the Magician Humfrey.
After staying in the castle as a guest of the Magician Tandy is set out with Smash despite her protests.
If you’re looking for the best that Piers Anthony has to offer, look no further than the fourth book in the Xanth series.
While some of the previous novels felt as if the writer fell in love with a pun and simply let himself get sucked into the Void, Ogre, Ogre is a tight story that leads to a very satisfying conclusion.
In helping Smash learn his true purpose in life, these characters also find what they need most.If anyone is wanting an introduction to Piers Anthony, this is definitely the book to start with.
I probably read this book too slowly, which made me think the middle was boring.
Every Xanth book is about the same length and they tend to follow a similar formula of get the adventure going, seemingly random things happen while the characters journey from here to there through the middle, pull all those random things together into a tight knot at the end.
Not a bad formula, but it tends to cause my eye to wander while all the seemingly random things are happening, which is probably why it's best to read the books as quickly as possible so that the middle doesn't seem so boring.
With book 5, the Xanth Series is firmly following the second generation of characters.
Though Jewel and Grundy make cameo appearances, the main characters are Smash and Tandy, who are both offspring of original Xanth characters.
In this book Tandy, the daughter of Jewel and Crombie, escapes from a demon by riding a Night Mare to Magician Humphrey's castle.
About a year later, Smash, the son of Crunch the Ogre and and a human curse-fiend, arrives at the castle.
In addition to this, Smash becomes cursed with intelligence!This was another fun addition to the Xanth series.
I grabbed this because I needed a book that would be easy to hold as opposed to the over 800 page main book I'm reading (Bully Pulpit).
I got a bit bored when he started repeating themes he's used in other books like having the protagonist enter fantasy worlds within other fantasy worlds to solve an issue.
Or maybe those other books copied the idea from this one, this is a fairly old title of his.
However, this was a fairly fast light read, which was exactly what I was looking for at this time.
I do recommend this book; just don't expect it to be more than it is: light entertainment.
This was, though, the worst Xanth book I've read.
I mean, for one, Dor/Bink aren't in it!
(Well, Dor is briefly in it but still...) Also, it's about Smash, a half-ogre, and seven seemingly random females of Xanth.
And I didn't really like how Smash conveniently was cursed by the Eye Queue from almost the beginning to almost the end, conveniently making it so that his dialogue didn't have to rhyme the whole time.
Seems like a certain someone got tired of thinking up rhymes...another thing that I just couldn't let go, like, aren't goblins supposed to be quite rare on surface Xanth?
I loved how it talks about consent in sexual relationships and I really like Smash the Ogre.
(view spoiler)[for example, I found myself cheering as Smash shoved that dirty demon into the nightmares world!
(hide spoiler)] I love how Tandy and Smash (view spoiler)[fell in love slowly as they traveled.
(hide spoiler)]I did like this book--but I guess something just felt "off".
It was never explained how (view spoiler)[someone could just give there soul to someone else (hide spoiler)] and that kinda bothered me.
The Xanth books by Piers Anthony were one of the first SciFi/Fantasy series I ever read. I love puns so I have always enjoyed them. Upon re-reading them I can see that they have some weaknesses but overall they stand the test of time. They are a fun and fast read that keeps me amused without any deep thinking required.
The Xanth books are a cross between fairy tales and fantasy. You finally find out where nightmares come from: mares that come out at night. That means there are also day mares. This is probably my favorite of the few Xanth books I have read.
The Xanth novels are a quick, fun and funny read. Great starter books for young fantasy readers. There is a ton of them and you can pick up any of them and start. Very recommended
One of my least favorite Xanth titles...
A bit racy and sexist to start with but as always with Anthony punny and engaging.
