https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7544603-smaragdgr-n

SpoilersWhat's what: Time travel, vague prophecies, silly heroine, douchey hero, evul Count with nefarious plans, oh noes, can silly heroine/douchey hero stop evul Count?-Gwen was a mopey cow, all she did was whine about Gideon, jump to conclusions about him, and get jealous whenever he was around other girls.
Why was Bernard a butler when Lucy/Paul ensured their kids/grandkids would have loads of money?- I liked Gwen's relationship with her immediate family, also her friendship with Lesley was really sweet.-Gwen's cousin, Charlotte, was the typical mean girl that hated the heroine/Gwen because she wanted the hero/Gideon all to herself.
-Why would Gwen want to date Gideon when she didn't even know the details of his relationship with her cousin?
*starts crying again* Even if their relationship was formed in only a couple of weeks,maybe a month, i really loved them together.
:'') ♥ Xemerious,Lesley,Caroline and Nick,Gwen's mum, Lucy and Paul,Mr Bernard, untie Muddy or whatever her name was xD Well even Charlotte..i'm going to miss them all.
♥ As i've already said in my Ruby Red review,i love Doctor Who and my heart belongs to anything Jane Austen and Victorian..and i love YA books like Cassandra's Clare books, so Ruby Red trilogy just had it all for me.
Forever is such a great word,but mostly nothing lives forever.
or maybe re-read the whole trilogy!!
"Did you know that Gideon and I were trained in Krav Maga?" Charlotte took another step closer to me, and I automatically took one back."No, but did you know that at this moment you look like that crazy rodent in Ice Age?" It was a cute ending. Overall Precious Stone Trilogy was a cute and fast paced story. I wish whole event took more than 2 weeks because it seems unreal to fall in love this deeply and learning all the information in 2 weeks.I wasn't expecting the last turn of events at all! (
"Did you know that Gideon and I were trained in Krav Maga?" Charlotte took another step closer to me, and I automatically took one back."No, but did you know that at this moment you look like that crazy rodent in Ice Age?"
It was a cute ending.
Overall Precious Stone Trilogy was a cute and fast paced story.
(view spoiler)[(mr.whitman was cont wtf!?
I knew something was off with that squeral!) (hide spoiler)] It was a fun read and if you're looking for something to kill time I'd say pick this books.
3.5 I really enjoyed this book and the series overall. However, I found the story (especially the end) a tad too convenient. Also insta love was SO present. And Gwen was a drama queen and didn't really have her priorities straight.
From that on, it was all about Gwendolyn's raging hormones and how she just lost her senses around plain and bland Gideon (those descriptions making him seem like a greek god don't live up to how actually he delivered), and even in the most important moment she could only think of making out with him, that was really annoying.Then, the time travels were even more confusing than ever, that insistence that they had to elapse at a certain time to meet with the count with no explanation wasn't really well founded, given that they always asked how did that matter if they could elapse any other time at that same exact date they were supposed to, but never got a REAL AND COHERENT answer.But the thing that mostly upset me about this book was how anticlimatic it turned out to be.
4 Stars!(BR with Lexie) -We can't stop time, but it will sometimes stand still for love. PEARL S. BUCK Emerald Green is the final book in the story of the two in love time travelling teenagers Gideon de Villiers & Gwyneth Shepherd. Gideon is this gorgeous cool guy all the girls are after & Gwen is the 16 yr. old normal girl in HS who is thrown into the world of time travel, & can also suddenly see ghosts. Gideon & Gwen are part of a secret group of twelve time travelers. They are
Emerald Green is the final book in the story of the two in love time travelling teenagers Gideon de Villiers & Gwyneth Shepherd.
Gideon & Gwen are part of a secret group of twelve time travelers.
They are forced by the guardians to travel together back in time to the eighteenth century & beyond & in the process fall in love.
This book has bad guys, action, mystery, & love, & is full of secrets & lies.
I really enjoyed this series & adored Gideon!!!
I especially enjoyed this book since I BR it with my sweet daughter Lexie!
Soñé que tenia mal mi libro y que le hacia falta algo!¿CUAL ERA SU MALDITA PRISA POR TERMINARLO?
Ya sabia que sus comentarios sobre ella y Gideon eran más que falsos!Robert, mi vida *o* me encanta ese niño!Xemerius y sus ataques de nervios, me matan de risa!Lucy&Paul, me encanta cuando están juntos.El Conde versión 2011!
JAMAS ME IMAGINE ALGO ASÍ!!!!Ahhh *suspiros* y Gideon y sus frases de amor, me harán suspirar muchísimo tiempo!
"¡Mierda, estoy tan terriblemente enamorado de ti que es como si hubieran volcado una lata de gasolina en mi interior y le hubieran prendido fuego!"No tengo problemas en releer la saga muy pronto!
This was the best of the trilogy because it played with time travel the best.
I read them all back to back and I'm not sure how the books would really stand up on their own because there was definitely only one arc that you had to wait until book 3 to see any twists or payoff.
One twist was soooooo transparent though, and I felt like this just could have done more with the cool premise.Caution - LOTS of fat shaming throughout.
Descriptions like "his 15 double chins were wobbling," being likened to large animals, and fat characters always being out of breath.
Ben çok sevdim bu seriyi, yazarı, karakterleri ve özellike Xemerius'u.Gwen de en sevdiğim kız karakterlerden biri oldu ve denilenin aksine hiç de onursuz, gurursuz gelmedi bana. İlk iki kitapta sevmiştim ama yorumları okuyunca bu kitapta soğurum sanıp korkmuştum biraz. 16 yaşında bir kız zaten başka nasıl davranabilirdi ki olaylar ve hissettikleri karşısında? Tepkileri gayet gerçekçi ve eğlenceliydi.Bir günde okuttu valla kendini. Zaman nasıl geçti anlamadım çünkü aşk tüm zamanların içinden geçrdlfkjdl şaka şaka yapmicam tamam sabahtan beri ders de çalışmadım zaten bunu okuyacağım diye.
SI NO LO HAS LEÍDO; CRÉEME NO QUIERES ENTRAR AQUÍ; LO DIGO ENSERIO!Robert me encanta & odie que saliera tan poco :/Xemerius TE AMO<3 ame sus relatos cuando los G's estaban juntos & sus ataques de nervios en los momentos preocupantes fueron lo mas jajajajaja "Me compras un gato?" Ame cuando se puso todo celosio con Robert jaja *.*Gideon de Villiers pequeño rebelde me e n c a n t a s *.* yo te como enterito algodón de azúcar <3 jaja asombroso como siempre el G!
Αχ μολις τελειωσα μια ακομα αγαπημενη τριλογια, μπορω να πω οτι περασα πολυ καλα με την παρεα των απολαυστικων βιβλίων της Kerstin Gier.
These scenes are slightly gory, but not bad compared to the stagecoach shootout in Ruby Red.Sex: Gideon and Gwen exchange several snogs, as do (view spoiler)[Raphael and Leslie (hide spoiler)].
Xemerius makes a joke or two about Gwen losing her virginity, which doesn’t happen.Language: The word “sh**” is used a handful of times.
Gideon, Leslie, and the rest are also allowed to be flawed and awkward, which makes them seem much closer to real kids than the average cast of a YA book.
But it was really cute that Gwen liked them both.The weakest part of the series winds up being the world-building.
I really enjoyed this book, in fact, the entire trilogy has been amazing.
I think all the problems I had with Gwen's age or whatever, did not matter so much because this story is very, very good.
It's true that perhaps, this could have been better as a standalone or a bilogy, but anyway...I think, my only objection is that the story takes place on a couple of weeks, maybe two in total.
And so, the love story felt quite rushed.
I repeat, LOVE TRIANGLE FREE.The ending was a little bit disappointing compared to how exciting is the story in general.
Anyway, I can say that this series became one of my favorite trilogies.
I really enjoyed this series! This book was a good conclusion to the series. I was expecting a bit more but in the end I have no complaints. I read this trilogy pretty quickly because I was so entertained with plot. I am currently in the process of reading the author's Silver trilogy, which is also very good!
Ist auch nach dem gefühlten 10 mal gelesen mein Lieblingsbuch in der Reihe.
Nachdem mir "Rubinrot" und "Saphirblau" schon so gut gefallen haben, war ich richtig neugierig auf das Finale (denn bisher habe ich auch nur die ersten beiden Filme gesehen 😁).
Das Ende habe ich so nicht ganz kommen sehen, aber es hat mir wirklich gut gefallen und bin sehr zufrieden 😍😍.
Solltet ihr diese Reihe noch nicht gelesen haben, kann ich sie euch wirklich empfehlen!
Nur rate ich euch, dass ihr die Filme erst seht, wenn ihr alle Bücher gelesen habt, da in den Filmen nicht unbedingt alles in der "richtigen" Reihenfolge geschieht (und natürlich einiges geändert wurde) 😊.
This time around, however, she made me roll my eyes all the time whenever she was speaking, and the same happened with her love interest, Gideon.
There were still some funny and mildly exciting moments, but the third book in a trilogy is supposed to be fast-paced and impossible to put down, and this one was just underwhelming.
Sometimes the pacing got better, and we got some of the exciting moments we'd had so often in the first two books, and Gwyneth was still funny when she wasn't too busy crying over her lost love or hating on other girls.
Až se s blížícím se datem vydání začínáte bát, jestli se něco nepokazí a kniha nebude úplně strašná…Jsem ohromně ráda, že vás v tomto případě můžu naprosto upřímně ujistit, že nic takového se u Zelené jako smaragd rozhodně nestalo.
Pokud se váš vztah k němu teprve vyvíjí, tak věřte, že tady se vám budou díky němu podlamovat kolena.
Jednoznačně totiž ví, jak napsat pořádný příběh, který je sice zamotaný, ale čtenář se v něm za žádných okolností neztratí.
Nejde ani tak o to, že byste dopředu jasně věděli, co se stane, ale že hlavní pointa příběhu je čtenáři jasná už od prvního dílu.
And so ends the wonderful re-read of this series. Gwen and Gideon will always hold a special place in my heart. There were a few loose ends I feel like could have tied things up a little more nicely but it's fine, really. I enjoyed the final epilogue with Lucy and Paul too--it was nice to see everyone had their happily ever after. :)"Ready?" I asked with a grin."Ready when you are," he replied, grinning back.
I love Gwyneth and Gideon as characters and as a romance.
Like where did the chronograph come from and why did it work the way that it did and why did it create a philosopher's stone?
While reading this series I decided to watch the German movies as well and I really enjoyed them.
Gideon is super hot, and Gwyneth is lovely and suits the 18th century clothing even better than our own.
The first movie was better than the second.
You probably shouldn't watch the movies until you have read all 3 books.
Suele pasar, en este tipo de libros, que uno de los factores clave es el romance, sin el cual la saga no tendría sentido.
Creo que esta saga es diferente, porque aunque tiene romance, no creo que sea lo central.
Fuera de eso, hay una multitud de personajes únicos que aportan a que sea una historia entretenida y liviana, como Xemerius, Leslie, Raphael, la tía Maddy, Caroline y Nick, mister Bernhard...
Aunque algunas cosas no tuvieron mucho sentido...
¿Y como obtuvo la cosa el Conde, si se supone que nadie del presente se la pasó?
(hide spoiler)]Aparte de eso, el libro es muy bueno.
Actual Rating; 4,5Hello, plottwists! I love these books so much and they should get more attention. The series is in my top3! But I really love the relationship between Gwynneth and Gideon. They’re so cute! This was my 3th or 4th reread. I didnt understand the sexual references the first few times. This time I got them all. Xemerius is a king in those :’). If there wasn’t a xemerius in the books, then it would have been kinda boring! But needless to say that I love theses books!
Ich liebe die Geschichten von Kerstin Gier. Sie sind wundervoll fantastisch, witzig und gefüllt mit liebenswerten Charakteren. Auch in diesem Buch trifft dies voll und ganz zu. Die Trilogie hat mir sehr gut gefallen und ich vermisse die Welt der Zeitreisenden schon jetzt.
<3
I don't know how many times I have already re-read these books, but it's always funny to read them, no matter how old I am.Emerald Green is the last installment and it's definitely as good as the previous two.
Without Gwen wouldn't still know the truth ;) I also really liked Gideon in this book.
Every question we had while reading the first two books are answered in Emerald Green.
Than, Goodbye Gwen and Gideon!“Gideon grinned down at me.
“Ready?” he whispered.“Ready when you are,” I replied automatically.4.5 stars for Emerald Green and for the whole trilogy
Although this was by far the best book out of the three, I'm still extremely relieved that it's finally over! I had heard so much good about this series and was extremely disappointed. I did really enjoy the time travelling aspect but the characters were two dimensional and very juvenile. I just couldn't relate to them at all. All three books are going into a pile to bring to my local used bookstore in exchange for books I'll hopefully enjoy more!
Despite being unhappy with the ending, I still really enjoyed this series as a whole. I wish they wouldn't have wrapped things up so quickly and gave a bit more details throughout the book. It has potential to be a 5 star book, but there were just a few things that were left to vague that caused it to miss the mark. I wish there was one more book in this series to continue the story on. The author could easily get more out of this story.
DIGANME QUE NO TERMINÓ, DIGANME QUE NO TERMINÓ, DIGANME QUE NO TERMINÓEs que...los voy a extrañar...No puedo reseñar esto ahora, no.
I really liked all three books in this trilogy.
The plot is pretty simple but the books are very fun and pleasant reads.
I enjoyed all the books and I especially liked the quotes scattered around in the books.
I finished this trilogy without breaks in it and I think it's pretty fast paced.
I feel like most of the plot took place in this book, but that could be because I've gathered information from the first two books.
Overall, I had a good time reading this trilogy and rate it 4 stars.
