https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/213618.The_World_of_Apples
O melhor contista, ao lado de Tchekhov. E Borges (tudo bem).
I'm ashamed to say that as a 24 year old Writing, Literature and Publishing Major I had never read a complete book of John Cheever's short stories.
I actually ended up buying this book on Amazon after hearing it mentioned in a movie.
Odd way to hear about a book, I know.
I'm not normally a short story girl but the imagination, characters, intriguing often a bit random storylines were captivating.
It's not a light read, that's for sure.
I would highly recommend this to anyone who was looking for a creative collection of thought-provoking, sometimes dark short stories.
Cheever is a modern American writer with calm insight into the middle-class suburban life.
He address themes similar to John Updike and John Irving: shadowy desires amid Victorian morals that won't seem to die, normal people who cope with routine life through unsavory fantasies, and alienation from living inauthentic lives dictated to characters by the wider American culture.
Cheever has far less comical, and outsider characters facing bizarre circumstances than Irving.
His characters are ordinary people, living uneventful plotlines with unique internal tensions.
His characters are positively more agreeable than Updike's.
These are subtly absurd, well-written short stories that, oddly enough, frequently took exactly 17 minutes-- the length of my train rides to and from work-- to read.
The World of Apples by John CheeverComplex, intriguing, funny and sad at times- Is Asa Bascomb a source of inspiration for Richard Ford?As I started reading on the World of Apples I was just wondering if there is a connection between the hero of this story and Frank Bascombe, the one who travels through The Sportswriter, Independence Day and two other novels…Asa Bascomb is a writer, but unlike Frank Bascombe, not a Sportswriter, and he has won a series of prizes.He did not win the Nobel Prize, b
They had not bothered to undress and the only flesh visible was the stranger’s hairy backside.”And later takes a rather bleak view of things-	“Obscenity—gross obscenity—seemed to be the only factor in life that possessed color and cheer.”The poet takes a bus to Rome, where he meets a male whore- an expression I am unaccustomed with.Then he takes in a concert, where he starts imagining that he undresses the soprano, with zipper and slip over her head.And will stop at this scene, which is not the last in this short story that acts somehow like a fresco, since we mentioned plastic arts earlier…	“A man, his wife, and three carefully dressed daughters got out of the car and Bascomb stopped to watch them when he saw that the man carried a shotgun.
Ufuk açıcı cümleler, ufuk açıcı öyküler. Yüzücü'den sonra bu kitabı da çok beğendim. Amerikan öyküsü beybi.
Sort of like Raymond Carver crossed with James Thurber. Not at the level of either, but that sets an awfully high bar
I first read these stories over fifteen years ago as part of The Stories of John Cheever(1980) and I remember being struck by their muted strangeness and a melancholy and pervading sense of middle-class New England alienation and otherness. Rereading them now, I find myself struggling between giving them three or four stars. I agree with Goodreads reviewer Diane Dunning in that the best thing in these stories is Cheevers prose, which flows serenely on and seems to carry you along effortlessly. S
I also find one of the editorial reviews to be spot on:Innocent, old-fashioned, self-aware, Cheever's people are summoned by strange and improbable events to ponder the values they have been taught to trust...decency, common sense, nostalgia, even truth.
. In short , in the dappled world of Cheever´s fiction, what you get out of his stories depend a great deal on your vantage point and experience.
In the end, still wavering between three and four stars, I tend to endorse Gina´s recommendation:I would highly recommend this to anyone who was looking for a creative collection of thought-provoking, sometimes dark short stories...

A friend gave me this book years ago, soon after the collection was published.
For some reason I never got around to it until now.
I wavered between rating it three stars or four.
In the end, I'm giving it four stars, primarily for the quality of Cheever's prose.
The stories themselves are uneven, I think.
My favorites are probably "Artemis, the Honest Well Digger" and "The Fourth Alarm." From the latter: "I asked for a divorce.
She said she saw no reason for a divorce.
But just a typical dilemma for Cheever's characters.
Having only read Cheever's The Swimmer (and spurred only by the movie which starred Burt Lancaster), I couldn't resist another bite out of this here apple. One can't help noticing Cheever's consistent choice of adjectives: bellicose, puerile; then there's his constant reference to water and rain. And once again, these pathetic, disillusioned suburban husbands to harridans.
I have to say, this wasn't what I expected at all. My favorite story was the first one in the collection, the Fourth Alarm, which gave suburban life a dream-like veneer, and that's what I expected for the rest of the book. Unfortunately, I found the rest of the stories to be haphazard, sophomoric even, and homogenous in their mediocrity.
A great little book. Of the short stories, my favorites included Artemis, the Honest Well Digger, The Chimera and The World of Apples. I discovered Cheever through a friend who on a road trip was kind enough to share his work with me by graciously reading while I drove one of his short stories entitled The Swimmer.
A witty and charming collection of short stories. I bought this from a used book store and found two four-leafed clovers in it. I have read this collection over and over and never tire of the stories.
A collection of good, short downers capped off by the fairly optimistic titular story. Cheever's prose is effortless, even when the fiction veers off into experimental territory. Lots of mommy issues are on parade here.
My review on Fiona's Fiction:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gxBcT...
Mostly depressing stories about ordinary people. İ like the way he describes his characters and i love the way he reflects their inner worlds.
Not Cheever's best work but still better than most contemporary short story collections.
If you appreciate not only good stories, but also the ways of expressing them with words, you'd love this little book. Cheever reminds us that life is a constant flux, the mix of "real" and magic things, perceptions and impressions, feelings, dreams and fears...
Did my MFA critical thesis on Cheever. I have the 1973 Knopf hardcover, (not first printing).
Short stories from a master. Highlights are "Mene Mene Tekel Upharsin" and "The Honest Well Digger"
The one and (almost) only. Filled with a knowing intelligence, gin and humor.
