https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2562383.Mr_Weston_s_Good_Wine
Mr Weston seems very fond of the villagers of Folly Down, but he envies them mortality; God wishes that he could die and says that he will drink his own wine of death one day.The villagers are a set of very colourful characters; the vicar Revd Nicholas Grobe, does not believe in God since the death of his wife in childbirth, his daughter Tamar is an innocent who wishes nothing more than to be loved by an angel; preferably the one in blue trousers on the sign of the local pub.
The story opens with Mr. Weston getting off from his delivery vehicle containing wine.
that makes me think that Mr. Weston (view spoiler)[or God himself (hide spoiler)] is making us decide, using our own freewill, what kind of life we want.There are just too many characters and there was a part in my reading when I felt bored because I felt I no longer care who are some of them.
What is surprising, though, is Powys' openness to sex that makes this book, in my opinion, still quite unconventional.
So maybe, he got the sex part from Freud and his being unconventional from Nietzsche.
Meglio che niente persino una sorella che fu un fenomeno nella creazione di pizzi e merletti.E’ definito romanzo metafisico e sicuramente la definizione ci sta.Ma ci sta anche che è un racconto felice ovvero ben riuscito e appagante.Folly Down è un villaggio archetipo di tante piccole aggregazioni umane, dove i desideri, le debolezze, i dubbi e i dolori sono quelli di sempre come peraltro le corruttele, le violenze, le aspirazioni, i vizi.
In questo villaggio arriva un visitatore: da alcune dichiarazioni di potrebbe pensare a Dio, accompagnato dall’arcangelo Michele, che è venuto a vendere il suo buon vino.
Un tempo sospeso, in cui il fuoco nel camino non si consuma e l’orologio segna sempre la stessa ora, “La durata stessa è incline alla danza o a reggersi su una sola gamba, perché una sera d’inverno, qui, viene spesso percepita come un intervallo di tempo lungo come tutta una vita e ancora più di quest’ultima sembra ricca di improbabili eventi.”L’unico tempo in cui tutto è possibile, dal momento che “So che qui nulla vi è di certo finché il tempo scorre.
A wine-seller, Mr. Weston, arrives with his assistant Michael at the village of Folly-Down, a small English village populated by an atheist vicar, his teenage daughter, in love with an angel she once saw painted on an inn signboard, an allegedly promiscuous gravedigger, a mystical young man who wanders the fields converting bulls and geese to Christianity and a variety of other colourful and often very unpleasant rural eccentrics.
Like many truly memorable books, Mr. Weston's Good Wine is often hard to read.
Mr Weston's Good Wine is a dark book, but never a bleak one.
That it is intended as allegory is obvious from page one, but what the underlying theological points are is less clear.
But I've mostly read religious allegory from the Catholic and Anglican tradition; maybe Powys belonged to a sect with which I'm unfamiliar.Strong point: prose.
The use of dumb-country-people dialect is rather heavy and sometimes becomes irksome, but overall the writing flows pretty well and is interesting.Weak point: All the characters are hateful.
The story REALLY begins when Mr. Weston enters the inn on page 112 (Chapter 20), and it picks up a little bit and plateaus for a while and sort of ends with a whimper.The conceit of the book is really interesting—a(n anti-) Christian allegory that is also a farce—but the execution at the story level wasn't there for me at all (though I have to admit that at the sentence and paragraph levels, he is a deceptively simple writer who is really good at quick and dirty characterization).Overall, meh.
I loved Mr Bird who goes around trying to convert animals to Christianity, 'he filled a little phial that he carried in his pocket with some ditch-water, and cautiously approached the geese with a view to baptizing the first family of them.' Meanwhile, Tamar Grobe falls in love with a picture of an angel on a painted sign and waits for him to come down from heaven and marry her, or as Mrs. Grunter puts it in what is one my all-time favourite pieces of dialogue "Little maid Tamar be for ever expecting signboard angel to come down from 'is post to tickle and tumble she." Slightly mental.
When friends ask me about my favourite books, there are two that never fail to get dumbfounded looks. This novel is the other one.Written before World War 2, it reads oddly fresh. It is underscored by Christian mythology, yet is built on a rational premise: death, like 'Mr Weston', is a blessing in disguise.I don't know if Joanne Harris read it before writing Chocolat - it certainly has a lot in common with this chewy parable about death and vitality in a small village.
I love 19th century fiction, and this was in the general style, but oh my, there the similarity ended. Plodding stodgy prose with little or no real character building. Possibly one of the most tedious books I have ever given up on.
The Mouth of Hell; Folly Down revisited. It was well over thirty years ago that I first read 'Mr. Weston’s good wine' and in those days I was a fairly conventional Christian believer, of the Methodist persuasion. The book seemed to me then to be shot through with truth and hope and beauty, to sing a hymn of praise rather than telling a story. Returning to it in a Post-Christian frame of mind, I still find it compelling, and want to bring it to the attention of those who may not yet have discover
“The wine filled him with a gentle melancholy - a mood in which one could live graciously, in which one could die contentedly.” After re-acquainting himself with the text that was formerly central to his faith, he regains his vanished belief that after death he will see his lost wife Alice again, and on Mr. Weston’s return visit Mr. Grobe asks for a draught of the Dark Wine – he dies.Meanwhile, under the oak tree in the centre of the village where so many young girls have been dishonoured, Tamar too has entered into her longed-for ecstasy, embracing Michael and drinking some of Mr Weston’s wine – we are not told whether the Light or the Dark.
"The best books have to end unhappily . . ." Mr. Weston
Quando ho preso in mano questo libro mi aspettavo una storia, quando ho iniziato a leggerlo ho capito di essermi sbagliata.
Inoltre fra le pagine si ritrova una tagliente descrizione della vita nei villaggi di campagna dell'Inghilterra degli anni '20.
Tutti affermano che la vita non potrebbe essere migliore a Folly Down, che tutti sono felici e non ci sono problemi di alcun tipo, ma poi cade la maschera.
Donne cattive e manipolatrici, mogli prive di carattere e vitalità che non sanno come impiegare il proprio tempo mentre i mariti sono alla taverna.
Sono tutti così nel paesino di Folly Down?

From Ronald Blythe's introduction to the 1983 edition, we learn that "the title comes from the scene in Jane Austen's Emma where the young rector Mr Elton, returning with Emma in her carriage when she knew 'he had been drinking too much of Mr Weston's good wine, and felt sure that he would want to be talking nonsense,' has the nerve to make love to her."This is a very odd book, written in a fairy-tale style, a fairy-tale set in the English country village of Folly Down, on November 20th, 1923.
Mr Weston arrives in his Ford van, with his assistant Michael, to sell his good wine to the villagers, all of whom seem to be spending their time chasing and frolicking with the maidens.
The way characters in Folly Down manage to move about in what should be total darkness is never fully explained, nor is the ability to hear characters when they should not be heard or things perceived when it seems impossible.Mr. Weston's Good Wine is one of the most unique and engaging novels I have read in a long time.
Powys' use of allusion is often quite obvious, but what he intends by those allusions is often left to readers to interpret in nicely clever manners.If you decide to read Mr. Weston's Good Wine, I strongly recommend you keep going until you are well into the setting at Folly Down.
This is a very quirky book, almost 4 stars but couldn't bring myself to go quite that high, whereas I can easily commit to 3.
It's apparently an allegory, but I'm not so sure--it seems to me that it is what it is, given Mr. Weston being another name for God, and that Mr. Weston likes to speak in metaphors, but otherwise it seems to be taken at face value.
God (Mr. Weston) comes to town (two of them, but the second turns out to be the important one), and eventually gets involved with the townspeople.The townspeople are what keeps this from 4 stars-ness.
In parts, it reads like the kind of bawdy 'country matters' stories written by H.E.Bates and A.E.Coppard.
Mr Weston arrives in the small Dorset town of Folly Down to sell the inhabitants his good wine.
Soon after he arrives, the clocks stop and it is eternal evening.
Is the culprit the church clerk, Mr Grunter or is it God?The novel is a religious allegory but whether it's inspired by belief or dis belief in God is open to question.
This novel is an interesting oddity unlike most other things I've read.
Warning: the West Country dialect takes some decoding and getting used to.
This is a Christian allegory - Mr Weston visits a small country village, offering its inhabitants his wine.
During the night, time stands still, and the characters in the village experience a moment of illumination and are faced with choices that determine their fate.I found this rather slow, there is a lot of time spent introducing the characters in a rather roundabout way, and the dialogue is written in a strange kind of rural dialect that serves to obscure what is actually happening.
I'm glad I persevered as the conclusion to the novel is more exciting and I wanted to know the fate of the characters, but it all seemed a bit too preachy and allusive.
Always pleased when I get given a book that I otherwise probably wouldn't read. Loved it !
Lo reseñé aquí: http://divandetinta.com/2015/03/25/el...
Hard going in parts esp. the dialect sections.
