https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/507247.The_Searchers
”A man has to learn to forgive himself,” Amos said, his voice unnaturally gentle….”Or he can’t stand to live. It so happens we be Texans. We took a reachin’ holt, way far out, past where any man has right or reason to hold on. Or it we didn’t, our folks did, so we can’t leave off, without giving up that they were fools, wasting their lives, and washed in the way they died.” The moment of realization.Amos Edwards and Marty Pauley are helping to retrieve some cattle that have been stolen from a ne
I know a lot more people have seen the truly magnificent movie made of The Searchers than have read the book, for the movie they changed the name of Amos to Ethan.
Martha, played by Dorothy Jordan, with Ethan's coat.In the movie John Wayne comes up on the homestead on fire.
I remember the chills that went up my spine when I first saw the movie and thinking to myself if John Wayne couldn’t handle it I don’t want to see it.
Marty knows he might have to stand between Amos and Debbie when the time comes.
Through these shifting sands, there is one John Wayne movie I have always loved, from youth to political awakening to today.
Like the movie, the novel is built upon the kidnapping of a young white girl – little Debbie Edwards – who is taken by the Comanche after her family is murdered.
The search consumes many years and witnesses fading tracks, dead leads, brutal encounters with both whites and Indians, fierce weather, and dimming hope.The movie version of The Searchers features John Wayne in the Amos role (named Ethan in the film).
The Comanche in the novel are people; just people that Le May and his characters don’t like.
I'm gonna say it, and I can only remember saying this once before, "The movie was better!" Not that the book wasn't good, but the movie was a masterpiece...some critics have argued that it was the best movie ever filmed.Odd about reading the book after seeing the movie...had I read the book first I would never have pictured Monument Valley as the type of landscape that the events occurred in.
And if the reader has already seen the movie, they will probably still enjoy the book but they will be shaking the noggin saying "Nuh-uh!
Remember watching the movie a few years ago and have always wanted to read the book. A classic western themed novel. It was the isolation and sense of community, the vastness of the country that is really brought home to the reader here, so well depicted and visual.Really appreciated the foreword written about the making of "The Searchers" and an insight to the making of many of the TV westerns that I watched as a young child. Novel is well worth reading for the "foreword" alone.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Amos and Martin would travel all over Texas and parts of neighboring states/territories, risking their own lives by visiting Comanche villages to ask questions about the Indian leader they learn is named Scar.
Martin and Amos develop a deep respect for each other over time, but Martin's personal motive in maintaining the search is based on guilt, for not being a good brother figure for Debbie when he had the chance, and on a realization that he may have to do whatever is necessary to keep Amos from killing Debbie, who by now has grown assimilated into Indian life, when they find her.Martin and Amos, or Ethan, as he is called in the film, find the village where Debbie is living and attack it in the company of Texas Rangers and Army Calvary.
The concluding episode is at the same time next week.Alan Le May's 1954 novel is a timeless work of western fiction and a no-holds-barred portrait of the real American frontier.
And what emerges is a violent account of a creeping genocide, as one culture inevitably triumphs over the other.John Ford's 1956 film, based on the novel, starred John Wayne as Ethan Edwards (called Amos in the book and radio adaptation).
Ford's film was named the Greatest Western Movie of all time by the American Film Institute in 2008.Radio 4 investigates the story behind the novel with 'In Search of the Real Searchers' at 1.30pm on Sunday 26th October.
If you are interested in the last years of the native Americans in Texas, and you want a highly nuanced, well-written and enthralling story to go with it, this is your book.
And though LeMay does not endeavour to make us feel one way or another about the characters, you feel very touched by all their plights, and you have a new understanding, in the end, of what life was like on the Texas frontier back in those days.
it's a very different kind of book than True Grit, the other western on mamet's list...
still a notch below Warlock and Blood Meridian as far as westerns go in my book, but it's a different kind of thing.
They rode low on the sides of their ponies, stabbing upward with their lances, and once within reach they never missed.
Only chance was to pistol your enemy before his lance could reach you.
The gun reached farther than the lance, and hit with a shock that was final; but every shot was a snapshot, and nobody missed twice.
The Searchers is an excellent western novel that is loosely based on the story of Cynthia Ann Parker who was abducted by Comanches in Texas in 1836 when she was about 10 years of age.
Her oldest, Quannah, became a legendary Comanche chief and oversaw the transition of the tribe from "Lords of the Plains" to reservation living.
Lemay's novel is set later in time, after the Civil War, and follows the efforts of Amos Edwards and his adopted nephew, Martin Pauley, to find 10 year-old Debbie Edwards who was abducted by Comanche in a murder raid that left the remainder of her family dead.
An sich nicht schlecht, aber ich halte diesen "unsere Frauen und Töchter"-Mist nicht mehr so gut aus wie früher. Wenn sie ihre Frauen aus Pappe wenigstens ganz rauslassen könnten aus solchen Büchern. Man kann doch irgendeinen anderen Grund finden, 350 Seiten lang herumzureiten und die Rothäute totzuschießen, pure Bosheit vielleicht, so wie bei Cormac McCarthy, aber nein, UNSERE FRAUEN UND TÖCHTER. Na gut, also dieses Buch hat meine Wertschätzung für pure unbegründete Bosheit als Autorenwerkzeug vermehrt, immerhin.
There are no thieves: the Indians have lured the men away so that the family can be killed.
You get a whole new vocabulary, a whole new mental picture of how bleak and tough frontier life really was.In the 1956 John Ford film, that bleakness was concentrated in the John Wayne character: the vengeful brother who doesn't want to rescue his niece but to put her down because she's 'tainted' by her Comanche kidnappers.
The search wears on for six long years (the third quarter of the book drags a bit) and we see how these dark motivations strip men of the capacity for joy.
Novela magistral.
En la novela se encuentra una detallada y muy disfrutable recreación histórica de la zona de la frontera (la relación comancheros-blancos-indios, costumbres de los comanches y otras tribus, la vida en Nuevo México...), una mayor dureza en las descripciones, profundidad en los personajes además de encontrarnos con qué algunos personajes tienen destinos distintos a los de la película, además de tener un final distinto pero, como mínimo, igual de espléndido que el de la película de John Ford.PD (1): Obviamente tras la lectura recomiendo el (re)visionado de la película de John Ford.PD (2): Tras el (re)visionado de la película de John Ford recomiendo recuperar el programa de "Que grande es el cine" dedicado a dicha película.
I fell in love with the film version of The Searchers, the very first time I saw it, but I never did read the original novel. Well, I have corrected that oversight and I was not disappointed. This is not a western pulp read. It is dark and edgy, as it follows Amos Edwards, (Ethan in the film) and Martin Pauley as they doggedly search the Texas territory. for a little girl, kidnapped by the Comanches. This was based on an actual event. A good, solid read.
She's really one of the more annoying minor characters I've had the misfortune to encounter.The Plot: I believe I mentioned earlier that Amos and Martin spent 6 years wandering around the American West.
Amos wanted to kill as many Indians as possible, and as is made clear by the end of the book, Martin only wanted to look masculine and save the day.
Part of what makes LeMay's writing so disappointing is the fact that there was a lot of potential to make this story good.
I just wanted Amos and Martin to locate her so the book could end.
I can't give it away for anyone who will be reading the book, but I think you'd agree with me.Biggest problem I had was the fact that the leading man's name was Amos Edwards.
Thank God the movie changed it to Ethan Edwards, much more macho and John Wayne like.
I cringed al the way through the book everytime Amos was mentioned and it was a lot.The story was good though, very well written but my two problems brought it down in my estimationP.S. I know the name Amos came before Ethan but I still can't stand the name.
Really, really good. Not quite what I was expecting, this is a serious, sad, dark tale, not normally what I go for, but brilliantly told and I was riveted. The Indians, the white men and the land and time they inhabit just engulfed me from start to finish. I'm going to have to watch the movie. And I will be reading more from LeMay.This story will be staying with me for a while I think.
http://nuevobestsellerespanol.blogspo...
I enjoyed the beginning and the end but found the middle a bit repetitive and boring. Certainly more gritty and realistic than the movie.
The love between Martha and Amos, the fact that he gave her up for a more stable life married to his brother, and Amos dealing with finding her hacked apart by the Comanche’s, sends him on a mission fueled by hatred and guilt.After Lucy is found killed along the trail, the two press on to locate Debbie, for almost six long years.
As the novel progresses, Amos’s hatred for Comanche’s, his desire for revenge, becomes more important to him than finding Debbie alive, while Martin learns the ways of living on the plains and continues the quest for his own reasons.
My brother and nephew think the film of this is just about the best thing in the world. It’s not my favorite although I admit it’s good so I wanted to read the book. Here you get more of a sense of how much time the search took and some of the hardships encountered. Really liked it and loved the ending.
What racism there is attributable to the characters and the historical period, and is probably, if anything, downplayed from how people spoke and behaved at the time.
It would be impossible, and undesirable, to write about this time period and avoid the racism that was so prevalent then.These kinds of issues are tricky, because I most definitely believe that fiction is not a space that should need to address every thorny political issue within its setting.
EotSM addresses the true story that was one of the historical inspirations for The Searchers: the kidnapping of Cynthia Ann Parker.
Personally, this novel stands up there with some of the great American novels of the 20th century.Movie version: I recently watched the restored classic John Ford western.
The movie isn't as deep or flavorful as the novel and misses some of the great scenes (like the near-deadly blizzard and the huge final battle with 100's of Comanche, Cavalry, and Rangers).
John Wayne's Amos (Ethan) is closer to the novel character until they attach the unfortunate Hollywood heroic ending (he ain't the hero in the novel - do yourself a favor and read it).
Nobody but nobody captured the American west on film like John Ford.
But I didn't feel the need to read the whole thing cover to cover because not much was really going to happen, and I was also uncomfortable with the portrayal of all Indians as evil incarnate.
I'm pretty sure anthropological history indicates that those things, which make up this entire story, are/were a myth deliberately created to whip up hatred against Indians.
The dust jacket of the copy I borrowed features a letter written by the author describing the story as literally being "about" that one aspect, but the lack of exploration of it in the actual book is wholly at odds with that.
The John Ford masterpiece is a fairly faithful adaptation of this book with the usual liberties in this case very minor, with scenes almost identical as well as some dialogue.
As you would expect, the book is dark - like the movie.Some changes that occurred from book to film:John Wayne's character is renamed from Amos in the book to Ethan in the movie.
In this case I'd say they are on equal footing (unlike the usual "well the book was better...)
Quote from Alan LeMay, The Searchers :“The Comanches were supposed to be the most literal-minded of all the tribes.
There are Indians who live in a poetic world, half of the spirit, but the Comanches were a tough-minded, practical people, who laughed at the religious ceremonies of other tribes as crazy-Indian foolishness.
They saw themselves as of one piece with a world in which nothing was without a spirit.”“ … Perhaps it was that, and knowing where he was, that accounted for what happened next.
Or maybe scars, almost as old as he was, were still in existence down at the bottom of his mind, long buried under everything that had happened in between.
Not quite a five star read for me, but certainly a strong four.The book has a different ending than the movie and I think on the whole John Ford's take on the story and the changes he made are a _bit_ better.
The last third is just different.spoiler(view spoiler)[The movie hangs with the love story between Mart and Laurie and makes the rescue of Debbie a story of the redemption (half-redemption) of Ethan/Amos.
One of the best scenes in cinema history.I like the books ending as well, don't get me wrong, pairing Debbie and Mart at the end and killing Amos/Ethan...it does work just fine, just the tighter story change done by Ford is cleaner.
I was so pleasantly surprised in reading this book.
I've always been a fan of the movie but until I heard a interview on NPR on the making of the movie and the actual historical events on which the novel and movie are based, I never dreamed of reading it.
I think it is one of the best western novels I've ever read, right up there with Portis' True Grit.
The basic outline of the story in the novel and movie are very similar but with important differences in plot emphasis, characterization and ending.
Although I like the movie very much, the novel is by far the richer and more rewarding experience.
I highly recommend this book.
This is one of the few books where I saw the movies first and read the book much later.
It's hard to beat the Duke, but in the book Amos Edward does just that.
The story is that Amos Edwards and Martin Pauley search for their sister Debbie Edwards after the comanche destroy and kill the rest of the family on the homestead.
How Alan Le May kept the book moving quickly, while conveying how Amos and Martin pursuit a plodding journey.
What I did not like was the two introduction on the movie searchers in this edition.
The film is rightly considered a classic, but the novel on which it is based seems to be rather less well known/regarded.
The central story seems straightforward - a young white girl is kidnapped and her family killed by Comanche native Americans, her surviving relatives (uncle Amos, Ethan in the film, and adoptive brother Mart) hunt for her.
But like Heart of Darkness or Moby Dick, this is a tale about the journey, internal as much as external as well as a vivid portrait of a frontier world already disappearing (and much less sympathetically painted than Dances with Wolves) and a moving story about loss, grief and acceptance.
Well worth a read, even if you know the film like the back of your hand
