https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31227076-my-husband-s-wife
There is a strange attraction between Lily and Joe, and since her new marriage isn’t turning out exactly as she had hoped, she finds it difficult to walk the professional line.The story is also told in the point of view of Carla, a young girl living in the same apartment building as Lily and Ed. She has an attractive Italian mother who is seeing a married man named Larry.
Carla returned to the UK after going home with her Mamma to Italy and has returned into Lily and Ed’s lives un-expectantly.
The story is populated with flawed characters and is told from the POV of Lily and Carla.
Lily and Ed get married, she is starting as a criminal lawyer and he is an artist.
Carla is a manipulative child, who along with her mother, is befriended by Lily.
Ed comes to find success through his picture of Carla, 'The Italian Girl'.
Moving on in time, Lily is a successful partner in the law firm, still married to Ed and with an autistic son.
Carla returns, and Ed wants to paint her again.
You are drawn into the relationships and want to know more.
I cannot deal with the writing. This a debut, and it shows.
It being on the longer side, I wasn’t sure if this novel would keep my attention - but I was hooked from start to finish!There are two POVs. That of Lily, an insecure 20 something married to a man who proposed on the second date.
“Who knows where blame really lies?
It’s never as simple as it seems.” The second POV is Carla, the 9 year old next door neighbour of Lily and her artist husband Ed. Carla lives with her Italian mother, who has regular visits from a man named Larry.
So many twists and turns I didn’t know who to believe!
It could have been much shorter book and think it would have been better for it.
3.5 starsA new marriage shouldn’t be fueled by secrets and lies, but alas secrets and lies are the foundation for the marriage of Ed and Lily.
On their honeymoon, something happens that creates cracks in their new union.
Lily pushes her qualms aside and focuses on her new job as a solicitor for which she has taken on the case of a convicted murderer whom she happens to form an attraction.
Fast-forward 15 years, and Carla has come to enact revenge on Ed and Lily for ruining her mother’s life.
The title of this book is certainly intriguing and led me to believe this novel would most likely be the kind twisty domestic thriller I can’t seem to get enough of.
However, for me, at least, this book seems like it is one part family drama and one part domestic thriller.
Yet, as the years pass, Ed and Lily both make moral compromises, personally and professionally, and their relationship with Carla gets caught in the crossfire.
There were some huge reveals here and there and while the character’s moral bankruptcies and ambiguties, makes for an interesting character study, it felt more like a soap opera or family drama than a novel of suspense.
I stuck to it because I was waiting and waiting for something to happen that would make this void book make sense.The dialogue read like it was written by a child - straight to the point with no subtext...
'Dramatic' scenes played out so fast that they were over in a paragraph, the characters were all over the place as though the writer didn't know them at all and couldn't make up her mind about their personalities/aims.
One character was literally 'sobbing' in every scene she was in, as if the writer didn't know any other way to express that this character was in a tough spot in life other than to have her wail...
While thus seemed like an interesting plot it seemed to drag forever. Almost too many twists to the point that I wanted to pull my hair if one more came along. Every single character was completely damaged but not to the point that it made them disturbingly endearing, just quite irritating. I did like the insertion of a bit of a look into raising a child with Aspergers. Tho linked to the immediate story it still felt as if it was thrown in there half assed.
With doubts over her marriage and a feeling of jealousy towards Ed’s ex girlfriend, she feels herself losing her ability to remain uninvolved and professional.Meanwhile, Lily and Ed become involved with their neighbours; an attractive Italian mother and her young daughter, Carla.
None of them are particularly sympathetic , but this part of the book and the interplay between the characters is important to understand what happens later.Skipping forward some years, we find Lily as a successful, attractive partner in the law firm.
Meanwhile Ed, whose success began with a portrait of Carla as a child, is keen to paint Carla as a beautiful young woman and, hopefully, kick start his failing career.
Tried too hard to be clever and ended up an implausible mess.
It is when an imperfect couple learns to enjoy their differences.”  ----Dave MeurerJane Corry, an English author, pens her debut psychological thriller, My Husband's Wife that narrates the story of a couple who goes through ups and downs in their newly marital life, through many years, but their past mistakes and their involvement in the life of a notorious and sly criminal and a sweet little girl, comes haunting back at them ages later, and that can either destroy their relationship or can kill them.Synopsis: It's the perfect love story.Lily meets Ed at a party, and on their second date, he proposes.
This book is an exciting and addicting read because it’s full of secrets, lies, and deceptions.
I like learning the difference between solicitor and barrister from this book.
In this book, readers will follow Lily Macdonald, a twenty five year old newlywed to Ed Macdonald.
Readers will also follow Carla, a 9 year old girl and neighbor to Lily & Ed Macdonald.
The author then takes readers back to 15 years before when Lily & Ed are starting out as a newlywed.
Fast forward to 12 years later and readers will follow Carla in her early twenties and Lily in her early forties.
The title to this book is what made me want to read it. Everyone was full of secrets, lies, and deception. Quite enjoyable!!
I've been wanting to read this book ever since I first saw the cover on a shelf probably at least a year ago.
I swear, every review I write makes me out to be some sort of crazy person but the more insane and psychopathic the characters, the more I tend to love them.
The best thing about this book is that it's not just one antagonist - at some point, everyone in the cast seems to play that role.
What did I think?: Honestly, this is one of my favorite books that I've read in a long time.
I will choose my friends a bit more wisely in future.Psychological thriller?
This novel is merely an undramatic unfolding of events surrounding two main characters - Lily and Carla - and their relationships with others.
And fails miserably.What shocks me more about this novel is that the author is supposedly a creative writing teacher ....
I thought creative writing was all about the showing rather than the telling.
There is absolutely no showing in this novel at all.
It's two days of my life I will never get back.
3.5 Stars!I won this in a Goodreads giveaway. The plot was intriguing and the cover immediately caught my eye, but something just fell short. Perhaps it was that I found none of the characters to be likable or relatable? Or that the book felt like it tried to do too many things. I felt uncomfortable reading this and kept wanting to rush through to move on to other books, but, despite my complaints, this was an enjoyable and speedy read.
With a clever title, this dark psychological thriller is a perfect example of a new wave of the genre which has excited readers for the past couple of years (think Girl on a Train, Gone Girl etc).
Meanwhile, across the hall, lives nine year old Carla and her mother - Italians, shunned from their own community due to Carla's hertiage, that being she was born out of wedlock.I enjoyed the fact the story included narration from Carla, although I felt this could have more of an impact had it been told from first-person perspective.
Is it possible to write a readable novel that will keep you turning pages, yet about unlikable characters?
Each of these characters feels unloved at times.
He does have a large part to play in the way the story develops.
Even though I couldn’t relate to the characters, I still kept turning the pages.
I would rather finish a book and end up feeling good or thinking about the characters and their choices.
A lot will depend on your outlook as to whether you love this or end up feeling as I did.
Um thriller psicológico inteligente, chocante cheio de segredos e mentiras. Um livro que fala de complicações nas relações, amores impossíveis e traumas familiares. Adorei de início ao fim. Alerta-nos também para o facto de não podermos confiar em ninguém hoje em dia, às vezes as pessoas que nos são mais próximas são as que nos magoam mais.
Gostei bastante deste livro e da forma como foi escrito. Manteve-me em suspense até ao fim e só não foi perfeito porque o final não me satisfez, foi cor de rosa demais para o tipo de livro que é. Mas leiam, vão gostar sem duvida
Lily meets Ed at a party.
She is an up and coming Lawyer and he is an inspiring artist.In the same building as Lily and Ed live is Carla and Francesca.
Carla was just 9 years old when they met her.Francesca was disowned by her family when she discovers she was pregnant and the Father was a married man.Soon the cracks start to appear in Lily and Ed's marriage and Lily now regrets getting married.Another fantastic debut novel and I'm already looking forward to reading more from the author in future.I would like to thank Net Galley, Penguin Books (UK) and the author Jane Corry for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
This novel is not exactly suspenseful (we're not truly solving a crime, but instead looking into the complex lives of our characters--which albeit may lead to some sort of crimes at times), but I still found it compulsively readable, consuming it in about 2 days.
I enjoyed how all the characters were interrelated and that the novel seemed focused on looking into what made them "tick." I won't lie, though, it did seem like something was missing at times: a piece of plot somewhere or something more to propel the story along.
The book changes midway through to a later date in time, once one of the young characters has grown into an adult.
Lily, being a young attorney, is working later and later on freeing a man accused of murder, believing that he was wrongly convicted.
Carla returns to their lives.
Joe, the convicted murderer that Lily helped to release from prison, reenters the picture.
Soon things are turned topsy- turvy.
However it was good reading and kept me turning pages.
This is my first experience with Corry, who also has a number of non-fiction books published, but this will not be my last.
The marriage is not a solid one, there are secrets that Lily has, and it seems like Ed has his own secrets as well.Taking on her first murder case, she is strangely drawn to this man.
He's going to play a very large part of this story.Francesca and her 9-year-old daughter, Carla live next door.
Carla is young, but she has learned that when she discovers a secret, she can get just about anything she wants.Years pass as Lily and Ed have a son, they become more like roommates than husband and wife.
Carla comes back, setting into motion many more secrets and lies..
Lily and Carla.
The book starts off with newly married Lily working on a potential case of an innocent man who was tried and convicted for the murder of his live in girlfriend.Carla is Lily's 9 year old neighbor.
Eventually the two characters stories sync up (it takes a little bit) when Lily comes home one day and finds Carla injured after an incident at her school.
It also grossed me out a bit when we get to the second part of the book when you read about Carla and who she eventually gets involved with.
Me ha gustado muchísimo. Es una novela muy entretenida que hace que vayas queriendo saber más y más a medida que pasan los capítulos. Os la recomiendo sin lugar a dudas, sobre todo si estáis de bajón lector. Esta os enganchará seguro.
I gave up after 140 pages. The child's voice was age inappropriate and the meandering storyline held no appeal. I will pass on to guest reviewer to see if it was just me...
Carla by chance catches Larry with another woman and blackmails him to buy her a pencil case and later a shiny new pink bicycle.
Lily is a criminal attorney who works long hours and Carla grows closer to Ed. Lily reopens a case of an incarcerated man named Joe Thomas.
Lily presents new evidence that frees Joe Thomas from prison.Joe Thomas and Carla both in their own way interfere with Lily and Ed's marriage.
Is Joe Thomas really innocent or did Lily help set free a murderer?
I thoroughly enjoyed this debut novel and will read this author's future work.Happy Reading!
Wow. Could not put this book down till I finished it!! Lots of twists and turns!!
