https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5064.World_Without_End
We who are born poor have to use cunning to get what we want. Scruples are for the privileged.  I must confess-- I am addicted to these Ken Follett novels. I finished World Without End and had to pick up A Column of Fire immediately. I'm also going to get to his Century trilogy at some point. These books are bloodstained historical soap operas and I just can't get enough.Follett knows how to create exactly the right amount of drama and set it to the gory backdrop of history. I've always loved b
These books are bloodstained historical soap operas and I just can't get enough.Follett knows how to create exactly the right amount of drama and set it to the gory backdrop of history.
It was a truly horrific and frightening disease, and I think the author captures that really well.Follett once again utilizes a technique that worked very well for him in The Pillars of the Earth - the plot is often driven by our hatred for certain characters.
It's pretty effective to despise a character so deeply that we absolutely must read on to see them get their just desserts.It's also just a fascinating portrait of everyday life in 14th century England.
This is big, bad historical soap opera at its full on finest complete with everything that makes a great period piece: politics, intrigue, alliances, betrayals, fortunes won and lost, life-long grudges, loves, jealousies, deaths, plot-twists, unspeakable crimes (e.g., rapes, murders, etc.), conflict between major powers, reformers versus status quo, good vs.
evil and a mysterious letter the contents of which could shake the foundations of the Monarchy itself.Boo Yah!!!Set approximately 200 years after the events of The Pillars of the Earth in the same fictional town of Kingsbridge, England, this story is set against the backdrop of, and incorporates into its narrative, the beginning of the Hundred Years War and the outbreak and spread of the Black Plague.
Instead of Aliena, we get Caris (who I wanted to slap several times during the course of the story).
All the clergy in "World Without End" seemed to be corrupt - including the ones we're supposed to like.Something big happens about halfway through, to change the book's course - and it doesn't get resolved as quickly as I thought it would - but the big payoff from the opening scene never materializes.
("That's IT?" I wanted to say when I read the explanation of what happened.)There are some good scenes, showing how war and pestilence affect ordinary folk - but the "heroes" in this book talk and think too much like people from the 21st Century to make the setting really believable.
Instead of focusing on building a new cathedral, after the dramatic burning down of the first one, the citizens are focusing on re-building the town bridge after the other was destroyed by a stampede of angry witch burners.
And here’s one of the things Follett does better this time round: he explores more social issues regarding femininity with greater depth.
The practicalities of their ideas are ignored simply because they are women: they must be wrong or witches.
If I wanted a normal relationship, Merthin told himself, I should have picked a normal girl.” As well as enduring the Black Death, Kingsbridge finds herself at the centre point of a massive court intrigue.
“Whether I’ve been good or bad, I don’t think God will be fooled by a last-minute change of heart.” ‘’World Without End’’ is the second installment in Follett’s Kingsbridge series and what a world it is….Set during one of the most turbulent times in European History, amidst the beginning of the Hundred Years’ War and the nightmare of the Black Death that swept over the continent causing the deaths of an unthinkable percentage of the population, it is one more example of why Historical Fiction i
‘’World Without End’’ is the second installment in Follett’s Kingsbridge series and what a world it is….Set during one of the most turbulent times in European History, amidst the beginning of the Hundred Years’ War and the nightmare of the Black Death that swept over the continent causing the deaths of an unthinkable percentage of the population, it is one more example of why Historical Fiction is the Genre of the Genres when done right.
The way I saw it, they came across like badly drawn versions of ‘’The Pillars of the Earth’’ protagonists and they were the only reason that prevented me from fully enjoying the novel.
World Without End is written in the third person but isn't choppy like some third person books are.
I really enjoyed reading about the advances in medicine and what people believed to be cures (bloodletting, poultices made with dung, balancing the "humours" of the body).
There was definitely more corruption in World Without End than there was in The Pillars of the Earth.
The last thing I enjoyed reading about was the architecture.
I think that's the special thing about Follett's writing---he makes you feel what his characters are feeling.
I still hate that Will Hamleigh!Much like Pillars of the Earth, World Without End follows the lives of a number of characters; Merthin the carpenter, his brother Ralph the squire, a poor girl named Gwenda, Wulfric the laborer, Godwyn the monk, and several others.
What a nun mugger that guy was!As with Pillars of the Earth, twists abound and the 14th century is not a good place to be a woman.
It was exhausting to read at times, not because of the prose, which is breezy and accessible, but because of plot twists every 6.5 pages.
5 stars to Ken Follett's World Without End. One of my favorite books of all time...
I was just mesmerized by the characters and everything they went thru.
It is a MUST read.It's a long read, and it takes place hundreds of years ago, but if you can handle the primitive nature of the timeline, the various plots and subplots will astound you.
Amazing.I kept getting angry at all the tragedy thrown at the two main characters.
How could they suffer so much.
And for years.
I'll stop there as I don't want to give it away, but please read this one!FAVORITE BOOK!!!!
In all practical theory, this book should be on my 'Sucked' shelf. It's a tale of the Middle Ages, the gross injustices of the time, and it truly amounts to a thousand-page Medieval soap opera. It hasn't got much to do with it's predecessor  The Pillars of the Earth , except that it's in the same location 200 years later, with characters that are "descendants" of the Pillars characters. There's none of the complex building and architectural aspects found in Pillars, the graphic sex and violence
There's none of the complex building and architectural aspects found in Pillars, the graphic sex and violence has been toned down, several aspects of the plot are predictable, and the dialogue seems strikingly modern for a novel set in the 14th century.
Another great aspect of this book was the concentration on Medieval ideas about health and medicine, especially during the time of the plague.
"If you don't want medicine, be Italian and kiss this," I said to her, holding up my pocket-rosary.)] Anyway, great book, totally fascinating, very different from Pillars of the Earth, and written by a guy who truly is a master writer.KICKED ASS.
With the Cathedral casting a daunting shadow on the town, the economic stability of Kingsbridge seems less stable, as the Fleece Fair may suffer without a new bridge to transport much needed items from outside.
Saving a few coins over stability becomes a strong issue, though the symbolic nature of the bridge, connecting economic stability to the town that seeks to link itself to new life, becomes apparent throughout the narrative.
While Kingsbridge Cathedral stands strong in the background, readers are able to draw parallels between its development and the new architectural piece, the Bridge, that keeps all aspects of the town occupied.
Follett finally completed the sequel to his evergreen historical novel, The Pillars of the Earth, and although I was compelled by the story enough to read all 1024 pages in a week, I was saddened at how poorly the book compares with its predecessor.It is interesting to consider the nearly 20 years between the first book and this sequel.
There are many further examples but I will spare you.More telling is the apparent shift Follett has undergone in what he believes we want to read about.
Just one?The differences between these two books tells us much about ourselves and the kinds of things authors and editors believe we want to read.
But for whatever reason – bad mood, fit of pique, utter irrationality – I have decided that I hate World Without End. Oh, it still gave me some laughs, just like the first one; this time, though, I’m not giving it the stars.
Right up until the last page, Follett sticks to this simple formula: (1) introduce a difficulty for his characters to overcome; (2) have them despair; (3) have them come up with a plan; (4) the plan works!; (5) the characters believe (stupidly, it turns out) that all is right with the world; and (6) a new difficulty arises for the characters to overcome… This pattern is so distinct, so telegraphed, that it doesn’t take you long before you can foresee the problem and the solution before either are introduced by the author.
Well, Pillars of the Earth is one of my favorite books and I was looking forward to completely enjoying this without reservation.
Fortunately, I have been able to do so, at least through the first part of the book.I am sad that people who are sort of shabby and bumbling are the descendants of people who were just fantastic in Pillars, but I accept that family fortunes rise and fall.
I think it will color my feelings about those Pillars characters next time I read the book, but not necessarily my feelings about the book.UPDATE APRIL 5:Uh-oh.
Beginning two centuries after "The Pillars of the Earth" in the same town, this book has a lot of interesting characters and combines three decades of love, action, treason, history, corruption, difficult and adventurous life.
The life long love of the main character suffers some hardship and creates something new in business.There was much suffering, cruelty and injustice in the story so I couldn’t help but hope that at some point it must get better for the good and worse for the bad ones - this is after all a novel.
After reading it, the verdict was unanimous:  World Without End is an absolute  masterclass in storytelling, character development, imagination and a tale of the unbound human spirit!
Ultimately World Without End is at its bare essence a story of love.Follett revisits the city of ‘Kingsbridge’ about 200 years after we last encountered it at ‘Pillars’.
As much as Pillars was a well-crafted story about the ‘building of a cathedral’ and the creation of the city as a religious powerhouse, World Without End encompasses a more global tone involving accurate historical events of the epoch and surrounding Europe.
Follett creates another masterpiece that is wildly accurate to the historical time, as he tells a tale that is fascinating, with memorable characters!
Three of the children run off leaving Merthin and Sir Thomas Langley to hide the dead men in the bushes.
He asks to join the priory and become a monk.Gwenda, Caris, Merthin and Ralph grow up.
Ralph despairs of ever becoming a knight.Then the bridge collapse and Kingsbridge is threatened with economic ruin.
Merthin is heartbroken and decides to leave for Florence, Italy, after he is dismissed as the builder of the bridge.This epic tome follows the life of the four individuals -- Merthin, Ralph, Caris and Gwenda -- and the people connected to Kingsbridge.
The Pillars of the Earth was pretty good, but WWE is supposed to be a sequel...
However, WWE seems to be a 1000 page snorefest after the first book.
If you wait 18 years, the book might seem fresh instead of boring, annoying, unoriginal and tedious.
If I did not have this incessant need to complete books, I would have just thrown it on the floor and never picked it up again.
my hint: Read Pillars of the Earth, take a LONG break and then, if you feel a desperate need...
*** 3.75 *** "...“You see, all that I ever held dear has been taken from me," she said in a matter-of-fact tone. "And when you've lost everything-" Her facade began to crumble, and her voice broke, but she made herself carry on. "When you've lost everything, you've got nothing to lose.”..." This is the truth about this book, similar issues I had with  "The Pillars of the Earth" - Ken Follet piles up small, every day problems that were typical for all in Medieval Europe, and adds to them more an
My free-loving spirit wanted to spit in the faces of the "Lords" and "Nobility" and kick them in the balls, show the bullies that we will not let them bully us or anyone else, but I had to let the author lead me through his story and hope he would take us to a place where we would have some literary vengeance and a pay-off for all the hopeless emotions he put us through...
Now I wish you all Happy Reading and my you always find what you Need in the pages of a good book!!!
Συνήθως ο κεντρικός ήρωας είναι δημιουργός (στο πρώτο χτίστης εδώ ξυλουργός) και η κεντρική ηρωίδα τσαούσα.
Νομίζω ότι προτιμούσα σε αυτό το σημείο το πρώτο βιβλίο γιατί εκεί είχαμε τους γονείς αρχικά (τον Μπιλντερ κυρίως) και τον Φιλιπ (δηλαδή παρακολουθούσαμε δύο ιστορίες)και μετά τον γιο του Μπιλντερ, που έγινε ο κεντρικός ήρωας κ την Αλιενα, που ήταν κεντρική ηρωίδα και φυσικά τον Φιλιπ, που σε όλες τις φάσεις, όλα αυτά τα χρόνια δρούσε σαν φύλακας άγγελος στις ζωές τους.
Φυσικά είναι κ το θέμα του μυστηρίου, στο πρώτο είχαμε μια μυστηριώδη κατάρα κ εδώ ένα μυστηριώδες γράμμα.
One of my book clubs selected this as we had all read and loved Pillars of the Earth when it came out 20 years ago.
The characters didn't seem real and certainly didn't elicit any sympathy from this reader as they moved from one contrived crisis to the next, the writing was repetitive and juvenile (a gifted high school student could write better), the language was too modern for the time period ("shagged" didn't come into use - at least in print - until late 18th C.) and sex was vulgar and gratuitous.
This is the sequel to "Pillars of the Earth." It's set 200 years after that original book but is very similar in terms of plot and especially character.
Every main character from "Pillars" has their parallel in this book: the intelligent, noble builder; the feisty, born-before-her-time love interest; the evil, corrupt nobleman who rapes and pillages his way into power.
It gets to the point where you start to wonder why you're bothering reading it.
Talk about offensive!).And once again, an aggressive editor would have done wonders.
1,000 pages is just a bit much, especially when the entire thing is a retread of the original anyway.
I cannot find the words to express how disappointed I was with this book. Having enjoyed "Pillars of the Earth" twice I awaited the issue of the sequel with immense enthusiasm. What a letdown! The characters, the plot,the writing are all dreadful...Mr Follett has tried to bring the 13th century into the 21st and it hasn't worked. The gratuitous sex and foul language spoil the book from the first chapter and for the first time in years, I will not be finishing this novel!Very sad to see a good author with good ideas go down the path of populism.
Book 1: 3*Book 2: 3.5*I had heard the rest of the series wasn't as good as book one so I was pleasantly surprised.
The book started out much like a carbon copy of its predecessor.
It is era two and there are a lot of parallels between many of the characters and the plot.
However this one was much darker and the author put more empathy into his character.
There were still some head scratching actions of different characters that seems completely out of character for this time period.
Overall though a very good second effort and I'll finish the series off.
Second Ken Follett, second Ken Follett audiobook, second Ken Follett audiobook listened to in car, first time I have ever wished to be caught in a really humungous traffic jam.This was an enthralling sort of sequel to the  The Pillars of the Earth . I say sort of because it is set some 200 years after the end of that wondrous story. Just as the previous novel looked at the building of the Cathedral and the growth of the fictional city of Kingsbridge* through the disastrous 19 year reign of King
A mysterious letter, buried by this young man, is pivotal to the story and, though it does not reappear fully until the end, punctuates the plot's every twist and turn like a hinted shadow or a glimpsed figure of menace.The four children grow from pre-adolescent exploring and friendship to middle age and all the accrued experiences.
Certainly in the two novels which I have read and loved, the main female character is brilliant and strong and intelligent and insightful and therefore, whether people like it or not, not a very accurate outline of how a woman would have been able to be in the 14th Century.
I obviously recommend this novel to all readers of The Pillars of the Earth and I encourage to read these two epic stories to the rest who haven’t done it yet because it’s a story that you will remember for the rest of your life.Spanish version:Cuando tuve en mis manos "Un mundo sin Fin" senti una mezcla de emoción y de miedo, me explicaré.
Para mí los Pilares de la Tierra es uno de mis libros favoritos, podría decir que está dentro de mis Top 5 libros favoritos, así que al coger el libro tenía unas ganas enormes por saber en qué historia me sumergiría Ken Follet como continuación pero a la vez tenía miedo que comparándolo con su precursora me decepcionara.
, y como los shippeaba xD, me encanto la genialidad y la personalidad de Merthin (y lo apoye en todo momento), y que decir de Caris, también, me encanto, su inteligencia, su sentido del deber, su lucha personal en su mundo tan machista, aunque en muchos momentos no la entendía, y quería meterme en el libro, zarandearla y decirle -¿qué más quieres mujer?- Aunque por otro lado cuando ponía en su lugar a los monjes (idiotas y machistas en su mayoría) quería decirle ¡bien hecho!
After being engrossed in that book, loving, hating, caring about the characters in it, after feeling like I was living in Kingsbridge for 900 pages, I was excited for this follow up.
It didn't take me long to start feeling like Follett had ripped off his own book.
Maybe if I'd had 20 years to forget the details of Pillars before reading Book World Without End, maybe I wouldn't have felt the similarities as much, and I'd have liked it more.
I wanted more of Follett's Kingsbridge world, yes, but I didn't expect Pillars of the Earth: Now With New Character Names!
"...epic, historic novel"??!Good Lord, I must be reading a different book than everyone else.This seems formulaic and forced.
Not that there's anything wrong with fornicating per se, I just don't care for books that use it as a major plot device time after time after time.I actually checked the cover to make sure it wasn't "Clan of the Cave Bear" 2.0...I'm going to finish this book (I think) 'cause I'm feeling a little masochistic.
Unless you are on the beach and looking to read but not think, and feel that a book cover emblazoned with 'Harlequin' is benath you-I really can't recommend this book.
(I use the term sequel loosely, there are a few references to the first book, but most of what happens is independent of that.) Pillars of the Earth was an amazing story, but I think at times it was a little bogged down with the descriptions of medieval masonry.
(hide spoiler)] This led to a more satisfying read overall, where I remember being frustrated by the way many of the other characters' story lines ended in Pillars of the Earth.I think Follett did an excellent job of trying to portray how people would think and operate in a world that didn't understand how communicable disease was spread (in this case the plague).
This book is like the book before the Pillar of the Earth in that it is about the lives of three or four main characters throughout their lives of childhood through adulthood seen through their troubles and hopes every so often in the the city of Kingsbridge, two hundred years after.
It is a book that is epic with their struggle between the them along with other characters, in which some stands in their ways through the hate between certain characters by making lives bad.
I would have give this book five stars, but does the book really has to end on a happy ending before the full life of the characters are seen?
