https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59980.Batman
This book has come to define the way we think of Batman today and was influential on the darker, grittier cape comics of the eighties and early nineties.But it is also instrumental in introducing what made that period of comics so ridiculous.
It's been praised for its gritty realism, but like any Miller book, it's more sensationlist than realist: a hard-boiled patina over an idealized superhero core.Sure, Batman screws things up a few times in this, and seems to get shot, beaten, and burned in every attempt to stop a crime, but these are primarily to push the melodrama, not to enforce realism.
To me, Batman is kinda like Pizza.
But for me, the best Batman is written by Miller.
Maybe it's because I like his writing style, or maybe it's because his fairly dark writing style really suits Batman.
Or it could just be that the very first comic I read as adult was Dark Night Returns.
Whatever the reason, this comic is in that fine Frank Miller style.
Showing Batman and Gordon at the beginning of their lives.
Both of them making mistakes.
Both of them paying for their mistakes....
If you're into Batman and you haven't read this one, you're missing out.
I would have loved it more if graphics were the work of nowadays' technology. I am planning to read my favourite superheros' origin. And I have started with my absolute-favourite superhero, Batman. I knew about his origin before. But reading it was a good experience also.There was also an appearance of Catwoman a.k.a Selina. She didn't appear much. There was just a brief intro of how she became Catwoman. She seemed to me an anti-batman.Lt. Gordon was a good character. But his affair with Sarah
I would have loved it more if graphics were the work of nowadays' technology.
I am planning to read my favourite superheros' origin.
And I have started with my absolute-favourite superhero, Batman.
I knew about his origin before.
But reading it was a good experience also.There was also an appearance of Catwoman a.k.a Selina.
She didn't appear much.
There was just a brief intro of how she became Catwoman.
She seemed to me an anti-batman.Lt. Gordon was a good character.
I highly recommend this comic if you wanna know how Batman came into being.
I loved this comic.
When James Gordon joined the Gotham City Police Department, he had no idea of the cesspool of corruption it was.
Is it?No. It's the definitive James Gordon story and it's spectacular!Batman: Year One is told from the point of view of James Gordon, the man who would later be Commissioner Gordon.
While this book was one of the ones that ushered in the era of the grim and gritty super hero, it feels authentic here and isn't grim for the sake of being grim like a lot of books that came after.Whole swathes of this book used in the Nolan trilogy.
Maybe it's just my time in Hell."One of my absolute favorite Batman comics ever.
This is probably the most accessible Batman comic ever and where new readers should start, because while The Dark Knight Returns is Batman's omega, Batman Year One is his alpha.
Jim Gordon arrives in Gotham, while twenty-five year old Bruce Wayne returns after being abroad.
Interestingly, this isn't your typical Batman versus Villains book.
But rather Batman and Jim Gordon versus Gotham.
I've seen this in several other comics, including Snyder's and Morrison's Batman runs.
Just noble Batman, a hard boiled Jim Gordon, and Gotham on a rainy night.
This was good.
I see a lot that Tim Burton pulled in for the '89 Batman movie.
This is also strangely centered on Gordon and his life.
Usually Gordon is not a focus like here.
There are some interesting and different ideas about the origin story, but I guess that is from someone who is going backwards and has seen the movies after this was written.
The story is sound and Batman has a realism here that the new DC comics have lost trying to make him so ultra dark.
It was a good read.
Meh. It was alright. It was sort of cool to see things from Gordon's perspective. I still would have liked to see a little more Bruce. I don't feel like I gained any new insight into his origins or his character. It wasn't awful, I was just hoping for more.
When it comes to comics, no character stands taller than Batman, and no Batman book has more of a reputation than Year One. Is it a chore to read?
Everyone who has even a cursory knowledge of Batman comics knows Year One is one of the first to read.
And it is - but it's also one to re-read and come back to again and again because there are a LOT of Batman books, but few of such high quality as Year One. A great beginning for the Dark Knight and the man who would be Commissioner.
I'm remembering my favorite parts of two super hero movies I was forced to sit through - Spiderman on a rooftop, trying to figure out how to get his web thingamajig to work - "Um, Shazam?" and Iron Man crashing through his grand piano.
This book covers the early years of not just Batman, but Cat Woman and James "Someday He'll Be Commissioner" Gordon as well.
Gotham City is a sin-infested cesspool with enough vice and corruption to keep these three in business for years to come.
I might hang around for a bit, even if the sound effects are not like I remember.
But this book is full of nifty little titbits.The story traces from the beginnings of the dark hero.
A more gritty and acidic side to the hero as foreseen by Frank Miller and then, the more famous generic doppelganger.The comic is a character study, and weirdly as I have come to associate with Miller, not a study of our Knight himself, but rather of the Police Commissioner Gordon who is then Lieutenant Gordon.
Whereas the bat inspires fear, Gordon lends a more relatable and humane taste to the story.
Contrary to the Tv, the Bat isn’t a kid here.
Year One is the Batman origin that everyone currently knows.
It is the origin story that until Frank Miller wrote it, did not exist.
It was the gritty, revenge seeking origin story of Bruce Wayne that audiences wanted.However, in all honesty Bruce Wayne cannot be called the protagonist in this novel.
As I recently read: the protagonist is the character which shows change and development in the novel.
However, regardless of who writes a Batman story the character is always greater than the individual writer, much like any other great character of fiction.
Instead of fighting colorful villains from his rouge's gallery Batman's target in the beginning is vice and corruption, from the junkie mugger on the street up to the very apex of political power in Gotham.Gordon, meanwhile, has moved from Chicago to Gotham under a cloud of police misconduct and is looking for a new start for himself and his pregnant wife.
What he finds is a police force riddled with corruption and naked brutality more than willing to use violence and intimidation to keep their own officers in line.I find the story itself quite engaging, especially as we see matters from both Batman's and Gordon's perspective.
I'm not a big fan of superhero origin stories, so I avoided reading Batman: Year One for awhile, but I'm really glad I finally picked it up and gave it a try.
Gordon has always been one of my favorite supporting characters in Batman's world, and I think he rarely gets his due, so it was nice to read a story that focused almost as much on him as it did on Bruce Wayne.
(Mazzucchelli also wrote an afterword for this volume in the form of a comic strip that is one of the best and wittiest appreciations of Batman's history that I've ever read.)
i can now see why people a lot of people, recommend this book to people who wants to  start with batman. .this book is the bomb. i love this. well, i still love zero year. both origin stories have their own  strengths and weaknesses,  still brilliantly done, nonetheless.full review might come. soon. -----------i have been planning to read this for a long timejust wasn't able to add it on goodreads because i'm too lazy to add stuff on here because i am a batman beatch fan. highly recommended by a
i can now see why people a lot of people, recommend this book to people who wants to 
start with batman.
.this book is the bomb.
i love this.
well, i still love zero year.
both origin stories have their own 
strengths and weaknesses,
soon.
-----------i have been planning to read this for a long timejust wasn't able to add it on goodreads because i'm too lazy to add stuff on here because i am a batman beatch fan.
highly recommended by a friend of mine.i'm scared he'll completely disown me if i don't read this soon asap.
4.5 stars We all know why Bruce Wayne became Batman .Or how he became Batman .Frank Miller's Batman Year One is the story of a naïve Batman , when he had just entered this vigilante business .
But after reading The Dark Knight Returns , I've come to expect this of him .
Overall , Batman Year One is a very good Batman origin story .
And this is his origin story .
Though I've seen it's many versions , I had never read it .
Batman: Year One is written byFrank Miller , one of few elite comic writers .
Batman: Year One: Batman and Jim Gordon's early days in a detective noir thrillerOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureFrank Miller’s Batman: The Dark Knight Returns (1986) completely reinvented Batman as angry and bitter older man coming out of retirement to stem a rising tide of crime in Gotham City alongside Police Commissioner Jim Gordon.
But what I wasn’t prepared for was the level of blatant corruption in the Gotham City police department, which Lieutenant James Gordon encounters on his first day in the force.
I've got good news and disappointing news. The disappointing news is that this "origin" story is less of a full Batman origin tale and more of a young James Gordon story. But the great news is that it's the best damn Gordon story anyone could ever ask for as he tries to navigate the crime-ridden gutters of his new home, Gotham City.
This isn't the first time I read Year One. It's actually one of the only DC books I did read when I was young.
It's actually a ballsy move when you title it "Batman" and have Gordan probably have more page time.
What I liked: Everything to do with Gordan is great.
Bruce origins has been told a million times, but back then, this was pretty great way to get into Batman.
It has the Batman tone you've come to love, two well told stories, and solid art most of the time.
Sure Catwoman is just a add on but everything else in the book is pretty impressive.
I feel like I'm a horrible person to give a Batman comic such a negative rating, and I urge everyone who happens to read my review not to trust my opinion.
You'll probably love it; the artwork is okay and the plot well-developed and fast-paced.
I have never been much of a Batman fan; neither have I ever understood the hype surrounding this figure, so I finally wanted to give one of the Batman comics a chance by reading Frank Miller's recounting of Batman's early crime fighting career.
I didn't enjoy reading it at all, but that's only a personal problem I have with it.
But as I said: don't trust me.
In 1986 Frank Miller has given The Dark Knight - and the whole world of graphic novels - a whole new dark dimension, with his legendary "The Dark Knight Returns". The next year he decides to give him a proper beginning. "Batman: Year One" follows the first year of the rise of Batman, Gordon and Harvey Dent, the three knights of Gotham. This approach - and many other themes from this book - are adopted by Christopher Nolan's trilogy. So this is the book where Batman begins, and The Dark Knight rises.Ahmad EddeebAugust 2012
Batman: Year One follows Jim Gordon as he arrives in Gotham City and makes his way through a police presence rife with corruption. At the same time, a vigilante appears, known as The Batman. Together, yet apart, they aim to purge Gotham of the worst of the scum.Pretty darn old school, it was a nice look into the beginnings of the friendship between the two.
Brief History:  To be honest, I have actually first heard about Batman through the 90s cartoon series “Batman: The Animated Series,” which apparently, I have actually had my first exposure to the world of comics through so many animated series throughout the 90s. Since I have been reading a lot of comics lately, especially the “X-Men” comics, I wanted to try a different comic book series and that is where I started reading up on “Batman.” So, the first “Batman” comic I have actually came upon r
Since I have been reading a lot of comics lately, especially the “X-Men” comics, I wanted to try a different comic book series and that is where I started reading up on “Batman.” So, the first “Batman” comic I have actually came upon recently is a little gem that I have just noticed lately and that is “Batman: Year One” by Frank Miller along with artwork by David Mazzucchelli along with coloring by Richmond Lewis.
Для справедливості зазначу, що є і просто дуже красиві формулювання, які мені не спали б на думку, а тепер користуватимуся (наприклад, поліція під час арешту кричить злочинцю “Ані руш!”) – але від того тільки прикріше за все інше.По-перше, надуживання “бути” і “мати”, які в українській мові мають значно обмеженіший ареал, ніж в англійській.
Йому кажуть: “Це має бути зручно” (ясно ж, що “Зручно, мабуть”).По-третє, біда із неповними синонімами.* Вейн просить дворецького принести “ще пляшку, бо ця вже випарувалася” – вино видихалося.
In fact, this trade paperback gives the readers the chance to live Gotham City through the eyes of Bruce Wayne (almost known as the man behind vigilante Batman) and James Gordon (Gotham City’s Police Department’s detective) as they seek their first baby steps in this city of corruption and evil.Personally, I was astonished by the artwork that got me engaged and hooked into the story line (big kudos to David Mazzucchelli’s and Richmond Lewis’s talents).
In the end, both Bruce Wayne and James Gordon fight the evil in Gotham, meet their first failures in their attempt to help and learn from their mistakes with open arms.
The artwork and color were amazing!
I enjoyed just flipping through the pages and admiring the deep colors popping out of the dark backgrounds.
Oh, and there was a story, too.
A very dark, depressing story that felt like The Dark Knight trilogy, which definitely took plenty of inspiration from these pages.
The story was full of corrupt cops, evil villains, crime, and everything you would expect to find in Gotham City.
It was a very quick read and would have been even quicker if I didn't take time to admire the illustrations.
Batman year one (1987) Modern Batman #1Year One is an absolute masterpiece and an achievement in story telling! Its not only one of the best Batman stories, but also my favorite origin story of any superhero!The foremost reason for this opinion is because of the way Frank Miller weaved the story together. Frank Miller not only builds the character of Bruce Wayne/Batman, but also lays foundation to a deeply corrupted underbelly of Gotham city, introduces Cat woman and gives the origin story Jim Gordon deserves.
My first comic-book ever! It was <3!!!
The result is Frank Miller's highly influential, much revered four-issue work Batman: Year One.Going back to the early days of the Batman saga, the story chronicles the rise of not only Batman but also Jim Gordon.
A disgraced officer from another city, Gordon comes into the corrupt world of Gotham politics and starts trying to make a difference.
Meanwhile, Bruce Wayne is taking is first tentative steps toward becoming the savior that Gotham needs and trying to avenge the death of his parents.If you've seen Batman Begins, you've seen elements of this story realized on-screen.
Year One works extremely well because of the parallel view points of Gordon and Bruce Wayne.
کمیک به روزهای ابتدایی بتمن می پردازه.
فیلم "بتمن آغاز میکند" از کریستوفر نولان تا حد زیادی از روی این کمیک اقتباس کرده (تقابل بتمن و پلیس های فاسد مثل "فلاس"، تقابل با رییس مافیا "فالکونی"، استفاده از خفاش ها برای فرار و، انتهای داستان که با معرفی جوکر تموم میشه و...)نسبت به کمیک دیگه ی همین نویسنده (شوالیه ی تاریکی باز میگردد) خیلی ضعیف بود.
بیشتر از اون که به شخصیت بتمن بپردازه و انگیزه های بتمن شدنش، به گوردون و پلیس فاسد گاتهام پرداخته بود.یکی دو تا شخصیت که معرفی شدن هم (از جمله سلینا کایل/زن گربه ای، یا آلفرد خدمتکار بتمن) خیلی مختصر و بدون پرداخت بودن.خلاصه، خیلی میتونست بهتر از این باشه.
I read this slim volume in an hour or so, because I've long heard good things about this take on Batman's origins and earliest days, and I heard it was a source of inspiration for Christopher Nolan's Batman films, for which my appreciation has only grown after seeing them both again recently.
I also like the way that, like the films, this tale addresses the issue of escalation among the criminals of Gotham.
These heightened criminal elements are, in a way, a result of Batman's existence.But, yeah, mostly it's about Jim Gordon for me.
