https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136642.The_Ice_Limit
Bring your Dramamine for an action packed adventure on a tanker headed for The Ice Limit.By now, if you have been following my reviews, you know that I think Preston and Child can do no wrong.
If all those things interest you, you should probably be headed to The Ice Limit right now.Oh, and (view spoiler)[there is a cliffhanger!
I was not expecting this book to have one (not that you should expect it - kind of defeats the purpose) but I have always thought this was a complete stand alone with only a little overflow into the Pendergast series.
I guess their recent book, Beyond the Ice Limit, really is a sequel.
Eli Glinn, the president of EES has a 100% success rate on all difficult and dangerous missions.So let's go get a meteor boys!So now we have most of the players in the book and the plot but you'll have to read this for the wild ride of your life...on a tanker!
He objects to all the bribes that are being accepted in his country and doesn't believe EES is mining for gold.This book felt like reading an action movie, mindlessly eating popcorn and not being able to take your eyes off the last 20% of the story!That ending.
A good read and a nice cliff hanger!
A scientific thriller set near the bottom of the world, THE ICE LIMIT delivers everything Preston & Child are known for....in SPADES! Great characters that seem almost larger than life and a very compelling adventure to retrieve a mysterious giant meteorite from an island south of Cape Horn. A daunting task for the members of Effective Engineering Solutions (EES). P & C deliver again!
3.25 🌟While this was no Pendergast not even in the same league in terms of content and quality, still this was an extremely fast paced, adrenaline rush inducing and engaging read. B.U.T that ending? It left a lot to be desired.There is a sequel I see... not reading anytime soon.
Imagine, you're a 'meteorite' hunter ('Sam MacFarlane') hired by one of the richest moguls in the planet ('Palmer Lloyd'), to recover a breakthrough scientific discovery near the heart of the Ice Limit in Antarctica!
Oh, and did I tell you they have to sail amongst some of the gnarliest, meanest currents in the depths of planet earth to rescue this damn meteorite??What makes this book a true 'gem' is how the authors have created the main protagonist as the 'meteor' itself, not any other humans!
Its got unrelenting action, a narrative that is packed with fascinating characters and a meteor that is a time-bomb waiting to explode!5 Stars
Loved the science, mystery and action of this book immensely! Great characters and a great storyline overall. Everything I'm looking for in a good mystery/thriller/action story. Looking forward very much to reading the sequel.
I I recommend Preston and Child novices start here, because although Relic, their first book is great, I don't think it has as strong or as sustained or as logical a plot as Ice Limit.
As in any thriller, events occur in Ice Limit that seem to come out of thin air, but unlike other Preston/Child works, these incidents fit more neatly into the overall story and theme of the book.My only complaint is Preston and Child keep teasing us with a sequel.
Their new character, Gideon Crew, is working for Eli Glinn.
I listened to the audiobook.The plot of Ice Limit involves one man's aversion to failure, one man's ethics turned upside down, and two men's obsession with a very dense rock.Hate to say it, but I am disappointed in this book. After reading Mount Dragon, I was expecting a thrill ride. Instead, the story is bogged down in character development (those pesky characters!). The best part of the story is the last 40 minutes!
First, let me say that I LOVE Preston-Child's Pendergast Series.
Insanely so.
And this book would have had a 4 star review...
right up until those last few chapters.
well, wrote the worst ending I've read in years.I can't even describe how far my WTF Meter went into the red.
Five chapters that should have been ten, character acting completely, er, out of character, needless deaths, and a final paragraph that made me hurl the book against the wall.
I'm only a few chapters into "Dragon Mount" and I'm hesitant to read any further.
I'm reading the sequel to this book based only on its very last sentence. My impression is this isn't a bad book but it had so much filler... to the point that I'm thinking this entire novel could have been shrunk down to about 20 pages and used as a prologue to the sequel.
Needed a thrilling adventure, so tried a non-Pendergast Preston novel. Not exactly gripping, but good enough to keep me turning the pages. I enjoy stories that take me to the far reaches of civilization. I then research further and learn some cool things. In this case, Cape Horn.
It is severely hampered by being almost totally linear, and most of the book takes place in one setting, and that setting is the monotonous cold sea, snow and ice south of Tierra del Fuego.
They seemed similar in their quiet demeanor and tight control over their domains.One thing that bugged me about Lloyd - in an effort to show how he has no objection to spending whatever it takes to get what he wants, the authors have him saunter into an auction and bid $100 million on an item whose highest bid wasn't even half of that amount.
Read by Scott Brick.6hrs 37secMeteorites and diamonds and death in South America. Good enough to have on in the background.#31 TBR Busting 2013
I’m a big fan of Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child, so it’s no surprise that I loved this book.
Once again I read one of Preston and Child’s books out of order in the series (yes, I mistakenly read the sequel “Beyond the Ice Limit” before reading this one - no matter, it just makes more sense now).
I love the attention to detail whether it’s about the science of meteorites or the operation of oil tankers.
In the afterward, the authors say the inspiration for the book came, in part, from a mission Admiral Perry and team undertook in Greenland.
Moderately exciting with some novel ideas but not great.
After reading this Preston/Child novel, my first reaction to it was that it would almost certainly make a pretty awesome movie.
I say this because in book form The Ice Limit seems to lack a lot of things.
I love Preston/Child, but this may be my least-favorite book of theirs so far.
By that I mean that the book tries to hold up a lot of scientific facts and procedure with a not-so-interesting plot so that, when things start to get cool, it all feels rather anticlimactic.
In short, a fun story that didn't quite interest me like most of Preston-Child's work always seems to do.
How much did I hate this audiobook?
......As much as I hate those sappy, overwrought personal interest stories they play on the sports channels when they run out of stuff to talk about.
As a matter of fact, that's exactly what this audiobook sounds like, minus the violins.
I usually like Scott Brick, but this is awful.
Didn't like the story, either.
I gave it 2 stars because we can't give it zero and I know for a fact that there are a few books out there that are actually worse.
Oh heck, I'm talking one of the stars away anyway!
A high-octane suspenseful story that will have you turning pages while the lasagna burns. The characters are relatively flat (although that is not unusual for the genre), and the plot is often predictable, but there are a handful of exciting twists and turns. If you're a fan of technothrillers, The Ice Limit is sure to please. My only complaint is that, instead of a proper ending, we are left with a half dozen fictional news articles intended to wrap up the story. It feels more like the first volume in a multi-volume series. Fortunately, the authors have promised a sequel.
Ci casco sempre. Poi mi pento, ma intanto ci casco. Questo romanzo, acquistato e letto nel 2006, costava proprio una miseria, superscontato com’era: neanche 5 euro. Per questo l’ho preso. Una marea di parole per non raccontare assolutamente niente. Peggio per me, così imparo a essere così cretina.
This is one of these best edge of your seat action books EVER!!! I love this book and the main character (who shows up in other books by these authors) is one of my favorites. If you like action and a little bit of adventure, high-seas and science-fiction, this is for you!
As entertaining as I expected from this pair of authors! Love their stories. This one was easy to read, and page-turning that kept me reading too late and carrying my book around the house. If you like Preston/Child books, then this is another good one.
Really more of a thriller than sci-fi. Some fun passages about engineering challenges. The characters were a little stereotyped and some were not very believable. There were a few original sci-fi ideas, but they were barely developed.
My favorite of the Preston and Child duo.
Throw in a disgraced planetary geologist, an obsessed billionaire, a details-oriented manager to whom failure is never an option, an obsessively nationalistic Chilean naval commandant determined to prevent them from "expropriating" his country's treasure and the usual female genius, (every Preston novel has one as a love interest of the male protagonist) a retrofitted tanker made into the most sophisticated ore carrier in existence, and the last full-blood member of the Indians of the Tierra del Fuego as a guide, (who speaks English perfectly well in a cockney accent) and you've got a pretty interesting story.
So not my favorite by the author. E.G. Seemed out of character from appearances in other novels and it bothered me- a lot. I value consistency and development of character and that was lacking for Glen. The female characters seemed underdeveloped as well. Especially the captain (who made such an impression I've already forgotten her name). I enjoyed the action of the plot. Too bad there weren't wonderful characters to tell it.
Good read!Preston and Child have come up with an interesting and exciting novel that takes several unexpected twists. While it was an enjoyable read, it seems to lack the normal 'Pendergastian' energy. The sequel should prove to be a bit more interesting...I hope!Recommended.
An exciting, thrilling adventure story featuring Eli Glinn and his company Effective Engineering Solutions (which readers of the agent Pendergast series will recognize) as they lead a major research and recovery exhibition at the southern tip of South America. You will be compelled to read book two, Beyond the Ice Limit to find out how the story ends.
What a nail biter!! The way the chapters were written and titled built up tension as the story moved forward. The characters were very interesting and each flawed in their own critical way to add to the tension and work with or against the other characters. While the idea for the book was borrowed from a real event - it was completely unpredictable. Loved it! A mystery I couldn't figure out well before the end...thank you authors!
Another excellent Preston and Child adventure thriller.
