https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/142492.Vile_Bodies
Waugh writes with a comical touch, precisely using the sort of characters he more than likely would have associated with in his own life.
While there are many happening throughout Vile Bodies, involving gossip columns, parties, and even the Prime Minister, it's recurring theme is one of the 'Bright Young Things', Adam Fenwick Symes, and the hunt for his £1,000, or even £35,000 based on the elusive drunk Major who may have placed a bet on a horse.
A few characters in Vile Bodies find a way to make a decent living off of indecency, mainly as gossip columnists for the London press.
Unputdownable; both excitingly modern & original, a novel about manners & society and all that jazz.
I have seriously not read something this comical and smart and sad since (my all-time fave) “A Confederacy of Dunces.” The sharp dialogue is more than clever: it constructs a full little universe in which bright young creatures can party it up like there’s no tomorrow.
Love everything about it: the tone, the pace, the interaction of so many personalities.
Fantastic: I read all 321 pages in one sitting!
Inspiring, whimsical, hella original, and as witty as any play of manners by Oscar Wilde.
2.5 starsWaugh’s second novel is a rather bleak comic satire on the “Bright Young Things” of the 1920s.
Most of the book follows a series of parties and happenings in the tradition of the real life Waugh is satirising.
Adam is a writer/journalist and writes (makes up) a gossip column following the suicide of the previous occupant of the role.
Now, it must be said that Waugh can write and some of this is funny.
If you want to read about the English upper classes in a satirical and comic way in a world populated by ridiculous and shallow characters then read Wodehouse; he’s better.
"Ooooh what's that shiny thing, it's hurting my eyes.""Sorry, that'd be me, I'm a bright young thing.
Avert your eyes lest they be burned from their sockets.""Wow, so what is a bright young thing then?
we bright young things are an erudite group of social laaah-de-dahs who favour a bohemian life style.
Sometimes we talk a bit like the cast of Dawson's Creek would if they were transposed to 1920's London.
If you'd like to put us in a modern context, we're like the cast of The Hills but we've got culture, money and talent on our side.
Ние сме същата онази Златна младеж, обаче на 21-ви век – залутани, объркани, неспокойни, постоянно търсещи.
Ивлин Уо е описал сегашните млади хора преди век.
Както току се случва в някое поколение, Златната младеж е на кръстопът и се колебае накъде да поеме, и е вцепенена от собствената си нерешителност.„Познавам много малко младежи, но ми се струва, че всички те са обзети почти изцяло от една фатална жажда за непреходни ценности.
Те казват: „Ако нещо не си струва да се направи добре, не си струва да се прави въобще“.Историята е печално известна със склонността си да се повтаря.
Vile bodies, vile people, vile attitudes, only they could have named themselves 'bright young things'. Good book, Evelyn Waugh knows his own kind but also knows how to send them up.
so full of characters that one would love to share a bottle (or 40) of fizz with.My perfect little paperback edition of this novel literally fills me with joy every time I glance it's way.When this book was written I imagine it was non to popular with the well behaved masses.This charming volume is filled with every kind of debauchery you could partake of during the 20's, 30's and 40's.- Drugs, alcohol, sex.
I want to be one of the Bright Young People who so corrupt 'modern' society.Everything about this story is decadence, and in being so makes the perfect escapist volume I've ever had the joy of coming across.
Very interesting and a different world to today. So much scandal and great characters.I felt it was slow at parts. Some characters i loved and some i really didnt.  Everyone just seemed like upper class socicalite rebels. I heard a quote that i found matched what I thought of the book:"Vile Bodies, Vile People, Vile Attitudes"
Vile Bodies captures the world of the "Bright Young Things", a privileged and wealthy elite in the 1920s, and their associated misspent youth, self indulgence, anarchic behaviour, and easy attitudes to sex and drugs.
In a sense this is what the 1920s is best remembered for, and for some it must have felt right, after the trauma of World War One, and with Victorian values in decline, for young people to enjoy themselves.There is much to admire and enjoy in Vile Bodies, however this is one of Evelyn Waugh's less successful novels (measured against his exceptionally high standards).
Vortex of Vapid Rubbish Devolving into NothingnessEach time I picked up this "novel," the question vexed me: how could it be that the same author who wrote the brilliant Brideshead Revisited also composed this doggerel volcano of vice and vileness, devoid of characters, dialogue and plot of any substance, value or virtue?This short novel comes across as either a manic pervert's puerile idea of high-brow humor and wit or his successful stab at literary sadism.Setting down the book was like walking away from a vortex of vapid rubbish that, in the end, devolved into nothingness.
This is the second book I've read by Evelyn Waugh. The first book I read was The Loved One which I thought was fabulous, a five star read all the way. With this book he was attempting to be humorous and for me it fell flat. Don't get me wrong, there were some really cute parts but having just read The Loved One, I was expecting more. 😕
Therefore, if you look for a cleverly deployed plot, strong characters and coherent actions, or balanced oppositions and moral battlegrounds, Evelyn Waugh is definitely not for you.
Absurd scenes scroll in front of our eyes, presenting a gathering of characters – inspired by those “bright young things” who made the gossip columns' delight of interwar London – caught in a frenetic attempt to fill their boring lives with outrageous actions.
As a matter of fact, she's my mother.""My dear, how too shaming."If you’ve got a taste for Ronald Firbank’s prose and you enjoy seeing Thomas Hardy getting skewered, I think you’ll gleefully sink your teeth into Waugh’s Vile Bodies (1930).
If you ever think of reading Waugh’s best known book Brideshead Revisted, you may want to set the table for it first by reading some of his satires.
Their vast casts, wispy plots, and period jokes will take a little patience, but in the end you may better enjoy Waugh’s style and essentially moral outlook by first playing with him while he’s young and nipping.
I think I prefer Waugh's more subtle work but would have to read more to be sure.Then there are some great passages that I really did love such as the following.The truth is that motor cars offer a very happy illustration of the metaphysical distinction between "being" and "becoming." Some cars, mere vehicles with no purpose above bare locomotion, mechanical drudges such as Lady Metroland's Hispan-Suiza, or Mrs. Mouse's Rolls Royce, or Lady Circumference's 1912 Daimler, or  the "general reader's" Austin Seven, these have definite "being" just as much as their occupants....
(p 227)Certainly Waugh reveals a strong, developing talent in this novel.
Well, no, not quite, not by about 53 years and an ocean, but I do live in New York, where desperate social climbers - the "see and be seen-ers" - and tacky people with a bit of money proliferate against my wishes.
The difference is that somewhere along the road, we stopped satirizing these people and took to glorifying them instead.
Waugh clearly does this well, but I just wonder if Vile Bodies is a bit too long.
The point of a satire is the satire itself - the plot is secondary at best, and since one isn't supposed to care about the characters, satire that's gone on for too long gets tedious.
For this is a love story which seems destined to fail, as Adam no sooner arrives on dry land to find that luck, and money, are extremely elusive.As with so many of Waugh’s novels, the humour is satirical, sly and sharp.
Having finally spent the night with Adam, Nina declares that, “for physical pleasure she would rather go to her dentist any day,” while Adam (or Waugh himself) plaintively pleads that, “marriage ought to go on for quite a long time I mean, do you feel that too, at all?”I found this took a little while to get going, but, eventually, I was unable to put it down.
It's really fun and quick to read - satirical and absurdist - and suddenly toward the end I started to think that maybe it's not a little but quite a bit deeper than it looks.
Very nicely done.Other random notes:- A quote that comes up a lot in discussion of this book, from Waugh: "Psychology - there isn't such a thing.
(hide spoiler)]- I love Waugh's use of -making, as in, "This cab ride is terribly sober-making." Totally gonna start using that.- Apparently many of these characters were thinly-veiled portraits of Waugh's actual acquaintances, and it was a big thing to rush out and get his books and try to figure out who was who.
My edition of this book has a blurb by the New York Time's that says "It may shock you, but it will make you laugh".
Well New York Times, let's see the tally shall we: times I was shocked by this book = zero; times I laughed = maybe two and a half, but it wasn't a hearty laugh, it was more of a sarcastic "Ha!" Now, a better blurb in my opinion would have been: "It will make you roll your eyes incessantly." This is my third Evelyn Waugh, and I'm beginning to suspect that he is a one note writer (or rather he was).
Stephen Fry filmed it under the title Bright Young Things. Implausible aristos and hangers on, and often written in brief banal sentences that are more reminiscent of Janet and John reading primers than good literature and perhaps shows how shallow and ephemeral these people were. Nevertheless, very readable.
4.5 StarsFirst published in 1930, Vile Bodies was Evelyn Waugh’s second novel, a wickedly funny satire about the farcical escapades of London’s Bright Young People from the high society set.
I enjoyed it a lot – much more than Waugh’s debut, Decline and Fall, which I liked in parts but not as a whole.
Interestingly, Vile Bodies was more successful than D&F on its release, catching the attention of both the critics and the public alike.
Definitely recommended for readers with an interest in the period.The novel centres on Adam Fenwick-Symes, an aspiring writer who has just drafted his memoirs with a view to finalising the details with his publishers.
I finished and thought about it for awhile when like a thunderbolt the true value of the book hit me.
The parody of the romantic comedy centers around Adam Fenwick-Symes, reportedly a bright, young, up and coming novelist who has as his love interest, another bright young thing, Nina.
The obstacle in their path, the one thing holding them back from marrying is their lack of money.
Adam's quest for enough money to marry is hilarious as is Nina's reaction when the funds are within sight then out again.
In the end, I realized that the book was much better than I had first thought.
The various shenanigans entail a cocktail party, a car race and more besides.
Adam and Nina are joined by a host of parodied characters, who include the amoral Drunken Major, the absent-minded Colonel Blount and the ever-offensive Miss Malpractice.Published in 1930, Vile Bodies is a satirical novel with only a faint whiff of a plot; its primary purpose being satirising decadent 1920s London society.
The party-frequenting ‘bright young things’ that populate it are presented as vapid, materialistic, intellectual and prone to excess.
Perhaps the shift reflects the breakdown of the author’s marriage during this period.This reader found Vile Bodies curious, mildly amusing and unmemorable.
Superb satire, downright funny at times, with silly characters flailing about and making poor decisions, but I feel strangely melancholic about the ending - which, I suppose, was Waugh's intent.
Adam and Nina are part of a set of Bright Young People, led by the hilariously dotty Agatha Runcible- when a seriously hung-over Agatha discovers she is breakfasting in Hawaiian costume at number 10 Downing Street – I nearly snorted all over the bus I was travelling on.
The lives of these Bright Young People as they have been named -are a continuing round of parties and gossip, their antics frequently shocking traditional society through the colourful accounts that appear in the newspapers.
From the first pages of Vile Bodies I was filled with the delicious anticipation of forthcoming satirical wit, but just as I experienced with Brideshead, Handful of Ashes, and even Decline and Fall, the rest of the book left me still wanting.
while they reappear throughout the book in various little episodes, never feel skeweringly sharp or nearly as clever as they were going to be in my imagination, back on page 5.The vignette that is clearly central and by far the most entertaining, was that of Adam, a young writer who has just finished his first novel, for which he's been paid a hefty advance.
It's a satirical and deceptively whimsical take on wealth and debauchery in the 1920's. Sort of like a children's book for adults! There are an awful lot of characters, but I suppose it's the nature of this book to flit about. And actually, I think it carries more depth than is generally acknowledged. In any case, it does a beautiful job of bringing that period to life.I've heard that Nina was based on Nancy Mitford, but I'm not certain of that.
At first I wasn’t particularly enjoying this and it seemed it would be a bit of a slog.
I thought perhaps not being of the English interwar years or knowing about the “it” people of the time, I was basically missing all the jokes and there wasn’t any more to it.
But then I hit a few parts were the boredom with all the parties and shenanigans started to show and it suddenly struck me that it was awfully similar to the expats in Korea lifestyle.
And then the plot itself got a bit grimmer and, I think, more interesting towards the end as well.
I fear that, if 'Vile Bodies' is typical of his work, I shall have to add Evelyn Waugh to the list of critically acclaimed and popular writers whom I simply can't get to grips with.
As a result, Wodehouse and Benson seem to have an affection for their characters that Waugh does not.
5/10.PS: I don't want to make too much of this but I should add that the word that begins with 'n' that is these days quite rightly regarded as racist appears a few times in the edition of 'Vile Bodies' that I have just read, a 1951 Penguin Books orange paperback reprint (see page 119).
There are lots of members of the “Things” introduced in his story; if you are trying to pick out the main characters you will have difficulties until you are further into the book.
You eventually settle on Adam Symes as the person of interest.
He gets himself involved into the circle of BYT’s and goes to party after party with them, trying to tap into some of their members who had money which he badly needed.
You will have a great time following the adventures of Adam and his various love affairs in this book.
If you have not read Waugh before, this book may encourage you to read more.
This is really a Three-and-a-half star book.I enjoyed this.
It was fairly typical of pre-war Waugh.
Much of Waugh's social critique could be leveled at today's society as well.
His characters seemed, for all their dated speech and clothing, to be people that I knew.
The conversation that Outrage, Lord Metroland and Father Rothschild have about 'Young People,' toward the end of chapter VIII, is positively contemporary.
But these young people have got hold of another end of the stick, and for all we know it may be the right one.
