https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3526.First_Love_Last_Rites
But, man you can write.
I have come to expect the warped characters you write about, yet you still manage to surprise me.
The way you get into their heads...wow.This was me reading your collection of stories (most of this happened inside my head, but some of it happened audibly):{read read read} Sigh…beautiful.{read read read} Yeah.{read read read} Goddamn it.
Asshole.{read read read} Wha - What?
{read read read} AW, NAW!
{read read read} Nononononono...OH!And that was just one story.
And you keep doing that.Whenever I read a collection of stories, I am tempted to pick my favorites and talk about them.
These stories are narrated in a remarkably passionate way, offering no moral stance, interested merely in seeing where a boundary could lie and crossing it.
They live lives of loneliness and deprivation, filled with a quiet thirst for some sort of fulfillment.McEwan remarked that in these stories he experimented with finding his own voice as an author, try different things and discover himself as a writer.
This story is the clearest example of McEwan experimenting with different genres and conventions, combining his interest in personal dynamics with elements of horror and speculative fiction.
My relationship with Ian McEwan did not get off to a good start.
I was an 18-year-old student at Cambridge, and a friend came to visit over the weekend.
That evening, he went out to visit another person he knew in town, and came back late and much the worse for wear, after having sampled the beer in three or four pubs.
I remember commenting approvingly that, if he was anyway going to be sick, he had picked the very best spot in the room to do it.Who would have guessed that McEwan would now be one of my favorite authors?
Is this his intention here?All the stories apart from 'Cocker' and 'Disguises' are written in the first person, presumably an attempt to 'enable us to be inside the mind of a murderer/fiend/tosser'; To make us more sympathetic or understanding of the struggles of people sexually sick in mind?
There is no value to this collection, it is a man scratching his groin very brazenly in public and unzipping his flies and waving it about.Thank God I came to these stories having read some of his later work otherwise I would not have bothered to pick up another of his books ever again.
Butterflies, like the following story, Conversation with a Cupboard Man, actually do the most difficult thing of all - making you sympathize with a narrator who is a child molester, and another who is raised as a small child well into adulthood.
I'm glad that Ian McEwan found other subjects - widely varied in his later career (which spans literary genres with ease) because it really is that incredible range that makes him such an incredible writer.
Sooner or later I'll make my way through the remaining McEwan novels (only a handful left) but now that I've gone all the way to the start, I feel more confident than ever that he is our greatest living writer.
An early collection of short stories, all but one told in the first person, many of them teenagers or young men, yet their voices invariably ring true.
Some events are shocking and depraved, but even in those stories, you get an uncomfortable but plausible and powerful insight into the mind of the perpetrator.
Although you could easily read the book in one sitting, it’s probably best to read one story at a time, interspersed with other things, as many will leave a nasty taste in your metaphorical mouth.
NB McEwan was only 27 when this was published, and three years later, there was the equally shocking "Cement Garden" (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...).
For example, every situation becomes about feeling safe and secure for the overly sheltered narrator of "Conversation with a Cupboard Man." He even partially enjoys being trapped in an oven while he's cleaning it because it reminds him of his youthful confinement.While the stories are diverse, many of them are linked by their salacious content.
When the male character is out eel fishing, he notes the following: "I was amazed at how soon the clean white rope from the chandlers had become like all other rope near the river, brown and hung about with fine strands of green weed."And, if there is one story here that suggests there are monsters or evil things lurking just beneath the surface of reality, it is this one.
★★★★☆ (4/5)A collection of disturbing albeit interesting stories. We traverse through the minds of a pedophile, a murderer, a child whose sense of identity has convoluted, a couple experiencing alienation, a disgruntled husband and many more. The stories are unsettling, but the beautifully vivid and emphatic prose keeps the reader's curiosity elevated. Solid Geometry• Your sentimental Buddhism, this junk-shop mysticism, joss-stick therapy, magazine astrology … none of it is yours, you’ve worked
Sometimes when we heard Adrian on his way up the stairs she glanced across at me and seemed to betray herself by a slight pursing of her beautiful lips.•	Then Sissel found a job and it made me see we were different from no one, they all had rooms, houses, jobs, careers, that’s what they all did, they had cleaner rooms, better jobs, we were anywhere’s striving couple
The eight elegaic stories in this collection: "Homemade" "Solid Geometry" "Last Day of Summer" "Cocker at the Theatre" "Butterflies" "Conversation with a Cupboard Man" "First Love, Last Rites" "Disguises" In order of preference?
Having no friends, very little social contact, he decides he wants this girl to love him, to want him, to be his only friend.
He still feels safest in enclosed spaces, in the darkness, with childhood things like baby blankets...
"Last Day of Summer" Cute story about befriending a fat girl who moves in with protagonist/brother in their cabin by the water, who are newly orphaned.
The inclusion of (I hazard the term 'lighter') stories like 'Last Day of Summer' and 'Cocker at the Theatre' adds balance, and 'Solid Geometry' is similarly great, though a little ill-fitting.It's fortunate then that the force of McEwan's prose (even here in this fledgling state) is so arresting that it qualifies any subject matter as superb short story fodder.
Compared to the other stories, 'Last Day of Summer' is quite a different beast, one that put me in the mind of Sallinger's short fiction, particularly his Glass family stories.
FolgoranteNon ho altri aggettivi per descrivere una delle più belle raccolte di racconti che abbia mai sfogliato.Benché il mio primo approccio con l'autore fosse stato segnato dalla delusione, ho preteso di rifarmi e sono stata più che ripagata.L'esplorazione del primo amore, il sesso consumato come rito iniziatico, il desiderio perturbante dell'altro sono solo alcuni dei temi che McEwan pone al centro di una narrazione ora essenziale, costruita su flash folgoranti, ora arricchita da una lingua che fiorisce e inventa con invidiabile disinvoltura.Come suggerisce il titolo, una lettura che è quasi un rito e sfoglia l'innocenza con autoptica incisività.
Perversion is one of those things we don't talk of, yet is inherent in us all. Some embrace it, others are in complete denial and others still nurture it in the darkness while pretending to the world that there is only light. The beauty with which McEwan writes about perversion satisfies my curious side. The language and storytelling is excellent. Must read for those who believe that one's own perversion and perhaps the macabre can be spoken well by another.
I didn't realise this collection of short stories had been re-published in a collection ('The Short Stories') which I had already read.
However it was 2010 when I read this, and hence I'd forgotten almost everything I'd consumed back then, except that it was read on the train home from work.
It was a pleasure, though not always pleasant, to re-read these tales.It's a strange mix, themes of sex and adolescent confusion recurring repeatedly, and though this short format is ideal for exploring strange avenues, at times I felt like the author was aiming to shock as opposed to writing what he might have without aspects of the audience in mind.
In fact, I'm not sure I could tell the difference between an early McEwan story and your typical King story.
One could argue that McEwan is more polished than King, also more psychological than paranormal, but these differences would be measured in small degrees.First Love, Last Rites was McEwan's very first book.
A collection of stories, it was published in 1975, around the same time Stephen King was getting his start.
Enough with comparison, Ian McEwan's writing was dark, full of taboos, and that's all there is to say about it.As with most collections, the stories are rather uneven.
I definitely have a love-hate type relationship with Ian McEwan.
This collection of short stories veers closer to the hate end of the see-saw.
The content isn't the most savoury, dealing with a variety of unpleasant acts and people (think rape, incest, paedophilia, child murder and abuse, neglectful parents, often in the same story).
Not an easy achievement.
I think my favourite story was 'Last Day of Summer' which conjures up a great cast of characters, immense sadness and sense of loss met with a glimpse of normality and joy.
Not an easy book to like or read perhaps but interesting.
Permeating through each story is a clammy, understated fear - seen, for example, in the sentimental end to Summer and, more obviously, in the advantages taken by adults over those less able or aware of the norm.
This strikes in the reader, who endures some heart-rending scenes of depravity, a terror that is difficult to shake, simply because there is too much truth in what are actually quite surreal stories.
Here is a writer well aware of what makes a human human - describing perfectly our inner demons, the precariousness of our individuality, and the often imperceptible shift from right to wrong.
This is a very disturbing collection. Rape, incest, forbidden love, juvenile antics, etc. It's not gross per se, Ian has this thing where he writes about potentially gross endings but he prepares you for it. You kinda know what's coming up next but you can't not flip the pages, you want to know. He's a master craftsman of story telling and subject matter aside, these are some very impressive stories. Mildly Disturbing though it is, this is an impressive collection.
Difficult to use one rating for complex literature.... subject matter, dark and troubling, but the writing is amazing.
The stories where a girl is raped by her brother, or where a girl is first assaulted and then (sort of accidentally) murdered by a neighbor boy, or where a nagging wife is folded into non-existence by her theorizing husband, these, on the other hand, lack the nuance in which both characters get to be real, or in which there is moral complication about what is being done TO women and girls, or that they are anything more than the canvasses on which sexual shame and make fantasy get played.Like all his work I have read, his prose are masterful.
It becomes a problem when what could have been good prose butts up against his awkward and ham-fisted attempts to be experimental ('Disguises' reads like someone who'd just read Beckett but couldn't work out why not to turf out some lame surface-level mimicry), or shocking (there's nothing surprising about the paedophile or the incest or the on-stage sex or the penis in a jar once you've read one of them), or even somewhere above mid-literary in the way a young white middle class male in the 70s could easily decide to be without fear of nobody giving a shit.The best piece in here is, I think, 'Last Day of Summer', because it does at least contain something of the naturalness of the sense of disruption and memory that its content moves towards, and I doubt it's any coincidence it's also the least self-consciously 'edgy' of these stories.
Hmm, missed that.
Whoops, missed that one too.
McEwan is morbid, I'll grant you that, but macabre?
The prose is okay, but "crafted with a lyricism and intensity that compel us to confront our secret kinship with the horrifying..."?
Perhaps I have already arrived at my "secret kinship with the horrifying" and McEwan's words have no power to compel me to do anything beyond turning the next page in hope of finding out what all the fuss is about.
This is my second McEwan book, and I have been disappointed with both.
Yes yes it was well written stuff I suppose but really I found myself losing interest quite rapidly towards the end.
The final two stories felt like they would last FOREVER.The writing of these stories of everyday people doing everyday things before the perverse or shocking (not in the sense that it was a surprise) twist was a novel idea that kept me reading and interested longer because of the first person narrative longer than if it had been a critical third person style but that wasn't enough to entertain me.I've never tried any other McEwan books, this was the only one that sounded even remotely of interest to me and in that it seems to have failed.
I get why these short stories are smart and written masterfully, and why they brought the author such critical acclaim.
I would have probably loved the book more if not for the unsettling feeling it aims to create in the reader's gut (quite successfully, in my case at least).The stories aim for breaching taboo topics and making them familiar, almost at as random but oh so expected occurrences.
At points, I tended to even resent the author for making me read this (although it's true that no one was making me read it, right?) and even get suspicious when noticing that somehow men never seem to be on the receiving end of these horrible acts in his narratives.
This short story collection was not at all what I'd expected from Ian McEwan, but then, this is some of his earliest work.
Seven out of eight of these short tales focus on disparate male characters, and I found all of them disturbing.
Actually, I had a hard time getting past the first story, Homemade.
There were a couple stories about little boys that were troubling, to say the least.
And yet, I kept reading because--Ian McEwan does seem to arrange words with a certain flair (he writes well).
First Love, Last Rites is the first published work of Ian McEwan and the first collection of his short stories to win the Somerset Maugham award.
I must say I prefer the work of the more mature McEwan.
This collection of stories is extremely disturbing and I had to take a break after the third story (a first for me for a McEwan book).
Why can't his characters be permitted to enjoy a perfect summer?
In "The Last Day of Summer" and "Butterflies", the unexpected and startling unravelling of horror was superbly staged.
Another book I can read only once.
He dwells here mostly on the morbid and the macabre and the disturbing, and for a developing author, doesn't do too badly on pulling it off—one or two of the stories are genuinely effective.
He often tries too hard for a Shocking Denouement, however, which for me had the opposite effect to that which he no doubt intended (and I found his Oh So Daring explorations of incest and child abuse less disturbing than I did his framing of women/femininity).
The dialogue (even in the best of the collection, 'Strange Geometry') was also dreadfully clunky at times.
I don't know why I've waited 30 years to read this, when it's been sitting on my shelves and I know I love Ian McEwan's early writing, and I did love this.
It's very dark and often gruesome, but that's what I like - that many of the stories we see from the evil-character's mind.
Not that even the evil-character is only one-dimensional, McEwan's writing is too clever for that.
I had some favourites: Solid geometry, Last day of summer, and First love, last rites.
My least favourite was the last (which was a shame), Disguises.
This reading was shocking, the stories are dark and I hated! Between the stories and yourself there was not an author or anybody else; just yourself and the stories! He was just an eye to show you a picture; nothing more. Stories finished as they are, he did not accused or punished any one; so you are not sutisfied end of the day! They are dark but as a literature it is very good.
Ian McEwan a jeho prvotina. Ian McEwan a panoptikum nejruznejsich postav. Ian McEwan a rada tabuizovanych temat. Naprosto me to dostalo. Nemela jsem pocit, ze se autor snazi sokovat, vsechno plynulo strasne prirozene. Popis je syrovy, dialogy strucne a vystizne. Je to tak narusene, az je to skvele!
If you can handle shocking, twisted plots about the dark side of human nature and ordinary people's daily life. If you don't mind reading at-times offensive stories and characters, you have to read this one!
