https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/722251.Conjure_Wife
It is set in a small American college filled with pseudo-gothic architecture (keep your eye on those gargoyles--they may be important later!) and where the petty politics are so nasty they remind me of an old joke: "Why are academic politics so vicious?" "Because the stakes are so small."For the first half of the book, the premise pretty much writes itself as we observe the harrying of nice young sociology prof Norman Saylor and his wife Tansy--poor, bare forked animals deprived of the comforts of witchcraft.
Norman casts a spell at the behest of an endangered Tansy, and he completes it on time--well, almost on time, and then.
He is unconventional and disliked by the college's conservative intelligentsia, but has still somehow managed to climb to the top: Tansy, looked down upon by the professors' prim wives, has also managed to survive and become quite popular.
As he faces imminent annihilation, Tansy takes the curse upon herself and now it is up to Norman to save her and normalcy in a desperate race against time.-------------------------------College politics is extremely spiteful and petty, and surprisingly passionate for the people who indulge in it.
The hatred that the liberals Tansy and Norman engender in the straitlaced academic society is very real (even now); if the conservatives had access to black magic, no doubt they would use it any time!
When Norman Saylor discovers that his wife Tansy has been dabbling in witchcraft he demands that she cease all witchy activity and then demands that she remove all of her protective spells placed upon their home.This is a mistake Norman will soon live to regret as his comfortable life begins to unravel.
Now, what with the protections ceasing to exist, the Saylor’s are wide open to dangerous forces that do not wish them well!Initially I found this book very interesting and it pleasantly reminded me of those old black and white creepy movies I used watch during my childhood.
Πριν κάμποσα χρόνια (για την ακρίβεια τον Απρίλιο του 2013) διάβασα ένα άλλο βιβλίο τρόμου/αστικής φαντασίας του Φριτς Λάιμπερ, το πολύ καλό "Η κυρά του σκοταδιού".
Με την πράξη αυτή οι ισορροπίες θα διαταραχτούν...Η γραφή του Λάιμπερ είναι πολύ καλή, ευκολοδιάβαστη και συνάμα με βάθος σε νοήματα και εικόνες, ενώ δεν λείπουν κάποια ενδιαφέροντα πραγματάκια γύρω από την μαγεία και τις ανθρώπινες δεισιδαιμονίες.
Φυσικά το βιβλίο δείχνει έως ένα βαθμό τα εβδομήντα πέντε χρόνια του (άλλες εποχές, άλλες συνήθειες και άλλα ήθη), όμως για την εποχή του ήταν σίγουρα αρκετά πρωτοποριακό και πρωτότυπο, ενώ καταφέρνει να συγκινήσει και τον σύγχρονο αναγνώστη βιβλίων τρόμου/αστικής φαντασίας.
And it's worldwide: all women are witches, and they either know of or practice witchcraft.Here's the gist:One day, feeling good and taking a moment to reflect on his life, Norman Saylor, a professor of sociology at Hempnell College, begins to ponder his successes, one of which he considers his wife, Tansy.
The "coincidences" culminate with the disappearance of his wife.But to rescue Tansy, Norman will have to practice a little conjure magic himself.
Because Conjure Wife is told in a limited third-person narrative, Norman Saylor could make or break the story.
This was a fun novel about a witch.The professor of a small college discovers that his wife is practicing magic.He's disgusted that his wife, superstitious and flighty as she is, would do such a thing and orders her to immediately discontinue her practices.Unfortunately, he does not consider that there could have been benefits associated with her charms.I enjoyed the book very much despite the prejudices against women. Since this book was published in the 50's, I guess that type of thing is par for the course.All in all, I enjoyed the prose, the story and the ending.
This was an interesting and attention holding book, with a strange little "hook". The idea here is that "all women" are really part of a worldwide (seemingly)sorority. They're all witches.A little disturbing for a guy to read....However I liked it quite a lot. It caused me to read Our Lady of Darkness...a more complex book , but with an inferior story I believe. This one is just better "story-telling".I found the story catching me quickly and pulling me along toward the climax. Imaginative and an original idea.
I did a flip-flop on this one, and watched the movie prior to reading the novel, but I can tell you that the movie follows the book pretty closely.
Norman teaches sociology at a small university, more specifically, his work centers on the "parallelisms of primitive superstition and modern neurosis," even coming up with a book about it.
Suddenly things start taking a turn for the worse, but level-headed Norman tries to rationalize every weird occurrence -- until he can no longer afford to do so.Super book, and really, anyone who loves older supernatural novels should read this -- it's still quite relevant, masterfully written, and just downright scary.
I can see where this one would be (and should be) considered a classic. It’s hard to believe it was penned in 1943 as it stands up extremely well. You can see the influence Fritz Leiber has had on many of today’s modern horror authors. Well done. 3.5+ Stars
Before I knew better, I assumed that Fritz Leiber's Conjure Wife was the basis for Rene Clair's film I Married a Witch.
Norman could understand the force that compelled the practitioners of black magic to take any risk.(The paragraph above offers proof that Leiber was both a fan and a correspondent of H.P. Lovecraft.)Conjure Wife is a novel of male anxiety provoked by confrontation with female power, but it does not have the unpleasant panic response of similar tales that become popular a few decades later.
Thank God, things can get back to normal.Saylor learns to respect his wife's power and even to master enough of it to save her life.
For all the men did have a tendency to view their spouses through a skewed lens, not realizing just how much power the women truly had in their lives and over them.
The ideas of male/female relations are probing and insightful in a way that seems a bit subversive.
It's beautifully subtle in the slow building of menace and fear, and the ideas about society seem to be relevant today in how men and women and spouses relate to and view each other.
It makes you wonder just how much witchcraft may be going on behind the scenes today.Overall rating: 4.25/5.0 stars.
Regardless of which genre it's placed in, Conjure Wife is an excellent novel that definitely deserved a re-release.Norman Saylor is a sociology professor at the small — and as far as I can tell, entirely fictional — college of Hempnell.
Saylor, a very rational and cerebral man, attempts to convince Tansy that magic isn't real, but after she destroys all the protective magical artifacts hidden around their house, Saylor's life suddenly takes a turn for the worse: old and new enemies appear, small accidents start to happen, his tenure at the college suddenly is in danger...As this subtly terrifying story progresses, Conjure Wife does an excellent job at contrasting the different personalities of the characters.
This was a fun, fast read with a well written (it is Fritz Leiber after all) and well paced plot that kept me engaged until the very end.
Two things kept me from giving this story a four star rating.
I know it is often hard to have a "realistic" ending in a fantasy/horror novel, but this one strained even my very willing suspension of disbelief.
Those two gripes aside, I did really enjoy the novel and it kept my interest enough that I read it basically cover to cover in one sitting.
Lieber's story of witchcraft at a small university is exciting and claustrophobic, and the black magic believably wrought.
Just take the deeply ingrained gender biases - men are professorial, but utterly hoodwinked, husbands, and women are conniving and conjuring "faculty wives" - with a whole barrel of pre-equal rights salt.
(I once swam in that academic ocean, and the gender ratio has changed a LOT.)Still, it's clear what a major influence Conjure Wife has had within the genre; one could probably have fun following the trail from "Bewitched" to The Croning.
A solid classic of the witchcraft genre, 4 stars.
If you were to find the source of what is now called urban fantasy this tense novel would be it.
Written in 1942, not 1953 as the Goodreads description states, Leiber has written a sly and involving work of horror that uses a modern (for the 1940s) college setting to create a world where all women are witches and the men innocently go on their business thinking they are the masters of their castles.
It may be somewhat dated yet the novel still packs a punch.
A must-read for anyone who thinks of themselves as a aficionado of 20th century horror literature.
Most of the novel is spent with Norman trying to built rational explanations and scientific theories for the irrational, until he is forced to act according to the laws of the occult in order to save his wife from attacks by other witches.One of the characteristics of the occult in the vision of Leiber is that witchcraft is the preserve of the womanfolk, as in every woman is not only capable but actively engaged in the art, handed down from mother to daughter in secrecy or discovered on its own through books and practical experimentation.
Since I was no stranger to Leiber coming into this novel, I think I had a better handle on some of the obsessions and ponderings that he returns to again and again in many of his stories, and so the supposed sexism that prevents some from wholeheartedly appreciating Conjure Wife didn't really strike me as such at all.All right, so yes, the premise is indeed that all the women associated with the college faculty are practising witches, and, by extension, that all women, everywhere, have something of the witch about them, even if they don't necessarily know it themselves or aren't aware that the rituals and routines they engage in are a form of magic.
He is finally convinced that he has helped his wife Tansy mature and that this dabbling in primitive customs is behind them.
It is amusing and sometimes horrifying to watch him rationalize the supernatural events occurring around him.Finally, with his wife's help (who actually would have been MUCH better off without his meddling in the first place) he is able to right what was wrong and get everything back the way it was before he intervened.
When he convinces her to stop, things go wrong, and he begins to wonder whether she might have been right to believe in magic after all.I imagine most people first encounter Fritz Leiber from his Lankhmar series, but many know that he wrote a host of other good books, including Conjure Wife, his first novel.
While in key ways a creature of its time in terms of societal attitudes, it's nonetheless quite good.It's true that the premise, that women practice witchcraft to manipulate others, draws on a tired and harmful stereotype.
Could not put this book down: it's an absolutely enthralling example of 1950s literary attempts to merge science and the paranormal.
Like those books, it also contains fascinating gender politics.
No mere puttering about with ridiculous medieval implements, no effortless slight of hand, but a straining, back-breaking struggle to keep control of forces summoned, of which the objects he manipulated were only the symbols.
Outside the walls of the room, outside the walls of his skull, outside the impalpable energy-walls of his mind, he felt those forces gathering, swelling up, dreadfully expectant, waiting for him to make a false move so that they could crush him.
Norman is married to Tansy.
"She hugged her cuddlingly." Really?
Cuddlingly was necessary?
Stop, Sarah.
Stop.
For a book written by a man in 1943, the women in this novel are fairly well rounded, and hey, there's more than one.
I had to stop reading it at night.I read this as part of the Grandmaster Challenge, Worlds Without End's challenge to read twelve Damon Knight Award winning authors in 2012.
While I didn't finish the challenge, I definitely read some very interesting books because of it, and got to a few authors I'd always meant to read, including Leiber.
This was a quick light read. A witch developing her powers and her husband not liking it one bit. It's rather funny in parts and kind of bland in others.
I blew through this in one night. Why hasn't anyone ever told me to read this dude?
I don't have time to write even a half-decent review, but I end up giving four stars and not five.
The reason is quite simple, and some would say we're talking about a minor technicality here, but there is a time in the story (about halfway in) where the protagonist receives bits, snippets, of information from his wife, via mail...
That's why I give four instead of five stars.Otherwise a splendid tale, and I can appreciate that Leiber is the first (or one of the first) to introduce the witchcraft idea to a more urban, modern setting.
A solid occult type horror book from Leiber. He handles this story quite well, but CONJURE WIFE is not as good as say, DARK SISTER by Graham Joyce, which offers a bit more in this same vein.
From the not-so-subtle foreshadowing of doom:"Oh, it was a wonderful day all right, one of those days when reality becomes a succession of such bright and sharp images that you are afraid that any moment you will poke a hole in the gorgeous screen and glimpse the illimitable, unknown blackness it films; when everything seems so friendly and right that you tremble lest a sudden searing flash of insight reveal to you the massed horror and hate and brutality and ignorance on which life rests."Through the ongoing parallel between the nuclear arms race and magical standoffs:"Is it to be wondered if people grasp at superstition in this rotten, hate-filled, half-doomed world of today?
Perchè se dietro ogni grande uomo c'è una grande donna, questo è perchè lei spende gran parte del suo tempo a proteggere il marito e propiziarne la carriera con rituali, feticci e incantesimi (altro tema caro alla sensibilità americana, quello delle carriere troppo rapide e brillanti per non aver beneficiato di un "aiutino").
Altro punto di forza del romanzo sono le nozioni di cui è infarcito: non si tratta di semplici riempitivi folkloristici o tocchi di pittoresco colore atti a giustificare un racconto dell'orrore, quanto di dati antropologici, tratti distintivi di tutte le culture "primitive", che irrompono in un mondo moderno, scientifico, e soprattutto nell'esistenza di un individuo dominato dalla ragione.
Life is good and orderly for Norman--until the day he sneaks into his wife's dressing room and discovers that Tansy has been dabbling in the ancient arts of witchcraft to advance his career and to protect him from the maleficent influence of fellow practitioners at the college.
But Leiber does an equally fine job of exploring these bigger ideas as well.Nevertheless, you can't discuss this book without addressing the role of gender in the central conflict of the novel.
What a difference the course of decades makes!
I read this book initially as a young child, and was terribly impressed.
(Wherever did I get that concept?:)) Reading it today I saw much more to its layers than merely a superficial Supernatural veneer-although there is of course much Supernatural in it.
(No, I am not suggesting university students are senseless; simply that there is some belief by certain secondary characters in the book-and the protagonist adopts that position temporarily-that the majority of students are not worth the time spent attempting to teach).It's easy to understand now why Fritz Leiber is considered one of the classicists of modern Supernatural horror.
All women are witches.
Not in a bad way!
Tansy Saylor uses her craft to protect and aid her liberal college professor Norman.
When Norman convinces his wife that it's all just superstition, Tansy's enemies move in.I liked parts of this a lot, but there were things that didn't make sense.
Tansy knows her magic is real, so why does she give it up so easily?
When she disappears one morning, how is it possible for Norman to receive a letter from her in the post that same day?
(It doesn't seem to be magic.) Maybe I missed something.
