https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22318578-the-life-changing-magic-of-tidying-up
"We've got to do something about all this stuff we keep bumping into or dusting," I keep saying, "something more than the penny ante efforts we're doing so far."Enter a New York Times feature on THIS book, calling it the greatest thing since sliced sushi:http://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/23/gar..."That does it," I told my wife.
Why am I reading all this filler, this clutter, these words in need of TIDYING up?"That said, I should give the book a star back just for the punch line, "Does it spark joy?" It's what you say when holding some up-for-tossing item in your hand.
Just imagine how you would feel if you were forced to carry a heavy load for hours?"You must empty your hand bag every day."Being packed all the time, even when not in use, must feel something like going to bed with a full stomach." When you get a new phone, it is kind to text your old one with a message of thanks for its service.Every single thing must be in its assigned place before you go to bed." Have you ever thought about what it would be like to have no fixed address?" It is equally important for our possessions to have "that assurance that there is a place for them to return to."If we greet our house properly it will " be happy to tell me what the family no longer needs and where to put the things remaining so that the family can be comfortable and happy in this space." Not sure if you do this before or after applying hands and checking your joy response.
This book did not spark joy. Therefore, I am discarding it.
Do you like talking to furniture? Do you believe shirts have souls? Are you insane? This might be the book for you.
The thing that most stuck me about this book was the immense respect that the author, (who feels like my friend after reading this, a gentle companion through this process), shows to all possessions.
Get rid of it all at once!" Instead she's saying "All of these things came into your life for a reason, take your time considering them, and then thank them and let them go onto the next stage of existence." It's all so kind and loving and made me not feel guilty or fear the process.I also really liked the structure of this book.
The book is short and sweet, and the author is bat-shit crazy. But. Here are two take-aways that will stay with me:If it does not spark joy, throw it out.And: "My basic principle for sorting papers is to throw them all away."Believe me - I have been throwing away (and selling, and donating to Goodwill) with a vengeance for the past few days, and tidying. I refuse to fold my socks though. Folding socks is for people with all the time in the world.
"Personally, I recommend hanging sponges outside, such as on the veranda."Quite possibly the funniest line I have ever read in a book.
Because she is dead serious.Although there were several helpful sections about how to declutter and organize your home, much of this book is ridiculously funny.
I gave it two stars because I do like the idea of getting rid of things that don't bring you joy and I like the idea of stacking things vertically.
And I'm taking Marie Kondo's advice and getting rid of this book.
It most definitely does not spark joy.
Though this book can be a little woo-woo and a little repetitive, I have to give it five stars for the impact it has already had on my life. I love collecting stuff and have a very hard time letting go. The author's techniques allowed me to graciously and gratefully bid adieu to things I no longer love, and I felt *amazing* when I did both my clothing and book purges. (My sister asked if I was high!) I still have much more to do, but I'm trying to do one step a week. HIGHLY recommended.
This book just spoke to me, for whatever reason, although I can see why others might not get much out of it.
No matter what the subject is, I love reading books by people that are truly passionate about the subject matter, and one thing is for sure: Marie Kondo is passionate about tidying.
Despite all of that, this book isn't really about tidying, at its core.
If that last sentence made you roll your eyes, skip this book, but if you like the idea of finding meaning in the things that you own, you'll enjoy this.
For example, after getting rid of all the books that didn't spark joy, one of Marie's clients realized that all of the books she kept were about social work, and that what she truly enjoyed in life was helping others, so she changed her career.
I doubt I will take every piece of advice Marie gives —- for example, she recommends putting all of your clothes on the floor, and then sorting them — but I appreciated the spirit of it.Now I have to decide whether or not to keep this book: Does it spark joy?
I laughed out loud four times reading this book.
Funniest moments include the author bursting into tears when she discovers a smudge of bathroom slime on the bottom of her shampoo bottle and that she believes if you have 80 rolls of toilet paper in your house, you are a hoarder instead of a Coscto member.
This is a woman who has her entire bookshelf in her clothes closet; if I walk into your house and you do not have 200 books laying around that you haven't read yet, I simply don't trust you as a human being.
My best guess is that Marie Kondo targeted the most materialistic generation in the history of humanity, and they've since passed the book on to their equally superficial, spiritually empty, and stuff-obsessed grandchildren, who have made the fucking thing go viral.
Good God. When Americans' capacity for critical thinking has reached the level of blindly adopting all things Marie Kondo/KonMari, we've got bigger problems than "too much stuff." Look.
I was never bothered by the bookcase until I read Kondo's book, but now I can't wait until we can throw the damn thing away.
At this point, I should pick up Marie Kondo's book and ask myself whether it sparks joy.
Her name is Cynthia and she comes every other Thursday morning.
She has no emotional attachment to anything and couldn't care less if my son might object to having something or other thrown away.
Not that he ever remembers when he comes back from college.I bet you with all the money the sales of this book engenders that the author will no longer be cleaning and tidying up her house herself but also get a magic Cynthia of her own.
In fact, I was delighted to discover that my lifetime habits of tidying are roughly in line with Marie Kondo's, the expert's, except for a brilliant bit of advice relative to clothes that I can't wait to try.
Kondo's basic mantra is "keep things that bring you joy; discard everything else," and that is so cool that I'm going to try it, because it goes further than what I had thought, but along the same lines.
Much as I delighted in this book, and appreciate its goals, it seems utopian now after wrestling with the ideas in it for a few weeks.
Talk about some clutter...Anyway, I definitely didn't enjoy this as much as I thought I would.
And I certainly didn't enjoy this as much as The Joy of Less.
I can definitely appreciate the message and the process here, but listening to her talk about how she was in tears as a 5 year old when she couldn't figure out the best way to organize her closet had me like...And don't get me started on the suggested anthropomorphism of my underwear drawer...
Consejos útiles como el de organizar por categorías. Para gente desordenada como yo, es genial. Eso sí, los comentarios machistas son como patadas en mi útero. "Si eres mujer, ponte algo femenino o elegante para dormir. Lo peor que puedes hacer es usar unas mallas desgastadas." "Si las mallas son tu atuendo cotidiano, acabarás por ser como ellas, lo cual no resulta muy atractivo". Actualización: después de hacer todo lo que esta señora decía en pocos días (porque ella así lo recomienda) mi piso
Lo peor que puedes hacer es usar unas mallas desgastadas." "Si las mallas son tu atuendo cotidiano, acabarás por ser como ellas, lo cual no resulta muy atractivo".
Actualización: después de hacer todo lo que esta señora decía en pocos días (porque ella así lo recomienda) mi piso entró en un efecto rebote brutal.
Después de leer un blog, que no sé si conocéis (se llama Orden y Limpieza) entendí todo un poco mejor.
La autora del blog se llama Alicia, es una mujer española experta en organización (ordenar casas, ayudar en mudanzas, rutinas...).
En una entrada, habló de los fallos que ella ve al método de Marie.
I wondered at times if the book was satire or a memoir of OCD disguised as the middle child syndrome.
Poor socks.2) When she goes to someone's house to help "tidy" (organize) she bows in the middle of the room and greets it and also thanks it for allowing her to tidy it up.
Oh, and she wears a dress and blazer when tidying to show respect to the house (not its occupant) and thinks you should too.
No bloated purses for you.3) She claims that tidying rids the body of toxins and that she sees it quite often.
Now I just think the book is a bit kooky.
Repetitive stuff can really get under my skin and there were a few instances when listening to this book that I had to stop myself from throwing my phone out of my moving vehicle.
Don’t ball up your socks or tie your hose together (who does that?) because it hurts their feelings (I’m still not kidding), your supposed to put them together and roll them up like sushi and stand them in shoe boxes.
There was more ridiculousness I’m sure, but I think I blocked it out, or I missed things whilst yelling ‘no no no no’ to block out the ‘tidies’.
As a experiment, I started going through my stuff.
من أفضل الكتب العملية التي يمكن أن تقرأها، خرجت منه بالعديد من المعلومات المفيدة والقيمة يعاب على الكتاب فقط التطويل الزائد عن اللازم والتكرار غير المفيد، كما توجد بعض النصائح التي لا تتناسب مع ثقافاتنا، لكنه كتاب ممتع على أي حال
I have just experienced the life-changing magic of discarding two-thirds of my clothes, shoes, and accessories!
The concept of wearing, using, or keeping only items that "spark joy" makes brilliant sense to me now, and feels like wonderful liberation.I am very excited and inspired by Marie Kondo's work, and I'm equally enthusiastic about continuing throughout the house until we are living a much smaller, less encumbered, joyously infused material existence here in our happy home.
Oh yes, one more life-changing aspect (already): I hated to fold things.
No American book would advise praying to your house before tidying it, for example, or suggest that objects just want to help you and that, once released from your possession, they will continue reflecting their helpful energy back to you from wherever they are.It seems that these suggestions make Kondo unusual even in Japan, but her Shinto-influenced outlook is so much like what my mother raised me with that it was exactly what I needed to work through the guilt that keeps me clinging to objects I don't use or even particularly like.
So I lit some incense, clapped a couple of times, and prayed to my apartment.
I know a secret. If you have too much stuff and it’s bugging you then get rid of it. All of it. Well, nearly all of it. Save a few things but only the things you absolutely love, the things that spark joy within your being (you’ll know it when you feel it, says the author) and don’t bring more things into the house unless you love and/or need them. Don’t think you can do that? Well, never mind then.This author wants you to be absolutely ruthless with your possessions and do it in one fell swoop
Save a few things but only the things you absolutely love, the things that spark joy within your being (you’ll know it when you feel it, says the author) and don’t bring more things into the house unless you love and/or need them.
I pulled off all of the books and starting sorting them but it made me incredibly sad to think about tossing them out of my house where they might potentially end up in a trash/recycle bin (according to the author everything has feelings so how could I allow this?
Notes as i read:Things I like:-the idea of tidying by category-the joy factor -"we should be choosing what we want to keep, not what we want to get rid of."-she's not very judgemental -the sweet Japanese anthropomorphizing of objects-her approach to clothes and thanking the objects for their service -her order and suggestion that tidying needs to be done just once in a big swoop and in a certain order: discard first, figure out where things go after-like the idea of seeing what you need/don't need as an act of vulnerability and strength growing Things that don't jive:-She has no concept of the archive-one problem i have with the method is that there are things i have to own that don't bring me joy...i can't get rid of my interview clothes.
If you use the words "spark joy", "feel happiness" and "reduce anxiety" enough times, people will want to follow your lead and pay you good money for your advice.
3. the ideal situation is to live in a bare, sterile home, and should anyone dare to give you an ornament or any other tangible gift, discard it at the earliest opportunity by saying "thank you, object X, for teaching me that I'm better off without you".
Yeah, you guessed it, this Marie Kondo won't be coming to my house in her frilly dresses any time soon to have that dialogue with my house, clothes and handbags about how hard they work for me.
كتاب جيد أود أن أقدمه كهدية لعدد من الأصدقاء ممن يعانون بالفعل من مشكلة الفوضى في حياتهم
Marie Kondō’s approach to de-cluttering is worth considering, but also challenging, seeing that it involves human beings treating objects with kindness and respect. That is perhaps only possible for people who have achieved or strive to achieve self-actualization.
Doubtless the Kat had an ulterior motive (the office is a stacked up mess) but this book offers more than tips on tidying.The author, Marie Kondo, has made tidying up her life since she was a small child, and shares many anecdotes about her early days as a stealth clutter-control operative in her family home, as well as some of the false starts she had on her way to her tidying method.
I will not steal her thunder by revealing her unorthodox methods, but will say it has already worked a magic on one kitchen that I used to dread entering.
If one has the will, the method works, and she is also right that I have no desire to go back to my old ways in that kitchen.

This book has actually changed my life. I'm now in the middle of category 4 out of 5 of her decluttering/tidying process and honestly y'all i have never felt so good. Thanks KonMari!
America is such a materialistic society and this book is a good reminder to be nice to the things you own and to find value in everything, otherwise it isn't worth keeping.
I don't think i'll be saying to my clothes, "thank you for keeping me warm" like Marie does, but it was a nice nudge to recognize that owning a lot of things is a privilege, and you can pass on any stuff that has already fulfilled its purpose in your life.
