https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1183811.Three_Against_the_Witch_World
Old school fantasy/sci-fi. Wrote my thesis about this book and other Andre Norton's. No feminist protagonist, but strong female characters and even stronger feminist implications.
Book 3 of the first Witch World series and different from the first two, which told the story of Simon Tregarth, who came to Witch World from our world through an interdimensional gateway, and Jaelithe, one of the Witches.
The first books are concerned with how Simon and Jaelithe spearhead the fight against the Kolder, an alien race who came through yet another gateway, and so can be classified as science fantasy, given the amount of technology in the stories as well as the Witch World's psychic witch powers.This book is told from the viewpoint of their oldest son, Kyllan, first of triplets.
This book has as its strength the desire of the triplets to be together as they struggle against both the standard of the Witch World to snatch gifted girls and make them part of the Witch community, and against the growing knowledge that their uniqueness is not limited to the fact that they are triplets.
This is as awesome as the first time I read it in the 80s.
Simon Tregarth was the hero of the first couple of Witch World books. This book features his three children. Pretty good.
An enticing peek into a new segment of Andre Norton's Witchworld universe!
To choose this isolated incident for the cover is not a very good idea--but the presentation makes it even worse.The basic story of the Tregarth triplets is critical to the series, not only because of the later impact of their escape to Escore, but also because of the impact on other people and events.
No later story or volume really deals with this, and it's too late to question the ringleaders--they were probably among the first to die in the 'Turning'.Kemoc is injured fairly early on, and is invalided home, where he takes off to Lormt to try to find a way to reunite the triplets.
Ma io torno a dire: e quindi?La serie in italiano termina qui,per cui non lo saprò mai, ma ho trovato che la storia abbia avuto del potenziale solo nel secondo libro,un po' fantasy e un po' fantascienza, per il resto mi sono annoiata.
Metto la sufficienza solo per le diverse creature che si incontrano in questo terzo libro.Eppure questa scrittrice ha vinto tanti premi...forse non l'ho capita tanto bene io perché mi è sembrata una storia troppo fredda e scontata.
Although disappointing that Norton decided to write Witch World: The Next Generation and leave behind Simon and Jaelithe, it did allow her to take the story in an entirely new direction - literally.
There is a lot of exposition in the book, and descriptions.
Then follows more exposition of what happened in Escore before the old ones went west to Estcarp.
Then a geas on Kyllan to go back to Estcarp, then the geas ended.I suppose the structure of the book was necessitated by the publishing requirements of the day.
And I hope it leads to more plot in the next 2 books of this series relating specifically to the offspring of Jaelithe and Simon.
I say hope, as I cannot recall the plot specifics of the next books, as it has been a long while since I last read them.
Nothing much happened, though, and it just ended in the middle (the sequels pick up the story).This is the first book in the series, but it is the third series in Witch World.
The different series in the Witch World books was rather confusing to me.
To assist others, here are several sites with good information:A suggested reading order:http://www.andre-norton-books.com/arc...Although I'm not sure I'd agree with this.
Publication date order is often the best.I like this site better.
It gives a listing of the books by Cycle order and also lists publication date.
This is the third entry in the Witch World series.
It follows a quest by the triplet offspring of the Simon Tregarth and Jaelithe from the first two books.
When Simon disappears, Jaelithe goes in search of him, leaving the three children on their own.
When the witch society take their daughter Kaththea against the whole family’s wishes, it’s up to her brothers Kyllan and Kemoc to rescue her.
Doing so however means they would incite the wrath of the witches and be traitors to their people.
It’s half a book.Come visit my blog for the full review…http://itstartedwiththehugos.blogspot...
Told from Kyllan's point of view, this is an enjoyable extension of the story of the House of Tregarth, and the journey of the triplets.back cover:Beyond the mind barrier...North, East, South, West...
The offspring of Simon Tregarth, half earthling, half witch-brood, realised that they alone could perceive the four directions - for everyone else, there was no East!
It was a blank in the mind, a blank in legend and history.
And when new menaces threatened, the Tregarths realised that in that mental barrier there lay the key to all their world...
somewhere to the unknown eastward must lie the sorcery that had secretly molded their destinies!
This book read like a fairy tale in a bad way.
I felt distanced from what was going on and all the characters seemed flat.
In fact, it took more than 50 pages for me to realize the main character was a man and not a woman.
I definitely don't feel like this is cookie cutter fantasy.I will read the other two books in the trilogy because I am curious, but not any time soon.
I never got into this book or really liked it while reading it at all.
NORTH, EAST, SOUTH, WEST...  The offspring of Simon Tregarth, half earthling, half witch-brood, realized that they alone could perceive the four directions - for everyone else, there was no East!  It was a blank in the mind, a blank in legend and history. And when new menaces threatened, the Tregarths realized that in that mental barrier there lay the key to all their world... somewhere to the unknown eastward must lie the sorcery that had secretly molded their destinies!
I liked this story of the three Tregarth children, one a warrior, one a sage, and one a witch, and their escape from their own land into one that nobody thought existed. They run for their lives but find an entirely different kind of evil past the mountains of the west where they will need all of their talents and allies in order to survive.
This is an old one of hers and it brings the start of the story of the 3 triplets, children of a witch and a citizen of the 20th century. It shows how they get to a new part of their world and bring about change. Followed by several other stories
1977 grade C-Series book W3
Strano, veramente strano. Un fantasy basato sulla psicologia, piuttosto che sulla spada...
Recommended by Jackie. See:http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/2...Messages #18 & 19.
A rather silly series, but I enjoyed it anyway.
Very weak-plotted, confused, unfinished book. Feels more like a teaser for a series than a self-sufficient novel. Safe to ignore.
niente da fare... non va già.Troppi nomi, luoghi da ricordare e abbinare, forse per il fatto che prima ci sono altri 2 libri...Non mi piace lo stile di scrittura.Lo rimetto in libreria. :(
12
I've been reading and re-reading that book since high school. Always excellent!
