https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313110.This_Bridge_Called_My_Back
It talks about the frustration that women of colour have faced when their concerns and experiences have not been included in traditional feminist theory.I found the book to be very inspirational.
It was actually written over 30 years ago so things have changed quite a bit but some of the concerns remain the same.The main change I have seen is women of colour gaining awareness of themselves, their place in society and their strength.
As Mitsuye Yamada says, "I would like to think that my new awareness is going to make me more visible than ever."Gloria Anzaldua encourages women of colour to write and share their stories and concerns.
because that shit all came from this shit, no matter what all the white queer theorists try to tell you.but seriously.
i've been in academic situations where students think that foucault or paolo friere or judith butler came up with this.
yikes.these are the words that are most at risk of being lost in gender/queer/sexuality academia today, so make sure you are reading it before getting deep into these fields!
make sure your favorite theorists today are quoting moraga and lorde and p.
:P )thankfully, the coolest voices out there in queer theory today are folks writing from a post-colonial queer perspective who are down with this shit.
haven't we treated you well?' revealing that even third of forth generation Asian Americans are expected to act as a guests in the US, just as women of colour are expected to act as guests in feminism.Barbara Cameron is forthright on internalised racism, confessing her negative feelings about Black, Asian Chicano and other groups which have come 'from TV & who knows where' and also racism among Indians about 'half-blood' people for example.
This is a book I will always be reading, when I'm not lending it out. Way fucking radical, this collection of essays from amazing strong women folk explores race, sexuality, language, love, hate and discrimination. The editors, Gloria Anzaldua and Cherrie Moraga, are two of my favorite writers. They put my experience, fears and hopes into words. Ladies of color this ones for you, even if like me you only have some color. This book changed my life. I would also recommend this to white people, but it might scare the shit out of you.
It's sad to say that it's taken me 24 years to deeply connect with a book. This book feels like a war has been waged inside of me. It feels painful, uncomfortable, yet beautiful all at the same time as I realize that with every turn of the page there are more and more women like me. Strong, willfull, feeling. This is the book I've been waiting for.
Even the revised and updated 2002 version is hard to find, but I would encourage everyone to seek out a copy of this book because the strength, fire and passion of the writing is not to be missed. Everything these women write is still pertinent today - about the intersectionality of oppressions, the racism in the white feminist movement, the crucial need for solidarity across race, class, and gender lines . . . . I think this book should be required reading in all women's studies classes.
More than any other I've ever read, this book changed my life.
Edited by Cherríe Moraga and Gloria Anzaldua, this collection of writings by “Radical Women of Color,” cracked open the manicured shell of white feminism, revealing its racist, homophobic underbelly.
Published in 1981, the book challenged white feminists claims to solidarity, putting forth instead a model of feminism that embraced intersectionality and recognized the multiple identities that exist within each woman, and within each community.
No one genre or voice claims authority, but Moraga and Anzaldua form the guiding intelligences and passionate center of the book.
Editado por Cherríe Moraga y Gloria Anzaldua, esta colección escrita por “Mujeres Radicales de Color” rompió la manicurada caparazón del feminismo blanco, revelando sus entrañas racistas y homófobas.
This Bridge Called My Back is, unquestionably, one of the most influential books of my life.
It would be an impossible task to attempt to quantify what I experienced/got/learned from this book.
The analysis and honesty with which this book is written creates an endless source of reflection, lesson and/or connection.
With contributers such as Audre Lorde, Cherríe Moraga, Barbara Smith, and Gloria Anzaldúa, this book offers clear critique, analysis, and illustration to learn from, to be inspired by, and to challenge.
It is consistently named as one of the most influential books of countless people in my life, and continues to influence their lives, art, and organizing.
And that’s the amazing thing about the book -- that the whole thing functions as an extended conversation between radical women of color, and reading it we got to sense, experience, question, gasping in awareness and expression, the way the essays sometimes read like poetry and the poetry like essays and the manifestos like something in between and the editors weave quotes from the essays into their introductions and this all makes it speak both inside and outside the texts and even the parts that are now dated still shine in emotion and commitment, the clumsier pieces illuminate and sometimes the clumsiness becomes part of the analysis, this drive towards clarity that sometimes ends, or sometimes clarity ends this drive.
A great intro to intersectionality: how race, gender, sexuality, immigration status, language, and class interact with each other in the lives of women of color in the US.
The authors repeatedly write about how they could find nothing in contemporary literature on race and gender that spoke to the complexities of oppression and resistance in their lives.
"This Bridge Called My Back" is an important read both for its (still relevant) analysis, and as a primary source critique of second wave feminism that was dominated by the needs and interests of middle class, white heterosexual women.A few really great essays, but the book is best taken as a whole.
Definitely a book worthy of the praise that inspired me to purchase it. At first I struggled with names and references made and inaccurately claimed that Warsan Shire was mentioned when it was another name I was attempting to articulate (feminist fail). I feel more knowledgable and confident after reading the writings of so many wonderful feminists. My favourite section happens to be a poem which I plan to recite to white feminist "allies" who aggressively shun intersectionality. Read this book. xoxo
I'm so happy to have read this book which is a foundation of third wave (read: women of color) feminism. Some of the stories are really dense and full of language that we don't really use anymore, like "Third World feminists," but the poems in particular were quite mesmerizing and profound. This book has been on my to-read list for a while, and I'm glad I finally got around to it.
I read this during my undergrad degree, and remember being deeply impressed. Certainly a key text, and one that remains relevant and insightful. Zanna wrote an excellent review of it in 2014, so go read that...
This book is the single most important book in the feminist canon. Read it now.
Although there were a hand full of pieces that I thought were incredibly well done, and made very important points, I really couldn't get past the fact that there were no (openly) trans women involved.
Basically, this book was originally published in the 80's and at that point in time, all the contributors identified as (cisgender) women.
Not to mention the fact that to continue to sell/advertise the book as for and by women, is to misgender the trans men who have contributed.
To leave them out, but to include trans men, is just truly heart breaking all around, and made this book a major disappointment.
It's a lovely and surreal experience to revisit the kinds of ideas and writers that influenced my conception of radical feminism over the years.
I was able to track my own progress in how I used to think about intersectional feminism and how I am today with regards to my reaction reading these essays.
I don't know what my feminism would be without this book and especially without the work of Cherríe Moraga and Gloria Anzaldúa whose work provided me with one of the most influential frameworks when thinking about the different intersections of feminism.
It's been recommended to me over and over again.On one hand, I am deeply moved by the Native and Latina perspectives here.
"White people." And yeah, it's all white people who shop there for the "Authentic Navajo Hopi Zuni Indian made real live Laguna Santa Ana Santo Domingo artifacts."It makes me laugh, but it also makes me horribly sad.On the other hand, Moraga is a transphobe.Moraga's comments about trans men, about the trans community, about trans identities, about trans bodies are unacceptable.
Moraga spits in my face.
Spits in the face of all trans men, who she misgenders.
Spits in the face of all trans women, latina trans women in particular.
Forget Germaine Greer and Betty Freidan, THIS book along with Sister/Outsider were the books which shaped my feminism. Should be read by those mainstream feminsists who still don't understand why a show like Girls is major FAIL. Oh, and Gloria Steinem needs a copy too, since she thinks that women of color should put gender before race.
Identity politics examined. Womyn of Color from the 1960s and 70s share their perspective on life and the struggle of the movement. Absolutely on of my guides to finding myself and place in the US. It's a book that leads to discoveries and confirmations of self. Must read for any womyn of color.
I haven't read it in years, but I intend to go back to it. It's the 21st century, yet this book is still relevant...because I am still one of the few Black women friends that my White friends have. Seriously? I'm nearly fifty. I'm not angry, but a sister sure is getting tired.
Easily one of the most important books I'll ever read. I found myself having to stop and catch my breath more that a few times.
Un must pero must de que non me dirixas a palabra se non o pretendes ler
You haven't read anything until you have read this,the brave poetry that comes along breaks you apart and pulls you together.
Reading this book felt like a tremendous and unique privilege, knowing that it offered access to some really intimate thoughts, fears, confessions, and hopes of (queer/) women of color that, if we were just sitting face to face, I likely wouldn't have been trusted with as a white man.
No punches were pulled to protect white fragility, but I was also struck by the honesty with which some of them were able to speak to weaknesses or vulnerabilities they saw within the movement of women of color.
This book should be required reading for all American schoolchildren.
Great for those wanting critical feminist theory from the perspectives of those the movement neglects the most.
i can appreciate things, and notice their impact on my life and appreciate that, but i have never felt overwhelmingly changed by a piece of literature until i read this bridge called my back.
when it comes to queer issues and queer history all we get is a whitewashed accounts on how everything started.
no one remembers the Cooper's donut shop riots, or the ones at Dewey's or the Compton cafeteria riots--we are not taught to recognize these events as things that shaped queer history.
when i read this bridge called my back i realized there were women like me even back then.
this book is life changing.
This book made a big impression on me when I was assigned it, during my Women's Studies period.
I kind of assign that same stance to people I come across, without it necessarily being valid.
I also haven't read it all, probably just one or two selections (as assigned)..
or die."The writers in this book come from all over the world.The sections are as follows:Children Passing in the Streets - the Roots of our RadicalismEntering the Lives of Others - Theory in the FleshAnd When You Leave, Take Your Pictures With You - Racism in the Women's MovementBetween The Lines - On Culture, Class and HomophobiaSpeaking in Tongues - The Third World Women WriterEl Mundo Zurdo - The Vision
This is a really important and seminal text in the studies of feminism, racism and homophobia, and it's amazing how so much of it is still relevant today. I'm really glad I've read this book and I think it's a great resource to going about being critical of wider society and also of ourselves. I don't agree with all of it (definitely some transmisogyny and other issues) but I agree with the vast majority of it and I definitely recommend this book, it's shook me to my core.
