https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42435.In_Harm_s_Way
So, eleven hundred men went in the water; 316 men come out and the sharks took the rest, June the 29th, 1945.-- Robert Shaw as "Quint" in JawsThe famous monologue in Jaws, one of the great scenes in all movie history, helped save the USS Indianapolis from the dustbin of history.
Like Sebastian Junger in The Perfect Storm, Stanton admirably intertwines the personal stories of these men with the physiological effects of the ordeal (aside from his description of hypothermia, there is a great passage on dehydration and the disastrous consequences of drinking salt water).
“Very first light, Chief…sharks come cruisin'.” Can you name that movie? Yep, you and everybody else guessed it: the 1975 classic  Jaws.  I’d argue that the majority of those from every generation since the 1970’s to present first learned of the USS Indianapolis and her crew’s fate through this film alone; I did when I first saw it at about six or seven years of age and to be perfectly honest the story scared the living shit out of me cuz unlike the fictional motion picture, it really happened.
In Harm's Way. Even the cover of the current edition of this book resembles some of the long shots of a famous boat in film noir that’s christened after another sea predator of the mammalian variety, thereby linking pop culture with history well.After arriving at Tinian in the Mariana Islands and delivering key components of “Little Boy,” the atomic bomb which would later be assembled and dropped on Hiroshima by the B-29 bomber Enola Gay, the Indianapolis set sail for Guam and then onward to the Philippine Island of Leyte to begin preparations and training for the invasion of Japan.
REALLY!After delivering the last component of the A-bomb, the USS Indianapolis (carrying a crew of almost 1,200) is torpedoed.
Within 12 minutes, an estimated 300 men have been killed, 900 have been forced into the oil-slicked, shark-infested sea, the ship has been sunk, and the first in a long line of oversights will guarantee the US navy is totally unaware of the ships fate until it is too late for more than 2/3 of displaced men.This story, competently told by Doug Stanton, sucked me in, wrenched my heart, and spit me back out a changed person.
In Harm's Way is a shocking and unbelievably powerful true story, revolving around an event in history that shattered the lives of many, but the ones who survived never gave up hope.
The Department of the Navy even brought in the Japanese submarine Captain to testify against Captain McVay. Too bad for them, the Captain testified that zigzagging wouldn't of made a difference in this instance.
Finally, the men were discovered by a US Navy patrol squadron looking for enemy submarines.
The brave men of the USS Indianapolis were in the water for 4 days and I finished the book in three afternoon sittings.
Finally, this book along with a 6th graders history project was used to help exonerate Captain McVay for the loss of the Indianapolis by President Bill Clinton in October of 2000.
True story of the U.S.S. Indianapolis torpedoed and sunk near the end of WWII by a Japanese submarine.
It starts with an ending, then traces the ship’s last journey from San Francisco to Tinian to deliver an important cargo to its final resting place at the bottom of the Philippine Sea. It brings to light the series of miscommunications, misguided naval directives, and errors in judgment that led to the survivors spending an inordinate amount of time awaiting rescue, resulting in unnecessary deaths at sea.
Recommended to those interested in the history of WWII, survival stories, or rectification of injustice.
Instead of a ticker tape parade for the heroes who delivered the bomb that ended the war - sacrificing their ship and most of their lives in the effort - the survivors returned to San Diego months later to a lame welcome party from the local Salvation Army.
Noone, least of all the Navy, wanted to disrupt the feel good vibe of VJ day with a horror story like this.
As one final awful insult, the captain, portrayed by the author and corroborated by every survivor as a truly decent man, was court-martialed by the US Navy for not "zig-zagging" to avoid submarine fire.
Sixty men were taken at once in one feeding frenzy.They mostly attacked at night, then left during the day (but never completely), only to return in force the next night.Stanton, who researched the story of the Indianapolis, talked to survivors (an ever decreasing number) who held a reunion decades later.
Nonetheless, McVay was convicted, and his naval career was more or less dead-ended.Years later, in 1968, haunted by the boys who'd died under his command, and by the occasional hate mail from their families that he still received, he committed suicide.Many details of the Indianapolis's sinking were not declassified until 1959, and some details weren't released to the public until the 1990s.
Security of deciphered codes was so rigid in the Pacific battle plans that neither General MacArthur or Admiral Nimitz informed Captain McVay of Japanese submarines positioned in the retreat path of the USS Indianapolis.
They were 12 degrees from the Equator the temperature was nearly 200 degrees, they were swallowing salt water, vomiting and watching hundreds of sharks circling below them killing at least 60 men per day.
The commander of the Japanese submarine that torpedoed the ship testified at the court case following the war that the American captain could not have prevented the attack.
I’ve long contended that one of the greatest scenes in all of movies entails the bonding that took place in Jaws between Brody, Hooper, and Quint as the latter recounted the horror of awaiting rescue in shark infested waters after the USS Indianapolis had been sunk in the South Pacific just days before the end of the second World War. Spielberg’s ability to ratchet tension was a product of our understanding that the account was based on a true event as well as the inherent fear we all have of sharks circling beneath and around us in open water.
I would guess that many people only know the story of the USS Indianapolis from the movie 'Jaws' and the story that Quint told in the one scene.
This is a story from history that should be known by all Americans.
I had read about and seen television programs about the Indianapolis but I learned a lot more about it than ever before.
Doug Stanton did an excellent job of getting the story from the survivors themselves.
Of the approximately 1,200 men who were on the Indianapolis when it was torpedoed, approximately 300 died immediately from the explosions and 900 went into the ocean.
The attack is so effective that the bow literally vaporizes and because they are running "yoke-modified," or most of the hatches dogged open because the crew is roasting in the tropical heat, water rushes into the hull and the ship sinks in twelve minutes (it took the Titanic two hours and 40 minutes from the time it hit the iceberg, just as a comparison, and it didn't even have water-tight compartments).
Captain McVay was at minimum negligent here.I have a little experience on ships at sea and the crews are continually training.
I think that's a record for a 250+ page book.Valid criticisms of this book might include that it reads a bit like death porn, knowing as we do the ending, but those criticisms would have missed the boat (or ship, as it were).
As Stanton himself explains in an afterword, his ultimate goal in writing this story was to explore the survivors: their ordeal, their suffering, their lives post-Indianapolis.
I know Stanton must have heard the latter and I'm surprised at the lack of it in the book.Regardless, it is beautifully written and for that alone it is worth reading.
I am haunted by what the men on this ship experienced; and how senseless their misery was, waiting for rescue.
A series of mistakes caused this ship to be "lost", meaning nobody missed it after it sunk.
Reading about how some took leadership roles, and so many would not give up.
The Navy held Captain McVay responsible for the sinking of this ship, which was extremely unjust.
This was a fascinating read and it will stay with me.
I can only hope to have the courage these men had if put in a similar situation.
This book starts off with a bang and the story goes from there.
I had never heard of the USS Indianapolis and so this was a great story for me to read.
It played an important role in the war and also revealed a lot about our Navy operations.
It was sad for me to see someone so devoted to serving our country being thrown under the bus after surviving such a horrible accident so that the Navy would not appear to be culpable for the loss of life.

Well researched and well-written account of the unimaginable ordeal suffered by the crew of the cruiser that delivered the components for the Hiroshima bomb. 5 out of every 6 men on the ship died, most while floating in the Philippine Sea for five days and five nights with the sharks. The court-martialed captain was vindicated decades after his suicide. Great read for any fans of the Navy in WWII.
Real life thriller. Great read...unless you're on a cruise.
At some point, too, he discloses the fact that McVay was courtmartialed - as Stanton states, he was "the first captain in the history of the U.S. Navy to be court-martialed subsequent to losing his ship in an act of war." So readers can easily sort through the idiocracy that led to the sinking and subsequent hammer of the Navy being dropped.
In short, Stanton clearly provided enough information to sway the average reader to rally in protest of McVay. I'm curious as to whether or not his book had any effect on the overturning of the courtmartial, which happened just before publication.
Eleven hundred men went into the water.
Didn't see the first shark for about a half an hour.
You know the thing about a shark, he's got...
Y'know by the end of that first dawn, lost a hundred men!
I don't know how many sharks, maybe a thousand!
I don't know how many men, they averaged six an hour.
Bobbed up and down in the water, just like a kinda top.
So, eleven hundred men went in the water, three hundred and sixteen men come out, the sharks took the rest, June the 29, 1945.
There is a point just over halfway through In Harm's Way where author Doug Stanton struggles with the semantics of describing a World War II naval disaster.
Stanton writes, "By late afternoon, things had mutated from horrific to unbearable." Being an English Major, I balked at this word choice.
But the issue still stands.The story of the USS Indianapolis is so very horrific, even a good author like Stanton risks running out of macabre word choices while the story is only at its midpoint.
Yet it does not completely capture, as even Stanton struggles to in a full-length book, the sheer horror of this naval disaster.
Anyone who has seen the original Jaws movie will probably remember the story told by the character, Quint, about the USS Indianapolis.
On the night of July 29th, 1945, the USS Indianapolis, returning from a secret mission to deliver the Hiroshima atomic bomb, was torpedoed by a Japanese submarine and sunk within minutes.
By the time they were rescued, only a little more than 300 of the original 900 had survived.
Upon rescue, the Navy decided to court-martial survivor, Captain McVay. In an amazing turn, the Navy summoned Japanese Commander Hashimoto to testify about the incident.
While speaking with one of the men, he mentioned he was a survivor of the Indianapolis.
He brings to life each of the men who had a significant role aboard the Indianapolis in such a way that you grieve with them through their losses, rejoice with them in their victories, and inwardly "pray" for their endurance and survival.Stanton begins their story in a way I think was very risky.
This beginning hangs like a cloud over the rest of the account, and it becomes doubly tragic once the author has given his readers all the facts that preceded this terrible ending, shockingly revealed in the first chapter of the story of the Indianapolis and its loss.
The story details the horrific conditions the "boys" endured while in the oil slick waters for nearly five days awaiting rescue.(view spoiler)[ Suffering from dehydration, physical and mental exhaustion, hypothermia, fighting off shark attacks, and having hallucinations as well as the pain from burns and broken limbs, it is amazing even 317 of the 900 in the water survived..The Navy's negligence of not following up on the whereabouts of the Indianapolis and delaying rescue efforts until it was too late for many of the crew is unbelievable.
(hide spoiler)]Author's final note: "We rely on the living to tell the story, but not without remembering the boys who didn't survive".
Like most I assume, I was inclined to read this based on Quint's monologue from Jaws (and even though many of his facts were totally wrong, I find that bit no less entertaining).
It's just about as bad a situation as you can imagine.
When the crew abandoned ship, in most cases they swallowed a bunch of seawater and oil and spent several hours vomiting it up.
That was the least bad thing that happened to them.
That's all assuming you weren't one of the crew members blown to hell by a torpedo initially.
And don't ever complain that you had a bad day at work.
While Quint's numbers may have been different, the description held: 1,196 men went into the water, 321 came out; sharks got the rest.
In Harm's Way gives the back story and the epilogue, the lives of the men who went onto the ship, their mission, the mistakes that led to delays in looking for them, the court martial that followed, and more.I read it with my mouth open in amazement and my shoulders aching with tension.
Stanton's writing is just right - crisp description, tone that conveys the emotions of those he writes about, pacing that winds you up and leaves you exhausted but unable to rest as survivors are hauled from the sea and then subjected to Naval bureaucracy.
In Harm’s Way is a very vivid and detailed telling of the fate of the USS Indianapolis, which was torpedoed by the Japanese in the deepest part of the Pacific Ocean, leaving the survivors stranded and drifting on the sea for days.
The homecoming of the survivors was marred by the court-martial of their Captain in what the author portrays as a real miscarriage of justice; furthermore, the announcement of the end of the war just two weeks after they were rescued sidelined the survivors’ tragic story.
Thank heavens this story has been brought to full light after all these years, Historically, everyone should know what happened to the men aboard the USS Indianapolis on July 20, 1945.
Most of us have probably heard of the U.S.S. Indianapolis because of the movie Jaws.
Unfortunately the movie got it wrong, at least about the reason the Indianapolis wasn't initially reported missing.
They were delivering part of the atomic bomb but it was through a series of tragic mistakes that the ship wasn't really noted as overdue.
From the improper decoding of a message, withholding top secret information on possible Japanese sub activity, the Indianapolis being rushed out of repairs from a previous kamikaze attack to Navy protocols and practices in reference to the listing of ship arrivals.9/10
Remember the scene in "Jaws" where Quince tells Brody and Richard Dryfus about his experience in the Navy when his destroyer was sunk in the Pacific and the crew was hunted by sharks for 2 days before rescue? This is the book about that ship and crew. It is extremely terrifying, especially since it is a true story. The crew's encounter with sharks is only about 40% of their dangers as they cling to life waiting for help. Great book.
Astounding account of a truly horrifying experience. I agree with Stephen Ambrose in that it's probably the scariest book I have ever read and probably will ever read. And not for the reasons one might imagine. It's the horrific things that can occur when humans are placed into the most trying of circumstances. I'm really at a loss to describe this book, but insist that everyone should read it.
