https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767171.The_Rise_and_Fall_of_the_Third_Reich
The "Thousand Year Reich" only lasted a total of 12 years, 4 months, and 8 days, but during that brief span it wrought havoc and destruction on scale never witnessed before or since.William Shirer was a journalist, *not* a historian, but his narrative style coupled with the fact that he lived in Germany during the majority of the time Hitler was in power lends this book both readability and a level of believability that no historian could possibly achieve.
Because of Shirer's proximity and access to the majors players of the Third Reich and certainly because war was exploding all around him, the book has an immediacy and intimacy that sets it apart from a traditional historical examination of events.
The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich is thick with military history - this is a book about war.
But this book, after its introduction to Hitler and his early life, uses the major events, invasions and battles of World War II to show the creation of an empire.
From the September 1938 Sudetenland grab and the failings of Neville Chamberlain, to the horrid crimes that went on behind the lines, to the final days that saw a once proud Europe reduced to rubble, Shirer also details World War II from the Nazi perspective.Like Milton’s Paradise Lost and Shakespeare’s Richard III, the central figure in this epic tragedy, the most intriguing character, is a villain.
Perhaps Shirer’s most compelling observation, though, is his uncompromising portrait of the German people who allowed the monstrosity of National Socialism to come to power and to become accomplices with the Nazis in horrors on a scale previously unimagined.
In those twelve, the Fuehrer managed to create hell on earth for the people whom he ruled over as well as in those areas which he conquered; the war he initiated managed to destroy 50 to 80 million people all over the world.I am not going to summarise the book here- the story is well known to most, and anyway to do that would mean writing a small book itself!
Shirer, being privy to most of the secret correspondence in the Reich archives, the majority of which survived destruction at the hands of the Nazis by a quirk of fate, puts his journalistic skills to excellent use as he tells the story of the meteoric rise and even faster demise of Hitler with consummate storytelling skill.
The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany, William L.
Shirer The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich: A History of Nazi Germany is a book by William L.
It was first published in 1960, by Simon & Schuster in the United States, where it won a National Book Award.
This was the first, really serious grownup book I ever read.My sole brother being almost eight years younger and no cousins being in the States, I was virtually an only child, condemned to the weekly dinner parties of my parents and paternal grandparents and their friends, most of them held elsewhere than our own home.
I recall, days later, now on my sun-warmed bed downstairs at grandmother's cottage in Michigan, reading with fascinated horror about the death camps and the "scientific experiments" conducted in them.Now a thirteen year old friend of mine has picked up Shirer, buying it in hardcover himself at a local used bookstore.
I do not think there are any medical experiment "deniers" : of course, medical experimentation on human beings is in no way something unique to the Hitler dictatorship, but Shirer is right to highlight it as a particularly pernicious abuse of power by politicians and doctors, one which should serve as a reminder to us, if we really need a reminder, of the arrogance and ever lethal potential of the notions of so many representatives of both.
I went into this believing I had a well-grounded understanding of Prussian history and a basis of the Hitler regime.
Ummm this book is everything I don't know.I feel way over my head.
An impressive collection of memories and experience, we should feel so privileged to have this thorough documentation of one of the most horrific eras in modern history to remind us how easily a society can fall prey to manipulation when it believes all hope is lost and all value is expended.I was startled to find that the experiments discussed in a previous read, Doctors in Hell, were spot on.
Listened to as an Audible audiobook.A very detailed history of the entity of the Third Reich. It is not a biography of Hitler or a war history, but a comprehensive study of the entire organization. Shirer was witness to many events as a reporter and uses original source material. The resistance to the Third Reich is also covered in great detail along with the many deeply disturbing aspects of the concentration camps. A definitive history of on of mankind's greatest evils.
The detail with which this book deals with the Third Reich and the unspeakable evil that was Hitler's Germany is almost too much to take.
Some of the discriptions, particularly towards the end of 'medical' experimentation, are simply too shocking and too challenging to read in one sitting.
If you need to be reminded of just how evil the bastards in charge of Germany in the 30s and 40s really were then this is the book you need to read.
Like I said, the detail is mind-blowing - the story of this period of history still seems incomprehensible.
I dare you not to be horrified by this remarkable book
William Shirer has penned the definitive account of this horrendous time in world history and I believe it is the most comprehensive and compelling telling ever published.
I did read Richard Evans' trilogy but I still view Shirer's book as better.
I thought that Evans speculated too much and also focused more on Germany itself rather than giving a more expanded view of the entire world stage during this time.
The book ends with Germany's ultimate defeat and The Nuremberg Trials where many of the top Nazi leadership were tried and sentenced for war crimes.
It's not an easy read, but a necessary one I believe.
Since then I have gone through several books on World War II – Churchill’s great memoirs volumes, Toland and Fest biographies of Hitler, books on the Nuremberg trials…So I thought that Shirer’s book would be a simple re-hash – it wasn’t.If I were to be asked to recommend only one book on Nazi Germany this would be it.
Shirer quotes Chamberlain’s honest and touching ‘declaration of war’ speech when Poland is brutally invaded by Germany –quite possibly one of the most poignant passages in the book as the world is now stepping over the precipice into war.Shirer uses many of Hitler’s speeches to illustrate how the German people adored their beloved leader.
Beginners have to start at the beginning, and this is pretty much it, so far as most people are concerned.Shirer was working primarily off the masses of documents collected for the Nuremberg trials, which contained much important material, but had not been properly indexed or sorted, so to a large degree he looked for things he was already familiar with, “where the light was better,” as it were and missed anything that would have problematized his account.
It can be used to explain anything or everything, since these posited cultural qualities are vague and unobservable.In any case wider historical analysis plays a very small part in this book, which is mainly a record of the decisions and actions of the leading men of the Nazi regime.
Shirer is mainly concerned with charting the rise to power of these ruthless men: how they outsmarted the Weimar Republic leaders, fooled the international community, bullied and threatened their way to conquests, and finally instigated a war that resulted in their own ruin.The balance of the book is tilted heavily towards the rise of the Third Reich.
(The down side of the Kindle version is that the it is horrible at handling footnotes, and this book has many that are important to the story.)This is a strange and unique book not only because Mr. Shirer lived in Germany for more half of the Third Reich (or Reich 3.0 as we call it in Silicon Valley) but also because he had access to a massive amount of top secret documents that were captured after the war.
So if you found that whole plot line in Star Wars about how Senator Palpatine became the Emperor, then you should probably skip directly to the second half when Germany invades Poland.Personally I found it fascinating the way Hitler played England and France like chumps and annexed more and more land.
Thus, rather than a "history" of Nazism, this should probably be described as a "chronicle" of Nazism- the lack of accompanying maps is really frustrating at times.
This is especially relevant when describing particular military events such as the invasion of Norway and of Belgium/Holland/France, where, without the support of an accompanying map, it is close to impossible to gain a real appreciation of the developments of the war.Overall, however, it is an interesting book recommended to whoever is interested in this period.
It might not be the most rewarding book for readers interested in deep historical analysis, but it provides a very interesting, vivid account of this period.
It seems like general knowledge about this subject is kept to the antisemitic atrocities, and stories tend to focus on concentration camps, military conflict, or underground movements and hiding.
If there is any contextual knowledge known it is probably just remembered from highschool that the German people were down and Hitler promised to lift them up.The book really gets into the socio-historical and upper level political action that led to the regime, its process, and collapse.
Shirer both narrates the historical facts and progress of events and, when relevant, he discusses particular topics (e.g. Philosophical roots, the church in Germany, resistance movements, assassination plots, etc.).I'm no historian, but this is a worthy read, and I've seen no fault in it.
Believe it or not, I have read this massive book twice. Shirer, who spent much of the years leading up to WWII in Germany, fills in all the blanks and tells a tale of a country spiraling into madness and the ultimate failure of the "1,000 Year Reich". Suffice it to say, this is probably the finest book ever written on the history of Nazi Germany and is a "must read" for all history lovers. "Berlin Diary" also by Shirer is a good preface to this book. Magnificent!!!!
They may not enjoy it, but, by G-d, you are not a real reader until you slam that back cover onto that tome of pain and frustration.I finally finished my grail: the 1500+ page The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich by William L.
There were times during my reading that the leadership of the Third Reich reminded me of nothing more than one of those coming of age sports films where a strong, yet flawed leader tries to mold a championship-winning team out of a bunch of sad sack losers.
DNF @ 35%This is clearly very well researched and if you want a definitive book on Nazi Germany this is it.
It doesn't work for me, I think mainly because through high school and college we learned so much about WWII and in particular Hitler, the Nazis, the Holocaust, and the European side of the war.
Most WWII historical fiction I've read looks at the war and even the Holocaust, but it all does so through different lenses and even when it all focuses on the same event/s, that different lens teaches me something I didn't know prior to picking up that particular book.
و هكذا بدأ من ميونيخ نشاط الحزب النازي الوليد.هنا توقف الكاتب ليعرض الأصول التاريخية و الفكرية للرايخ الثالث، فنجاح هتلر فيما سعى إليه لم يكن ليحدث لو لم تكن هناك تربة صالحة للتأسيس في لا وعي الشعب الألماني تتقبل الأفكار القومية و فكرة السوبرمان و نقاء العرق الآري، هذا بالإضافة إلى الظروف المحيطة من هزيمة عسكرية و وضع إقتصادي مترد و فوضى سياسية حتى لو كانت في ظل حكومة ديمقراطية خرجت بدستور ديمقراطي ليبرالي لم تشهد ألمانيا له مثيلاً من قبل، لكن قدر لهذه التجربة أن تحمل أوزار و أخطاء و اللوم عن كل نتائج الحرب.بعد محاولته الفاشلة للإنقلاب في ميونيخ فيما عُرف بإنقلاب مشرب البيرة و التي أدت لسجنه فترة رمزية أملى فيها كتابه (كفاحي) آمن هتلر أنه لكي يصل للسلطة لابد أن يحصل على دعم و تأييد و تعاطف بعض أركان السلطة نفسها.

It is however a seminal work charting the background and rise of Hitler and the early Nazi party that he formed, defined and ruthlessly controlled absolutely.
The early parts of the book describing Hitler and his rise through to the outbreak of the War and hugely impressive if highly subjective at points.
Better books have and will be published about the rise and fall of Hitler and the Nazi party, but few will have the firsthand authenticity of this work.
An important book to read, if ultimately a far from authoritative account of such a massive topic.
“Some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens.”-A Storm of Swords, George R.R. Martinপরদার সামনের আর পরদার পেছনের যুদধের মধযে পেছনেরটাকেই আমার সব সময় বেশি গুরুতবপূরণ বলে মনে হয়। যদিও সামনের যুদধের কথাই আমরা সরবতর ফলাও করে পরচারিত হতে দেখি, ইতিহাসের পাতায় সামনের যুদধের নায়ক (অথবা খলনায়ক)দের কীরতি অমর হয়ে থাকতে দেখি। আর অনযদিকে পরদার পেছনের যে যুদধ, তার যে নায়ক বা খলনায়ক, তার কথা অনেককষেতরেই থেকে যায় লোকচকষুর আড়ালে। অথচ সতয হচছে এই, সমমুখ যুদধে যেখানেঅসীম শকতিধর সেনাব

Shirer spent a long time searching through the declassified dossiers and military reports that had been kept in American custody since the end of the war; such was the book's genesis.
But he was already acquainted with Nazism: his experience was a first-hand knowledge of a country and an era (Germany during the Weimar years and then the Nazi insane government) in which he had found himself living as a journalist, more precisely as correspondent for political affairs.
The last chapters are equally good; the fall of National Socialism and, tragically, of a whole population that, once again, had deluded itself - paving the way for its evil messiah of doom.A LONG read that I definitely recommend.
Shirer's classic examination of the Nazi era from its roots in the end of World War I to its (governmental) demise at the end of World War II is simply one of the great works of history.
Though I have been a fascinated student of the Second World War and its triggering factors, never before have I felt so completely clear about the progression of events and the force of individual personalities in the creation of the most horrific period of European history.
Anyone who is interested in how a nation rose to power while losing its soul, or in how it might so easily happen again, would be well advised to start, or augment, their education with this masterful work.
William Shirer’s book is an outstanding history of Adolph Hitler and the 11 year life of the Third Reich.
Shirer’s stage setting almost made me put the book down.Hitler’s rise to power and the build up to the outbreak of WWII was very complex and unbelievable.
Likewise, Hitler had made treaties with every country including Poland prior to invading.
Hitler justified the invasion of Poland by having the SS dress up in Polish uniforms and take over a German radio station located on the boarder and broadcast in Polish.
The great strength of this book is that it was written by a journalist.
Best of all in a couple of places at least he draws upon his own experiences (for example a conversation with a General during the re-militarisation of the Rhineland and seeing German troops and English prisoners of war during the invasion of France in 1940 (Shirer had been a journalist based in France from 1925 and in Germany from 1934).Equally the great weakness of this book is that it was written by a journalist.
My first thought at the book's end was, "I finished it!" My second thought was, "I'm not so sure I'm glad I read this." As the saying goes, ignorance is bliss.
My summer spent reading this book held a dark cloud over me, which has yet to be lifted.
I've spent many evenings in tears over the utter cruelty of the Third Reich.Shirer, a noted journalist, makes it clear he is not a historian.
I find Shirer an engaging writer despite the challenging material covered in this book.This is not for the faint of heart.
My advice: read this one slowly and know when to take breaks to clear your mind.
[image error]No matter how many times I encounter Hitler's ascendency, I still cannot help but ask - 'how could it have happened'. These events, regardless of which author you prefer to tell them, are the scariest of Hallowe'en fodder. Taking a break now for some fun, the first of 7 x 8 hour audio tracks is enough for one go."Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it" - George SantayanaTaken a year of dipping in and out but now I'm done. Epic!
