https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267115.Now_in_November
She is ten, when her father loses his Job in the lumberyard and takes up tenant farming, land for which he takes on a ten year mortgage.
Marget loves the land, her descriptions of the beauty, the changing season are wonderful, expressive.
It is told in a linear and consecutive manner which I felt both heightened the impact and my understanding of how these hardworking people were effected by the economy and nature itself.This book was published in the thirties, people still reeling from the depression and it was very well received.
Nature is indifferent and neither is there a benevolent God at work: when the Haldmarnes go to church, they are refused communion as non-members.Marget skips around in time to pinpoint the central moments of their struggle, her often fragmentary thoughts joined by ellipses – a style that seemed to me ahead of its time:if anything could fortify me against whatever was to come […] it would have to be the small and eternal things – the whip-poor-wills’ long liquid howling near the cave… the shape of young mules against the ridge, moving lighter than bucks across the pasture… things like the chorus of cicadas, and the ponds stained red in evenings.Michael Schmidt, the critic who selected the first eight Apollo books, likens Now in November to the work of two very different female writers: Marilynne Robinson and Emily Brontë.
Johnson tells the grinding story of a year (and more) in the life of a farming family during the Dust Bowl.
The remote, masculine beauty of the man she can't have serves as the maddening personification of imagined bounty from a farm, and from a life, that never quite comes to fruition.I deeply appreciated Johnson's skill as a writer and even more so for the fact that she created this insightful telling, populated by honest, recognizable characters and glorious, lyrical descriptions, all before she reached the age of twenty-five.

I know I'm always searching for novels like this with characters that are as deeply committed to the land as they are to investigating the heft of their hearts.Marget, Merle and Kerrin three sisters so unlike each other, with very individual hungers and yet all tied to a fierce, desperate existence on a farm that betrays them into poverty.
I could have been fooled into thinking I was reading Carson McCullers, there is that same lonely introspection, poetic sensibility and willed-to-secrecy-love.'There must be some reason, I thought, why we should go on year after year, with this lump of debt, scrailing earth down to stone, giving so much and with no return.
I would have never read or even heard of this book if it wasn't for an English assignment I had to do on Pulitzer Prize winners.
This was a truly breathtaking experience for me.
I have many quotes from the book pinned up in my room from when I did my assignment.
Reading the book was a journey.
If you really read and feel the book, that is.
I was given memories and an experience that weren't truly mine.
I want to taste the experience once more, and hopefully get so much more out of my already great first time reading it.
Tension pulled to the tautest line.
Poignant and incredible experience of teenager angst and in some cases misery.
But the drought escalates the entire to a pitch.
It deserves 4 stars, but I can't round it up.
It was not an easy book to read and the depth of the characterizations so profound that the reading, at times, became painful.
I picked it up and down, changed books several times.
This family held some 5 or 6 different brands of misery.
Especially when the most normal in tone who she loved, left.This is masterful for a dust bowl Nebraska experience.
Terrible, terrible time.
A SOLID piece of work- Heavy too though.I loved the sincere and honest voice of the narrator just trying to make it through the (not so) good old days.
(One of the characters is even named “Willa,”--probably a nod toward Cather who was clearly an influence on the author.) While the writing in Now in November isn’t nearly as strong as any of those great three, it’s still worth a read.
I don’t know what it was—only health perhaps, too much to be contained inside and radiating out like her over-stoked ovens….The smell of boiling cherries was sweet enough, with a good acid tang, but I kept thinking of how the sugar was getting down and wished that Merle would put less in and see if they’d keep that way.
This is not to say that Now in November is not true to history.
In fact, the stoicism expressed by my grandparents while describing their experiences may point out why Now in November is so important to history.My grandparents survived and lived through this period under the protection of their parents.
If their responses to my questions were casual, then those responses serve to show how benign history can become over time and how obscured history can be in the moment.Now in November is straight-up realism.
There is no way for the history depicted in this book to diminish over time and the history it depicts is true to life.
In fact, TGoW is my all time favorite book and yet I still think that Johnson did a better job of telling the story of the Great Depression.Now in November won the Pulitzer in 1935, 5 years before The Grapes of Wrath won it.
People starve to death.
People are evicted from their land.
People die choking on the clouds of dust.
I found myself reading this book much more slowly than I normally do, as I wanted to give the words time to drip down and seep in.
In summation : This book should be required reading in every American high school.
Now in November is one of the most beautifully written books I've ever read. So poignant it hurts. The story starts sweetly enough, but this Pulitzer Prize winner (Josephine Winslow Johnson's first novel, by the way) packs a punch, like a John Steinbeck meets Willa Cather beautiful tragedy. However, the writing is so layered and lovely that you don't mind being wrecked, you welcome it.
Rating it 4 stars, but this could easily be 5 stars.
Yes it is 5 stars, I'm going back and changing it.This book starts easily enough, and continues so for at least one-third of the book.
It is told in the first person by the middle daughter, Marget Haldmarne.Now in November I can see our years as a whole.
It has been a long year, longer and more full of meaning than all those ten years that went before it.One cannot help but appreciate the wonder of nature and yearn to live simply with it.
Sometimes I wonder at being so naive!
The one made up of things done day after day with comfort and soberness, hard sometimes but solid - things you could lay your hands on and feel that they were there: the saucepans and heavy dishes, the thick cups and the five beds to be made - things without any more mystery than the noon sun had.
[...] The moment of self-searching, of standing under the oaks at night and asking What?
and the moment of feeling the self gone, lost or never existent.
It's like the more beautiful and secretly harder hitting sister to the Grapes of Wrath.
The narrator is one of three sisters in a family struggling to survive and outlive their farm mortgage.
The book builds to a climax of ultimate loss and the denouement offers only the steadiness and determination that this tough life must still be borne.
All of the descriptions written on the book cover use the term poetic because there is no mistaking the masterful and lyrical quality of the prose.
But it is not enigmatic like poetry.
I can understand that this first novel won a Pulitzer in 1935. The author used hauntingly descriptive language to tell the story of a hard-luck farming family struggling through a year of drought and troubles. But even lovely words couldn't bring any hope for me as I also struggled to stick with this book. It's probably better than OK; some readers may find it a blessing or revelation. For me, it's a depressing Depression book and not much more.
The writing is very lyrical and pretty, and the scene where Merle and Marget run off into the woods when their father is angry at Kerrin is one of the most beautiful passages I’ve ever read in a novel before.I like how it shows what individuals felt during the Great Depression.
I’m not about to go insane and try to kill people, but I do know what it’s like to do your damnedest to impress your father (or anyone else) and keep getting shot down.
If you like reading about the Great Depression.
It’s a pretty depressing book, but I like depressing books.
A very moving and elegant novel in the style of Willa Cather and, later, James Agee.
Although it seems to be a rather grim tale, the writing itself seems to minimize the desperation of the story by its simple beauty and elegance.
If you are a reader who needs an active plot, with twists and turns, this book is not for you.
If you are someone who likes the internal development of characters and very visual descriptions of scenery, all done at a casual, if even slow, pace, you will appreciate this book.
Distinctly-styled and introspective, this Depression-era novel tells the story of a Dust Bowl family facing hunger, poverty and a world bereft of ease.
Some of the passages in this book are so lovely I doubled back to read them again.
And then once more.Josephine Winslow Johnson won the Pulitzer Prize for this, her first novel.
Although a difficult book if one reads simply for plot or suspense, the poetry of the language and specificity of the characterizations make Now in November well worth the effort.
It depicts a family struggling to get by on their farm in the early years of the Great Depression, through the eyes of the middle of three daughters.And it's a pretty good book: well written, and with some strong characterization, particularly of the two sisters and the neighbor who comes to live with the family as hired help.
I can see how some people might connect powerfully with this book, but it never quite inspired that reaction in me.
Still, worth a try if you come across a copy.
This book reads like the author has just taken a writing class.
Occasionally the story telling starts to get interesting and then she swoops off into purple prose.
I can only imagine the Pulizer committee were impressed by her youth and the closeness of the subject matter.I think I imagined it would like Little House on the Prairie for adults but there was little description or understanding of the privation surely suffered by a family reduced to dirt poor farmers.
Then I found that the author was from a wealthy family and realised why her writing lacked conviction.
What a depressing book! Well-written, and the author's style is distinctive and poetic - I understand how this was awarded a Pulitzer Prize. But maybe because I've heard stories about the depression and the drought years from my parents and grandparents, this was tough to read. The years of dashed hopes and stoicism was heart-wrenching, and the tough life could have been stories I heard in my childhood that seemed too exaggerated at the time. I'm glad I read it - but I'm going to pick up a chick lit brain candy book next!
This little-known, Pulitzer-winning novel follows a family scratching out a meager existence during the Depression. Though less intense and epic than The Grapes of Wrath, this novel nonetheless depicts the family struggles with clarity and precision that help the reader feel the desperation, the fear, the hunger, and the waning hope.
A beautifully written story of the Great Depression. The families in this story never gave up hope as their crops failed and they suffered through many trials and tribulations. It is beautifully written.
This was written like a high school student who thinks they they can write. Couldn't even finish it.
Liked it.
Grim. Just ... Grim. Nothing much happened. Following The Grapes of Wrath wouldn't be easy but this was such a weak book in comparison.
It was ok, but very disjointed. I had a hard time following the book.
Worst of the 60+ Pulitzer Winners I've read so far. Not much of this story held my interest or made me want to keep reading.
4.5 stars // vale la pena leggerlo anche solo per il meraviglioso stile narrativo dell'autrice
