https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/573003.How_Children_Learn
tl;dr: Teachers, parents, and students might like to read How Children Learn and think about it, or even use it to jump-start a discussion with their peers.***Because I'm a college math professor, How Children Learn is a hard book for me to deal with.Today, I spent the day grading final exams.
Finally, they have typically been students for three quarters of their lives: they have developed strongly fixed patterns of behavior which they use in reaction to new intellectual challenges, surely including some behaviors that are specific to mathematics classes.More to the point, I think Holt is writing about systemic reform: minimally, one school at a time.
Holt points out that children yearn to do real things with real facts now (see page 288).
We changed our approach after reading Holt’s view of “answer pulling” where “the teacher asks a series of pointed questions, aimed at getting students to give an answer that he has decided beforehand is right.
Rather than asking our son pointed questions, we began to merely open a discussion where each of us shared, among other things, what we found most interesting and most important about each segment of history.
Equally important, our son began to feel better about his contributions in our discussions and more positive about his learning.
Although John Holt is best known as a "founding father" of the homeschool movement, this remarkable book is a simple but profound collection of his observations about how children learn.
Most of all, Holt believes that children learn best when they learn at their own pace and pursue their own interests--learning should never be forced or uniform, but spontaneous and dynamic.
Children don't need to be "taught" -- they simply need to be given opportunites to LEARN.
Holt's good-heartendess, warmth, wisdom and genuine appreciation of children is not to be missed.
Once upon a time I liked this book, then my brother started teaching and then he started calling me EVERY DAY (sometimes as early as 6:30a.m.) sucking me into conversation after conversation about educational philosophy which usually digresses into him insisting that nothing can be taught and everything can be discovered.
I find myself challenging him to "learn" knitting on his own, I threaten to drop off needles and yarn and say stuff like, "and how about cutting an onion?!
I've been sucked into Joshua's latest obsessive thought processes and I have to remind myself, I DONT CARE!!!!!I don't care about education, I don't care about Catholicism, I don't care about philosophy, I don't care about this artist vs.
When I was first given copies of John Holt's "How Children Fail" and "How Children Learn", I was loath to give them more than a scant perusal. I had read a few articles by and about the man who was probably the first to coin the term "unschooling" and generally considered one of the early instigators and champions of the homeschool movement, but I had, for the most part, distanced myself from reading his works in depth.Born, raised and schooled in Singapore, I had had a rigid and rigorous educat
Holt advised patience and loving guidance alongside this trust - when children are frustrated, we need to know when to "draw back, take off the pressure, reassure them, console them, give them time to regain - as in time they will - enough energy and courage to go back to the task".Holt presented many examples of children working in various settings - some readers have told me that they found this a little dry, but I think it speaks a great deal of the deep interest he had in making learning truly fulfilling for children.
To learn and to grow children have to trust and they have to feel accepted.
"There is no time in all of a child's growing up, when he will not be seriously hurt if he feels that we adults are not interested in what he is trying to say." One slow afternoon, I was reading this book at work.
Can you imagine that if every time we made a mistake an all-powerful God came down to tell us we were wrong?
He's loving and patient and usually lets us learn from our own mistakes.
But I learned a lot from the stories he told and was really surprised at times with what he was saying.
I also found the anecdotes valuable over raw stats because I was able to really easily see the context in which many of these philosophies could be applied.Holt largely uses different stories in various subject areas and environments to reiterate the same few points.
This book really gave me a lot to think about and I would definitely recommend it if you're interested in learning about alternate education paths.
Essential read for parents, especially homeschoolers.My favorite section was the Art, Math & Other Things Section.
This quote felt like a sucker punch:"The children begin to feel, after a while, that there was no time for art, that it was not serious.
Soon the pictures get shoved aside by the workbooks, even though there is more real learning in a good picture than in twenty workbooks."Ugh, guilty.
I absolutely celebrate my children's creativity, but I do put too much emphasis on rote learning.
Took me a while to get through, but so so good. One part that really stuck with me and represented the main ideas of the book: "They need to build up a mental model of the territory before they start trying to talk about it. We teachers like to think that we can transplant our own mental models into the minds of children by means of explanations. It cant be done" (222). The whole book gave me a lot to think about as a parent.
After plugging away at reading this book over the course of an entire year, I forgot much of the details but left with great ideas and a deeper understanding of a child's process in learning.
He helps an adult relearn the process and difficulty of learning what we feel is instinctive but for a child is laborious.
--When presenting a child with a new material to learn, allow them to freely explore it before placing the barriers of adult rules or reasoning.
Past a certain age kids give up on trying to learn anything that isn't necessary to succeed.The logic behind school is that it's supposed to turn people in to well-rounded, intelligent human beings.
Most cultures with public education aren't overrun with renaissance men.
People specialize, it's part of what civilizations are built on, so much of what's learned in school is water off a duck's back.What he says early on and pushes through the whole book is to trust kids.
Lack of trust can erode entire civilizations, and in kids it corrupts their ability to work things out themselves.
In this book, Holt examines how very young children (infants to toddlers) learn, and what that has to tell us about how humans are hard-wired to learn.
Holt doesn't spend as much time in this book talking about the specific failings of the educational establishment, but he doesn't need to: the indictment is clear when one considers how humans naturally learn, and then contrasts that with how schools attempt to teach.
Holt's theory is that schools, if we are to have them, should move away from concentrating so much on clever methods for teaching and instead focus on how people learn and facilitate it.
Children learn through games and play.
They seem to learn spontaneously without being taught (like Holt makes the point...if we taught kids to speak how we teach them to read, they would never learn!)I learned it's important to sort of "watch myself" and not interfere with my kids learning process.
I need to let go and let them discover on their own or gently guide them on a path to self-discovery.Holt points out that many children have learned to read without being taught by phonics or whatever "piecemeal" method.
In fact, many children "teach themselves" just by being read to.
This is my first book by Holt.
The man has a gift for understanding children and how they learn and navigate the world.
Holt said that children do not need to be taught because learning is human nature for children and they have their own unique way of doing it.
My son taught himself to read and do simple math at a young age with no intervention from myself other than to give him time, space and the tools (books) should he care to use them.
Even back then, he sees the dangers in mass testing, large classrooms and instruction that provides little room for improvisation and creativity.
This was the first time I've read a John Holt book, and it was definitley worth it.
I'm looking forward to reading How Children Fail next.
There was much I marked, and many pages I dog-earned to return to in the future, but I will at least share his ending comment: "What we need to do, and all we need to do, is bring as much of the world as we can into the school and th eclassroom: give children as much help and guidance as they need and ask for; listen respectfully when they feel like talking; and then get out of the way.
That may sound idealistic or to simple, but after reading his experiences and what he has learned, you may change your mind.
As a teacher, this book really helped me understand children better and I have tried a different approach in class room after reading this book and did get some positive result.
The whole point of the book boils down to; trust and appreciate a child and he will do wonders.
Even as grown ups, we don't like to be forced into learning or believing something so how can we expect children to do that.
The only little problem I had with the book was it sometime leaves you with many more questions.
Children do learn best when they are appreciated.
It's the sort of book that, if you read it properly, has a permanent effect on the way you think. For me, a reread, so not quite so shocking and fundamental, which is perhaps why I've only given it four stars. It feels impossible to argue with most of what he says. Really, anyone with a youngish child should read this and How Children Fail, and should keep it in their heads when they talk to their children.
This book has had the greatest influence on me and my family. My husband and I are striving to stop correcting the kids and have a renewed respect of their ability to learn. No book I have ever read has given me a better direction to provide an environment for learning. Watch out!! Be aware of the "Teacher Devil" in you!
Oh how I wish I had read this book when my children were young! I would have done things very differently. A must read for home educators.
I really liked the book. It changed my view for education and how children learn all together. I definitely lean more towards homeschooling after this book.
And the basis of this trust is that children are fundamentally competent to be themselves without any additional input, guidance or motivation from parents or other adults, who at best can merely replace the child's ego with their own.In reading Holt, I was constantly reminded of my friend's book, [amazon text=A Theory Of Objectivist Parenting&asin=1502315548], which asks the reader to consider the philosophical dilemma of how an individual who is treated as incapable and irresponsible for most of their developmental life can suddenly be expected to be a functioning adult with the snap of two fingers.
The Me of the past, upon reading Holt's work, would have confidently launched into a lengthy diatribe indicting Holt for a litany of agregious offenses not the least of which would have included a failure to be pragmatic, academic laziness (re: his utter disregard for quantitative research), and just plain ol' utilitarian naivete.
Quite simply, the me of today longs to be comfortable with Holt's messy, liberated, unfettered model.That said, I remain unwilling to follow Holt blindly into an affair with qualitative research, yielding all my aforementioned confidence in pragmatism and order.
I am still 100 pages till the end of the book, but so far I am disspointed although I put high expectations on it, and maybe the problem is in me not in the book.The book first chapter states a comparison between two different, contradicted ways about learning about children.
Maybe the idea that children don't need us was irritating for me.Another problem in this revised edition, that he changed his opinion completely about things he said in the first edition without saying "Why" and "How" he came to believe in this.
Without going any further in my review, I want it to be known that this book has revolutionized my thinking on children and education.
Children are constantly in a state of testing what they know, but this process isn't necessarily linear.
One of the things that I loved about this book is that it had lots of real-world examples of parents and educators putting this into practice, and then Mr. Holt would comment on these examples.
(It is ok for them to "mess about".) So today is my youngest daughter's birthday, and I asked my oldest daughter to write a card for her sister.
Reading this book, however, for the first time made me feel going back and looking at her growing up more closely.
Now I realize anything could have waited, but those beautiful learning and playing days won't come again.
Everything will fall in place if we start enjoying their childhood.Children are so much capable of teaching themselves, that sometimes our teaching does more harm than good.
One day I set off to teach her to write number '2' - which she found the trickiest.
After this exercise I needed the outcome that Siyona, my daughter, should be able to write 2.
This book helped me to see the sense-of-life connection, that the first time a child "falls in love" with something (like trains or cars) how I respond to it is crucial.
It is now very clear to me that following what we love, being supported and encouraged to follow our love IS how we connect our lives to joy and develop a benevolent sense of life.I will never understand how terrible parenting books full of terrible advice sell a million copies and this book has been out for thirty years and is not nearly famous enough.I liked how John Holt goes through and comments on his original book over a decade later, talking about how even he has lightened up as a parent.
It turned out to be an extremely important read for me and I believe is for anyone interested in children and their education.Both books are similar in terms of writing style and their underlying message.
While at a few places Holt’s interpretations of a particular situation may not be entirely justifiable given the evidence, and he does not claim the conjectures to be final, that in my opinion is beside the point given the significance of the crucial underlying message about children and how they learn that these books convey.
John Holt was an intelligent man writing about his studies of childrens' learning styles and education.
While I'm reading this book to understand child - led learning, I am still the parent and will guide them appropriately while listening to their interests.
Reading about Lisa's behavior and some of the other children he undertakes to study make me cringe when I hear them disrespecting him and he assigning it to a strong character of the child to which he needs to adapt.
My largest concern with Holt is that he was never a parent and further not a homeschooler so his books are based solely on observation without formal training.
Even though I read the updated edition (sometime in the '80s), most of this book was written in the 1960s and I was amazed at just how "on" John Holt was, even 40 years ago.
Pretty fascinating stuff.I think the schools have come a long way since he wrote the book, and they have the right idea, but curriculum and control still drive public school classrooms.
Schools think this to be out of necessity, but as a former teacher who ran my classroom much more closely to the John Holt way, there is a way to make it all work.
It felt as if Mr. Holt started out trying to prove that children learn perfectly well on their own, without any adult interference, and that he then collected anecdotes that prove exactly this point.
This makes the book a little repetitive, and not as convincing, since its hard to believe that every observation of a child would provide evidence of Mr. Holt's theories, while none would provide any evidence to the contrary.
Whether in the end you believe wholeheartedly in Mr. Holt's theories, its certainly worthwhile to be faced with such a strong, well-reasoned argument in favor of them.
