https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15730101-the-call-of-cthulhu
This here, folks, is the most impressive image of Cthulhu that I’ve come across:  He just looks so damn regal, this eldritch, malevolent entity that appears part octopus kraken, part dragon, part human caricature…the so called "mountain who walks." Yes, I admit that I’m a Lovecraft/Cthulhu mythos junkie. I can’t help it. I think his stories are just amazing. Depending on which HPL story I’ve most recently consumed, I vacillate regarding what is my absolute favorite HPL tale, The Call of Cthulhu,
Depending on which HPL story I’ve most recently consumed, I vacillate regarding what is my absolute favorite HPL tale, The Call of Cthulhu, the Dunwich Horror or At the Mountains of Madness.
Regardless of where you come out on the issue of Lovecraft’s best work, let me postulate that HPL never wrote a better passage describing the fundamental philosophical underpinnings of his work than the opening paragraph of The Call of Cthulhu: 
Okay, so it’s not the rosiest, most upbeat of pictures, but hey…this is horror after all and when it comes to creating atmosphere and imagery to tantalize and terrify, these stories are gold.
This story captures so much of Lovecraft’s twisted imagination; it is the pinnacle of his writing, the best of his form.
Cthulhu is an ancient entity, shrouded and forgotten, yet he is very real in the minds of those he touches and those that worship him.
"This was that cult, and the prisoners said it had always existed and always would exist, hidden in distant wastes and dark places all over the world until the time came when the great priest Cthulhu, from his dark house in the might city of R’lyeh under the waters, should rise and bring the earth again beneath his sway.
Perhaps no story more defines H.P. Lovecraft’s eldritch hold on speculative fiction than The Call of Cthulhu.Pronounced: Cthulhu.First published in 1928, in Weird Tales magazine, this launched what is now known as the Cthulhu Mythos.
It was here, as much as his earlier unspeakable horrors like Dagon and The Tomb and The Nameless City, that formed what is today known as Lovecraftian; but it was great Cthulhu that gave this sub-genre it’s definition and a face from which to leer down upon poor, lost humanity.Told as many of Lovecraft’s stories, as a lost manuscript found again, this highlights many ubiquitous Lovecraft themes such as forbidden knowledge, unspeakable horrors, pre-human civilizations, occultism and secret societies.
Lovecraft does this by toying with our assumptions about geometric relationships, the integrity of form, the size and hierarchy of objects, and the relationship of proximity and immediacy to temporal sequence and significance.The altering of geometries is probably the least disconcerting of the disorienting things I have listed here, for it is commonly hinted at in Lovecraft stories; indeed, it is almost a Lovecraft cliché.
The reader, who experiences vicariously the immediacy of the sailor's quest, is disoriented when he realizes that the narrative has now come full circle, and that the full horror of Cthulhu which Johansen witnesses happened on the very same night that sculptor Wilcox was dreaming his dreams.
A BR with a faithful member of Cthulhu Cult, Craig.Quite a nice ride to sunset with Cthulhu. I liked the spooky atmosphere, the info about the Cthulhu Cult and Old Ones,and the tickles that it gave to unbelievers! :) It would have been really cool to get more limbs flying from the main Thing, but the ending was quite nice :)
هر بار می خواستم به خدا فکر کنم، بی آن که بخواهم تصویر این هشت پا، با چشم هایی مانند چشم های انسان در ذهنم شکل می گرفت، هر چند می دانستم خدا نباید شکلی داشته باشد، اما نمی توانستم جلوی این تصور را بگیرم.
نخستین تصویر شناخته شدۀ جهان از خدای واحد، شبه-اختاپوسی آسمانی بود، با بازوهایی شبیه به انسان که تا زمین پایین آمده بودند تا از زمینیان نگهداری کنند.۴.در اساطیر هاوایی، در جایی در زیر زمین یا زیر دریا، خدایی غول پیکر نهفته است، خدایی که علیه باقی خدایان شورید، در نتیجه به زیر زمین تبعید شد.
His most famous work!  LOVECRAFT'S SIGNATURE WORK  The most merciful thing in the world, I think, is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. We live on a placid island of ignorance in the midst of black seas of infinity, and it was not meant that we should voyage far. Easily the most known story by H.P. Lovecraft and the text which gives a formal “birth” to the Cthulhu Mythos, along with the mention of the “fake” book of Necronomicon, inspiring dozens of other writers to
His most famous work!
LOVECRAFT'S SIGNATURE WORK
Easily the most known story by H.P. Lovecraft and the text which gives a formal “birth” to the Cthulhu Mythos, along with the mention of the “fake” book of Necronomicon, inspiring dozens of other writers to contribute with their own pieces to enlarge the horror franchise.Through a series of “found documents” during three sections in the narrative, it’s slowy revealed how a secret cult, so ancient along with the dawn of men, it was founded to keep memories of some kind of species from the stars who walk the Earth before humankind, and that they retired themselves to the depths of the sea and the core of the planet, but......before they pass to the first member of the cult, the promise that Cthulhu, its prophesied priest, someday will born and the cult is waiting,......always waiting.
What better time to read The Call of Cthulhu than on Halloween?!
Probably should've read this one by now, but I've been holding off for a while, waiting for that special occasion.I do that with some books, usually classics.
There's a Steinbeck or two I'm keeping in my proverbial back pocket for when I'm in the right mood or need to get out of a reading funk.The Call of Cthulhu is pure horror.
Reading this reminded me of reading Poe as a kid.
Perhaps this is best described as Poe-stylings layered over Absalom Absalom.
What’s great about a Lovecraftian horror story, besides the fact that his writing is eerily similar to that of Jason Morais, is that it can afford such a welcome reprieve from a weekend otherwise consumed by madness and violence, the kind of violence that disturbs the soul to its core.“The Call of Cthulhu” is the story of a man who uncovers evidence of otherworldly beings residing in a state of hibernation deep beneath the surface of the Earth’s oceans. Though the image of Cthulhu is by no means
In many ways, the Smoke Monster is like Cthulhu in that both entities are responsible for baseline levels of dread in people everywhere, driving some of them to madness occasionally.
I’d like to think the madness of the events of this weekend could be attributed to a resurfacing of the monster Cthulhu, but unfortunately for us we do not live in an H.
Perhaps one of the major achievement of this short story is the blend of realistic background (narrated in first-person without any dialogue) with demonic details which, for the most part, are characterised as indescribable, and left to the reader’s weirdest imaginings.Lovecraft drew his inspiration from the Greek myths of Atlantis, of the Gorgon, of Polyphemus (The Odyssey) and the Scandinavian legend of the Kraken, possibly also from Poe’s Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym, Melville’s Moby-Dick and Jules Verne’s Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. The Cthulhu story has had a significant influence on late 20th-century sci-fi and horror genres, especially in the visual arts, from Druillet and Mœbius graphic novels to movie franchises such as Alien, Indiana Jones and Pirates of the Caribbean.
Lovecraft Illustrated volume 7Contents:ix - Introduction by S.
T. Joshi (2015)003 - "The Call of Cthulhu" by H.
P. Lovecraft051 - "Making Some Calls" by Pete Von Sholly (2015)057 - "On the Emergence of "Cthulhu" "by Steven J.
Price (2015)079 - "Cthulhu Elsewhere in Lovecraft" by Robert M.
Price (1982)085 - "Heeding "The Call of Cthulhu" " by W.
H. Pugmire (2015)091 - "On Making "The Call of Cthulhu" " by Sean Branney (2015)097 - "Adapting "The Call of Cthulhu" as a Silent Movie" by Andrew Leman (2015)107 - "The Dreamer in the House" by Pete Von Sholly (2015)Cover and Interior Illustrations - by Pete Von Sholly (2015)
They had come from the stars, and had brought Their images with Them. The Call of Cthulhu is truly a horror story without the need of any graphic violence. Just the idea of the cult of Cthulhu (how it came to be and what its purpose is) gives me shivers down my spine.This is my first experience with H.P. Lovecraft. But it will not be my last because I like his style very much.
Lovecraft's writing style is just not my cuppa and that's why I thought this was only OK.
Even though this was a short story it felt like it took me forever to get through.
I'm all for purple prose but Lovecraft describes things in 2 pages when he really only needed 2 sentences.
Verbose is putting it mildly.I always wanted to read this so that I would better understand what people were talking about when they mention Cthulhu.
Cthulhu is an interesting concept and I wanted to know more about it.
I can understand the fascination around the creature.
A nice change from reading the story. The narrative choice for this tale was well done with a nice twist at the end. I've listened to this twice in one day!
I'm beginning to think this is one of those books I'll never write a review of; one of the books simply for me to enjoy.***I may be able to write a good review of this sometime. This time I'll just say I need more stars. ***Just as great as the first time I read it. That didn't change.
Very creepy and atmospheric, in an old-fashioned way. Not really my thing, but it kept my interest well enough. 3 1/2 stars.Disclaimer: I'm not into the horror genre and I've never been a Lovecraft fan, although I did read The Dunwich Horror once upon a time. But I was reading and trying to understand Neil Gaiman's A Study in Emerald yesterday, and in the course of researching the Cthulhu aspects of that story I found this one online at http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/The_Cal.... It's worth reading if you like this kind of thing.
This was an audio re-read of The Call of Cthulhu for me. This audio came through the AudioBlast newsletter and I requested it right away.I enjoyed listening to this performance. It had a full dramatization going on with sounds effects, screams and whatnot in the background. However, at times the main narrator went a little flat for me.Overall, I enjoyed this performance and would recommend it to fans of cosmic horror and Lovecraft. *Thanks to Audioblast for the opportunity to listen to this story in exchange for an honest review. This is it.*
In high school, my best friend was utterly obsessed with Lovecraft, which meant I was constantly force-fed numerous short stories of his which I never really enjoyed or remembered fondly. After a decade or so I decided to go back and revisit Lovecraft, and I gotta admit I was pleasantly surprised. The Horror he depicts is a metaphysical horror that very few writers have been able to replicate, but his prose, though often overstimulating, is engrossing and poetic. Xenophobia aside, I enjoyed this short story very much
Lectura del mes del #Clubdelectura.uy.  «Lo que ha emergido puede hundirse y lo que se ha hundido puede emerger otra vez. La mayor de las blasfemias espera y sueña en las profundidades, y la decadencia circula entre las débiles ciudades de los hombres». Buen cuento, ideal para introducirse en el terror cósmico de Lovecraft y el concepto de los dioses primigenios.
If you like to read boring stories with no characterization, no dialogue, lazy descriptions, and rampant racism, this is for you. As for me, one star is a bit too generous.
For those who enjoy rifling through old research notes, piecing together missing data, making sense of the big picture, and then being left hanging at the end.I'm kidding, of course.
No explanation, no resolution, no sense of closure.This story is told in a series of personal accounts in which the narrator pieces together what he thinks was the cause of his granduncle's mysterious sudden death, speculating that the late uncle's mysterious anthropological work most likely had something to do with it.
(view spoiler)[Davy Jones from Pirates of the Caribbean with wings...
(hide spoiler)]It was a slow read for me due to too much telling and not enough showing.
«Si el cielo decidiese algún día acordarme un insigne favor, borraría totalmente de mi memoria el descubrimiento que hice.» Cthulhu me tenía intrigada hace años, y tengo que decir que no me decepcionó ni un poquito. Durante años también pronuncié mal el nombre del monstruo (llegué hasta a decirle 'Chuchu' en broma) pero según parece se pronuncia 'Ctulu' o incluso 'Tulu'. Igual me gusta ese nombre de escritura más complicada, de algún modo lo vuelve más atemorizante y menos terrícola.Este es un
Richard Luong - http://luongart.hostoi.com/Lo que había leído de Lovecraft no me voló la cabeza en su momento (ahora pienso que debería releerlo) pero la verdad que este libro en particular me gustó mucho, tiene un estilo atrapante que hace que no quieras dejar de leer.Es muy diferente a otros clásicos de horror que he leído previos a 1928, si bien por momentos me recordó a 'La narración de Arthur Gordon Pym' (Poe) y a 'La isla del Dr. Moreau', por el estilo del relato y ciertos pequeños elementos comunes a las historias que transcurren en parte en el mar.Me hubiera gustado que fuera más extenso, o mejor dicho, si lo hubiese hecho más largo hubiese estado muy bien también.
Por suerte no es el único relato sobre Cthulhu que existe, y eso incluye tanto a Lovecraft como a muchos otros autores que se colgaron de los tentáculos y siguieron haciendo que el mito "viva".
Chicken mole tamales wrapped in corn husks, like H.P. Lovecraft's Call of Cthulhu, burst with flavor.
You experience the authenticity and the complex and dark, rich tastes in every bite you take.
Every bite, or rather Lovecraft's narrative, takes you back to ancient rites alien to the ways of the modern world (now read as 2015).
Makes me wonder, just for an instant, what a really good homemade tamale has in common with the modern world.
Tamales are anachronistic, aren't they?
Sort of like the Cthulhu mythos.
Can we really wrap our heads around ancient evil or authentic homemade tamales?
I got vagaries of Fitzgerald-in terms of writing style and their ability to put every single word to good use, with no spare sentences put adrift on the page-but unlike F.
But when you have writing as good as this, and a wonderful sense of imagination, those are little annoyances that can be ignored or at least put aside for a while.It is not horror in the strictest sense, nor is it part of the gothic scene that sprung up in the mid-to-late Victorian period, but it certainly contains elements of all that.
I'm still not entirely sure that I understand the hype, but it was an interesting story nonetheless, and Lovecraft, pretentious has he is, has a talent for crafting horror with deep psychological undertones.
Es una locura, Lovecraft es un enfermo. Transmite perfectamente las sensaciones mas oscuras. Tuve que googlear muchas palabras. No suelo leer libros de terror pero se que esto es un estilo particular, alejado quizás del terror clásico. Es cortito y al pié, fluido, se termina en un rato. Lo leí arriba de un colectivo y fue increíble.
I have read many a story with wonderful beginnings, and now, I take it all back, because with this incredible, almost orgasmic first paragraph, Lovecraft has all my votes.
The Call of Cthulhu is a terrifying tale of madness and of the unknown, and yet, in such terror lies immense and tremendous beauty.
Yet a god so fearful it is only worshipped by a cult of misfits and invalids, who, through their constant chanting aim to someday "wake" this fearsome, yet impressive creature to rule the world again.
So- I read this for my PopSugar prompt: “book by a local author.”And I sort of wished I’d picked something else, mostly because Lovecraft was apparently a huge racist, and it shows in his writing.
He managed to demonize probably every group of people on earth that weren’t white Christians, up to and including Eskimos.
We know beforehand if the character telling their part is alive or dead.
I don’t know- I’m just not sold.
It’s great that this inspired so many awesome things afterward, but honestly it’s sort of shocking that anyone found it inspiring at all.So- Lovecraft is not my style.
I was not impressed.
For all the talk this particular book has gotten in my circles, it really wasn't very interesting a read.
The description was interesting but I didn't find the book as anything monumental save for it being one of the first of its kind.
The book was a quick read and allowed a glimpse into the world Lovecraft was trying to build, but taken on its own, it left me curious why it was so impressive to most of the genre.
Perhaps taken with the other studies in the mythos I would be more impressed.
La llamada de Cthulhu  tal vez no me haya sorprendido del todo, pero me encantó y creo que tiene su fama de clásico del horror bien ganada.
Y así es como uno debería sentirse al leer libros de este género, al menos desde mi punto de vista y mi gusto personal.Me hubiera encantado que el cuento fuera más extenso.
Pero tal vez estaba esperando un poco más de actividad del protagonista.En conclusión,  La llamada de Cthulhu  es un cuento imperdible para cualquiera que ame el género de terror y, si ya son fanáticos de Lovecraft, es obligatorio, aunque imagino que es el primero en leerse.
