https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2029177.Sundays_at_Tiffany_s
Either Patterson had some formula he wanted his co-author to adhere to, or one or both of these writers didn’t trust that modern readers would accept a romantic fantasy without a fully described sex scene.I’m perfectly fine with sexual intimacy in "some" books, "some" series, especially if it’s beautifully realized, sensual or sexy.
Not because it was tawdry, or badly written, or unduly explicit; but because it was there, in THIS type of story.These authors (or perhaps just Patterson, who most likely didn’t have time to write it by himself) wanted to tell an old-fashioned, Robert Nathan-like story, but I had to wonder if either of these authors had ever actually read one of Nathan’s books.
I didn't know I could roll my eyes that hard.
I'm pretty sure a dude was watching me on the Metro as I closed the book multiple times, tried to refrain from making noises of disgust, and rolled my eyes at every paragraph.
Seriously, they took a tolerable (if sort of creepy) book and then KILLED IT in the last 50 pages.
I've got maybe another 60-75 pages to go, which I will probably read over my morning latte at work, so I'll let you know how that goes.
Vivienne, her successful broadway producer mother pays little attention to Jane, except for their weekly trip to Tiffany's every Sunday.
Jane spends most of her time with the only person she can really depend on in her life, her imaginary friend, Michael.
But unfortunately, imaginary friends don't last forever and Jane loses the one person she counts on the most.
This is a fantasy story in a way, but Michael's job as an imaginary friend is explained well and wasn't hard for me to believe.
It wasn't hard to understand, but I did wonder why the author wrote the book this way.Michael was pretty much flawless, so he really wasn't realistic at all.
Picture this, you are an eight year old child and you have an adult imaginary friend of the opposite sex.
One day you see him/her in your city when you’re an adult and the imaginary friend hasn’t changed one bit.
Well this is what James Patterson and Gabrielle Charbonnet Sundays at Tiffany’s is all about.Jane is now an adult working not only in the company her mother started, but also for an overbearing mother.
Jane has successfully created a Broadway show called Thank Heaven which is based on her imaginary friend Michael whom she has never forgotten.
She glances up and thinks she see’s Michael her imaginary friend.
Let me start by saying I love romances with a supernatural twist, usually. Having had imaginary friends as a child I thought this book was right up my alley. I was sooooooooo mistaken. It was a little creepy. It was so syrupy sweet that I thought I was going to go into sugar shock. It was probably one of the silliest stories I have ever read. And the ending... all neatly tied up in the last twenty pages. Boring! The only good thing about it is that it only took me a few hours to finish.
Love love love this book!Love the main characters, the romance, the feels!!
The plot is a unique one: Girl has an imaginary friend.
Imaginary friend leaves her.
Girl grows up.
Imaginary friend shows up.
That's a love story to tell the grandkids.
I cannot say too much about this book without spoiling it, but I can say that the story really delivers...
A perfect end to a perfect romance.
A movie was made based on this book, and although it was a fun film to watch, readers of the book will be disappointed since they took away many crucial points from the book that is the heart of the story.But I do recommend this book to fans of Patterson and hopeless romantics like me.
I understand that usually it signifies a change of setting, etc., however, combined with the large print, that just makes the book so much more shorter than it could have been.As this being my personal review, I felt the author(s) could have done much more justice to the story than what had been done.
I did not feel any strong emotions for the relationship between Jane and Micheal in their relationship as "imaginary friends" or as adults.So to sum it up: it's an okay story with not enough pages to get the readers to feel anything for any of the characters.
Mommy didn't love me, Daddy is too busy for me, my imaginary friend left me (seriously), my boyfriend is a total jerk...etc, etc, etc.
So, the thought of a love story between a woman and her childhood imaginary friend was certainly not for me.
Creepy uncle style.I was also unsure as to what demographic this book was supposed to be targeted.
The language was pretty elementary and the plot of falling in love with your imaginary friend also seems to skew to a young audience for me...but due to the nature of the one sex scene in it, I think this book was probably marketed to middle-aged lonely women and that bothers me.
I picked this book randomly from the description online and added it to my list of books that I wanted for my birthday.
The only way I can describe this book is by saying that it's so bad, you're slightly embarrassed to be caught reading it.
Another tedious thing related to the publishing: the print is huge, there aren't too many sentences per page and the chapters are 1-2 pages long.
These are not the kind of chapters that leave you hanging, either.If you are headed to the beach for the day and need something lighthearted to entertain you, bring this along.
It embodied everything I enjoy about reading James Patterson.
This is when I realize that I am almost to the point where I have to wait for another James Patterson story to take me away.I immediately fell in love with young Jane.
Jane has the fortunate gift of a wonderful friend, Michael.
Michael is the utmost in imaginary friends.
Michael's and Jane's friendship is completely charming and wonderful, and I found myself thinking I should have thought larger when I had my own imaginary friend.Jane as an adult is equally loveable.
Sundays at Tiffany's is a truly remarkable story, and I am so glad that I was given the opportunity to read it.
Secondly, it is a really sappy sort of love story and I think that kind of book is just for girls.
(I know, I know, another unreasonable mind set, but I felt like I should be under a umbrella at the beach behind a pair of Ray Ban Sunglasses) And finally, it is written by a mass marketed author whom has numerous books for sale in the check outline at the local grocer right next to the M & M's.
True, it is a sappy love story.
And true, it is mass marketed.
I was aware that I was not the audience for this book going in.
I don’t read a lot of formula fiction, though I did when I was younger, but someone in my book club chose it and I decided to keep an open mind.I did.
I felt high minded about it too, and secretly hoped that it would be a fluffy, fun read.
I hope never to read something so ridiculous and poorly written again.
Still, I’m well aware that it’s a “Patterson” best seller, so someone liked it.It was actually written not by James Patterson, but by Gabrielle Charbonnet.
Jane and Michael are great characters with comendable personalities.
The book made me laugh several times.
The only thing that happened that I wouldn't want her to read up til that point was that Jane's boyfriend Hugh said the F word a few times.
There is a very short love scene at the end that she is not old enough to read but I am sure today at dinner I will have to finish the story for them.
It made me laugh, love life and tear up a couple of times.
The way he gets all flustered by the encounter with Jane which was what he least expected is such a delight to read, it had me giggling so many times and my anticipation was just on the rise as I kept turning pages.That Michael himself hasn’t grasped what he really is – whether he is an Angel or not – is quite an added intrigue, giving some depth to the story and I think it is one of the stand-out element of this book.
We have owned such precious moments, and it will forever stay in our hearts.That is why I cried a tear when Michael told Jane that her 9th birthday is the last day he will stay with her, thus, the end of his assignment.
Michael told us that Jane will simply forget that he arrived and became her friend.
In life and in love, the mantra is so powerful, it can mold faces and make two total strangers look like the same over the years.
I may not yet experience the kind of love that does not forget, but I have my power of attraction as my weapon.
Patterson has created another great little read that will leave you feeling, well, happy.
If you've read 'The Notebook' or 'Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas', you'll know that when I say happy ending, I'm not guaranteeing it won't be sad.
Read this novel if: You've loved 'The Notebook' or any of Nicholas Sparks's novels.
If you DO read this book and enjoy it, MAKE SURE you read 'Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas', also by James Patterson.
That book is easily worth 5 stars.Don't read this novel if: Emotions make you feel uncomfortable!
Cozy, sweet, warm, and just lovely.
I really enjoyed the story of Jane and her journey of self discovery.
The love story may have waxed a bit sappy in some places or racy in one...but I still loved it.
The relationship between Michael and Jane was so sweet.
I also thought it was interesting to observe the dynamic between Jane and her mother.
The ending surprised me, but I thought it very appropriate and actually liked it.
So, if you are looking for a really lovely book that is pure enjoyment and fun, pick this one!!
I think this book is LAME! I rolled my eyes throughout the story...interesting idea, but it pans out badly!
This is a sweet, easy read romance novel with a twist. For me, it was an excellent poolside read. 3.5 stars
"Why do things this beautiful make me want to cry?" I asked Michael as I leaned into him, it was an unguarded question, one I'd never have asked of Hugh. "I don't know," said Michael. "Maybe beauty, true beauty, is so overwhelming, it goes straight to our hearts. Maybe it makes us feel emotions that are locked away inside." He blinked and gave a bashful smile. Sundays at Tiffany’s is a romantic melodrama that follows the story of Jane, initially as an eight year old little girl and then in her
Take Michael, our leading man: he is the perfect blend of mysterious, sensitive and dashing good looks all rolled up into one little dreamboat package…*YAWN* No emotional depth, no sense of realism…okay maybe expecting a little grit and realism is a stretch too far on my behalf because I wanted something light-hearted and frivolous but this was a stretch too far even for me!Then there was our leading lady, Jane: a once shy chubby sweet innocent little girl now grown up and is still that same blend of shy, of innocence of extreme kindness but who is living only a shell of a life, she is living in the shadow of her domineering mother.
Michael was Jane’s grown up adult imaginary friend when she was just a little girl and then suddenly he was in romantic love with her?????
So the story starts off with a little Jane and her imaginary friend Micheal.
And unfortunately Michael her imaginary friend will be leaving her on her birthday.
Usually we forget about our imaginary friend and we stopped to grow up and we don't need them anymore but somehow someway Jane never ever forgot Micheal how best friend and yes our Magine Ary friend.
These to fall in love and Micheal starts to question his existence and why he's there with Jane as a grown-up.
Because you know he's always been with children as their imaginary friend so I was a little confusing to him.
I think it takes a lot to make me unsatisfied with a read but this book just didn't do it for me.
Both of those books were fabulous and very quick reads.
It was a quick read but the plot was WEIRD.
I am not giving anything away here but the main character falls in love with her imaginary friend.
It says this right on the front of the book.
After seeing the cover and reading the back I was skeptical but I thought I would give it a shot.
Is the imaginary character real?
The imaginary character, Michael, doesn't even understand what he is.
I personally got just a little sick of hearing a) how amazing Michael was, b) how low Jane's self-esteem was, c) how horrid Vivienne was and d) how horrid Hugh was!
It was like James Patterson had four ideas left and half a book to write, so he just replayed scenes over and over and over and over and over and OVER....seriously.
How many times does Hugh have to swear at Jane before she figures out that maybe she should just stop seeing him?
She loves her "Jane sweetie!" out of thin air!
I liked the concept of this book, but what started out as a riveting story about an adult woman's imaginary friend from childhood returning to her, soon became just another typical chick-lit romance with little else going for it. :(
ehem..Anywho..this book is like none I have ever read before (yeah, yeah I saw that often, but it's soo true!) It's so darn original you have no idea, unless you've read it of course haha I absolutely love the idea of imaginary friends, which is one of the reasons I love Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends hehe.
This book is about Jane and her imaginary friend Michael(!!!) who of course no one but her can see.
When Jane's ninth(I know for sure it's her ninth birthday, on bn it says eight..hmm weird) birthday comes around, it's time for Michael to go.
Jane Margaux is a lonely girl who does not have any friends.
Although her mother Vivienne is present in her life,she is not there when she needs her the most.
However,she continues to keep tabs to Jane,much to her daughter dismay.There is one person that Jane can turn to,Michael her imaginary friend.
As an attentive listener, he is the only one who remains constant in her life.
Yet Michael knows that his time with her is only temporary.
Still Jane does not want him to leave just yet ....If ever.
Pressing through his conflicted thoughts,he leaves without a hopeful explanation.
Constantly her thoughts are consumed with Michael.
Its tagline :"What if your imaginary friend from childhood was your one true love?" and the synopsis on the back cover made me want to read this book.A lovely story.
I found myself smiling for no apparent reason.It gave me different kinds of feelings while reading :)I want my own Michael <3(view spoiler)[The authors were pretty clever.
I didn't expect her to die -.-I don't even want to start with Hugh who was a stupid jerk!On their honeymoon, I got the feeling that she might be pregnant.
;)Did I have an imaginary friend when I was a kid?
Re-Read (Audio Book): December 9, 2016 thru December 15, 20164.25-4.5 StarsJust as charming the second time around.__________________________________________Original Read: June 2009At the risk of gushing, I *loved* this book. I'm sure many would pick it apart as shamelessly sentimental and perhaps go as far to call it fluff, but I think that cynicism is causing some to miss out on a truly lovely feel-good novel. This one has a one-way ticket to the keeper shelf.
Um livro de leitura fácil, com uma escrita simples. Um romance fofinho.Gostei da Jena mas adorei o Michael.Gostei
I don't typically read this type of book or anything by James Patterson, but I thought the idea of the book was intriguing.
It was like reading the CliffsNotes version of what could have been a really good book.
It went so fast and was so "lite" without any real depth that I thought for sure that something was missing.
I'd like to see a really good novelist take the idea and flesh it out satisfactorily, and make it a *real* novel.
I wonder how books like this get published!
If it hadn't been James Patterson, I'm sure this book would have gone in any editor's or agent's reject pile.
