https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4771350-the-beast-with-five-fingers
These are not without interest, but they are generally very slight.Of the horror tales (or rather, the tales of unease - horror is generally too equivocal a term to use here) the title tale is something of an anomaly, being both the most famous and the most atypical tale by WF Harvey.
It's an unsubtle sort of affair, in its key concept, and subtly chilling concepts are a keynote of Harvey's more effective tales.
These include the superb The Dabblers, a tale which contains its own critique in the form of a cynical listener dismissing the narrator's tale, and then overcomes the critique with a chilling little coda.
I needed some time to think this story over. I liked it pretty much and it was a creepy tale and really well written.. But before it getting creepy I really had to laugh because I thought it was quite funny and unexpected. But maybe this is just because (view spoiler)[I couldn't NOT think about Thing T. Thing here (which is literally called 'ice-cold (small) hand' in my language) (hide spoiler)]
Pese a esto, Harvey ha llegado a hacerse un hueco en el Olimpo de los escritores de terror y misterio, con obras maestras como La bestia con cinco dedos (macabro relato sobre una mano con vida propia; existe una versión cinematográfica de 1946, con el gran Peter Lorre), Sambo (donde una muñeca africana ejerce una siniestra influencia sobre una niña), El corazón del fuego (donde destaca el poder que ejerce una chimenea sobre su protagonista), El reloj (corto pero inquietante relato), La señorita Avenal (donde una especie de vampiro psíquico absorbe la energía vital de la protagonista), o Calor de agosto (corto, pero magistral en cuanto estructura, desarrollo y suspense).
The short story "The Beast With Five Fingers" literally scared me when I first read it. I was in high school on summer vacation. I stayed all night reading books. After I read this I was paranoid that a hand was coming through the window at night to get me.
This book has just the right kind of spookiness, chase, and plot to keep the reader hooked until the very end! I found the main character a little slow, though. If you’ve interacted with a creepy hand and then receive a suspicious box in the mail, you better suspect it’s the hand. But it’s still a highly entertaining read you should go for if you love the creepy crawlies!
I was in single digit years when I first read Harvey's story, Across the Moors, which left an imprint on my memory ever since. I certainly wasn't disappointed by this collection, either. While many of the stories disturb in more of a psychological manner, the settings and the snapshots of time captured are superb. After finishing the collection, Midnight House has joined Across the Moors as one of the most memorable stories I've read. My only wish is that the remainder of Harvey's works were included.
Aunque la mayoría de estos relatos se alejan del horror sobrenatural y se acercan más al suspenso, me parece que William Fryer Harvey es un excelente autor capaz de generar esa sensación de inquietud, de que los protagonistas de sus relatos se encuentran amenazados por fuerzas que pueden (o no) tener una explicación racional.
Es justamente esa ambigüedad, el no saber si lo que le ocurre a los personajes es causado por su mente o por fuerzas sobrenaturales lo que hace que este autor sea algo diferente en el género del horror.
The Beast with Five Fingers is a finger licking good read.
Lido apenas o conto "La Bestia con Cinco Dedos" no livro: "Horrorscope. Mitos Basicos del Cine de Terror, Volúmen 2." Con prólogo, selección y notas de J. A. Molina Foix. Editora Nostromo, Madrid, 1974.A assistir: The Beast with Five Fingers (1947), de Robert Florey, com Peter Lorre. Música de Max Steiner. Warner Brothers.
Ormerod: no es un cuento estrictamente sobrenatural, aunque podríamos encuadrarlo como un caso velado de “vampirismo” psíquico.La casa de la medianoche, el reloj y el corazón del fuego: típicos cuentos de casa encantadas.Sambo: otro de los mejores, aunque choca un poco el estilo con el que está narrado.Por lo que podemos decir que la obra de Harvey se divide en algunos relatos difícil de encuadrar aunque tienen poco de horror (los menos) y el resto sobre posesiones o maldiciones del pasado, casas embrujadas y vampirismo psíquico.
Reseña: http://www.fabulantes.com/2012/10/la-..."Harvey es un narrador de primera categoría, un purista de la forma.
Su relato "Calor de agosto", que abre el libro de Valdemar, forma parte del material didáctico fundamental de muchos talleres de escritura por su construcción y por el sostenimiento del suspense y de la acción dramática.
Contar a la manera en que él lo hace, sin alterarse, sin que el ritmo decaiga ni la acción se disperse, requiere sin duda de grandes dosis de sangre fría y de fortaleza de ánimo."
Uncle Adrian was blind but developed the use of his hands to a fantastic degree. Unknown to even him, he's capable of automatic writing. His nephew notices it. After Uncle Adrian passes away, his nephew Eustace receives a box that contains what he thinks is a live animal...Please read the full review here.
hahahaha fab fun!The Man in Black reveals the horror in a small box bequeathed to a scientist. Stars Edward de Souza and James LaurensenBroadcast on:BBC Radio 7, 12:30am Monday 2nd August 2010Duration:30 minutesAvailable until:1:02am Monday 9th August 2010
I found it quite difficult to understand this story..
