https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817139.Queen_s_Confession
Another sixth grade memory.
Really got me in to European history and the truth (as truthful as we actually receive history) of it all.
The fact that it is written in first person really made it real for me, at 12...This book also reminds me of our librarian at school.
She recommended this book to me and I remember telling her it was a bit too much.
She looked me straight in the eyes and said, "Darling, you read it one word at a time.
Look up the words you don't know.
And keep reading." She was great.
In high school I loved all of the Holt/Plaidy Queen "confessionals", and this was one of my favorites. Like any good book about Marie Antoinette, you want to choke her silly little neck.
I only knew a very little about Marie Antoinette before, so this was a very interesting book for me.
I really enjoyed that it was written as an autobiography because it made the story so exciting!
Also, the historical truth through the memoirs and letters made it seem very real as I read.
This truly felt like Marie writing her story and I don't know if I can think of her being any different now.
I could not put it down for the last 1/4 of the story because it was so intense even though I knew what the historical ending was!
I read this book when I was very young and it was a catalyst! First of all, my love of reading I attribute to Victoria Holt! Reading was not easy for me as a child, but her novels grabbed me into the reading world forever. First her romance novels and then her historical fiction novels (also under the Jean Plaidy pen name) brought history to life. I read anything I could get my hands on from her, and this was before the Internet! A great way to learn if you are traveling!
Holt has done fastidious homework and while much of the intimate detail is fictionalized, Marie Antoinette and the circumstances of the French Revolution are drawn in great detail, from the historical events down to fantastic three-foot high hairstyles and her love of beautiful gowns to the little country home, the Trianon, that she had built on the grounds of Versailles to live her conception of pastoral idyllic life.
As one who hated the super-conflated etiquette of the French court, Marie was so ill-suited to the manipulations and contrivances of the age and escaped reality and restriction to Trianon whenever she could.
The Queen's Confession illuminated the naivete of the young queen Marie Antoinette, and the corrupt, decadent French court where she was placed after her marriage.
Marie Antoinette was often seduced by luxurious living and material things, even as she struggled against these temptations.
Both Marie Antoinette and her husband Louis XVI were too immature to understand the complex and dangerous politics of their French court, the deep problems facing their country, or to even realize their impending doom before it was too late.
Following the brutality of the French revolution, Marie Antoinette was led to her execution where she faced her death bravely.
Read this as a tween in a Reader's Digest condensed book. Marie Antoinette's fictional autobiography of her childhood in Vienna, marriage to the French Dauphin, ascension to the throne as Queen of France, and the revolution which dissolved the monarchy. Story ends as she is imprisoned and waiting for her execution. When I checked I couldn't believe it was written in 1968 - writing is just as clean and clear as if it had been written today during the explosion in the historical fiction genre.
The Queen's Confession is not like the rest of Victoria Holt's work, I think this title would be better published under her other pen name, Jean Plaidy.
I probably almost stopped reading this novel no less than 10 times, simply because you don't need to be a history buff to know the fate of the French Queen and I felt I was growing attached.
If you're a fictional history fan and don't need white-knuckled adventure at every turn, you will probably enjoy Queen's Confession.
I really enjoyed this book and was pleasantly surprised to find that Victoria Holt can write a good historical fiction novel.
Usually she sticks in the historical romance!
Of course, I am not a researcher who has studied a lot on this subject but I really think she got a bum rap in her plight!
She may have been bubble-headed and "flighty." She probably was horrible with finances but she was not taught any differently.
I think the people of France were realy unfair to her and any queen at this point in history would have probably ended up beheaded and detested.
Most of what I know about history I read in a book and none of it from school. Some are straight forward factual tomes; others, such as The Queen’s Confession, reveal the details through fictional tales. I read this some years ago and was engrossed. When I finally travelled to France and visited Versailles I made a point of heading down to the Petit Trianon and Queen’s Hamlet. Memories of the Victoria Holt’s novel came flooding back.
One of the reasons I liked the book so much is because it told a lot more than I ever knew about Yolande de Polastron, the Countess of Jules de Polignac. I am interested in her because she is an ancestress of mine. I had not realized how badly her friendship with Marie Antoinette was distorted by the common people of France.
This is the story of Marie Antoinette. This is a historical novel about her life and death. I was extremely educated about Marie and the history of the late 1700s. Victoria writes in first person.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
This book was good. I did like Abundance better though. I did not appreciate Holt's idea of making Fersen and Marie lovers as there is no real proof of that, and I would have like much more dialog on Madame Royale. but as it was I really enjoyed it. I had a hard time putting it down actually.
This is a fictional autobiography of Marie Antoinette. A GREAT read! It made me want to learn more about the real her.
I felt it was all 20/20 hindsight - it inferred Marie Antoinette caused the results because she did not listen to the "omens"
Wow! Am I the last person the realize Jean Plaidy is also Victoria Holt??!!
This novel, by Victoia Holt had me at page one! I was greatly intrigued reading the story of Marie Antionette and her journey from adolescence, and a life in Austria, to her sad, and tragic demise under the guillotine, as France's Queen. Based on historical information, such as letters written by Marie Antionette and her closest allies, Holt tells this story in ways that reveal the horrors of the Reign of Terror, that eventually replaced the Age of Reason, in France's history. Enjoy this historical novel.
This book is unlike any of Victoria Holt's books I have read in that it is a historical fiction/autobiography of Marie Antoinette written as if she were writing it.
It tells the story of the royal 14 year old who was promised to the future king of France, their glorious years of splendor as king and queen of France, and the untimely ending of both the king and queen during the Terror in France.
She lists sources at the end of the book that she used so it was well researched.
I enjoyed the book and recommend it to anyone who is interested in that period of history.
Written with extracts of her own diaries and letters,made it that much more interesting to read.
Not only do we learn of Marie but of Louis and the strange traditions forced upon Royalty at the time.
Before I read this I had different views on this particular King and Queen.I realize this book was written from Marie's perspective but when studying history, that is often a perspective that is not shown.
And I agree with both her and Louis when they say they were too young to rule.
I think they were both much too young to be married and much too young and ignorant to rule.
I read an abridged version of this book when I was a pre-teen, leaving me with a life-long desire to visit Versailles.
In the spring of 2013, I was finally able to see Versailles and visit the Petite Trianon; preparing for this trip, I ordered a copy of this book and re-read it.
Overall, it is not a terrible book, but it is also not as engaging as I remember it being when I was twelve.
The story is, of course, well known, but something is lost hearing Marie A.
tell the story herself in her voice.
A very poignant tale of a princess destined for the throne of France.
From a flighty impulsive teenager Marie becomes a mature women who is in love with her husband.
It is a fictional account yet somehow I felt that the author has captured the very essence of Marie's character.
The point where she confesses that she and Louis would have dealt well if they were mere husband and wife instead of the royal personages.I read this book many years ago, yet I remember many of its passages vividly right up to the queen's beheading.
A fantastic book for those who love history.
I first read the condensed version of this book when I was about 12 years old.
I loved it and immediately became hooked on knowing more about Marie Antoinette, Louis XVI, French history, and France in general.
Many years later I was able to travel to France and see Versailles and the Petit Trianon, where Marie spent so much of her time.
I remember the feeling I got being there, and I literally cried as I descended the staircase and touched the railing.
Thank you, Mrs. Holt...it was all thanks to your lovely book.
Too young to become Queen of France; still a teenager.
No one taught her how to rule as a queen.
Even her husband, King Louis XVI, was still a teen and did not know how to rule.
So many obstacles to overcome, too many sorrows to bear, too much the 2 young rulers didn't know.Victoria Holt made you feel as though you were right there with Marie every step of her life.
My kleenex box was close at hand toward the end of this book.
I learned a lot about Marie, King Louis XVI, and the French people from this book.

I've previously read a Jean Plaidy novel and enjoyed it very much, so was really looking forward to this. The Queen's Confession is a fictional autobiography of Marie Antoinette. Holt portrays her in a very childish and naive manner. I sometimes sympathised with Marie but truth be told, I mainly wanted to shake her by the shoulders and tell her to grow up. It was well researched, with a bibliography at the back to see where Holt got all her information about Marie.
Very interesting to see the advent of the French Revolution through the eyes of Marie Antoinette. It is amazing just how blind she seemingly is to the events of what are supposed to be her people, but given that she is taken from her home to be queen of another country, it's sympathizable to an extent.
LOved it. Great way to see into this period of history in this fake autobiog by Marie Antoinette. It was quite accurate in terms of events and letters. Victoria HOlt is ALWAYS good for history....and for romance too. This one took the cake in both categories. This author is better than the one that writes about all the Boleyn women, I think.
A must-have for fans of history! Classic in its genre, no book is so truthful or poignant about the real Queen Marie Antoinette, from her spoiled childhood to her flamboyant days as queen, filled with scandal, heartbreak, painful frustration of a loveless marriage and finally, the end of days. As she tells us, it is to live that takes courage, not to die.
My first and only historical fiction book, I originally read this the summer before 5th grade, have re-read it a couple of times since, understanding some of the more adult themes...I did a book report for this, got an A, but I think my teacher was a little shocked when I wrote about how Louis could not consummate the marriage...LOL!!! I love this account of Marie Antoinette's life...
