https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32507.Chasing_the_Dime
The guy is coming in for a dog and pony show, at the end of which, hopefully, he will write a huge check in return for a small stake in the company.Unhappily, though, only a few days before the demonstration, Pierce breaks up with his girlfriend and moves out of the house they shared.
(This is, obviously, back in the day when people still had land lines, and besides, Henry really doesn't trust these new-fangled cell phones.) Henry arrives at his new apartment, plugs in his phone, and immediately begins getting calls for a woman named Lilly.
I never, ever, ever thought I would put a Michael Connelly book down.
I love Michael Connelly and have raved on about both his series, Harry Bosch and Mickey Haller but either one of them have more sense in their little finger than this guy has in his entire head.
I don't know and don't care but if I see it again, I'll recognize it and will put the book down.Michael Connelly is still a bright, shining light writer.
This hic-cup of a book will not stop my reading everything out there he's written that I haven't yet read.
He reminds me of Harry Bosch and Mickey Haller.
Ok read! too far-fetched of a storyline to believed...M.Connelly could have done better and has because there are many of his excellent and well written books out there,this just isnt one of them (paperback!)
A normal guy might wait until Monday and call the phone company to change the number, but all these calls make Henry curious.
He wants to contact Lilly to tell her to change her web site phone number.
Now Henry is worried about her and wants to make sure “she is ok.”REVIEWER’S OPINION:The author is a good writer, but I cannot recommend this book.
For most of the book I was saying “This guy is stupid.
Lucy a prostitute gets beaten by thugs because she helped Henry.
I could not enjoy a story about this man doing so many stupid things.The last hour or so of the book was better.
Un thriller di buon livello atipico per Connelly, dato che che non appartiene né alla serie Bosh né alla serie Haller.
Con assoluta precisione di movimenti il piccolo gangster puntò l’arma e cominciò a far fuoco, e sparando avanzava, con il tamburo della pistola che descriveva un arco a ogni colpo.La pistola è evidentemente un revolver, ma una pagina dopo si è trasformata in una automatica: C’era silenzio intorno, poi gli giunse uno schiocco dalla parte opposta della stanza.
Non aveva molta esperienza di armi, ma dalla direzione del suono capì che Wentz ricaricava o controllava il numero dei proiettili che gli restavano
That, of course, means a new land line, and Pierce starts to get phone messages for someone named Lilly.
Pierce quickly figures out that Lilly is a prostitute, but how did he get her number?
Will he destroy everything he's worked for in the process?This book is definitely a departure for Michael Connelly, featuring an everyman and bordering on a technothriller.
It starts out well with plenty of intrigue, but it gets bogged down in the second half.
Pierce's reasons for getting as involved as he does are reasonable, but we don't find out until the end.
I like Connelly's Harry Bosch series, and the Lincoln Lawyer has its charm. So did Blood Work.The protagonist in this one, Henry Pierce, left me cold. Erratic, old, lacking the passion you'd expect. The first half seemed slow because of the character. But fortunately Connelly bound and solved the story together elegantly towards the end. Still, this and The Outlook are so far my two least favorite books of his. If this was your first Connelly, try some old Harry Bosch books. Ideally in order...
Henry Pierce is a start-up high tech entrepreneur who has created molecular RAM, the engine that will power the next generation of computers.
Chasing the Dime would be a perfect two-sitting book if you could devote the time.
Henry Pierce, CEO of Amedeco Technologies, and his team of scientists have finally perfected molecular ram, made possible by advances in nanotechnology.
The number belonged to a popular girl, and Henry is besieged with calls from her former clients before he begins searching for her, only to be cleverly implicated in her disappearance and likely death.
We've read enough of Connelly's work (both Bosch series and standalone crime thrillers) to understand that he can plot with the best of them, can write cogent scenes, and invent a tale gripping enough to maintain entertainment and suspense.
Despite a predominance of seedy characters, those good qualities can all be found in "Dime" -- it's just one of his weaker works from the viewpoint that our doubt over the likelihood of any of this happening kept getting in the way of enjoying the tale.
I'll be honest...
I'm a little biased when it comes to my favorite authors.
Michael Connelly is one of my favorite authors.
The reason I say I'll be honest is because I wanted to give this book 2 stars because the main character just kept making me upset.
The story hooks from the beginning.
But I, like other readers, could not understand what was motivating the protagonist to find this woman who's number he was given accidentally.
Had it not been for the ending, I would have felt this book was a total wash.
Thankfully, Connelly didn't let me down and wrote a book that had me hooked from page one.
I can't improve on what's been said and written about CHASING THE DIME. It worked for me. Quite well, in fact. Maybe the geeky protag put off some readers. Great pacing and tension stood out. I'm hooked on the stand alones.
An almost perfect mystery novel.
A good thriller from Connelly, as our hero gets gradually sucked into a dangerous set of circumstances after he inherits a phone number from a missing girl - and into a situation which starts to threaten his groundbreaking scientific research business
good change of pace book from Michael Connelly. ...it follows an everyman a la Hitchcock's North by Northwest. ..anything else would spoil it.
4.25 Stars, another great Bosch story.
This stand-alone Bosch Universe novel, while very entertaining and enjoyable, is towards the end of Connelly's canon for me. This was the case most likely because it was very dated by the molecular computing tech on which it's centered... making it borderline cheesy at parts. However, it all faded quickly in light of Connelly being Connelly and its writing still being engrossing. There were enough twists to keep me guessing my theories but not too many to be lame. Henry Pierce was likable but compared with other Bosch characters, I can see why this is a stand-alone.Solid B.
Amazon's review sums up the plot: "Henry Pierce is about to become very rich--as soon as his firm, Amedeo Technologies, gets an infusion of capital from a big backer.
His new telephone number seems to have previously belonged to one Lilly Quinlan, an escort whose Internet photo arouses Henry's curiosity, especially when L.A. Darlings, whose Web page features the beautiful young woman, can't tell Henry how to find her." I read quickly through every word of Connelly's Harry Bosch novels, but only made halfway through this one before starting to guess what was coming next, and skimming to find out if I was right.
Protaganist Pierce is just not as interesting as Bosch, and the plot wasn't as tight as Connelly's usual.
That half page where he explains to me how the dimmer settings work in a car really pisses me off.
"You see there are three settings.
Pierce opened his door but the dome light did not come on....Pierce knows he left it on that other setting where the light just comes on when the door is opened.
Somebody must have bumped the switch to change it to that one setting where the light doesn't come on ever." An intruder was in his car!!!!!!!!
Picked up some ineterest but not till the last 50 pages.
I'd like to see some of this author's more recent works.
This one seems half baked, rushed to the shelves.
I listened to this book and I found it to be quick and enjoyable.
It was a fast-moving story with some unexpected twists.
It was frustrating at times when the protagonist made some really stupid mistakes.
Actually, his big mistake was probably getting too involved in the first place, but that's what made the story.
I am still not sure why he got involved initially but the ending pulled it all together and explained why this might have happened.I guess I am a fan of this author and enjoy his writing style so I will continue to read his books.
One of the best stand alone novels out there. He certainly chased that dime. This was certainly better than Void Moon.
After breaking up with Nicole, the intelligence officer of his company, he moves into a new apartment only to discover that his new phone number is the same as that of a call girl’s website.
Troubled by the killing of his sister many years before — a detail that does not initially explain his obsession with the case, but read on — he plays detective and learns troubling information about the girl’s disappearance.
Pierce becomes more and more enmeshed in the case, and, as evidence pointing to his own culpability surfaces, the police start to wonder if he himself is not responsible for the girl’s death.
That's right.)Now, I get that part of the whole point of this book was that the hero--Harry Pierce--has no criminal or law enforcement background at all.
And yet.The fact is that I have never smacked myself in the forehead so many times while reading a book as I have while forcing myself to the end of this one.
no.I just checked Wikipedia to confirm: Henry Pierce "is the only Connelly character who has never appeared in a Harry Bosch novel (in fact he has not appeared in any other Connelly novel)." Thank goodness.
Something that seems quite tame and perhaps dry on paper comes alive when this master storyteller breathes life into it.When our main character begins getting phone calls to his new telephone number obviously meant for the former number's owner, he cannot let it go.
He MUST get to the bottom of this, if only to ensure the sex trade worker's calls stop coming to him.
Connelly delves deep into the world of the online sex trade business with a side of nano-technology to come up with this excellent thriller.
no, GREAT WORK Mr. Connelly.
After several chapters, I just couldn't live through the boredom anymore.
The plot dragged like molasses and the main character was just plain annoying.
I suppose it might have picked up eventually considering the average rating on Goodreads is four stars, but I just couldn't be bothered to wade through anymore of the boredom.
It's funny--I used to think that once I started reading a book, I somehow had this obligation to finish it even if I wasn't enjoying it.
Ever since then, once I feel like I've given a book a fair chance, if it hasn't justified itself to me--back on the shelf it goes!
A young inventor, with a new product that is about to change the world, has been dumped by his girlfriend, also working for the same company he and a friend have started.
From then on his whole world goes wrong, he is accused of murdering the call girl, he finds that some one is setting him up big time, not only will he go to jail for murder, but he will lose his company.
The police are hot on his trail, he is about to lose his product and business, and at last he twigs who has set him up.
Enjoyed this book, thought it had a nice twist at the end which I didn't see coming!
Not my favorites of all of the MIchael Connelly's books. It was still good and worth reading.
It's was quite the story about good and the bad. But as always the good won as always. Its was over money as always. The conquest of computer invention.
Michael Connelly's Chasing the Dime is another of his crime detection novels set in Los Angeles without a recurring character.
The novel I had read earlier, Void Moon, was, I felt, better because of the character of Cassie Black.
Henry Pierce, the scientist/executive of Amedeo Technologies, is neither as sympathetic or even as smart as Cassie Black.
"Fools rush in where angels fear to tread." Although Pierce manages to extricate himself, I felt he shouldn't have gotten himself in so deep to begin with.Where Connelly excels is in unraveling a highly complicated set of circumstances and bringing everything together in one climactic scene.

