https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/702086.Carbonel
We loved this story of Rosemary, who hopes to buy a broom to help her mother earn money by cleaning over the summer holidays, and accidentally comes away with a witches broom and Carbonel, the King of the Cats.
There was some wonderful humour from Carbonel, who's voice we could hear when the broom was held.
The end battle/culmination was less interesting to us than the everyday happenings.
There is a sad part near the end were the broom unknowingly (view spoiler)[gets put on a bonfire (hide spoiler)]
It's going to be sad when John goes home, when school is back on and most of all when they aren't working for something that matters like setting Carbonel free.
I liked best of all that acknowledging that kind of feeling was a way of feeling more alive about the good thing while it was happening.
You don't get to be Carbonel and it feels good wishing you could be (like when it's time to go to work).The ending claims that the witch is a reformed dishwasher.
I remember this from primary school, junior section so I was about 9/10 - the edition above says 2005, but it's close to what I remember - would have been 1980. It was so good - stuck in my head. Must read.
Although I gave this a 4 at the time it should probably be lower, as I just read the sequel without remembering this book or the characters in the least.
Barbara Sleigh belongs to this era, and her Carbonel series is a wonderful trilogy of books about the King of the Cats and his adventures with some British children who through various magical means can understand his language.
"Carbonel" is the first of the series.
With all the other claims on kid's attention, who will read them these long, leisurely, wonderful tales from another era?
At least The New York Review of Books has done parents and kids a huge service by bringing out these beautifully printed and illustrated editions of classics that do not deserve to be forgotten.
This was a favorite book from my childhood, and it's still excellent 40 years later. I just ordered it for my own daughter, who just loves cats. (We have three.) Even though she's 15, she still loved reading Carbonel: The King of Cats. I'm so pleased that it's back in print! Some children's books are so good that you don't have to be young to enjoy them. This is one.
Carbonel and its sequel were among my favorite books at the library when I was about 9-12.
I completed my set, and now I'm reading through them from the beginning.[return][return]Young Rosemary plans on cleaning houses to make her summer break pass by.
To make things worse, his now-dead father's kingdom is in disarray with cruel usurping alley cats in charge, and Carbonel cannot take his rightful throne as a human's minion.
Rosemary and her new friend John set out to solve the mystery and set the cat free by hunting out the artifacts used in the original spell.[return][return]This book is just as magical as when I first read in twenty years ago.
I loved all of the characters, and it is consistently funny, well-written, and action packed.
Every character has a unique voice, and most have a funny way of saying things.
I'm so glad this is only the first in a series of 3 novels, because I want to read more about Carbonel, Rosemarie and John.I realize I can't read all the NYRB Classics, so I've a mind to read all the NYRB Children's books instead, since there are considerably less of them.
This was only my second in this series, hopefully I'll reach my goal one day!
Very nice ordinary magic story, but it seemed a little too long. There was the curious idea of not describing things by saying, "I'm not going to describe this food - just think of the most wonderful meal you can imagine." Quite the opposite of Elizabeth Goudge in The Little White Horse: Collector's Edition where everything gets described in mouthwatering detail.
Dated, simple adventure fantasy. No real wisdom, resonance, or poignancy... or humor, for that matter. Everything kinda just falls into place: the children always have just enough pocket change, they never bicker, Carbonel is meant to be leader by right of Birth (which, you know, grates on my American sensibilities just too much), the rich lady is kind, the mother is patient, etc. Ok fine. Let's move along to Nesbit or Eager or Farjeon, all right?
I remember reading this book when I was 7 or 8. Ah, those lovely days when books were not dumbed-down for children. No wonder we were such good readers. A lovely story, I enjoyed it very much the second-time 'round.

I read this book when I was 11, found it in the Long-side public library, Manchester, UK.
It was an amazing adventure this one, not just because it starred a little girl and her cat, but because the adventures they had were crazy and fun.
I have to read it once more.
I always wanted to read the sequels, but never found them, now I'll have to look for the e-books.Update on 4th read: 25/08/2017Wow!
♥♥♥♥♥It felt sooooo good to read the parebook!
Yeyy!Have ordered the other two sequels which I will receive in September hopefully!
I loved this book and am happy to hear it's back in print. My current cat goes by the sobriquet "Huckle, King of All the Cats" and I knew it came from a book, but couldn't remember... here it is. :-)***Re-read 05/2009Carbonel is just as crochety and (shhhh) adorable as I remembered him being. What a wonderful story for cat people everywhere.
ENGLISH: A nice story (first of a series) about the black cat of a witch which turns to be the long-lost child of the king of the cats in London.
There is some magic (not too much) while the cat and his human friends (two ten-years children) try to undo the spell of the witch against her cat.ESPAÑOL: Una bonita historia (primera de una serie) sobre el gato negro de una bruja, que resulta ser el hijo perdido del rey de los gatos de Londres.
Hay algo de magia (no demasiada), mientras el gato y sus amigos humanos (dos niños de diez años) intentan deshacer el hechizo de la bruja contra su gato.
He is Carbonel, kidnapped cat royalty, and he needs her help to break the curse upon him.I'd never heard of this until I spotted it randomly and picked it up, intrigued by the lovely cover illustration of a little girl on a flying broom with a black cat, I am after all a sucker for a cat.
Super adorable, talking cats, flying brooms, magic spells, wacky but very English adventures, what is not to love?
During the summer holidays, while her mother is sewing at the house of the wealthy Mrs Pendlebury Parker, Rosemary decides to set herself up as a cleaner to help out financially.
Rosemary has broken part of the enchantment, but not all of it, and she and Mrs Pendlebury Parker's nephew, John, set out to break it.This is still a great read.
Part of the joy of the book is the freedom that 1950s children had: Rosemary and John buy and cook sausages on a gas ring and take the bus to a local cathedral town to find Mrs Cantrip's cauldron, as well as other unsupervised adventures.
The girl, Rosemary, continues to perform more favors for the cat when she enlists the help of John and the two of them endeavor to free Carbonel from his bonds once and for all.This is a pleasant and old-fashioned book that I quite enjoyed.
The young heroes encounter very few problems in the story, but the nostalgic charm is what really makes the book worth reading.
I'm not sure any kids today (yikes, I sound old) would like this book, but an old soul would probably find it quite endearing.
B., age 10: I liked it pretty well but I wish the broom could have lived because it was my favorite character. I want to read the other books in the series.I thought the book was written at a nice pace and featured a good balanced between fantasy and reality. I would have liked it better if Carbonel was a more likable character - but he was really aloof at best and sometimes pretty mean.
Sunday afternoons reading children's books at my mums house are just proper lovely. Today I chose Carbonel about the Prince of Cats and his adventures with Rosemary and John to free him from a binding Silent Magic spell so he can reclaim his throne. I'm miserable at the moment but this charming little story put a smile on my face this sunny Autumn day.
A delightful series!
A gentle British fantasy originally published in 1955. A good hearted little girl's new pet turns out to be a former witch's cat, enslaved by a spell. Rosemary, her friend John, and the talking cat Carbonel rush around London gathering the items needed to break the spell. I enjoyed their adventures and the story earns 3 stars from me. Carbonel earns a fourth. His independent, sarcastic, yet affectionate personality is exactly right.
I remember loving the Carbonel books as a kid, so I was excited to get this to read with my 7 year old, but it wasn't quite as engaging as I remembered and was a little too slow and old-fashioned to interest my son.. it took us nearly a year to get through!
I never read this series as a child and I'm sorry I missed it.
I really enjoyed this one, the first in the series.
The characters were all well developed and believable - well - as believable as owning a magic broom and a talking cat can be - and for being written in 1955 it is not nearly as dated as it might be.
It's a sweet and simple story, the magic gentle and non-violent.
Они могут делать в них что угодно (разговаривать, враждовать с другими кланами, детективничать, быть серийными убийцами), я все равно буду упорно про них читать.
Люблю иллюстрации, и подолгу пялюсь на них, когда они встречаются в тексте.
К счастью, я его только что выстирала.Смотрю на иллюстрацию – и вижу однотонное розовое платье ._.
И что на свете бывает только белое и черное, а все остальное – это серая масса побочных персонажей.
Никто не говорит про Гарри Поттера, но вот так безыскусно это обставить оО Ни слова о том, кто владеет колдовством – судя по всему, любой дурак, который вычитает рецепт в старинной книжке.
Скууучно.Есть еще две книги как продолжение, но за них вряд ли возьмусь.
Rosie needs a broom and goes to an open air market to find one.
All she can find is an old twig broom.
Carbonel is a witch's cat and under a silent magic spell.
Rosie is his way to undo the spell so he can reclaim his father's throne as Kind of the Cats.Along the way Rosie and Carbonel team up with John.
Along the way they meet many interesting people.This is a very British book but fun for everyone to read.
It does reflect life from a previous but modern time in London.The book is a fast, easy read.
A humble, hardworking, polite, kind girl makes all the right decisions and gets a lovely adventure attempting to break the spell that is binding a talking cat - with the use of a flying broom, and a magic kettle & hat.
She gets help from a sweet but clearly secondary boy, and both of them use ingenuity, good instincts, and a ready, willing alacrity to help others.
The medium-length chapter book with occasional b&w illustrations does not drag, and wraps up in a very satisfactory way.
A delightful and very British children's chapter book about a girl and her magic cat. Not weighed down with a lot of morality, the children are allowed to be children, getting cross with one another, subjected to bullies, and playing games in between their adventures to return the cat to his rightful throne. The peril is just enough to keep young readers interested, and some words and phrases American parents and children alike will need to look up, but that's half the fun!
The characters in this children's storybook all have and act according to conscience. Rosemary, the primary character, behaves generously despite her poverty. She works tirelessly to release the magical cat Carbonel from a spell that enslaves him to her. The fantasy elements of talking animals and magic add an extra dimension.
A re-read of a childhood favourite that provided just as much enjoyment as it always has. Such a wonderful story should never be forgotten and resigned to be read by only children.Also, how did I only just discover that it's a series? I spent my whole childhood thinking this was a great little stand alone book, when I could have been reading more about the Kingdom of Cats!
