https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7171732-the-orange-revolution

I think what made it especially good was I read it with my fabulous team and it cemented with research (350,000 people) what I have always believed - that success comes mainly from teams.
It is something my entire team is passionate about and I think made it especially wonderful to read this book together as a team.In this book, Chester and Adrian take what they've culled from thousands and thousands of survey's and the condense it into some simple principles and nuggets of wisdom.
It's now been a year and we are well on our way to becoming a team that will literally transform the entire organization.
I left my last job for a host of reasons--poor management, aggressive and mean-spirited "teammates" (I've learned to use that word more lightly after reading Orange Revolution), and a lack of clarity around goals or mission areas (or, really, any transparency about what anyone was doing, at any job level of the team, at any point in time).
I really appreciate that this book understands that a high-functioning team is easy to achieve in any work environment--while it does require some investment in time and team buy-in, it requires little in regards to company resources.
This was a great read. It wasn't a read that I kept telling myself I couldn't put down, though. While the text is definitely geared toward the business world, creative thinking throughout your reading will allow the reader to adapt the concepts to any organization. I think that is why I had to read a little, then think a little, then read some more, then think some more...you get the picture.
Great examples of the importance of recognition in the workplace.
However, the authors went one step further to introduce The Rule of 3:~ Wow (commit to a standard of world-class performance)~ No surprises (all team members are accountable and each member knows what to expect from the others)~ Cheer (team members cheer others and the group on to victory)An additional chapter lists 101 Ways to Bring Your Team Together.While this additional information is useful and practical it tends to distract from the core message of The Basic 4 + Recognition.Bottom line: We all work harder when someone is paying attention to our efforts.
If you are a member of a team, pay attention -- daily.
Though the fundamental principles of "Orange" are rather obvious---that is, recognition and strong communication are the basis of exemplary teams---these topics are treated over and over in management books for good reason: lots of managers ignore them.
So, while Orange is certainly not groundbreaking, it's good to be reminded of just how much can be accomplished when we intentionally make time to communicate with each other: listening, recognizing talent, praising good work, and talking about shared goals.
The Orange Revolution is one of the first books that I read which addresses building powerful teams.
These powerful teams thrive even in hostile work environments.
The key points I gathered about creating an influential team are create an environment for honest communication, encourage team mates in their roles and serve people beyond their expectations (e.g. hand written notes of appreciation).
I have to confess when the authors mentioned Zappos I rolled my eyes.
This is because Zappos is mentioned in the last five books on business, marketing, etc.
I have read.
Gostick and Elton discussed the team perspective of Zappos and just displayed another competative advantage to their business model.
Originally wrote: “I read the Carrot Principle a while back and saw this new book by the same crowd advertised all over Atlanta airport – so I thought I’d give it a try.
A well written book packed with very, very useful information about team dynamics and how the best companies get it right.
Lots of data included that seems obvious to me know, but only once it was pointed out.This is one of the few books that will definitely (and positively) alter the way I work with everyone around me.
Good ideas and team philosophies, but they seemed kind of obvious/duh to me; maybe I've just always worked on good teams? Many of the things that they suggest in this book are either things that are already happening in my organization or things that I have literally no control over.I listened to this one and I'm pretty sure the authors narrated it - they definitely think that they are maybe more hilarious than they actually are. Could also use some better editing for some weird breathing parts.
If you've talked to me about work lately, you've probably heard me talk about this one.I think it's great - practical, understandable, and one that anyone - manager or not - can start putting into practice.The central message is to start focusing on 3 things: Wowing your patrons and co-workers, having continuous open and honest communication, and cheering each other on.The authors have lots of research to indicate that having these 3 things in place will affect staff engagement, innovative ideas, and the bottom line.An excellent book that I will likely re-read again and again.
This has some really great ideas.
You don't need to be a team leader in order to get benefit from it -- in fact, one of the main thrusts of the book is the Power Of Everyone.
Are there ideas that I actually plan to implement?
I don't know.
But one that it reminded me to do more of was recognition.
I already believed that recognition was critical for a healthy, well-functioning team, but got busy and wasn't giving it the attention it deserved, work-wise.
I therefore re-recognize the need for recognition and am endeavoring to recognize my coworkers/reports more often.
Overall a really good book. I actually flipped between reading the hardcover and listening to the audio book.As for the content (which is what I used for my rating), it was pretty solid. From the title, it seems as if the book will cover transforming an organization from an orange team. That being said, what the book does cover, it covers very well and in a fast-paced, straightforward manner.About me: I'm a member of a "breakthrough team" and not in management.
How can you rally team members around a common cause and make amazing things happen in your organization? By using "Wow", "No Surprises", and "Cheer"! Great stories in this book like Zappos.com and the Blue Angels. I totally agree that for people to be committed and perform at their best, they need to feel trusted, excited, and motivated and that's what this book shares. Fairly easy read. There's even a whole chapter on ideas to kickstart your team to becoming an "orange" breakthrough team.
I received this book from my boss. He gave it to our entire 19-person team. The Orange Revolution is chock-full of great ideas. I'm glad I own the copy, because I needed to underline, circle, and dog-ear passages. It's definitely a book that I will keep close by and refer to in making decisions and implementing ideas. A must-have for any person or company interested in robust communications and a strong corporate environment.
This book has some good concepts and examples of how companies have implemented them. You will be able to find something applicable. However, they have taken some very basic concepts and tried to sexy them up with their new lingo to give it a new marketing spin. They have the same basic concepts as a dozen other books on organizational behavior. All in all a descent book that you should be able to find something you can use within your organization.
This book seemed to be like a rehash of previously identified principles of teamwork, forced into a diagram that is anything but intuitive or simple. There are also some statements made that I believe contradict other findings from books I find more enjoyable and more intuitive.If you want great books on creating great teams, I recommend "The Performance Factor", and then for motivating those teams "DRiVE".Don't bother with this one.
Great book...reading some more of the series now, but lots of good examples of how great teams deliver. One interesting story is how in the 80's (if I remember correctly) Black & Decker was doing daily standups where each person on the team discussed what they did in the last 24hrs, what they were going to work on next, and any impediments. Sound familiar???
TCL Call#: 658.4022 Gostick AMadeleine - 4 starsI need to admit right off the bat that I did not finish this book (yet!). I got 1/3 of the way in and decided I needed to read its predecessor The Carrot Principal. But I thought the ideas presented were do-able without being repetitive of other business books I've read. Will edit review when I've finished it!
I got to hear Mr. Elton speak at a conference I attended. Much of his talk does come from this book. However, given what inspirational and useful information he delivered rapid fire at that conference, finding this book is a godsend. Now I can listen to it at my leisure and start applying his ideas with more conscious effort.
Adrian does a good job highlighting how few teams are truly high performing and the importance of shared vision towards success. There were several items I could take right back to my organizational coaching work and apply to teams. The book did drag a little and was too focused on case studies for my liking.
Full of useful tips and ideas and also incredibly hard to wade through. Maybe it would have been easier as an audiobook.(P.S. all of it is more like 'how to make great teams that will transform the organization'-- if you have a great team and can't figure out how to move the other teams in the organization it's not as helpful.)
The authors present a model for building and sustaining high performance work team. Examples and research conducted by Best Companies Group are used throughout to provide context and applicability to various types of work environments.
Good info, but like most books of this genre, it could have been shorter. I appreciated the structure of the book, though, because it'll be easy to skim back through the chapter titles and headers to remind myself of key concepts when the time comes.
Got some good tidbits and inspiration from this book, but the whole "wow" factor was cheesy and annoying. Apparently Zappos actually espouses this "wow" philosophy which I find creepy.
Traz um mindset muito interessante sobre empresas e trabalho em equipe. Exagera no otimismo em alguns pontos, mas é bem interessante.
Good book on team building. Extremely thorough, filled with great ideas.
seems like more of the same as his first - the Carrot Principle. Interesting "Feel good" Stories though
So far (halfway) I'm not finding it altogether revolutionary. Teams are composed of different types of people. Effective teams trust each other and communicate.
Lots of great ideas and illustrations of how companies are making it work.
