https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4201106-a-rule-against-murder
Previously on Goodreads, my review for book 3You know?These are really growing on me.Thanks, Mom!So, here's a stupid conversation I had with my mom last week while we were sitting in the waiting room between doctor's appointments.Me: "Oh, hey, I'm listening to the next Louise Penny book."Mom (perks up): "Which one?"Me: "It's either the fourth or the fifth.
I don't know what else happens, yet, I'm not that far in so I can't tell you anything else, but I'm sure you've read it."We look at Jim. He shakes his head and shrugs.Mom: "Well...I haven't read these in order.
Number 4 in the series and I actually enjoyed it a little less than the first three.
Or it may be because the book itself was a little weaker than the earlier ones.Armand Gamache was his usual charming self and this time his charming wife was very much in evidence too.
In the end the how was explained perfectly, the why was a little weak.Nevertheless I enjoyed the whole thing and I am still keen to continue with the series.
I think I have many more excellent books ahead of me:)
Louise Penny’s Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series continues to get better as I binge my way through the collection.
Highly recommended for the reader who likes ‘quaint’, yet intense, mysteries full of Canadiana.Louise Penny makes a reader’s full commitment to the stories and characters quite easy.
This personalisation by Penny will likely prove highly important, as the series reader will want to know as much as possible in order to fill much of the as yet unknown early years in Gamache’s life.
Penny touches on some of the Homicide squad, as they continue to appear in the series.
This year is their thirty-fifth.The Gamaches are sharing the inn with the wealthy and toxic Finney family, who have their annual family reunion at Manoir Bellechasse.
She doesn't like them, although she adores her husband Peter.The Gamaches' idyllic and relaxing retreat at Manoir Bellechasse is interrupted by--what else?--a suspicious death.The body of the beautiful Julia Martin, one of the Morrow sisters, turns up on the grounds of Manoir Bellechasse, next to the newly installed statue which is a memorial to the late Charles Morrow, Julia's estranged father.
I began reading this book with high expectations. It had received a lot of praise and high ratings. So naturally I was eager to unravel its mysteries. But unfortunately, it was a letdown. I am not sure whether the author was trying to write a crime thriller or a family drama. I would not call this a thriller, as there is no thrill. None what so ever. There were a few good points and a lot of bad points which made me give this book 2 stars. SPOILER ALERTS!!! POSITIVE POINTS 1. Setting. The protag
I am not sure whether the author was trying to write a crime thriller or a family drama.
Instead we get to read about a dysfunctional family which is dysfunctional for no particular reason.
We read about the good inspector and his family, including completely pointless flashbacks of his father who is supposedly a coward.
The character of Bean himself draws attention to him/herself only to disappoint readers that he/she was of no particular significance other than proving a philosophical point and a roof top ending.3.
But as a crime mystery this was a letdown.
I'm mad at Louise Penny because of book #5 in the Three Pines/Chief Inspector Gamache mysteries, and I want to take it out on her now, but in fairness I just can't.
I thought that moving the action out of Three Pines would make me grumpy, but instead it made me feel, more than ever, that I want to live in Three Pines because Manoir Bellechasse is close for those times I need to get away from the hectic hustle and bustle of Three Pines (snort).The Gamaches seem so at home in the splendid, isolated Manoir, with its beautiful robber-baron-era main building and its spectacular lake.
I suppose if my family still had money, we'd behave pretty much exactly like the Morrows, and I mean exactly, down to every detail of the action.
ABOUT THIS BOOK: "What happened here last night isn't allowed," said Madame Dubois.It was such an extraordinary thing to say it stopped the ravenous Inspector Beauvoir from taking another bite of his roast beef on baguette."You have a rule against murder?" he asked."I do.
When my husband and I bought the Bellechasse we made a pact....Everything that stepped foot on this land would be safe."It is the height of summer, and Armand and Reine-Marie Gamache are celebrating their wedding anniversary at Manoir Bellechasse, an isolated, luxurious inn not far from the village of Three Pines.
By disconnecting from their own truth, is not only the sanest thing to do under their circumstances, it is also the only way they could survive their own memories.The owner, staff and guests of Manoir Bellechasse, including Chief Inspector Gamache, are suddenly confronted with their own secrets and childhood memories.‘To have it all and to lose it.
While it ends with sorrow and sadness, the final item is revealed when the Pandora's box is opened at last.Ninety-five-year-old Mr. Finney summarizes the events and revelations by saying:  ‘You know what money buys?’ Gamache shook his head.
The author delivers another murder most unusual in this story.Armand and Reine-Marie Gamache are celebrating their 35th wedding anniversary at Manoir Bellechasse, an isolated, luxurious inn not far from the village of Three Pines.
This reunion will be different – the family is installing a statue of the patriarch Charles Morrow on the grounds of the resort.
In this story we learn about Peter Morrow and his family.
We also learn about Armand Gamache's father.
After I read a Armand Gamache novel I find myself thinking I would like to meet him (if he was real), I would like to visit Three Pines and after this novel avoid family reunions.
Seems I've never wrote a review about the 4th in Penny's Chief Inspector Armand Gamache. Oh well, there's plenty of other reviews. I do remember liking it as Three Pines is like coming home.
Louise Penny is a master in the murder mystery genre.
A Rule Against Murder, the fourth in her Chief Inspector Gamache series, takes us places in the minds of her characters like no other writer out there.
The setting for this book is different from her usual Three Pines.
Here we get to meet the Finneys for a family reunion, and an interesting one at that.
We meet a family full of abuse and cruelty for themselves and everyone around them.
Penny does so well at mixing crime and the beauty of the surroundings.Highly recommend this book and the series.5 out of 5 stars..
A wedding anniversary celebration for Armand and Reine-Marie and a family reunion at Manoir Bellechasse for the Morrow family bring Louise Penny's familiar characters back to beautiful Three Pines and along with the characters comes a murder.The Morrow family is known to not have much love for each other.
A thunderstorm brings a tragic surprise to mar the statue's meaning.A RULE AGAINST MURDER is another well-written book with Louise Penny's beautiful, detailed writing that puts you right into the book and the scenes.
Honeybees make an entrance into this grand world.
Когато четох дебютната книга на Луиз Пени  Убийството на художника, си признах, че в първата й третина се чудех защо си го причинявам и едва после я харесах достатъчно, за да продължа със серията.
Оттогава, в следващите две книги от серията за инспектор Гамаш Пени ставаше все по-добра, за да стигне до тази книга, която е...
Арман Гамаш, който още от втората книга престана да бъде просто разследващият инспектор, а герой с неподозирани страни и черти на характера, тук е завършен, многостранен и истински.
Изобщо, "Камъкът на смъртта" е не просто изящно криминале в духа на Сименон и Кристи, а богат на нюанси роман, чието четене беше чисто удоволствие.
3.5 rounded up. Three Pines was largely missing in this story, although in the same region. I found the resolution of this one a bit unsatisfactory for 2 reasons. One was that the motive was not entirely plausible. And secondly, while I love the psychological aspects of these books, I felt too long (about 3/4 of the book) was spent on a red herring.
To honor their late father there is a grand statue unveiling and (because this is book #4 of Louise Penny's series) naturally a dead body is also discovered at the scene.
As usual Gamache is dashing and wise as he and his team go about solving the case.These are fun easy to read books with a cast of rich characters that we're getting to know quite well by now.
Of the series so far this one is most like the good old who-dunnits I grew up with like the Nancy Drew Mysteries and Agatha Christie.
And I loved the deepening of his character in this book, especially the longer glimpse we got into his marriage and his family history.
He's just such a wonderful man and I love spending time with him.
I just love this series so, so much.
But, I still loved the book.
I can't wait to keep going.Also, I thought that the next overarching plot would be revealed in this book.
The last overarching plot was resolved in book 3 and I was under the impression that book 4 was when things really got going.
I've been hooked on Louise Penny's Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series since I read her debut novel, Still Life.
After all, how could even the talented Ms. Penny improve on A Rule Against Murder?One side note: The lovely resort in the novel, Manoir Bellechasse, is loosely based on the Manoir Hovey, a favorite with Louise Penny.
With this novel, Manoir Hovey should prepare itself for an influx of guests who've read about the fictional Manoir Bellechasse and want to experience the real one.
The mystery was perhaps not as interesting as in previous books in this series but that is completely overshadowed by getting to see the inner workings of Peter Morrow's family. I always thought he had some underlying issues with how jealous he could be of his wonderful wife Clara so this book explains a lot! Getting to learn more about Armand Gamache's family is a pleasant bonus. Love this series.
I've been lucky enough to read these wonderful mysteries during the time of year when they take place. The descriptions are so warm & cozy that I feel like I am right there with Chief Inspector Gamache, and we are working to solve the murder together. The next book in the series, The Brutal Telling, appears to take place in the fall so I will read it then.I was also able to learn a couple of things in this book: 1) Count your blessings. 2) Never use the first stall in a public restroom.
The daughter of the family is murdered by a fallen statue--how did the statue fall, and why was this woman, of all of them, the victim.Armand and his team solve this crime in their sensible, yet somewhat sensitive way--in that they try to be sensitive to the family, and the lodge's owner and staff.
The murderer came as a surprise to me (not unusual--unfortunately, I seem to learn nothing from all the mysteries I read :)), yet a another mystery remains unanswered at the end of the book--cool.
The Gamaches are staying at a beautiful lodge near Three Pines, of course, to celebrate their anniversary and, surprise, a murder takes place.
It's a member of this rich, constantly bickering family.
A couple from Three Pines show up, Clara and Peter Morrow, because Peter is a member of the awful dysfunctional family.
My main complaint about this book is the choice for the person who committed the murder.
Louise Penny obviously does not want us to be able to guess who the murderer is but her choice and reasoning makes no sense.
The reason this person committed murder is so far fetched and the ending so unbelievable.

One of the best in the series so far. We get a glimpse into the background of Chief Inspector Gamache as well as seeing Madame Gamache. The background to Peter Morrow was interesting as well. An inn - or auberge - is the setting. So you basically have an English Country House mystery set in the wilds of Quebec. Lovely. The mystery was well plotted - as usual - and the suspects were all very suspicious... down the odd girl/boy with the legumatic name. Great read!
Description: It is the height of summer, and Armand and Reine-Marie Gamache are celebrating their wedding anniversary at Manoir Bellechasse, an isolated, luxurious inn not far from the village of Three Pines.
The Finney family -- rich, cultured, and respectable -- has also arrived for a celebration of their own.The beautiful Manoir Bellechasse might be surrounded by nature, but there is something unnatural looming.
At first the Quebecois were resistant, having lived in the forest all their lives.This is the one with Bean, Spot, a summer storm, myriad flies and Les bourgeois de Calais by Rodin:I caught the 'how' early but the 'who' and 'why' had me struggling.
I must admit that Louise Penny is quickly becoming one of my very favorite mystery writers.
In "A Rule Against Muder," Chief Inspector Gamache and his wife are celebrating their anniversary at a cozy, wooded inn.
No, these stories are about Gamache and his character, how he became the man he is today that is so admired.
And in this story we learn a great deal about Gamache's past which is critical for understanding the man.
It was a great read and I'm now off to the next in the series.....
This was my first book by this author and I enjoyed her murder mystery set in Canada offering an interesting and very diverse group of characters, a plot that unfolded in a slow but entertaining way in a cozy and idyllic holiday 'manoir' by the lake. A relaxing read if that's what you are looking for!
The thing about returning to work after the holidays and then going away for the weekend seriously impacts on your reading time. However I have finally finished number 4 in the Armand Gamache series, thoroughly enjoyed it, and didn't guess whodunnit. Bring on number 5.
Penny's characters are very human.The consensus for this one seems to be that it's good, not great.
Also staying at the Manoir Bellchasse are the Finney family.
(Finney is the name of their stepfather.) Though on vacation, Gamache is called to investigate the death of one of the Morrow siblings, who is inexplicably crushed by the new statue.
Penny once again works against type with her hero, proving that while it's fun and good to have seriously flawed characters at the center of your detective series, it's also possible to go the other way, and still have a meaningful reading experience.
A Rule Against Murder was an interesting change of pace for Armand Gamache.
Armand and Reine-Marie celebrated a special time in June stretching back for more than thirty years.
Without the burden of interoffice politics to tug at the intrigue, Ms. Penny devoted Gamache’s time to pursue not only the who and why but just as equal, the how.
The mystery explored family dynamics and parent-children relationships, not all of them good.
As usual, I kept guessing.
And guessing.
I enjoyed seeing a different side of the Chief Inspector; be sure and watch for little bursts of humor from Armand and Reine-Marie.
So far, A Rule Against Murder is the best who-done-it in the series.
