https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6867.Atonement
McEwan shows us a girl who becomes an author precisely because she wants to expiate the dreadful feelings of guilt she has suffered all her life.
She cops out with a fake happy ending, because she still can't face what she did.I don't think this is a trick; I think he's saying something about the very nature of writing.
They write to absolve themselves of their guilt, but in the end they don't say what they want to say.
If they're lucky, they may finally reach an age when they are so far removed from what happened that they can tell the story straight.
Naturally, some of that lust is projected onto the young girl--reverse moralists are so hypocritical!--but it's Robbie and Cecilia who are truly wronged.
(To Kill a Mockingbird, mentioned earlier, does provide that history.) McEwan's characters are born the day we meet them...and only to serve his argument.In short, this is a defensive book.
Nothing works this way.One gets the distinct impression that McEwan has projected his own narcissism and guilt onto one character (the accuser) and his actual misdeeds onto another (the "unjustly" persecuted).
In World War II England, 13-year-old Briony Tallis misinterprets her older sister’s love affair with their family’s gardener to be something much worse than what it is.
Parts Two and Three are much more modern - the story, which switches gears to follow the gardener into WWII France and Briony to her experiences as a nurse in London, loses structure and fluidity and uses more modern storytelling techniques.
Instead, they add to the experience of watching the main character grow and develop.If the book suffers from anything, it might be a little slow in some places and move too fast in others.
There are parts of this novel that are disjointed - or if they aren't they appear so because the opening act moves so slowly that one is barely conscious and later unable to recall that anything much happened at all.Halfway through this novel, when its greatness starts to happen, a reader almost laments his earlier opinions of it.
The beginning is such an act of endurance that the later parts make a reader wish that McEwan had moved things more quickly in the beginning - and used those words for more character development in the middle - so the reader could declare this novel, unequivocally, one of the five best novels he's ever read.McEwan is at the top of the art form throughout, though, whatever a reader opines of the product.
I was bored with this until half way through, but then it got interesting. It touches on imagination versus reality, fiction versus fact, in addition to the story content. A portrait of an upper middle class English family is interrupted by a supposed rape in which a young imaginative (vengeful) girl misidentifies the rapist. I found that it stayed with me and that I appreciated it more with time. The film was a magnificent translation.
The characters are full of life and the language, even if elaborate and subtle, does not go around or makes inroads into itself.The narrator and protagonist, Briony Tallis, emerges in the beginner as a pre-adolescent that dreams to arrange the world in her texts, as in the play she is writing.
Briony is attracted to Robbie and envies in Cecily her independence and, and in her anxiety to wipe out her shortcomings recreates the world in her own way, succumbing to prejudice and threatening her already reduced capacity to accept reality.But, more than that, what McEwan shows is how a writer can worsen weaknesses such as vanity, cowardice and credulity, sentiments that derive from the solitary and fallible condition that is above all human.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003. The cost of oblivious daydreaming was always this moment of return, the realignment with what had been before and now seemed a little worse. In the heat of a 1930s Summer, a family reunites at their country home for what may be the last time. Cousins have come to stay, a sister has returned from University and a brother is returning from America with a new friend in tow. Briony, the only child left
Whilst Evelyn had a whimsical style to his writing, Ian McEwan is positively overflowing with flowery prose that leads nowhere and brings up memories of terrible books they made me read for college.Atonement is a relatively easy read, if you can take so much description and little plot.
But then this setting of the scene continues for around half the rest of the book and it soon becomes clear that the plot is far away and we're not entirely sure if it'll be seen at all.Setting the book during the war seemed like a pointless endeavour, if only to include some kind of treacherous battle scenes to add to the overall lack of drama up to this point.
I first read this novel almost a decade ago, and the story has stayed with me.
And only in a story could you enter these different minds and show how they had an equal value.
That was the only moral a story need have.""At that moment, the urge to be writing was stronger than any notion she had of what she might write.""From this new and intimate perspective, she learned a simple, obvious thing she had always known, and everyone knew; that a person is, among all else, a material thing, easily torn, not easily mended."
This is very difficult to write about without revealing anything about the plot, but as one reads the novel, it becomes clear what McEwan is trying to do.
I was drawn in by the fantastic writing, but then found myself wanting to hurl the novel across the room at some of the ridiculous choices by both the characters and the novelist.
At the same time, I marveled at how real parts 2 (Robbie at war) and 3 (Briony as a nurse--some of the hospital scenes are the best I've ever read) seemed to be.
But Briony's incomplete grasp of adult motives and her precocious imagination bring about a crime that will change all their lives, a crime whose repercussions "Atonement" follows through the chaos and carnage of World War II and into the close of the twentieth century.Characters: Briony Tallis, Emily Tallis, Cecilia Tallis, Leon Tallis, Lola Quincy, Jackson Quincy, Perriot Quincy, Paul Marshall, Robbie Turner.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز سی و یکم ماه مارس سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: «تاوان»؛ اثر: ایان مک اوان؛ ترجمه: م‍ص‍طف‍ی‌ م‍ف‍ی‍دی‌؛ نشر: تهران، گام نو‫، 1389، در 480 ص؛ شابک: 9789646917446؛ ‏چاپ دیگر: تهران، نیلوفر؛ 1390، در 437 ص؛ شابک: 9789644485213؛ موضوع: داستان‌های نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 مرویدادهای «تاوان» در سال‌های پس از جنگ جهانی دوم سپری و در این میان به خاطرات سال‌های جنگ نیز می‌پردازد.
Clearly anything I would have read after finishing a Masterpiece would pale in comparison but I decided that the critical raves this book had received and high praise from people around me should be enough to encourage me to see it through to the end.Here is why I found this book lacking without giving too much actual plot away to those who would want to read it themselves.I found all of the characters completely devoid of any true personality or any reason I should care or feel connected to them.
Sometimes these thoughts are a little disturbing (those of you who have read his earlier works will know what I mean), but usually they have the effect of completely drawing the reader into the story.
Like other McEwan books, it left me with a haunting question -- 'What if...?'As for McEwan's impressive insight into the mind of a thirteen-year-old girl, which other reviewers have called scary, I think that has everything to do with Briony's being a writer.
She is hardly your average thirteen-year-old (I think even McEwan would have a hard time coming up with one of those!); rather she is a writer (a good one), and that, of course, is something McEwan knows all about.
Non esiste alcuna possibilità di un rimediare a determinati errori.Non esiste "perdono"...né da parte di chi ha subito, né da parte di chi è stato causa di tanto dolore, di sconvolgimento, di distruzione."Perdonarsi" è ancora più difficile che perdonare...si può convivere con i sensi di colpa, si può diventare bravissimi a sopportarne il peso, ci si può fingere distratti, occupati, perfino accidentalmente felici, ma il mostro è sempre lì, insediato tra le pieghe della tua pelle.Una trama intensa , a tratti commovente , gli affreschi psicologici e relazionali dei protagonisti mirabilmente descritti , e la figura di Briony, artista poliedrica e camaleontica che vive un duplice tormento interiore , la propria colpa , ed il cercare di espiarla .
Capaci di errori madornali; errori come quelli di Briony, gravi eppure così piccoli se paragonati al supremo errore della guerra, ma che lasciano i loro strascichi lungo tutta una vita.
A lesson to us all: never put anything in print that one day might come back to bite you in the ass.Having already seen the movie, I didn't particularly want to read the book (I've never read Mario Puzo's The Godfather, now have I?), but seeing as this book is a modern great, I felt it my duty to drag it from my book cave.Pleasingly, McEwan writes with aplomb about the human psyche: of lust, loathing, immaturity and guilt; his prose is word perfect.That said, the novel suffers from its own identity crisis, a mezze of Jane Austen, followed by a main course of Sebastian Faulks.The author's genius, though, is in causing us to forget that his book was actually written in the modern day.
**WARNING: Don't read this if you don't want the ending spoiled!**This book...I hate it!
A story doesn't have to have a happy ending to be good, I mean, this is a great book, really, but I felt really empty & hollow when it was over.
The part at the end when the author says that the story is the only part that matters b/c no one will ever remember the real people or the actual events anyway was crushing!
It makes me think too much about actual events, politics, & things.
I'm told the movie is really good b/c it's beautiful w/out being quite as harsh at the end.
In life, we all make mistakes.
Some big, some small, but usually we quickly forget them.
But what happens when you make a mistake that haunts you every day and you can do nothing about it?This book was fantastic.
I loved the writing.
I loved the characters.
They were so well developed I could feel their emotions in myself as I read.
I was deeply and truly satisfied by the story and the writing.
When I closed the book after the last page I felt like I was sitting back after finishing an amazing meal.
Read this!
I might have wandered around the house too many times, and then returned to the movie asking my mother a billion questions.
First thing that grasped me while reading was the excerpt of Northanger Abbey by Jane Austen.
If you read  Northanger Abbey  and define atonement - reparation for a wrong or injury - then you basically know what happens.
I guess it helps that I read the book, but I bet if you watch it from beginning to end without wandering off you won't have a problem.
I hope all you get a chance to read this novel or the movie.
This was the favourite novel of a friend of mine who died suddenly a few years ago.
She loved it so much that she refused to see the film adaptation because, she said, it couldn't possibly be as good as the novel.
Not that I think a reader who didn't know the plot could work it all out just on the basis of the clues, but at least McEwan wasn't cheating.
Anyway, while I don't think McEwan is ever going to be my favourite novelist.
Yet still, yet still...Maybe it's all the acclaim that “Atonement” received when first published and the literary prizes it either won or was shortlisted for, or maybe it's the comparison I'm drawing – unfairly, to be sure – with some of the classic novels I've been reading lately, but I just don't see why McEwan's book has been held up as one of the great works of literary fiction of recent years.
(Though, to be fair, McEwan is asking for this comparison, as Nabokov mastered the metafiction toyed with in “Atonement” back when McEwan was just a wee lad.) Can't some literary novels just be an enjoyable read without achieving a place in the pantheon of great literature?
Which is unfair, I know, but there it is!What impressed me about the book was the powerful statement the author is making on the power of narrative - how much it rules our lives.
And when the person in question is a writer, sometimes the narrative proves too powerful for herself to control.This is what happens to Briony Tallis.
As a pre-teen, she unleashes forces larger than herself which play havoc with the lives of her near and dear.
Forces she cannot contain, however much she tries.What remains is...
I think it's perfectly fine for any mature enough kid to watch a movie like this. (Maybe not with their parents, how awkward would that be?) Chances are they've already encountered words like 'c**t', and it's only type written so it's not even that bad. I saw this movie . I didn't really like the gruesome army scenes and this movie was just a bit depressing, since the ending wasn't necessarily happy. Other then that I thought the acting was phenomenal and I especially thought the character of Briony was really interesting and compelling.
When I read a contemporary 21st century novel, especially a really good one, I often wonder, will it become a classic?
Will people still be reading it 150 years from now?
Occasionally I read one that I think will still be around, will be read and appreciated years from now.
The characters were so real that I felt like I was reading a historical record of their lives.
The writing was brilliant, as good as I have read., and I read a lot.
Yes, I think this novel will become a classic, it already is in my mind.
She will witness a mysterious scene between her older sister Cecilia and their housekeeper's son, Robbie; her thirteen years old eyes will interpret their interaction and the following events very differently from what actually happened and by the end of that day, nothing will ever be the same… From there on, we follow Robbie and Cecilia's story, as they deal with the consequences of Briony's not-so-innocent mistake, and with the young girl's long and excruciating journey for forgiveness.I am late on the band-wagon, as usual, and this is my first McEwan novel.
But you can’t say any person included in McEwans large cast of characters is depicted in an unrealistic way, and in my opinion, that’s what makes „Atonement“ a true masterpiece.Two years ago, I had to read „The Innocent“, one of McEwan’s less-known novels, for school.
I am still angry with my English teacher for introducing me to McEwan with such a book, considering his writing talents shine so much more through the narrative of „Atonement“.
The second section then introduced us to a soldier’s experience during the Second World War, and while interesting and very well-written, this section – once again – may be considered to be a little long-winded.
Μια γραφή πυκνή, να σχολιάζει τα πάντα, κάθε κίνηση, κάθε υπαινιγμό και ιριδισμό των χαρακτήρων του.
Μα, τελικά, το βιβλίο αυτό ακριβώς λέει: όσο νεαρός και αν είσαι, διεκδικώντας την συμπόνοια και την αγάπη ολάκερου του κόσμου, τα σφάλματά σου και οι αδυναμίες σου είνα ικανές να κάνον μεγάλο κακό.Ωστόσο, η γραφή αυτή απαιτεί κόπο, εξουθενώνει, και έρχεται η διάρθρωση του βιβλίου σε τρία μέρη να το σώσει.
Αυτής της Βρεττανικής λογοτεχνίας, όπου ένα επιβλητικό σπίτι είναι το κέντρο μιας προπολεμικής/μεσοπολεμικής ιστορίας, με τους χαρακτήρες του, χρόνια μετά να επισκεπτονται το σπίτι, και ανακουφισμένοι να θυμούνται μια ιστορία.Τελικά, ωραίο βιβλίο.
Some word beyond 'enthralling'?
It's perfect in every image and line and mirror and echo.
Ian McEwan is such a master of language and storycraft.I devoured this book in a day.
I love how he chooses to do it, switching from perspective to perspective, but always with the center on this delusional little girl, and the echoes of her own storymaking.
Eventually I'll post some of my favorite quotes to give an idea of the beauty of the language and ideas that he explores as well, but in general...
I think my favorite idea that he dealt with was the idea of order as a kind of childishness.
Because Ms. Austen was the master of comparing the controlled, domestic world of the home with that of the chaotic, spontaneous world of the outside, the unknown.Mirroring this idea, the self-centered 13-year-old Briony Tallis wonders early in McEwan's story, "Was that really all there was in life, indoors or out?"Yes, Briony, that's all there really is.
Life is about the world within and the world without, confusion regarding the perceived "safety" of home and the "threat" of the outside world, and the dangerous assumptions we can make about people and their potentially devastating outcomes.And what's war?
Wow, this book was really good but on different levels.
The first half gives us an intense story about a family who lives in some kind of a mansion in England.
Briony, Cecilia and the other family members are peculiar characters that give you a feeling that trouble is stirring under the surface.
The second half of the book takes a turn for the more serious, and while this part had its enchanting moments, it was the first part I loved the most.
Things wrap up beautifully and leaves you with a feeling of being cheated of the truth.
This is a book that leaves you thinking and considering, making up your own conclusions--and strong enough characters to make you want to.The first few chapters I did find my mind wandering through lengthy descriptions (I'll call it beautiful, poetic scenery), and yet that scenery set a lackadaisical feel vital to the innocence and peace of that opening day.
But despite her hesitation that night, considering Cecilia's drastic reaction to her family, I want to believe the relationship must have been long-term, more serious.
Despite my longing, I wouldn't necessarily consider the story of Robbie and Cecilia a complete tragedy.
A beautifully written and cleverly told story of relationships, growing up, guilt and, obviously, atonement and forgiveness.
Although it would be better to read this before watching the film, I’d heard that the book had been thought unfilmable and so was pretty different, which ensured I was alert to reading it with fresh eyes.
What McEwan does so well in this is the way he explains the inner thoughts and conflicts of his different characters, especially Briony, both as a naive and self-centred teenager, and as a selfless and guilt-ridden adult.
