https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/604062.A_History_of_the_Vikings
Deeply OK if probably a bit dated now, on the other hand excitement about the Vikings greater than new developments so older books still can be read with profit, really when it comes down to it even the discovery of a Viking encampment in Newfoundland hasn't changed the big picture or changed understands of the dynamics of the society, possibly at some stage genetics might change understanding comprehensively of Norse settlement patterns, or possibly not.
For something with a more rounded perspective taking in daily life I would recommend Else Roesdahl's book The Vikings.
And I was glad I did - Jones' book is everything Kendrick's wasn't.
Jones still discusses viking campaigns to Canada and England (also the Middle East, which I can't remember Kendrick getting into), but also gives the reader a ton of information about viking society and how it functioned.
The book goes through the lives of several important figures in viking history, as well as some other major players from the era, and gives an overview of the age of the vikings from the beginning in the 8th century, to 1066 when it officially ended.
My knowledge before reading this consisted primarily of the Viking raids on English coastal areas.
It was most interesting to learn that they had permanent settlements, especially into the Baltic area and even Russia.
I was also unaware of their long history in Normandy, which shed a different light on English medieval history.His beautifully worded intro makes the reader feel as though she is about to embark on an incredibly balanced view of the Vikings.
It does leave one wondering what the newest developments are in the study of Viking history.
A dream of a history book: deep, detailed, never a moment's boredom, and, ta-da, with writerly touches. I have a huge gratitude for writerly touches (wit, humour, art spent on a sentence) in non-fiction, that doesn't often bother to be a writer too. It makes the research swim by when you have them nuggets to look forward to.
His discussions are broad and encyclopedic, covering political history, explorations, art, religion, and the daily life of the people.
I found the book to be an excellent complement to Kenneth Harl’s Teaching Company Course, The Vikings, Dorothy Dunnett’s monumental historical novel, King Hereafter, and our own trip this summer to the Isle of Man, the Hebrides, and the Orkneys and Shetlands.
Jones writes clearly, and he organizes his vast amount of material skillfully, delineating and weaving known historical facts with legends and speculation.
More than just a history, the book provides valuable insights into the culture of the Scandinavian people during the period Jones covers.
Lo stile, infatti, è molto lineare e preciso, facile da seguire anche quando gli argomenti si fanno più complessi.Un testo completo, questo saggio può essere un ottimo primo approccio a chiunque voglia avere una buona preparazione sul mondo vichingo, tenendo però conto la grande prevalenza del contenuto storico e cronologico rispetto a quello culturale e religioso, due argomenti che spesso affascinano e che qui sono affrontati in maniera secondaria rispetto alla storia vera e propria dei popoli nordici.
This book serves as a very good general introduction to the history of the Norse from legendary times to 1066.Interestingly, despite having visited some of the sites mentioned and except for children's books on the subject and the occasional article, I think this was only the first or second real book I ever read about my putative ancestors. They are rather embarrassing.
This was an interesting and informative history of the Vikings, but I really would have preferred to have read a more recent account.
The author loved describing the pre-Christian vikings as heathens rather than pagans, which I felt was unnecessary.
The author also loved using words so obsolete that I've never seen some of them before in my life.
And I dare say some of them were even long obsolete in the 1960's, let alone today.Overall it was good in the absence of a modern history of the Vikings, but if there is indeed a more modern, well told history then I'd prefer that than this.

to find
That said, I am now more versed on Viking history, which I knew little about beyond the raids on England and brief settlement of North America.Before and during the Viking Age, the kingdoms of Scandinavia, except for the far northern regions, shared a common language, religion, culture, art and feudal economic system.
Viking history in Scandinavia is a story familiar to much of the rest of Europe in that there were warring kingdoms, internal coups and familicide as a means of obtaining power.The latter part of the book was of more interest to me when the author turned his attention to the Viking raids on the richer and more sophisticated England, Ireland, Wales, and France, the motivation for which being the pursuit of land, wealth and fame.
This is one of the definitive histories of the Vikings.
It was sort of an odd way to break up chapters and made the book difficult to read at times because there was never a sense of progression, you feel as if you are hopping ceaselessly from one topic to the next without knowing exactly where you are going.Other than occasional delays and frustration due to the odd organization of this book, I really enjoyed learning so much about the Viking Age. I knew quite a bit about Iceland and its Sagas before reading this, but this book did an excellent job at crossing boundaries and including a broad perspective of Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, French, Irish, English, Russian, Greek, Arabic, and various Christian written sources.
Interesting at the onset but quickly became a slow slog of impenetrable looping narratives and unpronounceable names. Harald Hardradi was supposedly quite the badass.
In the interests of full disclosure, I didn't finish this book but I tried very hard, I'm marking it off as read as I'm never going to finish it and I don't like seeing it constantly sitting on my To Read shelf...
So many people had said good things about it and I was really keen to learn some history of the Vikings and this book seemed appropriate to that!
There's no feel of being back in the 900's and experiencing what was happening and understanding the decisions and actions, just a bland recitation of fact.
This is an excellent survey history of the Vikings which may never be superseded.
Gwyn Jones managed to learn the entire plethora of languages in which the source documents were written (for example old and middle Welsh).
It is not clear that there will ever be another scholar willing or able to learn all these now highly obscure tongues.
Archeological finds continue to be made but given that the Vikings built with wood rather than stone, what is found is frequently not very enlightening.Gwyn Jones History of the Vikings is very good book on the Vikings that may remain the best for a very long time.
Read this some years ago. It is a very well researched and detailed account of the 300 years when the Vikings were the most feared men in the world. There are accounts of the lives of some of the most famous Vikings as well as cultural facts, and a deep historical study of where the Vikings traveled and settled as well as theory into why. This is a scholarly work and one of the best books on the Vikings I have read
A fairly detailed and very informative history of the Viking age. Jones balances history with historical theory, legend, and anecdotes to make an incredibly accessible and easy to digest book.I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone without some basic knowledge of Europe as a whole in this period, but Jones does a good job at providing context while staying in the bounds of the 'Vikings'. And there is a real sense of enthusiasm and excitement about the way this book is written
This is a very good overview of the Viking Age. I have used it as a textbook for a couple of college courses. My one critique is that Jones chose to break up the chronology a bit too much, in order to delve into topics, but that's mostly a pet peeve of mine. All in all, a very good book on the subject.
Dry, and older. Still serves as a solid introduction to Scandinavia from 793-1104ish. When Jones becomes the most engaged with the subject, his/her writing can become a little unclear. It's hard to figure out when in history events take place. But, Jones clearly loves the Viking Age and some passages are splendidly funny.
A great read on the history of Vikings, it should still be considered the standard history. The problems it has are two fold. One, the author passed over ten years ago and he missed several important archaeological development. Lastly, this is not a casual read, this shit is hardcore scholarly work.
This is a very difficult book to read. The names alone will drive you nuts. The work is well researched and has compiled as thorough history of the vikings as I can imagine. It is well footnoted and I recommend you take your time with the footnotes. The sources collected show a wealth of research.
Came across this brilliant and comprehensive guide to the world of the Vikings in a second hand book shop - so much interesting and surprising detail. Definitely the best read on the subject I have come across recently.
I liked it. A fast paced review of Viking conquests and culture. I enjoyed Jones' writing style but at times it did come off very stuffy and too scholarly. However, the 3 chapters on Scandinavian culture were outstanding and detailed. I'd recommend it.
gd! this was a difficult read. it should have been titled, 'everything known about the vikings pounded into a single dense text' with a subheading 'you will never keep track of all the nigh-identical norse names for people and places'.i should have read 'intro to vikings' first.
I love the Vikings and this in my opinion is the most comprehensive and scholarly book on the Vikings so I of course loved it. The writing is rather dry but what the hell. The sections on Viking culture were particularly good and rather funny.
Interesting book about the Norseman. They were better business man than previously though as well as fearsome warrior plus including details about the bleak landscape of the frigid north of Europe in place such as Norway and Sweden as well as Denmark.
Some parts were hard to get through, mostly the chapters focusing on specific people. A lot of names get thrown at me and I can't always keep everyone straight, and I'm much more interested in the everyday life of people in this time period than in all the people (men, really) in charge.
The best book about the Vikings, by the expert in the subject. I have a Folio edition version of this, with serpents and runes inlaid on the spine and cover. I don't know how I got through so many books...
Incredibly well researched history of the Vikings. But the book can be dense at times, and sometimes it goes a bit too deep into the power struggles of even the minor chieftains of every small kingdom.
