https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18064.The_World_of_Mr_Mulliner
⚠ Mercilessly bumped this review shall be as stories in this collection I read. Thou hast been warned and stuff. Another Christmas Carol: 4 stars because DUH.Jolly deaths + quivering noses & wiggling ears+ rich old aunts who subscribe to Playboy + interior decorating + suspiciously humorous Harley Street physicians + Orson Welles’ weight + bubonic plague & leprosy (view spoiler)[yay! (hide spoiler)] + Christmas dinner + England’s tea-drinking crossword puzzle experts civil servants + Pur
Thou hast been warned and stuff.① Another Christmas Carol: 4 stars because DUH.Jolly deaths + quivering noses & wiggling ears+ rich old aunts who subscribe to Playboy + interior decorating + suspiciously humorous Harley Street physicians + Orson Welles’ weight + bubonic plague & leprosy (view spoiler)[yay!
(hide spoiler)] + Christmas dinner + England’s tea-drinking crossword puzzle experts civil servants + Pure Diet and World Redemption + taxicab mix-ups + being smacked between the eyes with a wet fish = that’s the hilarious scrumptiousness and scrumptious hilariousness of P.G. Wodehouse for you.I'm with you on that one, Little Helmet Men Of The Many Fingers In The Air.This is short.
So what the bloody fish are you waiting for?
I keep this book right next to my bed and read it when I feel discouraged about life. Wodehouse's sense of invention, his wit, his keen eye for the funny parts of human nature.... I feel better just thinking about it right now. Many lines in these stories have become standard conversation between me and my husband. "What are a few orphreys between friends?" Life is better with Wodehouse, some toasted English muffins and cocoa nearby.
Omnibus. Includes Buck-u-Uppo, my Mom's favorite & other great stories.

Entertaining, and a great introduction to dry British humor. Some of the lines in Wodehouse's writing are absolutely brilliant in their ability to convey an idea memorably - sort of like high-class Southern colloquialisms.Here is one of my favorites from this book:"All alone in a dark world that smelt of mice, Frederick Mulliner gave himself up to gloomy reflection. He had just put in about two minutes' intense thought of a kind which would have made the meditations of Schopenhauer on one of his bad mornings seem like the day-dreams of Pollyanna . . ."
I tracked down this book for one six page story (Another Christmas Carol) that was recommended by one of my favorite authors, Connie Willis, in the appendix of her book of Christmas stories. I love Wodehouse, and so far this book has not disappointed. It's hilarious, and makes great before-bed reading when I want to make sure I'm not going to dream about the Blitz as I'm reading Willis' "Blackout."
The best and funniest of Wodehouse, if one can dare to say such a thing. My favorite is Honeysuckle Cottage, or maybe Those in Peril on the Tee, or maybe the series surrounding Mulliner's Buck-U-Up-O...really, how can one decide? Essential reading!
Some of the stores are laugh-out-loud hilarious, others are hilarious, some are simply funny. Overall, I would say it averages out to four stars, although there are definitely some five-star stories in there.
Excellent.
When the world is getting me down, Wodehouse, especially the Mulliner stories, pick me up.
I'm entering in all the titles on the shelf by Wodehouse. I know I've read others, but this is what I kept.
Забавные романтические истории о родственниках мистера Муллинера.
Outlandish plots, hilarious metaphors and the cozy atmosphere of the Anglers' Nest where you'll find
"The World of Mr. Mulliner" provides 42 excellent samples of his short story prowess.
Mr. Mulliner, sitting the Anglers' Rest and drinking warm scotch and lemon, spins tales of the life-changing adventures of his many relatives.
The tales involve his relative's attempts to get or to avoid the state of matrimony.
The tales are clever, engaging, and very funny, and involve stoic grand dames, movie magnates, grandly mustachioed upper classes, curates, and cats.
I found that I could not read more than one or two at a sitting because I wanted to extend my enjoyment of the stories.
Very funny stuff.
Probably an acquired taste, but a guilty pleasure.
Much of the old BBC Wodehouse Playhouse stories can be found here, by Jove.
P.G. knows how to send his Mulliners into some hilariously inventive scrapes - or perhaps you might find them formulaic and predictable, but still worth a hoot, what?Also grant there are one or two instances of words we no longer find racially acceptable in conversation; just bear in mind they were acceptable in the 1930's, and leave them where they belong, in the past.
Chomp on your pipe instead.
(not that you can smoke it anywhere anymore, of course).
This book was fairly entertaining, but not as good as the Golf Omnibus, and not nearly as good as any of the Jeeves and Wooster stuff. Even by Wodehouse standards, the characters in this collection of vignettes were too one-dimensional, too predictable, and the conclusions of the conflicts too absurd. I was particularly bothered by the female portrayals, as well as one brief brush with racism. Definitely skip this and find some Jeeves instead.
42 stories covering something like 4 decades of stories. The format is almost always the same. He is an older guy at a pub where he is a regular. Someone tells a story and he always says "that reminds me of my cousin Fred and the time he....". Some of the stories are ok - but certainly not his best work. He even says in the introduction that he basically contrived it as a foil for Jeeves and Wooster because he couldn't write every story about them.
A book of short stories composed of tales of various romantic entanglements encountered by Mr. Mulliner’s many relatives, and related by him at the Angler’s Rest.You can’t go too wrong with Wodehouse. The stories do vary a bit in degree of humor – some are side-splittingly funny, others just a bit odd. They might be better enjoyed in small doses.
Mr. Mulliner is a man blessed by many nephews. Then there are his cousin's sons, and even an occasional niece or a cousin's daughter. And all are subject to romantic entanglements. Mr. Mulliner shares their improbable adventures with the other drinkers at the bar-parlour of the Angler's Rest. There are 40 stories in this wonderfully amusing compilation.
As typical of Wodehouse books, this was lots of good fun - some of the stories were up there with the best of his work. It might have been better to space this out more and read only a few at a time, since the stories do get a little bit repetitive, but I still enjoyed it!
A reviewer at The Economist once wrote that "A good test of almost any book is to ask whether one would not be better off reading a work by P.G. Wodehouse, and the answer, in this reviewer's opinion, is nearly always 'Yes.'" I couldn't agree more.
Do your self a favor and read some Wodehouse. It's funny. It's incredibly well written. There is nobody like Wodehouse. Jeeves is his most famous character but I like the Mr. Mulliner stories just as well if not better.
many of the stories made me laugh or loud; highly entertaining read!
Delightful
In my opinion the Mr. Mulliner stories are some of Wodehouse's finest. They contain many of the best lines and so many delicious absurdities.
Fabulous.
Mr. Mulliner is Wodehouse in medias rex. Read, enjoy, take stock, and forget. That's a genius at work. -JM
Paperback, own
A good book to have on the shelf to fill in time between other novls.Best to read one or two stories at a time and then take a break.
Shear delight! Wodehouse has a gift with words that tickles my soul.
