https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462033.Maisie_Dobbs
In general I prefer to confine the term 'Mary Sue' to fan fiction, where it belongs. But when I tell you that Maisie has purple eyes, rippling black hair, outstanding intelligence, a near-psychic empathy with her clients, and is practically perfect in every possible way & I think I may be allowed an exception. On top of all this, the author researched the First World War background for this very, very thoroughly and, oh, how it shows! Throw in a faithful Cockernee sidekick (wiv an 'eart of g
In general I prefer to confine the term 'Mary Sue' to fan fiction, where it belongs.
But when I tell you that Maisie has purple eyes, rippling black hair, outstanding intelligence, a near-psychic empathy with her clients, and is practically perfect in every possible way & I think I may be allowed an exception.
On top of all this, the author researched the First World War background for this very, very thoroughly  and, oh, how it shows!
People have opinions on whether or not one should star books that weren't finished, whether one can star unread books by authors they don't like--or even do like--and then there are those that will actually argue a reviewer's rating based on the reviewer's interpretation, the infamous 'you read it wrong' offense.Here I am, deciding to stretch my reading boundaries a little by giving Miss Maisie Dobbs a try: I enjoy mysteries, I love a good female lead and--hey--I'm a nurse, so why not?
Yes, it's a mystery -- somewhat.
In fact, Maisie Dobbs is one of those books that can't really be pegged and shelved in it's own confined area.
The book starts in 1929, when Maisie sets up her detective practice and receives her first solo case: A man wants Maisie to find out if his wife is having an affair.
From here, we learn Maisie's backstory - essentially, how she came to "be" Maisie Dobbs, Detective.
I loved the setting (pre-and-post WWI England), and enjoyed Maisie's backstory with all it's information about being "in service".
Naturally, I had high expectations.Maisie Dobbs is a detective and self-proclaimed psychologist in post-WWI London, and the novel splits its time between a case and detailing Maisie’s background.
Only half the book is a mystery as Maisie investigates “The Retreat” where injured soldiers escape the stares of society.In the other half, Winspear recounts Maisie’s past.
Maisie Dobbs is almost too good to be true: brilliant and dedicated, moving seamlessly between all ranks in society.The book is well written, but the split-nature of its format backfires.
And Winspear does not fully develop the mystery, so its climax borders on the ridiculous.Winspear has written several more books in the Maisie Dobbs series.
Starting from the holier-than-thou main character, to the non-existent mystery, to the amazing (not) resolution of the non-mystery, to the abrupt hundred pages worth of tedious flashback in the middle of the mystery; everything bothered me.
A ladies infidelity is suspected by her husband, the lady is blameless, and Maisie spends some time giving him shit for suspecting his wife.
However it leads Maisie onto a suitably creepy post-war hidey hole for army men affected by the war called The Retreat.
Then, there's someone else talking about the Retreat too, and Maisie decides to investigate.
Cut. Flashback into Maisie's early life.
This is a story about a cute, clever, and plucky young woman named Maisie Dobbs.
Later, the man died of suspicious circumstances, so Maisie investigates a farm called The Retreat, using her charm and wits to get an inside look.The middle section of the book is a flashback to how Maisie got to be so plucky and sweet and charming.
in the end, Maisie shares her own sad story of what happened to her during the war.Did I mention that Maisie is cute and charming and sweet and plucky and charming?A few friends recommended this book to me, knowing how much I enjoy charming British novels.
I love this book. I listened to the audiobook. It's beautifully done. I am going right into book 2. I'm already attached to the characters.
A beautifully written story of a young girl's rise from household servant to wartime field nurse to her own successful career as a private investigator during WWI-era England.
Winspear creates Maisie's story of her first professional case in such a way that with flashbacks we understand the physical and psychological scars of those who served during wartime...the sacrifices of the body, mind and heart....which has made Maisie develop a sense of purpose in life that goes beyond just solving mysteries.
She has empathy for those who suffer or are in need, and this first installment of Maisie Dobbs will reveal the path that has brought her from servant to beginning her own professional business.
Probably the only reason I finally read it was because I'm trying to read the books I already have, instead of adding to my ever growing pile of books to read.Maisie Dobbs is a new private eye in post WWI London, setting up shop and trying to earn a good client base in a world still getting used to the working woman outside of service.
The first book in the Maisie Dobbs series; it sheds some light on what happened to Maisie in the passed during the war, while also following along as she uses everything her mentor Maurice Blanch taught her to solve the mysteries brought to her by clients or ones she discovers along the way.I found this book a bit hard to get into.
ETA Jan 2013: quick re-read before I start the rest in the series. A little better the second time round. Clearer head, or something. But my original opinion, below, still holds. 3.5 starsI liked this, very much; I just didn't love it. I wanted to be more connected to Maisie, but felt that she slipped away before I could learn to love her. I liked the story and the back story and the way they intertwined, although I found the switching back and forth in time was handled a little awkwardly.I will continue the series.
I think this book is good enough to re-read.
Maisie Dobbs is my first female heroine...
As you can tell, I LOVE Maisie Dobbs.
Her mentor, Maurice Blanche, comes in a very close second.The story starts with Maisie as an adult.
Her mother dies young, and Frankie her father, sends her to a home to be a maid.
There are 14 books in the Maisie Dobbs series.
Over the next 13 months I will continue to read one per month with the group Retro Chapter Chicks.Loved, loved, loved this book.5 stars** OK, I have to say before Maisie, I revered one female heroine: Jane Eyre.
This book just didn't work for me. Maisie Dobbs was mostly annoying and a very boring character and the story was very bland.I liked the ending, but probably not enough to want to read more books about Miss Dobbs unless anyone can convince me that they will get better.
It gets into the first real case, then takes a significant detour into the past to give Maisie’s backstory - I’d say probably half the book shows her childhood up through WWI nursing experiences.
So although there’s a mystery, it really felt like a WWI historical novel much of the time, along with the horrors and sadness it left behind.
I really liked Maisie - she’s smart and manages to work her way out of servitude using her brains and her connections.
But once WWI comes into her life, the story takes a tragic turn.
I’m guessing that future installments will also focus less on her personal story and more on whatever mysteries she’s investigating.
The family sees much promise in the smart Maisie and offers to fund her education.
WWI breaks out and Maisie feels called to volunteer.
When she arrives home after the war, Maisie continues her education and ultimately opens a private investigation firm.
One of her first jobs appears to be a routine infidelity case but ends up being much more and causes Maisie to revisit many of her traumatic memories of the Great War. The mystery and plot are excellently written and exciting.
I like the way that the author weaves in history and flashbacks to bring interest to the plot.
I enjoyed this so much I barely care about some of the faults it has. Excellent experience.
I don't like that she feels it mandatory to provide psychological counseling to her clients, or the way she repeatedly recalls precious bits of wisdom from her mentor ("Allow grief room to air itself...
be judicious in using the body to comfort another, for you may extinguish the freedom that the person feels to be able to share a sadness").
I also didn't buy the way Maisie can figure out what another person is feeling by mimicking his body posture.I didn't find this compelling enough to continue with the series.
Ohhhhhhhhhhhhhh I have book hangover.
M A S S I V E book hangover.
I loved this book so very much - even the parts that made me cry [I have such a problem with books that deal with war in general {as anyone with a soul would}, but books that deal with WW1 in particular are very distressing to me].
I loved the characters and I adored Maisie and all she was determined to do regardless of the fact that she was a woman.
This was a lovely story - a full on mystery with no murder [to speak of] and genuine intrigue.
As the book progresses, this storyline intersects with Maisie’s own back story.
Gradually, we learn how Maisie’s intelligence was recognised by Lady Rowan, who encouraged her to gain an education; how the war intervened and how Maisie has reached the point in her life that she has by the time we meet her.
With Maisie feeling something is really wrong at the Retreat, she sets out to investigate, with Lady Rowan’s approval.
Maisie is an interesting character and this novel covers so much – from a touching love story, to life below stairs, early university education for women, nursing during the first world war and more.
After discovering Maisie reading in the library in the middle of the night, Lady Comptom takes Maisie under her wing and arranges tutoring for her in her spare time with her good friend Dr Maurice Blanche, who amongst other things is a private detective.
The novel is set in 1929 when Maisie is setting up her own detective agency after taking over from Maurice and embarking on solving her first mystery.
It also tells us the story of Maisie's journey to become a detective, from before the war when she became a student at Cambridge to her enlistment as a WWI nurse.
MAISIE DOBBS (Historical Novel/Mystery) – OkayJacqueline Winspear – 1st bookPenguin Books, 2003 – Trade PaperbackSet in England between 1910 and 1929 is the story of Maisie who goes from being the daughter of a fruit-and-vegetable man, to the in-between maid of wealthy aristocrats where she receives special tutoring, on to college and then serving as a Nurse in France during WWI and, finally, setting up an investigative service where she is asked to find out about “The Retreat,” a home for young men severely injured during the War.*** This is primarily a background novel about Maisie who is, by the way, precognitive.
Winspear is meticulous about doing her homework about the period in question (World War I and its aftermath), and the heroine, Maisie is muy simpática.That said, not all four books are of equal quality.
The plot to #2 was a bit too predictable, while #3 suffers from the opposite flaw - too many convoluted subplots, with a little too much reliance on the deus ex machina to help resolve them.However, these are minor quibbles about a series which is overall very enjoyable.A further quibble - here we are at the end of 4 books already, and the ongoing celibacy of the heroine is starting to bother me.
A really enjoyable start to a series. It was more than a mystery with lots of great period details and wonderful character building. It read more like a hist fic with a little mystery thrown in but I thought it was great. I started this up a couple of years ago but couldn't get into so put it down. This year it came up as a group series read in Retro Chapter Chicks so I decided to give it another try. Glad I did and I'm going to be moving on to book 2.
I really enjoyed the writing in this book, and how it could have been a formulaic mystery, but instead added so much more depth and emotional background to the story. I also enjoyed the characters and the time period, and although I might not get around to the rest of the series anytime soon, I know I would definitely like to at some point! It did get a bit explainy at the end, adding lots of words to what I already knew/had figured out, so it’s not quite five stars for me.
The story and crime case hooked me and I'm convinced to continue with these (audio)booksMaisie Dobbs was a pretty nice and interesting audiobook listening to a historical crime fiction in the easy "Cozy Mystery" genre.
**********************************************England, 1929 — 10 years after WWI Maisie Dobbs is a bright and clever woman who just started her own private investigation practice in London.
• A big part of this first book was also about old childhood memories, Maisie's years as a young housmaid and later a WWI war nurse.
A horrible war and a lot of young soldiers lost their life there.) All in all a good start.
The only thing I didn't care for with this book is that Winspear started with the mystery, then gave Maisie's back story for the second third of the book, then went back to the mystery.
I loved the setting (England and France during and just after World War I) and the odd little insightful observations on the psychology of the mind.
Winspear didn't allow Maisie to be a martyr, either.
I loved that other female characters would call Maisie out when she was wearing her difficult life as a badge of honor.
The subject matter was pretty intense, but the writing was somehow light.
3 starsBook #1 of a multi-book series, in which we meet Maisie Dobbs, female detective, in the early 1900's. This novel gives her backstory through childhood, housekeeper, college, early nursing career, and into her formal detective career. The author stays true to the time period of this story, while inventing this fictional character. This book copes with the aftermath of the war and it's traumatic grip on those who experienced it. The next installment is Birds of a Feather.
I got about 2/3 of the way through this audiobook and just couldn't take it anymore.
Maisie is the flattest character I have read in a long time, and in fact I can't even think of a flatter character.
She is a one-dimensional, and oh too good to be true, character doing all the "right" things, I just couldn't listen to it anymore.
Some of the book's critics have compared her to Nancy Drew; well I read all of the Nancy Drew books and Maisie Dobbs is no Nancy Drew, she could only hope to have 1/2 of Nancy Drew's spunk.
4.5 STARS"Maisie Dobbs isn’t just any young housemaid.
When World War I breaks out, Maisie goes to the front as a nurse.
After the War, Maisie sets up on her own as a private investigator.
But her very first assignment, seemingly an ordinary infidelity case, soon reveals a much deeper, darker web of secrets, which will force Maisie to revisit the horrors of the Great War and the love she left behind." (From Amazon)A great historical mystery - I would not call it a cozy mystery as it isa bit dark as people are now living with WWI memories.
I really like Maisie and how she advances in the novel.
Having never read Jacqueline Winspear before, I came to this book with no expectations, but having read it, I can see why it won various Best First Novel awards, and I look forward to reading more in the Maisie Dobbs series, altho I'm not sure the others can hold the emotional impact of this one.
This story is told through Maisie's feelings and experiences in WWI and the years following.
It will be interesting to see whether this same aspect follows into other books in the series.
Maisie Dobbs is one of those easy to love kind of characters.
She is a brilliant young housemaid who is discovered by her British aristocratic employer whose patronage leads her to Cambridge and beyond.
However, WWI breaks out and things happen which will change the course and perspective of her life.
The first of this series is in part a synopsis of her life and how she is to eventually become a private investigator and in part a mystery to be uncovered all dealing and interconnected with the war.
I listened to this one and enjoyed "hearing" Maisie's voice.
I will continue with the series.
