https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/841116.The_Chinese_Written_Character_as_a_Medium_for_Poetry
Eschewing abstract verbs as the province of logic and degraded/lazy poetry, Fenollosa calls for a return of the transitive verb, of a multiplicity of verbs, to the English language.
Indeed, his frequent asides about the English language should clue the reader in that his subject is not really Chinese language at all, but a kind of comparative study of (his vision of) the relative strengths of tradition in each, by which I mean how cognizant the poet and his/her readers are of the etymology and previous usage of each word utilized.
This book argues that poets might exploit the analogies between the Chinese language, which is ideogrammatic, and poetry, which employs images. While this is a useful notion for poets in whose work images are dominant, in fact poetry is about music and wordplay as well. Thus, while the book’s argument resonates with the work of poets like Ezra Pound or H. D., it is more limited with respect to the work of poets like Walt Whitman, Allen Ginsberg, Christian Bok or Henry Rollins.Re-read Sept. 3-9, 2015
In the world of literary criticism and interpretation it was regarded in much the same way as Robert Graves' The White Goddess.I read it on the recommendation of Robert Gehorsam, an aesthete for whom I had some considerable respect.
He also recommended Graves' book, but Pound was much, much shorter.
I understand now that its thesis, like Graves', is pretty thoroughly discredited, but in certain domains this hardly matters, litcrit being as much a weaving of tales as the literatures it studies.
Besides, it gives one some insight into Pound--or Graves, for that matter.
About the maestro, of course, and his time at Saint Elizabeth's, about that strange man Fenollosa, about the poetry of the Han dynasty [and on and on with the Chinese names and dynasties]...in other words, about Pound things that none of us knew anything about, not even the maestro, really, because the literature he knew best was European literature, but what a show of strength, what magnificent curiosity Pound had, to root around in that enigmatic language, am I right?"I'm not sure where the book came from, maybe from Jeff Logan because he appreciated Pound a lot more than me, but it was in great shape for being passed around in Nepal so maybe Kate Klaus mailed it to me, I dunno, but it was a strange little book to be reading and thinking about in Nepal while I was wrapping my head around another language and alphabet.And as for the ideas, well, Fenollosa is discredited these days but it probably doesn't matter.
If this essay was Pound's second-most-important editing job after The Waste Land, then this edition should be nearly as important as the Valerie Eliot edition of the original version of the latter with Pound's notations was in the '70s. In any case, Haun Saussy's intro is very helpful, and one gets a much broader picture of Fenellosa.
The 2008 Saussy, Stalling, and Klein Critical Edition of CWC is essential to further study of the subject. Includes full text of Fenollosa's 'original', Ezra Pound's more famous emendation, Haun Saussy's now indispensable introduction, copious notes, and related texts.
Great book. Turns out later that scholars disagree with Fenollosa, but hey, fuck'em. Great imagining of language.
The 2nd paragraph of the back cover blurb says this: "The old theory as to the nature of the Chinese written character (which Pound and Fenollosa followed) is that the written character is ideogrammic — a stylized picture of the thing or concept it represents.
The group holds something of the quality of a continuous moving picture." - pp 8-9 While I completely disagree w/ Fenollosa's assertion of the obviousness of the pictorial connection to the written symbol I do find his claim that Chinese is all verbs to be very interesting.
the main concept of this essay is that chinese characters have more depth and meaning then english’s sort of watered-down verbs like ‘is’. i thought it was interesting and i understood what was being said but i really had to focus to truly understand.
Most of what is said is provably nonsense, but it poses some interesting ideas for experimentation with translation and poetics.
Fenollosa obviously had little knowledge of Chinese, and Pound had even less so, and from my understanding of his work, would not have been shy of editing the work to fit his own ideas.
Sadly, not available through my library, since it could be interesting to read it, especially as it apparently goes more into Japanese usage, and in the essay I have, Fenollosa notes that he comes to Chinese through Japanese experts, but then says little more of it.
I was pleasantly surprised when I learned about the Chinese written language and now want to study it (when has a book you dreaded made you want to delve deeper into the subject matter?).
The book is short and doesn't really have that much poetry in it, but it has many profound statements and insights.
Overall, this was a book that made me think about the English language, Chinese written character, and many other things I never thought I would need to think about.
I was pleasantly surprised by this book.
and in all of 36 pages!key points:- nouns are the most dead approximations, abstracted from the thingness of a thing, which is defined by what it does- harmony of pairings, not to create a third object but to suggest fundamental relationships- visual characters are etymologies preserved- avoid "is" as much as possible; this made Shakespeare great- greatest poetry of all languages came before grammar solidified; science (the truth of a thing) should win out over logic (the organization of a thing)- action/motion = key.
He takes you to the moment of cavemen creating language, and paints it as a process of imaginative metaphor in which electric, pulsing verbs were used to describe objects, and eventually became nouns.
It's nice to be made aware of how language masks the full energy of reality because of how it's gotten more abstract and weaker through time.
It's still all there.Also, if you happen to write poetry and experience shame as a result...it helps to think about cavemen doing it.
Cavemen are no fags.
We used this for the first time to teach UCOR 101.
As an experiment, I think the text does lend itself to the topic of writing and critical thinking about reading and writing.
However, I would put in much more critical thinking of my own before using this text for freshman, as it is heavily theoretical.
My co-teacher did an excellent job with the discussion of semiotics and the concrete use of language emphasized in this book.
Overall, I really liked reading it, but personally found it hard to teach, perhaps because I'm not as comfortable with the linguistic theories presented within as I would like to be.
I suspect Fenollosa's argument breaks down if one looks too closely at his chosen examples (in Chinese), but the heart of this brilliant essay is what he has to say about poetic diction and metaphor as the foundation of language.I find it interesting that seemingly unrelated things I've read have made similar points--for example, much of what the Inklings (Tolkien, Lewis, Barfield) or Esperanto writers (eg. Piron's essay Esperanto from the Viewpoint of a Writer) have to say on poetics.
Ezra Pound's edited version helps focus on the experience of poetry and the act of writing - from a different perspective as the relationship with thought and language is different with ideograms vs English and related languages. A rainbow of "metaphoric overtones" is explained . . . and other connections can be found. (Pounds periodic editor comments that flog our western egoism are fun too - and probably well deserved.)
In this essay by Fenollosa you can find a brief explanation about the main characteristics of the chinese character, and chinese poetry and how this function as an image-word, that shows multiplicity of meanings, and avoid the vicious of the latin languages that have complicated the languages with connectors, tenses, and more extra words that we use to comunicate properly. Very useful for my thesis.
Garbage when it comes to Chinese (and every linguist I know will tear their hair out of frustration, because for fuck's sake, writing system =/= language.); a great service when it comes to the revitalization of English (which in itself says a lot about it's decaying aesthetic back in Fenollosa's era).
E.P.: "The state of Chinese studies in the Occident is revoltingly squalid, and one has to read Frobenius in his own lamguage? Because English and American professors are moles."
Great except that it's not that true.
a few nuggets.
I read this on Ezra Pound's recommendation, and I'm glad I did. The arguments re: verbs and logic were amazing.
