https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7604.Lolita
He’s a paedophile.”A bit taken aback, I enquired further, “Who?
There was an older guy who hung around my house with my sister’s friends and who paid a lot of attention to yours truly.
Not quite the age gap that Lolita and Humbert shared but enough of one to piss a lot of people off.
Which, of course I did because I was completely head over heels in love with him and I thought that maybe, just maybe this would be the time he would take me back.
While Lolita may have thought she knew what she was doing and getting herself into I think it is safe to say she had no understanding of the impact her actions would have.
The fact that it is so easy to be taken in by him either says something about how brilliant a writer Nabokov is (which he is), or how much society still loves to blame the victim.I don't know whether to feel better about my original feelings or be horrified that even the description for the audiobook describes the novel as: "a love story almost shocking in its beauty and tenderness." And I also know that I have no right to criticise other people who saw it in such a way, but I would ask you to read it again, to look beyond Humbert's snivelling and self-pity, to see the man who considers murdering a woman so he can be free to have sex with her twelve year old daughter, the man who feels sorry for himself when a young girl doesn't want to have sex with him because she's still hurt from the last time.
In this world of Jerry Sanduskys and such, there are still people who find this "erotic," who in the end feel compassionate towards the narrator, who think that Lolita was the one who seduced and manipulated poor Humbert?
Lolita is as erotic as Speak is pornographic.
As for favorable opinions of Humbert, I guess it is possible this effect can be attributed to Nabokov's mastery of deception.
No, Humbert did not fool me into feeling sorry for him.
On a technical level, Lolita deserves full 5 stars - the language, the wit, the world play!
- I don't think I've ever read anything like this before.
After reading "Lolita" I understand what he meant.Nabokov was a man obsessed with word games and this book is crammed cover to cover with many brilliant examples.
Language delighted the man and that certainly comes across.
Humbert and Dolores Haze (Lolita) only ever (to my mind) become three dimensional at odd moments here and there.
The character of Lolita as well is shrill and one note through out.
It begins to feel repetitive and only comes alive again when Humbert reaches the very end of his self control and attempts to lash out at one he believes wronged him.
The power of this book is that it’s creepy and taboo, but the pedophilia and incest is so damn plausible.
Nabakov makes this an even more difficult sexual arrangement for his readers to contemplate, because the 12 year old is an eager, compliant and willing partner to the crime.In Lolita the protagonist is a criminal and his actions unforgivable.
The brain stem is innately integral to life.It’s from this midbrain we get reflex, instinct, coordinated movement, sex drive, fight-or-flight, and a whole range of metabolic regulation for all organs in the rest of the body.
It’s difficult for our human cortex to constrain an electrical input from the animal brain stem.
LUST AND LEPIDOPTERY(Legend of a Licentious Logophile) 1. Libidinous linguist lusts after landlady's lass.2. Lecherous lodger weds lovelorn landlady.3. Landlady loses life.4. Lascivious lewd looks after little Lolita.5. Lubricious Lolita loves licking lollipops lambitively.6. Licentious lecturer loves Lolita louchely.7. Lechery lands lusty lamister in legal limbo.8. Lachrymose libertine languishes in lockup.
A child in a man’s body, unable to move on from what was to him the most perfect memory; Humbert’s obsession with youth takes on the form of paedophilia: he becomes attracted to this idea of purity and develops strong sexual feelings towards it.
The content of the book is vile, Humbert is vile, but in a fictionalised world we have to look beyond that.
The world is seen through the eyes of Humbert, so everything we see is what he sees and what he experiences.
There is nothing funny about Lolita.This book is terribly serious in content, and Humbert is not a man to be laughed at.
In spite of the subject matter I had to laugh many times at the way he crafted his narrative, especially his droll word play and numerous double entendres.This is presented as a first person letter, recommended by his lawyer, of his unfortunate attraction to “nymphets” (a girl child between the ages of 9 and 14) and to his particular seduction of his erstwhile step-daughter Dolores, whom he affectionately calls Lolita.
I am blown away by this Vladimir Nabokov's work, ironic and dramatic at the same time.
D'altronde ci dice Nabokov che la sua opera:"...
Per me un'opera di narrativa esiste solo se mi procura quella che chiamerò francamente voluttà estetica".Il protagonista, Humbert, descrive in maniera precisa e spesso sarcastica la sua sindrome, l'attrazione irrefrenabile verso coloro che definisce "ninfette" sulla base di una rigorosa combinazione di età, atteggiamento e modo di vestire, un mix letale in grado di scaraventarlo in un abisso di irrazionalità.
Qualcosa non quadra nel bell'Humbert, che progetta matrimoni di convenienza o improbabili assassinii pur di soddisfare la sua estatica passione.
يوميات متحرش بالأطفال:::::::::::::::::::::س: عرف العمل الأدبي الكلاسيكيج هو عمل غالبًا لا تستطيع أن 
I don’t even know what the hell that statement on the cover is supposed to mean, but ‘postwar America’ were powerful buzzwords at the time, and truly, what else could you possibly use as a thematic defense for this book, seeing as the book has nothing to offer except the ridiculous tale of a weathered old pervert ogling young girls on the hopscotch courts, finding one that epitomizes his unacceptable desires, and eventually having his way with her before attempting to completely control her young body and mind during a trek that can only be considered kidnapping on the grandest scale.
Nabokov often writes his novels in the perspective of detestable villains.
schadenfreude." I sort of believe the reason why most of the characters are 2 dimensional is precisely because of who is potraying them, a depraved person.
A depraved person who commits terrible, unforgivable crimes against people.
You merely broke my life")." I don't remember, but this could be the first time he "supplied [words] mentally" in a way that's true and unselfish.
The little daughter in Laughter in the Dark, Lolita at the end the novel, Despair?
He had the same consciousness and feelings that a "K" would have in one of Kafka's novels.
So it’s ironic that his one and only famous – I mean, really famous – novel is about a giant social problem which is always as fresh as today’s headlines, and never gets old, just like those nymphets.LOVE IS THE SWEETEST THINGPerhaps Lolita is VN’s meditation on love.
Because Humbert loves little Lo. He tells us so in such gorgeous sentences that you would have to have a heart of stone not to believe him.
Humbert loves his little Lo. We know because he tells us so.Don’t think I can go on.
Εύλογα έλαβε διαστάσεις μύθου, αφού ο Ναμπόκοφ ως πανεπιστημιακός δάσκαλος αξιοθαύμαστα παραστατικός,μαγνητίζει το κοινό του και το "παίζει" σε ένα παιχνίδι "στημένο" πάνω σε μια διάφανη σκακιέρα.
Ή δέχεσαι την πολυσχιδή και ουσιώδη γραφή του Ναμπόκοφ που συνεχώς με επιδεξιότητα σου θολώνει το μυαλό και τη σκέψη και σε μαγνητίζει σε μια κατάσταση ύπαρξης όπου η τέχνη του γραπτού λόγου είναι μόνο:περιέργεια-τρυφερότητα-ευγένεια και έκσταση, ή το χαρακτηρίζεις βιβλίο μανιακής διαφθοράς και προσβολής της αισθητικής απόλαυσης χωρίς ηθικό δίδαγμα και το κλείνεις πριν τον πρόλογο.
211)I could only dream of aspiring to write descriptions like that, and English is my native language.
There is a lot of tennis in the novel, particularly towards the end leading me to wonder if DFW was a huge Nabakov fan (being similarly obsessed with thr sport.) Here is a description of chess that certainly must have given DFW some inspiration:"I saw the board as a square as of limpid water with rare shells and stratagems rosily visible upon the smooth tessellated bottom, which to my confused adversary was all ooze and squid-cloud." (P.
This is a novel of extraordinary power and beauty in which Nabokov challenges us to read beyond our disgust and fear and live uncomfortably in HH's mind for 300 beautifully written pages.
Warning: contains spoilers for The Murder of Roger Ackroyd, L'âge de raison and this bookI remember seeing an interview with Nabokov, where he was asked what long-term effect he thought Lolita had had.
But Humbert is a smart, educated guy who thinks a lot, and he doesn't seem delusional; I find it plausible that he is more telling the story his way, and working hard to find an interpretation that makes his actions pardonable.
One of the very scariest things about Lolita is that Humbert, in a real sense, loves Lo. However, this results in him raping her and turning her into a child prostitute.
‘It had taken me some forty years to invent Russia and Western Europe, said Nabokov in an interview discussing the creation of the novel, ‘and now I was faced with a similar task, with a lesser amount of time at my disposal.’ Nabokov set about inventing America in prose in Lolita, drawing on his travels and hotel stays with his wife on a butterfly hunting quest through the states to color the world of Humbert and create a true-to-life game board for his literary puzzles.You can always count on a murder for a fancy prose style.While the scintillating cacophony of words are the invention of Nabokov’s, they are also of and through the character of Humbert Humbert.
Sick, twisted and beautiful.Love this.
not really, it’s just that this arrangement made me appreciate various forms of arts especially movies, music and books and then of course, Lolita became as a must-read, while I was exploring the sea of words around the world.
Did Nabokov played a master stroke by pulling off one hilarious passage after another and making the reader laugh Hard while talking about Humbert's vicious intentions?
What was good in my upbringing that I’ve become the person that I’m today and what was/is wrong in the upbringing of Humberts and Lolitas of the world that made them self-destructive?
I recently got into an argument with a friend about Lolita.
I contend that it's one of the most beautiful books ever written, and that it's twice as amazing because Nabakov wrote it in English (which is his second or third language).
To me, this is the same argument that Huck Finn is a racist book because it depicts racism.
I don't think that portraying something is the same as condoning it.Plus, the way Nabakov manipulates language is chillingly beautiful.
Chilling.
So what if half of those chills come from the creep factor of Lolita being a kid?
You see, she had absolutely nowhere else to go.
This is a book I kind of hated and kind of loved, and when I first started writing this review, I did not know how to evaluate it.
So I went through the reviews, and I realized what I wanted to say: it honestly amazes me that anyone is able to read this as a romance.
It's quite clear that this is not meant to be a romance.
even ignoring that it's quite literally about a twelve year old and a thirty-seven year old, it is made SO clear that he kno
I think the reason I enjoyed - or maybe appreciated - this so much was I never thought the narrative was romanticizing what was going on; it was more like an acknowledgement, a book of horror meant to draw its eye.
Lola’s behavior is, at its peak, the behavior of a rebellious twelve-year-old, not the behavior of the seductive, uncaring Lolita Humbert wants us to believe her to be.
I would love to read a retelling of this in which in the end, Lola kills Humbert.
Lolita, Vladimir NabokovLolita is a 1955 novel written by Russian American novelist Vladimir Nabokov.
Later it was translated into Russian by Nabokov himself and published in New York City in 1967 by Phaedra Publishers.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1972 میلادیاین کتاب برای نخستین بار در سال 1955 میلادی در پاریس توسط المپیاپرس به چاپ رسید.
پروفسور از قضا ناپدری «لولیتا» نیز هست.
در پی فاش شدن عشق نامشروع پروفسور به دختر همسر خویش، و مرگ زنش، سفری نامشخص را در کنار «لولیتا» آغاز می‌کند، غافل از آنکه دخترک توسط یک فرد ثروتمند منحرف، اغفال و ناگاه پروفسور را ترک می‌کند.
کتاب در پاریس موهن تشخیص داده شد، و فروش آن قدغن شد.
Watch carefully what he tells us at the start of the novel, and see how what he says tends to be contradicted later on either by himself, or by what the other characters tell us.Nabokov lays it on so thick, that Humbert, who finds 17 year olds abominably "aged", and who talks about a fourteen-year old as :" my aging mistress", appears almost like a caricature.Humbert nurtures a fantasy that a large amount of pubescent and pre-pubescent girls are dangerous demonic little seductresses just ripe and waiting to be picked, whom he dubs "nymphets".There is a lot not to like about this character for most of the novel: In the first sections of the narrative, one learns that he sees women (and actually all humans, for that matter) merely as vehicles to further his own pleasure, to be disposed of if they don't serve his personal interests in some way.
I had to delve into some literary criticism in order to help me understand, and I think what Lolita tries to do is tell a disguting story about a disgusting man using beautiful language.
I think it also speaks to our modern day inclination to want to explain ourselves, as if we could absolve ourselves from the horrors of the crimes we commit if it is understood why we did it.
Listening to the audiobook, although fabulously read by Jeremy Irons, probably meant that the language was lost on me for the most part.
Perhaps revolutionary in its storytelling at the time it was published, but too gross to read today.
Finally marrying a seemingly nice young woman ( but people hide their faults) a Polish doctor's daughter, Valeria, Humbert does not have strong feeling for and she lacks the same thing, it has all the making of a disaster, and is...Monsieur Humbert becomes a scholarly writer with a bad heart, his first volume about French Literature is widely praised.
Later Charlotte says she loves Humbert in an unexpected letter, he marries her to be close to her daughter, the delighted stepfather now has access...A very disturbing novel creepy is the word to describe it, not for everyone, but this has become a masterpiece in literature, not quite respectable , still it cannot be ignored...
This is the fourth Nabokov work I've read in as many weeks, and what I’d really like to do in this review is compare the four books in terms of narrators, literary references, mirror effects, word games, etc - and avoid entirely commenting on the issue of underage sex slaves.
In so far as I understand Nabokov's statement, it conforms to what I believe to have been Proust’s motivation also: a constant searching after the aesthetic quality of experience so that everything in life, however unsavoury, becomes grist to the art-mill.Returning to the imprisoned Albertine theme, there are more parallels than the simple fact that she and Dolores Haze are captives.
There is a recurring temptation to read this as a love story.
But Nabakov allows just enough of the unfiltered (fictional) reality through to make it pretty clear that this is a story about a frightened, terribly abused little hostage and her tormentor.
The characters, at least Lolita and Humbert are brilliant and true.
Lolita is deeply sympathetic, and at points, so is Humbert.
The place of the book is everywhere in motion, and little pinpoints across the country are written about with confidence and clarity.
Ay, Humbert Humbert, qué raro me hace sentir.
Qué incómodo estuve al contemplar su obsceno y quimérico deseo hecho realidad.
Ay, Humbert Humbert, en qué disyuntiva me ha dejado.
Porque, si tanto asco me dio, ¿qué es lo que siento en el pecho?
¿Simpatía?Ay, Humbert Humbert, qué extraño era usted, con ese amor tan vehemente, ese paroxismo fluyente en cada rincón de su anatomía, por su nínfula, su sugestiva fémina prohibida, su manzana edénica.
Ay, Humbert Humbert, quién era usted.
¿O no?; ¿o un nauseabundo depravado que merecía el Eterno Castigo?
Ay, Humbert Humbert, no lo sé...
| از لولیتا که حرف میزنیم، از چه حرف میزنیم؟ | لولیتاشناسی برای عوام/سطح مبتدییک. عکس فوق نمادِ بصری لولیتاست که، در واقع، پوستر فیلمی سینمایی با همین عنوان هست_ساختهی اِستنلی کوبریک، ۱۹۶۲_ و ارتباط دقیقی با رمان و تصویرِ ذهنیِ ناباکوف از این شخصیت ندارهدو. امروزه لولیتا نماد دخترانی است با سه خصیصه: شهوتران، سکسی و البته زیر هجده سال یعنی زیر سن قانونیسه. یه کتاب پرفروشِ انگلیسیزبان هست با عنوان «لولیتاخوانی در تهران» که هیچ ربطی به بحث ما نداره و در مورد وضعیت زنان در ایرانِ پس از انقلابهلولیت
یه کتاب پرفروشِ انگلیسی‌زبان هست با عنوان «لولیتاخوانی در تهران» که هیچ ربطی به بحث ما نداره و در مورد وضعیت زنان در ایرانِ پس از انقلابهلولیتاشناسی برای افراد مردد در آغاز لولیتا/سطح متوسطیک.
از دو ترجمه‌ی موجود، ترجمه‌ی تحسین‌برانگیز خانم پدرام‌نیا رو تهیه کنید؛ به صورت پی‌دی‌اف[با اجازه‌ی مترجم هست] یا دستفروش‌های انقلاب به صورت آفست؛ اگر شانس داشته باشید حتی میشه چاپ اصلی کتاب، نشر زریاب، رو هم گیر آوردلولیتاشناسی برای افراد مصمم در آغاز لولیتا/سطح پیشرفتهیک.
این داستان به همینجا ختم نمیشه بلکه برای لولیتا بودن باید یک‌سری مؤلفه‌های رفتاری هم داشت مثل یکَم بی‌ادبی، پررویی، علاقه به مردان جاافتاده و...
