https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36257.The_Turquoise
DNF at pg. 59.Some people might call it lavish atmosphere, I call it boring meandering filler. Get to the point, Seton.
Superbly written, but this ended up being my least favorite Seton so far. The story was dull for me. None of the main characters held much interest for me, and I didn't care about their respective ambitions.
This is the story of Santa Fe (Fey) Cameron, named after the town she was born in, Santa Fe New Mexico.
When Fey turns 17 she meets Terry Dillon, a handsome, charming but ever so unscrupulous medicine man who is headed back east to make his fortune in New York after having run afoul of something in San Francisco.
Fey's cousin Ewen just misses her once again prior to her marriage to Simeon.
I enjoyed the first part of the book the most, the author did a lovely job of describing old Santa Fe and New Mexico, along with the trip east on the Santa Fe Trail.
The life story of an amazing woman born in Santa Fe. She is a "forgotten" legend of the area.
She has written La Santa's (or Sante Fe or Fey)life as a parable - a life of choices involving the allure of the riches and power of worldly things and the simplicity and strength of the spiritual.
It would behoove us all to be able to so honestly and perceptively review our life and our choices.
The strength in which she took accountability for her choices and the choices she then made for the rest of her life were admirable.
I was excited to read a first edition copy thanks to my good friend, Adam. The book itself felt so wonderful in my hands, and it felt like I was opening a real treasure. The story itself was magical, beginning in Santa Fe, moving to New York City, and ending back in Santa Fe. I loved reading about Fey's trials and tribulations and ultimate redemption. A moving, beautiful story.
I had to pick up this copy at the UBS just to upload the cover.
I’m not sure what possessed me to put this book on my TBR list back in 2009, but THANK GOODNESS I did.
And then I started to read… and I read more and more and next thing I know I’m waking up at 6am so I can pick up where I left off.This is an epic story.
It’s filled with love and heartbreak, gain and loss, and some of the most intelligent, strong, female characters I’ve ever read in a book of this age.
This one is highly, highly recommended by me – and I cannot wait to get to the other Seton book I have here sitting on my desk.
To escape this life Fey marries Terry Dillon, a handsome Irish rogue, only to be abandoned in New York, pregnant and alone.
Fey is determined to make a life for herself and her child and sets her goal to marry Simeon Tower, one of the richest men in the country.
But Fey overcomes his fears and marries him to make a new life for herself and her daughter.
However, as they approach their goal, Terry reappears and blackmails Simeon.
The story escalates from this point as Simeon lose his wealth and their friends fade away.
This was indeed a good story - sad but realistic.
While traveling the Santa Fe Trail, they marry and eventually arrive in Kansas with enough money for train fares to New York City.
Predictably, Terry abandons Fey within days, just before Fey realizes she is pregnant.
Alone, pregnant and without a source of income in the 19th-century metropolis, Fey must make some important decisions quickly.I consider Seton to be one of my favorite authors, but I didn't care much for this book.
I didn't understand why she wanted money so badly, and then why she didn't seem to care much about it when she did have it.
I wanted to see her choose strength of her own to survive and was dismayed that she turned to seducing a powerful and rich man to marry her and in so doing hid her past and who she was behind him.
It beautifully came full circle in the end, and she recovered her turquoise pendant from her childhood and recovered herself.
It’s hard to know the right choices when the cravings for change, intimacy, belonging, security take on shapes that seem promising and full of hope.
Fey even with the “sight” could not make out her own path or stubbornly didn’t want to.
There are some lessons we have to learn the hard way.
Have read 6 other Anya Seton novels and this one and Katherine are my favorites.
The story moves along very rapidly and has some of her very best characters in addition to Fey the strong heroine in the novel.
Even the 19th century historical settings in Santa Fe and NYC as well as travel between them gives you a wide ranging look at the country and conditions and concerns at that time, as well as her own life among so many different types and classes of people, from a poor Mexican family to the super wealthy in New York.
She was named for the city of her birth, Santa Fe, but her father called her Fey. Her mother died in childbirth so she lived the first years of her life with her father who was a Scottish doctor.
Later, when Fey was about 7, her father was killed when he went to help a fellow doctor with a surgery.
There are so many things that Fey went through in her life.
He said she would encounter two paths and the Spirit would help her choose the right one - unfortunately, Fey didn't listen.
I look forward to reading more of Anya Seton's works.
However, whereas in Swerlings works the main character is the city itself, Seton's book leads the reader on a more singular journey with her main character.
I believe that a good book entertains with its story and that is often satisfying enough, but a great book reveals a universal truth in such a way as to find relevance in the reader's life no matter what stage of life they are in.
This book has a lot of elements that I was afraid I wouldn't enjoy, but somehow Seton managed to put them all together into a really engrossing story.
Magical elements (psychic foreboding, etc), pre-Me Too era romance, the "Wild West" - but it actually just works.
The story follows her choices, good and bad, and explores a lot of "what if" possibilities.
It's not perfect and it's a little bit overly moralistic at the end for my tastes, but it was almost impossible to put this book down.
I really enjoyed the writing style.
It was a good read. Anya Seton is a great author. It's about a young girl born of Mexican and Scottish aristocracy, but when her parents die, she is on her own. She makes bad choices (like we all do), but in the end, she redeems herself.
I enjoyed it thoroughly, though a time or two there was a hint of Harlequin Romance (I have never read one). An enjoyable story.
Not Anya Seton's best. The beginning was promising; the descriptions of New Mexico were vivid. I also liked the ending, where Fey comes to terms with being responsible for the choices she made. However, throughout the middle I found myself wanting the story to be over. If you're new to Anya Seton, don't start out with this one. Try Katherine or perhaps Avalon or The Winthrop Woman first. Move onto this if you enjoy those.
Her full name was Santa Fe Cameron and she was different things to different people.Her Scottish father called her Fey. Her Spanish foster family enveloped her in their poverty-stricken lives, but she came to choose her own direction with strength and the firm conviction that her mother was from Spanish blue-blood just as her father was from Scottish blue-blood.She found her way to New York through marriage to a charming and handsome young man who left her there to pursue his own wishes.
To escape the doldrums of her life in the west she hooks up with a carpet bagger hustler named Terry, who agrees to take her along on the Santa Fe trail as he heads east.
Here occurs one of the "if only's" of the story -- if only she'd stayed one more day in Santa Fe, her life could have been totally different.
Fey looks forward to a happy life with Terry in New York, but such is not to be.
On the third try her kinsman from Scotland finally reaches her and helps her dig out from under the rubble of her New York life.
I had little or no empathy with the main characters and there is also a side story, regarding Fey's ancestry, which felt like it ought to have developed into a more complete sub-plot, but it just kind of peters out without really adding anything to the whole.
I think maybe I would have got more enjoyment out of the story if I had read it when I was younger - the descriptive passages are colourful and evocative of the time, the romance is well handled, and I think these attributes might have appealed to a younger me.
I am a huge fan of Anya Seton's Katherine, and I would go as far as to credit it for my deep love of historical fiction.
In my eyes, The Turquoise just did not live up to that level of writing, engagement, and character development.
A good premise and a strong beginning, but it quickly became a very stereotypical, Victorianesque, maudlin story with a somewhat disappointing ending.No doubt Seton does historical fiction well in terms of detail, but this would not be the first book of hers I would try.
However, don't write her work off completely!
I love historical fiction and I've chosen this book as a pick-me-up read right after devouring Milan Kundera's The Unbearble Lightness of Being.
The book was an easy read, it reminded me of Gone With the Wind and somehow I'm not lost to this plot at all.
The good thing about this book is that it sporadically shifts out of the normal descriptive part where some authors liberally enjoy and do, Seton's book is different in the terms of adding a bit of reality in the book putting a personal touch to it.
Another good Seton novel,though this one is only loosely based on fact and in a much more contemporary setting than most of her books, it's set in the mid 1800's. The main character reminds me a lot of Scarlett from Gone with the Wind, which means she's kind of selfish and ruthless.The story is entirely readable though not as good as some of her other novels, say, Green Darkness or Avalon.
This book was a really good read. i loved how the story flowed was always interesting and never dull. It follows through the life of Fay from where she came to what she became. i did not like that she tried to run from who she was and how easily she could be diverted. However i wouldn't want this story any other way. i was surprised picking up this book had spanish in it and it was written very well into the dialogue.
Anya Seton does a great job of introducing the reader to the early citizens of New Mexico and 19th century New York. This novel addresses the problems of social class in both areas. It also addresses the struggle the heroine has in dealing with her conflicting backgrounds. The plot is somewhat predictable, but I enjoyed the background research the author had done.
Clever presentation of a mystical heroineI always enjoy Anya Set on and her writing. Was some disappointed in all the typos in the production of this book. The price seemed high for such poor work.
This book didn't grab me as much as Seton's other books. I think it's because I didn't think Fey's love and attraction for Terry were very believable. I felt she was smarter than the dumb decisions she made.
This was an enjoyable book by an author who was one of my favorites when I was a teenager. It was enjoyable to read but in many ways seemed dated especially in its stereotyping of various ethnic groups.
:)
I enjoyed this book even though it was old fashioned and a moral tail about social climbing/ financial wealth at all cost.
