https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31450638-a-rumor-of-war
The variety in these memoirs and fictional portrayals makes it clear how complex the issues are, both in the general topic of men at war and the situation of different people at different times and locations during the war.
Caputo experienced the beginning of the McNamara and Westmoreland’s policy of judging daily progress in the war by body counts and ratios of enemy to American deaths, but the whole scam of inflated figures I believe took longer to emerge.
In sum, this war memoir is a well written, accessible, and revelatory account of the early experience of regular combat soldiers in Vietnam.
But I will never forget it.A Rumor of War was a book I took from my brother's shelf some time after we were both in college and he no longer had any need for it.
In many ways I'm glad I waited until now to read this book; had I read it in high school I would likely have not understood as much or had the right amount of focus to give to it.
As I write this, eleven years after your death, the country for which you died wishes to forget the war in which you died.
(In Vietnam it was called the American War.) Two years is a short time for the healing of wounds so some of the wounds detailed in this book are still ugly and bloody.This is a personal story of a boy becoming a man, a boy who volunteered to become a Marine, seeing it as his patriotic duty, and became a man in the process.
The men like Philip Caputo who write the books like A Rumor of War are the ones who live to tell the story.
How many war stories are untold by the thousands of men of come home damaged and remain mute for the rest of their lives?
His view is naturally that of a small unit commander with the largest body of men under him a platoon of infantry.
He describes in detail what it was like to go out on patrol, and the effect the body count process had on the psychology of himself and his men.
It contains details of his experiences on patrol, in ambush, assault, time on base and on leave.
It is not an analysis of the Vietnam/2nd Indochina War but does clearly show what he thought and felt about the conflict which naturally changes as his war experience grew.
Caputo writes about his experiences that led him to enlist in 1965 in order to satisfy his romantic ideals about war.
But throughout these experiences Caputo loses his illusion and romantic ideals and begins to question the validity of the war and the reasoning that fuels the war.
But the beauty of the book lies in the details: the stifling heat, the insects, the fatigue, constant worry about snipers and booby traps, an enemy that is indistinguishable from the noncombatant general population, inept officers caught up in the bottom line of kills, lack of the basic joys of life, and so on.
Months spent sleeping in foxholes deep in VC territory, dozens of fellow soldiers killed in the bloodiest ways imaginable right in front of him, and finally, participation in obscene war crimes.
A brief respite in the rear command base, tallying the numbers of MIAs and KIAs and WIAs just makes him feel worse, and soon, like many of his fellow soldiers, Caputo is on the edge of losing his mind.
But I don't think so." But the effect of reading the book is a deep reconsideration of one's feelings about soldiers and about war.
He doesn't really give any support to that claim other than to remark that American soldiers were being killed, but it is just not truthful to say that anyone could have known at that stage what the outcome of the war was to be, particularly when the loss took place on campuses of America's colleges rather than in the jungles of Vietnam.
He also argued that because a small minority of soldiers in Vietnam committed brutal, illegal acts (himself included) the war was wrong.
The generals in Vietnam were the same guys who were soldiers in WWII and Korea.
Caputo's book doesn't need another review.
The doctor and I think in terms of human suffering, not statistics." AND THIS WAS IN 1965, before things really got going in Vietnam.
If you want to know what the BS about body counts was--that ended up in a lawsuit by General Westmoreland against Mike Wallace of 60 Minutes, if you want to know what Vietnam was like because you are too young to have learned about it during that time in America and the world's history, read this book.

Herr's perspective is that of what we nowadays probably would call an embedded journalist.
He accompanied the Vietnam war as a journalist for the Esquire, and while his account is disturbing in it's own way A Rumor Of War is even harder on the reader in that respect, as Caputo signed up for the USMC and was amongst the first US troops to be deployed.
So you're not only confronted with the sheer brutality of war itself, but you get an account of someone who not was in place, but actively engaged in doing morally ambiguous and I'd argue even outright wrong actions.
Easy read.
He had some good points on war that of course never having been through a war - I would never have thought about.It wasn't as philosophical or even maybe horrific as I needed.
He didn't sell me on why exactly did the Vietnam war effect men's psyches more than other wars.
I guess that's what I was looking for.
To understand their psyche.
He only would delve into that a few times.
I guess I felt this book was a good overall view on the Vietnam war.
But really it didn't make me feel a whole lot and didn't make me think a whole lot either.
Tim O'Brien arguably wrote the best work of fiction about the Vietnam war in The Things They Carried. To me, Philip Caputo inarguably wrote its best memoir. Unlike more recent attempts in the genre, Caputo's account of combat is never blinkered, gung-ho, or glamourised. Blunt as a boulder, vivid, and unforgettable, I rate it higher than even Michael Herr's Dispatches.
The first covers his reasons for enlisting in the Marine Corps prior to the war and his initial deployment as part of the first ground combat unit of the Vietnam War. Part two covers Caputo being reassigned to an office job keeping track of the casualty reports – a gut-wrenching task as he continued to hear his friends’ names on the other end of the line.
Philip Caputo’s A Rumor of War puts you in those positions, and you will end the book with a whole new perspective of those men who faced an unbelievable challenge both physically and mentally.
Although I'm giving this book 5 stars, it's a little hard for me to simply say that I enjoyed it.
Books such as this one strip the make up off and describe every horrific detail.
It isn't just mud and rain that soldiers trudge through.
Imagine being envious of someone who's been badly wounded or even killed by shrapnel from a bomb.
Imagine digging graves for bodies that show up by the truckload, day after day.
This is the type of war you'll learn about here.
This book is not for the faint of heart.
Read the more recent author's Prologue last night.- The author says that Vietnam was the first war "lost" by The United States.
You had to be there to really appreciate how f'ing scary-silly the military can be at times.I spent most of my reading time last night getting close to the end of this.
If you want to get a pretty good outside perspective and understanding of "what it was like" to be a grunt in the perilous jungles of Vietnam, this is the book for you.
This is certainly one of the books to read if you're inclined to learn about Vietnam.- Mentions Portsmouth(NH)'s Naval(and Marine) prison.
I found the beginning of this utterly fascinating, but then tired of the narrative. And so moving on. That should not be taken as a criticism of the book, but only of my interests and my own restlessness.
This is far less flashy than many VN books, with much minutiae about the rear echelon bureaucracy of “war,” which I (being the granddaughter of a general and daughter of a colonel) happily slogged through.
I have military acronyms in my DNA.The visual picture of Vietnam in the pages of this book, and the descriptions of the weather - which for soldiers was a special circle of hell - were so vivid that I can literally smell that humid jungle rot odor that clung to the footlockers my dad and brother brought home.
How is it possible to love a book about hell.
A Rumor of War is Philip Caputo’s frank and compelling memoir of his transformation from excitable undergraduate to experienced infantry officer amid the humid misery of South Vietnam.Raised in the suburban serenity of Westchester Illinois, where the lulling drone of lawn mowers sought to anaesthetise his youth, Caputo was like generations of young men before him; eager for adventure, eager to be tested and absolutely terrified of being found wanting.
Their good intentions on dealing with the local population, spoiled by the fact that their opposition was embedded with that same local population and using that as their striking ground for their attacks on Caputo and his marines.
And the two commanders contrast with Rick Atkinson's description of the general of the 101st Airborne during the 2003 invasion of Iraq, whose recognition of facts on the ground which higher levels were denying changed the way the 101st went into battle.This was a good war book, not one that focused on glory or horrors, but what it meant for men on a battlefield to deal with all the unknowns of war.
Things this book does: - Delves deep into the psyche of a soldier in combat- Looks brazenly at the emotional and psychological toll of turning boys into killers for the state- Airs out the truth about how vicious US policy in Vietnam was from the earliest days of the war- Grapples with the utter futility and meaningless of the staggering death toll on both sides of the war- Scares the reader about how easy it is for humans to descend into carnage under the wrong circumstances- Casts undeniable gloom and doubt over the USA's whole military and imperial operationThings this book does not do: - Give any historical background or context for the Vietnam War- Delve deeply into the humanity of the Vietnamese victims of the war- Speculate or describe the Vietnamese version of events in any way- Describe the worst of the atrocities inflicted on the entire nation of Vietnam as a result of this warI highly recommend this book for the former category of things it accomplishes, and would love recommendations for the latter.
More strictly, it is a soldier’s account of our longest conflict, the only war we have ever lost, as well as the record of a long sometimes painful personal experience."In the afterward of the book Caputo tells us that he really wanted to “…make people uncomfortable-in effect, to blow them out of their snug polemical bunkers into confusing, disturbing emotional and moral no-man’s-land where we warriors dwelled…to experience the snipers, booby traps, and ambushes.
Above all, I wanted to communicate the moral ambiguities of conflict in which demons and angels traded places too often to tell one from the other, even within yourself."
I just finished A Rumor of War by Philip Caputo, which amply deserves 4 stars.
What a powerful book.
This memoir about Vietnam gives the reader a virtual, firsthand experience of war, with all its violence, boredom, suffering, terror and thrills.
The author is brutally honest and insightful, and the passages about the morality of war and the seesawing between hatred and guilt that he experiences are extremely thought-provoking.
I must admit that I skimmed through some of the detailed day-to-day descriptions in the middle of the book.
But the last few chapters and the epilogue are must-reads.
Not an easy book, but very worthwhile.
Tremendously powerful memoir of a 2nd lieutenant in the Marines who was in the first wave of Marines coming into Vietnam in March of 1965. From gung-ho teenagers to hardened cynical veterans in just a few months, this book shows, in no uncertain terms, the misery and futility of the war and the damage it did to all the participants and non-combatants alike. Read it in conjunction with Patriots: An Oral History of Vietnam (which is told in interviews with US troops, ARVN, Viet Cong, North Vietnamese Regulars, Antiwar Protestors, Westmorland, MacNamara and many others)
For years, I'd been scared away from reading this because of the terrible movie that had been made from it in the 80s. Glad I finally followed through. Terrific writing from a conscientious agent, trapped - like so many marines/GIs - in a war that made so little sense, especially when contrasted with the wars of their fathers and grandfathers. Caputo's prose in lovely, well-paced and lucid. I put it right up there with Michael Herr's "Dispatches."
A quick read as a Vietnam autobiography from a Marine, Phillip Caputo (the book's author) and his 16 month tour in Vietnam. I felt in addition to describing North Vietnamse snipers, it best describes what survival constituted a Marine experienced, the horrors of the muddy jungle, constant insects I didn't expect always on your body, heat/sweat to endure, what it was like without/lack of sleep and watching your the person next to you killed.
As the casualty lists got ever longer with nothing to show for them, a weary cynicism rapidly began to set in, and a disillusionment with the lack of progress, purpose or plan from those in high command: "The measures of a unit's performance in Vietnam were not the distances it had advanced or the number of victories it had won, but the number of enemy soldiers it had killed (the body count) and the proportion between that number and the number of its own dead (the kill ratio)." He chronicles both the callousness and futility of the war (casual killings of civilians, endless sweeps of the war ravaged Vietnamese wilderness) and the inhumanity displayed by many of the participants in it.
My late husband was in that first batch of Marines who were sent from Okinawa to fight in Vietnam in March 1965, and he was very possibly the Pfc Buchanan who Lt. Caputo found in terror, firing his rifle into the darkness on their first night bivouacked in the jungle, putting himself in danger of being located by the enemy from his muzzle flashes.
Those guys will always have my admiration and, I hope, some understanding of what the war did to them and why.Highly recommended!!!
This is the best book I have read from the Vietnam era. I think this is because it is written from a perspective that is easier for me to relate to. From a different time and a different age we have some shared experiences.
This was a bit tough to start. Once I get about 25% of the way through I was hooked and able to push through easily. Mr. Caputo writes in a style that is both very descriptive and easy to follow. I truly felt as though I was right there with him in Vietnam. This story also serves as a cautionary tale. Regardless of your political or ideological views this is a must read.
Places you in the mind and body of the early parts of the war, but treads too lightly in the moral landscape to be more moving than interesting.
