https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/729630.Seabird
Read with a third child...just lovely!
Holling tells a multi-generational story about fatherhood, the wonders of the natural world, the joy of discovery, and the pride of hard work, all in 27 single-page chapters.
whaling?Does this book work in 2017?Yes, I say it does.
Holling provides detailed descriptions of whaling.
If a student was reading this book, I would gently comment on these topics, but I think the benefits of the lessons on progress and striving for better are well worth it.The only piece I wish had been handled a little differently is the omission of women.
I wish Holling had been more complete in that regard.
This childrens' book looks at "ships" across 4 generations, from a whaling ship powered by sails, to a "ship" that flies. I liked the multi-generational and historical aspects of the book, but of course didn't enjoy the whaling part of it. The illustrations were just beautiful.
We're not liking this one as well as we did Paddle-to-the-Sea. Maybe I didn't do my homework well enough, but I didn't know the first part of the book was about a whaling ship.
We're reading along and they kill a whale and start stripping the blubber off and boiling it down and it gets a little gruesome.
My boys all looked a little green in the gills for a while.I'll let you know how we like the rest once we finish it.Okay, we finished it.
We liked the book better as we went along, but it still didn't captivate us like Paddle-to-the Sea did.
Another H C H classic natural science "living book". Sea Bird takes us on a wonderful adventure through the shipping industry beginning with whaling and ending with actual flight in planes. Who would have thought so much change could happen over one lifetime and through four generations? The beginning whaling chapters weren't exactly our favorite but the story did pick up for us after that. There's a wonderful unit study resource at www.homeschoolshare.com that can be used along with this book.
Holling's books are beautifully written and illustrated, bringing history and geography to life. This one is best for 8 and up as the technical sailing details make it a little more difficult to follow.
Ezra, Ship's Boy on a whaling vessel in 1830, sights a pure white bird in a snowstorm while on watch in the crow's nest.
Inspired, he creates Seabird, a scrimshaw masterpiece made from walrus tusk.
Seabird travels with Ezra and his descendants--a sailor, an engineer, and an airman--over the course of a century.
Holling's description of the wind, waves and sky made me long to sail in a clipper, but the whaling vessel would be less than pleasant.
Thank goodness the need for whale oil is past!
I can't think of a better way for children to learn about these bygone occupations than through a story.
Difficult to explain the format Hollingsworth used to captivate me for years with this book.
Large format book with exquisite illustrations, with detailed miniatures all around the margins.
Story begins with a boy aboard a tall-masted whaling ship and the ivory gull, Seabird, carved by a sailor for him.
Grippingly text and gorgeous illustrations depicts all about whales, whalers, processing, and goes on to two more generations of seamen, each handing Seabird to their son, ending with Seabird being passed to the great grandson on board a steamship.
Cross sections of ships and lots of information about sea life captivated me.
Holling always sucks me in. His books start a bit sluggish for me but I’m always delighted by the end. These delightful generations of ‘ships’ and their owners cover so many facets of learning all tied together. Seabird is my new friend.
A good story with insight to the Whaling Industry during its high. We did this as part of our geography lessons and I enjoyed the book way more than the lessons that accompanied the book. The drawings are so very good. Holling Clancy Holling books are treasures.
3.5⭐️
Pagoo is still my favorite Hollings' ever, but Seabird might be second.
Good history lessons, good science lessons, both in the story and in the illustrated margins, and good illustrations. The only reason I didn't love this book was because I dislike whaling intensely. That and the disjointed appearance of the gull.
This book is something to see for the illustrations and the transition from sail.
The text is definitely a bit dated.
It starts out charming, but, the whaling portions will be disturbing to many.
Additionally, it's very patriarchal, only Ezra's wife gets a mention and the rest of them have neither illustration or name attached to them.
BUT, if you can look past all of that, the illustrations are pretty cool as is the history of sailing.
This book makes me want to look into other books by Holling in hopes of finding one similarly illustrated but more palatable for present day readers.
It's been years since I've read a book by Holling Clancy Holling.
The detail remains fascinating and the illustrations incredible.
The story was sadder than I remembered, however.
There is so much detail and focus on Ezra right before and after he makes Seabird, and then all of a sudden the years are flying by at an incredible rate and so much is summed up in so few words.Something I had never noticed before was that the women in the story are nameless and faceless.
They were a part of my childhood and remain fascinating.
My children couldn't wait to see where Seabird would go the next day.
This man's books are worth owning, as my kids want to start over and read them again.
This book spans a little more than a century, following first a whaling ship (He even talks about how they used to skin the whale and make oil from blubber.
It's such a taboo topic these days, that that part of history is rarely talked about).
He moved from a whaler to a clipper to a steam ship to a cruise liner.
So, so worth reading.
This was a solid story about the changes in the shipping industry over the hundred years between the mid-1800's and the mid-1900's. It was also a story about wonder, adventure, curiosity, respect for what is past as well as embracing the innovative.
Readers learn the thrill of magic, of passion, and of wisdom.
All these thrills are told in Holling's beautiful language, paralleled with his talent in capturing the tale in vivid illustrations and indepth diagrams that bring the language of the sea to life.
The range of audiences may be one of the most intriguing aspects of the book.
And while the magical side of the tale and the sense of wonder in travels and exploration are obtainable for young readers, the symbolism and life lessons of the tale may be unrelatable.
But, that same reason describes why this book can be enjoyed by older readers as well.
Without a doubt the best thing about this book was the intricate diagrams and illustrations.
Before reading this book, the ins and outs of whaling during the 19th century were completely unknown to me.
I did find it disturbing to see illustrations of such magnificent animals being butchered but this is how it was done and this book is a powerful educational tool.
When learning about this period of history in school I never thought to consider how gas lamps were fueled.
It was a lucrative trade back then and our desire for fuel almost harpooned whales out of existence.
Our first official read-aloud for 2010-2011.
N loved it and wanted to give it 5 stars because of the characters, she says.
I gave her the choice...was it the pictures, the language, the characters, the subject?
The characters.
Especially Seabird.
I found the language soothing, introducing me to ship language that I've been exposed to before, but always find a little mysterious.
Loved the passage of mentoring through four generations.B wanted to give it 3.5 stars.
He thought it was a good book, he says, but thought the same thing happened over and over and over again.
The artwork by Holling Clancy Holling is simply unparalleled, or if rivaled by anyone at all, then only by Robert Lawson and perhaps Garth Williams at his best.
The deep, thought-povoking story, combined with the majestic pictures that caused me to gasp when turning most pages like a new present being opened on Christmas morning, give this story a value beyond what I ever expected when I first decided to read it.
Seabird is eminently worthy of its Newbery Honor citation, and is a truly and regally magnificent story.
I learned of Holling as a boy. His "Paddle to the Sea" was my favorite book growing up. This book is similar in that it tells a family's story through the eyes of "Seabird" - an ivory gull carved in walrus tusks - from the patriarch's beginnings aboard a whaling ship. Seabird travels with one family member after another on voyages of discovery. You'll learn the intricacies of whaling and clipper ships, engines and airplanes, oceans and nature. Holling's illustrations are exceptional. Be sure to peruse the detailed line drawings surrounding the text. Recommended.
This is a classic story with breathtaking illustrations that will be impressed in your brain for a long time to come. "Seabird" is like taking a journey around the world with just a turn of the page. Sea and sky and ships and sailors all come to life in the book that shows a beautiful snapshot during the age of clipper ships and the dashing souls who manned them. A must read! Children love it!
Another wonderful book by Holling Clancy Holling about "Seabird" - a mascot for a whole family of famous captains. The text is riveting with the latest adventures and the illustrations are also beautiful. Another wonderful work of classic children's literature that no family should miss.Recommend for: Older Elementary. Little ones may enjoy depending on their interest in the topic.
Like all good children's literature (and film as well), Holling Clancy Holling's books are delightful for adults as well as kids of all ages. Younger children love to have his books read to them, and older ones love to read them, which is kind of a bummer because then the adults don't get to read them anymore. Seabird is just what the title implies. All of his books instill a love for nature.
I didn't think I was going to like this as much as Pagoo and Paddle but we got to the end of the book and were all a little choked up. I just love Holling C Holling. The illustrations are always wonderful and the story is always poignant. The kids loved it too.
This is one of those books (and the rest of the books by this author as well) that the boys went back to again and again to read and just look at the pictures. They absorbed so much because they loved the book. That's worth a lot.
Loved reading through this story about a history through a family's eyes. So much information about whaling and more in surprisingly few pages that perfectly captures the lives of the characters within. Really a treasure.
A beautiful multi-generational story about the lives of boys becoming men on the sea with Seabird at their sides. Georgeous illustrations. We loved the story and felt like we were there living the tales.
The descriptions of whaling disturbed my daughter so much we didn't finish the book. My son was fine with it. Overall, an interesting history of early ships and commerce. My kids were most impressed that the main character Ezra lived over 100 years! He must have been a tough old salt.
