https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588234.Ceremony
3.5 starsThis book was so gorgeous, I think I would have loved it had I not been speed reading/skimming it for class.
The criticism of colonialism and white men taking the natives' land and just being so violent in the first place to start wars was really intriguing to read about from this perspective, and I think it's really valuable material.
Maybe when I reread it (I bought a copy for myself), then I'll be able to pick up on more and raise my rating, because it genuinely is a beautiful book and I thought Tayo's inner conflicts and his thought process was brilliant.
But after the white people came, elements in this world began to shift; and it became necessary to create new ceremonies.
That's what the witchery is counting on: that we will cling to the ceremonies the way they were, and then their power will triumph, and the people will be no more."I found myself in the book, in the story about witch* people and how white settlers were created in a contest to show off the scariest thing possble.
. It is significant that the witch people of Silko's story are not gendered.
From that time on, human beings were one clan again, united by the fate the destroyers planned for all of them, for all living things; united by a circle of death that devoured people in cities twelve thousand miles away, victims who had never known these mesas, who had never seen the delicate colors of the rocks which boiled up their slaughter" (246).
On the inside back flap of this edition of Ceremony, there is a series of praise quotes, including this from the New York Time: "Without question Leslie Marmon Silko is the most accomplished Native American writer of her generation. . . " On the back cover, Sherman Alexie writes, "Ceremony is the greatest novel in Native American literature."I get all tense with exasperation when I read these comments. But then Sherman goes on to say what needs to be said about this novel:  "It is one of the gre
On the inside back flap of this edition of Ceremony, there is a series of praise quotes, including this from the New York Time: "Without question Leslie Marmon Silko is the most accomplished Native American writer of her generation.
" On the back cover, Sherman Alexie writes, "Ceremony is the greatest novel in Native American literature."I get all tense with exasperation when I read these comments.
"Without question Leslie Marmon Silko is the most accomplished writer of her generation.
Tayo, a young soldier of mixed heritage, returns to the Laguna Pueblo Reservation after World War II.
nothing about this book is easy but there is a wholeness in it that is real, it is the way the world is, a full circle, a deep pattern.
and the relief at knowing that we're not crazy, that the way it feels inside is a real thing and there is a healing available to us even with all the pain.
i feel a deep empathy for the characters (and the real people) who have to look at the land every day and know that it has been stolen.
Another archaeological excavation of some Southern Californian tribes showed that they were driving certain species of bird to extinction until the point when smallpox reached them and they themselves were wiped out.This isn't to say the Europeans saved the animals or any such thing, merely that there is likely no people that is 'in touch with nature'.
This pessimism should be no surprise to anyone who is familiar with the current position of Natives--poverty and hardship are understandably common themes in Native fiction.Silko's is an early work in the movement, and like many such, it struggles with finding a voice.
It's a perfectly nice first novel, it's a story we all like (returning hero is so badly damaged as to be paralyzed emotionally, finds himself by reconnecting to his deep roots and confronting his past), and it's been very very well edited and honed and massaged into shape.It isn't a classic, sorry to say in the face of so much praise for it over the years, and it's not one bit better than A Farewell to Arms (his best book) or The Naked and the Dead or The Yellow Birds or Phoenix Rising.It's a perfectly decent novel.
Pretty it is, speech it ain't:Josiah said that only humans had to endure anything, because only humans resisted what they saw outside themselves.
Brutal and hard reading at points, but wow the language is magnificent and the theme of healing overall and the escape from white supremacy, trauma, and capitalism is inspiring. Absolutely brilliant overall, super recommended.
And what little still remained to white people was shriveled like a seed hoarded too long, shrunken past its time, and split open now, to expose a fragile, pale leaf stem, perfectly formed and dead.
3.5 stars.
I won't lie, this book deserves more than 3.5 stars.
Probably 5 stars.
Like i really tried but I felt so indifferent and i partly blame the narrative.
All in all, this is a really great book, and maybe in the future , i might take it up to read again (very unlikely) but slowly and comprehensively this time.
There are also some other men on the reservation that are WWII vets and are damaged in their own ways.Apparently based on a series of short stories Silko was given a grant from the National Endowment of the Arts, a federal agency in the U.S. that is currently under threat, and this grant allowed her to write this novel.
He also says that her next novel took her 10 years to write.
I'm going to be thinking about this novel for a long time.
Time sequence is broken over and over again in the novel, and yet the movement of the story from beginning to end feels as propulsive and climactic as any linear story.
There are no sharp edges between the characters, either--rather than having any sense of autonomous 'self' they are defined instead by their relationship to one another.
I didn't feel this novel was written to explain something to me.
I felt instead that Silko wrote exactly and uniquely to her purpose.
She wrote something entirely new.
In the interest of full disclosure I will admit to a degree of standoffishness (not sure whether thats a word but accurate in any sense) from the text stemming from the moment my professor championed it as a 'great' book that we were all certain to enjoy -- after we've read 50 or so pages!
Probably as a result of my Western education, the medicine men and chants all seemed quite hokey but I presume we should draw a connection between the way we idealize 'true' history and the fantastical beliefs held by the Indians, perhaps a necessary invention given their ignominious treatment in America.I'm cautious not to appear pouty in this review, I'm just a dude who loves to read so far be it from me to take a 'holier-than-thou' approach towards a critically cherished text.
And what little still remained to white people was shriveled like a seed hoarded too long, shrunken past its time, and split open now, to expose a fragile, pale leaf stem, perfectly formed and dead.I circled the page that this was on...and for those of you who don't know, that is a very big deal because I never ever make marks in my books.
This book has definitely made its way onto my bookshelf to stay, and I would highly recommend it to those of you who look for good Native American fiction or for those of you who like to soak yourself in some rich and vivid language every now and then.
This novel is much more than a look at young Native American men shortly after the Second World War and the tension between the traditional/rural and the modern/urban among Native Americans.
It is great literature, the best Native American novel I’ve read.Silko keeps the reader from feeling in any way comfortable in the world she portrays.
It’s a sometimes harrowing novel, in which the reader experiences a good bit of the pain and disorientation the protagonist feels.
My only criticism is that the novel would have been better if the third-person narrator had not occasionally left the protagonist to look into other characters.
Instead I'm just going to rant about how great it is.Look, there are exceptions to what I am talking about here, but I'm pretty cynical about white American authors writing American Indian/Native American stories.
Sometimes I feel bad about my cynicism, and the fact that when choosing a book about Native American/American Indian issues the author's nationality/race absolutely does matter to me...but then I read things like THIS BOOK, which is completely awesome and which puts colonialism in my white-reader face in a way that, say, Barbara Kingsolver seems incapable of doing.
The superiority of white people -- the notion that this particular race towers over other races -- is merely a construction, so it is possible to deconstruct it.
This I learn smoothly from the suffering of Tayo, the main character, a native american, who despite having fought in a war for Uncle Sam side by side with other American citizens, didn't come home a hero but found himself shamefully marginalized just like the rest of his tribe.
Through a spiritual journey in a form of ceremonies he presented for himself and his ancestors, he managed to regain the pride of himself in particular, and of his people in general.
Truly useful for the sometimes inferior me.
Once Tayo begins to accept treatment at the hands of an elderly shaman, the narrative structure settles down - and then Silko does something really magical: a major portion of the story happens in a way that only makes sense - retrospectively - within a worldview that sees the spirit and the material world as constantly interconnected.
Because it is only evident after the fact that Tayo's world has merged the spirit and the material, a reader who doesn't start with a cultural frame of seeing these worlds as overlapping can be eased into it by the narrative, and only realize after the fact that they've been gifted a double vision.
Ce que je retiens, surtout, c'est la vénération tranquille du livre pour la nature, son attachement aux histoires, mais aussi sa violence & sa rage, une espèce de colère pesante qui ne se laisse pas apaiser par les quelques notes d'espoir de la fin.
Il y a peut-être quelque chose d'un peu cliché dans la façon dont la spiritualité laguna est présentée -- mais pour ce que j'en sais, c'est peut-être d'une authenticité qui me semble seulement suspecte parce que j'y connais absolument rien.
I hate this book with everything I have.
This was the absolute worst book I have EVER read.
Maybe that's why I put off reviewing this book for so long.
I just don't want to ever have to pick up this book again, let alone revisit it.
I can't remember hating a book this much ever - it was that bad.
Or at least that's all the book talks about.
Ugh.◉More on that:Want to remember the plot or what is attempting to be one?
I hate this book so much.Please do yourself a huge favor and never read this.
This 1980 American Book Award winner pops up on Best Of lists, and it's gotten the Penguin Deluxe Classics treatment, but it's just okay for me.
I liked that the love interest, Ts'eh, was (view spoiler)[imaginary; I thought Silko did a good job of leaving it  (hide spoiler)] ambiguous (view spoiler)[ as to whether she was an actual god (or whatever) or just a figment of his tortured imagination.
I respect what Silko's up to here: it's a well-written book that achieves what it set out to.
Rocky is the family star, the designated "most likely to succeed" out in the real world of the White Man. Therefore, when he loses Rocky, not only is he losing is best friend and cousin, but he is also seen as the one who should have not come back.
It is easy for them to blame the white man for their loss of status, the loss of self-respect and going farther back, their loss of land and therefore of a style of living.Among all this loss, all this anger and confusion, come shreds of old Native American songs floating in, sprinkling the story with a second layer.
It couldn't be more necessary in a time when over 20% of the world's species are living ghosts, over 50% are facing extinction, global warming will threaten the (human) population in the hundreds of millions along coastlines and in areas that are increasingly desertifying.Much less, I would recommend this book to every gringo I know.
In my reading, I was presented with a story that I had never known before and would never venture to know were I not willing to step outside the comfort-bounds of my privilege.
It is a story of the shame, pain, faith and humility that he and those in his life experience in this journey.
Ceremony is one of those books that I can't believe people enjoy reading.
The author has the book structured in a very confusing manner.
Multiple different stories are jumbled together and they run on throughout the book.
These stories are separated by an indentation, but the author almost a expects the reader to remember everything read.
Aside from being confusing, Ceremony also has a terrible plot.
The book starts off about a boy who is tormented by WW2 memories, but then the plot seems to become nothing more than rant towards the white culture.
Do not read this book if you have a choice.
i had recalled reading this book in a Native American Lit class.
clearly, i hadn't.
the structure of the book is interesting.
the beginning 1/3 made me narcoleptic - i fell asleep at least five times.
that said, i understand and appreciate the fractured narrative that matches Tayo's fractured psyche.
the issues explored are still quite relative today with the Army recruiting minorities and later have a disregard for returning veteran's mental health.
Tayo's quest to root himself in his culture is moving.
Silko doesn't give easy answers as their are none.
but a very interesting novel unlike anything i have read.
I didn't know what to really expect from this book, and as it continued I still didn't really know what to expect.
It was more difficult to get through than I anticipated, since the first half of the book constantly switched narratives without any warning, and some events were left for you to infer.
But the second half was more consistent and focused mostly on the main character, and went faster.
There were parts and lines I really enjoyed, but overall this just wasn't the book for me.
I think it would benefit from rereading, but I do not plan to do so.
I read this book for high school, and at the time, did not like it. As an adult and a feminist (both things that I was not back then), I return to this book over and over as an example of a woman speaking about her experience and the experience of the people around her. I remember the story very clearly, something that speaks to a well written novel, and compare other fiction to this as an example of excellent creative storytelling.
Anyone who knows me knows I have a gigantic crush on this book. I've read it 4 or 5 times now, and every time I comprehend more of the intricacy of its form. It's a novel, but it's also a poem and a history and many other things. The imagery is so rich that it doesn't need a plot, and yet the circular and self-referential ceremony of it all is so beautiful that I could start it over again right now. Just a book everyone should read. Probably twice.
After the disappointment of reading House Made of Dawn, I wanted to read an excellent Native American novel and Ceremony turned out to live up to its reputation. The story was powerful, the characters vivid, the description of the landscape beautiful and overall it was just a exceptional journey the reader shares with Tayo.
Melancholiškas pasakojimas apie indėnu gyvenima rezervate po II pasaulinio karo. Alkoholizmas, nedarbas, pikti ir godūs baltieji. Niūrus, bet vertas skaitymo romanas.
