https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824508.Smack
They go through the various phases of invincibility delusion, adjustment to ever sinking standards, criminal behaviour, prostitution, desperate pain and physical downward spiralling while telling their life stories through their teenage perspective.It strongly reminded me of the true story of Christiane F., whose witness account on teenage drug addiction in Berlin in the 1970s was made into a book and later into a film, Wir Kinder vom Bahnhof Zoo. It haunted me for years after I read it in my early adolescence, and it leaves me pondering on what to do with Junk.
I read this years and years ago when i was about 11 so i remember it was very different reading it the 2nd time around when I am 26. Entertaining.I'd rather a YA about drugs any day of the week than some shitty high school romance. Fan girl etc etc etc etc
5 Words: Toxic, addiction, manipulation, love, realisation.This book is one of my favourites of all time.
It's difficult and challenging.At the start, I always love Tar and hate Gemma.
This book allows me to empathise with a type of person I would usually avoid at all costs.Gemma is probably my favourite character, even though I can't stand her (at all!) at the beginning.As shocking as this book is, as controversial as the subject matter is, that isn't what the book is about.
That the main characters are all junkies is just a fact, something that makes the whole process a little harder.I think Junk is a book that everyone should read at least once.
Talk to someone you trust and they will help you through whatever shit it is that you’re going through.But I was reading the book I was appalled, because here are a bunch of strong-voiced characters telling us how easy it is to get into drugs, how good it makes you feel, how easy it is to quit and pick you life back up.(view spoiler)[ No one dies from an OD.
It’s supposed to turn kids off wanting to do drugs.I only know that if I had read it when I was younger, maybe I wouldn’t have had the strength to say no when something was offered to me.And truth be told, it really is an amazing book.
Gemma is a devoted friend, likes a good time and is all for helping Tar. She has parents the opposite of Tar's, they care too much and show this bytbeing too stric for Gema's liking.
Any prejudices and preconceptions you have ever had about junkies will be confirmed but also dispelled in this book, it punches real hard and even though you can see the destruction and know it's not going to end well, you can still feel empathy for the characters, especially Tar. A brilliant read that will remain with you and should be a lesson to all!
Two naive 14-year-olds (poor, abused Tar, the son of two alcoholics, and his restless, reckless girlfriend, Gemma) run away from home and, over the course of the novel, they drift into drug addiction and slowly dig themselves deeper and deeper into a hole out of which they can’t climb.However miserable their comedown, Burgess doesn’t cheat and pretend there’s any black-and-white to be found in heroin addiction: the initial sense of freedom is intense, the good times are sweet and the friendships genuine.
It adds an important layer to what, at other times, feels like a straightforward teen novel.I hadn’t read Junk for a few years and I wondered if some of its gleam might have worn off for me.
New narrators only come in once they’ve already been introduced as characters, so you kind of get a feel for who they are before they start moving the story along.
You have the main characters - Gemma and Tar - who take up most of the narrative, but other characters chime in too, like a kind of smacked- up Greek chorus.There was plenty of character development in the story, considering the MCs use a whole bunch of heroin to effectively smoosh out any actually emotions they might be experiencing.
4.5This is a tale of a group of runaway teenagers who end up addicted to smack/junk, aka heroin.
Love happens, pregnancies happen (one in which the baby is basically born an addict as well), and death happens in one occurrence.
Every chapter is told from someone else's perspective, which was one of my favorite aspects of this book.
We hear about the addicts from their perspective as well as the perspectives of others.
Great book for those who don't know what it's like to experience the disease of addiction, as well as for those who have walked that path before (be it their own or someone close to them).
This isn't a terrible book, but I feel like I want to jump into it and smack every single one of these frustrating characters.
It will RUIN your life and you'll talk like you know everything and everyone will want to hit you as a result.12/2016So I read this book again and it still stresses me out.
She struts around half nekkid going on and on about doing heroin and I just want to say, you are a silly teenager, stop making such bad decisions!
i swear this book should be called Teenagers Making Bad Decisions such as Using Heroin when they should not.
Rating: 4.3 stars,but I'm giving it 5 stars on here because I think the book's overall rating on this site is too low.Genre: Edgy Young Adult.Subject: A realistic look at heroine addicts in England.Synopsis: Gemma runs away from home because her parents are too strict, Tar runs away because his father hits him.
Over the span of five years we are taken through their lives and meet the same people that they do, from addicts to the few that want to help them.My Thoughts: As with Nicholas Dane this story was very sad, but well-written and captivating.
And, I think certain moments in the book also overrode the more duller points, making me appreciate this story very much.
The cover is so fucking ugly but it's actually good
I can't even imagine what it's like to live with such an addiction but this was the closest I came to glimpsing what so many people have fallen victim to.
I had previously read Beautiful Boy: A Father's Journey Through His Son's Addiction and consider that to be the best perspective of what it's like to helplessly watch your loved one become someone you don't know while under the influence of heroin.
A very important drug called naloxene counters the deadly effect of an overdose and needs to be readily available in our society.
Been almost a decade since I last read this. Bloody marvellous. Gritty and real, harrowing and beautiful and poignant and heart breaking and funny and terrifying and interesting. Enjoyed it just as much on the second read as I did the first time.I see a lot of bad reviews from Americans about the writing. Stop expecting 'American English' and read the bloody thing as its written - listen to a Bristol accent on YouTube if it will help!
I had already seen reviews saying how it so gritty and one of the best UKYA they had read in a long time.When I saw the introduction was written by Malorie Blackman I was really excited to read it as I have always loved books written by Malorie Blackman although I actually didn’t enjoy the introduction as much as I thought I would.
I felt she was very dependent and her life that she thought was so bad was just her parents caring about her unlike Tar. At the end of the book however that had completely changed.
This review contains some spoilers as I mention things that happen in the story to make some pointsWell, let me sum up this book in one gif (and I feel this is really appropriate) Oh, first off I need to say that I'm REALLY CONFUSED about how this is a children's book. I mean, it won the Guardian Children's Fiction Prize, among others, and I had to read this for my Children's Literature module. I- well, I would not let my child read this under the age of like 15. It's full of drugs (obviously,
It follows two 14 year olds Gemma and Tar who run away from home to be together (although it's not very romantic because the girl is literally like 'I love you' then 'I don't like you' and it's proper frustrating) and they mix with the wrong crowd.
She was basically some spoiled brat who couldn't get her own way at home so she ran off, became homeless and treat Tar like her little bitch.
Especially Tar's, JFC.The POV's in this story are interesting because it's so many people throughout the story, and it's always cool to see what everyone's thinking in specific parts of the book with a topic like this.
** spoiler alert ** I first read this in my teens and have been through about five copies of it. Wonderful because of its harshness. The nature of addiction shown through the gradual destruction of the characters, the acceptance of doing horrible things in order to get a fix and not a particularly happy ending.No one is really redeemed, just destroyed. Grace
The relatable part of the book for me was not that the Tar and Gemma did drugs, but that they looked for adventure and a way to escape from the world.
I can relate to the moment after Jenny talks about the overdose.
To have her life snatched away just when she was making something of herself” (Burgess 8).
In a way, people in my life already do those types of things, but not using the exact words.
Many people talk about being “in love,” but we are only 16 years old, so it could be easily mocked just as Lilly is doing.
The story of two runaway lovers and they're tale of the people they met and the adventerous ride of being an addict of herion, and the struggle of getting out of addiction.
He doesn't say it straight out but in his last entry he talks about his new girlfriend and how great she is, but then he talks about him and how he's getting off of herion gradually, and he says that if he's completely off he may get Gemma back.
Whenever i think about that it makes me want to crush Gemma for kicking him out!
But this book was amazing, and i definatly recomend it.
Junk is the unapologetic and unflinching look into the effects of drug addiction, and the best book I have read all year.
Junk is written with the same incredibly high level of honesty about the lowest depths that an addict will sink to in order to obtain their next hit.
While movies boast a faster pace and visual appeal, there is something so immersive about written words that made me feel pulled into this dark world in a way that the movies never could.
Overall it's gritty, real and an incredibly raw read.
This is an incredible and excellently written book for any age.
I found the characters, particularly Gemma, to be shallow and annoying.
Basically I wanted to pull my hair out anytime I read a chapter from Gemma's point of view.
Looking back though, I'm not sure that I was supposed to like any of the characters.
So points for authenticity I suppose.Other than Gemma or Tar, I found the characters to be somewhat poorly developed.
I especially wanted to hear more from Rob. I felt like he was just kind of there.
I wanted to know how he felt, particularly as his relationship with Lily evolves.
Two kids, Tar and Gemma, run away from home. Tar runs escape being beaten, Gemma to have freedom she desires. While on the run, They meet other people "on the run". These people introduce them to drugs. From there they all spiral out of control. They try to get clean but they begin to realize that it is alot harder then they ever could have imagined. The question becomes, will they ever be able to get their lives back on track or will their addiction lead them to their death?
I read this a few years ago when I was trying to write a book about drug use and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I found the book to be very interesting and compelling - a page turner. I liked the way that it was written and it had good pace. The book was quite emotive and it was easy to make connections with the characters. Thoroughly enjoyable.
A book about a heroin addict. (Yes that's what smack means) so just beware...oh and it's not that crazy at least I don't remember it to be it seems to be made more for a young reader. I want to read it again and will update this review when I do to let y'all know.
i love this book...its about these two teens that run away. the boy named Tar ran away first because his dad beats him, and his girlfriend Gemma decides to run away because she cant stand her family....they get addicted to heroine and a lot of really crazy stuff happens.....
I usually like books like this, but this one didn't do it for me. I was totally bored and didn't care much for the characters.
παρότι με σκοτείνιασε και με τύλιξε με ένα ασφυκτικό πέπλο κλειστόφοβίας δεν μπορούσα να το αφήσω από τα χέρια μου. Υπέροχα γραμμένο, διεισδυτικό, μου έφερε λίγο στο μυαλο το "η Αλίκη στη χώρα του L.S.D" που είναι και από τα αγαπημένα μου. Ο τρόπος που μιλά ο Burgess, μέσα από τον κάθε χαρακτήρα ξεχωριστά, σε βάζει εντελώς μέσα στην ιστορία, γίνεται σχεδόν, βιωματική εμπειρία. Τρομακτική ΕΜΠΕΙΡΊΑ! Τώρα σίγουρα θέλω κάτι πιο ανάλαφρο! αξίζει να διαβαστεί και από νεότερους όσο και πιο μεγάλους.
This story in particular focuses on two teens named Tar and Gemma who live in England.
Gemma lived at home with both her mother and father.
Tar begins to feel comfortable and believes that Gemma will fit right in with the house.
They both end up persuading Tar and Gemma to stay with them at their home.
While Gemma and Tar are staying with Lily and Rob, they introduce them to heroin.
Gemma ends up finding out she is pregnant.
A lot of teens deal with abuse at home or struggle to gain freedom when living under strict parents.
I don’t know why, but the feeling was there.About the characters, we get to know the most about Gemma and Tar, but because of the multiple perspective we get to know things about Rob, Lily, Richard, Vonny, Gemma’s mom and Tar’s dad.
I would’ve liked the book more if it was just Gemma and Tar. Some of the chapters, for example, when Richard was talking, weren’t even necessary.
You still have the syringe which refers to their junkie life and you have the dandelion which refers to the love between Gemma and Tar. I think the cover with the dandelion suits the book better than the one with the white background and syringe.
3.5 stelline.
Considering that not only the kids were so young and fearless but that the whole book was written with british humor.
Besides the humor, the overall story line of in a way strange and also interesting.
It seems like I have read this book before though, just the overall picture that some kids ran away and discovered a life of drugs and crime, it seems like I read a lot of these books but I did enjoy that fact that each chapter in the book was told by a different character each time so you were able to view each scene from a different persons eyes.
