https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5417.Carrie_Salem_s_Lot_The_Shining
'SALEM'S LOT "They only come out at night." After waiting so long to read this work of horror, I was a little worried that SALEM'S LOT would not live up to my expectations, but was I ever wrong! Once again, as is the norm with Stephen King, there's more here than just creatures of night; there's also a creepy good storyline, some very colorful characters, and a small backwoods town with a dark and evil history.After you meet the tall man and the quick-witted boy with dark eyes.....and the rest o
After waiting so long to read this work of horror, I was a little worried that SALEM'S LOT would not live up to my expectations, but was I ever wrong!
Once again, as is the norm with Stephen King, there's more here than just creatures of night; there's also a creepy good storyline, some very colorful characters, and a small backwoods town with a dark and evil history.After you meet the tall man and the quick-witted boy with dark eyes.....and the rest of the vampire hunting gang, the spooky Marsten House enters the picture and the disappearances begin.
This is what I get for trying to read a huge book in the middle of the school year.
Takes me ages to actually get through it.Carrie: 4.5/5 - I love this book.
It's my favorite of King's novels all because it opens up a new side to things each time I read it.
I can see why my mom considers it one of her favorite by Stephen King.
Definitely one I would love to read again.The Shining: 4/5 - This one I watched the movie for first.
This book gets me stressed out each time I read it.
This voluminous hardcover includes Stephen King’s first three novels:-Carrie (1974)-’Salem’s Lot (1975)-The Shining (1977)Each one just really a masterpiece and treat to read for itself!
An intense and mind-boggling journey the reader is accompanying Carrie throughout the pages.Stephen King’s first novel (apart from his two-part self-published “The Star Invaders” ten years before Carrie) is surprisingly written from a young troubled girl’s point of view, yet perfectly believable and realistic – despite the supernatural element to it.
All together I find it to be a very honest and direct book and in its core and story-telling wonderfully chilling and interesting.With ’Salem’s Lot Stephen King surprised me with a vampire story.
A solid investment for someone wanting to sample some of King's earlier novels. Carrie: 4 stars'Salems Lot: 3 starsThe Shining: 4 starsThe Shining was definitely my favorite of the three, though all represent what I have come to think of as Classic King.
So my rating here is based on the parts of the book that I did finish, which were Carrie and Salems' Lot.Carrie gets two stars from me.
It gives away too much too soon and ruins any suspense or sense of build-up, since you go through the entire book already knowing what's going to happen.Salems' Lot, on the other hand, only gets one and a half stars.
Salems' Lot is not a novel; Salems' Lot is the set-up of a novel, which requires a lot more elements to make it complete.So, since Goodreads doesn't allow half-scores, I give this book an adjusted score of three stars for the two-thirds I did finish.
I have already finished Carrie, which I found to be an astounding novel!
Simple, but packs a punch.
You turn all sorts of corners, and venture into places you never thought you'd ever have the nerve to go to.
Incredible read.
If you're just dipping your toe into the world of Horror, this is definitly a perfect novel for you to read, to hook you into it.
Or, if you're already hooked, this a a novel that will chill you, and send shivers down your spine.I have yet to finish 'Salem's Lot, but expect a review when I do!
Carrie - 4 starsThe Shining - 5 stars. For me The Shining is the best King book ever written. The perfect ghost story meets the perfect psychopath.Salem's Lot - The traditional vampires-taking-over-the-town story done masterfully. At the story's end I felt that King left it open for a sequel. Unfortunately, that sequel hasn't happened yet and so the reader is left to imagine what happened next. Be that as it may I was captivated by the town King describes and found myself cruising through this story very rapidly.
I read Salems lot when i was 13 and it scared the hell out of me, I quit reading horror after this. It taught me my lesson. I am grateful I found PNR so i could have my vampires back without the nightmares!!!!!!!!
Second time reading this. It's been 15 years since the first time I declared this as my favorite book ever and now I remember why.
Like King, Torrance had a family to support, and had to take jobs he deemed beneath him to keep them fed and clothed.The book hinges on Jack's struggling with alcoholism, and with thoughts and impulses that grow darker as the Overlook Hotel's hold on him tightens.
It's also human, and that humanity, more than the nightmarish images King paints in chapters that explore the haunted rooms and shadowy corners of the Overlook Hotel, is what makes SHINING such a raw and candid read.I don't think I'm alone in sympathizing with Jack Torrance.
The Marsten House has recently been purchased by an unseen new owner, and when the townspeople begin disappearing--and then reappearing as blood thirsty revenants--Ben realizes that house is a locus of evil that has attracted a master member of the Undead.
When recovering alcoholic Jack Torrance arrives there one snowbound winter to serve as the hotel's new caretaker, little does he know that the evil place will exert its insidious influence to liberate his personal demons and add to its legacy of terror.
Stephen King: Three Novels is a distinguished new addition to Barnes & Noble's line of leatherbound classics.
All three stories are good stories. The Shining is probably the best. The characters are well developed and the evil drips off the page. This is classic Stephen King. Salem's Lot is a great vampire story. The male lead is especially well developed. I sympathize with Father Callahan and I felt an admiration for the young boy. I could not put the book down. I liked the Carrie story but I do not like the style of this particular work. In my opinion this was the weakest of the three stories contained in this book.
I think this collection of Stephen King stories have stood up against the test of time. Carrie, Salem’s Lot, and The Shining are 3 of his best works. Reading this collection of stories takes you on a relatable ride through horror from familiar heights that are quite frightening. Stephen King found a healthy blend between horror and reality and he does not disappoint. Definitely a MUST read!
It was my first King novels and I fell in love with his work. Carrie was so intriguing and fascinating to me, it was a great start. Salem's Lot and The Shining are such good novels, I couldn't put it down.Plus, the book cover is so beautiful.
This was my first horror book I ever read and it was awesome! It was a bit wordy at times but nevertheless, I was hooked with every word. This book is so much better than the movie 👌
Carrie : I knew the basics about Carrie from what I've heard of the movie. I have not watched the film yet; I wanted to read the novel first. When I began reading Carrie, it had sentences in brackets to explain what was going through Carrie's (and other characters') minds. These "thought" sentences were the only parts of the book that took me a while to get used to. To say that Carrie frightened me was an understatement. In the most straightforward sense, Carrie is quite relatable. The novel de
These "thought" sentences were the only parts of the book that took me a while to get used to.
Stephen King definitely creeped me out with Carrie, so much so that I took a break before continuing to read Salem's Lot. My rating for Carrie is a 4/5.
: Salem's Lot took a while to get good.
If the first part of Salem's Lot had been a tad shorter, or less peppered with rather irrelevant characters, than the rating would have been a 4/5.
However, my rating for Salem's Lot is 3/5.
The Shining has become my favourite King novel, even if it scared the bejeezus out of me.
This book was a roller coaster I couldn't get off of, no matter how much I screamed through story after story.The Shining was intense and I do not think I will re-read it.
I couldn't read it at night, and refused to bring this book with me into bed.
An incredibly fitting poem for this book.I will re-read Salems Lot, most likely.
Also it showed me I know King's formula pretty well, because as soon as he was describing a lovely day and a cheerful scene...I was white knuckling it waiting for the guillotine.
This collection of Stephen Kings work is delicious.The Shining.Some of the images this book created for me still haunt my mind.
Despite having only read it twice in the past 30 years the imagery still hold.The story is based around a small family who become winter caretakers in the off-season of an old Hotel.
In fact I think Carrie should be compulsory reading at secondary schools and should be discussed in depth.Salems LotOf all of Kings books this one has always stood out to me as the most beautifully written - or perhaps it was the one that really awakened me to the beauty that is in Kings writing.He creates everything within this story beautifully.
You have to delete the first time info that you'd read it and then it counts.This is very annoying.I have a few books where I have more than 1 copy.
Notably, before this King often said he did not care about the film adaptations of his novels.He also did not like that Jack was played by Jack Nicholson.
I always try to read a book before watching the movie cause I love to make up my own characters and bow they look like.Now I am re reading because I have Doctor Sleep on my kindle and can't wait to read.Finished last night.
However, I'm glad I didn't read them back in the 70s (not that I could have), or as my first Stephen King books because I don't think I'd have read more books from him.
I still enjoyed them, but something was missing and they definately haven't aged as well as some of the others.If you are a Stephen King fan, it's definately worth reading them, but don't get your hopes up too much and don't expect them to be his best as they definately aren't.
It's also definately worth having in your collection, but that's pretty much it.
These are three of my most favorite books from King.
And I think every girl ought to read this book, just so that they know that whatever they went through during puberty can not ever be as bad as what Carrie went through.
I love the mental powers side-effect of this book too, though!Salem's Lot was freaky.
Really really freaky.
And last of all, the Shinning: this book has always reminded me of that Eagles song, Hotel California.
I can't help but think of the Jack Nicholson rendition whenever I remember this book as well!
There was also another factor in my decision to rate these works at a lower level then I would have rated them at the time of their release....the movie adaptation.
Over the years I have forgotten the actual story as it had been written and closer associated each with the movie adaptation.
(I have seen each of the movie adaptations on several occasions.)Reading King's older works makes me feel that I have grown and matured with the writer, maybe I have.....
CARRIEWith a first half that does nothing more than build up to a 100 plus page climax, this is a fantastic first effort that only hints at King's ability to stretch out a tale to its limit and beyond.'SALEM'S LOTThe updated vampire mythology found in this book is so much better than anything that has come since.
Sticking as faithfully as possible to the Dracula mythos, King manages to create a similar world with far more interesting characters and a much darker tone.THE SHININGSo much better than the movie, and with a much better ending.
This book marked King really getting to grips with atmosphere working to be scarier than actual supernatural creatures.
I like his style that is looking insight his characters' mind and describing his view of scenes as if represnting a painting.
Which novel I like most, in this edition, is Salem's Lot, an adventure story of one man and one boy who attempt to rescue from the shadow of dark master, an old vampire who appears as an businessman buying a big mansion on the hill and changing it into his own 'command center'.
Stephen King tells his story through the different views of different characters and ending with -- in my opinion, an unending end.
I am reviewing one book of the series: THE SHININGThe Overlook Hotel has been a famous resort for over seventy years- and has a history of both good and bad.
Jack Torrance and his family, wife Wendy and son Danny, go there to live in the isolation of the snow, closed off from the outside world by winter’s wrath.
The hotel comes alive with its evil past and tries to draw in the Torrance family, and Danny becomes a pawn because of his precognition or The Shining.This book was, of course, O My God Incredible!
I've read all the books in the omnibus, but this last one "the shining" is the one I'm reviewing.
I've been a fan of the film (both versions) for years, and being a huge King fan, it was sacrilegious that I hadn't read this book.
Its wonderful!
It's so different from Kubrick's film, that I totally understand why King didn't like it, and chose to re-make it himself in the 90s.
There were scenes in the book that literally gave me shivers, and scenes from the movie (that aren't in the book) that have haunted me for years.
The Shining - 5/5 A classic.
Salem's Lot - 5/5 Maybe the best vampire novel ever written.
Night Shift - 4/5 Enjoyable.
'I Know What You Need,' 'Gray Matter,' 'One More For the Road' and 'Sometimes They Come Back' were the standouts for me.Carrie - 5/5 If this novel doesn't break your heart you might not have a heart to begin with.
Overall it's interesting to compare these 4 early works with King's more recent output.
He's certainly become a steadier, more confident writer in the 40 years since these were first published.
But even here, at the beginning, his grasp of both character and detail were remarkable.
I don't know what rating to give this, since I only loved one of the books.
The Shining was by far the best one out of the three.
The other two were kind of forgettable, which I thought was odd.
A Stephen King novel forgettable?
What?Yeah, it's true.
Carrie was interesting enough to get me to finish it, but not enough for me to want to read it again.'Salem's Lot was...bland.
I started reading it with so much excitement, since at the time, I was obsessed with vampires.
But I found myself reading faster towards the end just so I could be done reading it.
Salem's Lot: ★★★★ (want to read again)The Shining: ★★★★ It started out a bit slow but picked up about halfway through. Some things were a little hard to get past, like just how intelligent Danny seemed to be for a 5-year old, and the hedge animals that felt like something out of Harry Potter more than Stephen King, but I really liked it. I keep thinking that I’ve read enough horror/thriller novels to be immune to them, but I was thoroughly scared towards the end. King is brilliant!
Carrie and The Shining are classics and are two of my favorite Stephan King books, I could not get into Salem`s lot unfortunately. I feel that Stephan King tried to hard to make it sound like Bram Stokers Dracula. There just wasn't enough to scare me in it besides an entire neighborhood being destroyed by vampires (spoilers). Still all 3 books are a great read and the shining is one of my all time favorites been needing to read it again!!
Carrie and The Shining are classics and are two of my favorite Stephan King books, I could not get into Salem`s lot unfortunately. I feel that Stephan King tried to hard to make it sound like Bram Stokers Dracula. There just wasn't enough to scare me in it besides an entire neighborhood being destroyed by vampires (spoilers). Still all 3 books are a great read and the shining is one of my all time favorites been needing to read it again!!
