https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/941226.Jirel_of_Joiry
Note, Feb. 26, 2015: While skimming over the stories again, as part of adapting and expanding this review for another site, and with the benefit of a number of years of further reflection, I decided that this collection fully merits an additional star, raising it to five!Originally published in the pulp magazine Weird Tales in the late 1930s, Moore's five stories ("Black God's Kiss," "Black God's Shadow," "Jirel Meets Magic," "The Dark Land," and "Hellsgarde") featuring beautiful swordswoman Jirel, lady ruler of a feudal fiefdom in Dark Ages France, were as germinal in the development of sword-and-sorcery fantasy as the work of her contemporary, Robert E.
The first story (a novella), "Black God's Kiss," is a classic that I highly recommend.
The second story, "Black God's Shadow," is basically the first story rewritten, but not nearly as good.
Moore is first rate when it comes to descriptions of strange landscapes, but characters -- at least the main one, Jirel, are flat.
Moore gets so wrapped up in descriptions that the character of Jirel becomes static, a placeholder, until Moore realizes that story movement needs to proceed.
Moorcock claims that Moore was better at this knd of story than Howard.
Just recently, I had some words to say regarding the stories that Golden Age sci-fi/fantasy author C.L. Moore placed in "Weird Tales" magazine, during the 1930s, that dealt with the futuristic smuggler/spaceman Northwest Smith.
And before Jirel is able to make her return to the land she knows, she comes to realize the secret motivations of the corpse-visaged witch, and ultimately discovers the exact nature of Pav himself...or should I say, "itself"?Closing out this collection is Moore's final tale of Jirel of Joiry, "Hellsgarde" (April '39).
Not a fan. I read this as fantasy horror, and it seems very over-descriptive, yet flat and repetitive. Jirel is interesting purely for existing (a warrior lady written in the 1930s!), but there is zero depth to her as a person. Very little seems to happen in each story as well.
They definitely are strange places, however.The first two stories in this collection, "Black God's Kiss" and "Black God's Shadow"are very short on human (or even non-human) interaction, dealing mostly with Jirel's wanderings through strange, alien lands on her quests.
This is about as classic sword-and-sorcery as you can get, with Jirel out on a quest to kill a wizard, something which is never easy, especially in these stories.
It's basically a haunted house story, with a bunch of weird characters for Jirel to interact with, a ghost, and a lot of creepy weirdness.
Jirel of Joiry is every much a sword-and-sorcery protagonist equal to Conan, and ought to be remembered better.
Famous as a woman's answer to the overwhelming and unquestioned masculinity fantasy of Howard's Conan, I was surprised to see that Jirel of Joiry was published within two years of the first Conan story.
Jirel gets a kiss from a black statue god (with an extremely racist illustration on the original cover, especially given the weird coercion element in the story as well) that makes her the bearer of a special alien curse I guess.
Then she comes back up the tunnel and Guillame is like "hey where'd you go we were worried about you" and she gives him the kiss and he DIES in weird horror anguish.
Jirel is one of the very first, if not the first, swordswomen adventurer. This is heroic fantasy with Moore's deft touch on the imagery.
Good old heroic fantasy with a dark edge!
Essential reading for those that like or are interested in this genre, standing right next to the works of Robert Howard etc.
It's fun to read, with a cool *female* warrior back then, quite ahead of its time.
Perhaps because it's old and it's basically some short stories with her adventures but we don't get to see much character development, cool dialogue, world building and the writing though pleasant isn't amazing.
Jirel is a beautiful strong lady warrior, she faces some dark evil but with her strength, passion and anger(?) she overcomes everything in this world or some other worlds.
Block God's Kiss and Hellsgarde are pretty interesting stories. The other three are just really bad. There's not much worth calling plot in any of the stories, if there's anything at all; and Jirel doesn't do anything at all except to switch her emotional state between defiant and angry. Whatever made Moore famous, these stories certain weren't it.
3.5I found Jirel fascinating as a heroine of 1930s pulp fantasy.
Throughout her adventures, Jirel's opponents constantly seek to victimize her, use her as bait, lure her in, or overpower her.
Often she can't escape witnessing or even being part of horrific things, but she takes these impossible situations and confronts them on her own terms.
Jirel is physically and emotionally capable without being a know-it-all or preternaturally lucky.Moore paints incredibly vivid pictures of fantastical realms and creatures.
This seems like it might be a byproduct of being published originally as pulp scifi/fantasy, and if they were published today an editor would have smoothed out some of the problems in the prose.
If Swords and Sorcery is the brand of fantasy you’re looking for, then C.L. Moore’s Jirel of Joiry is just the girl for you. Red-haired, armor-clad, and dealing out destruction with her massive two-handed sword, Jirel set the standard for tough warrior women decades before Xena, Warrior Princess or even Tolkien’s Arwen and Éowyn. Girl power, indeed.
The others are not quite as evocative but still very good; and Moore rightly chooses to start each in the midst of the weirdness, with only the barest explanation of how Jirel arrived at that point.
For example, the first story begins with her army defeated, not with the battle; the final story begins with her arriving at a haunted castle to save her men from imprisonment, not with their capture.The latter story especially is a weird one, taking a simple haunting and turning it into a very new, I suspect, idea that would later be revisited by Tim Powers.This is very good weird horror.
Before there was Wonder Woman and before there was Supergirl...there was Jirel of Joiry.
She was a warrior woman in a mythical medieval France and her enemies included gods, demons, and sorcerers.
To me, what is most interesting about these stories is that they were written by C.L. Moore (1911-1987).
stood for Catherine Lucille, and, although the readers of the 30s didn't know it, she was a woman, one of the first woman writers in science fiction and fantasy.
Her early work was fantasy, similar to that of A.
Later, she married Henry Kuttner and they collaborated on some of the best SF being written at the time.
A couple of times we start the story after an apparently substantial battle has ended.So if we get the 'sword' in the past tense, we get the 'sorcery' in the present and as the focus of the action.
Despite some masterfully visceral, muscular and exciting pulp prose, most of this action really boils down to Jirel's internal psychological struggles to find the strength to overcome the parade of evils.Indeed, just as Kuttner wrote outright Cthulhu mythos fiction and some of it seeped into his own Elak of Atlantis sword and sorcery series, and as Robert E.
Jirel of Joiry is the original kickass female protagonist, a warrior woman from the nobility who fights alongside her men and is feared by her foes.
And yet she isn't just a man with breasts; she's very much a woman as well as a warrior.
Her spiritual descendants include Buffy the Vampire Slayer and just about every urban fantasy heroine, as well as Xena, Princess Leia, Ripley and dozens of other fighting female protagonists.
One of the unwritten rules of early sword-and-sorcery is that the magic is always wielded by the villain and the warrior always defeats it, and this is indeed the pattern here.
I'm sorry to say she still sometimes came off as a caricature, but there is plenty of remarkably original material as well; her descent into what the medieval French-ish heroine assumes is "hell" but is clearly some very alien, very other, dimension; or her encounter with a more than a little unsettling ghost "hunters." (And no, I will not clarify that.)All in all, I came away liking Howard's "Dark Agnes" character better (from the "Sword Woman" collection), but liking Catherine Moore's writing more.
She does weird way better -- way more three-dimensionally -- than Howard.
Jirel of Joiry was the first I read of C.
L. Moore but it won’t be the last.
The first of the five stories collected in this book appeared in Weird Tales in 1934 so they belong to a favorite era and story style of mine.
The stories of Jirel of Joiry are amazingly creative.
Not simple sword and sorcery stories, these stories have some of the most unique environments, plots and characters of any I’ve read.
Incredibly smooth, flowing and perfectly crafted prose simply flies by as it reveals Jirel’s adventures.
I highly recommend this book to fantasy, Weird Tales or the era’s fans.
I LOVED Jirel of Joiry. This book contains five stories:1. The Black God's Kiss (spectacular)2. The Black God's Shadow (great)3. Jirel Meets Magic (awesome)4. The Dark Land (ok)5. Hellesgarde (great)Jirel is a strong protagonist with shades of Conan but more "sword and sorcery" than "sword and sandal". Such an excellent book.
I read this *mumble-mumble* years ago & found it extremely uninteresting. It was endless talk & description & practically no action. It amazes me that Moore & Kuttner together produced interesting fiction but individually weren't all that hot.
Moore is not Howard. This is just a set of "weird tales". Nothing like the sword and sorcery genre I was expecting. Too high expectations.
Typical Moore: endless description with little action.
Maybe it was cool back then, but this style of writing grates on me as a reader of 2010. Did not finish chapter 1.
Proto-feminist sword and sorcery, very imagistic, sensual, emotional, epic archetypes, violent, not very intellectual. Difference from male authors? Woman is not prize or prey. Woman is Heroine.
Jirel is striking in appearance, but she's not primarily defined by it, rather by her unstoppable nature and unbreakable willpower.Each story showcases Jirel in a situation where she is forced or determined to achieve a goal, and how nothing can stand in her way, although much attempts to and it requires every ounce of her abilities to survive.These aren't exactly my favorite kind of stories, but they were well-written and interesting, and each takes readers to a different place than the usual fantasy, particularly today.
I've read a lot of pulp stories, but I recently realised that I'm mostly familiar with male authors.
Therefore, I took it upon myself to read C.L. Mooren Jirel of Joiry collection which reprints stories that were originally released in the Weird Tales magazine.Unfortunately, the stories did not reach the literary heights of the best pulp stories of the era, although the author does have imagination to share.
One story like this would have been "weird" and fun, but three or four in sequence merely felt repetitive.
The last short story is the only one to really break this pattern and is quote a fun read.
A female heroine written nearly 100 years ago by a female author is an accomplishment alone. This series of novellas was pretty strange really, as the character quickly gets herself in and out of supernatural troubles without a whole lot of detail or background. There's little depth or character development to the main character, Jirel, but C.L. Moore has a really nice writing style and is superb with her illustration. It is worth the read for her ability to formulate the metaphysical and strange but you really don't develop much care for Jirel.
4.5 StarsFive stories, (3 very solid), of Jirel, one bad ass, sword welding, dagger sticking, medieval Lady. She is so tough on this world she needs to travel to other plains of existence to find a good challenge. Time after time, for one reason or another, (but all connected to her honor), she finds herself ‘passing over’ to other realms, encountering advanced beings, and overcoming tremendous psychological terrors to complete her mission! Wow!
Una serie di racconti che, a mio avviso, tradiscono le aspettative del lettore.Jirel una eroina tutta coraggio che sfida l'ignoto in universi paralleli, dove il vero nemico è l'oscurità dipinta in diverse sfaccettature. La spada è solo un elemento decorativo, spada e magia, ma in realtà è solo una magia.
Ugh The turgid pace, meant to instill dread and fear, instead brings nothing but annoyance and boredom. I never cared about the character or her actions. Didn't help that the author seemingly copy/pasted entire passages from one story to another, only highlighting the malaise I felt plowing through these stories. Pretty much unfinishable.
Somewhere between Howard, Leiber and Moorcock in style, with a feisty heroine who is nobody's damsel in distress. The stories are more sorcery than sword, with a fair dose of horror. I preferred the later stories to the more famous first two, but each one showcases a remarkable character who shattered the glass ceiling in fantasy long before anyone seems to remember.
