https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/392297.Sin_City_Vol_1
RESOLVED: The Sin City movie was superior to the graphic novel*. *Note: This debate covers only the first 45 Minutes of the Sin City movie which encompassed the adaptation of this graphic novel. BASIC ASSUMPTIONS NOT IN DISPUTE:Assumption 1: Sin City: the Hard Goodbye was a ground-breaking graphic novel and worthy of its critical and commercial success.Assumption 2: Sin City: the Hard Goodbye should be read by fans of the graphic novel format and those interested in a grittier, edgier read. Ass
FACT 3: Sin City the graphic novel was done in subdued black and white with ‘impressionist” art in order to give it that “noir chic” feel that left some of the more violent parts of the book a little “underwhelming.” On the contrary, the movie was filmed in gritty black and white with moments of “extreme” color that made some of the more violent parts of the book “OH SO MUCH MORE BRUTAL.” By way of illustration, I refer the judges to the following: (a) MARV driving while cleaning the street with nameless bad guys face; (b) MARV preparing our demented little “hobbit” Frodo as a snack for Fido; and (c) MARV’s final little “chat” with Cardinal Roark.
I am so glad that I am finally reading this.
I saw the movie years ago and loved it!
This first volume was fantastic and almost every frame of it is included in the movie as is!
I love it when they don't mess with the story.The black and white art is great.
It had to be more difficult to do a simple face using only the negative space through the rain or in the shadows than a complex picture with all of the colors you want.
If I could give it more than 5 stars I would!
Ok I am tired of people liking this dumb review so I'm erasing it. Jesus. And while we're here, fuck Trump.
DNF.Again.This is my second attempt to get into Sin city but I simply can't.Problem isn't the writing, I think that Miller is great writer(two of my favorite Batman comics are his work) and there is good story in here too.Problem are illustrations, I loathed them from the start and I couldn't enjoy the story properly.I couldn't enjoy it but I don't think this is bad graphic novel, as I said above there is good story in there and if illustrations don't bother you than I would actually recommend you give it a try.
Frank doesn’t pussy around with what he wants to say and words like “faggot” and “retarded” manage to find their way into the finished product.
For me, words don’t offend, so I liked it when Frank cuts loose.
Miller’s protagonist, Marv, is so fuckin’ great.
Miller’s own description of Marv as Conan in a trench coat pretty much hits the bullseye.The artwork is magnificent.
It’s almost unbelievable what Frank was able to produce with just a pen and some black ink.
Frank peaked early with this book because most of what follows in the Sin City series falls a little short of the bench mark set by this one.
I don't normally enjoy murder sprees that don't have a deeper reason but this was an exception.
Honestly I love Marv.
He is a badass but he's not a generic badass.
He is vulnerable mentally but he's hard as hell to kill.
The other characters were just kind of there.
The villains were overly strange and had no depth.
The art was really good but I have to admit there was a panel or two that looked like Rorschach tests to me.
The story was good as well but it wasn't quite fleshed out enough.
More back story on the villains would've helped.
A bloody chase starts seconds after Marv wakes up, and continues relentlessly for the rest of this first Sin City episode.I have grown weary of excessive violence in novels, comics and movies, especially the Quentin Tarantino brand of smug infatuation with killers, yet there is a gut wrenching rawness of despair and rage in the story offered by Frank Miller that puts it in a class of its own.
She is strong physically and mentally but is not a "bull-dyke" stereotype.There were no sex scenes between Lucille and her girlfriend.The women aren't super-skinny and I like the way Miller draws their hair.How Miller gave us little glimpses into Marv's (slightly more vulnerable) past.
I know I should probably feel that this is bad or exploitative or something, but honestly it didn't bother me at all.Marv's constant comments about what a waste it is that Lucille is lesbian.
I feel like she's got it covered.(view spoiler)[ Wendy visits Marv in prison and gives him a pity fuck before he is executed.
Sin City (The Hard Goodbye): A hard-boiled noir tale of revengeOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureFrank Miller’s SIN CITY hit the comic scene back in the early 1990s like multiple shots to the head and body.
I can enjoy a wide range of genre fiction, so I don’t really care as long as the story, characters, and world-building grab me.There are seven collected volumes of the SIN CITY comic, and the original 2005 film focuses on the first, third and fourth volumes, with the 2014 sequel A Dame to Kill For based on volume two.
Marv is a old asshole ready to fuck some shit up after he wakes up to a dead girl on his best.
The story takes us to the worst parts of Sin City trying to track down who did what.
The ending also was well done and had that "the only way it could end" yet still surprise you somehow.
I especially didn't like the way Marv talked about them, almost like children or dumb.
I know it's a style but sometimes I had to re-look a page 2-4 times to get what the fuck was happening.
Forgot all about this series. The art is so simple yet different. The movie really nailed the look of this graphic series!
I had to stop and just stare at the amazing drawings Miller did at times, and that's rare for me in a comic book--I tend to go "nice art" but rarely if ever do I linger at the drawing style the way I did frequently in this book.Marv, the main character, looks a bit like Miller's Batman in places but I can forgive it.
This is technically a 3.5. The story merits a 4. The art only 3.I know Miller's style is supposed to convey a frenetic edginess, and yeah, the boobs are all nice and round and gravity-defying...But, I grew up on Vampirella, Eerie and Creepy. To me, the artwork just looks sloppy.
Occam's Razor or artistic commentary?Looking at the twisted wreck of a man that Miller became in later life (the later books like All-Star Batman and Robin, the Boy Wonder, Vol. 1 & Holy Terror, his attitudes towards Occupy Wall Street), and comparing it to the dark/fascist hints in his earlier works, it's hard for me not believe that the later man was always in Miller and just was amplified after 9/11 - set free to fully embrace his angry/fearful/under-empathetic personality.
The Sin City franchise is typified by stark black and white ink, far more verbiage than in many other graphic novels, and it feasts on the back alleys, strip clubs, and forsaken wastelands of a dark city where daylight never shines. It contains numerous noir themes such as waking up to a corpse in bed with you, being framed for a murder you didn't commit, and stalking serial killers. If noir-infused graphic novels are all about feel, look, attitude, it's here.
The book is so much better than the movie for Marv's narration alone.
Who's Marv?
Marv is a killer, hardcore ex-felon, pill-popping alcoholic, sadistic, homophobic, womanizing hateful fuck.
Marv is the anti-hero.
Does anyone else think Marv looks and acts like a more extreme version of The Dark Knight?
The women in this book, though, my god Frank Miller.
I'm not projecting my opinion of Marv onto the writer, they are two very different beasts (I hope).
I was hesitant about black and white.
I never watched black and white television.
Bold and sparse and totally in character with Marv.
Five stars for the artwork, narrative, the movie and the timeline of 2005 2006 when I was heavily into this.And absolutely zero stars for Frank Miller's rabid personality , xenophobia, and general pigheadedness.
I am absolutely crazy for this art!It is BRILLIANT!I've never seen the movie, and I believe it or not, this is my first ever Frank Miller read.It's dark and sinister. It is treacherous and hankering.I don't think this comic would have succeed if it was in color, the black and white gives you the dark mysterious feel that makes the whole thing work.I'm definitely getting myself the rest of the Sin City series.
When I first read it, I think I knew some people hated Miller, though knew his Sin City/Batman/ Daredevil work made him one of the very top most influential writers in comic history.
or his hallucinations?) isn't real, he's a caricature as all the other men and women you meet in this fictional Vegas, but he's so interesting and as you turn the pages, you care about these people even IF they are manifestations of hyper-masculinist, over-sexuaized ideas, with huge doses of rage.
That's what is kind of remarkable here, that you care about Marv and most of the people you meet!What I don't particularly like is some aspects of the torture porn dimension of the revenge.
3,5/5  El duro adiós  (The Hard Goodbye, 1991-1992) es el primer volumen de esta saga de historias ubicadas en Basin City. A través de los pensamientos de Marv desentrañamos una historia de corrupción y muerte que no deja indiferente. Todo comienza con la muerte de Goldie, una prostituta que se ofrece a un hombre solitario, borracho y desesperado, Marvis. Tras el silencioso asesinato de Goldie, el protagonista se toma la justicia por su mano e investigará que oscuros intereses se ocultan tras l
A través de los pensamientos de Marv desentrañamos una historia de corrupción y muerte que no deja indiferente.
Todo comienza con la muerte de Goldie, una prostituta que se ofrece a un hombre solitario, borracho y desesperado, Marvis.
Tras el silencioso asesinato de Goldie, el protagonista se toma la justicia por su mano e investigará que oscuros intereses se ocultan tras la muerte de una prostituta de las tantas que hay en las callejuelas de Sin City.
En caso de vieras la película, no te vas a encontrar con ninguna sorpresa; el arco es el mismo, los sucesos son idénticos y la forma en que es contada esta prácticamente calcada, pero es entretenido ver como este cómic prácticamente nació para ser adaptado a otros medios, y ser igualmente entretenido.
Pop Sugar Reading Challenge 2018Un libro hecho en una película que ya hayas visto.Tan oscuro, tan violento, tan depravado, tan ... HERMOSOReseña en proceso…
Crime, Mistério, Violência e Paixão: Sin City!Sendo este volume uma leitura poderosa, relembra-nos constantemente que “O seu nome era Goldie”, o nome da mulher de ouro que serve de alavanca a um trabalho de ouro de Frank Miller.
Para quem não conhece, “Sin City é uma mulher enorme e sacana, implorando por ser possuída” (in Sin City, pp.
É uma cidade perturbante, absorvente e ambiciosa que deve ser literariamente visitada.Neste volume, a visita percorre temáticas diversificadamente interligadas no mundo do crime.
Olhando para a narrativa deste volume, o assassínio funciona como uma prova de amor e de gratidão que marca as páginas da história desta “cidade do pecado”.
Διάβασε όλο το review εδώΗ υπόθεση αφορά την Goldie και τις προσπάθειες του Marv να ξετυλίξει το μυστήριο γύρω από τον φόνο της, αφού ήταν η μόνη γυναίκα που δεν νοιάστηκε για την εξωτερική του εμφάνιση, περνώντας ένα βράδυ μαζί του πριν δολοφονηθεί ακριβώς δίπλα του χωρίς να το πάρει ο ίδιος χαμπάρι.
Ο Miller σετάρει άψογα τα κίνητρα του Marv για την μανία του να βρει τον δολοφόνο και χρησιμοποιεί τις detective περιπέτειες του για να σε γνωρίσει στον υπόκοσμο και διάφορα στέκια της Sin City, αφού ο Marv οργώνει όλη την πόλη για να πάρει τις απαντήσεις που χρειάζεται.Το μόνο που χρειάζεται εκ μέρους σου είναι λίγη -ελάχιστη- υπομονή.
Eh. I really wanted to like this one, since it's Frank Miller and Sin City and all, but I didn't, really.
I suppose that many people would say that the reason that I probably didn't like Sin City much was because I'm not a dude, and I might actually agree with them this time.
I think that I definitely appreciated Frank Miller's Sin City, and I can definitely see why other people love it, but I just didn't.
The author managed to make me feel so bad for Marv, it might be because of the simplistic way he refers to his mental disorder ex.
"i get confused" or the fact that he really isn't a bad guy just a little off.
Who knows, maybe it's because i'm a romantic and the idea of a guy tracking down his girls murderer and killing anyone involved is...kinda romantic to me.
Don't let that scare you away though, the book is a bunch of violence violence violence with sex strewn about haphazardly, but unlike other things of this nature it's intelligent and human.
أدهشني أسلوب تصوير وإضاءة وتلوين الفيلم، لكن قراءة "سين سيتي" أدهشتني أكثر. فلقطات الفيلم تكاد تكون صورة طبق الأصل من لوحات الرواية المصورة. رائحة الفساد التي تفوح من المدينة هي نفس رائحة مدينة جوثام. تطرف "مارف" هو نفسه تطرف "بروس وين" كما كتبه ميلر. حتى حدود الجسد الخارجية في الظلال! يقفز "مارف" من فوق البناية في نشوة انتقامه فيبدو في لقطة - ربما تعمدها ميلر - تماما كفارس الظلام، باتمان.أستمتع للغاية بكتابة فرانك ميلر، لكنني هنا استمتعت كذلك برسومه كما استمتعت بكتابته.هذا هو العمل الذي يعبر بدقة عن عالم فرانك ميلر.عالم الأبيض والأسود.أحمد الديبأبريل 2015
Dead prostitute, ugly thug, silent killer, corrupt police, fallen clergy, and cold, messy revenge. Just another night in Frank Miller's Sin City.
After long years spent locked down, sick and ailing -- an invalid by law, unable to go anywhere or say anything, he was finally free and healthy.Frank Miller had suddenly kicked down the door, pulled Comics Noir roughly out of bed, tossed him a new suit, and slapped him hard when he started to whine.
When Miller and Noir were back on the street, as the sickly man breathed in the cold night air, and examined the long shadows being cast by the streetlights, he began to look and feel younger, healthier.
Οι μέρες που τα πάντα ήταν όλα ή τίποτα.
Επέστρεψαν"Αυτός ο μπάσταρδος, ο Marv, με παρέσυρε σε ένα ασπρόμαυρο ταξίδι στην αμαρτωλή πόλη του και από τότε συναντιόμαστε συχνά.Ξαναδιαβάζω το πρώτο τεύχος του "Sin City" αρκετά συχνά και πάντα μαγεύομαι από τα - ασπρόμαυρα εδώ - σχέδια του Frank Miller, την καλογραμμένη ιστορία και φυσικά το χαρακτήρα του Marv, του μεγαλύτερου αντιήρωα στην ιστορία των κόμικς.Σίγουρα η Sin City έχει και τα ελαττώματά της, όπως για παράδειγμα ότι εκτός από τον Marv όλοι οι υπόλοιποι χαρακτήρες δεν έχουν αρκετό βάθος, παρ' όλα αυτά νομίζω ότι αξίζει να την επισκεφθείτε.Υ.Γ.
Πιστεύω ότι είναι από τις ελάχιστες περιπτώσεις που η ταινία ακολουθεί πιστά το βιβλίο και είναι αντάξια του.
