https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735365.The_Mystery_of_the_Strange_Messages
چند روز پيش كه دخترخالم ميخوندش كنارش نشستم خوندم و چقدر براي يك بچه ي ١٠ ساله هيجان انگيزهمن كه مردم از سررفتگي شديد حوصلهولي براي بچه ها عاليه
Goon immediately suspects Fatty and goes to warn off the findouters but this turns out to be a blessing in disguise for our five who have no case to solve (as usual) in the holidays.
The opening was different from the usual (one or the other of the children having to be received from the station, holidays with nothing to do)―this one begins with Goon puzzling over the anonymous notes and takes off from there.
The mystery was one of the more interesting ones with as I said a little more complicated than it seems at first and it was fun to see how Fatty worked the whole thing out.
This is one of dad's old books and I don't think I've read it before. But I enjoyed it very much and I would love to read more of the books in the series, though I'm pretty sure this is the only one.Enid Blyton wrote brilliant mysterystories for kids.
I still enjoy Enid Blyton's books for kids. I still get totally involved in the mystery and still love stringing the clues together. Another wonderful adventure with memorable characters.
Ok. I'm wondering where is Mr Wilfred's son gone and why Ern won't help his uncle and Buster that's locked. Why he waits until tomorrow?
amazing as always, Fatty.
Enid has never quite got the right balance in a Fatty book since the first one (of course, I still have one to read); either the mystery is annoying, or the characterisation is off.
Secondly, in the climactic moments when those people are caught, Fatty is incapacitated and Ern does absolutely everything!
Clearly Enid enjoys writing about Ern very much, but I was really bored of him by the end of the previous book (he's in the last three running), and he certainly shouldn't be doing Fatty's job.
Sekali lagi karena kecanduan cerita detektif,mengenang masa kecil yang tidak banyak membaca buku, berburu buku-buku Enid Blyton. Dan akhirnya cuma bisa nyewa, 1000 seminggu. Lumayan. Seperti biasa dalam buku Pasukan Mau Tahu ini, masih ada Fatty, Bets, Pip,Larry,Daisy dan si anjing kecil Buster. Serta si Pak Goon yang menyebalkan, yang menerima surat kaleng aneh. Misteri dimulai dari surat2 kaleng ini. Aih aku sebel banget ama Pak Goon ini, sotoy banget dan nyebelin ama si Ern keponakannya sendiri.
this is my first time tho. sebelumnya belum pernah baca buku enid blyton. dan..... ternyata seru!! ngak se bagus as i thought it was... tp gak jelek juga. pokoknya bagus. walaupun kayaknya kalau dipikir2 tokoh Fatty kayak bukan manusia gitu lho. terlalu bagus untuk jadi nyata. however, he's a fictional character. saya sangat kagum bagaimana enid blyton membuat karakternya benar benar hidup. saya paling suka tokoh Ern. lucu, menurut saya. kelak nanti, saya akan memberi hadiah buku ini untuk anak anak saya. :)
Its got all the ingredients for becoming a fine mystery book and it is a book in which the find outers are totally puzzled and have lost hope of finishing this mytery and suddenly out of the blue turns up a clue that brings the Five Findouters back on the trail.Mr.Goon the policwman is getting strange letters.Fatty and the others reach to many ends but finally solve the mystery.
Ya Tuhan. Ini bacaan saya sewaktu saya masih kecil. Saya dulu suka banget sama serial Pasukan Mau Tahu, jauh lebih suka daripada Lima Sekawan. Ketahuan, sih, saya anaknya  hipster  sejak kecil :v Hum, lumayan seru juga, sih, menguak misteri berita aneh di sini karena Nyonya Blyton mengajak kita bertualang ke sana dan ke sini.
serial Pasukan Mau Tahu ini salah satu favorit sayadan masih saja dibaca jika ingin, soalnya cerita2 dari Enid Blyton seperti tak lekang oleh jamanmisteri berita aneh ini, seru seperti biasa, apalagi tokoh yang berperan utamanya kali ini Ern, keponakan pak Goon ! :D
Much better than the other one. Deeper, with more mysteries and more drama. Also has comical parts. I love the part with Fatty improvising the poem =DAlthough Fatty gets on my nerves. He's so conceited.
Samaa tasoa ja muutenkin samanlainen kirja kuin muutkin salaisuus-kirjat. Välilukemista.
Good read.
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
entertaining as always:D
It was honestly pretty good. And definitely different from the others I've read. Published in 1957, this story is as old as my parents. Haha!
Very nice one.
Erg leuk.
