https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1776993.One_Fine_Day
While Laura holds the center, and causes Panter-Downes to focus a lot on women's changing roles in and out of the domestic sphere, comments about class and aging, class and bias, class and hypocrisy—all combined with an attention to gender—, there are some very astute portraits in here, too, of a crisis in masculinity that the war prompted more so than WWI did, a sense of displacement, and, even still, a nationalistic pride and all but unfounded optimism that is never droll, trite, or sentimental.It's a damn shame this book is out of print; even more so, that Panter-Downes has written several other novels, about which I can find hardly any information at all, anywhere.
The prose is beautiful too - not flashy, just calmly crafted and sighing melodically in that particularly southern English way.
As I grew up in that landscape of hedgerows and fields and low hills, of old thatched cottages and "lost lanes of Queen Anne's lace", it successfully summoned up in me a nostalgia for all that particular Englishness.
The melancholy she explores, at its strongest in the post war decade, still lingered in those communities even by the time I came along, so my response to this work is conceivably at least partly shaped by that.
Clearly the strongest I've read from Virago thus far. Reminds me of Mrs Dalloway in that day-of-life manner. Please, I am wishing you one fine day.
In this beautiful and lyrically told novel Mollie Panter-Downes chronicles a day in the life of the Marshall family, a middle class family living in post World War II England.While Britain has come out of the war victorious, life has not returned to what it once was and for most, it never will.The change the Marshall family feels most keenly is domestic.
Mollie Panter Downes doesn’t limit her story to a plot driven domestic drama, although a small middle class family are the focus.
She is a superb observer of people and communities, and demonstrates an astute understanding for the challenges for people coming out of a long, uncertain conflict.Laura and Stephen Marshall and their ten-year-old daughter Victoria must learn how to live with each other again in this new world.
A world inhabited by widows, where food is as strictly rationed as ever, and domestic help is hard to come by.
Stephen is tired, coming home from work and then having to spend his evenings trying to get some kind of order back in the garden, his daughter barely remembers him and his wife has suddenly become middle-aged.
Both Stephen and Mrs Herriot are intensely nostalgic, they have expectations for Victoria's up-bringing, that she should have the 'Heriot trimmings', learn the piano, have accomplishments, but Laura is quietly becoming aware that the era of being decorative is over and that it is 'perfectly clear that [Victoria] would have to work seriously for her living'.Reading this as a twenty-first-century woman gave me real pause - Mollie Panter-Downes is capturing a moment of real social change.
Perfect read. RTF

In this beautifully written novel, we follow a day in the life of the Marshalls, an upper-middle-class family struggling to find a new way to live in an England irrevocably altered by the Second World War. While Britain has emerged victorious from the conflict, life in the country has not returned to ‘normal’, to the way things were before – and for many people, it never will.
For some inhabitants of Wealding, a picturesque village in the home counties, the war has opened up fresh opportunities and pastures new; but for others like Laura Marshall and her husband Stephen, it has led to a marked decline in living standards compared to the glory days of the late 1930s.To read my review, please visit:https://jacquiwine.wordpress.com/2017...
Beautifully written.Set in a hot day in July 1946.The war has ended and life will never be the same again for the middle classes.Mollie has an eye for character.This is such a wonderful book which I devoured in a day.It has a beautiful cover on the original Virago edition which I recently bought in a charity shop.
The preoccupations of each are delightfully sketched: ten-year-old Victoria wonders what it would be like to have her friend Mouse's family instead of her own, and how pleasant it is to eat cream and butter for tea; Stephen muses on how many years he has been catching the same train to the same job, and how many more he must do so; and yet each and every one address the novel's central theme in their own way - how to go on, how to move forwards, after such unbearable upheaval, when all one wants is for things back the way they were, and the only certainty in this new life is that things will never go back.
Spotted this on Overbylass' site, it sounded like my kind of book - and was.
Couldn't get a more fitting title - one day in the life of Laura Marshall.
Every so often I crave a book like this, quiet, where nothing much happens (except life as it really is) but where I am given moments and thoughts that rush up from the past or loom in from the future.
"All those windows, she thought in horror.
For the rest of her life, now, she would see things from the point of view of cleaning them.
This is a lovely book which gives you a sense of post WW II England as felt by those who had formerly been able to count on hired help for so much of their daily lives. It is far more than that, though, with the author's wry humor and humane observations about the human condition everywhere present.
One of the best short novels I have read in a long time. Exceptional writing.
I enjoyed this book, but it felt similar to others I have read and didn't stand out for me in any way.
Read October 2016 for @simondavidthomas's 1947 Book Club
It takes place over the course of one day, shortly after the end of WW2.
We mainly follow Laura, as she struggles to maintain a crumbling house, and a garden that resembles a jungle, in the absence of servants, who are almost impossible to find.
She has the help of an ancient gardener, and a lady who comes in to char in the morning, but feels that it's all too much.
The people who would have been servants are moving on to better places, opportunities are opening up for them, leaving those who would have expected to have help to fend for themselves.
Beautifully written! Makes you think about the small things in life and how to take your days from tedium to glory. I also loved the historical aspect of seeing how things changed for small towns and for women after WWII.
4.5
It's a day in the life of Laura Marshall as she and everyone around her try to get back to a normal life after the end of World War 2. Humorous at times - a very good read.
In the aftermath of the war, an upper-class couple in southeastern England adjusts to the reality of life without servants and wealth.The main character, Laura, is the slightly dippy wife whose day we follow as she goes about her chores.
Really, this is nothing more than a glorified essay on the post-war realities of British life, mostly from the upper-class perspective, but sometimes pointing out that the working class and ambitious middle class have done very nicely, thank you.
Social commentary, thinly disguised as fiction.The greatest pleasure of the book is in the author’s descriptive powers, capturing the essence of the English countryside of the era and the attitudes of the people living there.
The phrase seems overused, but this is the type of book to savor while reading.
The main focus is Laura, a wife and mother, who is at heart a dreamer, but has to cope with being a housewife, something she is ill suited to.
Before the war, servants did it for her; during the war, the stress and tumult of life distracted her, in the present of the book, she finds herself struggling to meet the expectations of others.
As I wrote, the main focus is on Laura, but everyone is adjusting to the new way of life in post WWII Britain, for better or worse.
Mollie Panter-Downes wrote short journalistic pieces and stories for The New Yorker during the Second World War. She also wrote this fine novel set over the course of one sunny day in the summer of 1946.The Marshall family live in a small downland village called Wealding.
They have quite a substantial house, which was run with the help of servants before the war.
Now Laura Marshall has to manage with just a visiting cleaner and elderly jobbing gardener, and the somewhat grudging help of her husband Stephen in the evenings.
Written in the most beautiful crystal-clear prose, One Fine Day is an elegy for a lost world, a reflection on the need for change, and an acceptance that the old order of class and privilege has outworn its usefulness.
Somewhere there must exist a working class equivalent to One Fine Day, a book that emphasises the vast improvements that the welfare state, the NHS and improvements in housing and working conditions will make for the life of the poor in the immediate post-war years, but for the moment, Laura's vision is enough to move any reader.
A beautiful book.
What an absolutely wonderful little book (that seems like something a character might say in One Fine Day)!
I thoroughly enjoyed reading it.
It's not the sort of book in which big things happen.
Panter-Downes creates a palpable sense of this hot summer day in Wealding.
Laura, who the reader follows through most of her day, tends to zone out and think about things while she's in the midst of an interaction with another character.
There are many passages I wanted to underline or mark, but did not do so since my husband will read it next.
Even when I'm not reading the book, I can feel the summer heat and the sense of Laura's shocked surprise at being alive.
This is the day she realises in mind and body that she is alive, when somehow the heat of the sun warms her senses into life.
War isn't something that most of us experience at present, but if you've lived through the illness of someone close to you, for example, you will recognise Laura's tentative process of coming back to life, looking around to see what has survived, what has been lost.
Full of herbaceous border and crisp observation, this one-day-in-a-life text is a real optimism enhancer.
Very much of its era in certain attitudes, it’s also strikingly modern in some of its angles.
The Dorothy Parker comparison is perhaps overdone, but Mollie Panter-Downes does have a just-so turn of phrase and enjoyable edge.
She also evokes beautifully – lots of scent and texture in the writing here – and creates a lovely mood; in its feeling of bright, sweet melancholy I was reminded of A Month in the Country.
A book that’s pleasurable to inhabit.
The joy is in the detail and the precious ordinary.
Someone said, "It's like Virginia Woolf!" and I ordered it. But no one's like Virginia Woolf. It's more like Barbara Pym, but without her wit, irony, clarity, or eye for the perfect single detail--leaving only Pym's choice of character type and setting. A very thin Pym.
Gentle and lovely, but hasn't really stuck with me. One day just after the second world war when everything changed for the English who had once been able to afford cooks and maids. I have no idea how this cover came to be chosen...
It was a beautifully written book...the language lyrical almost poetic...the action takes place in a single day, and most of it in the imagination of the main protagonist...highly recommended...
