https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2800905-the-summoning
It seems though, that all of my creative faculties have been sucked away since I spent eighty percent of this book imagining what the story COULD have been.The story is like the little engine that could.
She has this great escape from the Group Home that we've been forced to suffer through for pretty much the entire book, only to end up in yet another asylum?
For all of you writing a story or novel, do not, and I repeat, do not make the "big reveal" at the end of your story so painfully obvious from a quarter in, okay?The Group Home is evil?
I thought the blurb sounded good when it mentioned Chloe seeing ghosts!
She has a breakdown at school, or so they think, really she just saw a ghost that keeps melting his skin and looking all creepy!
Poor Chloe finally gets sent to the Lyle House for "special kids".
They had me talk to a bunch of doctors and they ran some tests, and I could tell they had a good idea what was wrong and just wouldn't say it.
That's what Aunt Lauren had wanted to talk to me about after school.
There are bad people out there that want to do them harm!
This book was nearly impossible to put down and I have no doubt that the menacing allure of the setting and plot hindered my ability to do so.
I had so many conflicting emotions while reading this book, though suspicion and fear ruled more often than not.
To this I say, “Well played Kelley Armstrong.” And speaking of being played, I feel as though I should be angry that I find myself lusting after a character with an obvious attitude problem who has been plagued with a “puberty smack down.” Nevertheless, Derek shines and I am looking forward to more of his keen observations and snide remarks.In summary, The Summoning is a freakishly entrancing read with a brilliant plot, menacing setting, and intriguing character.
Although the story is not a standalone, it really left me with a bone chilling feeling and I truly can't wait for the next book in the series.Chloe's a young girl struggling with her new found power, Lyle House and her housemates, the setting itself is filled with teenage hormones and jealousy.
It's filled with mysteries and no one seems to be what they appear,this is especially true for her housemates.
We join Chloe as she uncovers the secrets of Lyle House as well as a few secrets belonging to her housemates.
I’ve heard nothing but how good this novel is, and that I must read it ASAP.
When I received a copy of The Awakening, the next novel, I knew that I needed to read The Summoning, right away.
(I’m almost glad I waited to read it, so I could start The Awakening right away!
What an ending!)This book is everything I was hoping for and more!
The characters and the plot-line were introduced impressively, I didn’t ever feel like the story was inadequate through getting to know the characters.
Chloe and Derek were by far my favorite.
especially Derek!
(Glad I’ve got the next one right here....)
I need to get my hands on the sequel!! The ending has left me wanting more!
It turns out however, that the house and its inhabitants are not quite what they seem to be.While this book was definitely a page turner, I was a little disappointed in it.
I felt that the narration dragged quite a bit in the middle of this novel and the build-up to the climax of the story was too long with almost no payoff.
This book definitely read as a part of a trilogy: it had a lot of loose ends and didn't really attempt to give a closure, even a temporary one.
^^SURPRISINGLY GOOD!^^So I bought this book last year at a summer book fair, I was not expecting to like it cus me and Kelley weren’t friends after reading Bitten, which I felt was mediocre at best but this book came as a surprise.
Chloe will come to learn she is a necromancer( can raise the dead) and a powerful one, there is a company hell bent on harvesting supernatural’s and if they seem defective they are terminated.
Yeh I know its YA, but he is still sexy, the other characters create a good foundation for a very solid read.
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Why do I keep doing this to myself?*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱ BEWARE FOR SPOILERS FOR THE SERIES! This whole review can - probably - contain spoilers for the entire series. This review is mostly for me to remember the details.   Re-read: 03.05.2018 . Why I decided to re-read this one, I have no idea. I don't even remember it, nor do I remember liking it all that much... Hell, I don't even like YA anymore. Anywho, here we are and I'm yet again reading about Chloe Saunders (15) who can see ghost. She gets he
Chloe gets better with the story but she's one of the people who judge him.
Was a half-demon with the power of telekinesis and is now a ghost (hide spoiler)].↦ Peter Ricci (13), gets take home after a couple of days of Chloe being at the house.↦ Workers at the Lyle House: nurse Mrs. Talbot (the older woman, nice), Miss Van Dop (the younger nurse, not so nice), Mrs. Abdo (another nurse), Dr. Gill, the psychologist, the tutor, Ms. Wang, and Dr. Marcel Davidoff, the head of the board that ran Lyle House.
Nope. No. Absolutely terrible.Awful nail-scraping-on-a-chalkboard smoothness in the writing, characters more flat than a sheet of paper, plot designed by a teenager in the middle of a hormonal crisis.
When she arrives at Lyle House, Chloe discovers that her fellow patients also have unusual powers and all is not what it seems to be.The story started off well enough, but really didn't progress from there for a majority of the book.
I also didn't like when she lied to Simon about tattling on his brother.
Simon felt horrible about his assumption, which he was originally, before she lied, right about.
Then at the end there was a sloppy character switch that left me baffled about how I should feel about the whole story.
LOLThe only character I came to like was Simon.
As the days pass, she doubts that she has powers and has a gut feeling that something isn't right in the Lyle House.
As the story progresses, her doubts for her powers and other bizarre incidents continues to trap her mind and it's concluded by the doctors that she's mentally ill.
The story continues to confuse the readers in almost 75% of the book about Chloe’s condition.
The book was worth a reading and I'm glad to say it didn't disappoint me.
This book turned me into a shameless fiend for the Chloe and Derek relationship - I adored their banter, and their romantic date in the basement with the dead bodies, and their other romantic encounter in the shower. (Note: my views on what is romantic may be deeply weird.)On the first read, I found the book a little hard to get into, but on subesequent re-reads that hasn't been a problem at all. Realistic characters, interesting powers, cliffhanger ending... I'd do a lot to get the next book!
Actual Rating: 3.5 Why is it that every time a girl says a guy is bothering her, it’s fluffed off with oh, he just likes you, as if that makes it okay?
I have to confess that I almost dnfed this book.
The main word here being -Almost-.At first it was too juvenile for me.
And the plot wasn't doing it for me.
Like, come on...
Rich girl who is the perfect daughter but the father doesn't care that much about her and her mother is dead.
Then she has her period decides to skip class and dye her hair t
Why is it that every time a girl says a guy is bothering her, it’s fluffed off with oh, he just likes you, as if that makes it okay?
Never, do you hear me?”Don’t talk to the crazy kids.
I’d mistaken her kid for a ghost, that’s all.
Maybe because I read so many good reviews about this I had high expectations but after I lowered them, I really enjoyed the read and the strange things started making sense.
Not a lot but I expect things to get better on the next books.
There were a lot of things I wanted to be.
This book was ^^SURPRISINGLY GOOD!^^ .At first I thought it was kinda weird but that made me read it more to find out what was going on.This book has everything a book needs.Interesting, mind you, very interesting, characters, mystery, crazy people, and a writing style that says, "If you put me down, so help me you will regret it.
(Well, it happened to me.)Nevertheless, Derek shines and I am looking forward to more of his keen observations and snide remarks.I will continue reading this series because I am rather curious to see where the story goes and how the characters develop.
(Wow, that was a long sentence!) She begins to look at others in the home and realises that there may be others who are also “special”.This is a YA book, written in the 1st-person (why does it seem like almost all YA books are written this way??), and was an easy read.
She can see it, feel it, imagine what it would be like to live it, but it’s no different from seeing a movie on a screen and saying, “Thank God that’s not me”."How very true.COPYRIGHT DISCLAIMER: I do not hold the copyright to any of the images used in this review.
Weird and highly specific but I honestly loved every book.
Okay, not all of them I loved - but most of them I did!This book starts off with a dream, Chloe's dream.
There she meets a group of weird people just like her!
They suck my soul into the book and make me turn into a reading zombie and just buy any book from that series so that I can see what the hell is going to happen in the next book..
No, I didn't buy the next book.
If all else fails, I'll buy the damn book.
"We'd run down the stairs together every morning all through kindergarten and half of first grade and then...
well, then there wasn't anyone to run down the stairs with anymore." This first book always kills me a little bit inside.
I'm considerate."We turn to see Derek crossing the lawn.
Now what's up?"Derek I love you.
If you stay still, it's cant find you.
If you stay still, it's cant find you.
That's sharks!
You idiot, sharks and dinosaurs can't find you if you stay still.
It's just so darn cute!!Read - May 2015.
Re read- January 2017.
5 stars.Re read 2- April 14.
Oh, God!
Have mercy, this book is so amazing.
I can't even form words properly.
It is my second time when I try to read it, I first tried some years ago and I read just the first chapters and I considered them quite boring.
But now, I went further and I'm so greatful that I did so.
Chloe is a character which I could totally relate to.
I fell for Derek/Chloe as the storyline progressed because they're a really weird couple at first glance.
But as I look more at everything that happened between them they're totally meant to be together.

Like the characters just talked the shit out of some things."Are you-?""Fine.""Are you sure you're okay?""Good enough.""Maybe you should take a cold bath.""Nah I'm okay.""If you need anything...""Just rest, I'm fine.""You should really-""I'm fine.""You're not fine.""I'll take care of it."This ridiculous conversation took up two pages and there were plenty more where that came from.
It was like OKAY WE GET IT YOU'RE FINE, CHLOE TAKE A HINT HE'S FINE.
HE'S GOING TO TAKE A COLD BATH AND REST AND HE'LL BE FINE.
It was good I just don't remember what took up almost 400 pages.
May contain SPOILERS.The Summoning is a brilliant book about a girl (Chloe) who, when she sees someone who's not really there, goes to a home for troubled children. When she's there, she meets other teenagers who are also there for things that they've done. This series is a brilliant series and one full of romance, paranormal subjects, betrayal, lies and trust. Another brilliant Kelley Armstrong series that will be re-read, and re-read, and re-read, and then finally memorised (except not by me because my long-term, short-term and overall memory sucks).
This book had an interesting premise and fairly good plot, but I never really connected to any of the other characters and there was a large section in the book where nothing was happening.
And whilst I understand it was setting up for the next book, and explanations were needed to get to that stage, I wish there was more action.I also just thought Chloe was really awkward and a bit cringey when reading from her perspective.
Despite all the things which I found wrong with the book, I thought that it was a fairly pleasant read which I did enjoy when I didn't really think about it.
I feel I should state three things before starting this review. 1. I am older than the target audience for this book.2. I like Armstrong's adult novels (that's why I picked this up).3. The first part of this review is going to include a rant. Positive remarks follow.I wanted to like The Summoning more than I did; it is after all basically "Teens of the Otherworld". The first problem occurred early on in the novel where Chloe describes herself to the reader. She is skinny, very skinny, so skinny
For large chunks of the book, I forgot Chloe was 15 because she didn't talk or think like a teenThe second problem also concerns Chloe.
This isn't so bad, but it makes Chloe and Derek look like shadows.
It made Chloe stand out in a way that being super skinny didn’t and made me think better of her.
Armstrong plays with this idea several times in the books and shows, not tells, but shows the reader that Chloe really likes, understands, and studies film.
Armstrong also seems aware of the fact that her characters are largely walking cliches, so Chloe will think "if this was a movie, this would happen, but since it's not".
From when Chloe Saunders was just a little girl, she saw ghosts.
But when Chloe hits puberty, she starts seeing the ghosts again.
As Chloe works to uncover these sinister secrets, she starts to question everything around her, from her “schizophrenia,” to what happened to her roommate who was taken away, and even to her mother’s death.My first reaction after finishing this novel was WOW.
the story was highly suspenseful and action-packed and the exciting twists and turns kept me guessing.
The novel focuses mainly on plot, so there isn’t much characterization, but the suspense, secrets, and action were more than enough to hold my interest.
Absolutely looooove this series.
This blurb like: "My name is Rebecca Butterfly and I'm the most normal, most beautiful girl at ghost school. I'm not like other girls. The only the boy I like is the only boy I can't have."I hate first person blurbs lol but this book sounds so awful I feel like I might actually love it.
Puberty brings more than periods and acne in the first book of Kelley Armstrong's new young adult Darkest Powers trilogy, The Summoning.At fifteen, Chloe Saunders still hasn't menstruated.
Or are they?But Lyle House's patients are here by no happy accident, judging by the supernatural happenings.
If only Chloe can figure out how to contact her...Though this is a new supernatural YA series, it has the same "world rules" as the author's adult Otherworld series.
This was mainly helped by the claustrophobic setting of Lyle House, which isn't haunted per se...The author's stepped her characterisation up to a new level.
This was an okay paranormal read.It did take a while to get going, and the characters felt a little distant, but I did keep turning the pages.Fifteen-year-old Chloe Saunders sees a ghost at school and freaks out. She is told she has a mental illness and is put into a group home with other kids her age, but Lyle House isn’t what it seems . . . This book doesn’t work well as a stand alone read. The ending is really the inciting incident for the next book in the series. It’s not a satisfying ending.
Chloe gets her first period and is harassed by a very gross-looking ghost on the same day - at school, of course!
Since Chloe wants above all to be normal, she willingly takes the pills, until other events and behaviors in the center cause her to question what she's been told.This was my 13th book for the month - how appropriate!!
At first I felt that the beginning chapters were not compelling enough, but now I'm thinking that the author was trying to make the reader look at two strong but opposing reasons for Chloe's behavior, and make them both believable.
