https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113110.First_Blood
So when my friend 11811 (Eleven) reviewed this book I put in a request for it immediately.Rambo shows up in a small town in Kentucky.
The local sheriff doesn't like "his kind" being in his town so he takes him and dumps him out at the end of town.
Rambo takes offense to being told that he can't be in town.
He also takes offense to Sheriff Teasle wanting to shave his beard and cut his hair.
That doesn't end so well either.I remember watching this movie when I was in about the seventh grade.
Hard.He is not very like-able in the book.
Turns out it is mostly the merit of the original story, penned by David Morell at the tail end of the sixties, a time when the American nation was torn apart by an unjust and inhumane war.
He has his pride and his anger, yet he is not a blind killing machine and would have liked to be able to fit in, if only the 'squares back home could look beyond his hippie appearance and engage him in a respectful manner.Teasle is the product of an older generation and of a precious war (Korea), one war when the Americans still could pretend to be the knights in white saving the world from anarchy and terror.
While the book does contain the thriller aspect and some of the action of the film, it is also a kind of dark character study into how a person can be affected by military training and the traumas of war.In terms of the influence of this novel on me as an author, I would say that the protagonist, John Rambo, has a number of similarities to my own John Kennedy character.
These will become even more apparent as The Drug Gang Series continues.First Blood is both a fascinating and an exciting read, probably more reminiscent of the film The Deer Hunter, in many ways, than the actual Rambo movies.
David Morrell leads a writing workshop in delivering stomach-churning on-the-body sensation. So good I stole the bat cave sequence for We Sold Our Souls.
It's been (probably) a couple decades since I last read First Blood.
Already there had been at least two movies Welcome Home, Soldier Boys (1971) and Targets(1968) in which veterans were shown as being dangerous and very deadly.But this book has survived and gone on to become a modern classic.A few difference between the literary Rambo and the cinematic Rambo.
When it comes right down to it I found myself wondering what I was supposed to think about the characters and the plot.
Even at the age of forty-two it's a good beach read.
I think this is a must read for fans of the movie. There are as many similarities as there are differences but I enjoyed both equally. I loved the movie when I was 10. I need to watch it again to see how it has held up all these years.Fantastic read. Goes on the favorites shelf.
Many ladies cried their hearts out for Virginia Wolfe, I could've cried out mine for this, but I didn'tThe Jerry Goldsmith and Dan Hill's It's a long road the song, it cried out my heart like hell
I read this book when I was 14 and thumbing through it now I seem to remember most of it, so it really must've impressed a lot.
The Swedish title, (back translated "The Duel") actually improves upon the book (but had to stand back after the success of the movie, of course).
Already then, I was so envious of my friend, who had a very nice earlier hardback without the movie tie-in cover.
Superficially small, the differences between book and film actually makes this quite a different story and if you liked (or disliked) the film, I can recommend this read.
Rambo escaped from his tiny cell, killing and maiming a considerable amount of boys that I dare say were merely placed in the setting and situation for a higher body count for the story.
So Rambo goes off into the woods, like he's some type of Hansel and fends off National Guardsman and police officers and civilians that are probably so loaded that they don't even really know what end of the rifle is supposed to be pointed away from them.
I guess in one way or another, this story is supposed to be about the denigration of our boys that came home from Vietnam.
This was no enemy, a man like himself both fought in wars, he is all American Rambo, he should have been left alone to his own devices but alas our dear author David Morrell chooses to use this bullying officer to bring out his worst but most skilled ability to kill he shows us an unforgettable Rambo, a name, a character who would did take the world by storm and be engraved in every book reader and moviegoers mind across the world.Rambo a veteran back from a brutal war that took probably the best of himself away in another hemisphere and now the person left behind having to assimilate back to society with vivid memories, terrible nightmares, for only a brief experience can bring back all the pain, all traumatic experiences, bring about fear, a rash behavior, unflinching and with no prisoners.
And for the most part, the essence of First Blood, be it Sylvester Stallone or just the imaginative projection from hearing how David Morrell describes John Rambo, is beautifully captured, more so I would say in the book because we are given the characters internal thoughts.
The director and Stallone for his part did a great job conveying through action and struggle Rambo's internal conflicts, but in the book, it becomes, even more, clearer.
Perhaps more so in the movie than here, despite the benefit of reading Rambo's internal thoughts.
3.5*Πολύ ωραία περιπέτεια με έντονες σκηνές δράσης, με αρκετές διαφορές απο την ταινία όπου ο Ράμπο ήταν ο καλός της υπόθεσης.Εδώ δεν υπάρχει καλός και κακός,αλλά δυο άντρες περήφανοι και ξεροκέφαλοι, ο καθένας με τα ελαττώματα του και μια κόντρα που φτάνει στα άκρα.Μου άρεσε το βιβλίο ,μου άρεσε που ο συγγραφέας εμβαθύνει και στους δυο βασικούς χαρακτήρες χωρίς να παίρνει το μέρος κανενός αν και προς το τέλος νομίζω οτι το παρατράβηξε όσον αφορά το δέσιμο μεταξυ τους.
A friend recently read & reviewed it, but it wasn't in my books!
It's one reason why I've kept reading his books for over 40 years.
He's never quite managed another quite as good, but he's come close.
While most will read this book now as just an action thriller, the attitudes and motivations were perfectly done.
The last time I read this (I KNOW it wasn't that many years ago!) I could really understand Teasle's attitude.
I can't say I rooted for him, but I felt a lot more empathy.I read this before I saw the movie.
Not baddly written I was torn between the 3 or 4 and finally went with 3, but it may be some better than that. Sad in its own way...seen the movie but not read the book? Read the book.
Forget whatever you think about Sly Stallone and Rambo. This book is a now-classic chase novel, a mano à mano confrontation between a damaged Vietnam vet and a sheriff, and you won't be sure whom to root for.
I've read this long time ago, as a kid in seventh grade.
Didn't have muscles, but hair was there, lots of it.
With enough Coke, I also could have swallowed even worst hamburgers, with or without onions.
Years later, muscles are here, hair is on its last legs but still holding, and I'm picky about my hamburgers far more than about my women.
Comes with the territory of middle age I guess.And I'm reading far more than shooting.
Test of time?
It's surprisingly complex book.
The fact it's a debut book of the author makes it even more impressive.
Rambo....What else do you need?:D The book is quite different then the movie in my opinion.
We get to see a Rambo and Teasle in a different perspective with different motives for their actions which is pretty interesting.
The writing style is not the best ive seen but the narrative managed to keep me interested enough.
The change of pov from chapter to chapter keeps the pacing going well and lets you analize and compare both rambo and teasles characters.
Overall a pretty good read and Id reccommend it to others to see a different take on the story.
John Rambo is a cultural icon for me like a lot of you out here.
It is then extremely ironic that I came to know that the movie's name was not Rambo perhaps only after coming to IMDB.
The book however was an extremely exhilarating read and to me was more of a thrill than the movie itself !The story is now so well known that there needn't be a detailed sketch of it out here.
You almost feel like shouting at the cop :  No, don't piss him off you idiot !
As a reader, I rarely feel such intense excitement in this book.
Solid novel with some great characterization. Rambo is an anti-hero of sorts and I found myself not as sympathetic towards him as I thought I would be. Teasle was a character that I disliked solely because of his arrogance and stubbornness. Different in some spots from the movie but overall a worth while read. Being a fan of the Rambo movies, I'm glad that I took the time to see where it all began. 3.5 stars
Rambo I. Un fost soldat de elită din Vietnam se bate cu o mulțime de polițiști într-un orășel pentru că e arestat pentru vagabondaj.
I never even had any desire to see the movie, Rambo.
I had no desire to either see the movie or read the book, but a friend a work, who I recommend books back and forth with MADE me read this.
He insisted it was his favorite book and I agreed to read it.The book is told both from the perspective of John Rambo, recently home from the Vietnam War and a small-town Sheriff.
There is no bad guy here, almost a sadness that 2 men, very much alike, can be at such odds.I would never have picked up this book, if it weren't for my friend, but I'm glad I did.
Dude. That was a deep read. More than I expected. Many passages I could reread over and over. David Morrell writes with the poetic simplicity of Laymon or Bukowski, where the words flows using ordinary language with such precision. I was never pulled from the story.
This book had everything a Rambo fan would want; action, suspense, killing, it was just great.
He looked pretty shaggy so no one wanted to pick him up, until Wilfred Teasle, the Police Chief of Madison, Kentucky, pulled up next to Rambo and asked if he needed a lift.
Once Teasle drove off far enough, Rambo started walking back to town.
The police were shocked and then Rambo shot an officer holding two of the dogs and they fell off the cliff.
Soon after Teasle died from his gun shot and that was the end of the book.
But having served in the American south at the end of the Vietnam War, I was well acquainted with the harassment service members endured at the hands of southern cops and other rednecks (I remember signs warning: "Sailors and dogs, keep off the grass"), and since I am a great fan of Morrell's writing, I decided to try the book.Though based on Morrell's novel, Stallone's movie is in no way the same story.
Where the movie is a MacDonald's burger and fries, the book a five course feast.Morrell has written that his writing is greatly influenced by the fact he lost his father in WWII and that his step-father was abusive.
The book provided more insight into the mindsets and struggles of Rambo and Sheriff Teasle, which I enjoyed because it helped the reader to understand what drove the two men.
I also thought the book left the reader with more of a sense of grayness as to who was “right” and who was “wrong” as Rambo and Teasle went to war against each other.The author included some internal dialogue with Rambo’s character where he talked to himself and tried to rationalize his actions.
Despite the age of the book, I thought it was an interesting read to show the stress of war and the stress of integrating a trainer soldier back into society.
I kind of hate giving this book two stars but I just felt the writing was without passion, depth, or any particular style.
the book could be more an object lesson to The Man to treat hippies (1972) well because they might turn out to be well-trained, slightly unhinged, bad-ass green berets who will wreck your town.
The movie had ten more years of history and was more focused on making sure you treat Vietnam vets well because they might be well-trained, slightly unhinged bad-ass green berets (who will wreck your town).
On one side we have Rambo, decorated Vietnam war hero who hasn't been able to adjust back to our world after three years of surviving a kill-or-be-killed jungle.
On the other side we have Teasle, a decorated Korean war hero who has since become the sheriff of a small town and is unable to put up with any bad attitudes.Things start out tense between them, but after a jail cell becomes too much like the POW that still haunts Rambo things get out of hand and both men are sent right back to the instincts the military drilled into them.
This book made me sad!
All the effort and strength of will.
Artifacts to adorn themselves like gaudy jewelery.
Don't get me wrong I think I understand why the Aurthur wrote the book.
Returning soldiers from Vietnam where a concern to the US government, like any brain washed automaton would be, to any administration, even today.It just stings me, that we are still traveling down the same paths, fighting the same battles against what is fundamentally the same species.Me and you!!!!!!Wakey, Wakey!!!!!!Great book, that stands very well against the side of the film.
Genuinely enjoyed this read. Picked it up b/c I'm going to Bouchercon this year, where I'll get to watch Lee Child interview David Morrell, whose Victorian murder mysteries I read w/out thinking about Rambo. Planning to read more of his books in future, though.
(Rambo's characterization went through four distinct phases between 1972 and 2008, a full-circle evolution explored in the essay "A Survivalist's Guide.") This is an angry, violent, tragic figure, who may or may not be the hero of the story, depending on with whom the reader's sympathies lie: Just as much care (and page real estate) is invested in Chief Teasle, the "antagonist," rendering this a more complicated, thought-provoking treatment of its cat-and-mouse premise than a simple manhunt actioner.
