https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52215.Illumination_Night
Vonny and Andre live in Martha's vineyard with their son Simon and live next door to an old women whose granddaughter ends up moving in.
There was really no story line or plot here and the characters felt one dimensional.
I enjoyed the writing and I loved the giant but everyone else was pretty hard to sympathize with except maybe the old lady.
I understand showing a characters weaknesses but you still have to humanize them for the reader, everyone has their strengths as well.
Nothing even happens in the story really and the ending felt lke it came out of no where and was pointless.
I think it’s about accepting that these goodbyes are not as permanent as they sound, as they feel, but mostly see-you-later’s.
It’s impossible not to be awed by her benevolence, by her humanity.Her books always convey quite a strong and heavy message, and yet it doesn’t feel like that at all.
When you reach the end, you feel like you have been a witness to something huge, an event so immense you don’t have enough words or stars in the universe to describe it.I have said this before, but I believe Alice Hoffman’s novels to be a lesson on how to be human.
one of my favorite alice hoffman books, aside from "the river king".
better.anyhow, it takes place on the vineyard, which was excellent, becuase i could picture everything in my brain.
and then you cry when everyone is redeemed, but not in a squishy-free love sort of way.
in a real way.
p.s. sometimes i get way too into books.
anyhow, it has hoffman's signature mystical aura, but unlike her later works, it kind of takes a back seat to the character development.
i loved it, and will read it again.fin.
For a book called  Illumination Night , there sure is a shadow over this story.
The majority of the time, the characters are all in significant inner turmoil.
Also, it doesn't seem like a cohesive story so much as a snapshot of a year or so of the characters' lives and personalities.
The majority of my time spent listening to audio books is while I'm exercising.
During this one, I found myself checking how much time I had left in the workouts much more frequently than usual, and counting down the tracks until the book itself was over.
You can accept the young girl's falling in love with him because we come to care about him ourselves, while realizing that she has the power to break his heart.As a writer, Hoffman leaves you with the impression that she feels deeply for her characters, regardless of their weaknesses and shortcomings.
And putting down this novel, you can feel in yourself a tender-heartedness for others that most books either don't try to evoke, or try and fail.
The lives of the ordinary year round resident's of Martha's Vineyard are the focus of this story.
An elderly woman struggling to cope with the true twilight of her life.
A rebellious teenage girl unwillingly designated to be her grandmother's helper.
And a young couple and their young son, all with their own inner struggles.Their lives are entangled in the most ordinary yet extraordinary ways.
Alice Hoffman is known for the magical element in her stories.
And while initially I struggled to engage, the prose so beautifully done kept me reading until the characters took hold of me.
Nothing magical in this book by magical realism author, Alice Hoffman.
Basically a two year chronicle of people living on Martha's Vineyard, "Illumination Nights" is a lesson in tedium.First we have Vonny who is treated horribly by her father (a stereotypical New York millionaire) but never deals or reacts to it except to develop a crushing case of agarophobia.
Her grandaughter, a 16 year old tramp moves in with her and does little besides trying to seduce Andre and flunking her high school classes.
Later she abandons Andre and takes up with a local giant, the only likable, and believable character in the book.Then a 6 year old girl is hit by a car and killed.Ugh!
This was so freaking good. The integration of the mundanity of human life along with the magic of human life was so wonderfully done. The entire story felt real, but Hoffman also managed to maintain the mystical quality of existence.So, yes, Bert. You were right. I did really enjoy this book.
Not one of Hoffman's best works. I'm usually a huge fan. The lackluster plot and characters left me feeling blah. The only highlight to me was the references to spots on Martha's Vineyard, which I've been to a few times.
Couldn't put it down. Not once. Read it in a couple of hours straight. Hypnotic. Beautiful. Hoffman is a magnificent storyteller.
The first time I read this book I was in my early twenties and never married.
I recently re-read Illumination Night and now I find myself looking at the characters in a different way since I am in my early thirties and married.
My favorite characters in the story are Eddie and Elizabeth Renny.I love the way so many different phases of life are represented in one story.Another cool aspect of the book is the town; when I re-read the book it appeared the very same in my mind's eye as it had been the first time I read it.
I love Alice Hoffman and it pains me to say that I didn't like this book. I wish there was "It was ok" star. The writing itself is beautiful; she writes like no other. I did not believe her characters. I couldn't figure out who they were or really, why I should care about them. I love you, Alice - just not this book.
Another good read. Though it was left open ended.
This book was much different than most of Hoffman's, with little of her trademark magical realism. I still enjoyed the story. The characters in Hoffman's books are always flawed. The love they so desperately want always comes at a cost. There's a darkness, a sadness, a weight. I especially loved the Giant, and Elizabeth Renney. While I have to admit there was a bit of a soap opera-ish element with Jody and the neighbors, the writing was just so beautiful and hit every heart string just where it was meant to.
Ugh. Oh my. UGH! After this depressive drivel, how on Earth did Hoffman ever get published again? (view spoiler)[ I finally decided to quit reading this mess. I was sick of the 16 year old trying to seduce her adult neighbor. The final straw for me was when the wife decided to befriend the little Lolita. Because they both watched her son nearly get hurt. REALLY?!?!? For me, this book was fake romantic twaddle. Spare me! (hide spoiler)]
The summary places undue emphasis on Jody's role in the novel; yes, she does have an affair with Vonny's husband Andre, but it is extremely brief and, incredibly, doesn't even seem to affect how the rest of the story unfolds.
The only time all of these characters really "come together" is when Vonny and Andre's son, Simon, is involved in an accident along with his friend and the Giant, and though Jody is technically there, she doesn't do anything, so how does she "bring them all together"?
Loved this Hoffman!
I love authors who are able to capture and explore the flaws of humans. Great writing and interesting character development. A very sad book in many ways, but truthful and hopeful.
3.5. Once again I find myself haunted by the story and it’s wonderful characters. Sometimes I find the circuitous nature of the story tiring. The characters go around and around in their journey of self discovery. I do find, though, that I tend to remember the storylines of all this authors books. There is always something just a little unsettling.
i loved this one, one of my faves this Fall
Alice Hoffman is great with magical realism elements, and making each of her many books stand apart with them- in this one's case, there is someone afflicted with agoraphobia, a giant, a boy who seems incapable of growing, and a teenage girl who seems hellbound on making messes of things wherever she goes.
For that reason, I don't feel like it's the best book for those unfamiliar with Hoffman's writing and plotting, but it does have enough of what I love about her writing to make me rate it 4 Stars.

One of my three all-time favorite Alice Hoffman books.
Like most of her books, it's full of magic, desperation and tragic love.
The love story between the giant and the girl (I forget her name -- it's been years) is just...incredible.
Hoffman's newer books have left me less impressed than her older ones; the older ones had plots and incredible characters, but the newer ones get too lost in dreamy otherworldliness for my tastes.
I gotta have something to hold on to, you know what I mean?
Illumination Night delivers.
(So do Turtle Moon and Fortune's Daughter.
My three fave Hoffman novels.)
AudiobookKind of a sad book - but then that's par for the course with Alice Hoffman. I had to take a break because I just was not in the mood to read about adultery but then got back to the book which ended up better the second half. Although that said, I wish someone would have come back to town although there was a kind of happiness finally for the last character in the book (finally!).
Very, very good. Compelling characters with serious flaws who are nevertheless still quite likeable. I love Alice Hoffman! There's no one else quite like her.
Hmm...this wasn't my favorite Alice Hoffman book that I've read - I liked that it had her fantasical elements, but I thought she started out normal and good and then took too many weird turns.
I'm afraid I gave up on this one. I wanted to like it, but the characters feel distant, not entirely sympathetically treated, and their collision courses seemed predictable and unpleasantly disastrous. While I don't require a happy ending for every novel I read, these characters seemed born for tragic trouble. The setting is beautifully rendered, the characters vivid, and their conflicts important. I just didn't feel I was going to gain anything by pursuing them to the ends of their different follies.
I want to give this book more than just 5 stars. I don't want it to end. I will miss the people in this book.
Thought provoking. With the break from the time I misplaced the book I will think about a review... To come
3 stars. "I liked it."It was okay, a good by the pool or beach read.
