https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33586715-timequake
Another fun, rambling visit with cantankerous old Uncle Kurt.
As with most of his works, it is not so much what he writes, as how he writes it.
He is funny.
He is amusing and entertaining.
Here's the thing: It's about a timequake, where the world goes back 10 years and everyone and everything re-lives the past ten years all over again.
Listen: Kurt is too slick, this is an allegory about how our society will re-live our past, history will repeat itself because we are too stupid and apathetic to make a change.
Imagine!
All that and Kilgore Trout.
“In real life, as in Grand Opera, arias only make hopeless situations worse.”- Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., TimequakeTimequake was one of the first books my wife ever gave me.
I WAS a huge fan of Vonnegut 20 years ago when we first got married and I loved my wife.
Clearly, I at age 23 I wasn't a fan of Vonnegut enough or trusted my wife's taste in books enough.
I think I was just fearful Vonnegut was just mailing a final novel in.
My wife was beautifully right in buying me Kurt Vonnegut.
Kurt Vonnegut was right in writing it.
I once asked someone, though, what it was like being young in the 90s and he said "it was certainly ugly" referring to the fashion, so it probably wasn't all that great), but it makes for good storytelling.Of course, a timequake is entirely unfeasible and would never occur, except it does every day of our lives.
I kept coming back to this one quote from a song by Say Anything, it goes:“I guess that everyone includes meand that’s why I’m a humanist”If anyone, Vonnegut embodies that saying, at least in this particular book.
My mother's only crime was to let my father ejaculate in her birth canal.
I don't know how many times this happened, but I assume that I am the product of one occasion.Likewise, my father only committed one crime, though, unlike my mother, he didn't repeat it.
But that's no reason for your father to kill your mother.
Why she sent them to my aunt, I don't know, because she never finished school and absolutely hated poetry, like most normal people.
What is it about women that makes men want to kill them?
I suppose.When I asked my aunt why she thought my father had killed my mother, she replied:
2ND READ-THROUGH: There’s a lot going on here. Ruminations on life and regret, but strangely enough, Vonnegut’s trademark “cynicism” doesn’t quite sound so cynical to me. Dare I say, there’s a lot of hope and gratitude contained in this - a book that functions like an autobiography moreso than the novel within the novel it’s (marginally) attempting to tell. Suffice it to say, NO ONE writes like this, or this well, or this deeply, in the way Vonnegut does. This book had me laughing and tearing up, in turn. Just spectacular!
قدیس کسی است که در یک جامعه مبتذل، با شرافت زندگی میکند.
قدیس کسی است که در یک جامعه مبتذل، با شرافت زندگی می‌کند.‌
I think people read them only because they love Vonnegut and they desperately want to experience again the simple delight of discovering books that can shake you and engulf you.
I did not enjoy Vonnegut's short stories (much as I wanted to) and I had to give up on Timequake.
At some point in his life, Vonnegut appears to have stumbled upon a formula; a superbly quirky and poignent style and a set of peculiar characters to go along.
This was only alluded to in his other books but starkly stated in Timequake.
Rest in peace, and thanks for the cat.
Come the half way point or so in this book I was rather indignantly thinking how wrong all the harsh criticism of it is.
Those explanation points!
I wanted to get right into the very paper of the book and kill them!!!!Maybe it’s worth reading as a piece on how writers suffer when they can’t write – or think they can’t write, since obviously they can.But it is worth reading for the insights into life.They say the first thing to go when you’re old is your legs or your eyesight.
The first thing to go is parallel parking.It is worth reading for his regret,rest here: https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
I'm suprised that I found some of Vonnegut's later, less talked about books as enjoyable as some of the classic ones. But I enjoyed Bluebeard, Hocus Pocus and Timequake just as much as Slaughterhouse 5, Cat's Cradle, Mother Night or Breakfast of Champions. Even though this technically isn't the last Vonnegut work, it's obvious that he was thinking of it as his swan song in fiction, and it's a near-perfect farewell.
It's extremely witty; full of humor and beauty and saddness, but told in a refreshing, lighthearted way.
I was waiting throughout the book for something to "happen" - I guess I was confusing it with another Vonnegut book I had started and then gave up on.
But by the end of this book, I really didn't care that very little "happened".
I enjoyed learning about Vonnegut's life, his family, the little anecdotes that only he could put such a witty, quirky twist on.
If through a timequake, people are made to relive the last 10 years, without free will, essentially do the exact same thing again and again, will be appreciate life any better?
We have Kilgore Trout and Kurt Vonnegut walk out of such a timequake which happened in 2001 along with his usual set of quirky caricature characters, Trouts short stories and inserts of the Vonnegut family.One of the parallel tracks is appreciation of life, art and the value.
In a short story they have to do at least two out of three of those things" The books is partly stories of the people in his life.
Perfect last novel from one of my very favorite authors. This is the first time I've re-read this since Vonnegut passed, which made this book even more amazing. I've been yelling, "I FRY MINE IN BUTTER!" all week now, making many people think I'm even more "special" than they had originally assumed.
The fact that much of the narrative consists of tangential reflections on actual events in the author's life make it difficult to distinguish between fact and fiction in this book.Obviously, there was no "timequake" in 2001; the universe did not randomly begin shrinking, launching us ten years into the past, ten years into our past, which we were then forced to relive in precisely the same way we lived it before.
At it's core, Timequake is an old fart asserting his opinion on a number of topics.
Jika kata 'Humor Cerdas' didefinisikan sebagai humor yang dibuat oleh orang cerdas, diceritakan oleh orang cerdas, disampaikan dengan gaya yang cerdas serta orang yang menyimaknya akan menjadi cerdas, kira-kira menurut Anda, ada berapa jumlah buku di dunia yang memiliki humor cerdas?Setau saya, jumlahnya hanya ada satu.
dan buku ini yang paling layak disebut sebagai cerita 'humor cerdas'.Ok, buku ini akan membuat otot perut dan otot alis pegal saat membacanya.
Dua kata ini akan menggambarkan buku secara kesuluruhan : Unik dan GokilBuku yang akan membuat kegiatan tertawa terbahak-bahak dan menggaruk kepala bisa berjalan beriringan dengan apiknya.
Paduan sempurna dari buku lawak dan cerita satire.Well, buku yang membuat kita tertawa dan merenung.
This has the distinct honor of being my favorite KV book!On re-reading 8/18/15 in preparation for English 298: The Novels of Kurt Vonnegut (which will probably be canceled due to low enrollment): After a decade, re-reading this same novel, as if in a timequake, I can only repeat what my thoughts were the first time I read it: Wow, this is one of the best book's I've ever read.
It's one of the best examples of postmodernism.
It's one of the best examples of the value of art.
But I was thoroughly confused for the first hour of the audiobook with the inclusion of the author's autobiographical bits and talking about Timequake 1 (the story I thought I was going to be reading) and Timequake 2 (which I'm still not quite sure of).
It was such an odd mix of the author talking about scenes from Timequake 1 and his real life that I thought I had checked out the wrong book.
Anyway, there was still plenty of quotable material here to make this worth my while, even though I was pretty confused by the mix of fiction and autiobiographical work.
"Ting-a-ling, motherfucker.” - Kilgore TroutThis semi-autobiographical “stew” is kind of bonkers, but I liked it. A must read for established fans.
Timequake is billed as Vonnegut’s last “novel” but it’s neither his last, nor a novel.
Hocus Pocus was the final novel from the Master, and A Man Without a Country his last book.
This is almost entirely autobiographical, with a few digressions on the career of Kilgore Trout to keep the fictional proceedings going.No complaints from me.
Kurt is on fine form, wisecracking and wise, settling into his batty old grandfather role with ease.
But his personal life was always entwined with his writing: from way back to his early 70s novels, when he began to write personally detailed prefaces.This book’s catchword: Ting-a-Ling!
jika racun anggrek hantu dalam dongeng raden mandasia dapat diolah menjadi bubur kertas dan berakhir sebagai buku berisi penuh tulisan, mungkin buku inilah hasilnya.
kisah yang ia tulis adalah parodi atas kehidupan nyata yang ia jalani.lelucon vonnegut satir dan sikapnya terhadap beberapa hal di dunia begitu sinis, tetapi dalam beberapa hal lain ia juga tampak positif, seperti ketika membicarakan pentingnya kehadiran cinta dan keluarga besar bagi manusia.saya menyebut kegiatan membaca buku ini sebagai 'usaha bunuh diri yang bisa berhasil jika kau tak mencukupkan diri membacanya'.(karena mengingat saya membaca buku ini hingga muntah-muntah, tampaknya 'tertawa sampai mati' bukanlah sekadar slogan).ting-a-ling!
“You are not enough people!”Worth reading just for this quote.A lot of fun...
I didn't know what this was, just that it was on sale for Kindle a couple of months ago and the only Vonnegut I've ever read is Slaughterhouse-Five (a favorite).
So I got this, and I read it and it .
It's not so much a novel as a description of a story about a writer, Kilgore Trout, who is Vonnegut's alter ego and imaginary friend, along with descriptions of the stories Trout wrote and then threw away during the Timequake.
Vonnegut's ramble touches on everything: life, death, marriage, art, writing, education, anything and everything.
I wouldn't recommend it as "gateway Vonnegut," but I would recommend it if you loved Slaughterhouse-Five and want to try something else.
The main premise (that of a 'hiccup' in space-time, in which the universe slid back a decade and reran the events of that time in the exact sequence they first occured) is a neat idea.
The personal anecdotes in the book, referencing Vonneguts parents, wives and children, are interspersed amongst the main 'Timequake' story.
Vonnegut referred to this book as a 'stew' of ideas - and it seems an apt description - with real people and events melding together with fictional ones.
This book, a story out of step with itself, is (in a way) a timequake - with events from Vonneguts youth and old age, scattered amongst events that never happened.
Timequake's premise is that a gliche in time results in everything that has happened in the past ten years to happen all over again, exactly as it did the first time around (with no ability to change anything, like living on "automatic").
When the Timequake finally ends ten years later, there are some calamitous results when people don't realize that they are back in control and must once again exert free-will (cars start crashing, planes collide, people tumble down stairwells).
So used to living on repeat, broadcasts and word-of-mouth are needed to alert everyone that free-will is back...
Vonnegut set out to write a science fiction novel about the eponymous "Timequake": a phenomenon that causes everyone on Earth to re-live the past ten years of their lives, aware that they're caught in a re-run, but unable to do or say anything differently than they did the first time around.
Which is a terrific sci-fi premise (and a great metaphor for those times when we feel like we have no control over our lives), but Vonnegut couldn't work out the manuscript to his satisfaction.
Some character might go to a different world or maybe time would stop and someone needs to put it back together.
The idea of a Timequake is very interesting and his use of the English language to describe things is peculiar (in a good way).
The climax of the book brings about a very interesting concept which shouldn’t be spoiled.
This book has very funny lines and paragraphs, and some have inappropriate language which might turn off some readers and parents of readers, but I see it as all in good fun.
Antes de Vonnegut, los viajes en el tiempo suponían una deliciosa fuente de enrevesadas paradojas narrativas.
Dejando a un lado momentos puntuales de relativa brillantez, Cronomoto no es más que una sarta de chorradas inconexas en las que el autor delira y entre las cuales deja caer inofensivos conatos de crítica social.
Yo, desde luego, no le he pillado el punto a la historia ni a la célebre comicidad de su autor.
Espero que este monumental tropiezo solo sea anecdótico y otras obras suyas como Matadero Cinco o Cuna de gato (que también espero leer este año) sí que hagan honor a la "indiscutible" maestría por la que es conocido Kurt Vonnegut.
Some entertaining and some thought provoking ramblings of Vonnegut....
Como siempre que leo algún libro de Malpaso, tengo que empezar quejándome por el trabajo de los editores.
Me choca (por no utilizar ninguna palabra más gruesa) que alguien identifique un buen trabajo de edición con ponerle tapa dura a un libro o con colorear el filo de sus hojas para que quede más bonito, y que deje mientras tanto el texto plagado de errores ortotipográficos.
Terminado este pequeño rant, tengo que decir que el texto de Cronomoto me ha gustado mucho.
Y eso equivale a decir que es puro HAMOR literario.
He makes me feel, something not many books do.However, let's be a little honest here: about 10% through this book, along with going through Breakfast of Champions, it seems that since his high level of success in the 1960s, Kurt stuck his head inside of his anus, and never pulled it out.
Vonnegut wouldn't have done that (and didn't do it) in his earlier works, probably because he actually BELIEVED in the stories he was telling, and not retreating inside of his personal life for extra material.If you're still curious about Timequake, don't worry.
Meanwhile, let's just leave Timequake stuck in time for good.
Yet I can't help but wonder why, if the original Timequake he keeps referring to as a story that "didn't want to be written," did he then, for whatever reason, decide to write a novel called Timequake?
The story--if you want to call it that--works primarily as a distraction from the autobiographical segments that were smeared over the original idea.
It certainly looks as if that's what he really wanted to do.If Timequake is the only thing between you and completing the Vonnegut canon, all right.
