https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817191.The_Secret_Woman
Eventually it comes out Red is married and was probably playing with Anna's affections, she becomes resigned to taking care of her increasingly ill aunt til a nurse comes along named Chantal.
The whole book is mostly Chantal's thoughts on the Creditons and her increasingly affections for the heir, named Rex. Anna at more than the halfway point cause of even more ridiculous reasons is employed as a governess to Red's child and goes on a voyage back to Red's wife's island home.
I was tempted to skip to the end cause I honestly didn't care for anyone and despised Red and Anna and their bs love story.
There were a total of 32 books published under the “Holt” name, and of those 32, approximately 23 of them were published after The Secret Woman.Victoria Holt tends to be very hit and miss.
This one is a miss.I think that, perhaps, Holt was going for an homage to Jane Eyre with this one, with Redvers as the Rochester character, the conveniently orphaned Anna as Jane, and Redver’s wife, Monique, as the ill-fated Bertha.
Again, the tension, the suspense, the drama grinds to a freaking halt while I read a three page letter written by the villain/ess (no spoilers here) as he/she is in his/her death throes.The romance is also not very romantic.
As a gothic/romantic suspense: fail.
I've always been a great admirer of the novels of this prolific author.
It took a long time for the story to gain any momentum.
There was a lot of information given to Anna Brett's childhood and how she came to be in possession of the Queen's House.
I didn't feel any emotional chemistry between Redvers Stretten and Anna Brett.
To my mind what he had done to Anna years previously (can't say more without spoilers) wasn't completely explained away satisfactorily for this reader.The author has a distinctive voice and I normally love the stories that she wove but I was quite disapponted in this one.
Victoria Holt does an amazing job at developing the characters' personalities and inner thoughts in "The Secret Woman", making everyone's (including the killer) motives perfectly clear and believable.
As always, the historical references are accurate and interesting; and the plot in general is marvelously written.Anna is a young woman who has been living with her tedious Aunt Charlotte in a cluttered old house since her parents' death.
Her plain and uneventful existence changes one night, when a blue-eyed stranger comes into her life; he tells her the story of a ship- The Secret Woman.
Günümüzde okuduğum çoğu yazarsan iyi yazıyor. Okuduğum üçüncü kitabı bunu da begendim. Kitapçıya sorduğumda Barbara Cartland gibi yazıyor demişti. Ben de hayır onun gibi yazmıyor dedim zira Cartland bildiğimiz masal yazıyordu.. Victoria Holt un kalemi daha keskin...
Check.
It's kind of anticlimactic, you know, when you've got the whole set up and the diamonds have been found and the crazed sickly wife is raging around with her evil crazed native servant and the collapsing house in the tropics is still collapsing and the dashingly handsome sea captain has just returned from his voyage and .
The eeeevil doer drinks poison by mistake, which fortunately leaves her time to write a three page letter detailing her deeds and give it to the somewhat dim but loyal and true heroine and then expire in a pale and glamourous way.
I am just too bored (nothing is happening) and there are too many patrons waiting behind me for library copies.
All of her novels follow a similar formula but for me, that formula never gets old.This book had an exotic feel.
The South Seas is such a romantic and enchanting setting for a novel like this.
It took a little while for the ‘adventure’ to begin and I didn’t always feel that Anna was in ‘danger’.The murderer was obvious, but the real mystery was more about the ‘why’.
So over all this book had a lot to love.If you are a Victoria Holt fan or a fan of the romantic/Gothic suspense genre then I am sure you will find lots to enjoy in this exotic novel!See my full review here
In this particular novel, I felt like us readers were given some pretty awesome bonus features on top of the typical recipe for gothic romance...Not only did we get the cool old mansion full of antique furniture and collectibles (seems perfect for a haunting, right?) and a castle built by a family of great wealth and power with dark secrets in excess; but we also got a voyage across the seas to an exotic island.
I also found the romance between Captain Stretton and Anna Brett to be more suspenseful in itself than what is found in most romance novels, but that actually really added to my enjoyment of the book overall.
It's been a very long time since I read a Victoria Holt book. I was a big fan of hers back when I was in my twenties, but don't remember now what I've read and what I haven't. Anyway, once I started this, I remembered why I loved her so much. However, towards the end the story began to drag for me, and when it was over I was glad to be able to move on to something else. I don't remember feeling that way about Holt before.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
My review for this book will be posted on Romancing The Book Blog soon!
gripping.... one word to describe this book.... very amazing would read it over and over again
This was excellent! I love the twist ending. This was a page turner and so much about the characters was not so obvious.
However, after I read a book, I always try to write out my feelings on the story when I finish.
Other times, I just feel up to writing a very basic review.
So, if the following review doesn’t really say much or deal too much with the story or plot, that’s probably because I wasn’t moved by one or the other or both to write more than I did.
So, she lives with her aunt and learns her aunt’s trade: antique sales.
(Though this was my second time reading this story, it was long enough between readings that I didn’t remember how it ended.
I found out that Victoria Holt is actually one of several pseudonyms used by the author depending on the genre of her novels.
The story is about a young woman who was orphaned as a child and raised by an eccentric aunt in a decaying mansion.
She falls in love with a sea captain whom she later discovered was married to a rather unbalanced woman from a South Sea island.
She later becomes the governess for his child.
With many plot elements that seem to be borrowed from Jane Eyre and Rebecca, this novel was a quick, but rather predictable read.
This was one of those stories where I felt uncomfortable the whole way through. It was an eerie and unsettling atmosphere and I felt a sense of claustrophobia and doom. It held me in suspense but at the same time I knew who the "villian" was all along. A favorite author but this is not one of my favorites.
I read all or most of Victoria Holt's books as a teenager so it's fun to read them again after all these years. Ideally, you'd like the heroine and her love interest to spend a little more time together than they do in this book.
Secret WomanIt took a while for me to get involved in the story, but when I did, it was difficult to put down. Guessing until the end.
I never dislike Holt's novels, this one just moved a little slower for me, and I didn't connect with the stoic heroine, so I docked a star or two. Has some good twists and turns though, especially that ending!
I figured out the"who" but the "why" was a bit of a surprise. Enjoyed this book and will read others from this author.
My favourite of Victoria Holt's gothic romances. Redvers Stretton stole my heart as much as he stole Miss Anna Brett's.
I really enjoyed this book
Kind of slow but so many crazy reveals at the end. That's what I love about Victoria holt, what seems so ordinary and almost boring becomes something so unexpected. Always a twist!!
"Los pecados que se hacen de dos en dos, se pagan de uno en uno".
Reviewed by JulieBook provided by NetGalleyOriginally posted at Romancing the Book After Anna’s parents move to India, she is sent to live with her Aunt Charlotte.
While she is waiting for Charlotte to conduct her business, Anna sets eyes on Captain Redvers Stretton for the first time.
In many of the romantic suspense novels of that time period, some scandal could be hinted at , but for the most part these books were chaste, no premarital sex or sex scenes at all.
Meanwhile, Anna is fascinated by the Creditons, a wealthy merchant family who have built a massive copy of a Norman castle nearby and who occasionally buy and sell furniture through Aunt Charlotte’s shop.On Anna’s first visit to Crediton Castle as a young girl, she meets the enigmatic Redvers Stretton, the illegitimate son of Edward Crediton who has been brought up as a member of the household and now captains one of the family’s trading vessels.
Nesta noite ela fica conhecendo a história da Mulher Secreta: o navio mais famoso criado pelo pai do rapaz (a rica família construía navios e os usava numa companhia naval) e todas as tragédias ligadas a ele.Depois deste ponto do livro a vida de Anna dá uma volta completa e logo ela se vê como empregada na casa da esposa do Comandante (pai de Redvers e de Rex - filho mais velho, tido com a esposa) graças a ajuda da antiga enfermeira de sua tia Charlotte (uma moça muito alegre e que se tornou melhor amiga de Anna).
When Aunt Charlotte suddenly dies, Anna takes a job suggested by Chantel, as a governess in the home of a wealthy English family in the shipping business.
Rex is the heir apparent, consumed with the business, but Red is not unhappy about that since he loves his ships and the sea.
It was on one of those South Pacific islands, however, where Red met his wife, and island beauty whose family forced him to wed her when she came up pregnant.In this fascinating story, it seemed everyone harbored secrets, even Anna, who hid from her friend her love for Red Stretton.
Next door, in a replica castle, live the rich Creditons, who are full of secrets, and the handsome Redvers, a mysterious man whom Anna becomes friends with.Anna begins the narration.
I began to wonder if I could trust the narrators...I especially liked the historic house full of interminably ticking clocks.
Anna deserved better, and I kept wondering throughout the book if Anna would get over her feelings for him and find someone worthy to love.
Despite my frustrations, the book was well written and kept me turning the pages in suspense, and I will try other books by Holt.
