https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/554674.The_Story_of_the_Trapp_Family_Singers
Regarding the movie, her youngest son, Johannes, said, "This was the Hollywood version, of the Broadway version, of the German film version, of the book that my mother wrote." That sums it up quite nicely!
I enjoyed reading about what really happened, instead of watching Hollywood's fictional creation.I thought Maria told their story in a very pleasant, friendly, and interesting manner.
That goes for all the other family members, too!If you have an interest in the famous movie, or the von Trapp family, you will enjoy this book.
So, if you're interested in reading about a family that leans on their faith, you'll enjoy this book.
The Story of the Trapp Family Singers, is a “must-read” for every family attempting to incorporate Thomas Jefferson Education in their home. I say this because among many others, the following lessons are taught in this book:1) Trust in God2) Work together for the good of ourselves and others3) Education can happen outside of a school I pulled this book off the shelf for the second time because I was feeling rather discouraged and knew it was just what I needed to get me back on track.  Like Jo
I say this because among many others, the following lessons are taught in this book:1)	Trust in God2)	Work together for the good of ourselves and others3)	Education can happen outside of a school	I pulled this book off the shelf for the second time because I was feeling rather discouraged and knew it was just what I needed to get me back on track.
The Trapps also demonstrate that children can be educated outside of a school.
The Trapp family is an excellent example of a family trusting God, working together, and educating children with the family.
The first part of the book covers the same ground as the film, the last two thirds concentrates on their life after leaving Austria and their singing career in America.This book could have been more descriptive for me, I felt I didn't get to know the family much throughout the book, for example I didn't feel any of the children's individual personalities came through or scenes created in my mind.
I would have loved an epilogue, I wonder what their many children went on to do in life after their very musical start?
What a powerful story and testament to a spirited woman, a gentle loving husband, and ten extraordinary children.
I felt Plummer portrayed a man who loved his children very much, but lost his way in the depth of his grief for his late wife.
I think the book alludes to the fact that Captain Georg also had these moments and often traveled great distances away from home because he couldn't bear to see his home and children without his beloved wife.
The book certainly confirms the kind, dedicated, patient, loving husband and father that he was.
This was such a great book written by Maria herself!!
The movie really captured my impression of Maria's real personality, at least according to this book.
She said at one point that she was happy that they lost all their money because it gave the children an opportunity to let their true characters shine through--and they were solid, wonderful characters.
It also gave them an opportunity to see how generous and loving their friends and neighbors where.
I know I wouldn't have been so happy about losing all my money!!
Really a great and interesting read.
The true story behind the acclaimed musical/motion picture The Sound of Music, this book is a powerful testament to love and family, even in the horrors of WWII.
A few elements were accurately reflected in the play/movie: Maria was in the convent preparing to be a nun.
The book chronicles the story of the Trapp family for years and years as they traveled the world as a singing sensation, added three more children, bought a farm, opened a music camp.The writing was at times delightful and at other times a bit slow and contrived.
But this was Maria Augusta Trapp's first book (she wrote another one later - that's on my list as well), and she was a singer, not a writer.
This is true to the end and I caution you that the two final chapters require several boxes of Kleenexes to make it through.
P.S. I must confess that I did go back and read those final chapters and you can make it through everything except the chapter called "A Letter".
Even if you skip that chapter I think you can make it through.
"A Letter" is just too heartfelt to get through without crying, in reading it you feel the emotion that it was written with to the extent of it happening to you today.
I loved it. The story swept me up. The courage, faith, industry and vitality of the whole Trapp family make me sigh in admiration.
What a wonderful more complete story of the Trapp family then we get from The Sound of Music -- which I love and why I read the book. Heart warming story of faith and family.
There was so much more to her life than was portrayed in the film, and it was exciting to really get to know her in her own words.Maria von Trapp shares her life from convent to barroness to family singing group - from Austria to America – filling the pages with humor, love, faith and family, and lot's and lot's of stories.
My favorite story remains that of her engagement to Captain Georg von Trapp – much more humorous than the movie version.“None of the people we had met on the boat lived in New York.
We discovered the New World by ourselves.”Her faith was such a part of her life, her family, and thus her story.
For pure sentimental reasons I loved it, but if it wasn't for The Sound Of Music this would be just another mediocre book.
It was published in 1949 so the style of Maria's writing is archaic and old-fashioned; people don't talk like they did 60 years ago, even if English wasn't their first language.
It was good to read how the family's story actually happened, though, and not the whitewashed version of TSOM.
However, it would've been nice if she had fleshed out the story of her life before meeting the Von Trapp family.
I was curious to read the book that the famous film/musical version was based on.
I preferred the book because it was more realistic and I learned much more about the Trapp family and their adventures beyond leaving Austria.
Maria von Trapp has a natural intimate writing style and is very religious and spiritual.
As an atheist I found this interesting and think it could be quite comforting if you are going through a rough time.
They went through some tough times yet they usually managed to find a positive solution by a bit of luck, praying and using their entreprenerial skills.
While I enjoyed reading this pleasant tale of an Austrian family emigrating to the USA and then setting down roots, I found it a bit exhausting to see Maria von Trapp's world through her nun-coloured glasses.
So after reading the entire book, I read the last chapter and suddenly had a feeling of mistrust develop, about Maria von Trapp.
I can only imagine what she left out, in an effort to promote only the positive side of her story.If you're reading this to get to know the real tale behind "The Sound of Music" (as it is boldly emphasized on the cover,) you need not read further than the first few chapters.
Loved it! Maria writes it as if you're her friend. She's kind of hilarious. I love some of the anecdotes she shares about funny situations that develop from her not-yet-firm grasp of the English language. I had no idea the depth of the family's faith, or their experience in America. The first half of the book is what the movie is based on, but the second half all deals with them in America and it was really interesting to hear her perspective on Americans, especially considering it was during WWII.
Meh, demasiado happy flower todo.
Debe ser un lugar donde te sientas en casa, lo cual para nosotros significa sentirse libres".Una de las cosas que más me han gustado del libro ha sido la manera tan positiva que tiene esta familia de pensar, siempre hay alguien que tiene menos, alguien que lo pasa peor.
Vemos los estragos de la guerra desde un punto distinto, no de una manera dramática sino de una manera real y de pasada, por lo que está presente en la trama pero quedando en un segundo lugar.El libro cuenta una historia muy bonita y me ha dejado ganas de volver a ver la película, pues ya no la recuerdo bien.
I first read this book back in about 5th grade as a Scholastic Book.
It is one of about a dozen books I have re-read.
And I've re-read it many times.
So much had been changed to appeal to the movie audience.
I have recommended the book to several and since I finally lost (probably lent it and it was never returned to me) my copy from the 1960's, I bought a new copy to re-read yet again.
So much better than the movie!!!I just reread the book.
I see many major changes made for the movie for a more broad appeal.
Disappointing changes.
I'm glad that Maria wrote a book and that I could find out about what the family did after escaping Nazi-occupied Austria.
It was funny in some parts and slow in others--you can tell the book wasn't written by a writer, but by a real person just telling her story (so that is both good and bad.) I enjoyed seeing how much faith the Trapp family had and how they were willing to submit their will to God's in all kinds of dire circumstances--I was inspired to try to face my own trials with the same positive outlook and total reliance on God. Worth reading and inspirational--I would give it more than three stars but the writing style made parts a little slow for me.
The True Story that inspired the film/ play "Sound of Music".
This book barely resembles the events of the film.
However, that does not make it any less satisfying.
This is truly one of the most interesting biographies you will ever be sucked into.
Maria Trapp is able to laugh at herself but at the same time it feels like this book is deeply biased to her point of view.
Interesting, fascinating, tense sometimes, often funny and never less than enveloping.
A book for "yer and yer and yer!"Laura-Lee (Was Here)
Such a great book.
I wonder when she wrote it and what inspired her to do so?
I'm wondering if she was offered a book deal or just did it of her own accord?
I wonder how much of the book is straightforward truth and how much is a bit slanted to sound more positive?
Just things I'm curious about!An excellent autobiography, really encourages spiritual strength, focus, and positivity in the face of true adversity (war, poverty, miscarriages etc).
It's part inspiring and part intimidating haha :D It's a wonder they survived all of it!
The Story of the Trapp Family Singers by Maria von TrappWith nearly 1,500 Broadway performances, six Tony Awards, more than three million albums sold, and five Academy Awards, The Sound of Music, based on the lives of Maria, the baron, and their singing children, is as familiar to most of us as our own family history.
it certainly was interesting that the book was so different then the movie. Not even the names of the children were the same. There is nothing in the movie about the second part of the book about their life in the US. There also was no dramatic escape from Austria, which also occur far earlier than right after their honeymoon.
I loved this book. After reading it, I find the musical pales in comparison - knowing the real trials and tribulations the family went through makes the whole thing seem almost a mockery to me. Anyway, the book is a great piece of history, and a must-read.
The merriment was such that several times he nearly choked and fell backwards, "his thin hair fell over his forehead, his arms waved in the air, his world-famous moustachelet quivered - he was an embarrassing sight."(Heinrich Himmler confiscated and inhabited the lovely Trapp villa outside Salzburg during the war; after the war, the Trapps sold it to a Catholic seminary and today it's a hotel.)Also not addressed in the movie: Maria's fear of Negroes.
And for the most part, it delivered - an interesting, easy to read expansion on a familiar tale, that suffers a bit from a lack of depth.By now, the basic story is probably familiar to most people - a young nun-to-be leaves her abbey to become a governess to a family of seven children.
And as a fan of the movie, it was interesting to read the story in more detail, see what happened after they left Austria, and learn how the movie differed from reality.
And the children are referred to in passing really, without much detail on their personalities or interests.
I would give this a *3.5* this book by Maria von Trapp.
Maria von Trapp gives an honest depiction of her meeting the family when she is hired a a teacher for the daughter also named Maria who was in poor health.
within a year Captain Georg von Trapp becomes close the Maria as well.
start a career as the von Trapp family singer and tour the USA, in the mid 1940s they find a farm in Vermont and build life there.
If you are fans of the Sound of Music and want to know more about the family this is a good read.
Just a tad bit long, the end is not as exciting as the beginning.
The religious references, too, are quite repetitive in the end.
It feels like reading about a whole family of Pollyannas: always happy, always positive, somewhat reckless.You've seen the musical - The Sound of Music - or the movie of the same name.
Maria, an aspiring nun, gets a job as a private teacher in the family of widowed naval commander Georg Johannes von Trapp.
Her writing is pleasant and it often makes you feel part of the family.
When I saw this book available written by Maria Von Trapp, I decided to read it and I am glad I did!!The book tells the story of the Von Trapp Family and goes beyond where the movie ends, to their life in the United States after they had to leave Austria during WWII.
The book was written in 1949 by Maria Von Trapp (played by Julie Andrews in the movie) and conveys her boundless optimism, energy, can-do attitude, and bottomless faith, during many good years and many tough years the family had together.
While this book is long and a slow read, I enjoyed learning the true details and misadventures of the von Trapp family.
Throughout all the tumult and crazy ventures, it is obvious that God was always there for them, pulling them through circumstances that were unusual and would frighten most people ...
but not Maria von Trapp.
Their determination to remain true to themselves and God instead of meeting the whims of their financial backers is what helped them remain original and unique to their audience, especially in their American tours.
While many roadblocks hindered their endeavors, God always pulled through for them and Maria recounts it nonchalantly and gives the glory to God.
