https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27209486-modern-lovers
I really like writing book reviews, and I’d like to think I’m not so bad at it.
Things happen – the kids get together, the adults are approached by an agent wanting the rights to their story for a bio pic about the friend who actually found fame before her untimely death, they experience marital tensions and ennui – and then the book ends with just a very brief mention of what happens next for each character, like the one-sentence descriptions that flash next to characters’ faces at the end of a movie.
And I don't care if that was Straub's intent, it literally pained me to think I was respecting them by giving them my attention.
(I actually cannot decide who had the most boring problem, it's so hard to make that call.) Jane closed her eyes.
A new baby." "A new baby made out of butter.""Best kind," Zoe said, nuzzling as in close as she could, and then even closer.Ew. It's like the last scene in a Full House episode.
The worst part about this book was that stuff kept on happening that made me say "that would NEVER happen like that." The one example I can think of immediately is one that happened at the end of the book.
Elizabeth, Andrew, Zoe and Lydia met in college and together formed their band, Kitty's Mustache.
Zoe is a lesbian, Lydia kept her distance from the others, whilst Elizabeth and Andrew became a couple.
The band fell apart, Elizabeth and Andrew got married, and Lydia forged a separate successful career.
The couples struggle to come to terms with the past, worry about the future, the rising tensions in their relationships as their lives fall apart and try to come to terms with the evolving nature of their identities.The characters in the novel can be irritating at times but this is often a reflection of real life.
Hipster mid-life crisis and teen love, not exactly riveting material. Some funny moments, but mostly one great big white people problems blog post.
If as The Beatles said, "All you need is love," then why does it make everyone so crazy? Emma Straub's tremendously enjoyable  Modern Lovers  looks at love and sex and relationships among two intertwined families, and how we sometimes let our past history affect our present and our future.Zoe, Elizabeth, and Andrew met in college, and the three of them, along with another fellow student, Lydia, formed a band called Kitty's Mustache, which gained some notoriety while they were at Oberlin. Elizabe
looks at love and sex and relationships among two intertwined families, and how we sometimes let our past history affect our present and our future.Zoe, Elizabeth, and Andrew met in college, and the three of them, along with another fellow student, Lydia, formed a band called Kitty's Mustache, which gained some notoriety while they were at Oberlin.
privileged brooklyners experience middle-age ennui. cue the world's smallest violin.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 StarsMy face the entire time I was reading Modern Lovers . . . .  (Aren’t I adorable?)Let’s just snag a little quotey quote from the book in order to explain what you’re getting into with this one, shall we? “The novel will be inspired by the tropes of classic love stories such as Romeo and Juliet and Tristan and Isolde, set in modern-day Ditmas Park, Brooklyn, with two neighboring families falling in and out of love simultaneously
Readers quickly discover the much sought after “life rights” are merely a jumping off point in order for us to get involved in the lives of Zoe and Jane, restaurateurs on the brink of divorce – Elizabeth and Andrew, a successful real estate agent and her manboy husband – and Harry and Ruby, former playmates as toddlers – potential sex partners as teens.This isn’t anything that’s going to change your life, but much like The Vacationers my reaction upon finishing was .
3 stars If you strip Emma Straub's novel Modern Lovers down to its essence, you're left with a contextually similar midlife crisis novel as her earlier The Vacationers, with a little less humor, and a much less enchanting locale (I've nothing against Brooklyn, or the gentrified, artsy section of Flatbush known as Ditmas Park, but it can't possibly compare to the exotic surroundings of Mallorca.) This is not to say I disliked this book; I was just hoping for something a little more substantive than pseudo-hipsters grousing about their lives starting to fall apart.
Yay! I won! :) Thank you Goodreads First Reads!
At some moments in our life it's just our right to be completely irrational right??? I mean I know in my heart and soul that this book deserves more than one star.I know it. The author invested so much time in writing it, there were developed characters, a plot, good writing..... Surely I should award this two stars at least and be on my merry way??? But there's just one teeny, tiny little problem.... I hated it. Okay. So maybe I didn't completely hate  "it"  but more the whole reading experienc
I didn't like any of the characters in this book.
Sometimes it's more interesting reading about characters that you don't like / people that you can't relate to.
But usually in books like those the story keeps me interested.
So maybe if the structure of the book had been to my liking I could have found some enjoyment.
But the book did have one or two lovely moments.
less well written books with a higher rating but this one was just so disappointing to me.
It sounded right up my street as I usually like family saga type books or those ones about people that all live within the same neighbourhood...just sadly not this time.
Set in a Brooklyn that's so recognizable to me that I actually checked to see if some of the restaurants exist in real life (not that I can tell), this story of teenage love and married parents manages to be both funny and deeply true about love and relationships.
I simultaneously wanted to be the teenagers, with their understanding but deeply involved parents, and the adults, with their fabulous jobs and secrets.
If you've never read her before, I highly recommend this one--and if you have been a fan, this is a book to save for reading on vacation.
The thing about this book is it is largely about adults reminiscing on how much cooler they were when they were young. I found myself wishing I were reading a different book, one about their younger years, so I could better understand how each of them became so self-centered and insufferable. Especially Andrew. Yet I still read it to the end. Have no idea whether I loved or hated it, but I finished it, so that's something.
Calling it quits on this one! I really didn't expect to dislike it but gosh, these characters are dull. And you know what? Just once I'd like to read about someone who's happy in their marriage. Is it an impossible story-line? Anytime I pick up a book depicting characters in their forties they're always having a midlife crisis that revolves around their significant other and tedious suburban life. Yawn. Poor you. Next!
Now in their 40s (I assume, I refuse to look up people's ages) the trio is asked about signing away their rights in order for a movie to be made about Lydia's life.While that plot plays out, we also have Zoe unhappy with her decades long marriage to her wife Jane and is struggling with what to do next.
I mean if you are going to make a character a great songwriter, maybe have an actual song for readers to read.Also we kept hearing about how the song Lydia is known for Mistress of Myself was great too, and once again, we don't see any lyrics to that song either.
For me, even fiction should be kind of based on some authentic experiences and I think that's what's lacking in Emma's books - the wisdom conveyed from authentic experiences in real life, then translated symbolically into fiction.
But I suppose the main reason Emma has a book contract and attention fawned on her is due to her famous poppa, Peter Straub.
Putting out Emma's mediocre books becomes a way the editors and publishers please Poppa Straub and others in the circle of money and influence.
Sadly, too many great writers are ignored, while Emma continues to get paid large amounts for writing soap operas and beach books.
I honestly can't believe the amount of glowing reviews and recommendations for this book.
The characters, the plot, all of it - completely uninteresting.
I had no feelings towards the characters.
One of the narrator's inner thoughts: "it was funny.
But not ha-ha funny." ???Very repetitive passages as well.
How many times did we need to have the same conversation between Elizabeth and Andrew regarding the contract before something actually happened?By the end I was so frustrated that I had spent any of my time on this and angry at myself for being swayed by positive reviews.
Modern Lovers is a good, fresh, fast, funny, perfect summer beach or pool read if you can overlook the unnecessary crudeness and overuse of profanity - which I mostly can.
Straub definitely has a talent for creating smooth plots that carry the reader along with her flawed and muddled characters.
In this novel I don't think she quite hits the sweet spot like she did in The Vacationers, but you know what - I continued reading and I cared and I wanted to see it through to the end so she obviously met her objective.
This is a novel I'll be recommending all summer to patrons at the library.
3.5 Stars
Straub's writing induces absolutely NO empathy in me.
Just an okay book. I was never able to get invested in any of the characters, other than wanting to strangle Andrew.
I get that this is a summer read. But a dog named Iggy Pop? Gratuitous discussion of NYC real estate? Significant plot developments affected via newspaper excerpts? An entire cast of Oberlin graduates? Whoever voted on this for book club should be excommunicated.* This book was bad in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be.Literary world without end. Amen.* I have a copy, if you want to borrow it let me know.
At first I wasn't sure if I would finish-but Emma Straub writes really well. As I spent more time with her characters I began enjoying that time more fully. It entertained in a pleasant way and kept me listening. It's not going to knock your socks off-it was -well-nice.PS I liked the articles at the end that told where the characters were in their lives-that too was..."nice"
Finished the last sentence of this novel while pumping my fist into the air: hell yes, Emma Straub. Great characters, compelling story arcs, and a gaggle of people you sometimes want to throttle but always want to hug.
Ahh! New Emma Straub! Ahh!
I was so excited when I saw that it was one of the books for this month, because I had hoped it would have been selected for another book club I am a part of, but it wasn't.
I feel like there was so many places this book could have gone, and yet, I felt like I was reading a story about what could have been anybodies life.I had a hard time relating to the characters, aside from Elizabeth's worry for Iggy Pop. The adults were in their 50's; they've lived their lives, they've gone on adventures, they are stable(-ish).

1/5 stars This is the second book I've read by Emma Straub.
I didn't love that novel either but it was okay and I cared about some of the characters.
I gave Modern Lovers a try because I don't like judging an author's work from one novel alone.
Throughout all 300-some pages the novel was trying too hard.
When a teenage boy was describing his room with purple walls - "It was like living in a giant eggplant".
And the insides of eggplants are actually white so this doesn't even make sense.
No character in this book made me want to know more about them.
this is a potato chip book, meaning i stayed up all night reading it from beginning to end and then i felt like i kind of ate a bunch of potato chips and they were salty and pretty good and i had a headache and felt stupidso anyway i think what i'm trying to say is that i liked it and i'm never gonna read it again
I feel like maybe 2 stars might be a little generous..
but I'm kind of exhausted and I feel bad that I'm so behind on reviews :(Pretty sure every character within Modern Lovers was annoying.
Then after getting annoyed in the beginning of this book..
it's like I couldn't look away from the trainwreck that was happening.
Glad it wasn't a long ass read because then I would've fallen asleep.
Or maybe if the characters weren't stupid AF in this book..
then maybe I would've like it.
However, it sucked ass and I will never reread this ever again.
This book is so fun to read, I may need to adjust my rating.
Set during a summer in New York City, this book is the perfect companion for subway rides, afternoons at home and vacation travel.
Whereas 'The Vacationers' tracked the emotional journey of multigenerational New Yorkers out of the city, 'Modern Lovers' is an urban tale that stays firmly within Brooklyn's geographical boundaries.
The characters are all enchanting and fun to be around, none of them so perfect as to be unbelievable nor so flawed as to be detestable.
Her sentences can be a soufflé, followed by a perfect harmony of ricotta cheese and heirloom tomatoes.
