https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18189606-since-you-ve-been-gone
I get the Kelly Clarkson song running through my head every time I see this book. :P
In a well-ordered universe.... everybody would read this book.Seriously. It was amazing. If you loved, or even mildly enjoyed Amy and Roger's Epic Detour, pick up this book. YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT.
I LOVED THIS OH SO MUCH. <3
This was the first Morgan Matson book I read and it's still just as good.
I love the friendship element, I love the facing fears element, I LOVE FRANK.
I just love this book a lot.Reread via audiobook May 6-May 10 2016 for #monthofmatson YEAR 2This has solidified itself as my favorite MM book.
It's so freAKING GOOD AND I FEEL SO MANY FEELINGS RN.
I love Frank I love Emily I love EVERYONEReread for #monthofmatson 2017TEAM FRANK FOREVER.Reread July 2018 for #monthofmatsonI think this has solidified itself as one of my all-time favorite books.
also frank.
Watch my interview with Morgan Matson here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVqHE...Seriously the best book I've read in a while! I am completely obsessed with Morgan Matson's writing and how she can make such a cute story without it being sickly sweet or cheesy! This is a story that will stick with me for a while and I definitely want to see it become a movie!
And I can totally get into the excitement of a good-girl-gone-bad story of naughty youth days and craziness, but the problem is that none of the things Emily actually does are particularly exciting or dangerous or rebellious.
Yes, apple-picking makes this very random list of adventurous stuff which Sloane sets for Emily to do.
I felt zero connection to Emily and zero interest in Sloane.Also, did you know that naked bathing is so rebellious these days?
Now, actually standing in front of the water and contemplating swimming in it naked — with my friends — things were no longer seeming quite so simple.
And also romance, of course.It is, in other words, as if someone took all of the best contemporary tropes and wrote them on lil pieces of paper and then tossed them in the air and then they floated down like confetti or snowflakes onto Morgan Matson’s angel head and she wrote this book.I am a sucker for road trips and for bucket lists and for playlists and for snack descriptions and for summer and for banter and ESPECIALLY for when the friendships are more prevalent in a book than the budding romances.And this book nails all of that.
It was everything I wanted it to be, yet nothing I expected it to be and so much more.In other words, I CANNOT EXPRESS MY LOVE FOR THIS BOOK ENOUGH, AHHThis book was unlike any contemporary novel I've read before.
The characters were amazing, the plot was one of the best I've ever read, the setting was just so vivid that i found myself completely lost in this book and shutting out everything going on around me, this is how you know you love a book.
This is definitely a book that's going on my favourites shelf, 
in-fact one of my favourite books of all time
what follows is a summer of growth and change for emily, as she branches out under sloane's indirect influence, tries new things, makes new friends and with her parents conveniently distracted all summer long, finally gets her answers.this is a book in which there are no "heavy" problems.
looks like emily isn't the only one who has grown this summer - i learned that it is possible for me to appreciate books even when teens aren't getting slaughtered by zombies or bears.
I thought this book was the perfect summer read and it put me in a great, summery mood.
First of all, the reason the book says that she disappeared was totally weird and I feel like Emily would have known about it, like there's no way she could have been taken by surprise that her friend was going.
Other than the weird premises of Sloane disappearing, I realized as I was reading flashback scenes of Sloane and Emily's friendship that Sloane really wasn't that great of a friend.
❝Real friends are the ones you can count on no matter what. The ones who go into the forest to find you and bring you home. And real friends never have to tell you that they’re your friends.❞  This book was so fun and cute. I rarely read young adult contemporaries because I feel like I've outgrown that stage of my life, but Since You've Been Gone gave me all the giddy school girl feels that I've missed from way back when while I was in high school.I just loved the whole concept of the list and
I rarely read young adult contemporaries because I feel like I've outgrown that stage of my life, but Since You've Been Gone gave me all the giddy school girl feels that I've missed from way back when while I was in high school.I just loved the whole concept of the list and the friendship that Sloane and Emily had.
Morgan Matson was able to portray the ups and downs, the ugly and the beautiful, and how strong friendships will always endure distance and time.The characters in Since You've Been Gone were definitely the best parts of the book.
asjhsflkdlgjfgkfg;kf LOOOOOOVED THIS OMG MORGAN MATSON HOW DO YOU DO THIS TO ME.full review to come.
Jsvsjsbaks I read this in a day and although it was super slow to start I LOVED IT SO MUCH, MORGAN MATSON IM COMIN FOR YA!!
This book was just made of sunshine and butterflies and unicorns. It has been a while since I’ve read something so fluffy and heart-warming.  if this girl ever wrote a book, this would be it Although this book gave me serious paper towns vibes.  I mean seriously;“perfect” girl:  checkwho also happens to be the missing (best) friend:  checkadventure to find her:  checkmc finding oneself along the way: checkroad trip:  checkFEATURING Sloane; AKA (Margo)  pretty much a manic pixie dream girl, every
Granted, she is her best friend, but towards the beginning I felt like Emily was the only one who was putting in any effort into their friendship at all, and it made me feel super bad for her.
loyal, where she started off as a shy girl she managed to confront her fears and become a more confident person by the endEmily as a character honestly felt clichéd at the start of the book.
Her character managed to developed a lot and managed to become a whole new person by the end of the book.I felt like her transformation was really genuine and it was great to follow her as she stepped out of her comfort zones.
That was basically my reaction when I found out there was going to be a new book by Morgan Matson.
I've got to mention that she is one of the most underrated authors ever, which is not fair because her books are amazing!
I, myself, wouldn't have heard about Amy and Roger's Epic Detour and Second Chance Summer if it weren't for Goodreads.
So I guess I'm glad I'm on this site and OH MY GOD, YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW HAPPY I AM THAT MORGAN MATSON IS WRITING NEW BOOKS!
I adore her and I just know that I'll love it no matter what!
All of Morgan Matson's books that I've read so far have been 5 stars for me. ❤️
Because I was very much inspired by the story I have just read about two best friends and how they shaped each other to be the persons they are.
It’s what Emily in the story believed too until one day, she wakes up with her best friend, Sloane, completely vanishing leaving no trace except a list of things to do for Emily, things that Emily wouldn’t dare do but if it meant leading the way back to her best friend, she just probably would.
In a well ordered universe everyone will have read this book and loved it just as much as I did!!What a fantastic read this book has been!
It made the book, characters, world etc all seem incredibly real and I truly felt like I was there in the story with Emily our main character.
The writing was just so real and honest, making it pretty hard for you to not be gripped to be honest!The main characters in this book will always have a special place in my heart.
I want to spend my summer with them because I'm sure I'd have the best time!
This was a little hard for me to connect with because I've never had a friendship that wound so tightly into my existence.The thing is, Matson writes the book so that you DO believe that Emily would feel this badly about Sloane leaving.
I couldn't stop reading or thinking about the book - it felt like Morgan Matson reached in and squeezed my heart after every single chapter.
Every single secondary character is a gem, from Emily's parents, the playwrights, to her little daredevil brother Beckett, to Dawn, the pizza delivery girl to Collins, the doofy best friend of Emily's love interest, Frank (more on him in a second).
I HAVE NO WORDS.
I ended up giving it a 3.5, because while I enjoyed reading it in the end, I definitely had some issues with it.First of all, I started to think the point of the book was Emily realizing Sloane wasn't a very good friend after all.
This reinforced the thoughts I kept having that this book, while fun, felt a little amateur.But beyond these gripes, I did end up having a fun time reading it.
I loved the conversation she had with Frank about how she shines now.Their relationship was fun to watch unfold, and while I found aspects of this book a little tedious, I ultimately had a fun time reading it.
The activities on the list are not exciting at all, but thank goodness Emely befriends Frank, Dawn and Collins, as they make the story more entertaining.The story goes in two times, back with Sloane and in the present with his new friends.
Las actividades de la lista no son para nada excitante, pero gracias a Dios Emely se hace amiga de Frank, Dawn y Collins, ya que ellos hacen la historia más entretenida.La historia va en dos tiempos, atrás con Sloane y en el presente con sus nuevos amigos.
4.5 A great story that makes me waaaay excited for summer.
The chapters were a bit on the longer side and where most of the time I don't prefer that format, it actually worked well because all of the items that Sloane mentioned has a story of its own.
The last two chapters of the book was really nice and fulfilling for a contemporary so YAS!This is my second novel from Morgan Matson and she didn't leave me disappointed so I'll definitely check out the rest of her written works :) If you're looking for a light-hearted contemporary read with lots of adventure, character growth and a bit of romance, I highly recommend this!
4.75 starsLove love loved it!! I identified so much with Emily its kind of eerie. Her story was both fun and inspiring and left me wanting more. Like seriously where is the epilogue!!
4 starsI normally don't read novels like these, but I'm starting to realize I should more often!
And what's wrong with that?My favorite thing with this novel, without a doubt, is Frank and Emily's relationship.
I just felt the connection as soon as they met - even if they only took is as friendship.Another important thing to mention, is how well Matson developed Emily's character.
I also want to thank Matson for making sure the things Emily did weren't illegal or anything like that.
Just grab some friends, food, music, and have a good time!Overall, this was great.
Really, this whole story was just one easy and comforting read.
In the process of doing that, Emily makes new friends, falls in love, finds herself and figures out why her best friend left and where she went.This book isn't the most original story out there, in fact it kinda reminds me of Paper Towns (only I liked this ending way better!
It kind of reminded me of myself a bit and about how I used to be.I secretly dislike Sloane a bit though.
The person I dislike the most is Sam though, no worries!The story was a bit slow at times, but as soon as Frank started helping her on the list, things definitely picked up!
I love everything Morgan writes. Amy and Roger's Epic Detour made me smile uncontrollably, and Second Chance Summer made me cry uncontrollably. So, HELL YES, I'M READING THIS.
“I don’t think you have to do something so big to be brave.
And it’s the little things that are harder anyway.”3.5/5 starsSo this was a nice and easy going story, a little romance, a lot about friendship and some mystery.
The way Emily and Frank fall in love seemed very realistic and incredibly cute.
Also, only a tiny bit of melodrama.It was an easy read and it took me little time to get through, but it was nothing that made me get too emotional.
So if you are looking for something nice and light, this is your book.Find more of my books on Instagram
(Spoiler: I love lists too.) I just want to hug this book, maybe sob a little, but mostly LAUGH WITH JOY.
It was hit or miss with Since You've Been Gone for a while...but it settled into not trying to change Emily from being shy, but making her comfortable with her friends and her decisions.
Like at the beginning of the book Emily wears clothes she knows her friend Sloane would approve of...but by the end, she changes out of the dress and wears just a simple skirt and white singlet and feels more herself.
