https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10058.Flags_of_Our_Fathers
This is more than I can say for myself and it takes great fortitude to overcome a man's fears to face death, yet step onto that beach anyway.Bradley and Eastwood just don't get it.
God bless the heroes who died in the waters at Iwo Jima's beaches, the heroes who gave all on the putrid island, the heroes who fought and died or survived in every engagement of this war, and God bless the HEROES who raised the flags on Mount Suribachi.
On Veteran's Day and other such days when the mind wanders over the ultimate sacrifice made by brave men and women during our world's troubled times, for Americans there are few images more iconic than the picture of the flag raising on Iwo Jima during WWII.
Flags of Our Fathers was penned by James Bradley, the son of one of the men in that picture.
Certainly it is not all flag-waving victory for one and all involved.
Whenever you might read it, Bradley's book makes the reader feel as if everyday is Veteran's Day.
Flags of Our Fathers tells the amazing true story of Iwo Jima and The Photograph, by creating a fairly complete picture of the six boys/men in the photo.
It recounts basic ideas of their childhoods and their training as Marines, the battle itself, and the lives of those who survived (including Bradley's father) after the war.
Execution: mediocre."The middle of the book, which gives the details of the actual battle, was very compelling; I didn't want to put it down.
Full disclosure - I wasn't able to finish this book, so if you're one of those people who says you can't judge it til you finish, you don't need to read this.
After the first few chapters I started to feel like Bradley was trying to make a living off of his father's life.
That's when I checked the reviews on Goodreads and realized a lot of other people had the same impression.
Bradley makes it sound like he doesn't think they should really be celebrated, because they just happened to be there.
Like most people, I had no idea what the real context was for the famous photograph of soldiers raising the US flag at Iwo Jima.
Nor did I understand the military significance of that campaign, or the cost in lives it required (over 8000 US soldiers killed and almost 20,000 wounded; and over 20,000 Japanese killed).
This book is presented as the story of the 6 men who appear in the photo.
The first section gives their backgrounds and life stories, and dragged a bit, but made the rest much more personal (these were REAL PEOPLE involved in this struggle).
I don't often read historical nonfiction, but this book was superb; I was very moved by the countless acts of sacrifice made by the men who fought at Iwo Jima.This is a riveting narrative about the six young American flag raisers in the famed picture.
Author James Bradley is the son of corpsman John Bradley (one of the men in the photo) and it was only after his father's death when he began to piece together culminating events, as his father never talked about the war but for: "The heroes of Iwo Jima are the guys who didn't come back." The book includes background on each man, subsequently proceeding to their enlistment, training, fighting, and of course the photograph.
Only three of the six flag-raisers survived the battle.
This was a good book, the intent of the author was good, but I didn't like so many personal comments from him.
I don't care that he stared at the picture that this book is based around for hours at a time in a daze, or any other comments he made like that.
I think that the fact that he added those into the book took away from honoring those he was writing about.
His personal comments seemed more like a tribute to himself and his intellect than to those who fought in battle.
This is a biography written about the five men who raised the United States flag on Mount Suribachi on the Japanese island of Iwo Jima during the second World War. Bradley's father along with two other men Ira Hayes and Rene Gagnon survived the attack on the island and were sent home on orders from the United States government after a photograph of the scene had been sent home.
The unforgettable picture became a national phenomena and would forever change the lives of the three surviving soldiers.This book is a fascinating read as the author recreates the oral stories of these men from either direct conversation or other sources related to them.
The battle scenes described in this book allows the reader to become emotionally invested in the lives of these heroic men.
The one boy left out, Rene, was for some reason hated by the author who could barely bring himself to write anything at all about the boy and when he did detailed the varied flaws backed up by general quotes from unnamed "friends."Moreover, the continual claims that the US contributed nothing to winning the war in Europe (entirely done by Russia it seems--something that would no doubt surprise my grandfather who landed on Utah Beach at Normandy) and no other country contributed to the US winning the "American War" in the Pacific added to the author's never-ending claims that the Marines single handedly won this "American War" while everyone else just were just bumbling idiots who cost the Marines their lives was beyond annoying and moved back into the realm of disgusting.And my goodness, do a little research, man.
By showbiz scum who wash their dirty linen in public.(The latest local one with the initials "K.A.")But there was a time when REAL courage meant facing bullets, bombs, and staring death in the face, not for personal glory or just for the kick of it, but for freedom, liberty, and justice.
And saving other people's lives.The Allied men and women (Filipinos included) who served and fought in the Second World War were raised in the Great Depression and rose up against it.
Like the Allied men and women of the Second World War. To face evil and confront it, despite the odds.In memoriam.
And I don't even like non-fiction!This story chronicles first the lives of the six men raising their flag on Iwo Jima, the American climate during war time and why they enlisted.
Slowly trodding up the hill where we experience a seemingly unremarkable flag replacement that became a photograph which to this day "iconicizes" the valor, determination, courage and strength that is a US Marine.
After his death his sons found his Navy Cross and a box full of letters that led one son on a remarkable journey; chronicled here for us to experience alongside of him.A truly life changing story.
A must read for any WWII/history buff.
"Among the Americans serving on Iwo island, uncommon valor was a common virtue." -Chester NimitzA gritty, raw, important read. You will never look at the courage and bravery of our military again.
At times, he sounds a bit more sentimental than most audio book narrators, but when one remembers the words themselves were written by Bradley about his father's life, it becomes understandable.As a final note, I have been inspired by Flags to try to learn more about my late grandfather's Navy service in World War II.
The author follows the lives of the five Marines and one Navy corpsman who raise the second American flag on Mount Suribachi on Iwo Jima.
I also didn't know that the battle for Iwo Jima continued on after the photo for a month.I thought the author had a serious case of hero-worship for his father, one of the three flag-raisers that lived through the battle.
I think the author was a little too hard on the other survivors because their post-war lives weren't as great.
I also didn't like the author's conclusion that the flag-raisers weren't heroes.
He lets the reader in on the lives of Harlon Block, Mike Strank, Franklin Sousley, Ira Hayes, Rene Gagnon, and his father Jack “Doc” Bradley.
Mike Strank was born in Czechoslovakia and grew up to be one of the toughest members of the U.S. Marine Corps; he was looked up to by the younger flag raisers and called the “old man” of the group.
Franklin Sousley was born as a red-head in Hilltop, Kentucky to a family stricken by death, but he grew up to be a member of the Marine Corps: strong and courageous.
It was a non-fiction book of the flag raising on Iwo Jima.
The author's father was one of the men who were there that day and helped raise the flag.
His father survived what was described as a month long massacre.I found this book thought provoking.
But those who actually survived this particular 'skirmish' (only about 20 percent survived) had a hard time recovering from the things they witnessed and didn't like the term "hero" applied to them just because they were the few who lived to walk off that island.
In their minds, the heroes were the fallen soldiers.
Enlightening and powerful, a patriotic humbling honor to read about the lives of the six men who raised the flag at Iwo Jima....making them not just memorialized icons, but brothers and sons, a friend, a high school graduate, a mill worker, an athlete...mortal brave men who answered freedom's call to protect and serve.My one negative observation: the author, in my opinion, interjected too much of himself - his thoughts, feelings, subjectivity - into the book, which seemed a little spotlight-off-putting vainglorious.
Easily one of the most moving and memorable books I have ever read. I know that I've said that I don't get emotional over the books that I read, but Flags of Our Fathers is a definite exception. The author has a personal connection to the subject, and his own emotion over the true story of his father comes through wonderfully. It's as much about history as it is about family. On a sour note, do not ever watch the movie. EVER! It's as awful as the book is wonderful.
This is such a great book. It gives the background of not only the people from one of the most famous American photographs, but also of situations surrounding it. I loved this book and am so thankful that I read it. I recommend it to all.
I really enjoyed this book. I found it both compelling and tragic. I liked learning about a part of history i'd never before read about, the war in the Pacific, Iwo Jima and World War II. I also loved reading about the personal stories of the men and their families.
James Bradley’s Flags of Our Fathers tells the story of the six men who raised the American flag on the island of Iwo Jima after giving the Japanese a long, brutal fight to win control over the small island.
The Japanese could hit any part of the Iwo Jima with artillery from Suribachi, which is why the Americans needed to conquer it.
Just like a baby being born, the picture of the flag raising will never be forgotten by the United States military nor by the world.
This was pretty enthralling story telling about the men in the famous flag raising picture from Iwo Jima (one of whom was the author's father {well, maybe...
Bradley starts small by telling of the histories of these boys; a Czech immigrant who wanted to fight Nazis, a Seventh Day Adventist Texan who disappointed his devout mother by enlisting, a proud Kentucky hillbilly, a New England millworker, a Wisconsin boy who dreams of having a funeral home, and a Native American who isn't a citizen of his native America.
Flags of our Father is a war book authored by James Bradley with Ron Powers.
The book is about 6 men who raised the flag on Iwo Jima.
The majority of the book is placed on the island of Iwo Jima.
The theme of this book is that the people who died are the real heroes and in the book John Bradley says "The men who didn't come off that island out the real heroes." I would recommend this book to my classmates because it is a very interesting book filled with good action.
This book haunted me for weeks afterward, waking me in the middle of the night wondering would I have been able to do what these men did on Iwo Jima.
"Hero. In that misunderstood and corrupted word, I think, lay the final reason for John Bradley's silence. Today the word 'hero' has been diminished, confused with 'celebrity'. But in my father's generation the word meant something."This book is worth the read.
Flags of Our Fathers uses this image to explain what really happened on Iwo Jima, the lives that were lost, the sacrifices made, the horror endured in the name of war.
Bradley wrote a book not only about the history of his father but about the many Marines and Navy sailors who fought and died on Iwo Jima.
I was less than a hundred pages from finishing this book when I came across an article stating that James Bradley was not sure if his father was actually in the The Photograph on the top of Mount Suribachi.
The devastating affect of war was demonstrated in undeniable violence.
The raising of the flag on Iwo Jima became the symbol of the Marine Corp and American might that stands today.
Mistakes were made, no doubt.
Embellishments occurred as it always does in war.
But, for those who have taken up arms on a battlefield and lived to remember, there is no mistaking the need for hope and a belief we could win.
Nobody who fights for their nation and each other gives a damn who raised the flag.
It's that the flag was raised and that meant their sacrifice was worth it.
Flags of Our Fathers tells the story of Jack Bradley and the five other men who were pictured raising the American flag on the top of Mt. Suribachi on Iwo Jima in the iconic picture from WWII.
I listened to the audio version of the book, which is also narrated well by James Bradley.Before reading this book I had numerous misconceptions about the famous flag raising at Iwo Jima and the battle that took place on that island.
I have read many books about WWII, but this one tells the history in a very engaging way, through the stories of the men who were a part of the famous Iwo Jima flag raising picture that captured the hearts of Americans.
They didn't see anything that they did as heroism, so to be celebrated for being in that photo singled them out from the other Marines they served along side of in that same battle was excessive to them.
