https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/385742.Gregor_and_the_Prophecy_of_Bane
It is told in third person.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه جولای سال 2013 میلادیعنوان: تاریخ اعماق زمین - کتاب 2 - گریگور و پیشگویی بین؛ نویسنده: سوزان کالینز؛ مترجم: عاطفه احمدی؛ تهران، ویدا، چاپ اول و دوم 1392؛ در 242 ص؛ شابک: 9786002910196؛ موضوع: داستانهای علمی تخیلی از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 مگریگور با خودش عهد بسته بود که دیگر هیچگاه به دنیای زیرزمینی بازنگردد؛ همان دنیای عجیب و غریبی که در زیر شهر نیویورک قرار داشت، اما این‌بار هم زیرزمینی‌ها برای یک پیشگویی دیگر درباره ی یک موش صحرایی سفید و خطرناک به اسم بِین به کمک او نیاز دارند.
Why is NO ONE talking about this series?!?!? It's not quite as "adult" as the Hunger Games trilogy but I think that this series is so so so much better. You follow a boy and his sister as they fight rats in the Underland. This book actually had me on the edge of my seat towards the end. AND it left off on a cliffhanger so I'm glad that when I found this book I got the next one in the series as well.
Gregor, O Sobreterrestre“Gregor, A Segunda Profecia” (A Profecia de Bane) é o segundo de uma série de cinco livros escritos por Suzanne Collins, actualmente reconhecida a nível mundial devido a outra personagem: Katniss Everdeen (”Hunger Games, Os Jogos da Fome).Escrito poucos anos antes da trilogia de Everdeen, Gregor partilha alguns traços da escrita apresentada com a menina do Distrito 12, sendo a linguagem simples e acessível, marcadamente para um público jovem-adulto, a sua característica mais óbvia.Continuação da inocênciaGregor deve ser lido tendo sempre em mente o seu publico alvo: é inocente e puro.
Hamam böceklerinin, yarasaların, örümceklerin ve sıçanların dünyasına davetlisiniz, tabii tiksinmezseniz.Yeraltının tehlikeli dünyasına -yanlış hesap yapmışım- dört buçuk yıl önce giriş yapmıştım ama devamını getirmem gereğinden fazla uzun sürdü. Bu uzun araya rağmen hiçbir ayrıntıyı unutmadığım için okumakta ve adapte olmakta hiç sıkıntı çekmedim.Kategori olarak her ne kadar çocuk gözüküyor olsa da yetişkinlerinde severek okuyabileceği bir seri olduğunu düşünüyorum. Macera kitaplarını seven ilkokul öğrencilerine de şiddetle tavsiye ederim. Dili kolay ve anlaşılır olduğundan eğlenerek okurlar bence.
These books are just freaking awesome! Also, the story finished on Christmas Eve and I finished it on Christmas Eve, nice little coincidence :D
Die Unterland-Chroniken sind mir mit diesem zweiten Band schon etwas ans Herz gewachsen.
Ich habe diesmal speziell auf die Sprache geachtet und muss sagen, dass sie wirklich nicht primitiv ist.
Meist ist es klar und eindeutig beschrieben, die Dialoge haben sogar etwas Erhabenes und die Fremdwörter wie hypnotisch oder moralisierend, tauchen nicht in einer Häufigkeit aus, dass sie Erstleser schrecken müssten.
Gregor sieht seine alten Bekannten aus dem ersten Band wieder als in der Unterwelt abtaucht, in die seine Schwester entführt wird.
Der Handlungsablauf ähnelt dem Vorgängerband schon etwas, aber die Zielgruppe sehnt sich ja auch nach einer gewissen Beständigkeit.
Gregor hat ja im ersten Band sein Abenteuer gut überstanden, aber natürlich warten auf ihn im Unterland neue Herausforderungen - und er muss sich ihnen stellen, denn das Leben seiner kleinen Schwester Boots steht auf dem Spiel!
Zum Glück hat er Hilfe durch die etwas hartnäckige Bekanntschaft mit ihrer Nachbarin Mrs Cormaci; die zwar nur eine kleine Rolle hat, aber dennoch große Auswirkungen, ich mag sie :)Gregor hat eigentlich gar keine Lust, sich wieder für das Unterland auf gefährliche Wege zu begeben, aber um seine Schwester zu retten tut er natürlich alles, was er kann.
Okay I can't really be coherent right now but.
This is just so good.Just like the first book, this got me so full of emotion by the end of the book.I don't know what takes me this long to read this, but I regret it..
I regret all my time being spent on books that isn't even half as good as this.
I can't do a full review without spoiling anything right now, so I'll be back and edit this later.
Now I really need to get into the next book to know what would happen to the pup.
Gemeinsam mit seinen Mitstreitern macht er sich auf die Suche nach ihm und muss dabei ein tödliches Abenteuer nach dem anderen bestehen ...Bereits im ersten Teil der Gregor-Saga hat Suzanne Collins unter Beweis gestellt, dass sie mit Die Tribute von Panem nicht ihre einzige gute Reihe verfasst hat.
Doch wo man schon dort mit einigen brutalen Bildern konfrontiert wird, setzt die Autorin hier nochmal einen drauf und lässt den Leser ganz und gar nicht mit dem Gefühl eines Buches zurück, dass ab 10 bis 12 Jahren empfohlen wird.Sicherlich gibt es Bücher, in denen Gewalt und Brutalität expliziter dargestellt wird.
I wish I knew a 10-12 year old boy I could recommend this series to.
The story line is great.
Our hero Gregor who is probably about 12 discovers an underground world filled with pale humans who haven't seen the light of day in forever, along with lots of giant rodents, roaches and bats.
This is Book #2 in a series so you know the hero survives.
He's flawed and his family life is far from perfect.
Love her interactions with Temp the roach.
(These books were written beforeThe Hunger Gameswhere Collins created a far more layered and dangerous world.)
"She said if you don't stop your incessant babble, the big rat sitting in the boat next to you will rip your head off." Wow. My emotions.The first time I read this book, it was on audio because it was always checked out from my local library.
And I distinctly remember lying on my bed, with my portable CD player next to me, listening to the end of this book with tears in my eyes.
And good grief I just love these characters.This book is where it all gets real.
Suzanne Collins este nemiloasă, atât cu personajele, cât și cu cititorii ei. La prima vedere, „Cronici din Subpământ” pare o serie destinată copiilor, însă, după a doua profeție, nu cred că voi mai afirma vreodată așa ceva. E o serie spectaculoasă și dramatică, din care nu lipsesc înfruntările pe viață și pe moarte, trădările, răzbunările și crimele. Nimeni nu este în siguranță, iar finalul este nedrept. Uggggghhhh!În continuare, vreau să fac legământ cu Ares și să am un liliac uriaș drept prieten.
In this series, since it is for children she talks about war in a more smoother way than she does in the Hunger Games.
Exactly like in the Hunger Games, Collins uses her characters and what happens to them as parallels to historical events and personalities.
Younger audiences may not understand the parallels but an adult sees easily that the war between rats, bats and all the other mesmerizing creatures of the Underland is used in order to talk about Nazism and World War. The similarities with the Hunger Games however do not end there.
DEBO ADVERTIR QUE ESTA SAGA ES ADICTIVA, SUZANNE COLLINS, ES UNA EXTRAORDINARIA CREADORA DE HISTORIAS QUE TE LLEVAN DE LA MANO, PARA MARAVILLARTE Y DESTROZARTE.SUZANNE COLLINS, TE LLEVA A LA GLORIA A LA DESTRUCCIÓN EN UN SÓLO CAPITULO.
En este tomo hay una enfrentamiento marino, que te va a dejar sin aliento, ya que la mayor parte de la trama se desarrolla en el agua.3.
De nuevo Collins, te hace que te encariñes con los personajes para matarlos, ESTOY LLORANDO.4.
6. Amistad, valor familiar, el miedo hacer lo incorrecto, el poder de la maternidad y los juicios de valor, son temas que podrás conocer en este tomo.
It has been a few months since Gregor and Boots traveled to the Underland to save their father and finish the last prophecy.
When Boots is kidnapped, Gregor must travel back to the Underland and undertake a quest of a new prophecy where he must kill the bane that threatens to destroy all.
Can he accomplish this task?
Read this and find out for yourself.This was a pretty good read.
I look forward to continue this series with Book 3 in the future.
Check out this book and the rest of the Gregor series at your local library and wherever books are sold.
Dou os meus sinceros parabéns à Editorial Presença pela capa fantástica deste livro, bem como por todo o trabalho de edição realizado no seu interior. A capa é simplesmente maravilhosa e sei por experiência própria que tem um impacto positivo em quem a vê. Além disso, agradeço imenso pelo envio deste livro para opinião. Foi mais uma leitura absolutamente deliciosa. A nossa querida Suzanne Collins não desilude neste segundo livro das Crónicas da Subterra, mas confesso que não gostei tanto como d
Como já devem saber, esta é uma saga infantojuvenil e, por isso, está escrita de forma muito simples.
Ao ler este já contava com o que me esperava e, talvez por isso, não me surpreendeu ou comoveu como o anterior.
A história deste livro começa por nos mostrar como é que estão as nossas personagens do livro anterior e que, ao contrário do que seria suposto, não se encontram muito bem.
Ao contrário do anterior, este livro deixa imensas pontas soltas que nos fazem querer ler a continuação para saber o que virá a seguir, o que é um ponto positivo.
The evening seemed to flash past me.Gregor thought getting his dad home would change everything for the better but his dad is suffering from a strange Underland illness and can barely walk round their tiny apartment, they are struggling to pay the bills and running out of food.
Turns out there is another prophecy once more believed to be about him, he must save the Underlanders once more and fight off the monster that is the 'Bane'.Being book 2 I feel like I know Gregor better and can understand his quirks and opinions and I continue to like him as a character and he is definitely developing into a promising hero.
Despite Gregor’s return and the sealing of the laundry grate, the past adventures of Overland still hangs over the family.
In this second book, we have some of the old characters who survived the trip like Ares, Luxa and her bat Aurora, Vikus and Solovet and even Ripred.
While Gregor’s adventure in this book was fun, I really found the secondary character stories more interesting.
This second book has plenty of adventure and suspense, but it seemed like the focus was with dealing and overcoming the losses and emotions that occurred during the first adventure.

Another great book in this series.Read to my son who is enjoying it.Better than the first, in my opinion.
AAAAaaaa! Dajcie mi trzeci toooom! :D
I love this series so freaking much.
He makes mistakes and has to correct his behavior/actions so many times throughout the book, and he's such a better character for it.
I don't think I could ever get over how incredible it is that challenging ideas and difficult questions are presented in this book in understandable ways.
I liked Howard, for example, but I feel like I should know more about him.Favorite Quote“'We would have had no choice if the venom spread further, but Howard was able to suck it from the wounds,' said Mareth.
I can’t say thank you?'"Final ThoughtsWhy has everyone not read these books???
Είναι γρήγορο και περιπετειώδης βιβλίο.
Gregor and the Prophecy of Bane was an engaging read and served more as a gradual process of revelations to pave the way for the following three books in the series. It was long enough to adequately flesh out its characters and the atmosphere in the Underland – this along with the emphasized significance of the plot consistently impressed me – I liked it!___________________________________ WHAT I LIKED + All of the familiar tropes from the middle-grade/fantasy genres are piled up in this book
I also enjoyed how in the midst of all this sodden chaos, Suzanne Collins began to unveil the dark, oppressive and painful reality of the Underland world ― which in the end, in light of its clever cliffhanger, leaves you begging for more.
I should mention that the story begins to pick up a quarter into the book!- The Underland Chronicles has a huge array of characters – witty animal protagonists (rats, cockroaches, moths, fireflies, spiders, bats, you name it!), mythical creatures and beings, even an adorable two-year-old toddler who plays a somewhat pivotal role.
- How Suzanne Collins managed to create a world in the underground sewers of New York is beyond me.
In Gregor and the Prophecy of Bane by Suzanne Collins, Gregor hoped to never go back to the Underland and under his moms watchful eye he probably couldn't. When Boots suddenly disappears into one of the passage ways leading to the Underland Gregor has no choice, but to follow. In this follow up in the Underland Gregor faces the second of Bartholomew Sandwich's prophecies. I would suggest this book to anyone who liked the Hunger Games, Percy Jackson, or Harry Potter.
I am really enjoying this series! Can’t wait to read the next one.
И всичко това - на фона на пророчеството за Бейн, което завършва със зловещи думи, предричащи смъртта на невръстно създание, която ще унищожи сърцето на "воина".
Мисля, че именно това бяха двата момента, след които спрях да възприемам тази поредица като детска: моментът, в който той разбра, че трябва да убие Бейн, и момента, в който разтълкува за себе си тези редове от пророчеството.
И именно тогава пророчеството приема нов смисъл - "бебето" е невръстният Бейн, а "смъртта на сърцето" е това, което ще се случи на този, който вдигне ръка да убие невръстно създание.
Ed era quasi certo che Ares fosse giunto alla stessa conclusione.Boots sparisce nel nulla in un parco ma lui trova subito un'enorme zampa di scarafaggio a terra perché un cane ci stava giocando.
Ora, come ha fatto il padrone del cane a non chiedersi cosa fosse quell'enorme coso?
Perché ovviamente Gregor è troppo buono e puro,non potrebbe accettare di venire pagato alla luce del sole per quello che ha fatto.Poi forse sono soltanto io, ma avete patito la fame fino al giorno prima,vi sembra il caso di mettervi a comprare orecchini come regalo di natale?
След като Грегор изпълни Сивото пророчество и си мислеше, че никога повече няма да се върне в Подземната страна, се оказа, че го чака ново предизвикателство - Гибелното пророчество.Грегор и две годишната му сестричка отново са в Подземната страна и се готвят да поемат напът, за да търсят зловещ бял плъх, наричан Гибелния.Ще летят, ще се промъкват през тунели и ще плават по Водния път - като през цялото време няма да скучаят и за миг.
I FINISHED THIS BOOK A WEEK AGO AND IM READIN A NEW BOOK ALMOST DONE.I REALLY LIKE THIS BOOK.ONE REASON WHY I Really LIKE THIS BOOK IS WHEN GREGOR AND ARES WENT TO GO KILL THE BANE.THE BANE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE A HUGE WHITE RAT BUT INSTEAD IT WAS A TINY RAT.THE SECOND THING WHY I LIKED THIS BOOK WHEN GREGOR,TEMP,BOOTS,ARES AND HENRY WENT TO SAVE HIS FATHER.GREGORS FATHER WAS LOCK IN PRISON FOR 2 YEARS BY HUGE RATS.THIS ON PAGE 105.
ALSO YOU MIGHT LIKE THIS BOOK IF YOU HAVE BIG PET.I SAY THIS BECAUSE IN THE BOOK GREGOR THE OVERLANDER THERE ARE HUGE PETS AND ANIMALS.THERE ARE HUGE BATS,COCKROACHES, RATS, SPIDERS, FIREFLY'S, LIVE FLOWERS AND MORE.ANOTHER THING WHY I THINK YOU MIGHT LIKE THIS BOOK BECAUSE YOU LIKE TO MEET NEW PEOPLE.
