https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/722236.False_Dawn
Read each line carefully.
You must see the humor!I do not want to tell you what it is about; you might just as well read the story.
It is that short.I will only say that I like the mix of characters, some good and some bad, those who are nasty and those who are sweet.
Yet Wharton never falls into the trap of characters being two dimensional.
This is a clever commentary on the appreciation of art, set in the Gilded Age of New York City.Wharton is truly talented in her ability to depict people and places and behavior.
A neatly turned brief gem, sadly concluded. Derek Jacobi interprets perfectly on the audio.
A lovely short story which encapsulates Wharton's style: When a New York millionaire father sends his son to Europe to "form his own taste in art," they both know he doesn't really mean it.
After all, the father made a list and provided the funds for the son to buy very specific pieces for his collection, painted only by the artists who were "approved" by American high society at the time.
Edith Wharton found this beautiful way to criticize New York society (as she always did in her stories) while involving a beautiful, new art trend.
Why do I always open myself up to Wharton’s sad endings?
A good book but I read it after "The House of Mirth," which was wonderful albeit tragic. Edith Wharton was a wonderful writer and so my rating is only in comparison to her writing.
This story, which makes a reference or two to Poe, also is too contemporary to Hawthorne, Emerson, and Thoreau, predates Dickinson and Whitman, and so there’s a kind of dramatic irony about the above anxiety.The story itself is about a rich American father who sends his son abroad to take hold of the world and learn about the wonders of Europe and bring home some old masterpieces to use as the cornerstone of new gallery in their name.
the scion of an upper-class family of Old New York is sent on the Grand Tour with the specific charge of returning home with a notable art collection, to include in particular a Raphael.
but the young man makes the acquaintance of some traveling pre-Raphaelites and, under their tutelage and influence, acquires a very unfashionable--but magnificent--collection of Italian medieval artworks.
upon his return home his father is so enraged by his son's presumption that he disinherits the young man, and the collection goes into obscurity, only to be appreciated after the protagonist's death.
Interesting little novella. Wharton cuts to the core of hypocrisy like a surgeon.
A lesser favorite from Edith Wharton still goes on my favorites list.
This one is about Lewis, who might be described today as Metro Sexual, and his father, an overbearing class conscious windbag.
Father bestows his life savings on his only son, instructing him to go to Europe and invest in "a gallery of heirlooms" that will bring glory and honor to the family name.
Most desirable is a Raphael, but they can hardly aspire to this—some "lesser pieces" will suffice.
He enthusiastically spends his fortune and brings shame to the family.
There are only three or four American novelists who can be thought of as 'major' - and Edith Wharton is one." --Gore Vidal One of my goals is to read all her books.This audio novella is a gem.
The force and precision of Wharton's language are brought vividly to life by Jacobi, an actor whose beautiful voice you recognize only for an instant before you both submerge in the story.
Wharton doesn't waste a word, or even a pause, and I had to hear the first cassette twice before I understood exactly who was doing what to whom.

This short novella of Wharton’s is quite entertaining and amazingly manages to incorporate a number of intriguing themes. The story plays with art and the fickleness of trends in the art market. The commentary is quite interesting. I loved all of the little cameo appearances of famous personages, such as John Ruskin and Rossetti. They’re incorporated subtly and don’t hinder the progression of the text. The irony of the ending is quite wonderful. It was like watching an episode of Antiques Road Show.
Audiobook..................A lovely novella by Edith Wharton about what happens when a person sees the dawn of a new era before everyone else. In this case, the foreseer is a young man discovering the artwork of some of the Italian masters of religious art in the late 1800s. The story is moving because of the man's passion and deep belief in the art, along with the sacrifices he makes waiting for the "one man" to come along who will "unerstand" his collection.
All of the fun of Edith Wharton in a very tidy little novella. Lewis Raycie goes on his Grand Tour with one mission: to acquire art for his family's gallery. But when Raycie returns with unconventional choices, chaos ensues. The only reason I award False Dawn only four stars is that it lacks the emotional depth that feature in many of Wharton's other works. For readers looking for a quick Wharton fix, I'd suggest Summer or Ethan Frome, instead.
Con su estilo habitual, Edith Wharton nos deleita con una historia sencilla pero bien tramada, con unos buenos personajes que simbolizan posiciones ideológicas ante la vida y ante los cambios en la mentalidad, símbolo del cambio de los tiempos. Y todo aderezado con el acostumbrado tono irónico que caracteriza sus obras.(Read 2/01/2016)
A very quick read and a slender novel for this author. Part of her ,40's series (1840's) about old New York and gradual changes. The main character in the book goes on a Grand Tour and has his eyes opened and buys "new paintings" as opposed to those his father wanted to own. This effects his whole life---and generations to come.
Very nicely written, as most other works by Ms Wharton; great descriptions of people's appearances with vivid similies and metaphors. Sadly humorous and ironic. The leading theme, to me, is an unappreciated genius.
Classy, cold, cruel tale.
A little gem of a book. Sadly funny.
Edith Wharton does not write happy books. :/ This one was… okay. And less dreadfully unhappy than her better ones. Lalala!
