https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17465453-the-signature-of-all-things
I'm on page 120 of 512 of The Signature of All Things:I was sceptical.
Eat Pray Love was so indulgent and I have as little interest in botany as I do in Indian ashrams.
Surprisingly however The signature of All things has so far been delightful.19/10/13 I have to revise my initial glowing review.
Although The Signature of all Things started with much promise, it descended into a pit of humdrum with no view of escape.I cannot fault Gilbert's writing.
But there's just so much botany & sexual frustration i can sift through before my interest wanes and boredom takes over.
There were many times during my reading when I felt Gilbert nailed the intersection for which she was aiming: tension between science and the divine; strong heroine journey; historical development of science in the 1800s-- particularly women in botany; love triangles; father/mother/sister complexes; writing style born of Dickens-Austen-Alcott; and, a plethora of travel and transformation metaphors (Gilbert's evolution from "Eat, Pray, Love" is evident on at least half the book's 500 pages).
Otherwise, I very much enjoyed how connected I felt to Elizabeth Gilbert's creative process and am inspired to tackle writing a historical fiction novel of my own!
This book has some of the most beautiful writing I've read in a long time.
I especially loved the way plants and flowers were described ...
I don't remember off hand what 'did' win the Pulitzer that year...Maybe one of my friends would love to tell me.
I'm so in aw and in love with this book.
( I was down for 2 with those books)....But "The Signature of All Things", had everything: family, friends, plants & flowers, mosses, ( science and nature), poetic writing, Philosophy, conviction, and love.
Thank you to all those who read this book before me...
Its nearly 600 pages long, its narrative force relies on a single character, a plain almost loveless woman whose passion is, of all things, mosses and, though it’s very well written, there probably isn’t a single sentence of memorable virtuoso prose in the entire book.
And yet…Elizabeth Gilbert doesn’t possess the rarefied brilliance of Hilary Mantel as a prose stylist but The Signature of all Things shares lots of similarities with Wolf Hall and Bring Up the Bodies - one complex and beguiling character is called upon to personify an entire age, an age of upheaval.
Alma Whitaker, a classic Daddy’s Girl, is a brilliant dramatization of longing and aspiration against hostile odds.
Especially female longing and aspiration.
Loved it- that girl can write her way out of a paperbag and as someone who loves plants and flowers-- well-- its my kinda book
Elizabeth Gilbert is a talented writer, but at times I felt like I was studying for my final university exam on mosses (you will just have to read the book to understand this).I really felt sad at times for the protagonist.
Yet, in the end, there was some resolution to her needs and wants, and it all came full circle.I really do believe the questions that come up near the end of this novel would be excellent fodder for some lively book club discussion.
I know I felt myself wavering on the cusp of both sides, and will wrestle with that question for some time.I recommend this book, but do be aware that the middle is awfully tedious reading at times.
Through characters grow into their own (and some of Gilbert's descriptions remain entertaining, in particular the foreign language flourishes (with Dutch being the highlight)), the plot as a whole slows down, leaving many questions unanswered until the very very end of the book, testing the reader's patience (there were many times where half way through the journey of reading the book I wanted to put it down or just skip to the end to figure out what she was doing; I persevered through it mostly because I'm an ardent Liz Gilbert fan and I'd like to believe I'm "maturing" as a reader, but I can easily see other people abandoning the novel altogether for the effort and patience it demands).A couple of elements in the narrative come across as highly contrived and inorganic, and though there are some beautiful moments of tenderness and revelation (most of which revolve, directly or indirectly, around Prudence - the gesture of the nightgown and the plot twist towards the end courtesy a fabulously-named Hanneke de Groot), there is this sense of the rewards coming in too little, too late.
A feeling of detachment pervaded every scene, almost as if the author had no grasp of her character's inner lives, even as she reported it in stilted and wooden detail.
Just read a few lines of her attempt at recreating dialogue and you'll see what I mean.
But while I'm sure that there were other 19th Century biologists whose research anticipated Darwin's work, Gilbert's attempt to recreate the manuscript of one such biologist fell very short of the mark.I'm glad it's over, and like the 3,000 women (no men) who have read and rated this book, I'm gonna sign off and go check out my quim.
It is a both beautiful and intermittently appalling story of humanity and nature.The book begins with British ex-pat Henry Whittaker, a boy of humble origins, who, by the time he is an adult in the 19th century, turns himself into a captain of industry in the botanical and pharmaceutical industry, particularly quinine.
The title of the book refers that all life contains a divine code or print, and was put forth by a 16th century German cobbler and early botanist, Jacob Boehme, one rejected by the Whittakers, for the most part, as medieval nonsense.
I knew I was going to like this book by its very first page, which begins thusly:Alma Whittaker, born with the century, slid into our world on the fifth of January, 1800.
It's a birth-to-death story: We watch Alma grow up, we learn how her father became one of the wealthiest men in Pennsylvania, we see Alma develop a passion for botany and scholarship, we witness her loves and her broken hearts, we watch her care for her parents as they get older, and finally, we get to go on an amazing journey with her to the other side of the world.The richness of the world that Gilbert recreated here is amazing.
I read it based on an interview I saw with Liz Gilbert, where she talked about her inspiration for the story (a family heirloom book from the late 1700's detailing the voyages of Captain Cook), and because I think Gilbert is an amazing writer, whose talent and scope is far beyond the pigeon-holing she's garnered from Eat, Pray, Love (which I also loved).
It's far, far too good to give a detailed review with many specifics, I wouldn't want to spoil the pleasure of reading it for oneself...in fact, this is one of the books that makes you wax rhapsodic (at least inside your own head) about the pleasures of being a reader.
I was actually enjoying this and then at 49% a spinster has a spontaneous orgasm from holding hands with a dude in a closet.2.
(ten percent later) Oh wait, and now he's a closeted gay!
So many thoughts, so little time - so....Elizabeth Gilbert, author of that turnip of a book – Eat, Pray, Love, has written an absolute peach of a big, sprawling novel in The Signature of All Things. Luscious, ambitious, lyrical, satisfying; nothing in this novel will fail to keep you spellbound. I could wax lyrically all day about this book. Thank-you to Sally Howes for recommending this to me. Most Highly Recommended. 5★
I listened to it, and it was read very well, but I couldn't skim parts that I may have if I was reading it, which made it that much more torturous.There were certainly moments of brilliance, and it was obvious that Gilbert put a lot of time and research into the novel, but there was too much detail, about too many subjects, which made it incredibly drawn out and tedious.
While I was not expecting Eat, Pray, Love, it did make me realize that the thing I love most about Elizabeth Gilbert, is HER voice, not the voice of a 19th century Bryologist, who I did not find very likeable or believable.I hope her next novel has a more contemporary voice.
But her parents made sure that her life would be different.Since women, at the time, were associated with a love of flowers, botany was the only science in which women were allowed to participate, although in a limited way, since men were quick to feel threatened by female intellectuals.
The female botanists of the time were all fabulously rich, had male family members who were established in science, and tended to be childless.Before she was 5 years old, Alma could speak 5 living, and two dead languages.
She finds comfort in living on “Moss Time.” As a former biologist, I loved her sense of wonder and dedication to study of hidden complexities behind living forms:You see, I have never felt the need to invent a world beyond this world, for this world has always seemed large and beautiful enough for me.
I have wondered why it is not large and beautiful enough for others — why they must dream up new and marvelous spheres, or long to live elsewhere, beyond this dominion ...
Utterly divine, but totally different than the memoir.If you did not love “Eat, Pray, Love” and if you love a big juicy interesting read, you will love this one, because Elizabeth Gilbert, when released from neurotic navel-gazing, is a smashing writer with brilliant insights I hated to say farewell to the protagonist, Alma Whittaker.
Alma takes control of many things, including her libidinous passions, and like so many true intellectuals, she is curious and wise about the ways of the world, in this case the plant world, but often completely ignorant of personalities and penchants.
It's a book about a philosophy of how to live - stubborn, fighting, lucky, like the things in nature that endure the resistance of outward forces - or yielding, believing, conceding, in mystery.
The philosophy and the life a mirror of pursuit.Many images will stay in my mind from it.
If we can live a life the burns bright in some way, we must be lucky.
It will stay with me because from the first sentences, I felt I could tell it was written with deep conviction and hope - a hope to connect to readers, I think, like me.
This was my first time reading Elizabeth Gilbert—I’m one of the six people in the universe who didn’t read “Eat, Pray, Love”—and I’m glad I didn’t approach this novel with any preconceived ideas.
“The Signature of All Things” is a lovely novel, beautifully written with great scope and rich characters.The novel is full of small delights of writing.
Money, Gilbert writes, follows Alma’s father around “like a small, excited dog.” The nineteenth century enchantment with science and the natural world is expressed fully and with the sense of wonder Alma and her family felt.
“The Signature of All Things” is a bracing homage to the many natures of genius and the inevitable progress of ideas, in a world that reveals its best truths to the uncommonly patient minds."Barbara Kingsolver in the New York Times Book ReviewWhat a surprising and thrilling ride this was.
Elizabeth Gilbert has done what so many writers must dream of doing: to write a book exclusively for oneself, casting away all expectations, brushing away the fear of not fitting in the 21st literary canon, squashing self-doubt and ignoring the siren song of more "modern" and "post-modern" prose.
"Lastly, she knew one other thing, and this was the most important realization of all: she knew that the world was plainly divided into those who fought an unrelenting battle to live, and those who surrendered and died. This was a simple fact."  This was a delightful audio book to listen to! At a length of 21 hours and 43 minutes, it seemed like a daunting book to tackle prior to investing in my wireless noise canceling headphones. It's made audio books a delight once again. Now I can listen an
This was a delightful audio book to listen to!
It's made audio books a delight once again.
In fact, I'm not sure that I followed where it was headed at all times.No doubt Alma's advancements in her specialized field of plant life is what enchanted me most.
I guess instead of tying up all the loose ends and relationships in Alma's life with her theory, it only left more questions in my mind.I guess I mostly wondered what the point of it all was?
Alma lead an extraordinary life, but was it extraordinary because of her contributions to science or her theory?
I started out enjoying this book very much and I was glad because I had been avoiding reading it for a while due to the fact that I disliked Eat, Pray, Love so much.The Signature of All Things is a very different kind of book however and it is mostly interesting, well,written and populated with intriguing characters.
Sadly though it is too long and the last section just meanders along without direction.
So there was good and there was not so good which makes me think I will go straight down the middle and give it three stars:)
Alma Whittaker is a strong, interesting, and vulnerable character whose journey in life is so layered that I found myself rushing to get back to the book and I was deeply saddened when I finished.
Elizabeth Gilbert has woven together astonishing facts about horticulture, history of 19th century America, spirituality, ideas on evolution, all with a a group of strong, interesting characters.
This is a longer book (500+ pages) and I always wonder if I'll lose interest in longer books, but she was able, for me, to propel me and the story forward leading to a lovely ending.
I have to chuckle because I kept thinking that this book was Alma's Eat, Pray, Love!
Disappointing after reading so many glowing reviews.
The book started very strong and probably would have been a lot more interesting if we'd kept just following Henry.
His daughter,Alma, is an ok character.
I didn't dislike her.
It was more that I felt detached and didn't really care.
And, while I read plenty of romance novels, I was actually disappointed when Alma's sexuality became such a big deal in the book.
I was really put off by Alma touching the "spongy petals" of her "quim" and all that time in the binding closet.
I get that she was a sexually frustrated, unattractive woman.
I loved how Gilbert pins down these three very different characters through pithy (and sometimes appropriately botanical) descriptions: “Prudence’s nose was a little blossom; Alma’s was a growing yam,” while Retta is “a perfect little basin of foolishness and distraction.”Gilbert also captures the delight of scientific discovery and the fecundity of nature in a couple of lush passages that are worth quoting in full:(Looking at mosses on boulders) Alma put the magnifying lens to her eye and looked again.
This was a really interesting one for me to be reading at the same time as the Gilbert novel.
His only daughter is Alma, equipped with an exacting nature and brilliant mind herself, she finds a virtual playground of plant and animal life on the family estate in which to learn and thus becomes a scientist in her own measure.This story is Alma's, although their are other interesting characters in the background, the story belongs to her.
Maybe it was because I have been sick this past week, but I was in the mood for a family generational novel, and found this book both interesting and comforting.
It helps if the reader likes botany, history and introspective novels.
When I was about one third through this book, I realized two things: One, that I enjoy reading to learn something, even something small, that I didn't know before.
This book was not educational nor entertaining and nothing about it was exceptional.
I read this book much like I watch an episode of a long-standing soap opera on TV: With no interest in what happens next or emotional connect to any of the characters, but solely because I didn't feel like getting up to change the channel.
If you want to go on a great adventure, not of the body but of the soul, take Alma's hand and let her lead you through the winding, witty, whimsical, wondrous pages of THE SIGNATURE OF ALL THINGS.The novel begins with Henry Whittaker's "rags to riches by way of hard work, cunning, and ruthlessness" story.
Who would take this giant female creature, who stood above six feet tall, who was overly stuffed with learning, and who had hair in the color and shape of a rooster's comb?" The world would certainly have to admit, though, that even at a young age, Alma Whittaker is a very promising botanist, despite the fact that: "In the scientific world of the day, there was still a strict division between 'botany' (the study of plants by men) and 'polite botany' (the study of plants by women) ...
This book is really magnificent!
It is both scientific and spiritual.
It is both cerebral and sensual.
It is both profound and simple.
The Signature of All Things takes place in the 18th-19th centuries, and follows the long life of Alma Whitaker from Philadelphia to Tahiti to Amsterdam.
And what a life she has!
It encompasses history, science, genealogy, sexuality, sociology and much more.
Wait until you see how she accomplishes the "one thing in life that she just HAD to do before she dies." If you like a book with intellectual strength, this is the book for you.
Loved this! I listened to it on cd - the narrator was terrific. So much research must've gone into this. Realy well done, in every way!
