https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/536790.Trumps_of_Doom
I didn't like Dara, but maybe this book would have been more interesting if she'd been the main antagonist, because the book certainly needed one.A sorcerer, artist, warrior, athlete, and technological genius, Merlin (aka Merle) lives a boring, uncomplicated life in one of his father's old Shadow haunts, trying to emulate the father he wishes he could have gotten to know better before he disappeared into Shadow.
I'm assuming that there is a short story somewhere out there in the universe that Zelazny wrote that explained things more, but I do not know why Merlin is in possession of a half-sentient, invisible thread whip, or what even its full abilities are.
I almost gave this four stars, but it falls short of the Corwin books in the series, so I can't quite give it the same rating.But that being said, Trumps was an enjoyable return to Amber.
I don't find myself being engaged as much as with the first set of Amber books, and I don't find Merlin himself as interesting as Corwin.
He's confident, but not as sure of his place in the family.Still, a fun story and I look forward to continuing with the next installment.ETA: December 2011.Re-read this for review before tackling the rest of the Amber series.
წლების განმავლობაში ძალიან ბევრი ადამიანისგან (ძირითადად პარნასის კლიენტებისგან :დ) მესმოდა რომ კორვინის ციკლი კარგია - მერლინის არ ვარგა. ხოდა - სულაც არა! (ბოლოში არ გავსულვარ ჯერ ოღონდ)ჩემი რეკომენდაციაა, რომ ცოტა ხანი შუალედი გააკეთოთ - 2-3 წელი ჩემსავით ალბათ :)) კორვინის თავგადასავლების შემდეგ მაშინვე მაგის შვილზე რომ გადავსულიყავი ალბათ მეც მომბეზრდებოდა. საკმაოდ გავს მერლინი მამამისს...
The story starts with Merle getting ready to leave Shadow Earth behind and devote himself to working on his Ghostwheel when an old girlfriend he goes to say goodbye to winds up dead.
The trail leads Merle to a conjurer and then back to Amber, where he learns he isn't the only Amberite whose had attempts on his life.
But what does his friend Luke have to do with things?It took me almost a calendar year to finally start reading the second Amber seriers.
I also like that Merlin isn't a Corwin duplicate.Like I said, so far I'm enjoying the second chronicles of Amber.
It's like visiting with an old friend.
Kinda of a steampunk fantasy, the second arc of Amber series starts off strong with Corwin's son Merlin the main character. The series is getting stronger, and more interesting as it progresses.
The first time I read this, I remember being so disappointed that this second series set in the Amber universe featured a different protagonist from the first series.
The parallels continue but for the sake of remaining spoiler free I'll simply say that I enjoyed the poetry of the symmetry, especially since being inside a new character's head was quite a jarring transition after following an entirely different character for five previous books.Zelazny again crafts a compelling mystery and it's quite obvious that he did some serious planning for this series with all of the hints he plants so early on.
For some reason the person who wrote the GR blurb for this made it sound like an entry in the "ordinary guy/gal discovers they are special" genre -- this is not the case.
Merlin, the main character, knows perfectly well who his parents are and what powers his family has.
He is just hanging out being a computer geek and doing some experiments for fun.
The mysterious part is why someone attacks him on the same day every year.This is the beginning of the second cycle in the Chronicles of Amber.
Also that series is really good!
I've been reading the Chronicles of Amber straight through, and this book, number 6, is the best yet.
I haven't read Zelazny's other work, but I get the feeling that he really grew as a writer over the years from the beginning of the Amber novels.
Trumps of Doom, the beginning of the second series within the Chronicles, takes us on a new path, as we follow the son of Corwin, the narrator of the earlier books.
As with the original series, we begin in our own Earth, and the first half of the book reads like a good, hardboiled detective novel -- with a little magic thrown in for good measure!
A whole bunch of nothing happened, and it felt like a bit of rehash from previous books (namely, I believe, #3), wherein people are being attacked, and they all convene in Amber for some reason, chat amongst themselves, then leave and make a dramatic discovery right at the end.
The book was a definite tone change from the first five, partially due to the change of protagonist, and partially just due to being...different.
It'll take some getting used to - but even aside from that, the book was much less interesting; neither dramatic nor really fulfilling.
This is copy number 38 of 400 signed numbered copies.
Very much a reflection of Nine Princes In Amber, but I liked the more modern tone and I think it held the pace and suspense even better.
გემრიელია. მივიწყებული ისტორიის კარგი გაგრძელებაა, კორვინის გაცნობის პირველი დღეების მსგავსი. თანაც, მამას ჰგავს ბიჭი.
Том втори от „Хрониките на Амбър” съдържа поредните четири романа (части от 4 до 7) от многотомната фентъзи сага на доайена Роджър Зелазни. Легендарната поредица е задължителна за феновете на жанра и съвсем с право е включена в колекцията на издателство „Бард” „Велики майстори на фентъзи и фантастика”. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
É sempre muito difícil para um escritor de uma série mudar o protagonista, iniciando uma nova história.
Muitos fãs, acostumados com o protagonista dos primeiros livros, resistem essa mudança.No caso de Trumps of Doom, a transição para Merlin, o filho do protagonista dos primeiros cinco livros, ficou interessante, mesmo com a história seguindo o mesmo formato do primeiro livro da saga de Âmbar.A narrativa em primeira pessoa mostra a habilidade de Zelanzny, pois Merlin soa bem diferente de seu pai.
E seu estilo sintético de prosa também ajuda muito, encaixa muito bem no estilo pulp-chique de suas histórias.E vamos para o SÉTIMO LIVRO DA SAGA DE ÂMBAR!
sad to lose the lead character from the previous Amber series. The style of writing remains unchanged. I'm getting attached to Amber. This series is captivating, it kept my attention through every page, and that is saying something.
3.5 re-read on audioreview to come soon at www.fantasyliterature.com
Prior to starting Trumps of Doom, I was a little concerned that it may not live up to the grandeur of the preceding five novels which followed Corwin, a prince of Amber.
Starting with Trumps of Doom, the rest of the series follow's Corwin's son Merlin, who is half of Amber blood and half of Chaos.Despite my trepidation, I was immediately appeased by the opening sentence:"It was a pain in the ass waiting around for someone to try to kill you."That line pretty much sold me.It is also a wonderful little caricature of Zelazny's writing style in general.
As for the first five books, this review will cover the second five books for the Amber Chronicles, the Merlin Cycle.
This series was written a little later and covers the adventures of Merlin, son of Corwin (main character from the first cycle).
In some ways the overall series makes me think of the world created by Coheed and Cambria.I'd say the first five books are slightly better, or at least I like that Zelazny took a little longer to end the series (write a conclusion) in the first series.
Die Suche nach dem Unbekannten beginnt, der es scheinbar nicht nur auf Merles Leben, sondern auch auf das aller anderen überlebenden Familienmitglieder abgesehen hat...Der Band liest sich flüssig und die Handlungsführung ist nicht mehr so ruckartig und unbeholfen wie in den ersten Bänden.
Der Spannungsaufbau ist gekonnt, auch wenn Teile des Plots etwas vorhersehbar wirken, und dass der Band mit einem Cliffhanger endet, sollte inzwischen nicht mehr überraschen.
Auch die in den ersten Bänden manchmal etwas lang geratenen Schattenwanderungs-Sequenzen sind auf ein erträgliches Maß reduziert worden und stören den Lesefluss nicht mehr, vielmehr vermögen sie jetzt ihre Wirkung als atmosphärisches Mittel gut zu entfalten.
Peamiselt meeldis mulle see, et üldiselt liikusid asjad üpris tempokalt ja kogu aeg säilis soov lugeda natuke veel, et teada saada, mis edasi juhtub.Sorry, kuid minu jaoks natuke häirivaks jäi aga Merlini naiivsus ja lühinägelikkus :(.
Mismõttes ta päris mitmes kohas tegi absurseid samme ja see egost või millest iganes tulenev kindlameelne keeldumine teistele teada anda, et tema endaga on toimumas kummalised asjad.
Ehk siis, minu kurgust kostis üpris mitmel korral nurinat ja kulmud tõmbusid pahameelest krimpsu (kuidas saab nii udu olla!
ise Corwini poeg ja mitte mingi lihtsurelik, eksole), kuid õhinaga avan kohe järgmise osa ning loen võimalusel poole ööni lugu edasi...
At first, I was apprehensive about switching main characters in the second series of books, thus it took me a long time to finally pick up this one up.
This book parrallels the first book's excellent sense of mystery that had me mercilessly hooked for the first series, while still dazzling me with its magic.
With intriguing new players in the Amber legacy, tons of new mysteries, and fast paced "unputdownable" writing, this is a fantastic opening to a new series, and has rekindled my love for one of my favorite universes in fantasy.
Зелазни е направил пауза от няколко години между петата книга от Хрониките на Амбър и шестата - "Козовете на съдбата".
И този интервал му е дал възможност да подхване на съвсем нови обороти!
Историята отново е динамична и интригуваща, а главният герой е от новото поколение - синът на Коруин.
Новото поколение идва на сцената с всички свои особености - наивност и подценяване на някои обстоятелства, съчетани с висок технологичен профил.
Зелазни не само е уловил, но е презентирал перфектно рисковете, свързани с особеностите на новото време.
Книгата ме изненада, очаквах да продължава да се движи успоредно с Коруин, а изобщо не се случи така.
The first five Amber novels are the the best fantasy novels I've ever read, along with Tolkein's Lord of the Rings and the harry Potter novels. Zelazny's writing style is the hippest of the three. This book is the first of a new series, starring Corwin's son Merlin. This series was probably encouraged by the success of the original five, but it is not as good. It starts off well enough with this novel, but I think he started running out of ideas after a while.
It took six books for Roger Zelazny to write the best in the Amber Chronicles. The events in the story flow much better and engage the reader much more. There is more tension, suspense, intrigue, and it keeps the reader turning the page. Book 6 has a different protagonist than the previous 5. I'm assuming that the next five, including this one, will follow Corwin's son Merle. Corwin was the prince of Amber who was the main character in the previous five.
I liked this book a lot. The two best Amber novels were the first and the sixth. This one has it all -- magic, revenge, conspiracy, hyperdimensional computing homework. Zelazny always wrote great fight scenes too. The other books in the series did not deliver but that's not this book's fault. One of my favorites.
I had thought this Merlin Cycle was not going to be quite as good based on some of the reviews I've seen. It appeared that most people loved the Corwin Cycle then thought the second wasn't quite as good.So far, I'm liking it even better. It's got even more twists, turns and peculiar worlds and magic. It doesn't leave one bored while reading. It's almost pure excitement from page one.
I wholeheartedly recommend all the books from the Amber Chronicles. Once you read the first novel you'll stop only after you'll have read them all. I've re-read this book and the whole series at least three-times. Even after all these years I still rate it as one of the best series I've ever read.
Love the Amber Chronicles, I do. The story's a little campy, and not quite as good as it seemed when read in High School, but I still love it. Not sure if that's mainly due to the books' quality or my own nostalgia.
If you read thus far, you know what to expect. A little predictable, but enjoyable nevertheless
I haven't read this book in more than twenty years, but apparently it stuck in my memory. There was nothing new, but it was short and sweet. Looking forward to the next one.
