https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818128.Fair_Blows_the_Wind
I know L'Amour is known for his westerns, but my favorite books of his are his early American and European tales. This book fit the bill. The Walking Drum and Jubal Sackett are some of my other top Louis picks.
I finished this book about a week ago, and if my memory serves me correctly it is a book placed in the late 1500's (an age I hardly ever seek out to read about) where the man becomes stranded on an island and meets up with a group of people also stranded.
Throughout his present day occurrences the main character recalls to mind his past and what steps he took to get him to this point.
The book places him on the shores of wild America, where he is marooned accidentally, and thrust into a whirlpool of conflicting interests involving treasures, maidens and political betrothals, all the while recouning his earlier exploits in flashbacks.having been burned from his home by the English, he sets out to make a fortune to buy back his homeland and rebuild his once prestigious home.
He ranges all over the world, in London, Ireland, Scotland, a collection of Islands off Scotlands caost, including the hebrides as a soldier, a trader, sailor and even a vagabond.Finally he ends up in America where he must confront his oldest enemies and use all of his skills and abilities to escape the hornets nest he's in.
No one can take away from L'Amour's ability to hook a reader in the first few lines.My name is Tatton Chantry and unless the gods are kind to rogues, I shall die within minutes.My two companions are dead, and those who came to this shore with us have fled, believing me already killed.
One against many.Fair Blows the Wind is the second audio release in the Talon and Chantry series, but in time frame it takes place long before Borden Chantry (19th century American West) because this one is set in 16th century and follows Tatton Chantry, the first of the Chantrys.As you can see, this one opened with a breath-catching situation.
Tattan Chantry leaves Ireland after the British kill his father and burns down his home. In London he becomes interested in trade and invests in a trading venture to the New World. Marooned in the Carolinas and attacked by hostile Indians he has to survive and try to return to England. The Carolinas provide a golden opportunity to achieve his dreams.
In truth, the flashback feels so much like a different tale than the initial story is fits into that by the time it is over you've nearly forgotten the original tale.Tatton Chantry is shipwrecked on the coast of America, in one of the outer islands along the Carolinas.
Most of the novel is this flashback of Tatton's youth, introducing the main antagonist and explaining where he learned his skills, even fighting in a war in France.
While the stilted, affected old-fashioned language served well in Sackett's Land etc, it feels a bit awkward here, and doesn't flow as well as L'Amour's usual style.
(2) The kindness of strangers can make a difference in one’s life.(3) Hard training is required to develop great skill such as swordsmanship(4) The pen is a powerful friend and a horrible foe.(5) In Louis L’Amour books the good guy always wins in the end.I have read several Louis L’Amour books and they seem to have a similar story line.
Quotes from Fair Blows the WindTatton Chantry and Robert Vypont – Topic: Father teaching Tatton - pg 62“I have never been to school.
Sometimes we talked of them.”“I have few books now, but they are old friends to me.”Robert Vypont to Tatton Chantry – Topic: Wealth – pg 71“Wealth?
In this quick-moving adventure, we meet a mysterious Irishman who is seeking his fortune by sailing to "The New World"...America. The characters are colorful and inviting...gypsy swordsmen, ruffians, English Lord's and ladies, poets, Kings, and even an Incan princess.The story is safe for kids to read, no bad language or sex scenes, just exciting action.I removed a star because the ending felt a bit rushed, as if Mr. L'Amour was s trying to stay under a certain word-count.Good if you're in the mood for a quick, swashbuckling adventure.

Tatton or Tatt as most come to call him learns how to make his way in the world.
This is an epic tale of a man life as he struggles to survive in a hostile world that has little mercy for and orphan child.I really enjoyed this story as I have all of the books that I have read written by L'Amour.
It often makes me sad to know that there be no other stories written and enjoyed.
I hope that others will sit down and read some of these books and know what a great storyteller Mr. L'Amour really is.
Set in the late 16th century, we have the coming of age tale of Tatton Chantry.
A descendant of Irish nobility killed by the British, he is on the run and unable to use his rightful name.
Lively and an interesting read.#1 Chantry series - His father killed by the British and his home burned, young Tatton Chantry left Ireland to make his fortune and regain the land that was rightfully his.
Schooled along the way in the use of arms, Chantry arrives in London a wiser and far more dangerous man.
Warning, if you choose to read this book you will be well entertained and may grow to love the series.
I liked that the book takes place in Europe during the late 16 hundreds, but Tatton Chantry (the main character) travels other places as well.
This book was very enjoyable to read and it was also incredibly entertaining.
It showed good enough perspective near Tatton Chantrys point of view well enough that, at times I couldn’t help but imagining as if I was him, trying to survive against the odds of others and traveling into new lands.
This is a book my husband and I read together (he is a huge Louis L'Amour fan), one of what we call our 'dinner books' because we take turns reading to each other during meals.It was his turn to pick a book and this is the one he chose.This had a slow start but when he switched to the back story (which happens at about the time of the Spanish Armada), I was hooked.
As all true L'Amour heroes he goes on to learn (this time, swordsmanship) from the best of the best.
If you like that sort of hero, you'll like this book.
His father killed by the British and his home burned, young Tatton Chantry left Ireland to make his fortune and regain the land that was rightfully his.
He invests in trading ventures, but on a voyage to the New World his party is attacked by Indians and he is marooned in the untamed wilderness of the Carolina coast.
. Suddenly all his dreams are within reach: extraordinary wealth, his family land, and the heart of a Peruvian beauty.
But first he must survive Indians, pirates, and a rogue swordsman who has vowed to see him dead.
Cannot go wrong with anything written by Louis l'Amour.This was another of his historical stories that seemed so well researchedyou would swear that he was there to witness it and put it into writing.I'm probably a little biased as he is my favorite author of all time butI'm glad that they are putting other works out there to show people thathe was much more than a western storyteller.I have always found his work to be so authentic like I said earlier, that you would swear he was there!
I've always enjoyed a good western story and L'Amour trumps the genre. Your mind fills with graphic images of the country, landscape, wagons and cattle, cowboys and horses as they move across the prairie, or through the foothills and high mountain peaks. His characters are unique, each with a personality all their own, yet not predictable but natural. He knows the old ways of a country being settled and brings you along for the adventure of a lifetime. Fair Blows the Wind is all of that and so much more, a great classic read for any age.
A gripping action tale!My parents both read all of Louis L'Amour's books and tried to get me to read them. It has only been recently that I've truly discovered then. Although famous for his westerns, Mr. L'Amour had a way with words that draws the reader into the story. His stories are full of action and adventure. This is a great yarn about a young man trying to survive in the world and fulfill his father's dying wish. I recommend this to anyone looking for a good, fun read.
In the time of Ladies and Lords...I read this book back in middle school. Reread it again. Brought back some memories...very well written and immersive. Creates a great landscape of a forgotten time, right when the new world was being discovered and the known world was moving ever closer.
Though L'Amour's Sacketts are his "famous" family, I've always loved the Chantry stories. And this is no exception. Tatton chantry is an old-fashioned, swashbuckling hero who I'd go on an adventure with any day. And every time I read a Louis L'Amour book, I'm amazed at what a beautiful writer he was.
This was different from other L'Amour books I've read. I enjoyed the story, but at times it seemed hard to follow the many characters who came and went throughout the story. It was interesting as the tale was spun against the backdrop of the Spanish Armada and early American exploration. Although I liked the story well enough, it wasn't my favorite among L'Amour stories.
I liked this book . It was a poor man's We, the Drowned. I liked how Tatton Chantry ventured around London and the sea as well as the continent. Solid book. A father has great influence on a kid, strangers can be helpful and turn into great friends, and a skill takes time to develop.
I liked this book in a sort of return of Errol Flynn swashbuckling milady sort of way, If you liked the Walking Drum you will like this book as well, and now I read that this was book two, now I have to find book one. This was a good read.
His westerns are much better. Honestly, several times I thought of not finishing this book. It didn't hold my interest.
Great
I love Louis L’Amour books. The end.
A fast moving adventure with great characters. I won this book through goodreads.
Good adventure that rattles along.
Maybe 3.5. Good story.
Enjoyed the character and voyages on the ship, fights, and suspense..
Such a great book! I love Louis L'Amour and this is one of his best books.
