https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69652.God_Save_The_Child
This second entry in the Spenser series is a good one, featuring an interesting plot, vivid characters and scenes, and the introduction of school psychologist Susan Silverman, Spenser's perennial lover and friend.Spenser is hired by the Bartletts to find their missing son Kevin.
There are good scenes here too: Spenser and Susan's visit to a semi-criminal commune, the Barlett's drunken evening party, and the climax, where Spenser beats a man to a pulp for a very Spenserian moral reason.Unlike many of her later appearances, Susan Silverman is an asset to God Save the Child.
Wacky hijinks ensue.God Save the Child is the second book of the Spenser series, and it’s probably most notable for the introduction of Susan Silverman, the woman who will become Spenser’s long-time girlfriend and eventually the center of his world.
This one also starts to establish a bit of Spenser’s macho code that’d become a larger part of the series, and since this is early Spenser, Parker still has him capable of making mistakes.
I enjoyed this one more than the first of the series. It feels like Parker is getting comfortable with the style and his main character. The plot was adequately twisty. I'll definitely be moving on to #3.
More of the same from Spenser in this book, with lots of wisecracking, flirting, and a little fighting. The usual fun, it seems.The story was interesting, with a few twists toward the end, and the solution was not obvious. It went quickly, and I was done before I started, almost.
More wall-to-wall Spenser goodness.
This one was an investigation into a missing kid as opposed to the missing manuscript of the first novel and it had plenty of twists and turns, even if some of them might be easy to see coming by seasoned mystery readers.
Spenser remains a ton of fun to hang out with and his charmingly awkward relationship with Susan was interesting (the part where he freaks out about serving pork to a Jewish woman was funny and seemed true-to-life).
I also absolutely loved (view spoiler)[the beatdown Spenser hands out at the end of the book.
Utter badassery and also easy to root for due to the David-and-Goliath aspect.
(hide spoiler)]
PROTAGONIST: Spenser, PISETTING: BostonSERIES: #2RATING: 3.5WHY: Roger and Margery Bartlett hire PI Spenser when their 13-year-old son, Kevin, goes missing. After seeing how dysfunctional the family relationships are, Spenser wonders whether the boy ran away or was kidnapped. Kevin was infatuated with an older man, Vic Harroway, who appeared to be a sexual predator. Parker excels at descriptive writing—the characters and settings are very visual. This book introduces his romantic interest, Susan Silverman. Their repartee is clever, but I could have done without all her psychobabble.
The mystery aspect was meh. But Spenser is just so snarky he makes the story entertaining. Favorite quote:"If at first you don't succeed, to hell with it."
Kevin Bartlett has been kidnapped and it's up to Spenser to find him.
?The second Spenser book picks weeks after the first left off and does a good job fleshing out Spenser's character a bit more.
Spenser rose a few notches in my esteem in this outing.The Bartletts were well realized supporting characters, especially since they'll probably be one shots.
I felt sorry for Roger and pitied his drunken slattern of a wife.After reading the first two Spenser books, I've noticed that Parker spends a fair bit of time describing Spenser's meal preparation.
The second Spenser book possesses a lot of what I liked about the early series: Spenser working on his own (before Hawk), tremendous descriptions of the world in which he works (as in the section on his first drive to Smithfield), sharp social commentary (all the better because it is not overt), a real relationship (it's the first book with Susan, who is a real character in it, not the caricature she becomes), and some hard-edged physicality (as in the fight with Vic Harroway).
All in all, it ranksfavorably with another early case that involved both kidnapping and social commentary: "Promised Land."
Other books in the series are better.The plot was not well developed.
I wanted a better understanding of the son’s motivations and why certain bad guys were working together.
Someone is killed in the end.
I wanted more details about that.
And I was annoyed with the ending.
It was incomplete.This is book 2 in the series.
Here Spenser meets Susan who is a high school guidance counselor.
Susan continues as Spenser’s love interest in future books.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: Probably mild.
Sexual language: none.
Book copyright: 1974.
I completely forgot about it, but all the recent discussion concerning Dennis Lehane's Moonlight Mile (hey, Will!) got me thinking about Boston-related crime books and this came floating up from the cesspool of remembrance.
I'm not going to rehash the plot here, but I will say that Parker's writing moves right along, and the introduction of his perennial love interest, Susan Silverman, makes for great "sexual tension"that avoids cliché and tawdriness.
I read a couple of his other books, but, for the life of me, I can't remember which ones.
I need to go back and start reading some more of these, including the recent ones written by Ace Atkins, no slouch in his own right.
It was okay.I like the character of Spenser and I like the writing style.
I just wish it wasn't quite so...
inevitable.
Nothing much happens, and what does happen is marred by the fact that we already know who has the boy and whether or not he's in any danger.
So it's all about Spenser, instead.
As I say, I like the character, but I'd rather see him in adversity, than just doing the daily routine.
Ho-hum, another day, another nothing-much-happening.I'm sure I'll eventually get around to the next in the series.
I expect it to get much better, because of reputation, alone.
Spenser has become my favorite character. Funny, Tough, and pretty bad ass.
Oh the joys of Robert Parker, Spenser and Seventies fashion.She was probably older than she looked and not as heavy.
Her face had a bland, spoiled, pretty look, carefully made up with eye shadow and pancake makeup and false eyelashes.
She was wearing a paisley caftan slit up the side and black ankle-strapped platform shoes with three-inch soles and heels.Spenser doesn't spare hubbie, either.
He was dressed in what must have been his wife's idea of the contemporary look.
He had on black and white saddle shoes and looked as happy as a hound in a doggie sweater.Can this marriage be saved?
She acts as a nice foil, coming from a psychologically based background, and definitely makes Spenser a more well rounded, interesting person (though most of that becomes more apparent in upcoming books so I'm jumping the gun a bit).I also appreciated the fact that Parker leaves the possibility of redemption for some of the most dysfunctional characters, as well as the tentative beginning of positive change.As with The Godwulf Manuscript, once again I remembered the big solution and had forgotten most of the intervening action and intertwined mysteries.
It is possibly more notable for the introduction and budding romance between our hero and Susan Silverman, their relationship a staple, indeed often a dominating factor, in later novels.
Some interesting developments involving gay relationships (probably at least somewhat “taboo” back in 1987) surface, which we feel Parker treated pretty well given the nearly 30 years having passed since publication.
As usual, Spenser prevails in solving the whole matter and dispensing sometimes his own brand of justice – as usual, making for an adequately entertaining story.
I use to read a ton of detective mystery novels in my younger days. Today there are a lot of modern authors writing in this genre but many of them are just a little too graphic in the violence department. Parker was writing in the early 70’s and the violence is handled with a more gentle hand. I enjoyed the first book and this one was pretty good also. Spenser is the quintessential smart ass PI and he makes a nice addition to my available book picks.
As often happens, the character is becoming more stable as of the second novel and becoming more natural. The mystery is a good one and I'm finding a like Spenser a lot. I'm not yet sure he'll be another Travis McGee, but he's on his way.
I'm having trouble getting into this series, and I just can't connect with it. I would much rather read Parker's Jesse Stone series.A teenage boy has been missing for a few days and his parents believe he is kidnapped. Spenser believes the boy has run away, but a ransom note shows up and demands $50,000.I may stick out this series for a few more books, but so far it just isn't for me.
In today’s vernacular, Spenser would be described by the phrase, “He is such a guy!” For example, when Spenser’s first date with Susan Silverman slips into the “hot and heavy” stage, Susan slows things down, promising a different ending on their next date.
And just like the character of Kevin that Parker used in this novel, I remember their hurt and angry and lonely teenagers.Robert B.
Parker may not have written this novel as a social commentary at the time, but 40 years later, it most certainly is.
Solid case. Not the best but still entertaining. First I thought Spenser was too much of a narcissist but it turned out he has qualities. It's definitely an improvement over the first novel, but I still don't think Parker hit his stride with this one.
For nearly two pages Parker shared the early seventies fashion to be found on a college campus, displayed by characters without names or purpose or bearing in any way on the story at all, and when I started the second book in the series, "God Save the Child", it seemed I was in for more of the same.Maybe it was that this was the second book and with that came a growing appreciation or familiarity with Parker's writing style, but I started to understand why this was the case and why it had to be.
But then his parents receive an odd, cartoon ransom note, his mother's life is threatened, and the body of the dead guinea pig shows up in their mail.Spenser discovers the boy has been befriended by Vic Harroway, an extreme body builder (from the descriptions).
Harroway is also gay and possibly engaged in pimping out young men and women, as well as illegal drug selling.This book is both very dated (1970s clothes and attitudes) yet modern.
However, Parker also includes a gay character (Harroway), yet doesn't quite go over the edge into the attitudes of the 70's.
His upper-middle-class suburban mother and father hire Spenser to find him and bring him back home, and as Spenser tries to do so he comes across blackmail, prostitution, drug use, coercion of varying strengths and styles, and a lovely lady.
This is the first appearance of Susan Silverman, the guidance counselor at Kevin's school, and Spenser's lady-love; while some of her habits and quirks become annoying further down the line in the series, in this first appearance she's simply nice, beautiful, and funny, a good match for Spenser.
Overall a decent plot, good characters, and some funny lines.
Spenser is hired to find a young boy named Kevin Bartlett.
But the whole ransome set-up seems odd to Spenser and state cop, Healy.
It becomes even stranger when a man turns up dead inside the Bartlett home.
Marge Bartlett, a self-centered superficial woman, made such a fine target for Spenser's sarcastic wit.
Yet, Parker balances the female characters with Silverman, an intelligent woman concerned with peoples's thoughts and feelings.
Race is also an awesome character.
Trask made a great foil for Spenser and I'm wondering if we'll see him again.
It was still great, nonetheless.
Over the 35 plus years and I don't know how many novels that their romance unfolds, both help the other become who they are.This novel, the second in the Spenser series, is the one where Spenser meets Susan.
Of course, it's secondary to the plot of the book, but it makes the book worth reading for that.Spenser is hired to find a young man named Kevin, who has run away from home.
No one has been able to find him; as Spenser gets to know the parents, he understands why Kevin ran away (what will become a fairly familiar plot device in the books).

Only aware of Parker through the series with the late Robert Urich, The Child is hard to evaluate from today's perspective.
many of the tropes Parker uses - the hard bitten, cooking obsessed, wise ass was done to death by those who followed, and the 70's milieu is almost quaint.I bought the first two of these along time ago and now that I've read them I can't say I'd read more.
This is not a knock on Parker, but more on a genre that I've explored rather completely and don't feel holds much new in the way of plotting or characters.
✭✭✭✭
#2 in the Spenser humorous detective seriesAlthough the Spenser books are about serious subjects (in this case kidnapping a young boy), Spenser's dry wit and clever sense of humor always add light-hearted fun to this series.
I really "get" Parker's humor and am charmed (and impressed) by his knowledge of literature and correct grammar.
The books in the series are all quick, easy reads and very predictable, but in a good way.
I know what to expect, I look forward to the story, and Parker always delivers.
In this case, Spenser is hired to find a kidnapped boy from the suburbs.
