https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111734.The_Iceman_Cometh
Rating: get real. It's a play.The Publisher Says: Eugene O’Neill was the first American playwright to win the Nobel Prize in Literature. He completed The Iceman Cometh in 1939, but he delayed production until after the war, when it enjoyed a long run of performances in 1946 after receiving mixed reviews. Three years after O'Neill's death, Jason Robards starred in a Broadway revival that brought new critical attention to O’Neill’s darkest and most nihilistic play. In the half century since, <&
Three years after O'Neill's death, Jason Robards starred in a Broadway revival that brought new critical attention to O’Neill’s darkest and most nihilistic play.
In the half century since, <>The Iceman Cometh has gained enormously in stature, and many critics now recognize it as one of the greatest plays in American drama.
The Iceman Cometh focuses on a group of alcoholics and misfits who endlessly discuss but never act on their dreams, and Hickey, the traveling salesman determined to strip them of their pipe dreams.My Review: Plays, blech.This cheery little bagatelle expresses beautifully (as in, with lovely, sonorous sentences) the pointlessness, uselessness, and worthlessness of modern life.
رویاهای دست نیافتنیرویاهای دست نیافتنی مشخصهای اساسی است که شخصیتهای بیپول، بیکار و بیگانه از جامعه را در این نمایشنامه دور هم گرد می آورد و نقطه مشترکی میان این شخصیتهای مختلف میشود. این رویاها در اشکال مختلفی ظاهر میشوند. در شخصیتهای لاری، هوگو و مادر پاریت به عنوان رویایی برای رستگاری سیاسی نمود پیدا میکند. در حالی که رویا و خیال هیکی نسبت به رستگاری بیشتری جنبهای مذهبی دارد. بیشتر شخصیتهای دیگر نمایشنامه به چیزی تعلق دارند که لاری به استهزا از آن به عنوان «جنبش فردا» یاد میکند. هر یک از شخصی
وقتی هم که نهایتا در منسب قضاوت می نشیند و پاریت را به مرگ محکوم می کند، این شیوه پیوند او با جهان باعث می شود، پایان خویش را آرزو کند.در ابتدا هیکی خودش در نقش قاضی ظاهر می‌شود، به تشریح و بررسی رویاهای دست نیافتنی افراد گروه می پردازد، نهایتا مشخص می شود که خودش هم درگیر رویایی است؛ رویایی مرتبط با موعضه هایش درباره رستگاری، رویای رسیدن به رستگاری و رهایی از گناه قتل همسرش.
"O'Neill uses the phrase  the big sleep  throughout his play as a synonym for death," advises Ray Chandler, "apparently in the belief that it's an accepted underworld expression.
The tenor of his writing here shows that he knows very little about the subject."The playwright also bops us over the head with the phrase "pipe dreams." It takes him over four hours to say life is only bearable if we have fantasies and ignore the truth.
He couldn't "write," but, at his best, he had a keen feeling for stage showmanship.
So I sit here, with my pride drowned on the bottom of a bottle, keeping drunk so I won't see myself shaking in my britches with fright, or hear myself whining and praying: Beloved Christ, let me live a little longer at any price!
If one sees or reads this play just take in mind that it is cynicism that generates all the tragedy here and any optimism or hope WILL NOT BE TOLERATED (unless your "Yellow" like Larry).
Which is why you should read it."Long Day's Journey into Night" is O'Neill's best play but "The Iceman Cometh" is his greatest achievement.
Each one has a cherished dream of what they wanted to do with their life and an excuse as to why they failed.
The king of the losers is Harry Hope.
He doesn't want to lament life's passing anymore.
He wants to go out there and live.
And to celebrate they drink to the future!The next day this is all revealed to have been just part of the regular cycle of booze and hangovers.
To read or watch an O’Neill play is properly a life altering experience.
Very often, as with the present work, it ought to leave one’s life in shambles, the veritable house of cards you always knew it was but hoped no one else would notice.The Iceman Cometh is a tragedy, but one in which you find yourself easily engaged from the beginning.
They don’t look quite the same on the stage or on the page, but some of the things each of them says: it’s like something you heard someone say somewhere, some other place and time.The play is about dreams and guilt and responsibility.
As the history of the world proves, the truth has no bearing on anything." -Larry, The Iceman Cometh Act One.The first time I picked this play up, I had a feeling I was going to really enjoy it.
Well, "enjoy" is probably the wrong word to use, even as I am a now twice-read, twice-seen, fan of this Eugene O'Neill play.
It's a hard play to digest.Americans occasionally give great playwrights permission to be longwinded.
. As with that two part epic, Eugene O'Neill has provided us with a brilliant exploration of angst and regret, American style.
Reading out loud and in character is how plays are meant to be read.
On the other note, the play was great.
I love dark elements to writing.
There was a lot of talk about pipe dreams, which isn't a term I use a lot, I don't even really know what it means.
In this case many of the characters had something they should feel guilty for that caused them to be alcoholics, but they claim there is some other reason that they are in this position.
The logic that Hickey uses for why he kills his wife is actually very logical.
Loved it!!

I think because I had a lot of anger myself I liked the idea that you could be angry and still "get away with it." Of course in the end Hickey falls apart but he's so much more heroic and tragic than a total failure like Willy Loman.
Another thing I really loved about this play was how young Parrit hates his mother and her radical friends so much.
There was so much I hated about my professors at Columbia and Parrit really expresses this eloquently when he talks about "tramps and bums and free women" who think they are so much better than anyone else.
We are introduced to the various types: Rocky, the bartender; Larry Slade, the protagonist who has given up on his pipe dream and awaits his exit from life; Parritt, a rebel anarchist; Willie, a failed law student; Harry Hope, proprietor of the bar; Watjoen and Lewis, enemies on the battle field who are now drinking buddies; Joe, former gambler; Pat, former police man.
Some readers see this drama solely as a depressing play about alcoholic-loser types with failed lives, which is a pity, because this is an outlook that sells this powerful drama short.
You must see the agony, not project the scene direction; you must experience the horror through other characters, not attribute the feeling from back scene narration; you must watch the soliloquy lead to the dénouement; not be interrupted by printed interjections from the side.This man killed his wife, ostensibly to set her free from having to continue loving the louse he’d become.
For me, the unique angle of this play was not murder (albeit for whatever reason—it just didn’t surprise me); instead it was Hickey’s attempt to intrude on each barfly, break the pipedream, dispel their illusions, and make them see how free they were to change their lives.
33-The Iceman Cometh by Eugene O'Neill (Play-Physical) 5* Welcome to the “Boulevard of Broken Dreams” or if your the playwright Eugene O'Neill enter his created world of Harry Hope's Saloon and Boarding House or better stated Bar and Flop House where the cast of characters, of which there are quite a number of them are spending their yesterday's, today's and tomorrow's lost in an alcoholic haze in forgetting their broken pipe dreams.
I can't imagine what inspired O'Neill to write such a dark play as it doesn't appear it should have had much of an appeal to a vast audience, and yet it has been performed over the years a number of times.
The Iceman Cometh is noted for its dark realism; its setting and characters closely resemble real life. The world of the play is a cruel place. Despair is a constant presence, love only an illusion, and death something to which one looks forward. Relief comes in alcohol and pipe dreams—groundless hopes for a future that will never arrive.The play seems too dark and despairing to bear but stay with it ... It doesn't get any less depressing but there is much interesting philosophy along the journey.
People drug themselves with self-justifying lies. Can they find peace in truth? No, that too is a pipe dream. Only the lies make life bearable. Pass the bottle.
During the first half of the play everyone gathers at the saloon for a birthday party and just waits for Hickey to arrive.
In this world people embrace only the possibility of a better life, they never intend to take the steps that would actually lead to one, but it's that hope that keeps them going.
I could see each of the characters thinking about their “one day” plans and truly believing that those dreams were attainable.
It asks the question, do people really want to reach their goals or is the fact that they have those dreams enough for them?
This is one of the richest plays, symbolically, of modern American theater.
But like most if not all O'Neill plays, it is as interesting to read as it is to see on the stage.
Lots of other plays of this era that are heavy on symbolism rely on the visual cues of the production to bring the meaning through, and therefore can seem remote and boring when reading them.
And I remember I encountered the phrase "pipe-dream" for the first time reading this play.
Honestly, this play moves me in so many ways that I really want to give it a 5 star rating, except for the fact that in many cases it is dreadfully, irredeemably overwritten.I tried to watch the movie which could boast of having Jason Robards and Robert Redford in it, but I got bored to death after the first 45 mins or so.
No slight to O'Neill, at least in terms of his writing (it could have been an incredible novella or linked group of short stories, maybe a mid-length novel and been better off) but in terms of play production.....nah.
As we hear of each of their pasts, it's so sad to know that their lives once held promise and it slipped away.Along comes Hickey who tries to show them that they can break out of their pattern, return to their old lives.
He tries to give them hope.
The play is a bit long.
It gets a bit repetitive in the middle as each character tries to break out of their mold.
All in all, this would be a good play to see on stage with the action and drama.
It's a good play to read; it's just a bit long.
They sit around, reminiscing about the better days and their big plans to get their lives started, all of them anxiously awaiting the arrival of Hickey, a salesman who comes by once a year to blow a lot of money on them and throw a birthday party for Harry, the owner of the saloon.It's a great play and one of the best ever written, in my opinion.
The setting, dialogue, and characters might seem a bit dated, but the actual substance of the play remains relevant.
It's also a bit slow in the beginning setting up the characters and story, but once Hickey shows up it really shines.
I was worried it'd be all that I couldn't stand in a play - too many characters, overly predictable, far too fast-paced...and I'd have been sad, but O'Neill does not disappoint.
The characters were all clear, the New York accent was well-written and not overly distracting, the set is clear and I can easily picture it all.
I was surprisingly moved by their stories, and found myself reading on hoping that they would succeed in dashing away their pipe dreams and tomorrows...
I look forward to reading more plays [especially one recommended by eo]
I know O'Neill is considered one of the greatest, if not the greatest, American playwrights; and I LOVE Long Day's Journey into Night, however, I absolutely HATED this play. I had no "in" to the play. I didn't like any of the characters, therefore, I didn't care about any of them. Because of this I found it very difficult to read the long, drunken ramblings of each of the characters. I couldn't fathom any point to the play-If there was an over arching theme to it, I missed it, and don't care to find it.
Riveting play about the necessity of "pipe dreams" (hoping for the impossible) to continue living without falling into despair. The one person who has their pipe dream taken away commits suicide. The scenes are so well set up and the descriptions of how characters talk, it felt like a novel. The characters were excellent, the political themes were good, the major plot reveal at the end was good too. Highly recommend to anyone who enjoys plays.
The characters are well-defined and drawn out. The dialogue is believable, but for as lengthy as this piece is, I was wishing there was more insight and backstory to provide the reader with a better understanding and empathy for why these people are they way they are.
This is the first O'Neill play I've read, which is a shame being that he did much of his work in my hometown and we share a birthday. But I digress...The Iceman Cometh is depressing, resonant, and sadly realistic and relatable. The only thing that made me not give it five stars is that the dialogs can get pretty tired and unnatural feeling. Everyone responding to things in chorus is symbolic, but is unnecessary and becomes overused.
2018 Reading Challenge: weather element in the titleWhen your life is miserable so you get stuck in a slump and hang with other miserable people and along comes someone even more miserable as if anyone thought that was possible who makes you realize just how much of a loser you’ve become and you’re ok with that as long as it’s the status quo
perhaps the most exceptional american playwright ever (though lorraine hansberry & august wilson come damn close). harry hope, hickey, you'll recognize a little bit of everytown in this dramatic masterpiece.
I hate Eugene O'Neill's writing style. His dialogue is so stilted, it's impossible to believe it. However, his plotlines are smart, and I like the charcters he creates, particularly here.
It's all in de game. (Cora, Act V)It's all in the game.All in the game, yo.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12983988
