https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403541.Let_Us_Compare_Mythologies
Let Us Compare Mythologies is definitely the work of a young man.
Cohen is also writing fully in the “poems are meant to be abstract and ungrammatical” school of thought, which is a style that makes my poor narrative-oriented brain go, Ouch!
But Cohen does prove himself to be competently literate about his posey, and even though the wizened-old-man shtick wears thin, a handful of these poems have that magic you’ll find in his songs, those sobering moments of lucidity that make you want to tell the bartender to go ahead and pour you another stiff one.
Definitely the lush, romantic images of human demoralization I expected from Leonard Cohen and loved!
The book is delicately unified, and worthwhile reading.When I mention religion, I mean, for one, that Cohen makes us aware of his Jewish background, i.e.
"When young the Christians told me / how we pinned Jesus / like a lovely butterfly against the wood, / and I wept beside paintings of Calvary" (note his misplaced modifier in the first line ;).But it doesn't escape Cohen that the human condition is plagued by other religions, the ones of addiction, technology's comforts, and apathy.
questi versi eroici"se avessi una testa scintillante e la gente si voltasse a guardarmi nei tram; se potessi distendere il mio corpo nell'acqua limpida e nuotare a fianco dei pesci e dei serpenti marini; se potessi rovinarmi le piume volando davanti al sole; credi che me ne rimarrei in questa stanza, a recitarti poesie, e a fare sogni sconci al più insignificante movimento della tua bocca?"
It's interesting to contrast this with Cohen's later work. It has a lot in common so far as sensibilities and moods go, but is also drastically different in execution. A large part of the appeal of Cohen for me is how communicative he is. Here, he feels very insular and inaccessible a lot of the time. The poems are well-written and intellectually engaging without making me feel in any way connected to them.
Beautiful, evocative, dark and sensual.

I was floored when he died.These poems still hold up, much like his music.
We have a whole set of religious texts in the house, though; I've just been too lazy to attempt reading them.) But I still could appreciate this volume of poetry - especially "Rites" and "Lovers", which quite frankly broke my heart.
"Elegy" and "Story" are two other favourites, which I was familiar with already from an anthology of Canadian poetry that my mom has around the house somewhere.This book isn't due back to the library for another week.
I may keep it out and re-read a few of the poems.
Young, lustful, shining with wisdom but lacking the sorrowful regret old age brings, the poems are a beautiful collection of a young creative artist engaging in life. Some of them punched me in the gut hard - for which, I was thankful.
Leonard Cohen's first book of poems has a number of striking pieces. The rhythms and range span most of the major concerns he would develop at the height of his composing powers. Recommended for Cohen acolytes.
Incredible. Magic beauty.
Most were very bad and few demonstrated talent.
This was pure poetry. Leonard was extrenely discriptive in each passage
Beautiful. Did you expect anything less?
4.5
"Do not look for him In brittle mountain streams: They are too cold for any god;And do not examine the angry riversFor shreds of his soft bodyOr turn the shore stones for his blood;"Leonard Cohen has really created a very sensual and almost aphotic atmosphere throughout this entire book. I really love how beautiful and seemingly effortless the way this was written. also really enjoyed the inclusion of the quirky illustrations that were put throughout the book, great artistic flavour and a good reflection on both poems and the author's mindset.
Certainly exposed to, but left vulnerable and imperfectly developed in his poetry, leading readers to question, “How close to truth are his experiences and imaginings?” His poems here are not all intellectual wells of historical spirituality.
It is best to read these poems slowly, more than once will help, and given proper attention any reader should find something of interest among them.It becomes obvious while reading these poems that the young Cohen is still exploring literary ideas as well as content.
As his first published work, “Let Us Compare Mythologies” is impressive and exceeds what many four year graduates are able to do at such a young age.
This book of poetry that Leonard Cohen had published at the age of twenty-two certainly shows how he became one of the phenomenal poets of our country.
Even from the first poem in the book I was drawn in and could easily follow the narrative of Cohen's work.
On page 45 we find the poem  "Twilight": "Those days were just the twilight And soon the poems and the songs Were only associations Edged with bitterness" Leonard Cohen is so gifted with our language and if you want to get into his poetry this is where you start.
Bravo Leonard, Bravo!
I typically don't enjoy poems that don't rhyme, but these were different.
Rather than the artsy random non-rhyming words strung together, Cohen's non-rhyming poems had a story-telling quality to them.
In fact, a select few I would consider extremely short stories rather than poems.Some of the poems did rhyme, but for the first time, I found myself enjoying the non-rhyming poems more.
Perhaps this is due to the fact that when you are not concerned with rhyme, there are no constraints on word choice.Quick read with a feeling of something gained in the short time that it takes to get through this book.
ugh.
also, this being leonard cohen's first book of poetry, apparently most of the poetry in here was written between the ages of fifteen and twenty.
kill me now.
and i'm pretty sure i had a more eloquent review in my head but it slipped away because it didn't matter, i guess.
this is the sort of book of poetry that you would give to a girlfriend or boyfriend, i think, or which you would maybe be too frightened to give to anyone in case they didn't see in it everything you did, and you didn't want something to break, to fall apart.
This is very much what you would expect from the first collection of poetry from Leonard Cohen. The bare bones of what make him great are evident here, but it doesn't seem quite there.He touches on many of his later themes in these writings, centering around Abrahamic religious plot devices taken from Christianity and Judaism. Being the first Cohen that I've read as opposed to listened to, I was left wanting more. I'm interested to continue reading through the development of his poetry and his novels.
I'm just not that good at reading and connecting with poetry, so many of the poems just didn't grab me. Putting those comments aside, I certainly appreciated the ways the young Leonard Cohen addressed themes about being Jewish in a Christian setting, about eroticism without being pornographic, and the darkness that oozed from whatever he was writing about. I thought that the way he addressed death, dying and grief was quite deep and sensitive, all the more setting him apart other 22 year olds in 1956 when I was 15.
A fine debut collection. All the raw material that Cohen would draw upon throughout his career is present and seeing this early iteration of those themes is special to read. Out of these early poems would come remarkable things. There are some very fine moments in this collection, and others that are just nice and okay. But all of it shows where Cohen was headed. Glad we could follow along through his journey.
I will review this – as well as one CAN review a book of poetry, which I feel is a treacherous business – after I've read Book of Longing, as soon as I can bring myself to absorb more Leonard Cohen. (Right now, I'd give this at least four stars, but I'll suspend my full 'judgement' until later.)
You shouldn't judge a book by its cover, but my copy of this is a facsimile edition that's designed to look how it did when it was first published, which is awesome. Cohen's poetry is average here, and while I've read better it's still well worth reading the Canadian singer-songwriter's more refined, more linguistic work.
Cohen's first collection published in 1956 - much more satisfying to me than Book of Mercy or Energy of Slaves - these poems are lyrical, defiant and, often, a powerful political punch or a wry sense of humour - still very contemporary feeling - looking forward to continuing my exploration of Cohen's poetry
Not a great collection. There are moments where the quiet, deadly provocateur that Cohen will become peeks through, but these are the exception. I don't blame Cohen at all -- who would want to be judged by their output between 15 and 20? What would become his profound moral voice is here changing and pipsqueaky.
Je t'aime Leonard.A concert at GM Place with the 70-something Leonard Cohen confirmed it, he's the coolest Canadian writer/musician. He is so giving, so perceptive, so emotional, so affecting.I hate that he was 22 when he wrote this book, mostly because it makes me feel shitty about myself, not to mention old.
Cohen's ability to create poignant and bittersweet poetry should be familiar to anyone who's listened to his music. This collection includes a number of beautiful poems, particularly Exodus. As the title might suggest, the poems create the sense of having a conversation with Cohen, the kind of conversation that one has at four in the morning.
Meh. There was nothing new or exciting here, and most of the poetry was hard to follow. There were some nice poems and language.I am unsure of what he was trying to do with this volume, but I honestly couldn't wait for it to be over.
If I was reviewing this book when it first came out (1956), I would probably say that it's "promising". You can see hints of the genius to come, but he's still pretty rough around the edges. Good for a first book, though.
