https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11947156-prince-of-wolves
I freaking loved this book!
The book was fantastic.
The secondary characters were just as fun and interesting, especially Sorin.
I want good things for him b/ c he's loyal and has potential to be a yummy guy.
And the main characters were fabulous.
In truth, there were times when I wanted Jen to be a little more serious, but still, she was funny.
I want you to claim me as your true mate.
He was all my favorite things about guys wrapped into one.
I can't wait to pick up book 2 and hopefully read about their blood rites ceremony.
The Alpha of Coldspring, Lucas wants a challenge in fighting for Jacque as his mate.I found all the characters pretty annoying.
I mean first she says she not ready to be Fane's mate and the next, she say's she wants to make love.
Well because these teenagers seem mentally to be like 11 year old girls.I was really close to putting this book down, i had no desire to keep reading but in the end i finished it, quick read really but annoying.
It didn't really entertain me as i though it would of and the alternating of the characters between Fane and Jacque was annoying.
I got about 1/3 of the way through before I had to either stop reading or repeatedly slam my head against a solid brick wall.1) Loftis is constantley switching POV throughout the book...
I'm fine with having different POVs but when they are in the same paragraph it is beyond annoying.2) Instead of swear words, symbols are used insteasd.
Also, their sudden acceptance of the fact that Fane (another stupid name) is a werewolf and that their best friend can hear his voice inside his head is really unbelievable.
Or lack thereof.) Please read it and answer the multiple choice question below:Wow, I mean wow, is all Jacque could think.
I wish I could meet a guy like that!(b) The writing and grammar are atrocious!
sorry, what was the question?If your answer was (a) or (c), have a great time reading this book and all of its many sequels.
You'll enjoy it, at least until you go to college.If your answer was (b) or (d), do not pass GO and--seriously--do not download or read this book, even if it's free.
The rest of the book is just like the paragraph above.
errr, not so awesome.Do not get scared, they weren't unbearable characters or anything, in fact, in the beginning I liked them a lot, Jaque and her friends were pretty cool and all of them had a unique sense of humor and very creative ways of talking.
For example Jaque can hear Fane's voice in her head from the moment she first sees him, and she immediately goes on to tell her best friends and they all believe her and just want details on what he says...
I mean, I love my friends, but if one of them comes telling me something like this, I won't believe her and I'll think she's joking.
DNF 20%Unpopular opinion time! Sorry to the people who gave this 4+ stars for this book. As for me it was just too painful to read. Really, too painful.
The series is one that continues on from book to book and would be best enjoyed starting from the beginning and reading in order.
Jacque Pierce is a normal seventeen year old girl that likes hanging out with her best friends and of course cute boys.
You see Fane is not a normal teenage boy but a werewolf prince and Jacque seems to be Fane's mate.
The story is also one that reads a little young feeling to me with the kind of cutesy teen interactions which can feel a bit off when your talking mates and things.
“Actually,” Jacque said distracted, “I was thinking more James Bond-ish, you know with the whole stake out thing…”“No, huh-uh, that would be more like Dog the Bounty Hunter type stuff.
But staring at that great goodreads rating, I decide to try again.Chantelle reads Prince Of Wolves - Take 2At this point, Jacque proceeds to tell her friends that she heard a guy talk to her via telepathy.
Not only does this "novel" have a truly idiotic and mind-bogglingly annoying narrator, the rest of the characters are also unrealistic, dumb asses.
How I felt when I realised I had wasted good minutes of my life reading Prince of Wolves:There are so many problems with this book, that honestly, it's hard to gather my thoughts enough to actually start this review, but here goes:Dumbass friendsSally finally spoke up.
As a teenager, I think I know how teenagers speak, and it certainly isn't like this:"You are so, so not comparing me to Dog the Bounty Hunter's daughter right now and why are we talking about this anyway because it is sooooo NOT the point!"Yep, that's the line exactly as it appears in Prince of Wolves, right down to the number of 'o's in so.
I was so excited for a Romanian character.
I ask her in what language because in Romanian, Fane is short for Stefan (Stephen).
How come she finds it so normal to hear voices?
How come her friends just casually accept that?
She calls a meeting with her friends and they think it normal.
*sigh*Oh, and let's talk about the Romanian used in the book.
This is supposed to mean "my lady, it is an honor".
"lady my, this is a honors"
.And this is just one example.If you are not sure about the language, ask around.
Romanians might read your book, too.
Needless to say, I fell in love with the book, the characters, and Quinn Loftis has become one of my most favorite authors.
I love Jacque, Jen, and Sally, and the chemistry and humor that flows between them.
I love Quinn's take on the werewolves in this story, and the way she presents the whole werewolf concept.
Quinn is a very talented author and Prince of Wolves is one of those books you just don't want to put down.
If you love young adult fiction (whether you are a young adult or not), I think you will be pleasantly surprised with Prince of Wolves.
As a sixteen year old reading this book, I found it very difficult to connect with the characters of this book who are of similar age.
Do seventeen year olds really have a hankering for hot chocolate during gossip time?
Hot chocolates are for little whining eleven year olds, which the characters probably are.
And I don't like how these characters easily accept what's happening.
I want my $0.99 and time back.
The only thing good about this book is the sense of friendship and loyalty between friends, family and lover, but even that was spoiled from the nature of the characters.Rant over.
After it ended, it was a pretty cute book but I did find somethings annoying (like the MC).In the beginning, I liked Jacque but throughout the book she had these "tantrums".
He definitely makes me want to date someone with a sexy ass accent now because hot damn, he could read like instructions on how to build something and I would love it.
I wanted one person to die but it was looking like someone else might die and I was freaking out.
After the ending, I was happy with how it turned out.
If the second book turns out to be an audio, I will definitely dive into it!
There was not one thing I didn't love about this book (except now I have to wait until the end of November for the next one to come out).
Anyhoo, eventually they meet properly and she finds out who he is and that werewolves exist and that she has a lifelong mate in Fane and felt their connection immediately but not so much she wasn't going to make him work for it.
Things get tricky when Fane finds out that another Grey wolf has claimed Jacque (unbeknown to her) as his mate and challenged him to a fight to the death for her.
I LOVED THIS WHEN I WAS FIFTEEN OMG WHAT EVEN IS THIS IM GOING TO RE READ IT AND ROAST FIFTEEN YEAR OLD ME
As true love blossoms a rival Alpha steps forward challenging Fane to a fight to the death, the prize-Jacque’s Heart.As we eagerly devour the second book Blood Rites, we are taken deeper into the world of the Canis Lupis or werewolves for that matter.
While sexy and sassy Jen toes the line with Decebel’s heart, a plan to overthrow the Romanian Alpha is set in motion and all is not what it seems.Loftis captures your mind and imagination and shows us a world that we all secretly wish could exist, I mean who doesn’t want to know there are some hot werewolves out there looking for someone to call there mate?
Sarcasm is funny in small doses, but it seemed like every conversation Jacque had to make a sarcastic comment, and she came off sounding kind of snotty.
I kept cringing when Fane's father, the ALPHA, was explaining things and Jacque's friends would make stupid little comments.
Everyone acted like the girls were funny but I think a true Alpha would have had enough and put them in their place by making them shut up.
I think it would have been cooler if once she found her mate and did the whole bonding ceremony and blood rites thing, that triggered the dormant wolf inside of her or something like that.
Again, I was wrong.I thought the characters in this book were BEYOND annoying.
She tries to hard to be funny.And if Jacque is not bad enough, her two gossipy friends are worse, a bunch of squealing, bubblehead idiots, especially Jen. I know her character is made to be the one "who doesn't know when to shut her mouth," but she really just wears me out.The book uses too many sayings and catch phrases, and a lot of times, the characters are using them wrong on purpose.
How weird is that!I think the author tried to hard to make her characters witty and funny.
So, I know some people often rate books based on how realistic the characters and/or the dialogue is and this series may seem a bit far-fetched at first glance. However, the dialogue (however true or untrue it may be to how teens communicate) made this book and the series! I was laughing out loud the entire time and I absolutely loved every single exchange between all the characters. I've already read the other two books in this series (I read them all in about 2 days since I enjoyed this one so much) and I can't wait for more.
It sometimes seemed as if they were trying to hard to be funny or sarcastic.I found that while some of the conversations were alright and realistic, others just left me thinking: Does anyone actually sound like this?
It's just that when I am reading a book I imagine what the characters voices would sound like in my head.
So when I was reading this the characters sometimes sounded whiny, fake and sometimes annoying.
Wouldn't it sound better if it read: I wonder what she's worried about.See the difference an ' and a period can do?
When a transfer student from Romania, Fane, moves in across the street, Jacque's world as she knows it is about to change.
Fane is her mate, and better yet he is a prince!
I loved this book, not only because of the story but the relationships between Jacque and her friends but the relationship between Jacque and Fane.
Jacque and Fane go through many hardships to be together, and fight they do.
I will read anything Quinn writes, even if it's not the Prince of Wolves series.
I know she can make you do that with any story she writes.
Or maybe at twenty five years of age I am far to old to be reading this boring drivel.When does this get good...?Things wrong with this book: Although the book started of in a vaguely amusing tone, with our heroine Jacque and a pair of binoculars stalking her neighbour's new overseas student, (CLICHE ALERT #1, I mean seriously...tall dark and handsome arrives right next door...BOKE.
Like for instance, if she is looking at their face and they are biting their bottom lip then she can tell that maybe they are worried or sad (or horny,) with out any words she just knows...(Anyway CLICHE ALERT #2 MC has mystery power of unknown limits.
Just as Fane got out of his limo, to his host family's house, he heard a voice in his head.
Jacque found out a new foreign exchange student was moving right in front of her house.
Sally and Jen were determined to meet the new foreign exchange student because they needed to see how hot he was for themselves.
The next fine morning Jacque, Sally, Jen, and Jacque's mother went to the Henery's where Fane stayed for the school year.
When Fane looked out the window, he knew who Jacque was in one second because of her amazing green eyes.
The sloppy romance and the drama was slightly disturbing but Quinn Loftis' sense of humor almost covered everything.
Not to mention that Fane and Jacquelyn were awesome, Sally and Jen just made it holy amazing :)What made me fall in love with POW:Fane, Fane and Fane.
Yeah, as Jen would have said "That ball of fur pees on everything he wants to mark as his and he's a real caveman!" But still, oh, I love his Romanian guts!Anyone who hated and couldn't find a nice werewolf book just read it or die and regret it.
It was an awesome read.
I loved this book, it's these kind of books that make me wish I could live in a world where werewolves and other creatures existed, Fane is the perfect example of an awesome caring maybe a little over protective but still awesome boyfriend. I loved Jaqualyns character and her 2 best friends. JEN was hilarious!! All 3 of the girls were. Can't wait to get started on the second book.
Now I re-read this for the sole purpose of reviewing this, so here we go.I love the whole Soul Mate's trope, it is my thing, and I remember continuing this series because of the soul mate trope, BUT THIS BOOK IS CRAP, I'm sorry but it is.
Why this book is crap you ask?Mildly tolerable crap may I add?o  FANE  Okay people don't get me started on this idiot.
Calm down people this isn't a spoiler, it was literally on the first page, okay?)SO FREAKING FORMAL   "Thank you Jacquelyn, you are right.
This should have been an EASY fix had this been edited.Right off that bat, we read about Jacque's first encounter with Fane from her POV.....
You pick someone and tell the scene from their POV.
You can pick up with the other person's POV for the NEXT scene and they can reflect on what happened, but I don't want to read the same thing twice (often with many of the same exact phrases...) BETTER YET!
Tell the WHOLE story from Jacque's POV and let Fane remain a bit of a mystery.
Either write the curse word or pick a new one, like crap!
I mean yeah, these girls are still pretty tstl but this time it totally read like mindless fun.
I don't know how I'm gonna get through the next book.And how indifferent I am towards Fane (Already forgot his name, had to really rack my brain) shouldn't even be possible.The saving grace?
I LOVE throwing punches.I don't think I've actually ever thrown one though...
So awful and offensive that even I don't want anyone to read it.
Exclusively .5 stars for Jen and Sally and another .5 star for "The Punch".Oh, who am I kidding?
The writing was poor, it told me what was happening instead of showing me, and the dialogue seemed almost robotic and fake.
The characters were not good, Jacque was very childish and Fane very cheesy.
She then tells her friends who also seem to think that nothing odd or weird has happened and they completely believe her.
If I told my friends that they would either think I was, A) pulling a prank, or B) lost my mind.
Literature continues to prove that there is a lot of love for ‘mate for life’ paranormal romances, so maybe that is why this book has so much praise.
If only I could pick the lottery with the same luck I have with books thus far.
I just loved reading about Jacquelyn, Fane and the other characters that were plain funny.
At first it took me awhile to get use to the authors style of viewing Fane and Jacquelyn intake of a situation.
Fane a foreign exchange student from Romania has found his mate the one true love that completes him and can tame the wolf in him.
His Alpha wanted Fane to leave and to understand that Jacque was already spoken for...she was to be the Alpha's mate.
