https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/401930.The_Three_Edwards
I'm on a Costain popular history marathon. The Three Edwards is third in the series of four about the Plantagenets. It's fairly light reading (I've been a historian, and Costain won't be on any history professor's syllabus!), but his writing is really good and the Plantagenets an intriguing bunch. He also clearly explains when he's speculating or merely repeating a good but unverifiable story about the kings and queens and their courts and coteries from centuries ago. It's a fine journey.
Even if this is the third book of the Plantagenets series and I haven't read the second book, I was able to follow the very interesting flow of the narrative.In my opinion, Costain is one of the masters in telling the history in a very captivating way by keeping the reader always connected with the description of the historical facts.I think Edward III was the most dreadful story among his processors'.
I was surprised by how enjoyable and readable this book was.
Within the first few pages Edward I gets stabbed with a poisoned dagger by a treacherous Muslim, and the history stays at that level of excitement throughout.
Costain writes remarkably descriptive prose--he uses a whole lot of adjectives--but never delves into fiction.
I was pleased by Costain's breadth scholarship, as well.
And yet, despite all this detail, the book is never slowed down.
I felt like I got a very comprehensive account of each Edward while also getting a good feel for the times they lived in.
What I learned is people are people whoever they are, even Kings and Queens. I also learned lots of history of England. It was a very engaging book. It is not a novel, but it reads like one and carries the reader along on one adventure after another...very exciting.
Second only to Drunken History
This was my second reading, and I enjoyed it as much as the first time. It reads like a novel, with lots of interesting personal information.
First sentence: The Crusades were running down like an unwound clock.Premise/plot: The Three Edwards is the third volume in the nonfiction series by Thomas B.
It covers the politics, the wars, and the personal dramas.
Except perhaps for the reign of Edward II--that had its own dramas and conflicts--much of the book is spent on wars at home and abroad.
My interest in specific battles is low I admit.
I have no interest in battle tactics, etc.
Costain does a good job of presenting the strengths and weaknesses of each Edward.
Other books in the series: The first volume is The Conquering Family.
I got a bit bogged down in places; there seemed to be a lot of unfamiliar "side trips" that were slower to digest.Of particular note as the U.S. debates whether to raise the debt ceiling or default on its promise to pay debts.
Edward III, in the course of fighting wars, borrowed heavily from two banking families in Florence, the Bardis and Peruzzis.
"The city of Florence went into a slump.
The Bardi and the Peruzzi had been the financial backbone of the republic, so the news that both houses were in difficulties had the impact of an earthquake....
Weird times peopled by weird personalities except I feel Isabella of France has been dealt a bit of a bum deal.
Not once but twice did that husband of hers shame the marriage and empty her coffers, no wonder she was in a mood with him.
Costain's survey of Britain under the Plantagenets, covers the years between 1272 and 1377 when three Edwards ruled England.
Edward I brought England out of the Middle Ages.
Edward II had a tragic reign but gave his country Edward III, who ruled gloriously, if violently.
I love English history and Costain's books are readable but, as another reviewer said, there is not a lot of information contained in this book to further enlighten a history buff.
That said, I enjoyed this tale of the Plantagenet Edwards.
What a vicious and bloody time in English history when England was either trying to subdue Scotland the Brave or fighting the French.
Hanging, drawing and quartering, and beheading seemed to be a daily occurance.
The story takes the reader through the last days of the Crusades to the murder of Edward II and ends with the greatest of the Plantagenets, Edward III.
An enjoyable and broadbrush history of England under the three consecutive Edwards of the Plantagenet dynasty, told with Costain's unique novelist flair.
I was not wrapped up in it quite as much as I was in the previous book, "The Magnificent Century," simply because there was no one man who stood out in these reigns the way Simon de Montfort did in Henry III's, but I did still enjoy it.
It's hard not to like Costain's writing and the way he brings the past to life.
I especially appreciate his touch when it comes to the humbler men of the times, the churchmen, scholars and architects who are so often brushed aside.
For his third book on the Plantagents, Costain does it again.
He continues to tell the story of the English Kings while adding interesting side notes on the period and the people of the realm.
One of my favorite side notes was his discussion of the origin and use of the button!
Additionally although he seems to favor King Edward, Costain does provides a very fair re-telling of the king's treatment of William Wallace.
I also enjoyed Costain's discussion of Mortimer's escape.
If you like his other books on this famous family, you will enjoy this too.
Crappy pop history. For an author described on the cover as one of the greatest storytellers of his time, he seems to get really excited about listing off the prices of objects and how much people/countries made per year. While that isn't necessarily bad history combining it with his random bouts of melodrama made me want to put down the book over and over again. The only reason why I kept up with it is because I'm trying to focus more and more on individuals within the broad historical scope of English and Medieval history.
Costain is a master storyteller. Although there are no sources and its not to be used as an academic study, his history of the Plantagenets is throughly enjoyable. One complaint is that unlike Henry II and his sons and the comically inept Henry III, I have less of a personal portrait of the Three Edwards than I did of the previous Plantagenets in Costain's series. It may just be due to a lack of sources, but I feel I really knew John and Henry III as people but I can't really say the same about Any of the Edwards.

I liked the history during the times of Edwards I, II, and III and the stories of their extensive families. The book is full of facts, is well written and easily understood, not like a text book. It is over 400 pages of solid text and could have easily been 1000 pages and easier to read. It took me about three weeks to read the first 100 pages. I will attempt it again some day though it was somewhat difficult to locate a copy.
Another easy read about the Plantagenets. I don't agree with the reviewer who said that it's always clear when the author is speculating, but I don't worry about it. History requires storytelling and synthesis, not just a discussion of whether a given fact is or is not a fact. Costain succeeds at creating a solid narrative from disparate events. Of course, someone else could have written a different story, and perhaps that would have been fun, too.
A great book for learning the important facts to keep you in the loop when reading HF of this tome period. It is a GREAT series for newbies to he time period! It reads well not at all dry for a NON-FICTION work and it would help you to have a better understanding while reading HF. All these books in the series can stand alone but it is good to start from t he first one and move through the years to have a complete understanding of the family PLANTAGENET!
An excellent, easy read about an era that is of great interest to me. I think I read Costain's The Silver Chalice many years ago - he has a great feel for the Middle Ages. I plan to read the other 3 books of this series (The Plantagenets)on my Kindle, after a few other books are tried - The Black Count, the new Jared Diamond book.
Although this is a history book, it is written in a descriptive way such that it really makes the people and places come alive. I thoroughly enjoyed this book.
Lightweight history is the best kind for me. Why the dainty treatment of the homosexual issue? Have we come a long way since 1300? Blood, guts, warfare, torture, resentment, paranoia...
This book, though it may be flawed, started my love of history. Thank you, dear dead Thomas B. Costain.
Although not near as good as The Last Plantagenets, Costain writes in a clear and concise manner that brings the period and the people to life.
Third in the series on Plantagenet kings, enjoyable and well written.
This was a pleasant read, covering the reigns of Edward I, II, and III.
In it, we meet the plucky Scots who defied the first Edward: William Wallace, the Black Douglas, and Robert the Bruce, whose story continues into Edward II’s, at Bannockburn.
For some reason, Costain considers Edward III to be England’s greatest king, yet I didn’t discern why.
Much of that dude's story concerns his extravagance.
Costain does wax proud over Crecy and the exploits of the Black Prince.
Along the way the reader will meet many outstanding figures of chivalry and the Edwards’ queens.
Scotland is afire with William Wallace, Robert the Bruce and Black Douglas, The Hundred Years War begins at Crecy and Poiters, where the age of knights dies at the behest of the longbow, the world kneels before the Black Death, and because this book seems to deal in threes, there is Edward the Black Prince.
If you've read Costain before you know what you're in for, an entertaining accounting of history, in which he may interject more flair, conjecture and foreshadowing than some readers may care for.
Overall, this is a great introduction to the Plantagenet family era.
Reads like fiction, full of knights and princesses and daring escapes and plots and possible witchcraft and battles and the like. Thomas B. Costain has a flair for storytelling that makes his writing very readable. Unlike most modern readers, he doesn't provide sources or use footnotes or a bibliography; I don't think he is the sort of author who is above inventing a few details. This is part of his charm, though. I definitely want to read more of his nonfiction books.
I liked the history.
Costain's series was popular for a reason: they're accessible, readable, and interesting.
I picked up The Three Edwards, the third in the series, because, strangely enough, the rest of Costain's Plantagenet series remains hard to find in the Hennepin County Library System.
This book looks at Edward I, Edward II, and Edward III, with side trips to meet William Wallace, Robert the Bruce, Phillip the Bad, and several knights whom, Costain theorizes, served as inspiration to Cervantes as he wrote Quixote.
Anyway, I will be reading the rest of the Plantagenet series, and am grateful to have this easy way to enter into the intricate history of England's monarchy.
This book tells the story of Edward I, Edward II, and Edward III, with additional stories into William Wallace, Robert the Bruce, Phillip the Bad, and several knights (Costain mentions that the knights may have been inspiration to Cervantes as he wrote Quixote).I have read other Costain books, so I expected historical fiction....this one was NOT.
I would classify it as 'popular history.' Costain relayed the events, added context, made some assumptions (clearly noted), gave it some literary pace and made the story entertaining.
Of course, what's not entertaining about the Plantagenets!!!!
I skimmed a lot, but I got the context and the important points about these 3 kings and I am grateful for the thoroughness that I could choose to delve into, or not.
