https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6310.Charlie_and_the_Chocolate_Factory
Tonight I just finished reading Charlie and the Chocolate factory with my son.
Its it a good book to read with your kids?
That said, allow me to tangent off and share my thoughts as a total bastard:If Willie Wonka actually hired workers and paid them a living wage, maybe Charlie Bucket wouldn't be starving to death in the first place.
*End Rant* In closing, let me share something that Oot said while I was reading him this book: "Dad, Willie Wonka is just a regular human, but he *is* a little bit of a wizard like you."
Charlie found it!”“Mr. Wonka looks like a clown!”“How come Oompa-Loompas only eat mashed up caterpillars?
EEW!”“Augustus Gloop got sucked up into the pipe because he was GREEDY.”“Will Violet ever be all right again or will she always be a blueberry?”“I want these: EATABLE MARSHMALLOW PILLOWSSo I can sleep on it and eat it little by little.
It’s fizzy like Coca Cola, right?”“But the funniest thing is that SQUARE CANDY THAT LOOKS ROUND!
Just skip it.”“I don’t think anything bad will happen to Charlie, because he’s good.
That’s because he’s GOOD.”“I want a chocolate candy and I want more books by Roald Dahl!”
Gene Wilder June 11, 1933 - August 29, 2016 - Goodbye Gene, you'll always be Willy Wonka to me.Charlie and the Chocolate Factory by Roald Dahl first published in 1964 was an immediate children’s classic and has inspired two film versions.I was surprised to see that neither of the films came close to Dahl’s text.
I was curious to see which film version came closest to Dahl’s vision, and I can surprisingly report that though they both come close to the original text, both rely heavily on artistic license and the kind of freedoms a director will often take when translating a literary work into film.Brilliant, quirky, and original this is a short work that a fan of the films, or of children’s fantasy literature should take the time to thoroughly enjoy.
The hard school of his poverty having made him virtuous, he manages to survive all the other children whose gross moral turpitudes cause them to be eliminated.Having won the right to become Willy Wonka's successor he wins himself a sequel adventure, but this involves travelling to the moon in an elevator rather than changing the employment practises of the factory and the introduction of a living wage.
Dark humour, sinister undertones, and playful whimsy blend together to create a classic children's literature that is lusciously sweet and delightfully disturbing! "Mr Willy Wonka is the most amazing, the most fantastic, the most extraordinary chocolate maker the world has ever seen!" Come now, dear readers! Behave and pull yourselves together! This is not the time for dillydallying. Willy Wonka is about to welcome five lucky kids into his mysterious factory! The caveat? Only five of these Golde
Dark humour, sinister undertones, and playful whimsy blend together to create a classic children's literature that is lusciously sweet and delightfully disturbing!
"Mr Willy Wonka is the most amazing, the most fantastic, the most extraordinary chocolate maker the world has ever seen!"
Willy Wonka is about to welcome five lucky kids into his mysterious factory!
The five chocolate bars could be anywhere around the world, over the counter, in any street, in any place where Wonka's confectioneries are sold!
So, get ready to unwrap those Wonka's Chocolate Nutty Crunch Surprise and Whipple-Scrumptious Fudge-mallow Delight!
I was planning on writing an extremely argumentative review explaining how sadistically vile Willie Wonka is, and how his god-like complex ruined the lives of four flawed children. But that seems insensitive at the moment. Instead I shall simply say that Gene Wilder dominated his performance as Willie Wonka. He carried all the outward charm, the charisma and the playfulness, but still managed to portray the suggestions of darkness that permeate this character’s heart. Wonka is far from a good man, though this book remains excellent and an extended allegory for many things. Full review to come.
Everything in this room is edible. Even I'm edible. But, that would be called canibalism. It is looked down upon in most societies.   Everyone knows this story. Little Charlie Bucket lives with his parents and both sets of grandparents. They all depend on his father for money and he just lost his job. They're running out of food, fuel and money when (just in time) Charlie find a golden ticket. This golden ticket allows him and two guardians into Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory for a tour. Charl
They're running out of food, fuel and money when (just in time) Charlie find a golden ticket.
This golden ticket allows him and two guardians into Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory for a tour.
Charlie and Grandpa Joe set off into the wild unknowns.
I really wonder what Dahl had against gum...My favorite part was  the actual tour and reading about all the crazy thing that Wonka had hidden in his factory.
For example, when Charlie and the gang running after Willy Wonka, he is able to read the labels on some of the doors they pass: 
However a flicker of hope for the child Charlie Bucket, the chocolate factory he passes twice a day going to school and coming back home, owned by the most successful candy maker in the world , marvelous Willy Wonka, is having a contest for children.
Five Golden Tickets wrapped in his scrumptious chocolate bars will get them a tour of the fabulous building , secrets inside never revealed to the public and a lifetime supply.
One of the first books I ever read. I wanted to watch the movie, but wasn't allowed to until I read the book. And so I did. And now, every few years, I want to again. It's been a long time. But who doesn't love chocolate and dreams and wishes and gifts? I think I may read this series... only looked at the first one.
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (Charlie Bucket #1), Roald DahlCharlie and the Chocolate Factory is a 1964 children's novel by British author Roald Dahl.
The story features the adventures of young Charlie Bucket inside the chocolate factory of eccentric chocolatier Willy Wonka.
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory was first published in the United States by Alfred A.
The book has been adapted into two major motion pictures: Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory in 1971, and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory in 2005.
The book's sequel, Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator, was written by Roald Dahl in 1971 and published in 1972.
I've been halfway following along with the movie and thinking about how awesome it was to be a kid- to dream of chocolate factories and eating a lifetime supply of chocolate with no fear of diabetes or a heart attack.
But I'm having the time of my life reading classic children's book out loud and feeling young again.
He now takes a book to school, in the car on short rides, to bed at night, and anywhere else he can.
I thought I read a lot of Roald Dahl as a kid, but there are a lot of books I missed apparently.
I was ten years old and already the magic was gone from the Tooth Fairy, the Easter Bunny, leprechauns, Santa Claus and his buddy the Krampus.
I would've traded in a half dozen Christmasses for that.For those few who haven't read the book or seen one of the movies, finding a golden ticket in a candy bar meant you got to visit Willy Wonka's mysterious chocolate factory, which had been closed to the public and rumored to be run by a madman.
Ah but to be serious, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory brought back the wonder and excitement of my earliest memories.
I'm giving the French version of this Rouald Dahl book 3 stars.
I thought the book lacked some pizzazz, which took me by surprise.
That was my second biggest reason for trying this book.Partly the tepid(but still honourable) score was due to the fact that I'd read the book so many times ago that the magic seemed to have worn away in these pages.
Look at me mangling Wilde.
The Great Glass Elevator is one of the least inspired books by Rouald Dahl.
Dahl was twelve times the man I am.
Look at what the moviemakers did to Fantastic Mr Fox!
Anyway, it is time I took a break, longer this time, of children's books.
I took a star off because of shaky footing with the portrayal of certain features in this book, such as recurring fatphobia (also present in his other books), and the weird savior portrayal of Wonka in relation to his using Oompa-Loompas basically as slave labor in exchange for food and not much else.
Maybe i'm reading too far into it, but it seems like a very unethical capitalistic scheme and instead of seeing Oompa-Loompas as people eager to make some chocolate, they seemed rather treated as inferior.
When news comes that the famous Willy Wonka will open his factory up for five children to tour, the world goes mad.
One by one, the children flock to something they cannot do without, slowing falling prey to the machinations of the tubes, trapdoors, temptations, and televisions within the factory, leaving Charlie and Grandpa Joe alone as the tour comes to a close.
Surely, Dahl will expound on that in the sequel, on which I will firmly place my hands like a gluttonous child looking for a golden ticket.
Oh, to be a child again!I will never forget growing up with Roald Dahl's books around me.
Augustus Gloop beamed with delight."That's the BIGGEST BOWL OF SKITTLES I'VE EVER SEEN!" he yelled."Indeed it is, indeed it is," said Willy Wonka proudly.
some of them are POISONED!""How many?" asked Violet Beauregarde."Only three," said Willy Wonka.
"But you wouldn't want to take chances, would you?"Augustus, who had been on the point of helping himself to some skittles, pulled his hand back."What's that over there?" asked Charlie.
Behind them was an even bigger bowl of candy!"Ah, those are my Deplorable Mints," said Willy Wonka.
Augustus reached out his hand again."Unfortunately," said Willy Wonka, "I have to admit that some of THEM are poisoned too.
He looked terribly disappointed."Not until you understand p-values," said Willy Wonka.
It has been MANY long years since I last looked at this book, but it all came back to me as soon as I turned to the first page and saw the illustrations.
I love the chants the Oompa-Loompas do after each bad kid gets his or her comeuppance.
My mind was showing me hundreds of itty-bitty Oompa-Loompas in the background doing wild synchronized hip-hop moves while chanting to a rapper rhythm: "Augustus Gloop!
"What on earth do you use whips for?" "For whipping cream, of course," said Mr. Wonka.
Not a single figure was whole: two rabbits had lost their ears and two their heads, the chicken's wings were broken, and the roof had come off the chalet.
But it turns out that melted chocolate makes very poor glue; it isn't sticky enough.
The operation was also complicated by the fact that it was impossible to hold the pieces directly, since they immediately started melting in our hands (it was a hot day).
Maybe it was a good thing that the chocolate melted so easily, and we could exploit that?
If you don't already know that Charlie inherits Willy Wonka's chocolate factory, then this review contains a spoiler."The meek shall inherit the earth".
Charlie Bucket is the epitome of meek.
In this story he doesn't inherit the earth but he does inherit Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory.
What a chocolate factory.
The inside kind of reminded me of the Land of Oz. Being in the business myself, I've toured a few candy factories in my day.
Believe me, none of them are even close to Willy Wonka's.
I like this book better than either of the Willy Wonka movies.

The tale starts with little Charlie, living in utter misery in something like a hermit’s hut, with four elderly people laying all day in the same bed… A blend of St. Anthony and Death and the Miser.
This is quite dreadful in itself, but hold on, it’s just an aperitif.Next, little Charlie and a bunch of other children win a devilish marketing sweepstake and are invited to visit Mr Wonka’s super-secret-chocolate-factory (picture, if you will, winning a ticket to visit the design vaults of Apple’s new “spaceship” campus).
Truth be told, since this is apparently a morality tale, except for Charlie perhaps, all the other kids are insufferable sinful brats.
خلاقیت رولد دال توی این کتاب واقعا مثالزدنیه. به نظرم اگه کسی دور و برش بچهای میشناسه که اندک علاقهای به کتاب داره، حتما باید این کتاب رو براش بخره و بهش بده که مطالعه کنه. البته نسل اینجور بچهها تقریبا منقرض شده و اکثر بچهها یه جورایی تبدیل به "مایک تیوی" شدن. اینکه این کتاب مناسب بچههاست، به این معنی نیست که افراد بزرگسال نمیتونن ازش لذت ببرن؛ من خودم از این کتاب خیلی لذت بردم.شوخطبعی آقای ونکا هم واقعا جالب بود.
خلاقیت رولد دال توی این کتاب واقعا مثال‌زدنیه. به نظرم اگه کسی دور و برش بچه‌ای میشناسه که اندک علاقه‌ای به کتاب داره، حتما باید این کتاب رو براش بخره و بهش بده که مطالعه کنه. البته نسل اینجور بچه‌ها تقریبا منقرض شده و اکثر بچه‌ها یه جورایی تبدیل به "مایک تی‌وی" شدن. اینکه این کتاب مناسب بچه‌هاست، به این معنی نیست که افراد بزرگسال نمیتونن ازش لذت ببرن؛ من خودم از این کتاب خیلی لذت بردم.شوخ‌طبعی آقای ونکا هم واقعا جالب بود.
How exciting to find a golden ticket and gain access as a VIP in Willy Wanka's mysterious chocolate factory.
The original film with Gene Wilder is a classic.
I like Johnny Depp he is an amazing actor but Gene Wilder was Willy Wanka in my book.
Did Roald Dahl have a twinkle in his eye when he named him Willy Wanka?
Over here in the UK it sounds like the word Wanker which, really means a long Walker.
Anyhow Roald Dahl books are fantastic and Charlie And The Chocolate Factory is up there with his best.
The original film is well worth the watch too.
There's always the fear that books won't live up to the hype, but I think this did.I loved Charlie and his Grandpa as the main protagonists: they were humble, and sweet, and smart.
I loved Willy Wonka: he was energetic and excited and brilliant and sarcastic as all hell.
And I loved how the positive characters really hated the negative characters!
I saw the original movie when I was really young so I don't remember it and I haven't seen the newer Johnny Depp movie, but I plan on watching both of them soon and I'll come back here and let you know what I think of them!
I must also mention here the book is absolutely worth reading even if you've seen the movie mostly because I think the movie glossed over the main theme of the book.
I whole heartedly agree, and find the "irony" funny that a book about getting kids to read more was made into a movie that is better known than the book.
I also recommend the Wilder version of the movie, but not in place of the book.
I also think this is a great story to read to children, as my 5 yr old can attest.
Amore per il cioccolato Il permissivismo sempre più dilagante da parte dei genitori costruisce veri e propri mostri, difettati nella sensibilità e scarsi di comprendonio: l'umiltà e la generosità pagano sempre.L'idea della fabbrica è un pretesto, incredibilmente suggestivo, sulla quale l'autore costruisce la semplice e importante morale di fondo.
عاشق اين فيلم بودم.
ايده ى كتاب و سبك نوشتنش جورى بود كه يكسره خوندمش و با اينكه تمام داستان رو ميدونستم و تك تك صحنه هاش رو حفظ بودم واسم كلى جذاب بود :)يه تشكرى هم بكنيم از تيم برتونِ عزيز بابت فيلمِ خوش ساختش :) البته فيلم يه تفاوت هايى با كتاب داشت.
مثلا اون قسمت كودكى ويلى ونكا و ماجراى پدرش ايده ى فيلم بود و در كتاب وجود نداشت ( گرچه وجودش تو فيلم خوب بود )و جانى دپ عزيز هم كه گل كاشته بود !اين اولين كتابى بود كه از رولد دال خوندم و حدس مى زنم از اين به بعد طرفدار سرسخت كتاب هاش ميشم !
Demorei bastante pra pegar esse livro pra ler achando que, por já ter visto os filmes e o musical muitas vezes, eu não encontraria nada de novo nessa história.
Mesmo sabendo tudo que ia acontecer na história, cada capítulo era uma surpresa muito gostosa.
O livro me deu uma visão muito diferente a respeito do Charlie e do Willy Wonka.
Ele não é o personagem bizarro, assustador e deprimido que eu achei que seria.
Me encantei por esse personagem de um jeito completamente novo.
Esse é um livro que eu recomendo pra todos, adultos e crianças!
The latest in my recent teaching of Dahl books...Yes I get that it's a beloved children's novel, and the whole weird Roald Dahl thing.
But what really bothered me is the lesson that the way to get out of poverty is to win the lottery.
But the subtext really is there: Get out of poverty by winning the lottery.
A funny book for kids of course, but even for a children's novel don't analyze it too much!Admittedly, maybe I'm overthinking this
I mean Augustus Gloop, who apparently had a nasty cold, completely contaminated the entire chocolate river, and then Wonka scoops out cup-fulls for Charlie and Grandpa Joe to drink, and they do.
I just don't like reading verse, no matter how clever it is, so I skimmed these sections.
:/Otherwise, I liked it a lot, though I actually expected it to be darker than it was.
This is my first time reading Dahl, despite owning a handful of his books, and I'd always heard that he wrote darker stuff for kids, which is awesome.
It allows people of all ages to m enjoy the book.
