https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7742.Ahab_s_Wife_or_The_Star_Gazer
Ick. I hated this book.
I felt that the author was basically living out her own fantasy of being adored by these historical and fictional men.
I mean, she even finds a way to work in Hawthrone and Emerson having a crush on her.
It's the kind of book where the heroine stands on the deck of ships (or ports, or lighthouses) with her hair blowing in the wind a lot.
All men want her.
She survives great hardship with her noble spirit intact.
And she has an intelligent, sensitive soul that is eventually recognized by the greatest minds of her generation.
Historical fiction or historical masturbation?
Freedom or "Liberty" seem to be the main theme (three women give birth to babies they name Liberty-two die in infancy and the last is born into slavery-ironic coincidence?...I think not).
This theme is explored through the historical issues of the time; slavery, religion, womens rights, sex and sexuality, marriage, madness and obsession, isolation and boredom.
For whatever reason, the main character Una,named after Spenser's character in the Fairie Queen (the virginal Una representing truth, or the true religion;only an english professor could come up with that one!) held my interest till all but the very end when I just really got tired of all the comings and goings and nonsensical ramblings.
But it's a sophisticated notion of tolerance & acceptance.
In one beautiful scene, Una--Ahab's wife--a "liberal" or "progressive" in religious matters, leanrs that her dear friend, the runaway slave Susan, believes that the Lord has led her to freedom.
At first Una worries that Susan will want to impose her faith, but she wakes the next morning to her accustomed acceptance, which embraces a dwarf slave bounty hunter and a gay neighbor as well.
The book embraces the ideas of antebellum America & includes cameos by several famous people, such as Margaret Fuller & Frederick Douglass.
of the book is a contrived, name-dropping tour of the transcendentalists, statesmen and scientists of the time.
OK, I'm getting a little snarky, but that's the way it felt: to coincidental and too contrived.I kept getting the feeling Naslund had no destination for her character, so she just wandered off through the political and intellectual landscape at the time and hoped readers would be so impressed with the array of local legends they wouldn't notice the complete lack of story and character.
A Book-of-the-Month Club main selection, with a huge first printing, it may well turn out to be Melville's worst nightmare: ''Moby-Dick'' rewritten by a woman as a conventionally constructed popular novel with an unflaggingly virtuous heroine and a happy ending.''Captain Ahab was neither my first husband nor my last,'' begins Naslund's heroine, Una Spenser, as she lies on her back on a Nantucket beach after Ahab's death, watching the clouds go by.
I am convinced she read Moby Dick one night, went to sleep and had one of those crazy meandering dreams where things she saw on the news and famous people from the past drifted in and out and she woke up the next morning and wrote EVERY SILLY DETAIL down and somehow either an editor never actually read it or if one did it was their first book and they were afraid to get the red pen out!
MAYBE if the 700 pages would heve been cut in half this actually would have been a good story.
I'm an English major who never read Moby Dick, but I did recognize the iconic characters on the periphery of Una's (Ahab's wife) epic. And what a story it is! Written in the vernacular of Herman Melville and Ralph Waldo Emerson, I learned much about 19th century Nantucket, whaling, and typical hardships of that time. Historic characters believably showed up in this novel, but Una was always central. I made a friend in her.
You probably will also not like Steinbeck, Dickens, Wharton, Bronte....As far as too much "stuff" included in the storyline, I would remind those folks that this is the story of many years in someone's life.
Those who felt Una's mindset for adventure was inappropriate for the time period might like to explore Transcendentalism more, and perhaps read some accounts of women in the Civil War, fighting alongside their husbands, posing as their brothers.
She then tells us about the character's life, and includes the mentioned husbands.
If you like digging and picking things apart, you will love this book.
Well, maybe not this book...Almost nine months ago, my book club picked this one as the February read, so I had plenty of time to read it.
Plenty of time to read it, no hurry.
Finally, a scant nine days before the club meeting, I started reading.There's a WHAM!
The women in my book club loved it enough to pick it a SECOND time, even though most of them had already read and discussed it in 2001.I just couldn't help wishing that Una had said, "Screw you, Ahab, you old fart!" and taken off with the runaway slave instead.
When I started reading this book, I was thinking, "How could anyone give this any fewer than 4 to 5 stars?!?!" The writing was so beautiful and the world through the main character's eyes, although difficult, was beautiful and new and she was chameleon-esque changing and adapting to every day that she faced.I was fascinated through most of it, wondering at how a person (even a fictional one) could continue to live life so far removed from her 'self'; her ego.
She truly discovered the land, the landmarks and the people around her in a way that is usually reserved for the eyes and minds of small children.And then the last...oh....
Of course I had to quote the first line.This book is derived from a single, glancing reference in Moby-Dick to the beautiful young woman Captain Ahab has married.
It’s couched in the Moby-Dick style, from the choppy chapters to the capital R Romantic school of writing and its dedication to individual power in the face of society, to natural ideals, to characters who are both individuals and avatars.As derivative fiction, this is brilliant.
It’s fanfiction to a particular work, to a place and a time, to the female experience, to history itself.
It was like reading someone's diary.
No suspense, unless you don't know the end of Moby Dick, no ebb or flow.
It just reads, slowly and laboriously for 666 pages in first person of a woman that doesn't exist.
If this were about a real person, I would consider this valid.
But instead we have an extraordinary, direct-minded, publicly correct unrealistic character who just manages to encounter by accident many famous real and fictional characters.
I kept hoping she would do something mean spirited like tell the dwarf to go find a woman or cease talking to her neighbor because he was a too into china cups.
This book became my addition for quite some time.
The sensory experience of the printed word was at times emotionally wrenching and at times dread dull, as you might expect when sitting down to listen to the life story of a legend.
Her account was as brutally honest as a personal diary and I suspect any reader would identify not so much with the actions but with the deeply private inner experience recorded here.
Approach this book with an open mind and allow it to speak to you, "wherever" you are, oft forgotten life lessons are offered for private reflection here.
Yet, looking up – into the clouds – I conjure him there: his gray-white hair; his gathered brow; and the zaggy mark…”This was the beginning of the book and the words were more or less meaningless to me then but I continued; well they were just words and so I started skim-reading, came across “pregnancy” and read:“I did not consult Ahab about my decision to spend my pregnancy in a rough Kentucky cabin, with my mother, instead of staying in the gracious home of a captain’s wife on Nantucket.
But I wrote him, of course, and sent the letter after him on the ship called the Dove, so he could imagine me alright.”More skim-reading and nothing of interest, and really I should have followed Melki’s advice in the last two paragraphs of her review:“I didn't HATE this book, and it is NOT terrible.
I particularly enjoyed what I would guess you'd call the book's meta-physics - the way it takes side-tracks to discuss time, loss, maturity, life, etc.
These sections were thought-provoking, yet didn't take away from the book's plot or flow.Ahab's Wife is a novel about the life of the Pequod captain's wife, so there's a lot of Moby Dick in here.
It's an interesting look at the options available for women at the time through the eyes of a woman who chooses to make her own options and her own life.
It's also an interesting look at 19th century life and some famous authors and philosophers from that time period.
(One irony is that Una's maiden name in the book is "Spenser".) Even though I never got immersed in the storyline and Naslund's romanticizing of Captain Ahab was mildly irritating, I couldn't put the book down for admiration of her skill as a writer.
Another peeve is that I felt the ending was rushed and Ishmael crammed in, not gently introduced and woven in nicely like most other characters in the book.
I would have liked to have seen more of Frederick spread out throughout the book.In conclusion, I leave Ahab's Wife, or The Star-Gazer with mixed feelings.
The author takes a minor character out of the classic Moby Dick and writes a complete story about her. Una's 2nd husband in the early 19th century is Captain Ahab. This is an historically accurate, if farfetched, story of a free thinking young woman. Learn about the era, the difficulties, the religions adn superstitions, the sea and its impact on the New Englanders' lives, etc. A good read.
Una goes inland to meet her mother but there receives another letter telling her that her mother has miscarried and returned home.
Three whaling boats are saved with Kit, Giles, and Una being on one of them.
They get picked up by a passing merchant ship where Giles throws himself overboard and Kit goes mad.
Captain Ahab marries Una and Kit. Kit continues to go mad off and on.
Charlotte eventually leaves Mr. Hussey to go and find Kit amongst the Indians.
Una actually marries the surivor, Ishmael, whom she had seen on the merchant ship when she was rescued with Kit and Giles.
I would say that only 1/3 to 1/4 of the book actually spends time on Una's marriage with Ahab.
Naslund has a wonderful way with words, but after reading for a while, I felt that she was trying too hard to be lyrical and existential.
I don't know the author, but if this is a statement of her personality, we probably wouldn't connect.Then I had problems with the main character herself.
I had the sense that if I tried to engage any of these characters in a discussion of beliefs and ideas, the only person who would actually listen would be Una's mother.
That's way before Ahab even enters the story, but c'est la vie, poppet.Written with lovely prose, and a with extensively wandering storyline for the protagonist, who ends up all over the place in her adventures.
To Jeter's credit, I seriously considered reading another novel by her because the prose was really well written and her characters were compelling (with the last quarter/end as a dismaying exception), but have since convinced myself not to.
This book is traveling from Canada to Brazil, following to Sweden and then back to Canada. There are not enough words to describe such wonderful book, one of the best books I read recently. The author has a lyrical way of writing and we are strongly immersed into the story.
(Can anyone say "too many"?) They're thrown in there in such an offhand manner sometimes, like Naslund had a checklist: Hmm, I haven't got rape in here anywhere yet.
In the end, the biggest irritation with this book is the same one I have about Ayn Rand: it's all about me.
(Not me; the mes in the books.) Una ("one"; that should be a tipoff right there) explores the heights and depths of human experience, and what she comes up with is, it's all about her: her likes, her thoughts, her moral compass (pointing a little south of true north in a lot of ways), her preeminence.
I learned that sailor's historically wore golden earrings because wherever they died the earring would pay for their burial.I learned about survival of one sort or another: sustenance living on a remote farm in Kentucky; sustenance living at the site of a lighthouse; sustenance living on a whaler and sustenance living while stranded on a raft with two men you love and others.
The cabin, the lighthouse, the boarding house, the fine home and the beach cottage.
This novel was written based upon a tiny passage in MOBY DICK.
I must go back and read MOBY DICK which I loved and also a complex read.
I loved the build-up of this novel - knowing that Una will eventually marry Ahab, but not knowing how that will come about made for a great sense of anticipation.
However, once Big Things Happen and Una meets Ahab, I lost a little of that sense of anticipation and lost a little interest, even though I still thought the characters and plot were compelling.
I also felt a little hit over the head with the Moby Dick allusions - which would probably fly right past someone who hadn't read Melville's novel (and you can definitely read this one without knowing anything about Moby Dick).
I just moved to an ocean-side city in Eastern Massachusetts, so this book was a fun companion to this time of settling in near the sea.I have to agree with the reviewers who faulted this book for following the "strong, beautiful woman that all the men fall in love with" trope and for its "Forest Gumpian" qualities.
Una's mystical experience recounted in chapters 126-128 is as beautiful and powerful a meditation on existential crisis and spiritual transcendence as any I have ever read, and I have read many.I am glad that I took my time reading Una's story.
Awful book--- the author is trying way too hard to be a haughty, serious writer.
The sentence structure is ridiculous - the characters flat and the end result is a scattered jumble of words put together in an attempt to impress rather than tell a story.
It ends up like the worst writing assignment gone bad-- the author has no filter, no ability to focus.
The most positive aspect of this book is that it forces you to appreciate well-written stories that hang together and engage the reader.
Just falls flat & one of the worst books ever!Don't waste your time!
I did it! I finished it! I liked this book, but I don't see how it could be a bestseller. It feels far too peculiar and dense and poetic (which partly bothered me) to be appeal to your average reader. It's an impressive book, nonetheless. I obviously need to read Moby Dick now.
One of the men, a midget dressed as a wolf, sniffs around aggressively, but Una manages to hide the girl under her bed and make a friendship that lasts the rest of her life.A few days later, she watches her young friend escape across the ice in a wonderful allusion to Eliza in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" – just one of hundreds of references to other books in this leviathan novel.
(A fully annotated version of "Ahab's Wife" would be 50 pages longer, but even more fun.)Standing alone in the snow by the new graves of her mother and baby, Una thinks, "The world was a vast whiteness barred by the black trunks and limbs of trees....
I'd like to believe I'm nearly as strong, forgiving, compassionate, thoughtful, open & positively persistent as my identically named sister is in this moving novel which, interestingly, pays tribute to the strength of women during a time when they had to take triumph if they sought it.
:) If you seek a story full of thought-provoking ideas, and a remarkably strong heroine in an unlikely time & place, this is the perfect book.
Like a dear friend's visit, I wanted to savor so many points & parts of her life that I preferred to draw this read out over a longer time, rather than see it end quickly.
One of the things I most liked about this take on the tale was the way several real life people were included in Una Ahab's telling of the story.
Three of them are writers who are required reading I'm many schools; i.e. Henry James, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Nathaniel Hawthorne.
But there were three characters who whose names I didn't actually recognize, all three were close friends of Una; and there was just something about the passion in which the author described them that made we wonder.
I said earlier there were four names I recognized instantly.
The fourth was Frederick Douglass.
We The People deserve better that that !
