https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769955.At_the_Waterworks
"The Magic School Bus at the Waterworks" is part of a prize-winning series of children's non-fiction science books written by Joanna Cole and illustrated by Bruce Degen.
Awarded the Boston Globe-Horn Honor Award, it is a perfect way to teach important science concepts and ideas to intermediate readers, while keeping their attention and interest.
On one level, the reader follows the adventures of Ms. Frizzle and her science students as they experience the wonders of the world of water on their magic school bus.
On the other level, the reader has the opportunity to learn important facts about the scientific properties and concepts relating to water.
1. Ms. Frizzle takes her students on an exciting field trip on a more then special school bus.
Mr. Frizzle and her class explore the water cycle.
Ms. Frizzle shows her students the wonders of how water can change from a liquid to a gas.
I would introduce this book to the class during a science lesson on water or when introducing the forms a liquid can take.4.
This would be a great book for students to read and share with their friends.6.
This would be a fun book to read aloud to the class and ask questions related to the topic.7.
I really liked these books as a kid, and how could you not? I mean, there is something incongruous about learning science when the school bus is actually magic. Disagree with me? It's in the actual title, so it's not an opinion as much as it is a fact according to Joanna Cole. Though one could argue that quantum physics is involved and those people might be right. Eh, I'm not that invested so go talk to Sheldon Cooper about it if you really have a problem.
So this is the first Magic School Bus book, and it's not as tongue and cheek as some of the other ones, but it's still really fun and cool. Starting to think my oldest child wishes the Friz was his mom.
This book series is wonderful for teaching younger children.
I think that these books are fun and very informational.
I chose this Magic School Bus in particular because I thought it would be a fun way to teach about the water cycle and I thought this would be a good book for the students to have in the classroom.
I enjoyed this book and feel that the students would also enjoy learning about the water cycle through this story.
The pages had good illustrations and the words were not too big for younger readers.
Magic School Bus books were always great reads for anyone. I remember loving them when I was a kid, so rereading and remembering them were so fun! I would use this as a read aloud for younger students, or a self read for students that are older. I love these books because they teach lessons in them as well. If it's possible for me to work the book with the lesson we are going through, it would be fun to watch the movie/show that goes along with that particular book. I give this book a 5 out of 5!
This book is about a class that is learning about water and they go on a trip in their school bus. The bus transforms into a magic bus and takes them through the rain and into the reservoir for the city where they learn about the different parts of the waterworks system.I like this book. It is a fun story and the pages include many actual facts about water and the waterworks and the reservoir. The facts are included in a way that is fun to read for the children.(Fantasy)
This was much more of a nostalgic read, since I remember this series (book and cartoon) from when I was in primary school. It's a good introduction to the water cycle and public works for primary students, making use of a story to explain facts about the basics of how water functions and how we use it in public infrastructure.
A wonderful way to view the water cycle from evaporation through the collection in a reservoir and the purification process and finishing up with use in a home. As usual, Ms. Frizzle makes learning fun. I would buy this for my classroom if we had a reservoir system. We have to teach about the aquifer here.
I wish every child had a teacher like Ms. Frizzle - she is unique. She inspires her students - and a love (or at least an appreciation of) science - which is much needed in this day and age. The book is informative and colorful. It's really no wonder the series as remained popular for so many years.
The Magic School Bus books are fun and exciting to read but they also teach science topics. These books are great for readers who like to use their imaginations and they are learning other subjects at the same time.
The Magic School Bus: At The Waterworks is a creative science fiction book.
It was written by Joanne Cole and illustrated by Bruce Degen, and has won two awards.
To their surprise, their "boring" field trip turns into a magical surprise!
The overall idea of The Magic School Bus is creative.
The illustrations are detailed and the colors are bright and colorful.
The elementary students get to take scientific field trips and have a magical experience, literally.
The readers are learning about science, and get to sort of take a trip with Ms. Frizzle and her class.
The illustrations are different than I remember from my childhood but it is amazing to go back and read this to my kids after I remember reading them in my youth. Great introduction to the water system and water cycle.
Cute book, great illustrations. Teaches children about water, that learning can be fun, and even the most boring of topics (water) can be fascinating.Let's just ignore that fluoride sentence.Note: I want an octopus dress.
Spell nostalgia! I still have a couple more I'll save to reading later. ;)2017 Pop Sugar Reading Challenge: A book that you've got from a used book sale - 4/52
Great book for children.
Ms. Frizzle takes her skeptical students on an adventure to understand the water cycle and filtering systems. Such a fun informational read!
fun book about how water goes to the city
Fantasy #1: It's the magic school bus! These are so much fun for kids and even adults. This book is an excellent way to teach the water cycle to elementary students.
I enjoyed this book because I like Magic School Bus books. I also enjoyed this book because I like water. I also enjoyed this book because this book had a lot of water in it.
It was ok
SCIENCE FICTION- A book about a teacher who shrinks her class so small that they are able to flow through the pipes of the water system in their town! A great way to teach kids about the water system, but also kind of boring.
Great for children.
The one piece I was hoping for would have been a more detailed explanation of what causes rain because the book seems to skip over that, but it incorporates much more.In this first installment of The Magic School Bus science series, Ms. Frizzle meets her class at the beginning of the school year.
It's fitting that this book would be the introductory book in this popular science series because it takes a familiar and possibly mundane (albeit significant) topic--water--and turns it into a children's adventure story.
The Magic School Bus at the Waterworks by Joanna Cole is a fun loving book about a new classroom of students coming into Ms. Fizzles class thinking she is an absolute nut making them do wierd school projects while other classes get to go on fun field trips to the zoo.
At the end of the book, there was an "authors note" for the "serious students." In this section, the author elaborated on the facts that were displayed on some of the various pages.
Book Title: The Magic School Bus At the Waterworks by Joanna Cole & Bruce DegenShort Description of the Book: In this story, Cole & Degen discuss the different uses of water and the things that are in water.
This is a great book to teach text features in stories.Focus: Informational features I would use in a mini lesson:1).
After introducing the book: The Magic School Bus at the Waterworks, we discuss the different information that we learned from reading the book.
We will begin researching information to write about.3.
Students will then begin their writing.4.
Students will conference with the teacher about their writing.5.
The Magic School Bus at the Waterworks by Joanna Cole is a great informational book about the water cycle.
I love the Magic School Bus books.
However, I think this would be a great book for children to learn about the water cycle.
This part tells the children what is real and what was added to the story for fun so they do not develop misconceptions about the water cycle.
Overall I think this is an awesome and fun way to get kids excited about learning new things, like the water cycle.
In Joanna Cole's book "The Magic School Bus at the Waterworks" it supplies efficient information about the water cycle in a class field trip in Ms. Frizzle's class.
To prepare the students for the trip, they were required to spend a whole month in the library and find ten interesting facts about water.
The students actually experience the water cycle themselves.
I think this is a great series to use and to help explain certain concepts like the water cycle.
I really enjoyed reading this book and actually found out some facts that I didn't know about the water cycle!
SummaryThe Magic School Bus at the Waterworks by Joanna Cole is the first in a series about a wacky teacher named Ms. Frizzle and her class of students.
The book ends with a cliff hanger as Ms. Frizzle introduces their next topic; volcanoes.CritiqueI remember loving the Magic School Bus books as a kid.
The topic is defined and emphasized throughout the book and it sets up the next topic perfectly at the end to keep kids coming back for more.ResponseAs a teacher, I would definitely utilize the Magic School Bus series as a part of my teaching repertoire.
From here, they travel through the water cycle, to see how one particle of water goes from stage to stage.
Beginning in the clouds as liquid, they travel to the earth through precipitation.
Through rain, snow, or sleet, the water droplet travels down to oceans and streams, and any other form of water in earth.
This water vapor eventually turns back into a liquid and returns to a cloud.
It gives students a better and clear understanding of the path of a water particle, which will help them understand the larger picture of the entire water cycle.
