https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25855506-adulthood-is-a-myth
Literally my entire life.
of the TWENTY-SEVEN books i'd read in the GR awards semifinals, this is the only one that won in its category. so congratulations, even though i don't consider this a graphic novel as such, more like a collection of unrelated cartoons better placed in the humor category, but who's gonna split genre-hairs? although i'm pretty confident i have at least 10-15 years on this cartoonist, there's still so much in this book that resonated with me. which probably reflects very poorly on me - it's one thi
or "don't buy another stuffed animal, you old fart."and sarah andersen seems like a soulmate in those regards.
i'd much rather hide out and be cozy, and while i'm a little regretful that i don't take advantage of all the fine cultural things new york has to offer, i feel a little "been there, done that," and now i'm all old and groggy.
but this book makes me feel okay about myself.
so i'm going to keep living the way i been living and no one's gonna stop me.this book also highlights a lot of girl-woes that made me shout, "i know, right?" like the way the fashion industry and the lingerie industry just don't seem to be able to work together
I am extremely tired of the word "relatable"... BUT BOY IF THERE EVER WAS A MOMEMT FOR IT!This collection of webcomics had me actually laughing out loud, had me saying "YES!", had me pointing out page after page to my boyfriend. It's silly and cute, but also deeply truthful to the fears and elations of people who live online. I loved it, and will definitely be picking up her second volume!
There were so many things I related to in this book but I'm only going to share a few.
↑ Okay, so I'm going to show y'all pictures of SOME of my stuffed animals that take over my bed (I sleep on the couch anyway) and some of my dog, Lucy's stuffed animals.
WE LOVE THE STUFFED ANIMAL!I have seriously donated garbage bag upon garbage bags of stuffed animals to the children's home though.
I never wanted kids and I don't have them and it's too late for all of that and I'm fine with it =) Okay the wifi thing is self explanatory!
and the book thing, we all get that one!
This whole book is my spirit animal. Side effects may include extreme nasal pain from snorting liquids up your nose while laughing or embarrassment from snorting very loudly in public. ARC provided by Netgalley
(really)Real women know how to cook/clean up everything without complaining (you don’t say)Real women want kids, too (back off)Real adults always wake up early (as if)Real – *internal screaming**INTERLUDE**/INTERLUDE*The truth is, I respect all the checklists of my definition of adulthood and it’s enough for me : I take care of my loved ones, pay my bills, work my best for my pupils, respect the law, assume myself, as in, I am independent.
Being an adult isn’t about fulfilling some aged fantasies in which women are sort of superheroes who raise kids, are sexy, work like hell and fucking smile all the time because HEY!
Adulthood Is a Myth documents the beauty of wasting an entire weekend on the internet, the unbearable agony of holding hands on the street with a gorgeous guy, dreaming all day of getting home and back into pajamas, and wondering when, exactly, this adulthood thing beginsThis book was great because it made me feel lighter while reading, but ultimately it didn't do much towards building a full picture of happiness. And I probably won't remember most of the instances after putting it down.
Adulthood Is a Myth documents the beauty of wasting an entire weekend on the internet, the unbearable agony of holding hands on the street with a gorgeous guy, dreaming all day of getting home and back into pajamas, and wondering when, exactly, this adulthood thing beginsThis book was great because it made me feel lighter while reading, but ultimately it didn't do much towards building a full picture of happiness.
But Adulthood Is a Myth managed to put a smile on my face, which is always a bonus.*Note: I'm an Amazon Affiliate.
If you're interested in buying Adulthood Is a Myth, just click on the image below to go through my link.
Buy a Coffee for nat (bookspoils) with http://Ko-fi.com/bookspoils
If you think you are exceptional, a magical person, someone whose heart is pure, and thus can do no wrong; if you have lived a life filled with success, self-confidence, good skin, clean rooms, an excellent wardrobe, top-notch grooming, and a positive outlook; if you are a person with straight teeth (all of them), thick hair, (and none sprouting in unwanted places), excellent carriage, and toned muscles, I have two things to say to you.
Sarah Andersen - image from EsquireAdulthood is a Myth is a cartoon book on the trials and tribulations of being a young female in 21st century America.
And I read this book while enjoying a Milka & Oreo chocolate.Sarah Andersen does a great job at showing the hardships of girls and women while keeping it light and funny.
I kept showing some of the drawings to my husband and he was impressed and could not believe someone would write about me.
If you liked Allie Brosh's Hyperbole and a Half: Unfortunate Situations, Flawed Coping Mechanisms, Mayhem, and Other Things That Happened, you'll love Adulthood is a Myth: A "Sarah's Scribbles" Collection.*I thank Sarah Andersen, Andrews McMeel Publishing, and Netgalley for this copy in exchange for an honest review.
Is adulthood an exciting new challenge for which you feel fully prepared? Ugh. Please go away. I was writing down some thoughts for two reviews, one of a Mishima book and the other of The Bell Jar, but at the moment, I don’t feel like dedicating so much time to that kind of introspection, since in my case, reviewing a book is almost never writing a simple summary. So I will deal with all those books next year, while focusing on other works which are also existentially complex but from a differe
I was writing down some thoughts for two reviews, one of a Mishima book and the other of The Bell Jar, but at the moment, I don’t feel like dedicating so much time to that kind of introspection, since in my case, reviewing a book is almost never writing a simple summary.
I mean, after the Best Poetry debacle, it’s still nice to be able to cast some votes considering that, in general, the most recently published book I have read might have been in the bookshop for twenty years.
This year I spent time on situations that, in the end, didn’t deserve my attention and a million chances.
Cuánto me alegra que Sarah Andersen esté en nuestro planeta.
My Rating: 5 blazing stars!This is the first graphic novel I have ever read.
I have always thought comics and graphic novels are for kids - with all the pictures and just one to two sentences and bubble texts.
How wrong I was!
(Yeah yeah, I accept.
Don't give me those nasty looks).And I am glad that "Adulthood is a Myth" is the one I read as my first ever graphic novel to remember it as an enjoyable experience.
[image error]I would recommend this comic to everyone whether you like graphic novels or not.
You won't regret reading it.
(I have anyway.) But this has a) more, and b) it's just the kinda book you're going to want to slap in extrovert-highly-efficient-adulting-friends'-faces occasionally, okay?
My favourites were for sure:• the ones about bookworms• the ones about introverts needing to socialise for, like, 5 seconds and then introvert for 9 years• washing clothes...or not washing them...for hundreds of years...• pg 85: which basically was a very VERY accurate 6 block comic representation of the internet• I was cracking up• I WAS LAUGHING THIS WHOLE BOOK IT WAS GLORIOUS.The only con was: it's too short.
I could look at these highly relatable comics all day.
«این سارا اندرسن قشنگ از رو زندگی من میکشه!»«زندگینامه ی منه گمونم!»«انگار آدم داره فیلم زندگی خودش رو می بینه!!»«بخدا اینا دوربین مخفی تو خونههای ما کار گذاشتن که تونستن اینقد واقعی کمیک درست کنن!!»این ها بخشی از ابراز احساسات هاییه که خوانندگان این کمیک کردن! توی اینترنت، از گوگل پلاس تا گروه های تلگرامی هر جا که تونستم بخش هایی از کتاب رو گذاشتم، و همه جا خواننده ها بالاتفاق با این دخترک بانمک کارتونی همذات پنداری کردن، که به قول نویسنده ش "لحظات ترسناک و ضایع زندگی مدرن" رو به نمایش میذاره.
«این سارا اندرسن قشنگ از رو زندگی من میکشه!»«زندگی‌نامه ی منه گمونم!»«انگار آدم داره فیلم زندگی خودش رو می بینه!!»«بخدا اینا دوربین مخفی تو خونه‌های ما کار گذاشتن که تونستن اینقد واقعی کمیک درست کنن!!»این ها بخشی از ابراز احساسات هاییه که خوانندگان این کمیک کردن!
مجموعه کمیک های "بزرگسالی افسانه است" از "سارا اندرسن" قبل از این به صورت جداگانه روی اینترنت منتشر می شدن.
به رغم ادعای طنزآمیز نویسنده که "این کتاب هیچ ارتباطی با زندگی شخصی نویسنده نداره!"، به قدری جزئیات کتاب ملموسه، که آدم لحظه ای شک نمی کنه که از روی لحظات واقعی زندگی کشیده شده ن.
(اسم هری پاتر و کودک نفرین شده رو شنیده بودم فقط!) و دیدم این دختر هم بین کتاب های برگزیده است!
Awkwardly relatable, comical, and quirky!These simple scribbles by Sarah Andersen are a precious gift for the socially awkward, eccentric introverts, and voracious bookworms!
With these gag strips, Andersen presents endearing illustrations that subtly pokes fun at all things grown-ups do.
It's simple and straightforward, but if you let your guard down even for just a bit, you'd be surprised at how these comic strips would be able to disarm you with its wit as well as all the hilarious and hysterical moments (literally!).
From embarrassing situations to paycheck handling to social anxiety, this is a daring debut from the perspective of an introverted bibliophile.
یکی از بهترین کمیک هایی بود که توی عمرم دیدم و خوندمش ^_^ فوق العلاده با نمک خصوصا جاهایی که تفاوت بین یک دختر نوجوون با جوون رو نشون میده ولی جالبش اینجاست که همیشه یه چیزی هست که یک دختر توی هر سنی بهش اهمیت بده و به اصطلاح سوزنش روش گیر کنه :))سوزن شخصیت کارتنی این کتاب روی چیزهای مشترکی که باهاش دارم حسابی گیر کرده بود و برای همینه که عاشقش شدم مثل :من نمیخوام بزرگ شم !
:))من فکر میکنم یکی از دلایلی که تقریبا بیشتر آقایون در گودریدز کمتر از خانم ها این کمیک رو دوست داشتن اینه که صرفا زندگی یک دختر رو نشون میداد و خب کاملا طبیعی هست که حسش نکنن و ارتباطی با شخصیت دخترونه ی کتاب برقرار نکنن ..
Adulthood Is a Myth: A "Sarah's Scribbles" Collection, Sarah Andersenعنوانها: بزرگسالی آش دهنسوزی نیست؛ بزرگ شدن خواب و خیاله؛ نویسنده: سارا اندرسون؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هجدهم ماه مارس سال 2017 میلادیعنوان: بزرگسالی آش دهنسوزی نیست؛ نویسنده: سارا اندرسون؛ مترجم: مرجان حمیدی؛ تهران، کتابسرای تندیس؛ 1396؛ در 107 ص؛ مصور، فروست: خط خطی های سارا؛ شابک: 9786001823251؛ موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی و تصویری نویسندگان امریکا - قرن 21 معنوان: بزرگ شدن خواب و خیاله؛ نویسنده: سارا اندرسون؛ مترجم: آروشا زاده امیدی؛ تهران، منتشران اندیشه؛ 1396؛ در 107 ص؛ مصور، فروست: خط خطی های سارا؛ شابک: 9786007485668؛ ا. شربیانی
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Does the following image remind you of yourself???? If so, this is probably a book for you. While I’m 1,000 maybe not exactly the target demographic for the Sarah’s Scribbles collection, I still found Adulthood is a Myth to be nearly completely relatable and maybe that I should get a restraining order against the author because it seems like she might be stalking me. I mean, this little diddy covered everything from my laundry habits .
I mean, this little diddy covered everything from my laundry habits .
(She also has a hilarious one about reaching in your purse when someone asks if you have [insert whatever random item] and 582 tampons come flying out.)If you’re a dude, you may not be able to fully relate, but it’ll shine some light on why your wife hates you more than usual a couple days a month.While this little book was by no stretch of the imagination a huge life changer, it was certainly amusing and I would definitely recommend it.
Re-reading this just made me realise just how much I love this book, forever one of my favourites. I don't know how it's possible but I got a whole new experience reading this, even if I've read it before.This was so fun and like so relatable. It felt like i was reading the story of my life.You should read this book if you're a;1. An introvert2. A book lover3. A human beingNeedless to say, I think everyone should read this. It's fun, fast, entertaining and most importantly relatable.
Never have I related to a book so strongly!
I read it in one sitting and laughed out loud several times, and I definitely took a picture of a few of these comics to send to friends or post on snapchat.
As an anxious bookworm, I really connected with parts of it.The only thing I'm not fond of is there's a few times that this book falls into the mentality of "I hate people!!
I want to be alone all the time because I hate every single person I know!!" and I feel like that's such a Tumblr 2012 mentality that I don't find funny or edgy anymore.
در اکثر صفحات این کتابِ تازه مشهور شده، بهت زده به این شکلک ها و نوشته ها خیره میشدم و با خودم میگفتم چرا همه لذت بردن و من نه؟به هر حال سلایق متفاوته...فقط چند صفحشو دوس داشتم و مخصوصا اولی که ماجراش تا سنگ قبر هم ادامه پیدا میکنه:)123
I've seen her comics floating around on social media for years, laughed at them, wondered how such simplistic drawings could be so relatable, and then moved on without giving it so much as a second thought.
Adulthood Is A Myth isn't so much a comic book in that it doesn't tell a continuous story, but it is a book of comics - they are unrelated but well worth reading at once.
What did I think?: I'm a big comic book fan, and while this isn't necessarily telling a story it is cute and fun which is exactly what I was looking for.
خیلی خیلی خیلی قشنگ بود :))) احساس می کنم هرچی بگم اسپویلش میکنم کتابیه که باید بخونیدش و بخندیدچون خیلی باهاش همذات پنداری می کردم و خیلی جاها درکش میکردمواقعا طنز بود، هم اجتماعی هم خنده داربعدن نوشت: از خوندن این کتاب بسیار ذوق زده ام.
4.5 "Fun-But-Real" StarsFirst of all, I’d like to thank my dear friend Mohadese for this recommendation!
So thank you hun!
I had so much fun with this book!
It was fun but at the same time it was sooo real!
Oh, God I really laughed out laud at this book.
I recommend it to all of you guys!
All of you can read it and I’m sure all of you will enjoy it.
It just takes 2 hours of your time, tops!
But it’s really worth reading!
از لحظه ای که شروعش کردم دائم صفحه هارو نگاه می کردم که فقط تموم نشه!
می دونم چی میگی!" و یه اتفاق یادت می افتادقدرت عجیبش برای اینکه با صفحه های کم و سیاه سفیدش لبخند از رو لبم محو نشه باعث شد به سختی بهش پنج رو ندم با اینکه بعضی وقتا وظیفه یک کتاب شاید فقط همین حس خوبهکتاب تجربه های روزمره و در ظاهر بی اهمیت مشترک بین معمولی های عجیب دنیاست، مخصوصاً دخترها.
تجربه "بزرگ" شدنی که انگار هیچوقت نمی رسهاگر می خواستم تیکه هایی که دوست داشتم رو بزارم باید همش رو می گذاشتم، برای همین کل فایل رو گذاشتمhttp://s9.picofile.com/file/827759757...95.9.17
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that if you are socially awkward, you're going to feel identified with this book.Sarah Andersen captures in simple and funny comics, the essence of being awkard and what growing up is all about......avoiding old classmates!
Hilarious, relatable short book! :D
I am again completely unable to understand all the hype, all the fuss, all the praise, and most definitely cringe when savoring the thought of Adulthood Is a Myth being the winner of Graphic Novels & Comics category here at Goodreads.
That ain't right, and it ain't an attack toward this work, but an attack toward Goodreads categories.Adulthood Is a Myth is not something that really resonates with me.
I like being by myself as much as I ever have, which is pretty much all the time.
And it is pretty much this:Yeah, I just don't get Adulthood Is a Myth, but being an adult means I do not even have to.
Have you ever been in that kind of situation where you felt too awkward or embarrassed and all you wanted is to be buried alive?
One.When I was a kid the thing I most wanted was to grow up, now I regret a little having wished that, you know?
*Me "trying" to accept adulting*First stop, my life communication.As a boy with many trust issues when I was growing up, I was the worst at communicating and this happened me a lot.
(Please don't make me think I'm a crazy stalker haha)And the part I loved the most about this book: Bookworms issues while being an adult.
