https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69802.Tooth_and_Nail
Ok, he’d played a part in arresting a multiple murderer back in his own patch, but it wasn’t really the work of a serial killer.It’s really interesting to see Rebus out of his comfort zone, mixing with cockney coppers who seem to resent his presence and stumbling around a city he has no real knowledge of.
There aren’t too many characters here and probably too many coincidences – well, how else do you make a mystery work when you have a city of ten million people and just a couple of hundred pages to work with?
Number 3 in the Rebus series and I enjoyed it very much.
Rebus is in London and is quite out of his comfort zone, but still manages to be his normal bend all the rules self.
And of course he has the final flash of inspiration which catches the killer.
I had absolutely zero idea of who the killer was going to be.
I didn't even know the gender of the person we were looking for and yet when I found out who it was I thought "Oh yes .
Of course!" The mark of a good thriller writer I think.
I will most certainly continue with this series.
Granted, I've only just finished the third book in the series (I am reading them in order), so he may become more likeable as I progress, but right now there is nothing I like about this character.
I don't like him because of his wishy washy religious beliefs and his selfishness and his opinions about evil and bad teeth and mindless book collection and his self-righteousness (didn't I mention that already?).Yet for all Rebus' dislikeability and the uncanny levels of luck he has when it comes to solving the crimes he's investigating, I find Ian Rankin's compelling.
I get the sense that Rankin wants us to dislike Rebus.
This early entry in the Rebus series is not the best nor the worst of the books....it has its strong points such as the continuing unpleasant attitude of the detective which the author just keeps building upon as the series progresses.
It is one of those "pick the least likely suspect" and you have solved the case which has become a rather lame plot device in modern police procedurals and it surprised me that Rankin would choose it.I have read many of the books in this series and have enjoyed them immensely but this one falls a little short of what one usually expects from this best selling author.
Tooth & Nail by Ian Rankin.This is the 3rd in the Inspector Rebus series and my 14th.
I decided to hunt down Rebus's beginnings in his sleuthing career.Rebus has been called into London for his expertise in serial murderers.
It seems murders have occurred in which each victim has been bitten.
George flight is the head of the investigation and is not happy about Rebus being assigned to his case.
Flight shows his true colors by taking credit for any clues Rebus informs him of as his own.
But...let's not underestimate Rebus.
There's no keeping up with Rebus even as just the reader.
Rebus is on loan to London to help solve a serial murder case.
Somehow he's now got the rep as a serial killer expert and has been called in to solve this series of heinous, brutal murders.
The mystery was good; well-crafted and hard to figure out.
The car chase scene at the end gave good entertainment value.
Having the story set in London was a nice twist as I know that city well but I look forward to #4 when Rebus is back in his own stomping grounds in Edinburgh.
This must be one of the silliest books I've ever read. The plot is rambling; the denoument is melodramatic and farcical; the central character, Inspector Rebus, comes over as a bit thick in his conversations with the young female psychology student who, predictably enough, ends up in bed with him; and the characterisation of the villain, a serial killer who leaves bite marks in his victims, is like something out of a pantomime.
Despite how often a Rebus book would grab my attention in book stores, I held off on buying for one important reason – I’ve been trying to read crime series in order.
With book three, I was hoping for a four-star read but I wasn’t holding out hope.It turns out my enjoyment of Tooth and Nail sits somewhere between the first two books.
That being said, it’s likely a small part of me will continue to hold out hope in regard to my view changing.I realised with book two what it is that makes it so difficult for me to enjoy these books – I’m not crazy about Rebus.
First of all, he's chasing down a serial killer ( I know what your thinking ...Hey everybody has to, so what's so special about that?) Well for one thing, the serial killer is British and he's Scottish, and secondly he is being forced to work with the Brits in damned London, and the Brits they're thinking, "Who forced this damned Scot on us, it ain't like we can't take care of our own business" And if that isn't enough, the Scots have just finished defeating the Brits in a big football match.
Excellent plot, with a grippingly suspense and an unexpected end.3* The Third Gentleman3* The Serpen
Having said that, the story packs a punch.Rebus is sent down to London as an "expert" on serial killers to help the Met with a killer of their own.
He battles bigotry as he tries to track down the killer that the media has dubbed "Wolfman".The story plods along a little, right up to the big reveal of the killer, and that point the story explodes.
I don't think any other writer could have got away with what Ian Rankin did.
Superb read would highly recommend.
Rebus is sent to London (a form of punishment in his eyes) to assist the police in the investigation of a serial killer.
I am enjoying the Rebus series more and more and especially like the way the author lets us inside his head.
The characters in all the books, but especially this one, are fascinating, and I found it particularly interesting to read about the attitude toward and treatment of Rebus the Scot by his London colleagues, being rather appalled by their condescending and insulting manners.
No matter how badly anyone treats him, though, Rebus perseveres and makes us want to read more and more of his adventures.
3.5 stars.
Once again, the buildup is great in the third Rebus novel.
Rebus is written perfectly as the Scot who isn't on his own turf in London.
Rebus is in London to assist the police with The Wolfman Case, as an expert on serial killers.
And of course, Rebus goes in and does his thing.
The novel is great until the end.
It just unravels too abruptly to do the novel justice.
The killer wasn't too obvious, the killer's voice and perspective was well done and had me guessing.
Also enjoyed the nodds to the previous novels, they added to the whole Rebus world.
Originally published in 1992 as Wolfman, Ian Rankin used this third book primarily to explore his own feelings about London during his time spent residing in the capital and the device works well as chippy Rebus is down south and on more of a back foot than ever before.The presence of DI John Rebus is requested by Scotland Yard for his supposed knowledge of the modus operandi of serial killers after London has fallen prey to the savage murderer whom the press have dubbed 'Wolfman' This provides plenty of amusement for his superior in Edinburgh as the serial killer who Rebus put behind bars had a very personal motive and a grudge aimed squarely at the detective.
I also discovered this book is part of a series of crime solving novels featuring Detective Inspector Rebus.From the moment I inserted the first disc into my car's CD player and heard the fantastic British accents of the narrator, Samuel Gillies, I was transported to London where the majority of the plot takes place.
The mysteries I've read lately tend to be more of the amateur sleuth variety, the ones where the protagonist is a "normal" person (i.e. not a professional detective, police force, etc.) and happens to find themselves in the midst of a murder situation.
Dieses Buch befindet sich auf meiner Liste 16 Bücher für 2016, auf die es vor allem Bücher schafften, welche ihr Dasein vor sich hin Fristen, aber seit längerem nicht von mir gelesen wurden.
Ich wollte aber dem dritten Teil noch eine Chance geben und jetzt(!) ist die Bombe geplatzt.
Der Ermittler John Rebus, mit dem ich in den ersten zwei Bänden überhaupt nicht warm geworden bin, hat hier aber wirklich alles gezeigt.
Gegen Schluss des Buches konnte ich dieses überhaupt nicht mehr weglegen und habe es förmlich inhaliert.Wie kann es sein, dass die ersten zwei Bücher so schwach waren und mich dieser Band so gnadenlos gefesselt hat?
I didn't think the main character did much, if anything, in the way of solving the crime, instead spending most of his time drinking tea, shagging a beautiful woman who for some reason instantly wants the overweight older protagonist, and dealing with his dysfunctional ex and his child.
Then, he instantly solves the murders by realizing the bad guy used TWO WORDS in a manner that made him certain that this person was the killer.
The cliches were thick in this one, and as it's an older book, it feels quite dated as well.
And no sooner does he arrive in London than he learns from the radio that The Wolfman has killed a fourth woman.Thus opens Tooth and Nail, the third novel in Ian Rankin’s venerable series of detective novels featuring Inspector Rebus.
However, there’s a great deal of confusion and conflict before that happens, and Rebus is saved from arrest himself only because he manages to resolve the case.In a sense, Tooth and Nail is a traditional whodunit, since many suspects surface in the course of the investigation and Rebus’ job, above all, is to sort through them to find the one who is guilty.
Rebus is asked to be part of an investigation in London for a murderer who has been dubbed The Wolfman because he bites into his victim's stomachs after they are dead.
At the same time he visits his daughter who is living in London with her mother, his ex wife.
She is involved with a young man who Rebus thinks is unsavory, but he admits to himself that even if she was seeing a member of the royal family he would be suspicious.
The book unfolds in very typical Rankin style with an emphasis on details and Rebus' private life at the same time.
DI Rebus from Edinburgh is unbelievably called upon for help by the London police because of his supposed expertise on serial killers.
This allows Rankin to make fun of both Londoners and the Scots even about such a sensitive topic as racism: “Of course, there wasn’t nearly so much racism in Scotland.
As far as I can make out, no aspect of the plot or the characters, including the serial killer, is to be taken seriously.This is a great and funny read.
Thanks to the events in Knots & Crosses, many (who don't know all the details) believe that Rebus is somewhat of an expert in Serial Killers.
By and large, Flight's the only one that wants Rebus' help -- his superior, another detective on the case, and the press liaison are pretty united in their lack of interest in bringing in someone from "Jockland" to meddle in the crimes of the big city.As Rebus arrives in London, another body is discovered, so he shows up at the crime scene with his luggage, from there, they head to an autopsy -- rushed, no doubt given the likelihood that this is another Wolfman victim.
In this story Rebus is seconded to the Metropolitan Police in London to assist with the investigation into a series of killings committed by the serial killer named The Wolfman.
The reason for Rebus's secondment is because of his so called 'expertise' in investigating serial killings which is the subject of the novel 'Knots and Crosses'.
According to Rankin's introduction the reason for setting the novel in London was due to the writer's time living there before his move to France.
Still enjoying the series but still got a long way to go.
4 StarsRebus is sent to London to help detectives hunt a serial killer dubbed the Wolfman by the press.
Rebus feels out of place and like a fraud as the detectives and reporters call him a serial killer expert.
The doses of humor between him and is temporary partner Flight, the culture clash, and Rebus' own personal torment and with a decent mystery that does keep you guessing as to who and what the killer is.The pace of the story was on point, and grabbed me from the beginning, unlike book 2.
TOOTH AND NAIL (Pol Proc-John Rebus-Scotland-Cont) - ExRankin, Ian - 3rd in seriesFrom Fantastic Fiction: They call him the Wolfman - because he takes a nip out of his victims and because they found the first victim in the East End's lonely Wolf Street.
When Scotland Yard are anxious to find the last serial killer on their patch they look north and soon Rebus is on his way south from the chill of Edinburgh to the rain of London.
Rebus is a great, but dark character, with lots of dimension.
Relatively solid early Rebus hinges on a mindbogglingly stupid leap of faith in the case's solution.
There's a lot of work towards building Rebus into the model that we all came to know and worry about - he breaks a lot of rules but only gets drunk once - but the serial killer aspect is a bit weak.
Rebus and Rankin are always at their best when they deal largely in characters and investigation, and neither are designed to take the leaps into thriller territory.
As a character establishing piece this is nearly essential Rebus, but as a crime novel it lacks polish.
Here we go again. This could easily have been a 4 star book if Rankin hadn't broken down in the end. The ending was rushed and not well set up. Otherwise it was a truly creepy story about a London serial killer. Rebus is borrowed by the London police because of his supposed expertise in solving serial killer cases, but as we know the murders in Knots and Crosses were not quite serial killings. In this installment Rebus gets a love interest and visits with his ex-wife and his 16 year old daughter.
Inspector John Rebus is a wonderful creation--a cut above your usual flawed, haunted police detective--and Rankin is a wonderful writer: energetic, vivid, relentless. Together they make an irresistible team. This one finds Rebus in unfamiliar territory (London, beautifully rendered) tracking yet another serial killer. In the process he battles practically everyone in the London CID as well as his wife and daughter. There are elements that strain credulity--a few coincidences too many--but all in all this is a fast-paced, absorbing read.
En esta tercera entrega de la serie John Rebus, Ian Rankin va dotando más profundidad a sus personajes, sigue siendo una lectura ágil y facil de leer y con mucho humor. El personaje de John Rebus me encanta, es bastante cascarrabias y me gusta que Rankin dote al personaje de una fina ironía que hace de él, un personaje magnífico.
I really like the Rebus books. (They go really well with true crime podcasts.) This one was especially gripping because it was all about 1992 London - and not just the pretty sights!
