https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7035.Morality_for_Beautiful_Girls
Reading these books is more like visiting with friends.
It comes over him so gradually and the people who love him are so concerned for him.
It's easy to stand on the outside and tell the depressed person to get out and visit friends, but the sick person feels that no one would like to be around him and that he is a burden to his friends; he thinks they would all sigh with relief if he got out of their lives.And that brings up another thing I like about these books.
Spotted this afternoon in the philosophy section of a Berlin bookshop. I didn't dare ask if it was an imaginative interpretation of the content or just a mistake.
All people, both men and women, are entitled to equal treatment in the workplace became Women can get some jobs, but they cannot do certain jobs (for their own protection) as men will do these jobs better anyway."Another brilliant piece of observation - "She was a traditionally built lady, after all, and she did not have to worry about dress size, unlike those poor, neurotic people who were always looking in mirrors and thinking that they were too big.
If these thin people became any more insistent, then the more generously sized people would just have to sit on them.
Mma Ramotswe continues with her work although she is more of a life coach and counsellor with philosophical advice to her clients than a detective.
The mysteries are easily wrapped up but the stories we hear on the way are interesting snapshots of people's life.I never tire of hearing about the traditional Botswanan way and loved the expression 'stand on your toe' as an equivalent to fingers crossed!
Between the audiobook performance and the wisdom and wit in his writing, this series gets better every time I read it.
Long live AMS and his wonderful Botswana!<><><><>Second read - I'm really enjoying revisiting this series.
It's a good thing my memory is pretty bad, because it's almost like picking them up for the first time, except you know for sure you will love it.
Bravo to Alexander McCall Smith for these wonderful stories with endearing characters I just love.
Thank you, AMS!<><><><>Love this series.
Good story, great characters, something to smile about on almost every page, and so much wisdom here.
The main draw here is the cast of well drawn, well written, very memorable and on the whole very endearing (if occasionally frustrating) characters - Precious Ramostwe, Grace Makutsi, J.L.B. Matekoni et al and the interplay of their lives - the detective work and cases here become increasingly an incidental backdrop.The 'No.1 Ladies Detective Agency' stories and characters certainly have an air of authenticity and believability (although obviously contrived and significantly exaggerated for comic effect) and interestingly McCall Smith did spend some time living and working in Botswana.The first few books in the series are undoubtedly the strongest, funniest, most entertaining and compelling.
Mma Makutsi rises to her own in this volume "Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 3)".
That was simple selfishness, whatever grand name one gave to it."Most amusing of all is the big money customer that Mma Makutsi obtains who requires a quick investigation into the character of four Miss Beauty and Integrity of Botswana candidates, a rush job with an unusual need and surprising resolution."Men usually let their defences now and then, and the art of being a successful woman, and beating men at their own game, was to wait your moment.
Reading a No.1 Ladies Detective Agency’s book is always so much fun.In this one, the story broadens: we have Mma Ramotswe's investigations as always but also the newly promoted Assistant Detective, Mma Makutsi, whom also has to keep an eye the apprentices at Tlokweng Speedy Motors because the Agency has moved there to save costs.
Besides, the apprentices are kind of fun, here's hoping they will have names soon and keep appearing.
I hope they revisit the boy’s story, it’s seems like they talked too much about it to just ended with a few lines at the end; plus, it has potential.
Otrā grāmata sērijā bibliotēkā bija paņemta, bet nojaukta lika domāt, ka droši var lasīt sajauktā secībā. Nav jau ko daudz teikt - Prešesa ir tikpat burvīga, stāsti tikpat intriģējoši, un viss, ko teicu par pirmo daļu attiecas arī uz šo.
But when I pick up books from this series and always see the New York Times Book Review quote on the front, "The Miss Marple of Botswana," I start to think that Mma Ramotswe belongs in the discussion – not because she fits the mold, but because she seems to offer a different perspective within the genre.In a sense, I think these are classic detective stories.
Mma Ramotswe's favorite reference on private detection says, "There is very little drama in our calling; rather a process of patient observation, deduction, and analysis."But these stories are not so mystery-driven.
Yet, of the three books I have read in this series, I found _Morality for Beautiful Girls_ to be the weakest story so far.Mma Ramotswe is pulled in many different directions in this book, and only a few of the circumstances really go anywhere.
I particularly liked her case with the beauty pageant, and her quest to find a girl in Botswana with both beauty and integrity.Despite the obvious holes in this novel, I am still looking forward to reading more about Mma Ramotswe and the other characters in the future.
I can’t get enough of these Precious Ramotswe stories.
This is the third in a series that shows no signs of flagging as yet, and indeed which seems richer, deeper and more spellbinding each novel you read.MORALITY FOR BEAUTIFUL GIRLS follows the same template as before, although the detective cases here seem even more of an excuse to have Smith reflecting on aspects of life applicable to both Botswana and the world in general.
Here, we take a look at dysfunctional families, depression and female morality, and it’s all explored in a funny, heartwarming way.
It's just such an easy series to read! It requires little effort and I enjoy it. Sure, it's not the best thing I've ever read but each book is a pallet cleaner and can be enjoyed over a couple of days. This one was no exception but (view spoiler)[I was a bit sad that Mr fiance was sick with depression - then again it's not his story so it was nice to hand over the reigns of the mechanic shop. (hide spoiler)]. And yes, I've bough the next one :)
Morality is for everybody, and this means that the views of more than one person are needed to create it.
She had often been out of pocket on a case, simply because she could not refuse to help a person in need.
You simply could not help everybody; buy you could at least help those who came into your life.
She was a traditionally built lady, after all, and she did not have to worry about dress size, unlike those poor, neurotic people who were always looking in mirrors and thinking that they were too big.
This is an entry consistent with the prior two books in this delightful series, The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency and Tears of the Giraffe.The focus here is on beauty and young women.
Precious helps a politician who believes that his younger brother’s beautiful young wife is poisoning him.
Rawotse’s assistant gets a case of her own, in which she helps the head of a beauty pageant determine which of the finalists is a truly honest girl.
Mister Matekoni, Precious’ fiancée, is suffering from depression, and she sees that he is properly taken care of at a local orphanage.
As Precious Ramotse and increasingly her secretary and assistant Mma Makutsi go about investigating and resolving cases in a resourceful and satisfying way, I love that I can see the red dust of Botswana, feel the thirst of the land and the shade of the acacia trees, and smell the change in atmosphere when the rain comes..
But what a loss for the country that would be; what friendship, and solidarity, and feeling for the land would be sacrificed if that were to happen.
She had loved the time at the lands, and had not been bored.
It is the third in his series entitled The No. 1 Ladies’ Detective Agency, which feature the plucky Precious Ramotswe, her heart of gold, and the community mysteries in her beloved contemporary Botswana.Morality is partly mystery-solving of course, but mostly conversations among neighbors; between colleagues; and about that which makes Botswana run.
Rather we move at the pace of Africa; sharing bush tea with neighbors along the road to solving mysteries.If you’re familiar with Smith’s other cozy reads, this fits the same mold: slowly paced plot; quirky characters who frequently banter in jest; some contemplations on life’s meaning; and a domesticated, rural setting.
This is the third, and so far my favorite, of the #1 Ladies Detective Agency series.
As always, Alexander McCall Smith’s simple, rhythmic prose seems to echo the plodding of cattle under a warm Botswana sun, lulling you into a world that has time for repetition and tradition and courtesy.
While I found the first two in the series delightful, this was more moving and satisfying.
And funny!
For some reason, I find the simplistic style charming, not banal.
Perhaps that’s because it reflects the rather simple quality of Mma Ramatswe’s cases and observations into human nature.
I really liked the first two in this series, but I guess this is why I stay away from series books as a general rule.
I hate the summarizing from past books to catch you up.
The characters in this are still endearing and I love the setting and the 'love of country' theme going on.
I like the small moral lessons the books aim to teach and the simple writing style.
This one had a little too much going on -- too many cases for one book, too much background, and just got a little boring.
Funny, light-hearted look at everyday life, as the dynamic duo of Botswana's No.1 Ladies Detective Afency sort out life's problems, including lazy employeees, depression, family conflicts, and how to pick the winner of a beauty contest. Enjoyable addition to this excellent series
The two ladies continue to operate the detective agency, but now Precious' fiance is not well. She decides that her secretary will take charge of the garage while he recovers from a terrible bout of depression. Meanwhile there are many important detecting assignments to take care of, but the ladies are "up for it".This is the third book in the series and a thoroughly enjoyable read. when I open one of these books it feels so comfortable, just like coming home.
The cases are a lot less challenging, in my opinion, and we are really given an in depth look at Mma. Makutsi who began as a minor character and now has become quite the major character in the series as she has gone from a secretary to an Assistant Detective to now a new position as Assistant Garage Manager.
She handles a big case with a big fee all by herself and it is fun to see her character develop.
I would definitely not start the series with this book, since it is a definite build on the first two and character development propels the saga forward.
Although they are mysteries, these Ladies' Detective Agency novels feel peaceful to me. I love the insights and really the love of Africa, particularly Botswana, that is conveyed, and I like all of the social insights that we get inside of the main character's head. For example, this book had an interesting sequence about servants that made me think. The mystery part is really secondary.
What is not to like about Mma Ramotswe? She is able to see things for what they are. I enjoy these books. I especially enjoy that each book ties up all loose ends in a nice little bow for you by the end.
Another charming book from the number one ladies detective agency. Life for Mma Ramotswe becomes very hectic and stressful but with her uncanny good nature and with her reliable secretary, she move forward. Great role model for young women all around.
3.5 starsThis year I have been in the mood for easy, quick reads and this series fits the bill.
Plus it helps me get a couple of books read from my shelf.
A mystery that I couldn't put my finger on (which is cool considering the mysteries in this series are usually easy-going and not difficult to unveil), several laugh out loud moments, as well as touching upon an important issue.I also really liked how Mma Makutsi's character got further chance to develop and astound us with her capabilities.
:DI think I should have picked up more of this series books for my shelf.
Mr JKL Matacomie has depression (which was handled poorly), a little boy is found in the wild, her adopted children are settling in, her assistant is being promoted, the car shop and detective agency are being combined, a government official wants his brother's wife checked out, and that doesn't even get to the title's plot line of a beauty pageant look for beautiful girls with integrity.I found the book so scattered that it felt as though Mma Ramotswe didn't truly care about the adopted children or Mr JKL Matacomie, and she even felt pressured by the detective agency.
This is the 3rd book in the series and it was just as enjoyable as the first two.
In this one, Mma Ramotswe investigates the alleged poisoning of the brother of an important "Government Man" and Mma Makutsi, assistant detective is also promoted to assistant manager of the Tlokweng Road Speedy Motors, when Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni, the owner and Mma Ramotswe's fiance, is apparently struck with depression.
While Mma Ramotswe is working on the case for the Government man, Makutsi is tasked with looking into the moral character of the four finalists of the Miss Beauty and Integrity Contest, who may end up being Miss Botswana.
Third novel in his Lady Detective agency.
It's a lovely book, old fashioned in its slow pace, very low key plot.It's a slice of life from a world that moves at a different pace from ours.
In this we meet our detective Mma Ramotswe again facing the daily chores of a business woman (her business is not making enough money to cover Mma Makutsi's raised in status and pay), an engaged to be married woman (her fiancé Mr. Matekoni is acting strangely).
Mma Makutsi takes on her first case and the apprentices in Mr Matekoni's garage.
Another enjoyable offering from an author I greatly admire.Quiet writing, which only sets one up for something quite poignant or an unanticipated punch line. Here is a small example:Mma Makutsi snorted. "You made yourself look foolish. Why are you always running after girls? Why are you always trying to impress them?""Because that's how I enjoy myself," said the apprentice defensively. "I like talking to girls.We have all these beautiful girls in this country and there is nobody to talk to them. I am doing a service to the country."
