https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/436562.R_U_R_
A recent arrival to the R.U.R. factory, Helena, a sensitive young lady converses with the central director and mistakes the director’s beautiful secretary, a Robot named Sulla, for a real person.
As the central director, Harry Domin, informs Helena: “It would amaze you to know how many churches and lunatics there are in the world.” Churches and lunatics .
And, God forbid, if there is work where Robots can’t replace humans, there is always the opportunity to move your factory to a third world country and corral the poverty-stricken into your sweat-shop for next to nothing.
R.U.R, Rossum's Universal Robots. Written in 1920 by Czech writer Karel Capek. It is a science fiction play, and it has the distinction of introducing the word robot into the English language. Here comes a big spoiler; humans build robots to make their life better, robots become self aware and kill humans to make the world better. All the other species in the world gave a big thank you to the robots. That wasn't in the play, I just added that.
Simply a waste of time."Or" He took a good look at the human body and he saw straight away that it was much too complicated, any good engineer would design it much more simply."Or "Man is a being that does things such as feeling happiness, plays the violin, likes to go for a walk, and all sorts of other things which are simply not needed."The people that are too sure of themselves to say things like that are such because they believe in one and only one value (in this case productivity, in Hitler's case it was imagined superiority of Aryan race).
And thus, Helena can't understand that a machine that looks so much like a human doesn't have emotions.Now, politicians know it best.
إن مسرحية "إنسان روسوم الآلي" للتشيكي "كارل تشابك" هي أول مسرحية تستخدم لفظ "روبوت" على الإطلاق والذي عرفنا أن كلمة روبوت مُشتقة من كلمة تشيكية بمعنى العبيد.تدور أحداث المسرحية في جو كئيب ظلامي..
وهذه كانت المعضلة الأكبر.جنونهم العلمي أعماهم عن فكرة ماذا لو خُلقت الروح داخل الإنسان الآلي؟ هل سيظل تحت سيطرتهم؟ بالطبع لا كما حدث..فثارت الروبوتس على البشر لشعورها بأنها أفضل منهم..
وهُناك بعض الجمل الحوارية الرائعة بين شخصيات المسرح.قد تكون فكرة المسرحية عادية، ولكن تخيل أن هذه المسرحية لم تُكتب؟ كُل تلك الروايات التي بُنيت على الذكاء الإصطناعي والإنسان الآلي وقدرة الإنسان الآلي على السيطرة على العالم..
فكانت هذه المسرحية أول ما كُتب عن الذكاء الإصطناعي والإنسان الآلي..
(Rossum’s Universal Robots) by Karel Capek is an interesting read.
This is the first Sci-fi story with the word Robot.
The world of Sci-fi can thank this man for bringing Robots into the world.
Old Rossum, a mad scientist, wanted to be a substitute for God and decided to make man, but years came and went and nothing happened.
Young Rossum decided he would take on his father’s dream, and ditch his father’s crazy plan for making man and made a machine instead.
The scientists discover, as they are making robots more and more into the image of man, they are destroying themselves and the rest of mankind.
However, the Epilogue of R.U.R, has essentially the same ending as the re-imagined Battlestar Galactica (BG) TV series, both of which fail for the same reason--they can't justify what led up to it.
It is too serious a treatment to make mankind's institutions appear ridiculous.If it is science fiction, it fails because it is not serious enough to justify the magnitude of its stakes.
The very survival of mankind, undone because people stop procreating?
It's just not a sufficiently interesting concept to justify hours long treatment.
If it somehow could be, Capek didn't prove it here.Others might say, "Oh but there are such wonderful, intellectual ideas.
From the discussion in the Evolution of SF topic about this book, a lot of beautiful phrases & allusions are lost in translation.
We're lucky enough to have a someone who speaks the language & has read it in its original form.
Thanks, Oleksandr!This is a play & would probably be best seen rather than read.
The meat of this play is in the overall idea, so even poor translations can't ruin it.
I think a good translation or reading our discussion to catch some of the nuances is well worth it, though.
People who pick this up to read probably know already that this is the first time that the word 'robots' was ever used, and that's only interesting, I think, because all of the thematic explorations found in robot literature and art such as in Asimov and Kubrick and all those little 'Terminator' movies were already there in the play!
There was an interesting forward to the book of Capek's other books, 'War With the Newts', and it talks about the invention of the word 'Robot' and how the dictionary can trace the origen to a specific date, Oct. 9, 1922 the premiere date, this one of only a couple of words, similar to okay, that could be uttered in any city and be understood.I forget sometimes how much I like reading plays.
Popular culture makes us think of Robots as entities that achieve a near mythical status over time and thereby replacing humans in the natural order of things.
This little book was the germ of that idea and the one that came up with the name ‘Robot’ and interestingly for a book which is an account of a robot rebellion, the story is extremely humane.Ever considered this ?
This is to henceforth design robots across different nations with varying colors, creeds and nationalities and thereby avoiding such a congregation ever again : rings a bell ?The core of RUR is not sci-fi but it is an examination of human folly.
Indeed it was the first contact in literature through this relatively short play script.Many thematic philosophical notions being set by the author, is something more extraordinary when considered that early timeline in which almost none (maybe except for a woman named Mary Shelley) had the mind to think about.
No doubt, the work inspired great sci-fi legends like Asimov, Clarke."A man is something that feels happy, plays the piano, likes going for a walk, and in fact, wants to do a whole lot of things that are really unnecessary."But still..
"It was a great thing to be a man.
Frankly, I can't remember the last time I read a play I enjoyed. Its adequate, even witty; but feels incredibly outdated. By Outdated I do not mean technologically, but when I read the words spoken by the female characters I damn near wanna pull my hair out.Homicidal Robots I can tolerate; but when Helena timidly asks if she's "going to be punished" for having audaciously underestimated the technological capabilities of a Robot, its hard to imagine this book was written by a leading Czech thinker, and not a modern day Porn screenwriter.
3.5 sao. mở đầu có nhiều đoạn hài, nói chung là một vở kịch gọn gàng nhiều chỗ hổng :D Capek viết kịch không có gì là xuất sắc cả, nhưng hầu như ý tưởng chủ đạo của Chiến với bọn sa giông đều đã trình bày ở đây. Màn Robot toàn thế giới liên hiệp lại cũng đã có. Sang Sa giông thì đã lên một bậc về cái gọi là style. Kết cũng đầy loãng mạn tích cực tôn thờ tình ái lai láng chảy cả nước :))))
1920 yılında yazılmış ve ilk kez 1921’de sahnelenmiş, üç perdelik bir tiyatro oyunu R.U.R. Bu eserle ilgili tek bilgim Çekçe olduğu ve “robot” sözcüğünün İngilizce’ye bu oyunla geçtiğinden ibaretti.
Kullandığımız anlamıyla robot kavramının bu kadar “yeni” olmasına şaşırıyorum; kitap Cyrano de Bergerac’ın bilimkurguları gibi 1600’lerde yazılmış olsa daha az şaşıracaktım sanırım.
Bir yandan da, yüz yıldır robotlarla ilgili yazılan, çekilen, çizilen neredeyse her eserde karşılaştığımız kaygıların bu incecik kitapta topluca bulunabilmesine şaşırıyorum.
Robotlarla ilgili etik kaygılar?
Var. Robot hakları?
Var. Robotların da duyguları olduğunu söyleyen aktivistler?
Var. Robotların dünyayı ele geçireceği korkusu?
Var. Karel Čapek, ardından gelen yazarlara yeni hiçbir şey bırakmamış neredeyse.
Robot sözcüğünü bugünkü anlamıyla literatüre kazandırmış bir yazar olarak bahsediliyor Capek'ten, aslında kelimenin babası kardeşi imiş (bu da küçük bir not). Bilim kurgunun ilk örnekleri arasında yer alan R.U.R, aslında bir oyun, yine insanın sözde iyi niyetle başlayan ancak her iyi niyetle başladığı şeyde olduğu gibi bunu da bitmeyen hırsına alet ederek insanlığın felaketini getirdiğini görüyoruz bu oyunda. Semenderlerle Savaş'ta olduğu gibi insan yine kendisinin en büyük düşmanı.
I listened to this as a play instead of just reading the script. Even though this was written in the 1920's many of the themes still resonate today.And be warned, this was written before Asimov wrote his rules for robots.
Probably important as the prototype for the basic robot narrative, which is as follows:a) Humans manufacture slave laborers whose own needs are minimal in order to lower costs and break unions;b) Humans equip slave laborers with skills sufficient to carry out productive tasks, including heavy industrial, technical, academic, and military functions;c) Humans construct slave laborers who lack any desires of their own and are accordingly not market participants and therefore require no wages;d) Hum
(We have all this occurring not as tragedy, but as farce, in  Robopocalypse.) In Asimov, of course, robot management of human society is almost always presented as non-genocidal and benign, for the betterment of humanity, (view spoiler)[though the most glaring exception is how robots nuke Earth in Robots and Empire, which is still, however, compliant with the Zeroth (hide spoiler)].Of course these texts are not just about robots, just as zombie narratives are not about the undead; the latter body of stories is related intimately to guaranteeing a stable supply of low cost labor, normally through necromancy or bodily possession via sortilege.
Un 4,5M'ha encantat per la profunditat del seu missatge i per la quantitat de temes que toca.Aquí en trobareu la ressenya sencera:http://especulacionsapeudepagina.blog...
Pane Čapku, tohle bylo skvělé. Já jakožto člověk, který nemám rád klasiku (navíc českou klasiku), jsem si toto dílo oblíbila a můžu ho vřele doporučit. Čeština je navíc v R.U.R. jednoduchá a lehce srozumitelná. Těším se na obhajobu u maturity. (Kdybych si to vytáhla, znáte to. :D)
Here robots are living creatures from the onset and the way they are treated reminds of slavery and serfdom.In contrast to the accelerated development of technology the human mind (or 'rozum' in Czech language) has not evolved much beyond premordial times.
The motivation for men's actions still comes from strive for power, wealth or women (men in this case has to be understood as males - the females in this drama are limited to their role as loving but stupid companion or Pandora [both Helena] or wailing observers [Nana]).Being confined to the R.U.R. factory island we observe the decline of the world and humanity through the eyes and ears of the company's directors.
I read two different editions of the play, both crediting the same translator, but found stark differences between them.
The version pictured here seems more complete, but I found several passages truncated or entirely removed from the Dover Thrift Edition (go figure).If you are at all interested in the history of robot stories, this is a must read for its depiction of a robot revolution, but if you are just looking for casual entertainment or--the Maker forbid--a script to produce, go elsewhere.
Still, all respect to Capek for giving us the terminology for an entire genre.
Occasionally oddly told bit of satire, this is a play that should be seen and read by everyone. Where the term "robots" originates, the story tells of the sad eventual outcome of humans over-reliance on soulless workers.
He’s the one who first came up with that word for a separate group of manufactured people (automatons?) who carry out work around the house, in factories and in the fields, subservient to the needs of humans.
He’s the first one who posited how they might rise up, and declare themselves as people too.
Why do the characters act the way they do?But it is fascinating to come back to one of the places where it all started, and it was worth the read to see where some of the themes and preoccupations of later science fiction originated.Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
An early classic of artificial intelligence, the play looks to a future in which all workers are automatons.Reading R.
(Rossum’s Universal Robots) was like reading the generic script to all subsequent robot/artificial intelligence stories, whether in film or literature; I doubt that its influence on these can be overstated.
With so much to be said and worked out, some aspects of characters and plot felt significantly underdeveloped.
A novella, for instance, might have allowed for more justice to be done to the abundance and richness of ideas surrounding the subject.Having said that, the play was highly readable, engaging, and its theme still fascinates.
It is a humane work interspersed with some sharp satire.
Ουσιαστικά σ'αυτό το έργο είναι η πρώτη φορά που συναντάει κανείς στην λογοτεχνία τον όρο "ρομπότ", με τον οποίο πλέον είμαστε τόσο συνηθισμένοι.
Όμως, εκτός από την εισαγωγή του όρου "ρομπότ", το βιβλίο προσφέρει αρκετή τροφή για σκέψη και προβληματισμούς για την ανθρώπινη κοινωνία.Η όλη ιστορία διαδραματίζεται σ'ένα εργοστάσιο παραγωγής ρομπότ, στο οποίο διαμένουν και εργάζονται ελάχιστοι άνθρωποι.
Τα πράγματα όμως αρχίζουν και ξεφεύγουν εντελώς, τόσο με τον αριθμό των ρομπότ που παράγονται, όσο και με τις βελτιώσεις τους.
Θα κινδυνέψει ο άνθρωπος από το δημιούργημά του;Όπως και να το κάνουμε, είναι ένα σημαντικό θεατρικό έργο.
I don't read that many plays, but I should probably read more considering that I work in theatre.
I picked this one up primarily because it's famous for coining the term "robot".
The creatures in Čapek's work aren't really what we typically consider robots today, though--they're more biological than mechanical.
Written in 1920 and first performed in 1921, this was way ahead of its time.
I wanted to read this for the historical contribution it has made, but it truly stands up today and I enjoyed it based on its own merit.

Tohle je teda drama! Napínavé, zajímavé a nádherně české. Sice mě pořád udivuje, jak dokáže kdokoli vecpat tak obsáhlý námět do sta stránek a přesto si zachovat důmyslnost, nápaditost a dokonce i nečekané zvraty. Karel Čapek je super, R.U.R. stejně tak a je vtipné, že i v nějakém 20. století byl tenhle autor tak pokrokový, že jeho díla jsou mnohdy reálná i dnes. Fakt se těším, až se dostanu k dalším jeho dílům!
قبل روايات إيزاك أزيموف وويليام جيبسون وآرثر كلارك.. وقبل مستقبليات فيليب ديك المظلمة.. وقبل سكاي نت ورؤى جيمس كاميرون المخيفة.. كتب كارل تشابك المخطوطة الأم التي أرست القواعد لكل أدبيات الروبوتات الساخطة وثورات الآلات. روبوتات روسوم العالمية.دراما مسرحية بديعة وضرورية لكل محب للخيال العلمي.. شكر واجب لدار ويلز لإحياء النص المترجم من جديد.
They are considerably different.The most common version in English is by Paul Selver (1922) then modified by Nigel Playfair (1923)http://preprints.readingroo.ms/RUR/ru...This is the version that is most likely to be seen on stage.
The character of Nana is given an interesting lower-class British speech pattern: "She doe'n'alf get some funny ideas!" I wish I had read the version by Claudia Novack-Jones .
(Lamp goes out.)"To the poetic Claudia Novack-Jones: "You still stand watch, O human star, burning without a flicker, perfect flame, bright and resourceful spirit.
(The lamp goes out.)"To the drastically trimmed Selver/Playfair: "Man's power!
Rossum, in the play, invents robots who will take on the role of work.
That’s the whole story.” The truths of the creators of the robots are different.
Domin later states, “but within the next ten years Rossum’s Universal Robots will produce so much wheat, so much cloth, so much everything that things will no longer have any value.
Yes, people will be out of work, but by then there’ll be no work left to be done.
Alquist comments to Domin, “nothing is stranger to man than his own image.”This far reaching play asks many questions, and finds troubling answers.
