https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1079427.The_Magic_Pudding
"Gentlemen," said the Judge, "I must remind you that we require a Review!""We don't needs no Review," replied Sam rudely, "We just needs to get away from them rascally Puddin'-thieves." And he pointed to the Wombat and the Possum, lurking in the comment thread, who looked up with a guilty start."Ignore his foolish protestations, your honour," said the Wombat hurriedly.
But Sam and Bill paid him no attention and gave the Possum and the Wombat such a hail of uppercuts and snoutbendings that they fled, flagging posts left and right as they clattered down the stairs."Good riddance to the both of them," said Bunyip with evident satisfaction.
"The funniest children's book ever written"?
But then, Philip Pullman, who wrote the introduction, never struck me as being much good at humor himself.
It's a fine introduction, though, especially for a children's book.
I don't think, even had I read it as a child, that it would have been dear to my heart they way it was to Pullman's: that characters are too slight and the stakes too low.
Phillip Pullman says The Magic Pudding, Being the Adventures of Bunyip Bluegum and his friends Bill Barnacle and Sam Sawnoff is his favourite book.
And as with those authors, although the story and characters appeal to very young children, it is a story which is better read aloud, as the language used is sometimes quite difficult.The story is about a group of friends, wild Australian anthropomorphised creatures.
The verses, so similar to Edward Lear, are little stories in themselves, reflect the varying moods of the characters.
3.5★sAlbert (the magic pudding's name), was surrounded by his owners – Sailor Bill, Bunyip Bluegum and Sam Sawnoff.
The pudding was steak and kidney, but when whistled at and turned around, it was something else.
It also never ran out – because it was magic.
The Magic Pudding is a delightful fable written by Aussie author and artist Norman Lindsay, back in 1918 for children everywhere.
It’s beautifully illustrated, even my kindle copy, and throughout the story the friends break into song and recite poetry to their hearts’ content.
I downloaded my copy from Project Gutenburg for free, which anyone can do who so wishes.
Norman Lindsay was one of Australia’s most famous and controversial artists, and his brilliant drawings alone would be reason enough to add The Magic Pudding to anyone’s library, but the text (which he also wrote) is bloody hilarious.Which character is funniest - the hook-nosed, insolent parrot? The blooming old rooster with his singed feathers? Uncle Wattleberry, in full bounding and plunging mode? Or the Puddin’ himself, always eager to be eaten? An utter classic from a high-yielding imagination.
For example, I am not sure that it would be something the modern parent would be unequivocally enthusiastic about giving to a five year old; the protagonists are very ready to brawl with the 'puddin thieves' and I'm not sure how that level of enthusiasm for fisticuffs would go.How would a modern child feel about the regular poetic verses?
Poetry used to be a big thing in kids books, but I don't think it is so much any more.In any case, I think all age groups should adore the artwork as much as I did when I was six and still do today, it is delightful in the extreme and if it has dated to the point of being more for older kids and adults, well, it is still quite thoroughly enjoyable for kids my age.

Read this one a while ago.
Just remembering it for reasons too complicated and silly to repeat here.
That's about all I remember.
I was at a friend's house when I read it -- was babysitting and reading the book with a nine year old and we were laughing quite a bit.
We didn't get through the whole book.
According to another reviewer there are a few "digs at Jews" in here.
Perhaps I will read it again soon and write a much better review.
With Bunyip's help, they fight off Possum and Wombat, meet a host of other interesting characters and tell the story of two ships called the Saucy Sausage and the Salt Junk Sarah and how Bill and Sam came by the pudding in the first place.Lindsay's animal and human characters often break into rhyme or song, and not at a young child's reading level."We laugh with scorn at threats," said Bill, and he added as a warning--"I don't repent a snout that's bent,And if again I tap it,Oh, with a clout I'll bend that snoutWith force enough to snap it."and Sam added for the Wombat's benefit--"I take no shame to fight the lameWhen they deserve to cop it.So do not try to pipe your eye, Or with my flip I'll flop it." (p34)Yeah, they get a bit violent - in the cartoon sense, like watching old Warner Bros.
The Magic Pudding is a pie, except when it's something else, like a steak, or a jam donut, or an apple dumpling, or whatever its owner wants it to be.
It's magic.But the Magic Pudding is also alive.
A meaner, sulkier, snider, snarlinger Pudding you've never met.So Bunyip Bluegum (the koala bear) finds out when he joins Barnacle Bill (the sailor) and Sam Sawnoff (the penguin bold) as members of the Noble Society of Pudding Owners, whose "members are required to wander along the roads, indulgin' in conversation, song and story, and eatin' at regular intervals from the Pudding." Wild and woolly, funny and outrageously fun, The Magic Pudding stands somewhere between Alice in Wonderland and The Stinky Cheese Man as one of the craziest books ever written for young readers.
I love this book.
It was book.
But now, I have to mentally transpose the dialogue into an Aussie accent, which is fun, and gives such bits of dialogue as "I'll take and bounce a gibber off yer crust!" a reason for being so exotic sounding.
Sorry.
He dismissed his book as "Just a bit of piffle" which is disingenuous to put it mildly.
Sorry mate, but it was the best thing you ever did.
Well be careful, don't speak too loud or I might just take and bounce a gibber off yer crust.
I agree with whoever it was who declared this to be the funniest children's book ever written.
But, as you'd expect from Norman Lindsay, it's certainly not a book just for kids.
Lindsay was a brilliant visual artist, a member of the "heroic vitalist" movement that shocked the Christian and conformist Australia of his day - and also a profound writer of adult literature.
They demanded re-readings so often that I eventually bought a tape of it read by professional actors, which the kids listened to with glee over and over again.Yes, it depicts an older Australia - in many respects a better one - but it is by no means beyond the imaginative reach of an intelligent child of any Anglo society today.
The story is meandering and not particularly interesting (mostly people working themselves into righteous indignation and beating up the nearest foe), but Lindsay's language is wonderfully overwrought and filled with poetry and character.
Young kids may not understand why the turns of phrase are funny, but they'll hear the chuckle in your voice and they'll get the idea.
Then again, I do just a terrific Bill Barnacle voice, ho ho!This is a good one to read in small doses to the alert 5-6+ year old.
Lindsay had a masterful way with characters: facial expressions, postures, and motion.
I can't imagine any kid or adult not enjoying them and I can't imagine this book without them.
Distinctly remember reading this for the first time.
Either way, there was a bunch of people at our house having loud fun and I snuck into the lounge-room in my much loved, filthy, purple dress.
I curled up in one corner of the lounge and basically spent most of the day reading.
This story just drew me in and it was the perfect literary challenge for me at that time.
There were some difficult words but the story was so captivating and bizarre.
And grumpy, if I remember correctly!An absolute classic, and an underrated gem of Australian literature.
This book was funny and some characters were very interesting. A meal that never runs out!
Utterly delightful. I fell in love with Bunyip Bluegum, Bill Barnacle, Sam Sawnoff, and yes, even the rude, irascible Puddin'. The illustrations convey so much expression and humor, and the clever text and ridiculous plot had me chuckling. Highly recommended for fans of Lewis Carroll and the like.
It also contains the kind of Australian slang that you don’t hear so much these days but it’s the creativity and humour in the language that adds so much character to the book, not to mention the quite unique plot:A quite respectably-dressed koala by the name of Bunyip Bluegum befriends Bill Barnacle, a sailor, and his companion Sam Sawnoff, penguin bold, who are in possession of this mysterious, magical ‘cut-an’come-again Puddin’’ who never runs out, can become any flavor you like and (despite his ‘rough and ready way’) takes great pleasure in being eaten.This band of ‘professional puddin’-owners’ then set out to, it seems, wander about the place but in doing so must also defend their precious pudding against the devious acts of treachery continually plotted against them by ‘professional puddin’-thieves’, the Possum and Wombat.
On their travels the three friends and Albert the magic pudding must continually out wit the pudding thieves Possum and Wombat.Written and illustrated by Norman Lindsay, The Magic Pudding: The Adventures of Bunyip Bluegum and his friends Bill Barnacle and Sam Sawnoff is an Australian children's classic.
By the end, I was ready to move on.I understand that this is a book for children, I loved it as a child, but as an adult it just wasn't the same.
I think there is a definite reason The Magic Pudding is a classic Australian children's story, but for me I just kinda wish I had left it as a wonderful childhood memory.Written by Geramie Kate Barkerhttps://gemsbooknook.wordpress.com
A friend who I'd not properly spoken to in almost 2 years liked this book so much that she sent me a copy of this.
Any book that gets you in touch with a school friend deserves to be respected for its power.
A book that makes you laugh and remember the wonder of the trippy stories devoured as a child (whilst making you darn hungry) deserves to be treasured and re-read at a later date.
If anything, revel in how far mankind's come if we can read a book and say, 'darn that racist malarkey's antiquated'.
Bunyip, a koala, runs away from home because he can’t stand his Uncle’s whiskers, and meets a sailor and a penguin who own a magic pudding.
(It magically replenishes; also, it can be any kind of puddin’ or pie.) But there are a couple of dangerous puddin’ thieves about with a flair for disguise, and despite the trio’s watchfulness, the puddin’ is always being stolen.It’s a hilarious, demented fantasy, with lots of eating and singing and fighting.
Its tone and humor are so evocative of Pogo that I would be surprised if Walt Kelly hadn’t read it; indeed, perhaps it’s best described as a cross between Alice in Wonderland and Pogo.
A swagman, a koala and a penguin alternately try to protect and rescue their unending, flavour-changing magic pudding. I remembered more wacky hijinks and fewer songs. It still had some amusing parts, but I was glad it was quite a short book.
Not quite as good as Carroll - the premise is suitably random, the characters hilarious and the illustrations are absolutely brilliant, but everyone breaks into song a little too often and the illustrations render a lot of the text redundant. Still, a most charming and entertaining little book.
Love the bits of poetry throughout.
bed time story for ms5 at the mo
an absolute classic Australian bringing bush creatures alive and bringing great words for all to read , not just children
I read this book when I was younger and have been reading it to my kids. It's hilarious and the illustrations are beautiful.
You will like it. Read it aloud with a friend! Please contact me if you'd like to help me turn this one into an audiobook.
An Australian children's classic written in 1918 and constantly reprinted since.
The illustrations are brilliant and the text at times very funny.
Aimed at young children, I think some adult input - or a dictionary - is needed to explain some of the language but they will need no encouragement to understand and delight in some of the insults flying about aimed at professional pudding thieves.
In a mixture of prose and rhyming verse, it is a book to appeal to any children who love books, lively illustrations and ridiculous storylines.
I certainly wouldn't wax as lyrical as Philip Pullman does about this book but I am left longing for a steak and kidney pudding. I suspect had I read it as a child I too would have been enraptured. So much is memory of time and place ,bound up with what we have read. Hence my love of Swallows and Amazon, The Snow Goose and many more. Loved the illustrations and if I was to visit Australia I should seek out the park where the statues of Sam, Bill, Bunyip and Albert the pudding reside.
I thought this was really fun. It reminded me of Alice in wonderland and Roald Dahl. The only problem with reading this out loud to kids was that some of the language didn’t exactly click with them. Which is fine, because they thought the rhymes were funny, but it was a small bump. Funny book though!
