https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/366522.P_S_I_Love_You
I have mixed feelings about both the book and the movie (which is irrelevant, except that it influenced my experience of the book).
I'm impressed that Cecilia Ahern was able to imagine the scenario, flush it out, and write an okay novel about it at only 21 years old.
I've met many young widows and widowers over the past 2 1/2 years, and all of them would agree that the plot of the novel is unrealistic.
If only life, widowhood, and grief were as neat and tidy as Cecilia Ahern imagined....
Beautiful. Wonderful. Lovely. A Masterpiece. Heart-warming. Fantastic. Sensational. Emotionally evoking. Cecilia, you are and amazing thinker and writer. I don;t know how you thought of this story, but you did it well. But you delivered to paper even better. This beautiful piece was like watching the most beautiful portrait ever painted through a glass spotted with the spots of the rain, with the rain representing the emotion that even the world feels knowing this book exists. It was truly amazing. I look forward to more books from you (I hear 'Love, Rosie' is good..
I seem to be one of very few who didn't like this book.
First of all I must point out that I love girlie books and cry at anything even the slightest bit sad.
With that said, I didn't enjoy it at all and couldn't wait for it to end.
I WANTED to like it.
The whole book felt like a rambling and dull conversation with a repetitive yet inconsistent story-line.
I would normally have full sympathy for Holly's situation but honestly she just annoyed me.
Her friends annoyed me.
Her family (except her mum, I liked her) annoyed me.
Read it still in manuscript and fell in love... I knew it would be bestseller... One of my favorites among the books and authors I discovered as editor and bought rights for Serbia
So badly written that it detracted from the touching and interesting premise.
The book is written by the daughter of the Irish Prime Minister which is the most interesting thing I can think to say about it.
Having said this, I can see why this will be made into a film.
It actually sounds really naff now I write it… But I honestly think the film will be far superior to the book.
It seems that to have your novel made into a film, you don’t have to be a good writer.
You just have to have a good idea.
I was really expecting a lot more from this book, being that it has been made into a movie but I was fairly disappointed.
I suppose that I'm drawn to strong, proactive, and independent main characters and I spent a lot of time feeling like Holly was whining throughout the whole book.
Overall, I probably wouldn't recommend this book to many people and most likely won't even see the movie because of it - and who would cast Hilary Swank for Holly's character in the first place??
"I believe that you should always leave loved ones with loving words. It may be the last time you see them." I've read and liked those words since long time ago but never really took time to think about it until an incident 8 years ago.That day, I was talking on the phone with Dad. It was just a casual conversation. Dad was planning to come to Bandung at weekend so he asked me did I want him to bring something for me and such. Things were usual until when we were gonna ended our conversation. U
I've read and liked those words since long time ago but never really took time to think about it until an incident 8 years ago.That day, I was talking on the phone with Dad. It was just a casual conversation.
Usually at the end of our phone call, I'd like to say : Love you, Dad. That time, I didn't know why but I hesitated to say it.
A Chama Que Nunca Se ApagaOs alvos do Amor são efémeros, mas o Sentimento neles gerado dura e perdura como Chama que Nunca se Apaga. E há todo um Mundo de Possibilidades onde se reinventar.Ao Abraçar a Vida rumando em Frente, veremos os Impossíveis de Hoje tornarem-se os Possíveis de Amanhã.Nada supera a sensação de Renascer das Cinzas!É a Vitória da Vida sobre a Morte Potencial que sucumbe. Um Momento de Ressurreição. E não conheço nada na Vida que se lhe equipare!
And I think that's what Gerry gives Holly in her first year without him - hope for a new life.I'd say this little story gave me a similar feel-good feeling to The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks.
Really it was beautiful.Read this novel if: You're looking for something inbetween other books and don't want to have to work too hard to enjoy the characters.Don't read this novel if: You think you could feel disconcerted or upset by the intense, overwhelming grief Holly is struggling to come to terms with.
It made me cry a few times and also appreciate things in my life....especially my loving and thoughtful husband.
A few chapters in the book were hard to read and I had to put it down for a while and watch TV instead.
Thankfully though I know he is coming home unlike Holly's husband.
This book has also been made into a movie.
They changed the story and characters around.....her Mother they make out to be something different from the book.
I hate it when they do that to movies made from books.
So before seeing the movie I advice reading the book.
I thought maybe I'd missed something in the book and not only that, but I've become well acquainted with this kind of loss in the time that has passed.
Now I find the book not just boring, but immature.
This book is Ahern's supposition of what it must be like to lose your significant other at a young age.
There is no real grief, or heart, in this book, nor are the characters' actions very realistic.
My advice: don't waste your time.
If you want to read about grief and lost loves, go read The Year of Magical Thinking instead.
Ειναι το πρωτο βιβλιο της συγγραφέως που διαβάζω και ξεκίνησα με το ντεμπούτο της. Χαίρομαι που το έκανα, γιατί για μένα ειναι ένα εκπληκτικό ντεμπούτο. Παρότι πραγματεύεται ένα δύσκολο θέμα, το πένθος και τη διαχείρισή του, δεν ειναι καθόλο καταθλιπτικό. Υπάρχουν αρκετά χιουμοριστικά στοιχεία, δωσμένα με απλό τρόπο, που ελαφρύνουν το κλίμα.Ένα βιβλίο που μιλά για την αγάπη, με γλυκό και συγκινητικό τροπο.
Reto 43- 2018 Book Challenge: Un libro que estaba siendo leído por un extraño en un lugar público.Very Funny. :D
Cecelia Ahern's debut novel, PS, I Love You, follows the engaging, witty, and occasionally sappy reawakening of Holly, a young Irish widow who must put her life back together after she loses her husband Gerry to a brain tumor.
Ahern, the twentysomething daughter of Ireland's prime minister, has discovered a clever and original twist to the Moving On After Death concept made famous by novelists and screenwriters alike--Gerry has left Holly a series of letters designed to help her face the year ahead and carry on with her life.
If PS, I Love You is any indication of this author's talent, readers have much to look forward to as Ahern matures as a novelist and a storyteller.
Oh, and by too long I mean it was too long for the story, not as a book in general.
Then again, this is probably just another case of "it's not you, it's me." I'm sure everyone knows what the story is, so I'm not going to delve into that, what I would like to mention, however, is that Ms. Ahern is quite a talented writer, and she really isn't a bad story teller.
Actually, I think one of the reasons I couldn't bring myself to like the book was that I couldn't sympathise with Holly.
Again I liked the movie more than the book. I feel like a mean person saying it for a newly widowed woman, but Holly is an insufferable little shit and I hate her.
Gerry, infatti, muore a causa di un cancro terminale al cervello ed Holly, vedova a soli 29 anni, non sa cosa fare per rimettere insieme i pezzi.Questo libro è qualcosa di meraviglioso.
Cecelia Ahern mi ha regalato dei momenti veramente esilaranti che sono stati uno stacco piacevole dal dolore e dalla tristezza che provavo per altri.- (view spoiler)[ Una delle cose che ho apprezzato di più è stata la mancanza di un altro amore per Holly.
Mi è piaciuto molto il valore che l'autrice ha dato alla sua protagonista, che può definirsi e, soprattutto, sopravvivere da sola anche senza un uomo.
I'm not a big fan of PS I love you. Gerry is romantic and makes some wonderful gestures that make his wife realize she's not alone in dealing with life after Jerry. But thanks to these sweeping romantic gestures, they're out of money (nothing left even to pay utility bills) and Holly has to beg her Mom for money. PS: Take a splurgy vacation with your friends, then come back and make the most of the remaining $10 in our joint account! PPS I love you!
She had no appetite and no desire to continue with her life as it was before Gerry passed.Ahern's storytelling style had her cutting back and forth from the present to the past, illustrating the relarionship that Gerry had with Holly, her family and their circle of friends.
In between the tasks, Holly learned more about her family and friends as well as how life continues despite the all the loss.Ahern created compelling characters that tell about growing up, the poignancy of loss and of rediscovery.
What I wanted was a poignant and heart-breaking portrayal of a widow's emotional state, and all I got was a lot of a small talk and boring everyday family time.
While I like Holly's family dynamic, it's kind of a drag, and I needed plot to happen.
This book has 470 pages and nothing relevant happens.Holly is awesome, she was the best part of the novel.
Honestly, their bond alone had better development than Holly’s healing process, that I’m not even sure ever happened.
If there was no mention of anything romantic between them, I’m sure this book would be much better.
So I figured I would just read the book first for once and see what I thought of the movie after.
Like Holly's sister as a character in the book, is so much more developed and I had really liked her.Though its a very touching and emotional story, almost to the point where it freaks me out a little bit (I mean what young married woman wants to imagine her husband dying!), I still couldn't put the book down to see what the next letter he wrote to her said.
At least the book portrays the grief as more of a struggle and process than I felt the movie did, which was good.
This was MUCH different than the movie, but I really liked it, I think even more than the movie. It's a honest, raw look at the long road of healing and finding yourself again after losing a part of your heart.
This novel is about Holly dealing with the death of her husband, Gerry. She later discovers that Gerry left a series of letters for every month for a year. One for Jan, Feb, March, etc. The story was heartwarming. Liked the little twist in the end although I wanted the ending to go a bit more slower. In the end, it seemed like she became a lot more (view spoiler)[ okay with Gerry's death than she was before, it felt like the author did that to finish the book faster :p (hide spoiler)]I really ap
This novel is about Holly dealing with the death of her husband, Gerry.
In the end, it seemed like she became a lot more (view spoiler)[ okay with Gerry's death than she was before, it felt like the author did that to finish the book faster :p  (hide spoiler)]I really appreciated the writer not adding unnecessary details to make the book bigger than it was.
Even if the writing style was simple, she had a flair for simple writing (does that make sense?) unlike those who write simply because they don't have any skill.......but this writer has the skill to keep things simple....like a pro?
I chose this book one day when I was in the mood for something different than my usual fare of high fantasy, smart science fiction or classic literature.
I spent a long time perusing the chick-lit shelves (not being a fan of the genre, normally) before settling on this book, and I was not disappointed with my choice.Holly is a widow who watched her husband die from a lengthy illness and is having a hard time dealing with it...
The book is by turns heart-breakingly sad and side-splittingly funny, sometimes in the same paragraph, and you will end up laughing through your tears or vice versa.
With the movie coming out, I finally decided to read the book (however, I don't intend to see the movie as it looks really bad).
I didn't know a whole lot about the book before reading it, other than the basic premise.
In keeping in line with my love of all things Irish, I enjoyed that this book was set in Dublin.
Unlike a lot of chick lit books, the side characters were also well developed.
I did have some issues with the ending of the book but I don't think that's a bad thing.
A young married couple, Holly and Gerry, have a joke between them: If anything ever happenedto him, he'd have to write her a list or else she'd never be able to cope without him.
“The List”grew to encompass advice for any eventuality, a joke all their friends shared.
When Gerry'ssevere headache is diagnosed as brain cancer and Holly tragically loses him in a few shortmonths, she is devastated and unmoored.
And then it arrives: a package marked “The List.” Gerry has kept his promise, andinside this package are ten envelopes to be opened over a period of ten months.
The main story is that her husband before he died he wrote 12 notes for her to support her and help her to start a new life without him.
You will see what she will do and live her life without him and try her best to continue.I enjoyed every moment readying this book..
Enjoy it :)P.s. sorry for my poor Englishالقصه تحكي عن امرأه فقدت اعز رفيق لها وهو زوجها.
وهو كان يعني لها الحياه باكلمها.القصه ان زوجها قبل ان يموت..
كتب لها ١٢ رسائل قصيره تساعدها لتخطي حزنها ويساعدها لتكمله حياتها..
وفي القصه تعيشو معها حزنها وفرحها..
Excerpt: “But Holly, nobody’s life is filled with perfect little moments. And if it were, they wouldn’t be perfect little moments. They would just be normal. How would you ever know happiness if you never experienced downs?”Devoured the book as well as the movie. Highly recommended.
În scrisorile lui, Gerry îi oferă sfaturi pas cu pas, deoarece el o cunoaște cel mai bine și știe cum să o ajute să iasă din depresie.
E de la sine înțeles că l-am adorat pe Gerry, este un bărbat deosebit de la care avem foarte multe de învățat, lucru pe care îl pot spune și despre Holly.
Mi-a plăcut mult stilul autoarei, reușește să descrie foarte bine stările prin care trec personajele și am simțit durerea protagonistei noastre ca și cum ar fi fost a mea.
Ea își pierde jumătatea, omul de preț din viața ei, pe dragul de Gerry, un soț minunat care este răpus de o tumoare.Holly este devastată și se pierde pe sine, uită cum este să trăiești cu adevărat până în momentul când începe să primească niște scrisori misterioase de la...
Ar fi vrut să aibă puteri magice, când avea de înfruntat zilele cele mai grele din viața ei." (p.125)"Lacrimi amare i se rostogoleau pe față și Holly își strânse mâinile în jurul corpului pentru a se alina.
