https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92571.Gargoyles
These two characters are so wooden and theoretical that I wanted them to get the hell out of the way so that I could enjoy the book because I definitely found the freaks and losers far more entertaining than their soporific discourses on familial relations.
Most insane people aren't really like that.
What's embarrassing for Bernhard here is that he very much frames the insane rant as the showstopper of the novel, the all-singing, all-dancing musical number that wakes up the octogenarian season ticket holders, but the rant is so pretentious and self-consciously 'profound' that I wanted to push the prince over the castle's ramparts, just to hear him go, 'Aaaaaaaaaaaaaah!' Splat.An even more visceral anger is reserved for the doctor and his son who, for some reason (i.e., idiocy), stay and listen to all of this baloney.
Una delle cose più folli che abbia mai letto.
Un libro che parla di gente malata e pazza e non recuperabile.Di gente sempre sul punto di togliersi la vita.La carrellata di personaggi assurdi va dall’industriale ritiratosi in un padiglione di caccia al figlio storpio dei Krainer che vive in un letto circondato da una gabbia.Le prime 50/60 pagine sono tese ma non irraggiungibili.
fino a portarti in un vortice claustrofobico senza via d’uscita.C’è solitudine, nichilismo, disperazione.Non è una lettura agevole.Al di là delle difficoltà, però, TB si conferma nel mio immaginario letterario un personaggio imprescindibile.Estremo ma fondamentale.
Letzteres dürfte Bernhards Absicht gewesen sein und das ist ihm, nicht nur in der Zeit des Erscheinens vor etwa 50 Jahren, vortrefflich gelungen.Der Roman zerfällt markant in zwei Teile, die kaum etwas gemein zu haben scheinen - verstörend, wenn man von einem Roman ein gewisses Maß an Zusammenhalt erwartet.
Das ist die unglaubliche Auffälligkeit gewesen«, sagte der Fürst, »daß ich nämlich mit dem Fortschreiten der Zeit immer mehr und von nichts anderem mehr als vom Hochwasser gesprochen habe, Ihr Herr Vater von nichts anderem mehr als vom Schauspiel.
-- this is early proto-Bernhard, with paragraph breaks, and so it seemed worth it to see glimmerings of the later refined style, the repetitive ranting, but nowhere near as intense, clear, and engaging as his later stuff.
The second half is mostly a crazy rant by a mad prince that I found engaging at first but less so as I continued because the madness is not as orchestrated as in later Bernhard books, it's not accompanied by genius, and so I found it difficult to stick with and ultimately skimmed some of it TBH.
Thus, after starting with the middle-period (The Loser, Concrete, Wittgenstein's Nephew, Woodcutters), I then turned backwards, to The Lime Works and Correction, and possibly would have stopped there, feeling that with Correction I'd at least grasped something of the deeper feeling that might motivate him; but still I wanted to see the style evolve, to catch it at its genesis, and so I went back still further to Gargoyles.
Yet his stories have a compulsion and exhilaration to them that capture the reader; and this is because all of his splenetic anger, his tortured monologues and wild despair at the unforgiving, relentless assault the world mounts upon its hapless and overmatched human victims is always the roiling armour that shields an immensely human core of hope, longing, and aching belief in redemption - in the longing for human contact amongst those who seemingly revile mankind - that works its own magic in leaving the reader (this one at least) uplifted.Each of us is completely isolated, although we are close.All of living is nothing but a fervid attempt to move closer together.Gargoyles is a direct step between Bernhard's style and method in Frost and his later novels; and it shows in that, at this still early stage of his brilliant career, its sythesis of the two styles is yet inferior to either.
Y que una literatura tan oscura, deprimente y pesimista como la de este escritor también te haga sonreír es verdaderamente sorprendente.La novela se compone de dos partes muy diferenciadas.
En la primera de ellas se nos da a conocer a un médico que vive en un paraje claustrofóbico, algo habitual en las historias de Bernhard, que va haciendo una ruta por todo este territorio visitando a diversos pacientes, a cual más trastornado, con sus pequeñas o grandes miserias.
I use "lovely" loosely here; I mean, from this first experience with Bernhard, I am assuming that the man was not a fan of Bob Ross or Mr. Rogers.
It wasn't quite so grating when it was the insane prince speaking (this section composing the second half of the book), as I understand that he is slowly revealing the cyclical nature of his thoughts, the noises in his brain, the constantly resurfacing fears and frustrations that are at the roots of his madness.
An example: For suddenly I saw quite clearly that the prince is mad, which had not been evident to me while he was talking about his interviews in the morning.
Eppure, per tutta la vita, non facciamo altro che guardare giù, al nostro abisso fisico e psichico, pur senza percepirlo”.Senza dubbio Perturbamento, secondo romanzo di Thomas Bernhard scritto in soli tre mesi, è un testo nichilista e inquietante.
Bernhard è un romantico efficace e talentuoso, il compositore di una lirica espressionista e gotica, dalla quale si sviluppa una scrittura classica che soccombe alla violenta potenza del vivere, tra Kafka e Beckett.
E così nella scena si affacciano figure mostruose e catastrofiche: l’ubriaco omicida, il maestro accusato di pedofilia, l'anziana solitaria con il figlio minorato, il ricco industriale morboso, uno storpio imprigionato, una famiglia di mugnai segnata dalla follia e dal lutto, tutto nell'ombra del castello di Hochgobernitz.
If you like reading the ramblings of the insane then this book will be a delight.
What if you don't like reading the ramblings of the insane?
Well, don't worry, if you like really good writing than this book should appeal to you too!
And I thought how lucky I am not to be a philistine, and then I felt a little bit of shame at being an elitist, but then thought fuck that, I can appreciate this book!!!

Dov'é la via d'uscita, la finestrella, la boccata espiatoria, caro Bernhard?"Ognuno di noi continua a parlare un linguaggio che non intende, ma che 'ogni tanto' viene inteso.
Il che ci permette di esistere e di essere quantomeno 'fraintesi'"."Gli uomini camminano insieme, dormono insieme, ma non si conoscono.
Se gli uomini si conoscessero non camminerebbero insieme, non dormirebbero insieme"."L'impossibilità è un fondamento davvero terrificante - disse - e tutto è fondato sull'impossibilità."Ah, eccola (ti è sfuggita?
Io comunque l'ho scovata):"C'erano attimi in cui mi sentivo in grado senza alcuno sforzo di penetrare con lo sguardo nella creazione, che altro non è se non un'immane estenuazione.
< Attimi> dissi".Attimi.Tali.Può bastare.
Very little is revealed about the main characters: the son and the doctor; yet, the story is narrated by the son.
We do find a few personal details regarding them and their family, but the story is focused on the patients and their various mental breakdowns.
The story turns into one long monologue of Prince Saurau who sounds like one unending Cioran rant.
This dream reveals more about Saurau’s mental state rather than anything about his son’s intention.
Saurau is the dark shadow and irrational of the doctor, who, throughout the novel, is rational, compassionate, and clear thinking.
It's like Bernhard is trying to show us the varieties of perversion of the outside world.
The forms of Gargoyle-ness that we must first gargle before swallowing.Then, in the last half of the book, we enter the perversion of the inside world.
The prince gives a long rant which fills up the last half of the book.
I'm not sure Bernhard really knew where he was going with this book, maybe it was just a convenient structure into which he could place a few short stories, and experiment with his budding rant-style...
Utisak...
Hm. Nisam ni razočaran (jer sam prošle godine čitao „Gubitnika”, koji me je očarao), a nisam ni oduševljen.
Tri zvezdice su svakako malo, Bernhardu se tehnički nema šta zameriti, u pogledu stila i sl.
Ali, recimo, ne znam kako bih vam predstavio roman ili čime bih vam ga preporučio jer me ništa posebno nije zaintrigiralo, iznenadilo itd.
S druge strane, pet zvezdica ne mogu da dam jer knjige kojima sam ih davao u poslednje vreme ostavile su mnogo jači i dublji utisak.Od Bernharda svakako ne odustajem, naprotiv.
A vama bih, na kraju, između „Gubitnika” i „Poremećaja”, pre preporučio prvu knjigu.
The picaresque reminded me of the wonderful Joseph Winkler, only Winkler does it better.
The rant reminds me of later Bernhard, which is, again, better than this version.
But there are a few nice moments here, most importantly what I take to be Bernhard naming his own literary form, to wit, "the onanism of despair." When the prince says this, he's criticizing the lumpen masses around him, but it's fairly clear that his own 100+ page rant is the real onanism, his despair the real despair (140-141).
But the show, the prince suggests, is a comedy--again, something that could be a manifesto for later Bernhard.
"The Smiths" are so depressing that whenever I finishing listening to them my heart is filled with joy again. Thomas Bernhard is so nihilistic that whenever I finish reading him my life is filled with meaning again. I suddenly felt the need to lie flat on the floor, stark naked. I undressed and lay down stark naked on the floor. At breakfast I told the others about it, but nobody laughed. I can certainly believe that this book represents a transition to his later outstanding works and as such wa
"The Smiths" are so depressing that whenever I finishing listening to them my heart is filled with joy again.
Thomas Bernhard is so nihilistic that whenever I finish reading him my life is filled with meaning again.
I suddenly felt the need to lie flat on the floor, stark naked.
I undressed and lay down stark naked on the floor.
Perturbamento è uno dei romanzi più pessimistici che io abbia mai letto.
Inutile aggiungere che, di conseguenza, non è mai stato molto amato in patria.
Più che di un vero proprio romanzo, forse, sarebbe più corretto parlare di un succedersi di monologhi, in cui i diversi personaggi espongono situazioni, avvenimenti e considerazioni che, a partire dal particolare, finiscono per esprimere il generale.
Nessuno viene risparmiato, neppure i due personaggi che fanno da “Virgilio” al lettore.Ma il peggio è che nel romanzo non vi è alcuna speranza, nessuno spiraglio attraverso il quale poter intravedere almeno una specie di via d’uscita.
Um silêncio crescente dá aí lugar ao longo discurso do príncipe Saurau, senhor da terra e seu prisioneiro, esse lugar frio, húmido e silencioso, do qual não se pode fugir senão à custa de si mesmo: "Contemplo horas a fio a serenidade que reina aqui em volta.
(...) é uma serenidade imutável que me modificou, que me modifica e que nos modifica a todos (...) O Hochgobernitz foi sendo totalmente invadido pela natureza exterior ao longo dos séculos.(...) É também assim que eu penso, envolvido por esta humidade e este frio.
If you have read an interview or read about Bernhard then it becomes immediately obvious that the man is a bit mad and a borderline nihilist.
However, his total willingness to take this world in with all his horror, tragedy and confusion is nothing short of amazing.Gargoyles is what one would expect from Bernhard.
It comes off all that more disturbing and fascinating than Kafka.The book follows a doctor and his son and the patients they attend to through the a rural area in Austria.
Very little is left not touched by Bernhard by the end.
In viaggio tra i monti e le valli della Stiria accompagniamo nel suo giro di visite il medico locale
A storm of madness, suicide, caged boys, disease, cruelty, and newspapers. The air is getting sucked out of our atmosphere and the prince won't stop talking...a modern inferno, a mixture of anger and beauty in the tradition of Beckett.
Ähnlich wie schon in Frost zeichnen sich einige der präsentierten Figuren als ungewöhnlich banale Existenzen, die in hohem Kontrast zu den anderen, völlig unglaubwürdigen Personenkonstruktionen gestellt werden.Langsam arbeitet sich der erste Teil des Buches so zum Zentrum des Textes vor, dem Fürsten Saurau, der hoch oben auf seiner Burg Hochgobernitz lebt und zu den letzten Stationen der Rundfahrt bereits Beziehungen hat, immer wieder am Rande erwähnt wird.In den Erinnerungen des Sohnes an die Rundfahrt mit dem Vater wird auch die Beziehung zwischen Vater, Sohn und der Schwester thematisiert, wobei hier allerdings nichts zu einem Abschluß kommt, diese familiären Bruchstücke bleiben auch unglaublich banal und im Endeffekt nur uninteressanter Hintergrund zum langen Monolog, der dem Buch dann eine ganz andere Wendung gibt.Endlich beim Saurau oben in der Burg angekommen, befinden wir uns erstmals in einer dieser Bernhard-Textprosamaschinen, die ein Ende nur als zufällige Begrenzung durch den hinteren Buchdeckel akzeptieren muss, abgesehen davon aber kein Interesse an gültigen Formalismen hat.Hier überstürzen sich die Begriffe und schon nach wenigen Seiten ist auch der letzte Rest an Glaubwürdigkeit weg, die verbliebenen Fragmente einer Geschichte mit Arzt und Arztsohn und allem anderen werden wie mit einem dreckigen Eimer Wasser vom Tisch gefegt.
Mentre la prima parte ci presenta, come suggerisce Bernardi nella postfazione, personaggi memorabili – ed è bellissimo figurarsi tutto questo in una Stiria verde, desolata, piena della follia dei consanguinei e degli ignoranti, in case sparse lontane dalla civiltà e dal passaggio del tempo - la seconda rappresenta un lungo monologo, con scrittura ad aforismi, che andrebbe a capo dopo ogni punto – perchè dopo ogni punto spesso il discorso è differente.
Un libro di misoginia, misantropia, malattia: tutte le peculiarità del carattere dello scrittore che realizza, come seconda prova, un opera davvero disturbante.
Metade do livro é, no fundo, uma preparação para o príncipe.
Ora, isto é tudo feito muito a meu gosto: o monólogo é bizarro, versa sobre loucura, solidão, a posição do homem genial no mundo, niilismo, sobranceira, etc.
As primeiras cinquenta páginas do monólogo (a coisa dura cento e tal) são absolutamente geniais, uma daquelas coisas que até dá tesão, mas a coisa perde dinâmica aos poucos, ou eu é que me fui cansando.Leva com carimbo de recomendado, sem dúvida, mesmo que tenha a certeza que muitos bons leitores não chegarão ao fim do discurso do Sarau.
I think the first half of the novel works better than the second, which is strange since the first half is less "Bernhardesque" than the last half.
But as with all his novels you can see that these voices, bordering on madness, are motivated by some tiny, almost-completely-dissolved kernel of belief in the possibility of a better humanity.Bernhard's not for everyone, and I can't think of any other writer of short novels (120 to 210 pages) who is so very difficult to push through, but he has something really powerful to offer.

"Io sono costruito interamente contro la realtà"."Vede, dottore, la natura mi appaga completamente, ma io muoio soffocato da questa natura che mi appaga completamente.
La realtà mi si presenta sempre come una rappresentazione orrenda di tutti i concetti esistenti.
Perché, comunque, ovviamente, siamo tutti condannati a pensare che non ci sia assolutamente nulla di reale".Nel suo secondo romanzo Thomas Bernhard riesce a dimostrare che- la filosofia non è attività usurpabile oppure lo è- il pensiero sul pensiero non è necessariamente evitabile- la filosofia e l'esistenza sono di per sé impraticabili - "l'aria metafisica" della Stiria allarga i respiri persi e fa bene all'anima di chi pensa di non possederne una.Sorridiamo, Bernhard ci guarda.
Raczej dla przekonanych / wielbicieli. Mając za pasem późniejsze „Wymazywanie” czy „Korektę” łatwiej wgryźć się w „Zaburzenie”; nic dziwnego, że w 1967 roku wielu nie miało pojęcia, co począć z tą powieścią, w której wykuwają się bernhardowskie motywy i stylistyczne idiosynkrazje. Ciekawe, że monolog szaleńca obudowany jest tu jeszcze - przynajmniej do pewnego stopnia - trzecioosobową perspektywą, która w późniejszych tekstach właściwie zanika. Niezwykłe doświadczenie, niełatwa lektura. Fenomenalny przekład Sławy Lisieckiej (Bernhard w ogóle ma u nas szczęście do tłumaczy).
This lil tidbit came as last line of "Life" category on Wiki-page Thomas Bernhard.
How apropos I should think "he" would have thought - although I'm surprised there was even a funeral - who (?) would have attended but other morbidly sick individuals coursing for their own demise?
But then, why am I (?), too, enthralled/mesmerized by this man's macabre look on life, his retching on the page book after book, mostly the same, suicide, sickly sister relationship and father and mother and fellow citizens/country AND almost everything/everyone - didn't even Schopenhauer have SOME uplifting thoughts?
