https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25322.The_Moons_of_Jupiter
Moons includes some of my all-time favourite Munro stories: the opening, two-part "Chaddeleys And Flemings," about the narrator's memories of her mother's and her father's families; the much-anthologized charmer "The Turkey Season," about a young girl's discovery of jealousy, sexual competition and humiliation while working at a turkey-gutting farm one Christmas; "Dulse," a tough look at a middle-aged poet's recovery from an affair (there's a nice subplot about a Willa Cather fan in this one); the mysterious "Labor Day Dinner," which has a conclusion that I still find thrilling; "Accident," which recounts an affair tinged by tragedy and features one of those time-leaping finales I mentioned earlier; and the poignant title tale, a personal story about a writer visiting her father in the hospital, which connects back to the book's opening diptych.
En sus historias, todas breves, se destacan mujeres fuertes y decididas, seguras de sí mismas pero agobiadas por conflictos tanto internos como externos, todo esto sin dejar de mostrar las vulnerabilidades inherentes al ser humano.
El relato que mejor distingue esto, y creo que es mi favorito junto con "Chaddeleys and Flemings I y II", es “Labor Day Dinner”.La escritura es limpia, con un vocabulario refinado pero no demasiado y unas descripciones de Canadá que personalmente me parecieron espectaculares.Lo que tengo que criticarle a este libro es que sus relatos son prácticamente monotemáticos y simples, simples en exceso para mi gusto, y no me llevo mucho de cada uno.

Every story has a turn of phrase, at least one and often more, that is undeniably perfect, which cuts to the bone and a little deeper, hits the heart, and goes deeper because it is filled with a sadness that aches as though it depresses and moves the body through space - a sadness and reality that is, somehow, the very motivational discovery of humanity.And this is the reality that I find when reading Munro - every now and then you read a story like "Accident" or "Labor Day Dinner" or "The Turkey Season" which are quite good, much better than most other stories you read from most any other writer, the kind of works that are masterful in many technical ways and which will keep you up at night as you race through hoping to finish before sleep once again claims you.
I love the stories with a more tragic, dramatic tone of voice that show simple lives in all its glory.Frances, music teacher in a small town has been waiting for the moment that her life ould start.
Mothering the new guy, drinking tea, playing cards and scrabble and then struggling to get back to your room.I always like it when stories aren't about the bold, the young and the beautiful, but about something simple, a small moment of life, a normal person.Ans this one has got a beautiful yet simple end scene to match.9.
Un tema che ricorre spesso è quello della ricerca delle origini, il sasso nel podere sotto il quale era sepolto il corteggiatore di una zia, la ricerca della cascina entro la quale si è nati, ed entrambi non si troveranno più, la pietra spostata per non intralciare le macchine agricole, la cascina distrutta dalle intemperie.
La conclusione di queste rivisitazioni del passato è sempre stupore per il coraggio degli antenati che avevano attraversato l’Atlantico per migliorare la loro condizione, la forza di cui avevano dato prova nella lotta per la sopravvivenza in un paese selvaggio, la gratitudine di essere nati nel ventesimo secolo, nel quale le donne non sono più tiranneggiate dagli uomini di famiglia: almeno non in Canada.
Munro's stories are a delight to read, and this collection is no exception.
For me, she is one of the hardest writers to read as a writer.
I mean, her technique is so seamless that it can be very hard to pick it apart to learn from.
The shift is there, and for good reason, but Munro's technique sits in the background working its magic.
There is so much to learn from these stories, but the technique is so good you really have to work to find where it is hidden.
أليس مونرو الحائزة على نوبل في الآداب لعام 2013.لتحميل هذا الكتاب مجاناًhttp://www.hindawi.org/kalimat/49303746/
Aunque Las lunas de Júpiter no es el libro más reciente de Munro y refleja, según parece, una etapa de su obra que la autora canadiense ya superó, muestra un talento y una atención al detalle enormes.
Todos los personajes de los cuentos están perfectamente bien construidos y resultan interesantes incluso en las narraciones más flojas.
La construcción de sus cuentos parece calculada y bien trabajada.
Excelente autora, bien merecedora a mi parecer de los galardones que se le han otorgado.
Mis cuentos favoritos del volumen fueron: "Prue", "Accidente", "La señora Cross y la Señora Kidd" y "Las lunas de Júpiter".
It feels like a transitional book among her stories - stories of the woman leaving her family, the lone-ness of striking out on her own, portraits of relationships in those key decisive moments of continuing but knowing the ending is near.
I love the two-part story that opens this book "Chaddeleys and Flemings" and how she disparately connects a childhood observation of visiting aunts from both sides of her parents' families.
Same goes for other moments in this book like the very short "Prue" and the oblique "Labor Day Dinner"....
When I constrain myself to sit and describe a collection of stories from Alice Munro I find myself unusually timid; they have the abundance and detail of longer fiction, so every book is like a family of novels or a garden of ornamented individuals.
Their roots may have a reach that is tenuous or significant, they may be fragile seedlings or hardy adults or have died in the winter; regardless, they all have in common the parent soil.
If the ground has been previously trodden then Munro is the first to plant there; if the soil has been turned, then down she will bend to the earth and wrap in it the seeds of a foreign fair.
Terminado, ¡Por fin! Tres años me ha costado leerlo, precisamente porque no me estaba gustando, claro.Si no me equivoco, de las doce historias sólo me han "gustado" 3, y esas tres, sin entusiasmo, vamos, un simple "no está mal".Todas las historias tienen en común tener como protagonistas a mujeres que se encuentran "al borde del abismo" pero que conservan un rayito de esperanza. Pero la verdad, a mí me han dejado fría.Posiblemente algún día le daré otra oportunidad a esta escritora ganadora del Nobel, pero no creo que sea pronto.
Her characters constantly struggle to connect with men in meaningful ways, and at points I felt like the overall connecting motif of the work was simply the inability for women of a certain disposition to ever find love.
Almost every woman in the collection has been divorced, which strikes a certain autobiographical resonance, but failed to interest me for more than two or three stories.I have a number of friends in Southern Ontario, so I enjoyed (almost too much) knowing most of the place names and having someone to ask in case I didn't.Overall, I enjoyed seeing Munro examine the female heart and respected the attention paid, historically, to seeing the struggle women have faced toward self-expression.
مونرو تكتب أدبا حقيقيا مليئا بتفاصيل إنسانية مخيفة، ﻻ يملك تجميعها سوى كاتب، كاتب مجنون.هناك تصنيف لدي يضم مجموعة من الكتاب على رأسهم ويليام فوكنر، أسميه العباقرة ذوو اﻷخﻻق، مونرو انضمت بجدارة للمجموعة..
القصص متباينة الجودة بالتأكيد، وقد تصيب كثيرين ممن لا يهون هذه التفاصيل الانسانية المعقدة، قد تصيبهم بالملل، بالنسبة لي الكتاب شديد اﻹمتاع، وﻻ استطيع ان افضل قصة على اخرى بحكم اني قرأته في فترة طويلة نسبيا..
لكن ما ﻻحظته على مونرو شيئين: اﻷول هي ﻻ تجيد النهايات..
اخيرا وهو شيء شديد الذاتية بصفتي كاتب: أليس مونرو مثلي تماما ﻻ تقدر على ادارة حوار كامل..
The first few stories in this collection were incredible: moving and vivid, just as I expect from this master of short stories.
However, most of the other stories were forgettable.
The title story, Moons of Jupiter, was about an author coming to grips with her father’s heart valve transplant, 2 grown children who have gone their own, secretive ways, and her own interests in writing and fashion.
Like the moons of Jupiter, there they are moving around in the sky whether people watch them or not.
Another great collection by Alice Munro.
What I love about her stories is that there are no huge dramas, no great epiphanies.
Now that I have read five of her books, I notice that the women in the stories are getting older, and they are moving further from the woods and small towns of her earlier books.
I see her writing as an ideal companion as I get older, too.
When I finish a collection of her stories, they stay with me in that I think of my own life in new ways.
Quite possibly the most boring and pointless book ever.
Terävää ja tarkkaavaista kerrontaa rakkaudesta, pidin kovasti.
When I read this 3 years ago, it stood out as my favorite to date.
I am not certain that I can any longer claim a favorite Alice collection because each one as I read it is my favorite.
The majority of these stories were written in the 1970s, and as Alice would have been, most of her characters are in their 40s.
I'm not sure if I am becoming more accustomed to her writing, or if I am becoming more accustomed to reading short stories.
This is my favorite collection so far.
It feels like a novel just about to plunge into the heart of its tale and then being slashed off.Also, although the characters are thoroughly well-defined and bursting with life, the details of their life and environment leave much to be desired.
Perhaps it makes one more attentive to the characters that populate her stories, but I find it a bit of a let-down.Nor is there anything eclectic about this collection.
If one was unaware it was a short-story collection they may move bemusedly from one tale to another without realizing much of a change.So. Yeahh.
Munro is brilliant at capturing the fleeting emotion; the thoughts percolating under everyday life; the growth, quirks, and fall of relationships...I am tempted to quote some brilliant lines from the stories, but they are so much better within the stories themselves as you are pulled into the world of whatever characters she is following.
(Brett Easton Ellis WISHES he could bring this kind of wisdom to life in a story.) I am glad that I have many more collections of Munro's stories to read.
This is what I wish I could write.
I love Alice Munro.
Her writing is so finely crafted, simple, in a way, that it falls away from the constructions of characters...lives, really, that makes them seem like personal memories.
She leaves me, not just with a description of an afternoon, but with the smells of the porch, the sounds of birds, the shattering of consciousness after the accident that didn't happen.
When I get covetousness over her skill, I realize that what happens in her stories is the way her mind works, it isn't learning how to use tools.
She is Alice Munro.
Has paid the price in focus and work, and I am grateful.
Publicado en http://lecturaylocura.com/las-lunas-d...Una de las pocas cosas con la que estoy de acuerdo con el polémico Franzen es que recomienda leer a Munro; por una vez y sin que sirva de precedente.Ya hablé bastante de “La vida de las mujeres” y desvelaba algunos de los secretos que utiliza con frecuencia; bueno, en realidad, lo decía ella misma en el increíble epílogo a ese ciclo de relatos cortos estructurado como novela.En esta ocasión tenemos ya el típico libro de relatos ambientados en el sur de Canadá y es una buena forma de comprobar el hilo conductor de la trama; sigue utilizando lo cotidiano, naturalmente utiliza mujeres como narradoras en primera persona; aquí, además, reflexiona sobre el pasado pero, afortunadamente, va mucho más allá de la simple nostalgia.
Hoja tras hoja me fui dejando envolver por la prosa de Munro (manejada con una maestría tal como pocas veces se ve a últimas fechas)hasta el punto que mucho antes de terminar el libro ya no me refería a "esos idiotas del Nobel", sino a los "ejemplares miembros del comité del Nobel", que con tan buen tino habían elegido a la Señora Munro para la presea.Y bueno, ¿de qué va "Las lunas de Júpiter"?
Sus personajes son complejos, pero están retratados con una delicadeza tal y de un modo tan rico que los 11 relatos pronto de tornan en una plétora de historias, mucho más profunda de lo que la extensión del texto sugiere.
which is why she is one of my favourite authors, and why I have read so many of her works, even if they have recurrent concerns and plots.I gave this three stars because this does feel like the embryo of several of what would become her more mature ideas - on things as specific as relationships between the aged in a nursing home.Alas, just to add that I have, without success, tried to recommend Munro to at least one friend and one (ex-)student.
Es impresionante la forma en que Munro hurgar en la mente de sus protagonistas femeninas trasmitiendo un mensaje coherente hasta de las personalidades más extremas.
El lenguaje es sencillo y a la vez muy cuidado, creando esa sensación de falsa facilidad que tanto cuesta a los escritores.
El hilo conductor suele ser la visión femenina del mundo, muchas veces en relación con el amor y el sexo, las dos grandes pasiones que rigen el universo de la mujer.
Me ha resultado muy fácil creerme a los personajes de Munro así como sus historias.
En definitiva, me ha sorprendido muy positivamente esta autora y estoy segura de que repetiré leyéndola.
apparentemente nei racconti di alice munro non succede nulla- e invece, pian piano, si svelano i movimento dell'anima dei personaggi descritti e le loro piccole storie diventano quelle di chi legge. grande scrittrice: per la compassione, il dolore e l'umanità che sa raccontare. i migliori: la stagione dei tacchini, le lune di giove, l'incidente, bardon, autobus n. 144, dulse.
Last year I read Crime and Punishment in the bath and it got to be a race to finish the book before I lost the last few pages.
It's a funny kind of dilemma to have.I've just started reading, for the third time, A Confederacy of Dunces.
My landlords had a box of books that had been sitting in the cellar for months, they told me I could take anything I liked, they were eventually going to take them to donate to the library.I found this unread copy, and since it was free, and the third time I'd read it, I began reading it in the bath.
My favorite stories were the opening and the closing: "Chaddeleys and Flemings" and "the Moons of Jupiter." They revolved around similar themes of family history and yet left me with different questions at the end.
"Chaddeleys and Flemings" left me wondering about the human ability to construct narratives and stories, even for those we have never met.
And "the Moons of Jupiter" left me with the existential question: "What are we doing here on earth?" As I said, these stories were pretty thought-provoking.
None the less, Munro's uncanny ability to construct these large themes in seemingly domestic, working-class stories is what makes her such an amazing author.
An age at which it is sometimes hard to admit that what you are living is your life." This is the first collection of stories by Alice Munro I have read.
I checked out a hard cover edition from the library of the school I work at and read roughly one story a day, until inclement weather provided me with a much extended weekend.
I'm not surprised I enjoyed the entire collection but a handful of the stories were emotionally striking and brilliantly written.
Striking in both affect and execution.
"Accident," "Labor Day Dinner, ""Hard-Luck Stories," and "The Moons of Jupiter." Highly recommended.
