https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10799.A_Farewell_to_Arms
I feel like awarding the great Hemingway only two stars has officially consigned me to the seventh circle of literary hell.
I went on home." (FOR THE LOVE WILL SOMEBODY HELP THIS GUY GET HOME????)"I came up onto a road.
I went on down the road." (FOR THE LOVE WILL SOMEBODY HELP THIS GUY GO ON DOWN THE ROAD???)And now that I've slammed him so hard, here is a glimpse at the genius that allows him to get away with it all.FAVORITE QUOTES:"If people bring so much courage to this world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills them.
The old joke proves itself upon reading.Q: Why did the chicken cross the road?A (Hemingway): To die. In the rain.
I am the original author of this essay, as well as the owner of CCLaP; it is not being reprinted here illegally.)The CCLaP 100: In which I read a hundred so-called "classics" for the first time, then write reports on whether or not they deserve the labelBook #17: A Farewell to Arms, by Ernest Hemingway (1929)The story in a nutshell:Published in the late 1920s, right when Modernism was first starting to become a commercially successful form of the arts, A Farewell to Arms is Ernest Hemingway's wry and cynical look at World War I, the event that most defined not only his generation but also the beginning of the Modernist movement.
I guess I shouldn't be surprised at Hemingway's one-dimensional, sexist portrayal of Catherine Barker, having read much of his other work, but somehow I still am.
Does Hemingway believe women think and talk like this, or does he mean to make his female characters sound like would-be wife-pets?
But as much as I'd like to think that that was what Hemingway was going for, I don't know...)As for the rest of the book, I suppose an argument could be made for its "ground-breaking" sexual frankness or for the necessarily graphic depictions of the front, and I'll buy that.
I'm not a Hemingway guy. I yearn for internal dialogue, various and ladened spiritual questioning, and deep psychology in my characters. I prefer writing that is smooth and philosophical. Hemingway gives me little of this.But the settings of this book were beautiful, and the dialogue between characters, poignant. By the end, I found that Hemingway had craftily fucked with me to the point of my complete immersion into the novel. It made me cry.
War is Boring Hemingway’s narrator writes not as a soldier but as a journalist-soldier, channeling Hemingway himself, recording with precision and apparent objectivity the things that happen around him and to him - practical and prosaic and always pragmatic about everything. People die and bombs explode in the same paragraph as the one where breakfast was considered with equal interest, and he takes it all in his stride.As best as I can tell, the action of A Farewell to Arms takes place from 19
People die and bombs explode in the same paragraph as the one where breakfast was considered with equal interest, and he takes it all in his stride.As best as I can tell, the action of A Farewell to Arms takes place from 1916 and before the end of the war.
After all, the famous ending doesn’t leave us with much to pick up the pieces after.The narrator tells the often ugly truth about war, without even trying to be anti-war in any way.
Almost as effective as comedy, if you ask me.While it is hard to interpret A Farewell to Arms as hopeful, to me it was so, though in a subtle way.
663. A Farewell to Arms, Ernest HemingwayA Farewell to Arms is a novel by Ernest Hemingway set during the Italian campaign of World War I. The book, published in 1929, is a first-person account of American Frederic Henry, serving as a lieutenant ("tenente") in the ambulance corps of the Italian Army. The title is taken from a poem by 16th-century English dramatist George Peele. A Farewell to Arms is about a love affair between the expatriate American Frederic Henry and Catherine Barkley against
The publication of A Farewell to Arms cemented Hemingway's stature as a modern American writer, became his first best-seller, and is described by biographer Michael Reynolds as "the premier American war novel from that debacle World War I."تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه اکتبر سال 1972 میلادیعنوان: وداع با اسلحه؛ نویسنده: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: نجف دریابندری؛ تهران، سازمان کتابهای جیبی؛ 1340؛ در 276 ص؛ چاپ 1344 در 346 ص؛ چاپ 1362 در 410 ص؛ چاپ هفتم در 410 ص؛ چاپ نیلوفر، 1376، در 423 ص؛ چاپ دوازدهم 1382؛ چهاردهم 1387؛ شانزدهم 1392؛ شابک: 9789644480591؛ موضوع: داستانهای جنگ جهانگیر نخست - 1914 تا 1918 میلادی - قرن 20 معنوان: وداع با اسلحه؛ نویسنده: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: ر.
Sure enough we found a museum in the village dedicated to a big battle that had taken place there during the First World War. The people at the museum pointed at the mountain slopes and I don't remember exactly what they told us but I remember feeling sick and upset and thinking that I ought to know more about what had happened there and why.The Italian army had gotten through a lot of ambulances during that war and one of the men who drove the ambulances at Kobarid was an American called Ernest Hemingway.
I've been reading more on World War I this past year and thought A Farewell to Arms would fit both my WWI interest and my goal of appreciating classics.
Catherine plays the love interest in this novel, and she is so insipid, silly and annoying that I started dreading this book.The story follows Frederic Henry, an American serving as an ambulance driver in the Italian army during the war.
Both are good actors doing their best with mediocre texts.If I were going to recommend a World War I novel to someone, I would tell them to read All Quiet on the Western Front, and to skip Farewell.
این کتاب زاویه دید متفاوتی از جنگ را روایت میکنهو البته باز قهرمان کتاب مردی است با شخصیتی خاصافسری 
The love story aspect will appeal to some that aren't so much into the other stuff, and the war stuff will do for still more, maybe.
A good reader needs a quality that draws a listener in - but this one did just the opposite.
I struggled on through about 3 discs and I just could not stand the reader enough to get into the story.
Lots of pointless dialogue that, I suppose, in the end would have painted a full picture and come together, but I just found myself not caring at all.
It'll do you good like I say.
What's he saying?""Go sit back down, I'll tell you everything in a minute.
It is a love story that lasts an hour, a night, a life; which fills the void of man's solitude with the horror of war; which grows in the face of the absurdity of great words such as "duty and honor".A rich vocabulary and a very particular rhythm made of small sentences and numerous repetitions gives the Italian tone to this novel yet very American.
It is a well researched novel, a powerful novel, a real novel where man finds himself naked face her fears, facing its joys, a modern novel in tone, a great novel!The first pages disturbed me a little, I understood the meaning without understanding the style.
Shortly after, while waiting in a ditch at the front, for the bombardment to halt, a mortar shell hits, killing one of his men and badly wounding him, in both legs.The ambulance will take the driver for a ride not in front, this time, but in the back, he the young American, feels a warm liquid dropping from the top, the blood oozing out of another soldier, will not stop, Henry can't move, just endure, until there is no more.
A novel based on Hemingway's experiences in the war, he was a 19 -year old ambulance driver, almost dying of battle wounds, and having an unhappy affair with an older nurse.
I liked this so much that I cried while finally closing the book.It must be the way Hemingway used his magic: the vivid descriptions of his locale.
However, in the end, the moon ceased to shine and the sun tried to light up the sky but it was raining and the novel ended sad and the sun, being alone, was still lonely.
This image was the reason why I cried.Apart from that sad ending, I also did not enjoy Catherine's delivery of dialogues particularly when she talked to her lover.
I've never read any Hemingway, so I thought to myself, 'Self, that is probably something you should remedy.' And now there are a couple of hours of my life that I will never get back.
The macho posturing, the awful dialogue (if it were possible to have excised every word he put into the mouth of Catherine, I would have done so), the misogyny, the sometimes bizarre interactions between people...
whatever the hell he was trying to do, for me it read as if everyone was either: 1) Certifiably insane, 2) an alien with no knowledge of human interaction or 3) a certifiably insane alien with no knowledge of human interaction.
A vapid book full of vapid people.
Ernest Hemingway takes a lame story, and then he tells it in a boring way.
"I was blown up while we were eating cheese."What can I say that hasn't already been said?Yes, the man/woman stuff is awkward as hell, with all the "Darlings" and "Say you love me" coming off as so much bad movie dialogue.But, I loved hearing all the characters give their opinions on the war.
The action sequences are compelling, and frequently disturbing.And, Henry's repartee with Rinaldi is absolutely priceless!Plus, considering this is a story about war, the book had far more laughs that I was expecting, so here's to you, Papa!I truly enjoyed listening to the audiobook.
John Slattery, who is perhaps best known as Roger Sterling from Mad Men, did a fantastic job, and made the book come to life.
The writing is brilliant, such as in Hemingway's famous line about how the world breaks us all: We were never lonely and never afraid when we were together.
But with Catherine there was almost no difference in the night except that it was an even better time.
The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the broken places.
But those that will not break it kills.
I place this in the middle of For Whom the Bell Tolls, which ends badly but is full of passion and love, and The Sun Also Rises, which is like an early 20th century The Real World.
I couldn't settle into the prose and, more importantly, I couldn't handle Catherine: "I'll say just what you wish and I'll do what you wish and then you will never want any other girls, will you?" Gah. I couldn't accept either Catherine or her relationship with Frederick as at all real, and because I assumed they were supposed to be not only real but also good (or pure or ideal or something like that), it completely turned me off the book.This time I read Catherine and Frederick (especially Catherine) as damaged and completely desperate, which made her and the love story believable, acceptable, and very sad.
Patosul cu care este descrisă iubirea în cea de-a două parte a romanului şi tragicul final al acestuia (care l-a făcut pe Hemingway să se retragă în singurătate) reprezintă o experienţă profundă, o experienţă a cărei urmare a fost încolţirea nimbului artistic.
Stilul lui Hemingway este succint şi arareori are fragmente în care să descrie stări, lăsând, deci, la latitudinea cititorului să interpreteze incertitudinea trăirilor atât de evidenţiată în scrierile sale.S-a făcut şi un film, "In love and war", doar că e mult modificat subiectul, însă finalul filmului mi se pare mult mai copleşitor decât finalul romanului...
He enlists in the Italian army as an ambulance driver, prior to America even entering the war.
This mirrors Hemingway’s life in that he too volunteered to be an ambulance driver in the Italian army, years prior to America’s entrance into the war.
In the novel, Lieutenant Henry develops close friendships with Rinaldi, an Italian surgeon, and a nameless priest.
as I do not want to ruin the novel for anyone.I listened to the audible version read by John Slattery which I highly recommend.
اگر فیلم سخیفSilver Linings Playbookرا دیده باشید، یادتان هست که شخصیت اصلی فیلم ساعتها و ساعتها همین کتاب را میخواند و بعد که تمام میشود با گفتن جملهای که آوردنش در اینجا خوشایند نیست، کتاب را از پنجره پرت میکند بیرون. من از آنجا یادم بود که کتاب پایان تلخی دارد. ولی برخلاف شخصیت اصلی فیلم مشکلم پایانهی داستان نیست و حتا فکر میکنم این پایانه خیلی هم درخشان است. در بین تمام کتابهایی که دربارهی جنگ خواندهام کتاب وداع با اسلحه نمیتواند جایگاه منحصربهفردی داشته باشد. بگذارید بهتان بگویم که در یک رت
اگر فیلم سخیفSilver Linings Playbookرا دیده باشید، یادتان هست که شخصیت اصلی فیلم ساعت‌ها و ساعت‌ها همین کتاب را می‌خواند و بعد که تمام می‌شود با گفتن جمله‌ای که آوردنش در این‌جا خوشایند نیست، کتاب را از پنجره پرت می‌کند بیرون.
ولی برخلاف شخصیت اصلی فیلم مشکلم پایانه‌ی داستان نیست و حتا فکر می‌کنم این پایانه‌ خیلی هم درخشان است.
در بین تمام کتاب‌هایی که درباره‌ی جنگ خواند‌ه‌ام کتاب وداع با اسلحه نمی‌تواند جایگاه منحصربه‌فردی داشته باشد.
بگذارید بهتان بگویم که در یک رتبه‌بندی منصفانه این کتاب چندین پله پایین‌تر از کتاب‌های هاینریش بل قرار می‌گیرد.
I finally read something more from Hemingway besides the damn fish book!
As in war, there can be no happy endings in life, and the catastrophic fall that I felt was coming for these people from very early in the novel came fast and hard and it got to me.
In the end I felt as gutted as the aftermath of a battle.
You never had time to learn.
They threw you in and told you the rules and the first time they caught you off base they killed you.
She'll cut a bitch.The Waiter, self-explanatory.Distressed Customer #1, Only has one line.Dying Man, just proposed to his girlfriend.Dying Man's Fiance, happy, but frightened her dude will croak before they tie the knot.Harold Bloom, asshole.SCENE 1: The DateCatherine: Oh, Henry, I do so love you, and I hope you don't tire of me.
*makes whipping noise, does the accompanying arm gesture*Joy: I most certainly did not, and I don't know what something like that would mean.Catherine: Well, I'm confident I saw you do it.Joy: I had a thing on my arm.
For Whom the Bell Tolls is much better, first because it's about something bigger than just two people trying to get married (Robert Jordan struggled with the concept of heroism and how war changes people; Frederick Henry just wants to get laid), and also because the characters in A Farewell to Arms are significantly less complex and interesting than the ones in For Whom the Bell Tolls.
Also, Catherine Barkley is just an absolute nightmare of a character - she has no discernible personality and exists just to gratify and worship Henry, to the extent that she makes Bella Swan look like an independent strong woman overflowing with self-esteem.
Observational tragedy. Bloke falls for sub-moron during war. *petitions friendly bombs*Hemmingway absolves language of beauty. And then the world. His intent was to expose war's mundanity. His method rendered art menial.*sarcastic applause*
There were many words that you could not stand to hear and finally only the names of places had dignity. If Voltaire had read Hemingway’s famous war novel, I’d wager that he would pronounce that it is neither about war nor a novel. Compared to All Quiet on the Western Front, for example, the descriptions of war in this book are ludicrously tame. The vast majority of the time the narrator is not even at the front; and when he is, he is far behind the front lines, driving an ambulance. The bulk o
The bulk of the book is taken up, instead, by a love story.
The war forms the backdrop—though admittedly a very conspicuous backdrop—and is not the main thread of the book.What of the novel?
In Hemingway’s novel, the universe itself is malevolent, even sadistic, and humans just confused defenseless creatures caught in its maw.Thus I am a bit perplexed that some people see this as an anti-war novel.
You can argue that the novel’s bleak atmosphere reflects the fatalism and the pessimism engendered by the war: a nihilistic perspective that is carried over into every phase of life—even love.
There is something so fulfilling in Mr Hemingway's achievement in 'A Farewell to Arms' that one is left speculating as to whether another novel will follow in this manner, and whether it does not complete both a period and a phase.The story begins with such beautiful mannerisms which is a subtle way to undertake a book where the centre stage is that of war, with the love-making between the young American hero, Henry, a volunteer in the Italian Ambulance Service, and Catherine Barkley, an English nurse in the British hospital at Goritzia.
Apparently this was a period which Hemingway viewed as one of the most formative experiences of his life.This is the only Hemingway that I have read thus far and chose this one as I’d understood that ‘Farewell to Arms’ was generally viewed as Hemingway at the ‘height of his literary powers’.
Published in the same year as Remarque’s ‘All Quiet on the Western Front’ (sometimes cited as the ‘best war novel of all time’ – understandably) – ‘Farewell to Arms’ does not bear comparison and maybe shouldn’t be compared.
Ho scoperto che alcune di quelle parole mi si erano conficcate dentro.Non avete mai letto niente di E.H.?Mi verrebbe da consigliarvi di partire con l’introduzione a questo libro (che lui scrisse nel 1948) per capire se è un autore che può fare per voiIl fatto che la materia del libro fosse tragica non mi rendeva infelice, perché ero sicuro che la vita è una tragedia e finisce sempre allo stesso modo.
Non avevo ancora compiuto i trent'anni quando terminai il libro, e uscì nel giorno del crollo in borsa.Ho pensato sempre che mio padre avrebbe potuto aspettare fino a quel giorno, ma forse aveva fretta.
