https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9807.Italian_Folktales
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: از هفتم ژوئن سال 2011 میلادی تا هشتم ژوئن سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: افسانه های ایتالیایی؛ نویسنده: ایتالوکالوینو؛ مترجم: محسن ابراهیم؛ تهران، نشر نیلا، 1378، در 516 ص، شابک: 9646900003؛ موضوع: افسانه ها و قصه های ایتالیائی - قرن 20 ممجموعه ای از فولکلور و افسانه های ايتاليایی، کالوینو دویست داستان را از مجموعه افسانه های ایتالیا برگزیده، جناب آقای محسن ابراهیم نیز دست به انتخاب زده، و یکصد داستان از دویست برگزیده است.
افسانه های ملل، همیشه اشتراکاتی با دیگر ملل نیز دارند، در کتاب: ماه پیشونی، نخودی، حسن تنبل، حسن کچل، و حتی افسانه ای از حضرت خضر، میتوان یافت، البته که با رنگ و بوی کاتولیکی، و ایتالیائی، و با نیش قلم سحرآمیز ایتالو کالوینو.
Needless to say, I preferred my great-aunt.Later on, I came to read and love the Classics Junior series of comics (sadly out of print now, alas) which introduced me to the Brothers Grimm (Snow White, Little Red Riding Hood, Jack and the Beanstalk, Beauty and the Beast et al), and I was hooked for life on the magic of fairy tales, and the world of make-believe and fantasy.
I was surprised to find that the “King of India” makes his appearance in one story.◾Some of these tales are romances, as pointed out by Calvino: for example, the tale of the Slave Mother, kidnapped by Turkish pirates.
There is no reason for this not to be a favorite book for kids -- it's exciting, full of an enormous number (200!) of vivid stories perfect in size for a child's attention span (just a few pages each).
There's also, though, no reason for this not to be a favorite book for adults.
Each story is a perfect little gem, sometimes dark but never grim (or, for that matter, Grimm), sometimes wry and funny but never mean-spirited, and on and on and on.I've started reading these to my days-old son, ostensibly for his benefit but really for my own.
I started reading it in 2015 for a group read, and finished about a third.
At the start of this year, I decided I would read 10 fairy tales from it between every print book I finished.
I enjoyed the process so much I'm going to start doing that with another fairy tale collection.And I literally read it to pieces.
I'm going to have to upgrade to a hardback version!These tales are magical.
Or any fairytale fan needs to read this.
Or if you think you're not a fairytale fan, then maybe you should read this.So much fun and weirdness.
My mother gave me this book when I was seven years old.
She got it from a salesman who was smart enough to convince her that the book was perfect for a seven years old, even though it was a book of more than a thousand pages, and an expensive one, with an heavy binding that made it difficult for a little boy to handle.
German and Nordic folktales in comparison were for little kid, I thought back then.It was because of this book that I later fell in love with the magnificent work of Italo Calvino.
Useful reference material. To be admired for the approach and scholarship. Otherwise bland.
Le fiabe sono il catalogo dei destini che possono darsi a un uomo e una donna
(I know some of you are thinking I'm awful for that right now and are taking a moment to think the worst of me.) Thankfully, Italo Calvino lent his hand to the collecting and retelling of Italian folktales and so all the stories in this book have his excellent gift for entertaining telling.
It's okay to take the occasional break from reading the tales however I recommend that you do not give it up for more than a few minutes at a time!
If you have your doubts about how good this collection might be I'll have you know that this book is so well liked that I have had it stolen from me, twice.
I wish my parents had read this aloud to me when I was little- perhaps one of the best collections of fairy tales I've ever read.
Calvino finds a very strong narrative voice while still managing to balance his own typical style and the speaking style of those who told him the stories in the first place.
My favorite is a similar story to little red riding hood except with an ogre..."Grandmother, what a big neck you have...""I've always worn such heavy jeweled necklaces my dear.""Grandmother, what hairy hips you have...""I always wore my corset a bit too tight my dear."
Calvino wanted to be Italy's Brothers Grimm.
He notes that he also, like the Grimms, spruced up the tales.
Unlike them, he put in end notes about what tales he combined, and what little details he added.
A few are retellings of Greek myths, like Perseus, or the Cyclopes, after they are run through the folkloric lathe to pare them down to simplicity.
A few others are obviously derived from the chivalric romance, also pared down.A familiarity with many tales will often recognize them and what fillips Italy added -- which sometimes Calvino noted as well.
"Misfortune" is one I've only run across in Mediterranean tales -- a heroine whose Fortune is bad.
Instead of making myself write the book I ought to write, the novel that was expected of me, I conjured up the book I myself would have liked to read, the sort by an unknown writer, from another age and another country, discovered in an attic."[29] The result was Il visconte dimezzato (1952; The Cloven Viscount) composed in 30 days between July and September 1951.
This extensive collection of Italian tales not only has similarities to some very familiar stories but some also have threads of Arabic tales and Roman myths.
This is my first experience of Italian folktales outside of Roman mythology, so one of the things I don't really understand is the fascination with the Kings and Queens of Spain or Portugal -- they were mentioned in a great number of stories -- but this connection was never really explained.
There is a section at the end of Author's notes in which Calvino explains where he found each story or added some additional information.
RICORDI D'INFANZIALe fiabe raccolte da Calvino sono "diverse", nonostante gli stereotipi.
Sarà stato perché mia madre era solita leggermele quando ero piccola (Zio Lupo era una presenza fissa nei miei incubi!), ma sono state capaci tuttora di affascinarmi e trasportarmi in mondi magici in cui tutto è possibile."La bambina andò alla casa di Zio Lupo.
Bussò: Bum, bum.- Chi è?- Sono io!- Tanti anni, tanti mesi che nessuno batte più a questa porta!
Cosa vuoi?- Mi manda la mamma, a chiedervi se ci prestate la padella per fare le frittelle.- Aspetta che mi metto la camicia.Bum, bum.- Aspetta che mi metto i mutandoni.Bum, bum.- Aspetta che mi metto i pantaloni.Bum, bum.- Aspetta che mi metto la gabbana."
This is a masterful collection of Italian Folktales, where the reader is lured into a world of flux, of metamorphoses, where kings and peasants, tricksters and saints, and a whole zoology* of extraordinary animals, plants and fish wend their way through the landscape and history of the Italian nation.Italian Folktales (Fiabe Italiane) is a collection of 200 folktales, collated from various regions around Italy, and from the works of a whole army of collectors, folklorists, ethnologists etc., making use of an extensive collection of work compiled over the centuries.
Within these pages we follow a nations collective psyche, yield to the joyous imagination and complexity of the human experience.http://parrishlantern.blogspot.com/20...
Calvino es un autor que me gusta. Su ensayo de por qué leer a los clásicos brindó siempre geniales discusiones en mis clases. Corazón Jaguar siempre ocupará un lugar especial en mi corazón de alcachofa. Peeeero descubrir esta joya fue extraordinario.Leerlo con un vaso de leche y galletitas, disfrutar cada una de las historias, volverse niño no preguntar, no decir eso no me lo creo, no cuestionar. Disfrutar solamente todas estas historias de hadas, príncipes, brujas, dragones y magia tanta. Volverse niño y no preguntar. Creer, creerlo todo. Volverse niño.
Too many of these stories followed the same pattern: poor character is having a bad time > something semi-magical happens > character gains wealth or nobility.For a writer with communist sympathies and an anarchist father, Calvino sure seems to (re-)tell a lot of stories that glorify kings, marriage, and wealth.
It's not the cosmicomics :(
When you read a book every day for two months, you develop a relationship with the book.
I felt like I grew to know Italy through both space and time through the hundreds of stories in this book, stories from every part of Italy, over seven hundred pages of stories.
Many had familiar elements; I read stories that reminded me of Hansel and Gretel, Cinderella, and Sleeping Beauty, among others.
Most had at least some of the classic characteristics of fairy tales, including royalty, magic, the number three, talking animals, and happily ever after endings.
I didn’t want this book to come to an end.
When you have 800 pages of folk tales and fairy tales, even when you try reading a few a night, it eventually gets old, like eating mashed potatoes every night. A great majority of these stories are silly, nonsensical things, with a lot of repeating plot structures. Only a few reached an absurd level, or better yet, an absurd-symbolic level. I did get some inspiration from a few of the tales, and that's why I signed up.
My Grandmother, from Italy, would tell my brother and I Giufa stories every night.
When my eldest son was in 1st Grade, he asked me one night after a Giufa story, "Is Giufa real, Dad." Wanting my son to believe these stories to get the full impact, I replied, "Of course."Then my son said, "Then tomorrow when we go to the library we can get Giufa books!""Yes," I squirmed, hoping he would forget.When I picked him up from school, he excitedly said, "Let's go get Giufa books!"After looking for a long time for these books, I told my son, "He is so popular, they are all checked out.""Let's ask the librarian." My lie was up.
She looked at my son and said, I don't think we have a book on Giufa, but we do have a book on ITALIAN FOLKTALES.
He was a real literary character.Calvino was a genius.
These are some seriously crazy fairy tales.
I finally finished this book.I've been reading it, with varying degrees of intensity, since early 2004.It is a 700+ page book of 200 folktales with notes and intros.I tried to read one fairy tale every day.
These stories were so crazy, and yet most echoed motifs and structures of the fairy tales of other cultures.
I am so completely fascinated with the psychological need in society that has perpetuated these stories through the ages and cross cultures.
I keep wondering if there is a meta-story, a pure fairy tale that is the root of all fairy tale, somewhere out there .
A legtöbb mesét ismertem más, általában teljesebb, tetszősebb változatban, amit meg nem, az leginkább kalandregény-kezdemény. És persze joban örültem volna feldolgozatlan meséknek, szerencsére a jegyzetekből kiderül, hol mancsolt beléjük Calvino, de akkor is.A képek nagyon szépek, de hogy jönnek népmesékhez? :D
Containing short (2-3 page) old folktales, this is a charming collection. Not the type of thing you pick up and read from front to back (nearly 800 pages, 200 stories) more something you would pick up to read one or two before bed or to a child. Not a Calvino novel in the vein of the others of his I've read, but a very worthwhile addition to the bookcase.
Ah an oldie but a goodie ... pulled this out to read some of the tales to my 3 year old. While she fell asleep during the 1st one, I kept reading. This is a book I've read before (parts), but enjoy again and again.
ترجمه عالی و نثر دقیق و شیوای ایتالو کالوینو از نقاط قوت این اثر هستند . به طوری که شما با خواندن این افسانه ها به این شک می افتید که آیا این نوشته ها و داستان ها طنز های ساخته ذهن کالوینو هستند یا نه واقعن افسانه های محلی ایتالیایی ؟
Generally speaking, I don't post books on Goodreads that I have read more than 20 years ago. I read this extraordinary and deep collection in 1990, but parts of it still haunt me.
Highly uneven collection that I've been reading off and on the last year. It's a general favorite but it did now "wow" me as some of the Russian authors do.
An amusing collection of fairy tales and folk stories that hasn't a whiff of postmodern style. Suck it, lit majors.
.
This collection of over 400 stories from across Italy is by turns funny, delightful, dark, and bizarre. Each is written concisely enough to be read in several minutes but this does not hinder each tale's ability to draw the reader into a world of charms, curses and magical beings. I bought another copy of this for my sister (who is dyslexic) as it's the perfect book for those who love a good story but find reading longer books difficult.
