https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/477338.Blue_is_for_Nightmares
I mean, fuck.
I could turn into a werewolf and my best friend would never betray me, just be like, "Dude, find me a hot werewolf guy." It rages me that these characters are constantly forced to rely on themselves and blah fucking blah.Now where was I...) I  ABSOLUTELY REFUSE  to sit through the rest of the series.I'm sure shitty best friend will spend the rest of the series trying to make it up to the witchy main character for being a waste of literary space.
Plus, premonition dreams.So that was funTwo things though.1) Why is it that, often (but not always), in young adult fiction, especially aimed at teenage girls, the "best " fiend(s) are never really good friends.
Especially between girls.And in this book, every single friend that the protagonist had, ended up being annoying, inconsiderate, cold, jealous, mean, or just plain incompatible.
My world for a string friendship between two teenage girls where they don't argue about silly things and especially about boys.2) Boys and love interest.
To make things even worse, Drea is getting calls from a mysterious guy, and she refuses to tell Stacy who he is.A few days later, Drea gets a package and Stacy becomes paranoid.
Stacy doesn't want to tell Drea what her visions indicate, but after these odd phone calls, and the mysterious package, Stacy decides it's about time to tell her the truth.
However, despite this, Drea continues to talk to the mysterious guy on the phone, and she admits to Stacy and Amber that she has no idea who he is.
I read these books ages ago and only just remembered about them, dying to re-read them all now - will review as soon as I can get my hands on a copy!
Nije loše.Misteriozno i brzo se čita,likovi su odlični,dijalozi puni humora i prepucavanja,to mi je valjda bilo i najbolje u knjizi. Veoma lepo osmišljeno,ali je sve nekako zbrzano i nedovršeno, skače previše s radnje na radnju. Nadam se da je u nastavcima bila bolja. I naravno opet prepametni šesnaestogodišnjaci
Stacy starts having nightmares about her friend Drea being kidnapped.
She knows that they mean something because this has happened to her before.
In the past she ignored them and lost someone she loved because of it.
This time Stacy plans on preventing the murder.
Also everyone is catty and bitchy, it seems as though no one is nice to each other, even best friends.
I am not saying people have to be nice to each other all the time, but best friends usually have boundaries they wont cross with each other and that doesn't seem to exist here.
It was such an amazing novel that I really did not want to put it down because I wanted to keep on reading to the end to find out who the stalker was.Stacey is a wicca who has been having a bed-wetting problem ever since she began to have nightmares about someone trying to kill her best friend and dorm roommate, Drea.
She, Drea, and all her friends must now try to figure out who the stalker is before someone comes and take Drea away before it is too late.I really found all the characters to be quite different and very well written.
This one was just okay.
Stacey was interesting with all her spells and rituals.
But(view spoiler)[ I found the bed-wetting part of the story unnecessary......and she doesn't seem all that worried about!
I would be scared to sleep, setting alarms to get up all night long to go to the bathroom and go before bed....but she doesn't seem to do any of that (hide spoiler)]I also didn't much like most of the cast of characters.
None of them were particularly great or even interesting.
Meh. this one was just okay.
I was seriously tempted for one star.A young adult witchcraft book that tries too hard to be adult, in my opinion.Stacey is a "woe is me" character, whose friends suck.
With friends like these, her enemies in the book don't seem so bad anymore!
These, ladies and gentlemen, were it's only good points.Now. The whole story revolved around a stalker, and the fact that Stacey was having prophetic nightmares.
So we try to grasp the fact that Stacey is trying to hide her bed wetting for nearly the entire book.To sum it up, this book was blah.
I feel like I know more about calming oils and protection spells than I do the characters.Stacy starts having nightmares about something terrible happening to her friend Drea.
This time Stacy plans on preventing Drea's death.And here I was rooting for Drea to die.
She's a horrible, arrogant friend who believes 'whats mine is mine' including people.
Honestly, I don't know why Stacy tried so hard to be her friend.
I couldn't go two pages without Stacy peeing all over herself.
Once upon a time I enjoyed books regardless of what they lacked.
In these nightmares, it is undeniable that Drea, her friend, is in trouble, and she soon worries that these dreams may come true when strange gifts and phone calls start arriving.Stacey uses the magic that her grandmother taught her with hopes to reveal who is behind all of this.
I was worried that it might be too short and that the ending could be rushed, but it was paced well and I enjoyed it quite a bit.When I started this book I was expecting more of a paranormal or supernatural mystery, but instead what I got was more of a contemporary story with religious or realistic magic.

Καλο. Ηταν σίγουρα διαφορετικο απο τα σύγχρονα φάντασυ που διαβάζω συνήθως. Σκοτεινή ατμόσφαιρα, παρακολουθήσεις απο σχιζοφρενή, πολυ μυστήριο, κ μια πρωταγωνιστρια που δεν έχει τίποτα απολύτως ιδιαίτερο πέρα απο προειδοποιητικούς εφιάλτες και νυχτερινές ενουρήσεις (ναι καλά διαβασατε), μα δεν τη νοιάζει καθόλου. Προτιμά να μένει στο περιθώριο πίσω απο την αγαπημένη φίλη της Ντρέα, που προσπαθεί να προστατέψει με κάθε κόστος. Αρκετά ενδιαφέρον. Μπορεί να αποτελείται απο μια σειρά βιβλίων αλλα το κάθε ένα είναι αυτοτελές, παλι καλα!
I got a little confused, but then it got slightly better.It's a typical high school nonsense, falling in love with your best friend's on-and-off-and-on again boyfriend, bitching about who's better at picking up boys, etc.
And our MC here is the typical Miss I Don't Pick Up Boys But I Hang Out With Cool Girls kind of person.
But since Drea's the too cool for school kind of person, so they had several conflicts trying to figure out the nightmares.
Also, if I were Stacey, I'd just walk away from this whole mess because hey I'm just trying to help why you gotta be so rude, you know?
She knows that these dreams are really premonitions and decides to do whatever she needs to do in order to stop her friend from dying.Over the course of the novel, several predictions she make end up coming true: she does a cartomancy reading (like tarot, with regular cards) and everything unfolds the way the reading predicts.
In addition to the witchcraft and the mystery that's the central plotline of the novel, there's also a love triangle, if you can call it that--Stacey has some crush on her best friend/roomie's boyfriend/ex-boyfriend, Chad, and he likes her too.
The first book in the BIFN series! When Freshman Stacey Brown starts having nightmares about her roommate and bestfriend Drea, she goes on a journey that will change her perspective on her nightmares. It starts off with phone calls between drea and this "unknown guy" she won't mention, later there's notes and mysterious packages, and later death threats. Stacey needs to sleep so she can dream, and help save drea but will she be able to do it in time? Using her intuition and her Wicca, Stacey might be able to do it.Rating:10
Bu kadar gereksiz kız muhabbeti/kavgası dinlemek isteseydim, televizyonu açar, "tarz" programlarından birini izlerdim, bu kitabı okumazdım. Ayrıca "tehdit mektupları" gibi, ortaokul hikayeleri için bile oldukça ucuz ve klişe bir tema olacağını bilsem hiç okumazdım. Sürprizsiz, basit sonundan hiç bahsetmeyeyim en iyisi. Sadece biraz büyü istemiştim ama o da o kadar azdı ki, kitabın ortalarından itibaren baş karakterin cadı olduğunu bile unuttum.ÖZET: Tavsiye edilmez.
This book was kind of typical, but I still really liked the paranormal fantasy element and the characters were well-written and easy to relate to.
Rating: 3.5 out of 5 starsI thought this was a nice story that incorporated mystery and fantasy alike and found that I enjoyed this well enough.
That said, there were lots of things that I just really didn't like about this.
Primarily, I thought this book was extremely slow paced--I mean really slow.
Another thing I didn't like about the book was the lack of character development in it.
Sure, I think some of the characters were well-written, but others were very shallow and I really didn't see any growth.
Plus, I enjoyed the fact that I couldn't guess the mystery and was kind of surprised by it.
Quando inizia a fare degli incubi nei quali Drea è in pericolo di morte, Stacey sa che le sue percezioni non sono da prendere alla leggera e temendo per la vita dell'amica decide di coinvolgerla nelle sue scoperte per metterla all'erta del pericolo.
Devo dire che le premesse iniziali di questo libro sono ottime, molto intriganti e originali i capitoli introduttivi della storia, che, accompagnati dall'ambientazione del collegio, rendono ancora più interessante il contesto in cui si svolge.
Il mistero si dipana piano per tutta la prima metà del libro e devo dire che ero molto incuriosita di scoprire quello che sarebbe successo, tanto da indurmi a leggere tutto nell'arco di una sola giornata.
Still, my point is that I appreciated the different depiction of magic in this book, and that it was a means for personal action instead of a copout/quick fix.About page 150, the narrative seemed suddenly better; it was wittier, the dialogue more quick and smart, the contemplative sections more natural and peaceful, the teenage characters more true and developed.
It must be said, though, that the character of Amber, one of Stacey's school friends, was stealing the show in the first half: she's simultaneously the most generic and yet dynamic character in the book.
Stacey's interest as a character in this first half is generated more by her unconventional methodology than in any actual characterization.
Of course, the main character, Stacey is not as stupid as her friends, but it simply beggars belief that she would hang out with two friends who do things as foolhardy as flashing a potentially stalking stranger her tits through a broken window in her friends' room (Amber), or talking about her sex life with a stranger who phoned her by mistake and won't give her his name (Drea).
She kept having the characters say and think things like, "It's like some bad horror movie or something," and "This isn't a slasher movie, it's a prep school," and "Some senior boys are treating this like a cheesy horror movie..." Well, I'd say she succeeded, only not in a good way.
I know as the reader I'm supposed to care about what happens to the characters in the book, but they didn't feel like real people at all.
I had a hard time feeling any sense of dread for the events that were obviously going to happen.It's probably not fair to this book that I'm also reading Daphne du Maurier's Rebecca because the comparison between the two is like night and day.
A quick and easy read for middle schoolers for sure.The story takes place at a boarding school, which we are given absolutely no information on.
We are also given no information on any of the characters.
I found that I didn't care if she was stalked or saved since I knew nothing about her, except that she was very catty (like all the characters) so was therefore unable to empathize with any of them.
Eventhough this book is very much for middle schoolers or young high schoolers, some of the content was entirely too adult.
I wouldn't want my 13 year old reading this book (if I had one).
Stacey's friend and roommate, Drea, is being stalked by a killer.
It's up to Stacey to help Drea survive by using the witchcraft and simple spells her grandmother taught her, from creating a protection jar to pyschic dreams.The characters in this book were completely wooden and cliche.
One moment Stacey is her best friend and the next she's being bitchy for no reason and then disolving into tears because OMG someone wants to kill her but oh wait, no don't do something sensible like call the police.
Fans of teen slasher books like RL Stein's may enjoy this book, anyone looking for more substance than that will be disappointed.
I'm not going to rate this book because I read this series when I was 13 and inexperienced of a reader as I was... I remember liking them. I know if I went back and reread them now I don't think I could even finish the first one. So for 13 year old me these books were ok. Now... not so much.
Really bad, and not just because the main character compulsively wets the bed.
Why did I like these books back in my younger years? Why are teenagers so annoying? Why even save Drea when she is annoying as hell and a shitty friend? Idk I just need to hit my book quota.
At one point the MC points out that the officer she was talking to looked like a “tart” meaning she was really feminine and how she didn’t really think she could be doing her job well or be smart enough for it because of that.
There’s also some body shaming in here I don’t really love and they throw around things that could possibly be offensive for people who have mental illnesses.
I do think some of this is because this was written in 2003 so this wasn’t such a sensitive topic,but if these kind of things turn you off from books just skip this.
(If people are even still interested in reading this.)
I think that this is my new favorite book.
the plot is so thick and confusing and I love how the characters sometimes have these oh!
moments and the three best friends relationship is more real than other best friends in books.
it was so intense, I stayed up most of last night reading it and it was so terrifying!
I loved it because it doesn't sprinkle sugar on anything, it's just hard and real and how it is.
the way the author wove it together was amazing and I will definitely read the next book.
