https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9516.Persepolis
There was a revolution, some religious nutters took over, and then everyone started dressing like they were back in the stone ages.People in my country choose to wear burkas, so I just assumed most of the people in Iran thought it was a good thing.Now, maybe my original views sound sort of stupid, but in my defense, I honestly don't understand why anyone does anything when it comes to religion.
And don't get me started on that My Husband is the Head of the House shit...My point is, if people willing do those things because of religious beliefs, why not clothing stuff?
Persepolis is Marjane Satrapi’s memoir of growing up in Iran during the Islamic Revolution. It was an eye-opening, heartbreaking and thought provoking book— I had many thoughts and feelings while reading, so much so that I had to put it down multiple times to take a breather.I was in a haze for a very long time after finishing it— and I kept questioning everything in my surroundings.Here are some instances that made me put down the book and think for a while (they contain *spoilers*):   (Those
"He never got to see his son" resonated with me deeply.The relationships between the families, especially between Marji and her mother, also hit home for me.There was one instance in particular that stayed with me— when her mother was willing to sew posters into her own coat just to bring them back to her daughter without marks.
They all held a significant part in her journey, and it just made me tear up towards the end, especially when Marji left for Vienna.
If you're interested in buying Persepolis, just click on the image below to go through my link.
The little red book cover to “Persepolis”, has been sketched in my mind for years...as clearly as a mental visual of the ‘Jack-in-the-box’ logo.
( I don’t eat there - but it’s pretty hard to not have an immediate visual memory of what their basic logo looks like).
I don’t think I need to share specifics about Marjane Satrapi’s autobiography in its artistic form....during the Islamic revolution when the Shah fled Iran in 1979 to escape.
“the good days” my local Iranian friends tell me.
He was an Iranian story writer and Scholar.
After repeated visits to the bookshop to flip the pages of this autobiography, I wasn't sure if I wanted to part with my money for the typical self-indulgent autobiography.So Persepolis immediately caught my interest and I wasn't disappointed.The books tell an honest and poignant story of a well-to-do family during the political turmoil in Iran from the perspective of the little and, in book II, adult Marjane Satrapi.
They are sometimes tragic moments but told without self-pity.
I laugh and I cry reading this book.One of the most powerful parts for me is when the parents, who love her so much, let her go to study in Austria.
How true...I won't say more about these books.
A story about a very sweet lovable rebellious young girl from Iran..No, sorry..it's a story of a free family under tyrant rule..A story of once great country,Kingdom that retreat 1000 years back.Marjane has dreams..Dreams of Good life, Good deed, equality, prospect, freedom.Then came the revolution which call for all that. To down the coup tyrant government.But alas, the revolution got its own coup, named after a way-better-than-this-religion..even more tyrant.. Why - for me, as Egyptian- all th
In very simple comics, even childish, comes a very excellent heavy family life story, Country history, a very well done melodrama.About coming of age that really touching.I loved Marjane so much and her amazing parents.It take place from 1979 to 1985, where the young girl witnessed all the depressive rules of the new “Islamic Government”The good thing is the richness of her family both in money and culture...even their ancestors.That makes a very helpful great insight into the history of Iran, and the major political turns.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Of all the banned books I’ve read over the years, THIS one might be the one that I really can’t figure out a reason for banning. There have been some selections that my children aren’t quite old enough to read or fully understand, but they are still tiny humans. In a couple of years I’ll gladly let them peruse my bookshelves and read whatever all of the nutters tell them not to. It was thinking of those nutters that left me shaking my
Of all the banned books I’ve read over the years, THIS one might be the one that I really can’t figure out a reason for banning.
*shrug*I, for one, am absolutely delighted that Banned Books Week led me to discover Persepolis.
Marjane Satrapi was able to detail the history of the Revolution and its lasting effects on not only her family but Iran as a whole with humor .
My friend Matthew was the first to express his love for Persepolis when he saw it on my “Currently Reading” list and he unleashed his rebellious side and read a banned book this week too.
Satrapi tells the story of the Islamic Revolution with the innocent voice of a young girl and yet, it is immediately evident how easily her mind was influenced by the world around her - her school, her parents, the news, the things people told her.
My impression is that the Western world often wants us to think that it's us against them, the oh-so-civilized West against the Middle East, and to forget that the people who are not fundamentalists are, in fact, the vast majority.
In her own way, just like her parents, she fights back too.
The narrative of the first volume ends when Marjane leaves for Austria when she is 15 to continue her studies at a more liberal and open European environment.‘Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood’, is a powerful and heartbreaking graphical rendering of the dark times of a society which was shrouded in the horrors of war and oppression from the viewpoints of a young girl who is confused and trying to understand what is happening around her.
A note to the reader: Since ‘Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood’ is told from the perspective of the young Marjane, the author intent seems to focus around expressing her confusions, her doubts and her attempts in trying to understand the world into which she was born.
I highly recommend this group, and while I am more of a lurker than a discusser, it’s a lot of fun and great to be surrounded by intelligent, like-minded people.
On top of that I live in Los Angeles, a heavily Persian community and many of my real life friends are from Iran, so I was interested in learning more about the history of this country.This book is an autobiographical memoir by Marjane Satrapi, mostly of her childhood living in Iran in turbulent times.
This book shows how Marjane adjusts to a new restrictive lifestyle as well as a history of the country told by her.
I don't know exactly why, but I never got a grip on what Satrapi's personal views on the politics within her country are.
Maybe it has something to do with the fact that this memoir ends when the author is 14 (although writing it as an adult, she should be able to present her views clearly).
Or maybe it is because Satrapi herself never personally experiences any hardship in this book.
However my joy turned to large bananas which have been left too long in the fruit bowl of life and are now blackened and soggy, as I came to realise that the perky sassy girl of Part One grew up to be the miserable pain in the ass shoegazing student of Part Two. So the movie demonstrated the curious fact that you can have the most exotic of backgrounds (Iran!
There are two very odd things about this two-book-one-movie : the word AYATOLLAH is never mentioned, not once.
But if I recall correctly, Iran experienced an ISLAMic revolution led by the AYATOLLAH Khomeini.
Now, having read the book, I shall have to go see the movie.I am the same age as Marjane Satrapi.
Having lived in Italy from 1977-79, I feel a little closer to these events than I would have, had I been "buried" in American concerns at the time.
While I never will know how Satrapi felt about the events in her own country (nor would I want to know), I can at least more closely approximate the emotions she must have felt at the time than if I had been born under other circumstances, in a different place, in a different time.Persopolis has faint echoes of Maus.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestAmericans, as a whole, don't really know anything about the Middle East. According to this article, a Roper study conducted during the Iraq War (2006) found that 75% of students could not find Iran on a map (the link they provided was a dead link). I knew a bit about the Islamic Revolution, because I read INSIDE THE KINGDOM: MY LIFE IN SAUDI ARABIA by Carmen Bin Ladin, who was half-Persian and grew up in Iran at this time, but still, the ex
The Islamic Revolution imposed new restrictions - mandatory hijabs, religion being taught in schools, and the Iranian secret police, or SAVAK, investigating people on the streets or in their homes for illegal activities, for which they might be jailed, publicly whipped, or even executed.I think what makes this such a touching - and important - book are the flashes of normality in between the chaos of war and revolution.
That's okay.Persepolis is the first book in a graphic novel series about the childhood of Marjane Satrapi, the author of this book.
In this book, Satrapi reminisces her life in Tehran during the Islamic Revolution and the Iran–Iraq War - a time of oppression and dejection.
Of course, with the Islamic Revolution came the arrival of the high and mighty chador.As I continued reading, you could strongly feel the push and pull between a rebellious culture and it's new dictatorial government.
Persepolis isn't perfect, but I'm willing to read the others in the series.
I've wondered about reading Persepolis for a number of years now (I saw the film trailer back in high school).
Finally I ordered a copy and it's a shocking account of extremism and the toll it takes on families and friendships, but more than that it's also a brilliant coming-of-age tale about maturity, expression and individuality.
It's also an interesting shift in character from the eyes of a daring and innocent child to that of a teenager marred by death, politics and religion gone corrupt.
In Persepolis, Marjane Satrapi tells the story of her girlhood and adolescence in revolutionary Iran in a way that is immediately accessible and recognizable, even if you grew up in a totally different decade and on a different continent.
There’s a warmth and frankness to her way of turning a phrase or expressing an idea that is totally unique.
It’s a rich, captivating novel and I recommend it to anyone who loves a good coming-of-age story.–Maddie Rodriguez from The Best Books We Read In September 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/10/03/riot-r...
One can forgive but one should never forget. Graphic novel that details the author's experiences during the Iranian Revolution. Quite an emotional read!
I am as middle class (we call it affectionately, the "poor rich" where I live.) I am intellectual.
I am like Richard Rodriquez and bellhooks because education took me away from my roots, but gave me who I am today.So, how could Iranian middle class intellectuals and professionals in the late 1970s have been so different than me and my family?
Yes, it is a girl's growing up story.
Yes, it isn't really about the parents.
No, the Iranian intellectuals and professionals were not very different from their American counterparts.
This is a good book.
Satrapi writes with a powerful voice.
One can easily imagine her childhood and early life.
Many times I do not enjoy graphic novels because I think they are weak and poorly-written, relying on pictures to tell a story and not utilizing good dialogue and text.
That is not the case here.
Satrapi's unique illustrations make the Iran of her youth come to life.
Many difficult and painful issues are dealt with in this book: torture, death, martyrdom, etc.
Instead of cheapening these concepts, the graphic novel Satrapi wrote makes them hit you harder.
I thought this book was very sad, I felt sorry how Marjane had to grow up. I'm going to link this to a friends review that can tell it better :)Anne's Review
A unique and enlightening coming-of-age graphic memoir set in Iran, and weighted with high-contrast illustrations that transport us to another time and place. ⭐⭐⭐⭐SUMMARYMarjane Satrapi is the great-granddaughter of one of Iran’s last emperor‘s, and her parents are committed Marxist’s. PERSEPOLIS is her childhood memoir of growing up in Iran during the Islamic Revolution. Black-and-white comic strip images tells the story of her life in Tehran from ages six to fourteen and allow us to learn as s
The book paints a portrait of daily life in Iran and the contradictions between home life and public life.“The revolution is like a bicycle, when the wheels don’t turn it fails.”REVIEWPERSEPOLIS is a starkly drawn black-and-white graphic memoir.
While the illustrations were dark and heavy it seemed particularly fitting for the period of overthrow, revolution and war.Middle school age students desiring exposure to other cultures and anyone who likes to explore unique literature formats should take a look at PERSEPOLIS.
In 2005, she published Persepolis 2, a continuation of her memoir covering the story of her life in Vienna and her eventual return to Iran.
Extremely clever and genuine book about a young middle eastern woman going through an oppressive misogynistic extremist regime, something I relate to a lot.
It gives me strength and hope and makes me love and relate to people I, as a person who grew up in sunni saudi arabia, was always told were enemies or at least people who don't wish us well, that's the picture that's been painted.
This irani woman inspired me a lot.
I know exactly what type of child Marjane was through her telling of stories, and I know exactly what kind of people her parents were, and I loved reading the stories she tells about every day life, from family dramas, to teasing friends on the playground, to that eventual loss of innocence when she discovers what her world has become.
And where the former novel was bleak and disturbing and dramatic and portrayed women as weaklings, I loved reading about all the different ways that Marjane and her family and friends protested the system in which they live and all they ways they showed strength.
I didn't appreciate this book as much, 12 years back when I read it for the first time, than I do it now. History has an uncanny way of manifesting itself, in our day to day lives. It's not even funny.
مرجان ساتراپی خاطراتش از ایران قبل و بعد از انقلاب ۵۷ رو در این کتاب روایت کرده و به تصویر کشیده.
در اون دوره مرجان نوجوان بوده و روایتها مال حدود ۱۳ تا ۱۶ سالگی اونه.
به همین خاطر مسائلی که بیشتر بهش پرداخته شده در حد مسائلی هست که بچهای در اون سن براش مهمه و درک میکنه.
مثل تغییر حجاب و گشتهای حجاب، محدودیت توی خوردن شراب، جنگ و ترس از بمباران و بعد هجوم جنوبیها به شهرهای شمالی و...
یه جاهایی درباره نوع عقایدی که هم درباره گروههای چپ و راست میشنیده و در حد فهم خودش چیزی نوشته، ولی خیلی کمه.
مرجان ساتراپی خاطراتش از ایران قبل و بعد از انقلاب ۵۷ رو در این کتاب روایت کرده و به تصویر کشیده.
و با توجه به اینکه سرچ‌های قدیمی درباره تخت جمشید با واژه انگلیسی پرسپولیس هم خیلی به عکس‌های این کتاب ختم می‌شد و برام سوال شده بود که چیه، دیگه دانلود کردم و خوندمش.
در اصل برام جالب شد ببینم که خارجیا دارن از ما چی می‌بینن!و خب لازم نیست بگم که آبرومون رفته با این کتاب دیگه.
درسته حقیقت رو گفته، ولی با توجه به سیاه و سفید بودن کتاب به نظرم یه تصویر سیاه‌تر از حد معمول فعلی جامعه رو توی ذهن خارجیا ایجاد می‌کنه.
A graphic novel describing how it was like growing up during the Islamic Revolution in Iran, it was nice and I might give it another try soon.
I got this book in Arabic.
أكثر ما شدني في الكتاب، عدا عن كونه مصور، هو استطاعة الكاتبة أن تنقل لنا أفكار طفلة بتفاعلها مع مجتمعها و سياسة بلدها و إيمانها بربها بطريقة جميلة.
أحسست و أنا أقرأ بأني كنت بالفعل أقرأ طفلة ليس فقط من خلال كلماتها بل أيضا من خلال الرسوم البسيطة جدا و المعبرة بشكل أكبر.
هذا شكل آخر من الكتابات الذي يتفاعل فيه النص مع الرسم فلا تستطيع أن تتنازل عن أحدهما لصالح الآخر.
قرأت تعليقا هنا تقول فيه الناقدة بأنها أحبت الكتاب لدرجة أنها لن تستطيع إعارته لآخرين، أما أنا فأحببته لدرجة أني أريد أن أعيره للجميع.
This graphic novel punched me in the gut a little bit.But I loved young Marjane. She is fabulous.This graphic novels tells the story of Iran and the Islamic Republic. It doesn’t dwell completely in fact and politics - it centres around a young family and shows the ramifications for a normal family living there.I cannot get wait to start on part 2.
We meet her delightfully outspoken grandmother, her neither-fish-nor-fowl mother, her drippily emotional father, and a host of family members of varying degrees of inimicality to the various horrible regimes Iran has suffered in the past 100 years.Oh, oh, oh how I hate to write these words, knowing how many people will flee screaming into the distance as I do: This is a coming-of-age story.Wait!
I suggest viewing the film instead of the graphic novel.My Review: I don't much like graphic novels, seeing them as pretentious cousins to the comic book.
ii)Iran's history during the growing years of Marji is summarized for you in a few pages along with the political and socio-cultural background of the times.iii)This book features, by far, the coolest pair of parents that I've ever read about in a novel or book (or that I can think of at the moment).iv)It offers you a very original and true-to-life account of revolution, war and its inevitable consequences.v)Themes such as disillusionment with religion and the sheer absurdity of religious dogma are explored in the book in the most offhand manner.v)A steady undercurrent of humour runs through the length of the book, lessening the gravity of the backdrop and sometimes even depressing situations.Sample these :- 
