https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1147790.Marshmallow
A sweet story that tugged at my heartstrings! Newberry has beautifully transcribed both Oliver's and Marshmallow's feelings of trepidation, and then later acceptance, into a short yet heartwarming story of love and affection.
Sweet story about a bunny and a cat. Charcoal drawings were popular in this time of the WWII 40s which must have had to do with resources. They are skillful and beautiful drawings. A cat owner has a happy cat Oliver until she brings home a baby white bunny. She realizes she has to keep them separated. By the end of the book they are bosom buddies.The kids enjoyed this. They weren't too warm or too cold with it. They finished this and went on to the next story for the night.
A cat and a bunny become friends. AND THEN THEY CUDDLE.
My mother would take me to the local library once a week and ask me to choose a book.
Week after week I took home Marshmallow.
Finally my mother said I needed to choose something else.
But the next week she let me take it home again!
Marshmallow is the story of a baby bunny introduced into a home that already has a full grown cat.
(If you've ever loved a cat, I recommend all her books that feature cats!) Its a longer story book and some of the wording is a bit old fashioned, but that adds immensely to its charm.
There is a lot to like about this children's book and it is definitely worthy of the Caldecott Honor it so prominently boasts on its cover.In a household lives a cat named Oliver.
Marshmallow and Oliver demonstrate that anyone can be friends with one another, teaching kids a valuable lesson that appearances do not matter in friendship.
One of my rabbits – Bun Bun – and cats – Midnight – were able to coexist peacefully and actually got along just like Marshmallow and Oliver.
Parents, be forewarned that there is a side effect to reading this book.
Your child will want a bunny.
So if you're prepared for the mournful pleadings, the protruding lower lip and the puppy-dog eyes, by all means, read this book.
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
And they lived happily ever after with lots of snuggling the end.
This is one of those rather longer and wordier picture books which seemed more common years ago.
Many of those have worn thin and are no longer interesting to modern children.
This book though is still darling.
These illustrations are clearly done by someone who just loved a little rabbit like Marshmallow.
They are charming and capture just what it's like to have a house rabbit.
Made me sentimental for my own pet rabbits.
I feel that this book really holds up well and can be enjoyed by modern children so long as they have the attention span for it.
The illustrations are just lovely! And the story is adorable. This is the book that has brought us the famous lines, A bunny's a delightful habit//No home's complete without a rabbit.and Galoshes, boxes, books, and string--//A bunny nibbles everything.
I read this book at the pediatrician's office. Dante then read it after I recommended it. There's more text in it than I guessed by looking at the cover. The story is delightful, as are the illustrations.
My older daughter picked this up at her library at school for her little sister, and it is such a cute book.
I abhor cats, and can barely stand the idea of having a rabbit in the house.
And this book had the cutest cat named Oliver.
Oliver's owner, Miss Tilly, brings home a baby rabbit.
He was too frightened to even run away, but crouched in a corner, opening and closing his eyes as if it actually hurt them to look at a rabbit."Later, Oliver adjusts, and decides pouncing on Marshmallow seems like a great idea.
After reading the book, I really wanted to get our house a baby bunny.
I did not grow up with this book, so knew nothing about it until a few days ago.
This past weekend I was walking by Every Picture Tells a Story on Montana Avenue and the book cover caught my eye because the illustration was so beautiful.
I asked about the book in the store and the one in the window was the last copy.
Without even reading the book, I bought it b/c the rest of the illustrations were also so beautiful.
When I got home, I read it and what a great story.
I chose this story as my early childhood book.This is the tale of Marshmallow the bunny and Oliver the cat whose home he takes over.
This is based on a true story – the author/illustrator owned Marshmallow and Oliver and this is her story about them.It’s a very cute story that children will love.
The illustrations are quick life sketches of the animals with very little accent color.
It’s mostly in black and white with a few spots of red or pink here and there.
The little bunny looks like he could hop right off the page and the author captured every detail of her cat too!
A sweet story about interspecies friendship (based on a real-life pair) as Miss Tilly, owner of Oliver the cat and new Marshmallow the bunny, composes poems on her typewriter:Birdies twitter, chirp, and tweet; Moo-cows moo, and lambkins bleat; Some creatures bellow, others bray; Some hoot, or honk, or yap, or neigh; Most creatures make annoying noises, Even little girls and boyses.Newberry's charcoal drawings are sublime.
Oh, I loved this! Mostly because I've had cats and bunnies together and seen just how they interact. She captures perfectly the feel of both creatures in how she draws and writes about them. I could see that she based this off of real life before I even read that she had. Such a cute story! This is one to share with my girls. :)
Adorable story about the unlikely friendship between a cat and a rabbit. Newberry's drawings are fresh and beautiful.
I just want to buy a bunch of copies of this book and hand it to people on the street . . .
Cute story about a developing friendship between a cat and a bunny. Lovely illustrations but TONS of text. 5-6+
It was SO CUTE!
Marshmallow (1999) by Clare Turlay Summary:Oliver is a bachelor cat that has never spent time with other animals before, so when his owner, Miss Tilly, brings home a baby rabbit, Oliver doesn’t know what to do.
In the end, both Oliver and Marshmallow are happy that Miss Tilly brought Marshmallow home.About the book:The pictures weren't completely central to the story.
They helped to visualize what Oliver and Marshmallow looked like and set the mood of the book, but the pictures didn't exactly go along with what was happening with the book.
This adorable story features Oliver the cat and Marshmallow the bunny living under the same roof.
As he was enjoying his lovely day alone, Miss Tilly surprises Oliver by bringing a baby rabbit named Marshmallow.
Their friendship had begun.Clare Turlay Newberry had wonderfully created a classic picturebook that ages 7-10 can read and enjoy.
One can see how soft Marshmallow the white bunny look and it was almost realistic.
Newberry used simple and limited colors that helped added to the soft effect of the story.
But it would be a good story for kids ages around 5-10 that can read independently.
Oliver, the cat, is trying to adjust to Miss Tilly, his owner, bringing home a new pet.
Oliver finds it very hard to accept Marshmallow into his home, but after Marshmallow approaches him lovingly he can't help but love him.
Both Oliver and Marshmallow had to adapt to change, as Oliver had to learn to share his home, and Marshmallow was separated from his mother.
I think this book does a great job of communicating that change can be a good thing, and that acceptance creates love.
This book does a great job of simplifying the aspect of sharing and emphasizing the importance of acceptance.
Goodreads Book Review #2Marshmallow by Clare Turlay NewberryMrs. Tilly lives in a New York apartment with her beloved cat named Oliver.
The new friend is a baby bunny named Marshmallow.
Will Marshmallow and Oliver ever be friends?This cute true story shares a theme that focuses on growing friendship and adjusting to the change of something new.This would be a great book to read on the first day.
The teacher could make cut outs of cats and bunnies.
Then the teacher could discuss that though each student is different there are things that they share with one another making them not so much different from one another.
Marshmallow is the story of a bunny who is adopted by a new owner and befriends the cat who lives there.
In the beginning of the story, Marshmallow is just a scared bunny who wants to go home to his mother, but when Oliver decides he actually likes Marshmallow, the pair become friends and he no longer wishes for his mother.
They helped to visualize what Oliver and Marshmallow looked like and set the mood of the book, but the pictures didn't exactly go along with what was happening with the book.
The cat thinks he's a quiet rabbit.
The cat doesn't like the rabbit.
The rabbit might be Tyler Durden.------------------------------------My initial reaction when reading this book was that it was about a cat who thought he was a rabbit.
But then there appeared to be both a cat and a rabbit.
There was packing tape where someone had repaired the book, but the tape made it clear that no pages could have been removed once that tape was there.
I wondered how long this story had been faulty.Later in the book, I found the missing pages.
Whoever had carefully repaired the book repaired it without a whole two-page spread.
The reader can have a significant transaction with the story/piece of literature.The educational concepts Marshmallow could be used for in the class are: Animals-Cats; Animals-Rabbits; Award Winners-Caldecott Honor; Interpersonal Relationships-Friendship;The best way to describe the specific writing trait of Marshmallow is the voice of the book.
She is explaining exactly what is going on in the minds of the animals and it is like Oliver is talking directly to the reader.
I believe at the k-2 level it is better as read aloud book to the class unless you have Higher level readers.
This book was overlong, and I could have especially lived without the very twee poetry.The minimalist charcoal illustrations and understated characterization of both Marshmallow and Oliver were captivating, though. It was oddly thrilling to experience such a raw, tactile sensation of warmth and fuzziness from such simple drawings.
He is quite unpleasantly surprised when his owner brings home Marshmellow, a small white bunny, to join the household.
Over time though, he finds himself accepting the young Marshmellow, and by the end they are good friends.
Kids not able to sit for 4-5 sentences per page at least might get a little squirmy, but my girls, ages 4 and 7, found the story delightful and were totally entranced by the tale, and by the sweet and simple hand-drawn pictures.
Of note, this is a nonfiction story of animal friendships rather than fiction.
It is a great starting point to discuss fiction versus nonfiction, friendships and animal pets.
Marshmallow is a great book about the story of a cat and rabbit.
Newberry sets the book up with a mixture of text, and short poems.
The poems add a different style and make the reading easier for little children.
The poems are also supposed to be read aloud, with the text that are bigger and have a noise effect.
I think the way that the text is set up with the little headings shows what is really important to the author.
Newberry uses simple colors that add a soft tint to each image.
A short and sweet story with lovely illustrations!
