https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17841.Foucault_s_Pendulum
Owing to their occupation, they naturally end up reading an abundance of books about ridiculously grand conspiracy theories and occult societies - the Freemasons, the Templars, the Rosicrucians, the Illuminati (Bavarian and otherwise), and so on.
So they start to play a sort of free-association game: Let's connect all these things, using the same half-mad logic as the authors of these books, into one grand design.
After so long immersed in the dream-logic of conspiracy theories you can form seemingly-natural (and ominous) connections between any pair of things.
My enjoyment, or lack thereof, was tempered by the fact that I was apparently trying to read one story, but the author was trying to tell a different one.
Conceptually, this book is fascinating, but the execution was wanting; again, this may be because Eco was trying to tell a different story than I wanted to read.Many others describe this book as "thrilling" or a "roller coaster ride" but it's not.
In the end, rather than being a book about conspiracy theorists (which is what 90% of the text is about), it's almost more a book about self-image.
Once the order is in place, it can survive of its own accord.A Post-Modernist PrankThe Post-Modern aspects of the novel derive from the narrative in which its three protagonists (Casaubon, Belbo and Diotallevi) resolve to fabricate a work of esoterica, so that a specialist publisher for which they work can capitalize on a credulous market ("the Plan")."Foucault’s Pendulum" becomes a novel about the invention and construction of a work of non-fiction that is actually fictitious, perhaps one that even seeks to "arrive at the truth through the painstaking reconstruction of a false text.".The work needs to have words and facts and connections.Like the bond of a secret society, the power of words emerges from their connection:"Any fact becomes important when it’s connected to another.
Eco's Foucault's Pendulum is not quite brick big, but then it doesn't look like it's been on a diet either.In terms of sheer scope and passionate ambition this really is something, and it felt like a history lesson and a novel combined, so kudos there.This is a complex piece of writing that does require hard work from the reader, in basic terms what starts out as a literary joke for three Milan based book editors soon sees them enter a world of deadly peril.
Now bear with me on this: One of the theses I'd like to pose in my review, is that Eco's novel, Foucault's Pendulum, (which was first published in 1988), is to some extent reactionary to this whole pallaver, which caused a big stink toward the end of the twentieth century, especially since many readers had taken the Holy Blood and the Holy Grail pretty seriously:" The Prieuré de Sion, translated from French as Priory of Sion, is a name given to multiple groups, both real and fictitious.
Let's be clear: Eco is a titan.
This opus embarks the reader in a story with multiple bends, one is carried away by the incredible erudition of the author, by the obvious mastery of his art ....
Rare are the books that really raise the level of the reader.
Eco does it every time.
A Landmark!The Pendulum of Foucault is a book that exceeds me.
It is full of references, abstruse authors, outdated ideologies, strange rites.
Every time I will remember it, I will get out of it.
It is a reminder of the Dan Browns of this world, the publications of the Bogdanov brothers and the sociology thesis of Elisabeth Tessier.
The pendulum of the title refers to an actual pendulum designed by the French physicist Léon Foucault to demonstrate Earth's rotation, and has symbolic significance within the novel.
Some believe it refers to the philosopher Michel Foucault, noting Eco's friendship with the French philosopher, but the author "specifically rejects any intentional reference to Michel Foucault" —this is regarded as one of his subtle literary jokes.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هشتم ماه دسامبر سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: آونگ فوکو؛ نویسنده: امبرتو اکو؛ مترجم: رضا علیزاده؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، روزنه، 1389؛ در 2 جلد و 1172 ص، اندازه 21/5 در 14/5 ص.م.، واژه نامه، شابک: 9789643343187؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان ایتالیایی - سده 20 مداستان «آونگ فوکو» در زمان حاضر می‌گذرد.
A Fine Balance (3 stars)4.
The secret of the orchid is that it signifies and affects the testicles.
The best book I have ever read.
Umberto Eco is a genius, and if I could have a conversation with anyone, it would be him.The book, however, is very difficult to read.
All of this history is necessary to make the second half cause you to shit your pants.
It's basically about these guys trying to write a fictional book about the plan for the universe by tieing together all of the secret societies and cults.
While they weave together all of this to create fiction, it all begins to work as fact.
Then, really creepy shit starts going down.I recommend this book to EVERYONE.

Το διάβασα για πρώτη φορά στα 15 μου και αποφάσισα φέτος να το ξαναδιαβάσω και πλέον το λέω με κάθε σιγουριά: είναι ασύγκριτο, μοναδικό και για μένα ελάχιστα άλλα βιβλία και με μεγάλη δυσκολία μπορούν να το συναγωνιστούν, αλλά κανένα δεν μπορεί να το φτάσει.Βαθύ,Πανέξυπνο,Απολαυστικό,Πολύπλοκο και πολυεπίπεδο,Σαρκαστικό,Ευφυές, Μακροσκελές αλλά και τόσο πυκνογραμμένο,Ατμοσφαιρικό,με μια λέξη ΑΡΙΣΤΟΥΡΓΗΜΑ!Κανείς δεν χειρίζεται τον λόγο όπως ο Έκο.
Η πλοκή του βιβλίου είναι συναρπαστική, η μεγάλη του έκταση όχι μόνο δεν δημιουργεί πρόβλημα (καθώς δεν πρόκειται για ένα βιβλίο που θέλεις να το τελειώσεις, αντιθέτως εύχεσαι να μην τελειώσει) αλλά δικαιολογείται απόλυτα από το περιεχόμενό του.
These characters are in some ways created by their fellow characters (our protagonists); Foucault's Pendulum is very meta-authorial in that respect, much like Sophie's World.Eco gives us an unreliable narrator so that we're forced to think critically about the story we're given and wonder how much is true and how much may be the feverish imaginings of an unbalanced, misguided mind.
In Foucault's Pendulum, Casaubon and his friends Belbo and Diotallevi sift through the slush of conspiracy lunatics ("Diabolicals") to compile a master theory, a Plan, spun around the framework of the dissolution of the Knights Templar.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Revelation of the Identical:"Foucault's Pendulum" by Umberto Eco"You cannot escape one infinite, I told myself, by fleeing to another; you cannot escape the revelation of the identical by taking refuge in the illusion of the multiple."In "Foucault's Pendulum" by Umberto EcoI've always been a keen follower of Prof.
If there's one question I would like to ask him is this:"What about the question of being, as the Greeks first raised it?
Do you think Professor that this question is no longer a question, perhaps entirely dissolved by the sign and/or the 'language game'?
This is a novel that contrasts the acceptance, and delight, in the world as it is with the consequences of the desire to read in meanings to everything that we see about us.
In Eco's earlier book,The Name of the Rose, the detective mystery was parodied and this is taken one step further in this novel.
As the publishing house offers the untalented the opportunity to become authors.
So too the cults and sects the trio deal with offer meaning and a grand significance to people's lives.
نظرا لضخامة الرواية، ونظرا لأنني اريد تقديم ريفيو يليق بها سأقوم بتقسيم الريفيو الي 10 مراحل علي 7 ايام او اقل، متتالية(5) Gevurah السيفروت الخامس - جيبوراه - السيد دائما بعد الثورات تجد التخبطات في كل شيء...فوضي ما وزعزعة تحدث في الأيمان والثقافة وتظهر الخرافات نظريات المؤامرة غالبا بشكل كبيرخذ مصر علي سبيل المثال وتذكر كيف صارت بعد فبراير 2011 ،لكن الريفيو لن يتحمل التطويلفي بداية هذا الفصل يعود كازاوبون الي ايطاليا، ويقابل بيلبو مرة اخري والذي يبدو انه يعاني الكثير من التخبط من بعد ان هدأت ال

“ “Us two? All three of us are in this. If we don’t come out honorably, we’ll all look silly.” “Silly to whom?” “Why, to history. Before the tribunal of Truth.”“Quid est veritas?” Belbo asked. “Us,” I said.” ” (p.435) Truth? What is truth? Truth is relative. Or isn’t it?The fact that Umberto Eco portrays one of his characters quoting Pontius Pilate’s assertion that truth is hard to ascertain with some sort of consistent resonance of a Nietzschian Superman who has passed “beyond good and evil” i

Αυτό είναι ένα από αυτά καθώς, αν δεν το παρατήσει κάνεις πριν τις πρώτες 100 σελίδες (όπως παρατηρεί σωστά κ ο Ν.Τσ.), σε καταπλακωνει με μια απίστευτα λεπτομερή περιγραφή ΟΛΩΝ των συνωμοσιών που έχουν εξυφανθει σε αυτό το πλανήτη, εδώ και 1000 χρόνια, τουλάχιστον !!!
Δίπλα από αυτά ο Έκο σου παρουσιάζει μια άλλη ιστορία, γραμμένη στο περιθώριο αυτής αλλά τόσο αληθοφανή, που καταλήγεις στο τέλος, μαζί με τους πρωταγωνιστές, να αυταπατάσαι ότι το ψέμα είναι αλήθεια και η αλήθεια δεν είναι αυτή που νομίζεις ή που σου δίδαξαν να νομίζεις.
Εντούτοις υπολείπεται σαφώς από μία λογοτεχνική φόρμουλα αντάξια για ένα τέτοιο θέμα, καθώς για πολλές σελίδες καταντά απλά μια στείρα περιγραφή δοξασιων και σεναρίων που κουράζουν ακόμα και τον πιο έμπειρο αναγνώστη.
Ένα βιβλίο που θα το σταματήσεις πριν τις 100 σελίδες ή θα το απολαύσεις αργά μέχρι τέλους.
Στην αρχή σκέφτηκα πως είναι καλύτερο από το «Όνομα του Ρόδου», αλλά συμπέρανα ότι είναι δύο μεγάλα έργα, πολύ διαφορετικά μεταξύ τους.Στις 900 σελίδες ο Eco αποδεικνύει ότι είναι από τους ελάχιστους μεγάλους γνώστες της ιστορίας.
Άπειρες πληροφορίες καθαρά ιστορικές, αλλά και στα όρια του μύθου περί μυστικών οργανώσεων, κλασικών συνομωσιών και τάγματα ιπποτών.
Το βιβλίο αυτό αποτελεί μία κατηγορία μόνο του.
Τέλος, κάτι που δεν αφορά το βιβλίο.
Κατέληξα στο ότι ο Dan Brown είναι ένας μέτριος μιμητής του τεράστιου Umberto Eco.
One of those books where the author tediously says next to nothing, and all the semi-litterati can't figure out what he's trying to say, so they conclude he must be brilliant. A wasted effort by an otherwise talented (so I hear) author, and that portion of the gullible public that assumes that something profound is being said so long as they can't understand it.
This book is a conundrum to me.
I liked the story of three book editors accidentally enmeshing themselves in the world of conspiracy theory.
I liked the philosophical discussion of why we believe in things like Great Global Conspiracies.
But LORD, did Eco need an editor.
In parts of this book, the signal-to-noise ratio is distressingly low as Eco's talking heads sit and discuss the intricacies of Templar and Rosicrucian history for page after page after page.
My patience wore thinner and thinner as Eco name-checked his way across all of European history and added absolutely nothing to the story.
Çevirmen Şadan Karadeniz'in de değindiği ve arka kapakta gördüğümüz gibi, kitabı nasıl tanımlayacağımız bir muamma, çünkü kitaba her açıdan bakmak mümkün.
Ama buna ek olarak karşılıksız bir aşkın, hayatın karmaşıklığının ve anlamsızlığının, tarihin ve kitapların yapaylığının, çağın sıkıcılığının, algının sınırlılığının ve uçsuz bucaksızlığının yani izafiliğinin, 68 kuşağının, ikinci dünya savaşının, Tapınakçıların, Kabala'nın, tarihsel figürlerin (Shakespeare, H.
Ben romanın aslında tümünü kaplayan, pek de değinilmeyen bir şeye değinmek istiyorum: Bence Foucault Sarkacı bir varoluş romanı.
Roth, Paul Auster gibi yazarlarken, dünyanın bir yerinde Umberto Eco'nun yaşamış olması çok büyük bir şey.
Eco, tıpkı ondan çok etkilendiğini gördüğümüz Orhan Pamuk gibi, romanın içinde defalarca bu romanın nasıl bir roman olduğunu anlatıyor.
Naravno, istoriju srednjeg veka znaš u prste, istoriju književnosti, kao i kabalu, sipaš iz rukava i, uopšte, znaš sve moguće svetske kulturološke odrednice, ko je ko, kad je šta napravio, zašto, u kojim okolnostima i sa kakvim uverenjima, kao i šta se obično veruje da je bilo – a, ustvari nije bilo nego su to samo spekulacije, a ti znaš čije i šta su zlobnici njima nameravali da postignu.Standardno, dakle, kad je Umberto Eko u pitanju, s tim što ovde mora da se pojede mnooogo veće parče znanja koje je profesor rešio da ti sipa u glavu, da bi se došlo do onog mystery – detektivskog dela (kome je svrha, dabome, da lakše prođe ovo prvo).
No, the novel is difficult because it requires the reader to read and understand a whole substructure of literature that can be loosely classified as occult, or at least marginally so, otherwise a grand majority of the in-jokes and satire would be lost on the reader.
Mr. Eco is fantastically well-informed and has done an amazing job at his research, and despite the fact that the novel IS tongue-in-cheek, it's hard not to get the impression that our author is a seeker of knowledge.
Ne znam kad mi se čitanje knjige ovoliko činilo kao posao...a zadnjih dvadesetak stranica sam se osjećao kao da se vraćam s marša i jednostavno moram izdržati još tih kilometar-dva do cilja, iako me bole i noge i ramena u koja su se urezali remeni ranca.Ne mogu dati ocjenu, jer ne znam koju bih dao. na momente je knjiga bila izuzetno inteligentna i duhovita, na momente me izluđivala i imao sam osjećaj da se Eco besmisleno razmeće svojim znanjem.Treba mi prst viskija i vestern. Ne mora biti ni dobar. Ni viski ni vestern.
اما این که یهودی ها (یا صهیونیست ها) جهان را کنترل می کنند، همه ی ثروتمندان و دولتمردان فراماسون هستند و رازی مذهبی-جادویی در اختیار دارند و استقرار صهیونیست ها در فلسطین برای تکمیل کردن پیشگویی های کتب مقدس است و آخر الزمان و جنگ های صلیبی و پروتکل های یهودی برای کنترل جهان و تلمود و شیطان پرستی و چه و چه.این تئوری توطئه، که می گوید ما همه بازی خورده ی یک توطئه ی مشترک جهانی هستیم، مختص ایرانی ها نیست.
Either way these three friends, working for a small publishing house in Milan, decide to play a little game after one too many crazy ‘diabolicals’ obsessed with the occult and the mystery of the Templars comes to their office peddling the next conspiracy theory of the secret masters of the world.
What happens, though, when the crazies get wind of your incredibly elegant theory and begin to suspect that maybe there’s something to it and their lust for the ‘secrets’ you possess will brook no pleas of innocence and ignorance on the matter?Eco does a lot of clever things in this novel, not least of which is coming up with a syncretic theory of nearly everything that plausibly ties huge swathes of western history and occult theories into an overall Master-Plan neatly tied up with a bow.
These are the questions that arise in this tale of three editors and their journey down a path, a game to them at first, that leads them deep into the secret plot that they, themselves, created.Told mostly in flashback, the story is thickened with tales of the end of the second world war, loves and loves lost, the changing of regimes and the changing of revolutionaries as they age, often without grace.
The story gets down to it, eventually, leading the end of the book at quick pace down the road of conspiracy.
You will learn more than you ever wanted to know about the supposed plots of the Templars, middle to late medieval history and the like.
Video reviewA masterpiece, a must-read, dirò di più, a great novel.At once an ecyclopedic study of human stupidity, a flight of fancy of historical proportions, and a seven-hundred-page praise of a rather pretty Piemonte hill. Traps you into the same mechanisms that doom its characters, but it's gentle in showing you the trap's functioning, and sympathetic in sharing your pain.Not for kids who find it challenging to sit still through fifty-minute lectures.
This is also where it can lose some people, unless they have a good idea about things as diverse as medival history, mysticism, Gnosticism, cabalism, time charts and numerology, pagan rituals, World War II nostalgia, Brazilian macumba religion, satire of the Left and it's clueless ideology....there is a lot here.Now the bare bones of the plot: An Italian Colonel shows up to a publishing house with an alleged document showing the secret of the Knight Templars.
I find it amazing that Eco has the imagination and intellect to not only write this tale but to create "The Plan" is a work of true genius.
[ إن الناس تعاني جوعا للخطط، إذا قدمت لها واحدة تلقي بنفسها عليها مثل مجموعة من الذئاب.
تقوم على فكرة أساسية  و هي أن المؤامرة تقوم على الفراغ، المؤامرة منبعها عدم المؤامرةقد أدخلتني في حالة تفكير طويلة حول فكرة المؤامرة و السر، و أيضا قدرة التأويل، فكتبت هذه القراءة المنهِكة تناسبا مع الرواية المنهِكة، و طبعا فيهاذكر للأحداث و النهاية و تحليل لهامثلث (السر، المؤامرة، الكلمة) مع بندول إيكوقسمتها لخمس نقاطأولا ملخص الروايةثم المحاور الثلاثة: 1- السر 2- المؤامرة 3- الكلمةو أخيرا كيف تبتدع نصا من النص أو تاريخا من التاريخ أو أفعى من العصا أو مؤامرة
