https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17262567-fighting-for-life
I finally have the answer to the question "what famous person do you most wish you could have met?" Hands down - Dr Josephine Baker
NYRB has published this memoir of Josephine Baker, an American doctor who got sidelined into public health and made a phenomenal difference in child health in New York City.
She worked with poor immigrant babies, mothers, and school children, and radically changed the approach to child health by focusing on prevention rather than treatment.Baker was a radical pioneer, although she disclaims the role.
Baker also quietly states that she lived with another woman doctor her whole life, leaving the 1939 reader to draw conclusions.
Toward the end of the book Baker describes her role in the suffrage movement, and a trip she took to the Soviet Union in the mid-thirties.
An excellent memoir by a founder of child hygiene practices that brought about a stunning drop in early 20th-century child mortalities rates, often using methods of child care and nutrition that are taken for granted as "natural" today.
Baker was also prominent in the Woman's Suffrage Movement as it moved the country toward granting women the right to vote--with the hopes that further positive changes could be brought about (namely, establishing child labor laws) once that voting bloc was established.
Alas, she was disappointed that the movement lost its momentum once voting rights were granted.
This is one of the best memoirs I've ever read.
I read about this book after watching the tv show "The Knick." If you are in medicine, public health, a New Yorker or interested in learning about a fascinating woman....this book is for you!
Dr.Baker was a pioneer and a leader....an amazing woman who is responsible for promoting midwives, baby health, school nurses and so much more that we often take for granted.
She achieved so much during a time when men blocked her at every turn.
She even chased and tracked down Typhoid Mary to prevent her from infecting the public!
I confess, I was inspired to read this autobiography of an inspirational woman who transformed American public health because of this Hark, a vagrant comic.
By teaching mothers about seemingly simple things that most of us take for granted (don't give your baby beer, don't let them play in the gutter, give them regular baths, make sure they drink pasteurized milk, etc.), Dr. Baker was able to save the lives of tens of thousands of children who otherwise would have died from diseases like dysentery and helped to permanently lower the infant mortality rate in New York City.
She also invented an infant formula that was one of the only safe feeding options for non-breastfeeding mothers, routed out all the unqualified midwives in the city, which helped decrease deaths of women during childbirth, and created a school-based health system that still exists today in which nurses were placed in public schools.
I think one of my favorite aspects of Baker's autobiography is her down-to-earth attitude towards such an impressive life's work.
It's great to be reminded that a noble pursuit doesn't require maudlin digressions or justifications.Fighting for Life accomplishes several things simultaneously: while it gives an overview of how public health was revolutionized at the turn of the century, it also offers an interesting perspective on the various milestones of women's rights in America - the founding of Vassar, women being admitted into medical colleges, getting the right to vote, etc.
In my opinion, that pattern depicts genuine self-possessed power in action.Considering Fighting for Life was written in 1939, it feels very relevant to contemporary discourse on public medicine and health.
I enjoyed the excerpted version so much, that I almost immediately ordered her book.The beginning takes a little while to get into, but soon enough, you're following her to New York as she enrolls in medical school and later sets up her own practice with a fellow woman doctor and then gets involved with preventive public health and on and on it goes, as she steps into different roles and situations and seeks to fill the gaps she finds.Baker has a no-nonsense style to her writing.
Josephine Baker became an MD in 1898, when there were hardly any women MD's.
In 1908, she became the first Head of the newly created Bureau of Child Hygiene in New York City, a post that she held for 15 years.
Midwife training and licensing and visiting nurses to mothers of newborns began on her watch.
Baker writes with pride in the accomplishments of the Bureau and with a matter-of-fact, common sense attitude towards her role.
Baker also was the one who physically had to get Typhoid Mary out of the kitchens of the city.
Some of the chapters are a bit meandering in their musings on different experiences in Baker's life, but all together the book comes together quite well to tell a story of a time roughly 100 years ago...that was not so different from today.
Baker, writing from the period between the two world wars, reflects on her medical training and her many accomplishments, but ends on a questioning note about humanity and the future, all that is left to accomplish, and what the right path is to take.
Really, really good.
She was quite a person, and her measures to improve public health in New York City saved some 90,000 babies.One of the most compelling questions in the book is why save the lives of babies?
Their importance to their parents is given, but her experiences with World War 1 and touring Russia in the 1930s as they prepared for war suggested that government only cares about the lives of childbearing women and their babies when they are trying to make sure they have ample cannon fodder.
I think this is still an important question.

Written in 1939, the author reviews her life's work as the first woman doctor to head the New York Bureau of Child Hygiene at the turn of the century. Baker is credited with implementing practices that saved the lives of thousands of children. She had to face corruption and graft of Tammany NYC and men who didn't want a woman for a boss. Baker was active in the suffrage movement. She was pro breastfeeding, pro midwives, discouraged highly specialized medicine in favor of general practitioners to meet the needs of the general public. We need someone like her today.
no, not that Josephine Baker. I don't even know why my library bought this book - maybe they were confused too - but I'm glad they did. It's the memoir of the woman who pretty much invented the preventive approach to public health in New York city in the late 19th and early 20th centuries with childhood nutrition, baby clinics and prenatal care. She became a doctor when women had a hard time getting into medical school, became a cabinet level officer in city administrations where there were no women and played hardball politics with everyone.
A simply fascinating autobiography written in the late 1930's. S. Josephine Baker was one of the first women in the US to get a medical degree in the early 1900s. She later went on to be a "crusader" for children's health care and the Children's Health Agency in New York City, she also founded herself as one of the early supporters of the Women's Suffrage movement in the US. This lady was definitely before her time. She is not a great writer, but her true story is a great one that every woman should read.
Written in 1939 by the past head of the Department of Child Hygiene in NYC, this book is an eye-opener in the history of child healthcare in the US. S. Josephine Baker became a doctor and then went into the city healthcare department and basically built it from the ground up. Nearly all US schools have a nurse on site because of this amazing woman.Baker writes frankly about her life and her struggles. She witnessed the worst in poverty and child care and worked tirelessy to change that. Her story is a worthy read.
By the time she retired in 1923, Dr. Baker's public health programs had saved the lives of 90,000 NYC children. The bald facts of her life make for an interesting narrative, what with her Poughkeepsie childhood, her (two) captures of Typhoid Mary, her day with Teddy Roosevelt, and her 1930s tour of the Soviet Union. But the woman could write, too. She wasn't shy about her accomplishments, and her creativity and mettle are in full force on every page.
Everyone should know about Dr. Baker, one of the first women doctors who saved thousands of babies through her child health programs and established practices that are so standard now that it's hard to believe that someone initiated them. I loved her great practical spirit and her views were so modern. We could use her leadership now.
The book started out slow and dull. I stuck with it and fortunately it ended up being a fascinating read. Dr. Baker wrote the memoir in 1939. As a woman and a physician, she was way ahead of the times and a force to be reckoned with. Dr. Baker should be the role model for young ladies for using her brain instead of some of the women of today that are only known for their butts or breasts.
The woman championed preventative care and "saved" 90,000 babies as a result. Really fascinating look at infant healthcare and the start of what seems so common sense nowadays. The bits on her trip to Russia are particularly entertaining. A memoir entirely on her professional experience, I need to find a bio on this woman, because I bet she had a crazy personal life.
An autobiography of one of the first American female doctors, this book is interesting for many reasons. It depicts the struggles that women faced in gaining acceptance as professionals in the early 1900's, and it shows the deplorable conditions that poor people endured in New York City at that time.
What a fascinating book! It wasn't brilliantly written and the timelines were a little blurry, but it was a treat to read about such a successful, brilliant, thoughtful woman. She was first in many areas in her day and responsible for groundbreaking public health policy and practice, much of which we follow to this day. I'm so glad I read this book.
A very interesting read regarding the early days of medicine. And it really is remarkable how much Josephine Baker paved the way for women in the medical field and how much I never knew about all of this history.
This book is fantastic! If you have any interest at all in public health, child welfare, feminism, New York City in the early 20th century, this is an amazing, well-written book that's very worth checking out.
I really enjoyed this book. I'm very interested in public health and learned who S Josephne Baker was in a book about Typhoid Mary. She was a feminist trailblazer who knew how to solve problems and get things done. I love to know the origins of things, and I learned some great stuff from this book!
Autobiography of an amazing woman. One of the first female physicians in the US and a woman who did an incredible job working on child hygiene in the early 1900's that saved many, many babies lives. Often opinionated but interesting.
This is one of the most fascinating books I have ever read. Baker provides such an interesting perspective about life in NYC, politics, public health and feminism. The part about Typhoid Mary is the icing on the cake.
This book was written by A no-nonsense woman who was part of the beginning of public health in the US. Her insights and opinions on the events of the early 20th century are really interesting.
I loved learning about Sarah Baker and her amazing contributions to public health. Her writing has a sense of humor that is great.
Little long-winded, especially at first, but I like her sense of humor. What she accomplished is impressive!
