https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139054.Tropic_Moon
Joseph Timar, 23 years old, from a good bourgeois family in provincial France, lands at Libreville, Gabon, to take up a job at a timber company.
That the uncle is such a well-known person certainly opens doors for Timar, but it does nothing to elevate his loneliness or make him a popular person with the woodloggers, the only white people in the area who frequent the hotel where he is staying.
Although Timar makes his only stand against colonial injustice in the end, we do not know whether it had any impact, as he is shipped back to France in a delirious state.Simenon’s sober and suggestive language evoked a very uneasy atmosphere.
A deliciously compressed little colonial nightmare. Less apocalyptic in tone than that other- more culturally entrenched - literary work of anti-colonialism Heart of Darkness, but infinitely more insidious. One can almost sense the moral and physical putrefaction rise from the pages, slowly invading the system like a tropical fever. My first of Simenon's romans durs, and it won't be the last.
Δεν τρελάθηκα....
Le coup de lune  ...titolo intrigante , promettente e invece ... maddeché!!La storia è esile e confusa ,il protagonista un babbeo infantile e istericoQuesto romanzo gronda sudore gronda meschinità e maschilismo (alla ennesima potenza del colonialismo )Au revoir monsieur Simenon ! :)(e io che volevo La Marie du port , ma era ancora in prestito!)
This in especially true for Tropic Moon ("Coup de lune"), originally published in 1933, one of three novels set in Africa.
Having traveled and worked in several countries in Africa for much of 1932, Simenon's personal exposure to the harsh realities of French colonialism are, without doubt, manifest in this brief, intense, yet remarkable and very readable book.The title of the novel hints at the story's intricacy.
Also for the first time, he experiences Africa and Africans directly and intimately.
Simenon is unswerving in tone and perspective as he concludes the book consistent with the colonial reality of the time.
Εδώ έχουμε να κάνουμε με ένα δραματικό νουάρ.Ένας νεαρός Γάλλος, ο Ζοζέφ Τιμάρ, που για να δουλέψει και να δει τον κόσμο ταξιδεύει στην εξωτική και απομακρυσμένη Γκαμπόν, στο ξενοδοχείο όπου θα μείνει, γνωρίζει μια αισθησιακή γυναίκα, την Αντέλ, που θα τον μαγέψει, αν και δεν είναι και τόσο νέα πια.
Οι λευκοί που βρίσκονται στην χώρα, τι κάνουν ακριβώς; Η Αντέλ σε τι ιστορίες είναι μπλεγμένη; Πόσο θέλει ο άνθρωπος για να σεληνιαστεί, με την συνεχόμενη ζέστη, τους ξένους ολόγυρα, όλα τα περίεργα που συμβαίνουν, και μια γυναίκα που σε έχει ξετρελάνει;Την διαφορά στο βιβλίο δεν την κάνει τόσο η πλοκή -που είναι ενδιαφέρουσα και έχει μια κάποια αγωνία για την συνέχεια αλλά δεν σε μαγεύει κιόλας-, αλλά η υπέροχη γραφή του Σιμενόν, έτσι λιτή και διεισδυτική όπως είναι, με τις υπέροχες περιγραφές των τοπίων, των διαφόρων σκηνικών και των χαρακτήρων της ιστορίας.
Okay, I am entirely unsure how this Simenon escaped me for so long, especially considering there is little I love more than mental/metaphysical/physiological unraveling deep in the swarthy throes of hostile geography...
yes.
death by that or by woman...This is jungle fiction of trans-colonialist madness at its best, an afternoon read, sweaty, delicious, sexy and revolting all the same, the green hell lives...
You know that feeling when you are slightly hungover - clammy, mild smell of off spirits about you, small headache behind your eyes that's threatening to erupt - and you are stuck somewhere claustrophobic, overly warm, and inescapable.
No windows can be opened, the heating is too high, there are too many people in the space, you just have to make it through before you pass out or succumb to building nausea that wasn't there before you stepped into this space, and the panic of possibly breaking a social taboo is compounding any feeling you may have.That was this book.
Simenon here is the literary cousin of writers of noir fiction such as Dashiell Hammett and (a little later) Raymond Chandler, but his blackness goes beyond being a mere setting for the book; it becomes its principal subject.The setting is Gabon, a former French colony in West Africa.
Both books are set in African colonies; both feature young protagonists who enter the country full of hope and leave in disarray; even the journey upriver, with its stop at a native settlement along the way, makes one think of the earlier novel.
A well-connected young man with a weak character goes to Gabon to make his fortune in the Colonies.
The young man, Joseph Timar, takes up with Adele Renaud, an innkeeper whose husband dies -- right around the same time that she is suspected of the murder of a black named Thomas.
Tropic Moon is the first of Georges Simenon's romans durs to be set outside of France.Despite being warned by his politico uncle back in France to beware of partnerships, he takes up with Adele to run a lumber concession upriver in the bush.
A book without heroes.
A book about the sliding away of the mind.
This novel got Simenon banned from the west Africa french colonies.
In french the title is Moonburn or Moonstroke and while Tropic Moon is a good title, man, Moonstroke is so much doper.
Just 1/200 novels written by Georges Simenon.
A french man goes to Africa in 1933 and lives the colonial life at a hotel, where he is witness to a murder but doesn't say anything so he can continue to sleep with the suspected murderer.
Even by Simenon's high standards, this is a mesmerizing novel.
A literal reading tells the story of Joseph Timar who leaves France for Gabon with a prospect of a job.
He is one of my favourite Modernist writers for the simple reason that he never provides his reader with clarity.
And yet he has this disturbing ability to reach deep within the reader's id so that glimpses of a kind of understanding are made possible.
I know the last two sentences are more than a little contradictory, but that I can believe in both is testament to the strength of Simenon's story telling expertise.
Βραδυφλεγές διήγημα, με το κέντρο βάρους να μετακυλίεται στην ποιότητα της [περι]γραφής και την ατμόσφαιρα, όχι στο μυστήριο και την ιστορία per se. Ο G. Simenon έχει παραδώσει μακράν καλύτερα αναγνώσματα: Το αστυνομικό νουάρ τού βγαίνει περισσότερο αβίαστα.
Gabun um 1930, ein junger Franzose sucht sein Glück in den Kolonien.
Durch Protektion seines Onkels zu einer Stelle bei einer ansässigen Firma gelangt, hofft hier das Geld zu machen, was ihm in der Heimat vermeintlich verwehrt blieb.
Doch der Traum zerplatzt schnell, die Firma eigentlich pleite, sein Arbeitsplatz besetzt.
Band der neuaufgelegten Non-Maigret-Reihe Simenons bei Diogenes zeigt uns das französische Afrika zwischen den beiden Kriegen.
Simenon beschreibt fast „in gewohnter Weise“ das Leben dort und die Personen.
Das Buch ist angenehm zu lesen und macht Lust auf die restlichen 48 Bücher dieser Reihe.

A young Frenchman goes to Gabon (a French Colony in the 30s)to work in his family's company. He reaches Libreville, but is prevented from going further into the interior where the factory is located (at first) The book reminds me of Paul Bowles The Sheltering Sky, where foreigners are irrevocably changed by spending time in Africa (in a bad way). What bothered me about the book is that he didn't care about the locals much, in fact didn't seem to really notice them.
Compelling novel about the evils of colonialism sans the obtrusive lecturing of Kingsolver' Poisonwood Bible. Although the introduction by Norman Rush discusses some similarities between Simenon and Graham Greene, I though this book was much closer to Orwell's Bumese Days. Captivating, sparse writing. Like Hemingway but less forced and more seamless. This is my first Simenon novel and it left me wanting more.
This is a searing indictment of 1930's white colonial attitudes and behaviour towards the native black population in the French colony of Gabon. The murder mystery is so so and dated. What remains in the memory is the heat and the sweat and the callous, horrible treatment of black Africans by arrogant, cruel and corrupt white Europeans.
Sex, murder, privilege, racism, and all the nastiness of French Colonial rule in Gabon circa 1930. The only thing that could make this book more satisfying would be if it was only 130 pages long. Wait -- it is 130 boozy, feverish pages long. A perfect afternoon read.
Very reminiscent of Graham Greene, this short book is set in Gabon in the 1930s.
Young Frenchman Joe Timar has arrived in Libreville to take up a job in the interior.
He discovers that the company is just about going under, there is no way to get upriver and his predecessor is threatening to shoot him on sight if he appears.
Stuck at the hotel he has time to observe his fellow colonialists and gets involved with Adele, the soon to be widowed owner of the hotel.
Quite a sad tale, watching him succumb to fever and possible madness.
Ατμοσφαιρικο γεματο κινηματογραφικες σκηνες,εχει γυριστει μαλιστα και ταινια.Χωρις ιδιαιτερη πλοκη και χωρις καθολου αγωνια,ο ηρωας του Σιμενον ταξιδευει απ τη Γαλλια στη Γκαμπον για δουλειες.Εκει ερωτευεται τη Αντελ η οποια εχει διαπραξει φονο εναντια στον Αφρικανο Τομα.Ενα φονο που θα τον αποδωσουν σε καποιον επισης Αφρικανο προκειμενου ν απαλλαγει η λευκη Αντελ απ αυτον.Μικροθεωριες συνομωσιας και η μη αποδοση δικαιοσυνης θα οδηγησουν τον Τιμαρ,κεντρικο ηρωα,στο σεληνιασμο.
A story about the evils of colonization. The colonizers become victims of their own racism, sexism, nepotism, and alcoholism while simultaneously ruining the lives of every native person they come across.This book made the feel the heat of tropical Africa.
A sort of French version of Heart of Darkness, a study of increasing madness and a criticism of the colonial system. I could almost feel the oppressive heat. Fascinating.
Dinner..." (p.52) are running starts to most scenes.(The introduction by Norman Rush tells us that Simenon deliberately limited his vocabulary to 2000 words which demonstrates further his restraint)As for the empathy, it's again a simple yet effective approach.
"Only the polished brass bar made him feel safe, since it was just like the ones in any provincial cafe in France." Little differences like this comfort Timar, as do the habits he forms early in the bar scenes which he has difficulty parting with.The most memorable occasion of Simenon's exploration of the alien surroundings is when Timar is on a canoe with 12 hired colonials.
Georges Simenon wrote the very good series of policiers featuring Inspector Maigret about the operation and application of law and justice.
Instead we have a skillfully evoked atmosphere of moral and sexual depravity, injustice and exploitation; reading this book made me feel soiled by the contact.
It is compelling.This is a more accessible version of Conrad's Heart of Darkness (and that is a compliment).It is the story of a naive young man, who arrives in the colony and is gradually drawn deeper into the corruption and depravity around him.
Not as splashy or fun as most of the other Simenons I've read but it's clear that he is stepping nimbly (rather than lightly) through a very loaded and traumatic subject.
I was very thankful for the excellent Norman Rush introduction to the NYRB edition, which aside from its insight into the linguistic anomalies, also gave some background on Simenon's own complicated relationship with French African colonialism.
It's complicated but it's less that it's a muddle than a fine striation, not unlike the frequently used phrase "bands of light and shadows" that pops up in moments of crisis when Timar is left alone in a room with his thoughts.
Even though we can look at the social context of the novel, the white stranger deep in Africa in a place where they treat the natives like clowns and women as objects to use.
Timar trusts Adele even though he knows better.
This seems like an easy story to sort out, but it takes the reader down a river of unknown that does not have the best answers.
This makes for an interesting part because the reader doesn't always know exactly what is truth and what is a lie.
I find that this unreliable narrative makes the story even more fantastic.
Knjigu sam počela čitati radi izazova u ATW in 80 books .
Trebala mi je knjiga za Gabon i ovo je bila jedina koju sam mogla nabaviti (hvala Dahlia).
Simenon Georges mi je bio poznat samo po knjigama o inspektoru Maigret kojih sam par i pročitala.Unatoč svim predrasudama koje sam u stratu imala počela sam čitati knjigu i ostala PAF!!!
Knjiga je stvarno dobra.
Radnja se zbiva u Gabonu u periodu dok je još bio francuska kolonija.
Knjiga me zaintrigirala tako da sam tražila članke o Gabonu na Internetu.
Nakon objavljivanja ove knjige piscu je bio zabranjen odlazak u francuske kolonije.

Simenon, Georges. TROPIC MOON. (1933). ****.  Set in French West Africa (Gabon) this is the story of Joseph Timar, a young Frenchman sent there by his family in France to make his fortune. When he arrives at Libreville, he soon learns that the company he was to work for is essentially bankrupt. He hangs around the bar of his hotel and soon has a torrid affair with Adele, the wife of the owner. Adele is black and in her thirties – about ten years older than Timar – but made to represent all the e
He hangs around the bar of his hotel and soon has a torrid affair with Adele, the wife of the owner.
Adele is black and in her thirties – about ten years older than Timar – but made to represent all the erotic aspects of the African woman.
Soon, Adele’s husband dies of Snail Fever and a black man is murdered behind the hotel.
Timar, caught up in his sexual fantasy, is soon embroiled in a scheme with Adele to work a lumber concession in the jungle.
It is here, in the interior, that Timar realizes that he has become a racist and encounters the corruption that was colonial Africa.
