https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125211.Life_Studies_and_For_the_Union_Dead
Though I profess my undying admiration for the school of confessionalism, I’ve somehow evaded Lowell, one of the founding fathers of this ‘school,’ and indeed, the teacher of both Anne Sexton and Sylvia Plath (my two favorite poets), and his collection Life Studies, which is one of the seminal works of the poetic subgenre.Like most poetry I’ve read, however, even these two collections suffered their predecessors’ intellectual imprints—upon me, that is.
I’m not all that familiar with Lowell, as I said, and I’d be curious to read more prose from him.
A deeply difficult work to penetrate. This is not for the reader who is looking for some relaxed reading, which isn't to say this is better than some relaxed reading. Lowell is an acquired taste and can be frustrating many times. But this is one of the most thoughtful and heartbreaking works when you've taken it in its entirety and worked through the themes he develops. Part of its intensity comes from what a finely constructed work it is. This man takes on his demons.
This collection combines two of Robert Lowell's most popular books:  Life Studies  and  For the Union Dead ...From  Life Studies ...The snow had buried Stuyvesant.The subways drummed the vaults. I heardthe El's green girders charge on Third,Manhattan's truss of adament,that groaned in ermine, slummed on want. . . .Cyclonic zero of the word,God of our armies, who interredCold Harbour's blue immortals, Grant!Horseman, your sword is in the groove!Ice, ice. Our wheels no longer move.Look, the fixed
23* * *This might be nature - twenty stories high,two water tanks, tanned shingle, corsettedby stapled pasture wire, while bed to bed,we two, one cell here, liegazing into the ether's crystal ball,sky and a sky, and sky, and sky, till death -my heart stops .
Having just finished a collection of Richard Wilbur's early poems a few days ago, I can't help but compare these two poets with one another.
None of that would prohibit a fellow from writing good poetry, as far as I can see, and the general consensus is that this collection is a modern classic of American poetry.
I'll probably read it again, because I just hate that poetry skips across my mind like a flat rock thrown across the water.
If one considers himself or herself a fan of contemporary poetry, then this collection is probably mandatory, but I could have read the user's guide to my dishwasher and been as affected.

I'd intended to read Lowell for a while after reading about him while on a flight from San Diego. Over a year later, I found this book in a box on the side of the road in Somerville, Massachusetts, where I was staying with a friend for a few weeks while between places.I started reading it after I moved into a bedroom on the third floor of a house in Jamaica Plain, burying myself into Lowell while my blue curtains billowed from the wind on autumn nights.
Most of these poems were very well-written, with breath-taking tempos and cut-glass phrasing. I almost always appreciated the jarring but oddly appropriate word choice, and the intricacy of the phrasing. But, with very few exceptions, I felt like I was wallowing in teen angst as I read these. A few poems turned outward, as in Dropping South: Brazil, and For the Union Dead, but far, far too many turned inward, and reading those poems was quite draining.
I really liked these two collections. Robert Lowell managed to transform the literary genre with his more personal "confessional" writing, with him showing the darker tones of American life, life behind the curtains. Lowell rightfully deserves his title especially when we are still using that style today.
Skunk Hour was life changing
3.5?
The poem, "For The Union Dead" is probably enough for me to give this collection at least 3 stars.
From "Terminal Days at Beverly Farms" to my personal favorite, "Three Months Spent Away," Lowell's work can be filled with a numbing heartbreak at times.
His work, especially, Life Studies/For The Union Dead, have resonated with me ever since.
"For The Union Dead" is a particularly savage critique of American history via the concept of urban renewal.
Having grown up in Buffalo, a city ravaged by disastrous urban renewal projects and political ineptitude, that aspect of the poem resonates greatly.
Plugged away at this off and on over a few weeks, reading it on coffee breaks at Starbucks, lunch hour in Frist, buses.
Not with my comfort reading at home in the bath.
Finally finished it today while waiting for a bus at the mall.Interesting.
I'll have to read it again just to absorb the nuances...
rhymes so subtle I missed them on first reading, rhythm faint, never jarring.But much of it didn't grip me, quite.
I have two problems reading poetry: first, 'Selected Poems' are always too long, but also rarely representative; second, 'Collected Poems' are always way too long; third, individual books of poetry always contain more crap than gem.
Lowell's best poems are really, really great- in this book I recommend Beyond the Alps, During Fever, Man and Wife, Skunk Hour; Middle Age, Those Before Us, Eye and Tooth, Law, The Drinker, Jonathan Edwards, Caligula, For the Union Dead.
I'll be re-reading them.
If I ever have to read another poem about some poet's holiday to South America, on the other hand...
You can't call yourself a fan of the Confessionals without reading some Robert Lowell. A great of American poetry, the observations and story-telling in his poems is magnificent and truthful, and it takes me right to where he was as a poet, an American, and as a person. While he's not my favorite of the Confessionals (see: Anne Sexton), it's well worth the read if you are a fan of poetry, especially the poetry of the mid-20th century.
Weird to think that for a time in the '50s Lowell was the U.S. poet with the highest visibility.
I'm sure he's still widely taught, but I never hear young people bringing him up to me, unlike, say, Robert Frost or Eliot.
Lowell at times wanders off down hallways of wearing his learning on his sleeve, which was no doubt widely appreciated in real time, but does not hold up well.
When he narrows down to a single day, a single feeling, the power of his language takes the miniaturist focus of his poem to a higher level, making it haunting and unforgettable.
I'll be rereading this a few times.
I read excerpts of this one five or so years ago, and it struck me as pretentious and insincere, but now that I'm a little bit wiser (or I fancy myself as such), it seems to be a raw yet measured response to living and dying. It is a deep-felt reaction to childhood and the memories that we carry with us for a lifetime, even as new, large, overwhelming experiences threaten to overtake those formative times. I think I'd like to revisit it again in another five years or so and see how my reaction has changed.
I realize I'm going to get blasted for giving this book such a poor rating.
I was assigned this book for class, and while my poetry is equally depressing, the only way I could get through this assignment without offing myself was to relax with it in the pool and hot tub in Las Vegas with a frozen strawberry margarita full of substantial tequila shots, then garnished with more tequila, that no one in their right mind should drink alone, but it got me through the book.
Maybe I can appreciate it for itself someday, but that year was not it.
I don't normally read too much poetry, mainly because I don't overly enjoy it. But since I had to for one of my courses, I read this one. It was interesting how it was written. I enjoyed that it was about his life and about specific people he knew from his life. I don't really have too much to say about this book of poetry. If you enjoy reading poetry, I recommend you picking this book up and giving it a read.
This landmark collection of work is filled with amazing use of rhyme and voice, as well as poems that feel monumentally influential to modern poetry. Besides showing an expertise in seamless end rhymes, Lowell began his shift to free verse and slant rhyme in these poems, and his use of both can still be seen as innovative today.
I can sense the manic energy behind the references to Ford Maddox Ford and other people of that time and place. Life Studies is particularly interesting and gives an alternative vision of what autobiographical poetry might look like. Occasional forays into depression aside, Lowell's poetry crackles with texture.
I'm not that great a poetry reader & I'll confess I thought it was boring and self involved at times (of course that sounds silly given that Lowell is a confessional poet). But, some of it really shined for me, especially the memoir sections (I realize that moments ago I complained about self involvement.
This has been my favorite collection of poetry for the last seven years, read together it is brilliant even though the individual poems do not all stand alone. Actually, i think that quality it precisely what I like about it.
3.5 stars. Oh, Skunk Hour. how i enjoy you.
some poems in here are 1, some are 5 for me
Great, snarky, blue-blooded poet. If you've ever lived in Boston, or had a family that drove you nuts, read this.
"None of these poems struck me as failures but I am also having a hard time remembering them." Glad I finally read these... important, sure.
The Mouth of the Hudson being my favorite, when in top form these poems wilt the world, others are a bit obscure.
Not as hot on Life Studies, but For the Union Dead was weird, dreamlike, sad and moving. Life Studies more just sad, although there are some moving moments in it too.
fantastic.
this is my favorite book of poetry,"these victorious figures of bravado ossified young."
