https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1648738.The_Forge
The book is an interesting look into the reactions of plantation owners and Southern aristocrats to the Civil War. The Vaidens - how should I describe them?
The book follows the various members of the Vaiden family in the time just before, during, and just after the Civil War. Outwardly, the book is just the simple story of this family, how they cope with the changes in the South after losing the war.
However, Stribling, while being a Southerner himself, takes a somewhat different view of the South than most others writing at the same time.
Stribling's first of a trilogy, the second of which, The Store won the Pultizer in 1933, The Forge is a winding tale of action and a picture of life as I've never considered it at that time, a very human rendition of the war time south and the Yankees who resided here.
It's a long one at 500+ pages and much of it written in dialect, thus it took me a little longer than most novels to read, but it has left me wanting to know more about the people during the Civil War, not to mention, Stribling is very simply, a darn good writer.
The books begin at the start of the Civil War and follow one Southern family through reconstruction.The second in the series, The Store, won the Pulitzer in 1933, so I decided to read the entire series.The Forge was very successful at creating this family and depicting their lives.
The pace was quick, in fact in the 500 or so pages of this first book, we went all the way through a family owning slaves, signing up to fight in the Civil War, losing half of their family in the battles, losing the war, losing their slaves and eventually losing all of their money.
Very readable and fair, especially considering it was published in 1931.
I just thought I'd include this since although I read it a long time ago, it's a little known bookd about the Civil War and I have fond memories of it. This novel was written in the thirties about a locale near the Alabama-Tennessee border during the Civil War, based loosely on living memory, and has rich dialogue and an authentic feel about it. I've got a copy if you want to borrow.
This is the first book in T.S. Stribling's trilogy. If I'm going to read a Pulitzer winner, and the winner is in a series then it makes sense to me to read the whole series. The remaining books in this series are "The Store" and "Unfinished Cathedral". The series is great historical fiction.
Interesting book. Portrays the South after the Civil War. Mainly read it as a precursor to The Store.The Forge follows the story of Miltiades Vaiden, a Civil War veteran who has returned to his southern home in the hopes of rebuilding and eventually rising into the ranks of the middle class.
Published in 1931 - about Civil War in the South and views of slavery. Some used the Bible to justify slavery which I had forgotten. Caution if you're offended by the "N" word because it is full of it; you have to keep in mind of when it was written. First book of a trilogy, the 2nd of which won the Pulitzer Prize and is called "The Store" which I have ordered from the library.
The Republican party will see to it that honest Republicans don't starve."Democratic Party = KKK = bondage; Republican Party = freedom to think and vote accordingly."The government will protect them to that extent in the right of every citizen to cast his vote.""I imagine if they (black men) intended to vote the Democratic ticket (KKK, white plantation owners) you gentlemen would see the iniquity of forbidding them to come to the polls.""Then you don't even pretend that it's anything more than a scheme to forward your own political ends!"Now onto reading book 2 of the series, and the Pulitzer Prize winner, The Store."
I had a difficult time discerning whether the author's hypocrisy was intentional or ironic with regard to his characters.
Yet even the losses of his protagonists were revealed with a deadpan, somewhat tongue in cheek tone, one which made all of the characters seem like simpletons unable to comprehend the world beyond their own selfish desires.This was a very, very difficult book to come by, one that has been on mt to-read list for years.
Most copies retail for somewhere north of $30 up to $1800.
Somehow I scored a first edition hardbound copy for $10.
This book felt like a truthful account of a family during that time period (just before, during, and just after the Civil War). Most books of about this time period try to glorify the South in some way, and they avoid all of the real problems, issues and social hypocrisies that that existed.That being said this book is uncomfortable to read at times, because of their poor treatment of slaves and former slaves. However, at the same time it seems like a time capsule of how live was like. It shows the good, bad, and horrific sides.
It took me a long time to track down this book. I had to put in three different interlibrary loan requests before the library was able to get me a copy. So was it worth the wait? Meh. It wasn't bad, and I'm going to read the next book in the trilogy, but it wasn't the best thing I've read. It was okay.
an interesting book. written in 1930 as the first book in a series of a 100 year history of the South. This book covers the period before the Civil War and through reconstruction. It is set in northern Alabama. Definitely not "politically correct" in today's environment but an excellent history.
Langauge and social views are dated. Characters are intriguing. Darker than gone with the wind. Still, the story is engaging. The reason I read it is because I'm interested in the sequel.
Entertaining story, told from the point of view of a southern family at the beginning of the civil war. I have the second and third in the series and will read them as well.
