https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18762171-citizen-13660
I've had a real crisis of faith since the election. How do I tell my students to be honest and decent, work hard and treat people right when none of those things are rewarded? When the highest office is held by a person who is proudly mendacious, cruel, petty, lazy, incurious? Who in turn rewards people who are the same?My teaching has taken a turn. My 7th graders are currently reading Citizen 13660 and connecting it to NSEERS, executive orders banning Muslims, and anti-immigrant rhetoric.
A beautiful blend of history, graphic novel, and story telling. Citizen 13660 is the story of Mine Okubo and her life at two japanese internment camps after pearl harbor. Her fantastic drawings bring to life the daily activities and hardships they endured. The resourcefulness of the people is fascinating, watching them create everything from furniture to gardens from next to nothing is inspiring. The human spirit really shines in this book and although the idea of the camps is cruel and unjust, the book doesn't focus as much on that aspect but shows what they accomplished and overcome.
This graphic memoir of life for a young Nisei woman in the internment camps during WWII was published shortly after the war, and considered an important document of this shameful period in American history.
Cameras & photography were not allowed in the camps so Okubo's book remains one of the few visual representations of evacuee life from the period created by an actual evacuee.
Highly recommended for all Americans, especially those who don't know about the internment camps.
In the 1983 introduction, Okubo writes, "I hope that things can be learned from this tragic episode, for I believe it could happen again." Sadly, this work seems just as timely now as it did when first published in 1946.
I didn't find the prose or the art especially striking, though I might if I read it again. Where I found the most value in this was in reading about the monotony of the camp, of the day-to-day acceptance of a set of awful conditions, and just making the best of them because you have no other choice. It's heartbreaking, and this novel has reminded me of a part of history that's (unfortunately) easily forgotten, and prompted me to read more about it.
Now, more and more graphic books are being written and published that cover important aspects of history and, in the same way Art Spiegelman’s Maus books are used in schools to study the Holocaust, Miné Okubo’s Citizen 13660 is an ideal vehicle for presenting a different aspect of World War II to students.
Miné was required to report for an interview that would lead to her eventual relocation in an internment camp: “As a result of the interview, my family name was reduced to No. 13660.” (pg 19 left below.) The Okubo siblings were then issued a number of tags to use for their belongings and themselves with this number.
The fourth blank is on page 118 and describes perfectly the emptiness of the land they were traveling through and makes the reader wonder after reading the last line of the page "The meals on the train were good after camp fare."  Page 128 which shows the rooms they had been given to live in is followed by a plank page with illustrates how much they really had.
The final blank is on page 206 and I feel it was a wonderful choice as the text reads :"In January of 1944, having finished my documentary sketches of camp life, I decided to leave." The blank was masterful in that is showed that she was done, there was nothing more to draw and so there was nothing drawn.
It is of utmost importance for survivors of trauma, like the Japanese who endured the racist and violent internment during World War Two, to tell their own stories.
Published in 1946, Citizen 13660 was the first account of Japanese internment which was told from a survivor's perspective and which showed what was really happening in these concentration camps (as FDR and the government called them): forced assimilation, starvation, unsanitary conditions, exploited labor.
My one problem with the book was that it becomes apparent that, overall, Okubo believes Japanese internment was merely a minor blot on American exceptionalism, "freedom," and "democracy" and not another manifestation of American genocidal colonialism, which continues until today.
This is a graphic journal documenting the evacuation and internment of the author, Mine Okubo in the early 1940s. It is widely recognized as an important reference book on the internment of the Japanese in the United States during World War II. The journal, which describes the day to day lives of the confined people, includes over 200 of her sketches (cameras were not allowed in the camp). This record of the struggles and indignities of bewildered and humiliated people, is told without bitterness and with dashes of humor. A quick and powerful read. Quite simply, a masterpiece.
Perhaps it's obvious to state but one doesn't read this book for the prose. The writing is, in fact, a bit terse and lacking in color and imagination. I suppose you might say the tone perfectly matches the author's experiences living in internment camps. Okubo certainly doesn't romanticize the poor and thoughtless conditions that these communities were forced into. All of her observations are stated matter of factly, much like the accompanying images. A solid, no-frills book. I feel ready to read No-No Boy now!
Even though I have Japanese ancestry, my family was not personally effected by the WWII era Japanese internment camps since my mother immigrated here in the 1980’s. This graphic memoir was an eye opening and heartbreaking illustration of the hardships experienced in those camps. This is a very timely book that I think every American should read regardless of their race. Let’s not let history repeat itself.
Okubo was an artist who used her drawing skills to visually document her World War II incarceration experience. This shows the harsh living conditions Japanese American people had to endure because they looked like the enemy. The writing style is very spare and reminds me of how many Nisei recalled their "camp" stories.
Okubos book is a compelling combination of images and text that tells her story of incarceration. I was moved by her inclusion of herself in each image. She broke down the distinction between the viewer and the viewed. It’s also a powerful juxtaposition with official WRA photography to have this emic production of art.
These drawings by Miné Okubo are about her time in internment camps during WWII. It's not a graphic novel in the modern sense but it was an early graphic memoir and an important and shameful part of American history. It's largely non-linear and full of humor and emotion.
Miné Okubo’s 1946 work Citizen 13660 has the unique distinction of being both one of the early American graphic novels and being a powerful first-hand testimony to the Japanese imprisonments during World War II in the United States.
Indeed, from her perspective, most of those detained remained loyal to the United States, and were even asked to serve in the United States Army (after passing the prescribed loyalty tests.)For the historical value alone, Okubo’s work deserves to be read.
"Citizen 13660" is one person’s personal account of their internment experience, named Mine Okubo.
By 1981, when the Commission on Wartime Relocation and Interment of Civilians was established, this book had already been recognized as an important reference on Japanese Internment.Okubo not only testified before the commission, but also presented a copy of Citizen 13660 to them.Why I picked it up: I read "Imprisoned: The Betrayal of Japanese Americans During WWII" earlier this year, and this title was one of the works referenced.
Who I’d give it too: I’d give this to history buffs, those who like documentary art, and anyone interested in learning more about Japanese Internment.Happy Reading!1984 American Book Award
I'd pretty much given up on finding a copy of this one to borrow, when suddenly, the Interlibrary Loan came through again!
I just think it's funny that this book was published by the University of Washington press, yet they had to go all the way to Spokane County to find a copy to borrow.Anyways, the art and design on this book reminded me more of a kid's picture book than the more classically comic stylings of the others I've been reading.
I felt about Mine much the way I felt about Marjane in Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood - sympathetic, but disconnected emotionally.
After rushing home to Berkeley, Pearl Harbor forced her and a hundred and twenty thousand other Japanese-Americans into "protective custody"- barbed wired camps where men, women and children lived in former horse stalls and hastily built barracks in remote desert locations.
She matter-of-factly describes the humiliations, the frustrations and even the humor of what it felt like to be uprooted from normal life and forced into crowded camps guarded by armed soldiers and watch towers.
Okubo's work is a fascinating glimpse into what life becomes for an American citizen who is arrested because her face happens to look like that of the enemy.
Citizen 13660🍒🍒🍒🍒By Mine OkuboReprinted 1945/ 2018University of Washington PressFebruary 19, the day the Executive Order 9066, issued by FDR, has been named Remembrance Day by the Japanese Americans, to honor the memory of relatives interned to camps.
Executive Order 9066 ordered the mass evacuation from the West Coast and internment of all people of Japanese descent."In the history of the United States this was the first mass evacuation of its kind in which civilians were moved simply because of their race.
"To see what happens to people when reduced to one status and condition.", Okubo states.
In Citizen 13660, Mine Okubo documents her experience in Japanese internment camps.
Told objectively, she illustrates how horrid and dehumanizing the living conditions were for Japanese citizens imprisoned in these camps.
While her writing does not reflect how she personally felt about her experiences, the pictures tell a different story.
Okubo's account is an important piece of American history that shows what happens when fear and prejudice grip a society.
In the preface to the 1983 edition Okubo writes " I am often asked, why am I not bitter and could this happen again?
"Citizen 13660" is a short book written by artist Mine Okubo who spent 4 years in the relocation camps during WW2.
Definitely not a comprehensive look, nor an emotive piece, it still filled in some answers I personally had for this period in American history.
Any person of Japanese descent should read this if they want to see what our parents and grandparents went through, especially here on the West coast.
There are many books written about the relocation camps during the war, most telling a more complete story than "Citizen 13660", but this book does tell an amazing and sorrowful story in its own simple way.
This book details the time that author Mine Okubo spent in Japanese interment camps as a young woman.
She illustrates her time by including herself as a frame of reference and detailing daily life and special occasions during her time at two different camps.
Okubo's discussion of the life she witnessed and lived at these camps is certainly appropriate for a wide audience of readers.
Citizen 13660 is entertaining and informative, and provides a clear depiction of the life of a young woman in an interment camp.
I don't personally feel that I have the right cultural context to critique this book. The introduction provides some context which definitely colored my interpretation of the book differently from how I might have interpreted it if I had just read the book without that context. It is definitely an important work, with emotionally and historically powerful words and images. I just wish that I knew more about the choices that were made in this book and what the motivations for its publication and promotion were (as discussed in the introduction).
Ha, found this one via Nicole Georges Instagram stories, really surprised I hadn't heard about it before. An illustrated diary of Japanese internment. What a weird and quietly horrible and rather mundane experience it was. Like...it wasn't the Holocaust right? But it was still a pretty shitty thing to do to people! GEEZ. Okubo was great at being both dry and reportly while still deeply and detailed-ly personal about it. The experience, in many ways, speaks for itself. I'm glad she captured it, I hope more people will read it.
Graphic memoir about the internment of the author during WWII, first published in the 40s. An important representation of life for the internees because historical visual documentation from first person narrators remains rare. Okubo's story is told through one-page drawings with an accompanying caption, creating a "snapshot" feel that lends even more realism to the subject even though the drawing style is meticulously expressive and not photo-realistic. Each drawing can also be seen as a self-representation individually, as Okubo includes herself in each one.
This graphic documentation of the "protective custody" that many Japanese Americans had to submit to was done by a young woman (Mine Okubo) who was there. The differing ways individuals try to come to terms with their new "status" in a country they thought they belonged to is truly sad...a lesson we should never forget.
Another possible Common Book. I can't believe I hadn't ever read this account of being in the Japanese Internment camps. A little simplistic, and I couldn't get into the art, but interesting. Certainly a fast read, and with recent talk about possible Muslim internment, certainly something to talk about.
I read this for English. It was pretty cool because it was in graphic novel form. Although you definitely can't disregard the weight of the subject, the writing was pretty bland and overall not my favorite.

Citizen 13660 is an autobiographical account of the harsh conditions of Japanese internment during World War II.
It offers an interesting look into the terrible conditions that the Japanese people had to deal with, in the United States.
It shows a glimpse into the often-forgotten atrocities and provides a detailed look through the utilization of drawings.
For what it is worth, the book does an excellent job describing the hardships of the individuals and represents the emotions of the victims during World War II and shows how they had to improvise to survive.

