https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225396.Jacob_s_Room
Fragmentary impressions while reading Jacob’s Room.
Immediately, I made the decision to read Jacob’s Room, for I wanted more Woolfian impressions, and I brought it to the underground as well.
Meanwhile, there was a new quest, to order another copy of Jacob’s Room, and embark on other reading journeys to fill the gap in time.
It is not the same reading as it would have been if the first copy hadn’t stayed on a seat in the Underground.How to write a review of a book everyone knows, and loves, or hates, or doesn’t care about?
The inconsistency of a tenuous character speaks of the evanescence of humanity depicting death not as “the end” but as a renovation of each bygone moment, for past vanishes to give way to a newborn present, binding beginnings with endings in a perpetual succession of departed lives that will keep on shining eternally like the light of long extinguished stars.
A curious character study, Jacob's Room sketches the outlines of its titular character's short life, before ending abruptly without the slightest sense of closure.
The cold and detached novel was Woolf's first attempt at writing in the stream-of-consciousness mode, and it shows; the writer often seems more interested in experimenting with form than in crafting an emotionally resonant narrative.
Still, something about the novel's chaos works.
Woolf throws so much at her readers, without ever attempting to answer how it all might fit together.
The book's excessive ambiguity makes for a rather distinctive, if not entirely enjoyable, reading experience.
There was no particular action that stood out in my mind, just a series of scenes: interiors, landscapes, seascapes, all impressionistic yet very vivid at the same time, the characters themselves little more than elements in the landscape, similar to the large rock on the shore which the little boy Jacob mistakes for his mother in the early pages as he rambles among the rock pools collecting crabs, pebbles, the jawbone of a sheep.
The scenes that Woolf then goes on herself to paint, using a palette of exquisite words, are mostly fragments, unfinished, and many contain shadows.
The thread spreads wider to others with the city as the linking character.One thing is clear about Jacob’s Room; there is humour and parody here.
Smiling, she went into the kitchen.”It has often been pointed out that listen is an anagram of silent and in Jacobs Room much of the effect is based on the gaps, the spaces left by the narration.
There is a good deal about Greek myth floating around and Woolf invokes the traditions of the pre-Hellenic goddess culture (as Graves was later to do in his book on Greek myth) and the characters of Clara and Betty Flanders are very strong.
Jacob's Room is a life seen from the outside.
We can see his life as if in the mirror shards.
His inner world remains closed to us.
They see a whole-they see all sorts of things-they see themselves...Woolf as an impressionist painter catches moments and impressions, is lyrical and nostalgic.
It also could be considered as personal Woolf’s elegy for beloved brother Toby.The boundaries of knowing another man, sense of the evanescence of life, the transience of the moment.
All these remnants of his life and tangible evidences of his absence.
Is that all what remains after our lives ?
One must follow hints, not exactly what is said, nor yet entirely what is done."- Virginia Woolf, Jacob's RoomOne of Woolf's first modern/stream of concicious novels.
Woolf's two earlier novels (The Voyage Out & Night and Day) were more traditional.
This one is more like attempting to get a sense of the Parthenon, but only by looking at shadows cast by the sun and the moon, from different directions, night and day, at different times.
It also gives hints of later, fantastic Woolf novels like Mrs Dalloway and To the Lighthouse.
We see in this novel, Woolf's huge potential.
On the other hand, it's interesting to look back to the beginnings of Woolf's experimental writing after reading Mrs. Dalloway, To the Lighthouse and The Waves.
Whereas listening to the audiobook of The Waves reminded me of listening to a cantata or an oratorio, listening to this novel (beautifully narrated by Juliet Stevenson) was more like looking at a series of snapshots in an old family photgraph album.
After all, from the beginning of the novel, we are aware that come 1914, Jacob will be in his twenties and it's a fair bet that Woolf is a believer in nominative determinism.
It is definitely my favorite!What Woolf was trying to do, and which I think she marvelously succeeds with, is to capture how it feels to experience life.
For example, how does a person react to the opening of a window?
What one hears when you open a window, go out your door or walk in the night has to be captured accurately, 
One’s imagination cannot improve upon Stevenson’s performance.These are the books I have read by Virginia Woolf:Jacob's Room 4 starsMrs. Dalloway 4 starsTo the Lighthouse 3 starsNight and Day 3 starsThe Voyage Out 3 starsA Room of One's Own 1 starThe Waves 1 star
No doubt we should be, on the whole, much worse off than we are without our astonishing gift for illusion.I’m glad I don’t have to try and explain what Jacob’s Room is about because there’s no real plot; rather, it’s a wonderfully poetic and peculiar glimpse of small things happening, people thinking, waves crashing, life cascading by.
Life is happening to Jacob in remembered vignettes and half-memories, and we catch glimpses of Jacob but nothing is ever clear or absolute; everything is obstructed by the sea, the sky, the passing of time, and mostly, the contortion of other people’s perspective.
If your kids don't believe you, show them this movie.My pleasure in Jacob's Room is akin to my pleasure in archaeology, in immersing myself in stories or among artefacts from some era whose narrative or material culture I have enough experience of to be transported to in my mind.
That power in this novel, of evocation, which is extremely successful (and economical at less than 250 pages) because of Woolf's impressionistic style, is salient to me because of the Big Subject, the elephant in Jacob's Room, the war.
This, in my mind, is a brilliant idea, but left me feeling very disconnected from Jacob and I had no idea who he really was by the end, or even by the middle of the novel.
It left me craving a connection with someone in the novel which was impossible to find.
Woolf, as usual, describes scenes and even the characters with a beauty unsurpassed, but I would not pose it as one of my favorite of her novels.
If you want the true Woolfian novel in all its brilliance and beauty, read 'To the Lighthouse'.
Not as good as To the Lighthouse, which is rather like quibbling over the comparative value of gold and diamonds.
Much like Woolf's fictional concerns, both are, as legend has it, pretty much eternal.
Not for nothing did Woolf pen The Waves - it is as if she hopes that the waves will remove all human traces in gentle oblivion.
It was as if she stepped into the river in hope to become one with the flow of Time and life, to become only nature, to end the human pain of existence.
Published in 1922, this was Woolf's third novel, but the first of her Modernists style character narratives, a style combined with stream of consciousness that she would perfect by the time she wrote The Waves in 1931.
Thus our view of Jacob is never quite complete, only hazy and mysterious, like an apparition.
Even at the end of the novel we feel like we missed something, but we know enough to know we like Jacob, would like to have known him.
As always, Virginia Woolf's prose is beautiful.
A kind of jig-saw puzzle where the reader gradually pieces together the character of Jacob as seen through the eyes of others; diffident day-dreamer, asinine and aloof, sensitive, brilliant and beautiful, Virginia Woolf is attempting to convey the various personalities we represent to different people at different time-even the first-person accounts from the point of view of Jacob are shrouded in ambiguity.
And to set that on foot read incredibly dull essays upon Marlowe to your friends." "It is the governesses who start the Greek myth." I'll desist, though it's worth noting that Woolf is also smarter than everyone else.
This leads we academics to ask: Can we 'know' Jacob only from these external perspectives?
If you don't know the end, just go read the novel).Which makes it all the more horrific that that same civilization senselessly sends Jacob to die in a brutal war fought for no good reason.
I'd somehow gone my entire life without knowing how Jacob's Room ends, and let me tell you, I'm glad I didn't.
I find a page I love and read it over and over and over and over......and over.....not because I must, not because I don't understand per se, not because I need to clarify, but because it is like a skydiving thrill that I wish to replay.
I start reading a section and soon the head becomes light, gets dizzy, finds intense clarity, then reaches a numinous apex half-way down the page, can move no deeper with the thrill, but I keep reading anyway, practically petering out, knowing I can find no more gears until I unwind and start from the beginning again.
I must copy a page and place it next to an Olmec head.
Notes toward a review, maybe, later....Didn't rewire my brain as radically as Anne Carson, but I'll really have to think before saying anything about it.
I think that comes partly from reading 'Three Guineas' before this -- he represents so much she turns sharply against later.
But even her later opposition to patriarchy and the wars it wages is here -- that wonderfully chilling passage in the next-to-last chapter about the sixteen men, sunset colouring everything, darkness dropping like a knife.
Especially compared to all the other living people in the book - his mother, Clara, Fanny (I loved Fanny), even Florinda and Bonamy.
if the five stars are generous, it is only because of the fact that even when Woolf writes a messy and somewhat unformed book like this, she's still so much better than everyone else.
I like Woolf more and more as I get older; she is the perfect antidote to male sentences.
(I am not drunk now, writing this) You folks missed out.I mean, you really missed out, because I was going to review Jacob's Room.
Because I've since discovered that reading Virginia Woolf is a bit like being drunk on the proper number of gin & tonics and some straight gin.
But sometimes, sometimes, here and there throughout the book, reading about the life of Jacob Flanders, you (not just I, I hope) stumble across a choice passage that just feels gloriously like being a certain amount of tipsy.
If you ever woke up one morning and found yourself transformed into a brick or a pebble or something like that, there are paragraphs in this book that would remind you exactly what it is like to be alive.
And why, if this—and much more than this is true, why are we yet surprised in the window corner by a sudden vision that the young man in the chair is of all things in the world the most real, the most solid, the best known to us—why indeed?
-- this isn't even one of her best books.
Jacob’s Room was Virginia Woolf’s third novel and the first in her trademark “stream of consciousness” style.
It follows the life of Jacob from birth to adulthood, but only through the observation of others.
We never get to know Jacob’s point of view and he seems a slightly mysterious character, on the periphery of the reader’s vision.
Although this is clearly deliberate and illustrates the point that we never really know the whole of any other person, I found it difficult to really connect to the book in any meaningful way.
However, I did appreciate Woolf’s beautiful prose and especially enjoyed her descriptions of places and people.
In this novel, the reader sees Jacob's life as if from a distance, and when we think that we are finally getting closer to the main character, his activities and thoughts, his life evaporates and we eventually have to concede that we'll never know him.
'They see a whole - they see all sorts of things - they see themselves ...' well, this novel does make you see all sorts of things, but Jacob remains as elusive as he appears during the very first pages.
The connections aren't there: the connection to a character, the connective thread between two passages.
There's a theme to it all, a greater point about humanity, but I became exasperated with all the characters, asides, and hanging threads I was meant to tie up for myself.
Help a reader out!The premise is not an unfamiliar one: college, war, and a young man's coming of age.
As young men continue to document their transition to adulthood, Virginia's quiet response remains, obscurely tucked away in the far corners of secondhand bookstores."Each had his past shut in him like the leaves of a book known to him by heart; and his friends could only read the title."
The novel recreates Jacob's childhood, studenthood and entry into adulthood through his perspective and those, for the most part, of the women in his life. It's like a scrapbook of memories and sensations of fleeting major life events and the places they take place in. The prose is wonderful and very lethargic.
3.5/5 Fix your eyes upon the lay's skirt; the grey one will do—above the pink silk stockings. It changes; drapes her ankles—the nineties; then it amplifies—the seventies; now it's burnished red and stretched above a crinoline—the sixties; a tiny black foot wearing a white cotton stocking peeps out. Still sitting there? Yes—she's still on the pier. The silk now is sprigged with roses, but somehow one no longer sees so clearly. There's no pier beneath us. The heavy chariot may swing along the turn
Perhaps this is the reason why I remember 'Jacob's Room' lurking about my shelves but little of it in academic texts in one for or another.
I also find most romances incredibly boring as well as draining, hinging as they commonly do on little interaction and even less simultaneous character development (Bonamy came off as far more credible than Fanny or Clara or Florinda, but that's to be expected under the circumstances), so I'm glad Woolf stopped messing around with those later on.
I could get through the nearly ten or so Woolf works I have on hand within the next month or so if I so desired, but familiarity breeds contempt like nothing else when it comes to text.
The streets of London have their map; but our passions are uncharted.
What are you going to meet if you turn this corner?"Holborn straight ahead of you," says the policeman.
As frequent as street corners in Holborn are these chasms in the continuity of our ways.
Yet we keep straight on.
I have to admit that most of the time I was reading this, I was just kind of sighing impatiently and going, "WTF, another POV shift?
Get on with it, Virginia." And then the end happened, and all those irritating perspective changes turned out to be a skillfully arranged series of triggers leading, like falling dominoes, to a mostly off-the-page explosion.And it is righteous!The novel is really a series of vignettes, connected by several recurring characters.
It is one of the strangest character studies in literature, but the technique employed by Woolf--revealing the protagonist through the perceptions of others--does double duty in characterizing both Jacob and his era.
I love this book but I find it hard to understand why or at least how to put my liking into words.
As I listened I found myself lulled by the beauty of the way Woolf writes, letting the sound of the words wash over me so that from time to time I'd lose the plot, to the extent there is a plot in this book.
After a while I stopped fighting and just let the waves crash around me and determined to write this off as a first reading of "Jacob".
Has anyone else had a similar experience with Woolf?
