https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311189.Cousin_Kate
Her devoted and loving nanny, Sarah Nidd, secretly writes a letter to Kate's one relative that seems likely to be of help: Kate's aunt, Lady Minerva Broome.
strange.At first all seems reasonably good: Sir Timothy is kind although distant, Torquil seems to enjoy Kate's company, and Lady Broome is overwhelmingly generous with new clothing and presents for Kate.
But odd incidents keep occurring at Staplewood, Torquil's erratic behavior is becoming more of a problem, and Minerva Broome's generosity to Kate starts to feel suffocating ...
3.5★ The end of the 60s & beginning of the 70s had quite a craze for Gothic fiction. Daphne Du Maurier's   had cemented it's place as a modern classic & the works of the prolific Victoria Holt were widely read. Some established authors wanted to add their own twists to this fad. Agatha Christie tried her hand at a Modern Gothic with   I reread this last year & it remains one of my favourites from Christie's later works. Unfortunately GH's attempt at a Regency Gothic wasn't quite so s
had cemented it's place as a modern classic & the works of the prolific Victoria Holt were widely read.
Sarah is quite correct - but what is Lady Minerva's motive?
I worked on that by picturing him looking like Colin Firth, circa P&P.
Mind you, picturing Firth as Darcy fixes just about everything for me!(view spoiler)[I like my heroes heroic - & Phillip wasn't.
Phillip couldn't even persuade Kate to remove herself from a place of obvious danger!
(hide spoiler)]Add to this a truly bizarre, indeed callous ending & this Heyer is never going to be a five★ read for me.
The romance was really a side issue in this book, with none of the feeling that Georgette Heyer has imbued in her other Regency Romances. The love story developed way too quickly and I thought Philip and Kate rather insipid.However, apart from the romance, this was a good read, and I have to say that I loved old Mr Nid. His conversations were priceless!
I do believe I am in shock. What a morbid, Ghastly, Horrid ending. I rather wish I hadn't finished it at night.  How on earth  did it end on a happy note? I really have to think about this review.I've thought about it I found it almost lyrical, I could see the beautiful still water that haunted Torquil, I felt his anguish over his dreams. His lingering worry that someone didn't have his best interests at heart. Poor Torquil.Minerva was so like Aunt Em from Death in Kenya. They both did different
I really have to think about this review.I've thought about it I found it almost lyrical, I could see the beautiful still water that haunted Torquil, I felt his anguish over his dreams.
Poor Torquil.Minerva was so like Aunt Em from Death in Kenya.
I can see how the mental illness and the way it was handled pulls people in two different directions.
Though it isn't the worlds best Gothic, see Victoria Holt for those, it is a good character study.
And then there is a murder at the end.
The one where penniless, orphaned Kate is taken in by an aunt she's never met, and begins to discover strange things happening in the manor.
By the time Kate finds out she could be in real danger, she's already got an ally who's more powerful than any of the forces that threaten her.
And in a romance context I accept women agreeing to marry men they've only known for a week, but in a suspense context -- in a book that keeps whispering, people are not what they appear; people who seem to be kind are dangerous -- it seemed like a crazy thing to do.
About a three and a half star book rounded down because Georgette Heyer herself sets such a high bar. Gothic is not my favorite genre and the shocking ending cast quite a pall over the romance. Still, I enjoyed Kate as a spunky, sensible heroine, as well as Kate's loyal and wise old nurse Sarah and Sarah's redoubtable father, Mr Nidd (who provided much-needed comic relief).
Lady Broome cannot win this game.3 - Society decrees that women shall not inherit, and good wives shall provide husbands with male heir.
Society claims Lady Broome is evil because she loves husband's family home ...
Lady Broome cannot win this game.5 - Lady Broome tries to do the right thing by her son, by society and by her husband's family line, concepts created by men and society and in which she had no hand and no power to develop or change anything.
Lady Broome thinks another woman's life is dispensable because male heir is more important, in keeping with society's views.
But a contemporary reader can still get the idea; Jane Eyre is (sort of) a Gothic romance, including classic features like the confined mad wife and the dread conflagration, and Northanger Abbey is a pastiche of the more outrageous of these books.At any rate, to be expecting light banter and instead get mystery and a wee spice of adventure is quite a surprise.
All this will either work for you, or it won't, and I think enjoyment of the book may hinge on what exactly you're looking for in it.A note on mental illness: (view spoiler)[Heyer actually does a remarkable job of portraying Torquil's madness both in terms of how his era saw it and in better than modern terms ("modern" being Heyer's own era).
(hide spoiler)]I'm never going to love this book, because the ending is so weak: (view spoiler)[Torquil kills his mother, then himself, and it all happens off-screen.
Matrimonial schemes and concealed madness, family secrets and inexplicably disappearing letters make for a creepy tale of sorrow and deception, and the love story of Kate and Philip seems out of place in the spooky old house.
Always in the background, subdued by the misfortunes of the house other occupants, this love story is undeveloped and sudden.
One moment, it springs up fully formed and it feels like an afterthought, thrown in by the author to lighten the atmosphere.The antagonist Minerva, on the other hand, is meticulously developed: a ruthless woman driven by her obsession, she is an evil force propelling the plot.
Let us begin with those (there are mild spoilers coming, so be warned):First, this was supposed to be Heyer's version of a "gothic romance," but, yeah, there was absolutely NO SUSPENSE whatsoever.
I can forgive this to some degree, because it is obviously just a plot point, and a lot of gothics have "mad" people in them which also bear no resemblance to actual mental illness, but honestly, it feels like Heyer didn't even do the most rudimentary research, which given how carefully she researches the customs and shibboleths of the regency era seems like a pretty massive oversight here.
But the romance was very abrupt -- to the point where the heroine's suspicion that the hero was asking her to be his mistress rather than his wife seemed completely reasonable to me, and the story didn't seem very cohesive.
I don't know how to explain this exactly, but below is my impression of a few pivotal scenes.(view spoiler)[Torquil: Hahaha, pretty cousin, I'm going to strangle you!
Must kill it with the shotgun I stole from a locked room!Kate: Torquil, you had no reason to shoot that poor dog!
You should go home now and take a nap.Kate: Well, I know he's repeatedly threatened to kill me.
It’s rather amazing how brilliantly she’s shown narcissicism without calling it that, but how she stumbles with the “mad” character (except for the exacerbation if symptoms at puberty) because of bad science of the time.You do spend the bulk of the book expecting this to be a Northanger Abbey type series of romanticized misunderstandings (particularly on Philip’s part) , and I can’t decide if that’s a flaw or not.
I think having our H & h romance concluded in the middle of the book is a mistake, and I’m not sure Heyer wouldn’t have done better to stick with romantic comedy here.
She couldn't resist reverting to her regular silly tone at the end, despite the series of tragedies that complete the story, and it makes the whole book messy.
I've given this a B for narration and a B- for content at AudioGals.If you pick up Cousin Kate expecting to listen to one of Georgette Heyer’s trademark romantic comedies of manners, then I’m afraid you might be a little disappointed, as this book is somewhat of a departure from her usual vein.Cousin Kate is more of a gothic mystery than a romance (although there is one), in which the orphaned Kate Malvern is taken in by her aunt, only to discover that there is perhaps more to that lady’s motives than simple generosity.Kate is twenty-four, and at the beginning of the story has just returned to London following her dismissal from a post as governess because one of the young men in the household couldn’t keep his hands to himself.
The heroine is no shrinking violet!This book is Georgette Heyer's attempt at a gothic story.
This book, like her first novel "The Black Moth" I don't recco to people who are newbies to Georgette Heyer.I really liked the heroine.
She was like able, honorable, independent and plucky.There were some endearing minor characters from the "lower orders"--Kate's now married former nurse Mrs. Sarah Nidd and father in law Mr Nidd.
I would have liked to see more development of Kate and Philip's feelings--a romance was lacking.
Suddenly out of nowhere, they were betrothed.Again, to reiterate, newbies should stay away from this, it's not an example of what the author does best
Kate Malvern goes to live with an estranged Aunt, only to discover that things are not what they seem and then her romance stumbles into Gothic territory.
However, Cousin Kate was a bit too on-the-nose for me to read it as anything more than what it was: a pretty disappointing attempt at Gothic horror/romance.
And then the book seems to go a step further just to drive home the fact that everything is fine now instead of allowing the tragedies and horrors to linger.
4. I don't feel like I'm qualified to say anything about the handling of mental illness in this book, although I did side-eye the bit about the full moon.
Urged on by her cantankerous, but kindly, father-in-law, Sarah writes to Kate's estranged aunt, Lady Broome.
Kate's Aunt Minerva sweeps in and whisks Kate off to Staplewood for the summer.
Then there's her aunt's invalid husband, Sir Timothy, who rarely ventures out of his rooms in an entirely separate wing in the house.
Finally, there's Torquin's cousin and perceived enemy, Philip Broome who at first dislikes Kate and then becomes a trusted ally and friend as Kate realizes that all is not well at Staplewood.
Heyer departs from her usual witty comedies to weave together a tale of ambition, wills, power and mental instability.
But going from effervescent, comedy of manner romances to the Gothic may have been too much of a stretch for Heyer.I don't really like being scared, but I'll put up with it for a good mystery and great writing.
Kate is nice enough but seriously not all that bright (exhibit A: dead rabbit, exhibit B: everything), Phillip is a serviceable hero and their love is fine, albeit a little lukewarm.
(hide spoiler)]If you need your depictions of mental health to be convincing and well researched, then this is not the book for you.
But I'll settle for a more interesting plot.
If Wuthering Heights and Rebecca were to have a baby, Cousin Kate would be the product of their labors.
It held mysterious characters with unclear motives like Mrs. Danvers and the strange, conniving plot of Wuthering Heights.Cousin Kate was our Rebecca,innocent and financially at the end of her rope although rather more like Belle in Beauty and the Beast when it came to wit and brains.Torquill was Linton Heathcliff, a sickly boy but was more than meets the eye and constantly trying to rebel.
I feel certain that Cousin Kate will not be my last Georgette Heyer novel.
I liked this book a lot.
I'ts totally different from her other books and it makes me wonder why she took such a different pathway.
The Nidds were my favourite characters.
Especially Mr. Nidd.
I shudder to think of the way people with these illnesses were treated back then.
Torquil was a thoroughly unlikeable young man, yet the way he was written made you sympathise with him at times.
If you haven't read any Heyer before and this is your first, don't judge her on it.
As I said, it's a totally different novel from her others and they are all well worth reading.
"Oooh," I thought, "I wonder how a Gothic disguised as a Regency will work?" The answer: not very well.There was some good creeping dread early on, but the pacing was awkward and the reader is left facepalming at the fact that it's pretty obvious quite quickly what's going on, but the heroine refuses to put it all together.
She's meant to be brave, but cheerfully waltzing through encounters with your creepy cousin who's threatened to strangle you, tends to mutilate animals and asserts that he wants to marry you or he'll do something dire...
The romantic leads are fine, but not memorable enough to make up for the fact that everyone else is deeply unpleasant, even sympathetic characters.
The gothic-reeking beginning of the book with Kate being smothered at Staplewood in a lurid environment full of hidden secrets, screams at night, weird characters took me by surprise but did not manage to engage me.
He was as boring and colorless as the poor Cousin Kate.
I rather enjoyed Philip's proposal to Kate and the way she completely misunderstood his intentions.However the mystery behind Torquil's condition and his mother's mastering of him took over the romance and was solved in a much more gory way than what I expected.Certainly not one book I'll read again hoping for a light-hearted and fun entertainment!

2,5 stars? This book was a weird mix, between a normal Heyer book and a thriller, though a predictable one. I was pretty bored by everyone and it took me forever to make myself finish it. The romance was pretty insipid and the mystery was obvious. I enjoyed the happy ending but we didn't need 300 pages to get there. First disappointment by Heyer but it had to happen sooner or later! ;p
**3.5 Stars**Read for @simondavidthomas’s #1968Club - October 2017
GH does a gothic turn. Not a favorite but worth a look. It’s interesting to see a familiar author try on a new hat or two.
This novel is a bit of a stretch for Heyer: her first (and, I think, last) attempt at the kind of Gothic tale so popular from the 1940s through the 1960s.
Sir Philip Broome does his best to urge Kate to abandon her aunt before it's too late, but Kate's scruples won't permit it, even as she becomes more attracted to Philip by the day.I liked the book better than many reviewers, not least because I enjoy seeing writers push themselves, and this is definitely a departure for Heyer.
Just think of it as a romance with an intermittent darker side, and you won't mind it at all.
This is my first time reading this novel, and as always it is great fun to explore one of my favorite author's novels with the GR Heyer Fans group read.
Such an articulate, funny, insightful and smart group adds so much to my reading enjoyment, and this is no exception.
The only thing keeping it from being 4 stars for me was the fact that I'm simply not a fan of the gothic genre, and I wouldn't recommend it to people reading Heyer for the first time - but still an enjoyable, quick read with plenty of Heyer's sparkling wit and wonderful characters (some creepier than others, but well done!)
It is probably the most Gothic of Heyer's novels though it has more humour and a much more sensible heroine than most of the books in that genre.
There is no one she can talk to as they rarely have guests and Cousin Philip seems to have taken her in instant dislike so he isn't likely to be of help.Can Kate rescue herself from a situation which suddenly seems worse than being a governess?
If you like novels with a Gothic flavour then you will probably enjoy it.
Kate is a young girl in her mid-twenties.
So she has no home, no job, and nothing for a dowry.She has traveled to her childhood nurse, Sarah's home until she can find another placement.
She doesn't feel like she can stay with Sarah as she has her own husband and family to care for - so when her Aunt Minerva shows up (her deceased father's estranged half-sister) - Kate views her as her salvation.Aunt Minerva, however, is not taking Kate home to Staplewood out of the goodness of her heart.
which I didn't really care for at all.
