https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49702.Hard_Laughter
There are three reasons why I continued: 1) I want to like Anne Lamott's fiction because I so loved Bird by Bird, 2) the theme of the book -- dealing with a father's failing health -- was a personal connection, and 3) I hoped to find an answer to why the author would choose to give her 23-year old protagonist a best friend who was only 10 years old.
In the end, I liked moment of Anne Lamott's fiction.
I loved the way the novel ended, incomplete and hopeful.
But I still hated, truly hated, that the character Megan was only ten years old but sounded like she was thirty.
Give me anything by Anne Lamott and I will read it.
I think many nonfiction books should be pamphlets.This novel should have been a short story. A very, very short story.Yes, it is, at times, funny and sweet but good god, make something happen. <- What I was thinking, during most of the book.Like many, I'm sure, I picked up Hard Laughter because I love Lamott's take on Shitty First Drafts; I thought I ought to read some of her fiction so as to see what she was talking about in Bird by Bird.So now I have, and won't make that mistake again!
When I interviewed Anne Lamott in 1999, she said "Hard Laughter" was her worst book.
I have not read all of her books, but I've read "Bird by Bird," which I found to be a wonderful guide to good writing; "Tender Mercies," and "Operating Instructions." Unlike these non-fiction books, "Hard Laughter" is billed as a novel, yet anyone familiar with Lamott's life knows much of the book is autobiographical.
But of the books I have read, "Hard Laughter" \ is by far my least favorite.
Don't let this be your first Lamott book to read.
I was expecting this book to cover the whole bell curve of her father's illness, from diagnosis of brain tumor to passing, concentrating heavily on things like days visiting him in hospital, ethical quandaries, and a daughter's hagiography of her father.Instead it was more like Some Several Months In The Life Of The Author, During Which Her Father Begins Treatment For A Possibly Malignant Tumor.
It was much, much more about the protagonist (the author), her thoughts and life.
The main thing I would say about this book is that I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
With pretty much any book, I can think of one or two specific people who I think would like it, get something out of it, what have you.
It's partially Real Life but in a very fake-feeling way.
It feels almost like it should have been two separate books that the author decided to mush up into one.
The funniest thing is the reason I bought it in the first place is that it was a "staff recommendation" book at my local bookstore.
I was trying to read the Anne Lamott books in order, but I just got this 1979 one, after I had started my reading, so it's out of order. So I already know a lot of the facts of the (apparently, most autobiographical) story from reading the other books. Still, there's lots in the book besides the facts. I'm enjoying getting to know this Anne Lamott. It's like finally getting to meet a friend of friends--I've heard so much about her.
This is a must-read for anyone whose family has survived tragedy and loss with love and dark humor. I love this family because it reminds me of my own. Anne's struggle to cope with her father's terminal illness hit very, very close to home. I love this book.
I love Lamott's voice. the dialogue in this book is some of her best writing. The characters are perfectly drawn. Worth reading!
This is Anne Lamott’s first novel.
It is also the first Anne Lamott novel I read.
She refers to a ten-year-old as her friend, very earnestly if adorably, as if relying on a ten-year-old for emotional succor, and subjecting the child to one’s romantic woes, is OK and charmingly eccentric, not messed up.So, basically, it’s a novel that isn’t as good as the memoirs that follow but which tracks the themes of the later memoirs.However, Lamott’s voice is great, and there is a vividness to her descriptions, and a pleasing (if too cute) candor to her discussion of her home, romantic life, and emotional stability.
I will try another Lamott novel, methinks.
Anne Lamott is someone you have to read to understand.
That seems obvious, but my thought was that she was some Christian author in the vain of Don Miller, Rob Bell.
I thought this because I have read both Miller and Bells books and they have references to Lamott and how much they enjoy her work.
Lamott writes with humor and strange clairty.
Hard Laughter is not a overly happy book and I found it a little weird my wife recommened for me to read it on our honeymoon but none the less I loved it.
This one will stick with me.
It was a story of a family and how they handled the father's brain tumor.
And it wasn't necessarily different or unique than how the rest of us might handle it in real life.
And Lamott's characters are really real, and even if you are different than the basic outlines of the characters, she writes them in such a way that you can see pieces of yourself and of those people in your own inner circle inside them.
The way she captures those crazy thoughts is spot-on and great to read.
I think this is not a great book.....but it's a funny, serious telling of a short period of life.
Mostly Anne Lamotts life, probably.
And I was always savoring the time that I spent reading her story and salivating for the time when I could get back to it and hear what happened next.
I began to wish I lived around the corner from Anne Lamott.
I can't really say why I liked this book.
I'll be reading more of Lamott.
Another plotless wonder. LOVED it. Would probably have given it five stars had my attention not wandered a few times. Some conversations go on forever and you sort of lose touch with the point. But otherwise, VERY funny. I 'laughed hard' a number of times. So much so that I slipped into one of those silent fits where tears start streaming your face. Being Lamott's debut, I can't wait to start reading more of her more recent works!
I won't say it was awful...there were times when it was funny and heart breaking...but overall the book didn't grab me...and it was a struggle to read it. I did like the chapters being one thought about something...the story wasn't totally continuous...but I guess I will have to try again when I am in the mood for something like this...
Good writing...crazy time era!
This was bad.
Like a twelve page short story instead of a 290 page novel.
I enjoyed the scenes with Wallace (aside from him and Jen skinny dipping together in a hot spring?!?) and the camaraderie between the siblings as they lean on each other during such an unstable time, but not much else.
Lamott describes the main character, Jen (a writer), struggling to write during certain scenes, and it made me think that maybe this part was autobiographical, perhaps even describing this very novel.
It got slightly better at the very end, but I still didn't enjoy the story.
And, along the way, I've learned a couple of new words, like "scintillant" and "hebephrenia," which might give you pause about putting this on your reading list.
Ben and I would bend down to put our fingers in the sea anemones or to watch a sea snail crawl from behind a magenta algae into a new shell, and one or both of us would slide into the ankle-deep water, and then complain all the way home.----??
I really liked this book.
It wasn't a "can't put it down until it's finished" book, but it definitely kept me interested.
I definitely felt the need to have closure with these characters and had to request this book again, which I ended up finishing in one sitting.
I really enjoyed Anne Lamott's characters and how real they felt to me.
I actually believed that if I lived in California during that time period, I could easily run into any of those characters.
I even feel like I know some people similar to those characters in my present day life.
I heard about Anne Lamott through a random quote of hers that really touched me.
I must read more from this Wise One!That led me to Hard Laughter.The story is about a family that deals with the father's diagnosis of a brain tumor.
It could go all dreary and maudlin based on that topic, but is obviously NOT Lamott's writing style.She takes us through LIFE as the family processes this hand of cards they are dealt.
They do it with hard laughter...
clever puns, goofy dialogue with one another, good music and love for one another.It's a story about a family and how "Life Works"!!
I'm a dedicated Anne Lamott enthusiast but this book was not a good read for me. As hard as I tried I could only make it half way before I had to quit. Three stars is generous, but maybe you'll have a better experience with it...
I saw an interview with Anne Lamott and thought she was wonderful.
She's quirky and funny which spurred me to read one of her books.
This book is, like her, quirky and funny, It is filled with oddball characters, some of them related and all of them might as well be since they are all so intimately close.
Anne Lamott seems to have a knack for portraying love and laughter even when the subject is heartbreaking.
This was the author's first novel and I am looking forward to reading more of her works.
It was more of a leisurely read than a page turner.
I was so happy to hear about Anne Lamott's 1st book that I had somehow overlooked.
I was summer deep into the pages and would have sailed though this wonderful story, but had to take breaks to let some of the pages sit with me for a while, and then real life breaks to enjoy family and friends.
But I have just finished and almost want to start over just to enjoy it again.
Her characters just come right off the page.
No one can write this story like Anne Lamott!
I was plesantly surprised by this book. you could feel the struggle the main character Jen is going through professionally and personally. Her father who is stricken with an illness and how their family ( a close one ) deals with it. The struggles the main character faces with intimacy/relationship issues. Brilliant story telling that leaves the reader really feeling like by the end of the book they have lived the story themselves. That to me is the test of a truly remarkable story teller. This was Anne Lamott's first novel. I look forward to reading addition novels of hers.
Part of me wanted to give this book more stars because her characters ring true and I relate to their neuroses. And you can't help but like the family she describes. But the book just didn't hold together. I thought it was like short stories strung together in some ways -- characters who seemed important but faded again from the scene almost immediately. ANd there were times when I thought the narrator character seemed self-absorbed and whiny. So... I like Lamott & think she's funny and real, but I wasn't a huge fan of this one.
I was delighted to rediscover this incredible book by Anne Lamott. HARD LAUGHTER tells the story of 23-year-old writer Jennifer whose father Wallace is diagnosed with a brain tumor. Jennifer and her brothers - along with friends and family - experience a roller coaster of emotions that ultimately draw this quirky family ever closer together. With a great eye for detail and a deft sense of humor, Lamott brings every character, including the town they live in, to life, making the reader care about them all.
Like her memoir, this is basically a series of reflections on different themes drawn from a portion of her life, in this case, her father's treatment for a brain tumor. She reflects provocatively on her appreciation for her family, her friends, & the landscape that surrounds her. She is everything that normally annoys me--self-absorbed, self-pitying, casual about drugs, alcohol, & sex--but she's also so self-aware & self-deprecating & charming with such grace that I forgive her and appreciate her.
If there was ever a book that encapsulated my view of life at this moment, this would be it.
Oscillating between "so funny it's sad" and "so sad it's funny," full of not-quite resolved bitterness and weird situations, having moments of ridiculity that make the reader soar and think about just how absurd life can be, and how the only way to get through it is laugh about it and get through it with those you love.
Some work on what love is too.
It's tough and sober and delusional.
It is the train rides on the way to hard days.
I am a great fan of Anne Lamott's amazing writing skill and heartfelt storytelling. This one is a little on the lackluster side.Wallace has to have brain surgery and his three children rally round to cope together. They are a slightly dysfunctional in the way most families are, but they really love each other and have learned to live in relative peace.I like her rabbit trail writing meandering that eventually lands in poignant pithiness, but Hard Laughter is a little too meandering without arriving at Lamott's renowned depth.
I wanted to like this book more than I did.
Maybe it was the vast difference in their outlook and lifestyle relative to what I am used to but I know there have been many books where I could never imagine being the character in the book but I liked them anyway.
I didn't really like Jennifer - I didn't understand her relationship with Megan or Kathleen.
I think I liked Randy the best - and of course Wallace - but neither enough for me to be able to strongly recommend this book to anyone.
