https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/716780.The_Green_Years
This is just the kind of story I like, true characterization (warts and all), a plot packed with everyday drama, tragedy mixed with triumph at the very last gasp, a novel some might call melodramatic and soap-opera-ish but whatever, it's a great read and I dare you to not get choked up at least twice.A young orphan boy is sent to live with his grandparents, aunts, uncles, and great-grandparents in Scotland, where the head of the house, his pecuniary grandfather, rules the roost with austere frugality.
And more tragedy.*sigh*Some interesting characters here, including a red nosed eccentric grandfather with an eye for the ladies and a taste for strong drink, a retired barrel monkey with double pneumonia.

The supurb, honest characterization of his various family members coupled with Cronin's eye for detail, skill in plot construction, and depth of focus make this an excellent read.
This book, like his others I have read, looks squarely at life and death, at joy and anguish.
It is both humorous and serious as it follows a young orphan from his entrance into a new extended family through his eighteenth year.
Since I am a reader who enjoys learning new words, likes figurative language and description, loves strong characterization, and prefers the single point of view, this book is perfect for my taste.
I stayed up late one night and watched an old 1937 movie made from this book.
I enjoyed it very much and decided to read the book.
Generally, I like books better than movies, and I have to say that reading the book after watching the movie took some of the fun out of the book, but I loved the characters in this book.
The main character has a series of life altering set-backs and the story shows how he struggled with them.
I really liked this book which exemplifies the spirit of man.
This author is a gem who receives little attention nowadays. The Green Years was recommended by a co-worker. Originally published in the 1930s, it is a charming story of a young boy growing up with his grandparents in Scotland before WWI. AJ Cronin has a real literary talent, making the reader feel as though the trials and tribulations of Robert Shannon, the main character, are the reader's own. The only disappointment was the end - which to me, seemed a little anti-climatic, although I can't put my finger on why.
I read this. 53 years ago. I love this lonely story. I was 12 then and I will read again.
Буквально недавно в фейсбуке (у Галины Юзефович?) было обсуждение того, кто над какой книгой когда-либо плакал. Я читала комментарии, огорчённо думая о том, что у меня такой книги нет. И вот когда сегодня я утирала слёзы, дочитывая "Юные годы", то была счастлива вдвойне. И от того, что у полюбившегося мне героя все хорошо, и от осознания того, что у меня теперь тоже есть Та Самая книга!
Grandpa enjoys his pints too much, if you know what I mean and likes to engage with pretty young women.
He can be quite the scoundrel but he has a good heart and genuinely cares for young Robbie.
Robbie grows up in this household with various family members and they are all interesting characters indeed.
After my father died, I learned that this was his favorite author, The Citadel being his favorite book.
So I have slowly been reading all of AJ Cronin's books and thoroughly enjoying reading each and every one of them!
A Tale of a Boy Becoming a ManA young lad in the early 20th century growing up in a small Scottish town surrounded by hills and the wonder of nature, enjoys his young life discovering new things enjoying new experiences.
A Roman Catholic he also has to deal with the small town prejudices of the majority Protestant population.
Perhaps but intricately and cleverly woven into an intriguing and moving tale of science, religion, education and love where to succeed means the stars, to fail unthinkable.
I read this book long ago, read it again today. paragraphs like this in the book make me think and enjoy the book even more.'Life is no straight and easy corridor along which we travel free and unhampered, but a maze of passages, through which we must seek our way, lost and confused, now and again checked in a blind alley.But always, if we have faith, a door will open for us, not perhaps one that we ourselves would ever have thought of, but one that will ultimately prove good for us”
For a book as old as this one, this is still a very enjoyable read. I have always liked reading about the Past & how different things were, so this was just up my alley! Good story with colorful characters & backround in a rural Scottish setting!!
it's a fucking depressing one
Girovagando tra gli scaffali della biblioteca a volte si possono scoprire dei libri dimenticati.È il caso di questo libro che giaceva un po’ abbandonato, con la copertina un po' rotta e che da un po’ di tempo mi faceva l’occhiolino (la bibliotecaria mi ha detto che non veniva preso in prestito da un bel po’ di tempo).Grazie a questo libro ho scoperto un autore (per me semi-sconosciuto) e un romanzo bellissimo.Esso narra la storia di Robert Shannon, che, dopo essere rimasto orfano di entrambi i genitori, è costretto a trasferirsi dalla natìa Dublino alla Scozia, nel piccolo paese di Levenford, presso la casa dei nonni materni .Nel paese è deriso per il suo nome, per gli abiti che indossa, per la sua religione cattolica.
As Roger grows older, his problems get more complex which is something I really loved about this book.
You watch as he changes from the bright, curious boy to the wary, cynical man as life beats him down.I also loved how this book didn't just have the story of a boy that has the most perfect life because that just isn't real.
No one else liked him and he wasn't an attractive man or character, but he was very important to the development of Roger's personality.


The Shannon Saga.Readers of A J Cronin's books who have read about Robert Shannon when he was a Doctor but missed the Green Years will enjoy this tale about his childhood. Published in 1960 one feels it could have been written 50 years earlier. A vivid picture of Edwardian Britain.I
Just finished this book. I loved it. Somehow reminded me of the T.V. series "The Wonder Years". I could hear the voice of the narrator of the wonder years as I read this book. The book is about an orphan boy of 11 who goes to live with the eclectic family of his grandparents in the early 20 century, in Scotland. He's from Ireland so the plot thickens. Delightful!
Visit the young and adolescent years of a boy's life who grows up to be a heroic medical researcher. Said to be one of the best-loved stories written by Cronin this is an excellent read that is heart warming and stirring. I enjoyed it.
Very nice book. I never heard of this author before, but I would now like to read more of their books. Set in the early 1900's in Scotland, it tells of the simple life of a young boy and his family. A very good read.
This was the first A.J Cronin Book I've read (in french) and it was an amazing book about the struggle of a young boy who liked science but raised christian, and the hard time he had to keep faith in his beliefs and go forward with science. the characters and the story are present and enjoyable.
I dont know why but i simply love reading about the kids of the 20th century!! robert is a very good guy- i seem to be falling in love...thanks cronin for such an emotional book.my sis has a lesson of a.j in her literature class.cant wait to read his other books...tee hee!!
One of the first adult books I ever read. I loved it.
The book is beautifully written but moves slowly, and therefore could not hold my attention to the end.
read this 14 years ago and all I wrote was that I liked it.
I read Cronin when I was a teenager and I loved it. For me it is as good as Balzac or Zola. Great drama
The conflict between Catholics & Presbyterians in Ireland
This book takes you in from the start. It is a wonderfully descriptive story. So well written!
This is my favorite book because it is real and heartwarming at the same time. An excellent, forgotten treasure!
Este libro lo lei en el colegio . Realmente es muy emocionante. Lamentablemente hasta el día de hoy no lo he podido encontrar para tenerlo.
