https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1170281.Katie_John
The trait serves her well when Sue comes to visit and she finds Katie John on the trail of blood.
For example, there's the time when the two girls search for the family cat who had someone disappeared from a locked room.
Fortunately, the adults know she meant well and so eventually all gets worked out.In an entirely different situation, Katie John has her friend’s best interests at heart, but not so much that of her friend’s sister.
Now I need to find the other books in the series (I have some of them, but am missing one).I read Katie John for the first time back when I was probably about her age.
Who would think that now, so many years later, I'd be longing for that simpler time of the 1970s so our perspective tends to really change as we get older.Katie John is a girl who moves to a new neighborhood in a new state far away from California where she's grown up.
I loved visiting Katie John's old house.
I loved her adventures and the good times she has.
Re-read. I love this book. Katie John c'est moi! Goofy, ham-handed, good-natured and well-meaning, she blunders her way through her 10th year in this sweetly nostalgic story. The supporting characters are a joy, too.
If you like Anne Shirley, Jo March, Ramona Quimby, Emily Bartlett and the many others who have paraded past us in books for years -- you will love Katie John Tucker.
This is the first book in a (too short!) series of four titles wherein Katie explores life, makes friends, and has wonderful adventures in Great-Aunt Emily's big old house.
In Calhoun's usual cheerful fashion Katie's summer unfolds beautifully, meeting best friend Sue and running lemonade stands, exploring the house and getting into trouble, until of course school begins and she doesn't want to ever leave.
I still love to visit with Katie John from time to time, and can't wait for my daughter to meet her.
B says she liked it.I enjoyed the way the book was written - it made for a good read aloud. I thought some of the adventures were very relevant and interesting for B (age 9) and a few were pushing the envelope a bit (or were just less relevant to her life) but nothing innappropriate. We liked the adventures that came from the big old house itself esp. the dumb waiter.
This was a childhood favorite that my daughter gave me for Christmas. How fun to go back in time and remember how I loved reading and the adventures I would go on. This book always made me want to live in the Midwest. After living here for 14 years I am still looking for the Midwest of that book.
Rather boring at times and not the most original, but I loved the Katie John series when I was a kid and Katie is an easy character for children to relate to if they've ever had to travel or move away to a place they were unsure of.
Too neat of a package to be believable but kind of fun nonetheless. The highly fictitious nature of this book bears resemblance to an episode of Leave it to Beaver. But, come on, sometimes it's a relief to pretend everything does work out for the best in 23 minutes or 144 pages.
The KATIE JOHN books were some of my favorites as a child, and my son just bought me a set of “the old ones” for Christmas.
She is a believable and likable protagonist, worthy of one of my favorite words:irrepressible,a quality that encouraged me to be more than the socially proscribed roles I saw growing up.In this first book, Katie John and her parents move from California to a small town in “the backwoods of Missouri.” Although she’s not happy about the move, Katie John makes a good friend and explores the possibly haunted house her family has inherited from a great-aunt.
This is the first in a wonderful series about a 10-year-old adventurous tomboy named Katie John Tucker who moves from California to Missouri with her parents in order to sell her deceased Great-Aunt Emily's estate.
The book starts with a bang (the first chapter is titled "The Ghost's Voice"--wow, my heart was pounding hard, really got my attention there as a nine-year-old).
Katie John is a character I grew up with, and the books about her are filled with fun, adventures, and funny things that happen, while teaching good vurtues.
This was one of the books Mrs. Scott, my second grade teacher read to the class after lunch.
At the time I admired Katie John.
She had spunk.When I read the book recently, however, I discovered Katie John wasn't as spunky as I'd remembered.
But I still had a difficult time believing people actually spoke to one another in such a stiff and white bread sort of way.
All in all, I was disappointed that the Katie John in the book wasn't the Katie John I remembered.

I had to order this book, a childhood favorite of mine, 2nd hand, because I didn't see any currently for sale.
I remembered the adventure of the dumb waiter all these years later, and wanted to be able to give my kids a clean book to read - without gore or grown-up issues.
I read it to my 1st grader, 4th grader, and 7th grader.
My kids enjoyed the humor, and I laughed so hard at the antics of the black hand gang that I cried.
The oldest enjoyed trying to predict what would go wrong.
I loves Katie John books when I was younger, and it was fun to re-read this.
I remember then feeling how far in the past the book felt, and that feeling was much stronger (with better reason!) this time.
The book doesn't have a strong plot; the story revolves around the only child in family that moves from California to Missouri to sell an aunt's house but each chapter is a fairly distinct story of a random day in Katie John's life and it's really sweet picturing the carefree childhood days of that era.
Well worth the re-read. Looking back on my own youth now, I can see some similarities between Katie's life and my own. She found her great-aunt's wedding gown in the attic and tried it on. I found my mother's in ours and did the same. She and Sue tried to start a neighborhood newpaper. My friend Anne and I made a little hand-written newspaper one summer. But I never got into the trouble that Katie John did, as I was actually more like Sue than like Katie John. I can definitely see why I liked this book so much.
A first-time read for me.Must admit that I fell in love with the house before I fell in love with Katie John. I found some of her adventures rather annoying, but then there would be this spark of realness that kept me going. However, up until the last chapter, I was pretty sure that I would not be moving on to the sequels. And then, my love of the house took over and I know I'll have to read more, just to find out about the house's new life.
I had forgotten about the Katie John series until I saw one of the titles at the Social Service League thrift store. If I remember correctly, Katie John is a very wholesome little girl who has mild adventures. I may be wrong, but I think she was very much like Pollyanna in many way: cheerful; smart, but not brilliant; hardworking; obedient; maybe mildly naughty, but only to give the book a little excitement. Can Katie John really manage to entertain the children of the 21st century?
LOVED Miss Katie John. Another lively, spunky, regular girl heroin after my own heart.Does anyone remember the book where her mom puts hot potatoes in Katie's pocketsfor warmth and she is teased at school? Was it called Hot Potato Katie or am I dreaming?
2.5 stars, it just wasn't interesting to me. I didn't like Katie that much and the stories are definitely geared exclusively toward younger readers, with many obvious statements that make it a bit dull to plod through. If I had read this as a kid I might feel differently. :)
I loved this book as a child and am enjoying reading it to Mimie now. It's our first "big girl book" with only one picture per chapter. Mimie is completely engaged in the story and was actually scared when Katie was stuck out on that raft.
Katie John's true character is not accurately presented by the smiling cherub that graces the front cover of this book!I think that books like this, will continue to amuse some of today's kids, simply because the idea of a free-range childhood is to them a thing of fantasy.3.5 Stars
Spunky, clean reading...apparently the first book in a series (which would really appeal to R and other 10 year old girls). I don't remember reading this when I was young but this book is the reason S built secret passages in her new house.
i loved it so much. When i read it to my dad, he burst into tears so may times.
It was still cute, but not as good as when I read it in gradeschool. It is dated enough that it makes me reluctant to share it with my 5th grader.
The book I named my dolls and my daughter after. :)
one of my childhood favorites
I really liked this book :)
Katie John - an old friend. I loved these books when I was growing up.
Listed on "Stump the Bookseller" and seems interesting:http://w1.loganberrybooks.com/stumpth...
Laughed at this until I cried as a kid. I just found a nice hardback for $1 at the library sale. It's still lovely.
