https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327243.Atlas_of_Human_Anatomy_for_the_Artist
I have a deep appreciation and passion for the Arts. Several years ago, I was "forced" to purchase this book for a college art class. Upon initial inspection, it blew me away in unexpected ways. There isn't a whole lot of actual text, it's incredibly visual, showcasing both the flaws and beauty of the human form, both male and female alike. It's any art students dream! Then I actually sat down and examined each individual page/illustration, and found myself floored all the more. My expectations were far exceeded!!
Incredibly insightful. I'll be referencing to this a lot as time goes on.
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Atlas of Human Anatomy for the Artist by Stephen Rogers Peck is an anatomy reference book.It covers everything from bones, to muscles to topics like fat, veins, hair, age, sex, race and expression. There are some photos for reference as well. The writeup is descriptive and simple to understand. The examples are well illustrated and clearly labeled. It's pretty comprehensive.While it also has some figure drawing tips and instructions, it certainly is not as compr
(More pictures at parkablogs.com)Atlas of Human Anatomy for the Artist by Stephen Rogers Peck is an anatomy reference book.It covers everything from bones, to muscles to topics like fat, veins, hair, age, sex, race and expression.
There are some photos for reference as well.
The writeup is descriptive and simple to understand.
The examples are well illustrated and clearly labeled.
It's pretty comprehensive.While it also has some figure drawing tips and instructions, it certainly is not as comprehensive as dedicated figure drawing books.
Here, it's on the approach to drawing certain parts.
It's useful and very affordable.This book's recommended to beginner and intermediate artists.
In high school, I was taking Anatomy & Physiology as well as art and this book was highly relevant for both.
Granted, in high school, we didn't draw from nudes, but I was taking a portfolio development course at the Art Institute at the same time.
Then on to the bones, with written details about proportions and ways to determine exact location, no matter which direction you may be working from, as well as relevant use.
The muscles follow in a similar manner (my personal favorite), then surface anatomy, proportions, equilibrium and locomotion, distinctions of age, sex, and race, and then agents of expression.
This book is a must have for artists interested in the human figure! In my figure drawing class, this was our text book, and it has images and explanations of human anatomy that an artist can understand. The bone structure and musculature is addressed in a well formed manor. I use this book for reference anytime I am drawing a human figure.
Did you know that there is a 'tongue bone', called the hyoid? This was much more fascinating than I expected it to be and was replete with beautiful drawings. It has already helped my drawing abilities since I now focus more on the bone structure and musculature. The only criticism I have is that - in a sign of when it was written (1951) - it was far too focused on the male figure.
It took me over five months to "read" this book, and getting to the end tonight was a such a feeling of accomplishment.
I went back through my sketchbooks tonight and found that I've done over 100 anatomy drawings out of this book.
Disclaimer 2: Just reading an art book does not make you a better artist.
This book can be as useful as a month-long figure drawing course, provided that you're willing to put the work in and do endless pages of anatomy drawings.
If you're looking to draw hyper accurate realistic drawings, this might be helpful, but for the most part I found drawings of hipbones (just the bones) from various angles not all that helpful.I also didn't find the drawings in in charcoal all that helpful, as they seemed too thick to capture details.I would have liked to see more drawings and pictures of the human body put together, examples of more poses that showed how all those muscles/bones work in reality.Overall, wouldn't recommend, although I guess it's a nice shelf book.

This is an amazing book for artists beginning to learn anatomy. It builds up from the bones to the outer skin and hair, along with providing basic information on proportions, motion, equilibrium, age and sex, race etc. It just gives you a basic out line, all the necessary information with very good drawings in possible angles.For further reading I would recommend "Eliot Goldfinger - Human Anatomy For Artists"This is a must have for all artists.
Atlas of Human Anatomy for the Artist is definitely the best drawing anatomy book that I have came across in the past few years of concentrating on the subject.
It breaks each part of the body down to the bones and muscle structure, but also includes drawings by the author that show the workings of these parts.
Each area of the body has its own section so everything is easy to find and reference.
It also includes a section about the difference in anatomy between different ages and areas of the world, as well as extra or less weight.
The book shows both male and female anatomy as well.
This book proved invaluable to me in my studies but it's a bit of a problematic text.
First of all, all the principle models appear to be white and fit.
There's a section on drawing people of "other" races that's beyond cringe worthy.
I come back to them every now and then when life has gotten busy and I haven't been drawing enough to keep my chops up.
I could never have made it though school without this book but, you know, I'd be just as happy with something more suited to this century.
A beautiful book of the Human Anatomy. Not to be confused with a how-to-draw book, there are no instructions on how to sketch the human figure, it is simply a book on each individual bit of the human body. from hair to the bones, it covers everything. Aside from the wonderful illustrations, it's Stephen Roger Peck's words that make this book what it is. Through his writing you see his obvious reverence for the beauty and structure of the human body.And that reverence is contagious.
Uniquely instructive ... I still remember such gems as the morphology of the lower back and buttocks resembling the wings of a butterfly or the breast and its underlying pectoral muscle looking like commas on their sides. The illustrations are strangely stylized and gorgeous. Also, hysterical and weird photographs of people making screwey faces, the most disturbing of which being the countenance of someone at the moment of their death. Somehow more frightening in a book than in real life.
Really makes anatomy understandable ain function, limits and forces of movement, channels and blocks of bone, tendon and muscle. Best advanced artist anatomy with plenty of examples from various views. Would help with drawing from memory. Best in information of all anatomy books I have, but I still love Jeno Barcsay a. because he's Hungarian b. The family still fights to keep such a big book affordable c. student drawings of skeleton in action at the end.
Definitely a book to reference when one already knows anatomy. I bought it alongside two other anatomy books (which are focused on actual teaching) upon recommendation and do not regret it! Fantastic book because it clearly shows the muscle/bone names and, my favourite part, is that it has a chart of age differences as the body grows (ie baby, toddler, teen etc).
Very great book for reference. Many pictures and drawings help to understand the human anatomy. Nothing you should read page by page, you should pick the pages you need. Although its 40 years, its very useful and a must-read literature for every artist who needs help with anatomy and wants to learn more.
Time and time again, I come back to this book as a handy resource. It's a wonderful tool when it comes to drawing anatomy and understanding the basics and their functions. I wouldn't rely on this book alone as a pre-med student, but it's a wonderful companion to any hefty medical book and it breaks down complex information. As an illustrator student, I had to go no further for an anatomy book.
Really nice all around proportions and theory book of anatomy. Almost can take this around as an indispensable carry along guide to anatomy. Pretty rich with drawings, accurate paintings, and photos. Nicely explained as well.
Amazing illustrations and diagrams. Accurate and helpful. As an art student, this book was my holy grail. As a professional, I use it more for illustrative purposes than figure drawing. Skulls & skeletons are pretty popular right now!
If you are an artist, then this is an absolute MUST HAVE. It is a classic, to be sure, but there is so much to see here and, more importantly, so much to learn. I have worn out several editions of this book, given away even more to other artists and ensure that I always have a copy hanging around.
This has to be one of the most useful books I have ever purchased. I bought is as a textbook for my college figure drawing class and it is the ONLY book I bought at the time that I have actually picked up and used since I used it in college. I highly recommend it.
By far one of the best books out there for learning basic human anatomy, but it could really use a new edition as the older ones have some pretty horrifically racist sections.
Textbook for anatomy drawing class in Chicago, IL.
A great reference!
overall fairly handy, but the casual racism toward the end is troubling.
Truly excellent anatomy reference for sculptors.
as a self-proclaimed comic artist, I found this book extremely helpful as it covers every detail of the human muscle and bone and limitations of movements of one's body.
Anatomy for the Artist course textbook/reference, Westfield State College, 1997
Very informative about many of aspects of human anatomy, from the skeletal structure, to musculature, as well as skin. Very applicable to one desiring to hone their illustrative skills.
