https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/345504.Man_Is_Not_Alone
He is a deeply religious man who has no illusions about the difficulties of accessing faith and the ability to sense God. This is not the sort of theological work that is going to bother providing "proofs" for the existence of God. God is, after all, the Ineffable.
Without driving a particular dogma or doctrine, Heschel makes a case for the need to live a life based on something more than the small vanities that constantly entice us to focus on the small and trivial details of existence.That said, this is the sort of book that defies any easy summation or synopsis.
Man is Not Alone is the sort of book that the serious reader will never feel he has thoroughly completed.
The search of reason ends at the shore of the known; on the immense expanse beyond it only the sense of the ineffable can glide.
Neither of them is amphibious: reason cannot go beyond the shore, and the sense of the ineffable is out of place where we measure, where we weigh.We do not leave the shore of the known in search of adventure or suspense or because of the failure of reason to answer our questions.
We sail because our mind is like a fantastic sea shell, and when applying our ears to its lips we hear a perpetual murmur from the waves beyond the shore.I can't wait to read more of this book, but am going to savor it slowly.
When it comes to "red," we are able to scientifically demonstrate a number of facts: eg, that there is a spectrum of visible light in the wavelength range of roughly 625-750 nanometers, that seeing this wavelength causes certain sorts of neural activity in a majority of individuals, etc.
Indeed, it is this tendency to have a certain kind of cognitive response to certain conditions that comprises the entire existence of "red" as an experiential phenomenon.Similar to our experience of the color red, Heschel argues, each of us has experiences of the "ineffable" -- that is, something that the theory-inclined might call the sublime, while others might describe as the divine.
I feel quite under-qualified to give anything more than a personal impression, and even for that I think I should read the book again, and more in depth."Walking upon a rock that is constantly crumbling away behind every step, man cannot restrain his bitter yearning to know whether life is nothing but a series of momentary physiological and mental processes, actions, and forms of behavior, a flow of vicissitudes, desires and sensations, running like grains through an hourglass, marking time only once and always vanishing...
The writing style is beautiful and often I had the feeling of being "blown away."It's a very complex book, and I still don't understand many of the concepts in it.
We are unable to judge God. Responding With AweAccepting Heschel’s premise that God is ineffable resigns us to understanding that the only legitimate approach to God is through awe, wonder and amazement.
We must stop stifling our wonder with dogmatic religious explanations about things we can truly only be in awe about.
Immense freedom and wisdom comes to us when we jettison theological baggage and instead listen directly to God.Reverent Awe Brings Insight Instead of IdolatryWhen we stop judging the ineffable within the confinement of our past experiences, we are able to derive exciting insights from It. This is exemplified in the sort of creative newness that emerges in art, philosophy, and religion.
The majority of this book is note-taking fodder for the soul. The parts that I took exception to were few and not worth discounting the brilliance of this work. Such as this, p.245, "There is an eternal cry in the world: God is beseeching man. Some are startled; others remain deaf. We are all looked for. An air of expectancy hovers over life. Something is asked of man, of all men."Good stuff =)
Good Jewish rabbi/scholar. Hard at some points. Very uplifting.
Poetic and sober observations of the human condition while pointing to an ineffable reason for hope.
The best articulation of the religious experience I have yet read. The first part of the book, "The Problem of God," begins, as we all do, in wonder at all that is beyond words. From this start, Heschel develops an understanding of faith that is much more complete than others I've encountered. While the second part, "The Problem of Living," lapses occasionally into "Great Chain of Being" thinking, where humans are considered as above other creatures, on the whole (especially in the final chapter), it outlines a way of life that is deeply needed in the world.
This book started a bit slow for me but as I neared the end it once again shined as another masterpiece from R’ Heschel! My favorite chapter is the last one, The Pious Man. As R’ Heschel would say it is sublime! So many great quotes in this book. I wish I had the patience to type them up right now. But I don’t, so I won’t.
Wow. Read this book. A hefty feast for your soul.
Rich, dense, brilliant. Heschel's books should be read a paragraph or a page at a time.
Excellent!
For example, when Heschel speaks of the Shechinah flame over the pious man's head, and references OT scriptures, an observant reader will easily find the connection between this understanding of Jewish religion and the day of Pentecost mentioned in the book of Acts, where tongues of fire stood on the heads of those the Spirit of God descended upon that day.
Again, as a Christian myself, I cannot, and no longer will, ignore my Jewish roots.The first part of the book was wonderful as well, functioning as almost a proof for the existence of God through describing the Ineffable, that which man cannot explain.
I'd love a ten star system)In the realm of philosophy and theology, Heschel's writing isn't as riveting or entertaining as, say, Lewis' or Chesterton's, but it is strong and purposeful.
It has some loose (very loose) parallels to Mere Christianity (Mere Judaism?) in that it goes from why anyone would believe in the supernatural in the first place, then to 'why a loving God', to 'why a pious life.'A few condensed quotes:"[awareness of God] comes when, drifting in the wilderness, having gone astray, we suddenly behold the immutable polar star.""When mind and soul agree, belief is born.
His ultimate legacy is in his composing a song of deeds which only God fully understands."Recommended, noting that it requires attentiveness and patience.
Abraham Heshel in this novel brings to light the intricate values of faith, specifically for Judaism.
I have learned much from reading this book in regards to my own spiritual journey and in regards to my relationships with others.
I checked out this book from the library, but will definitely have to buy a copy for myself, for there were many quotes, ideas and Scriptures mentioned throughout the book that I would like to always have immediate access to.
If there is anyone out there trying to answer the tougher questions around faith and your purpose I would definitely recommend reading this book.
Somewhat easier reading than its big brother, "God in Search of Man". I still needed a dictionary open while reading it.I was surprised how Rabbi Heschel can stay clear of specific religious issues and just deal with our common humanity, and God's role in it, as well as our role in God's plan and creation.Heschel's writings seem to appeal to Christians as well as Jews, and this book is likely to appeal to anyone who is interested in spirituality.
I liked this book for its simplicity and its truth. It does keep saying the same thing over and over again, but that's only because anything is everything else in disguise. The unique things it says informed me more fully as to the particular strengths of Judiasm. I am looking forward to reading the companion book "God in Search of Man."
Heschel puts together a full and complex portrait of religion and the Jewish religion. Not an easy read at all, but it surely elucidates many questions about religion and puts some clarity for those who want to understand better those who believe in religion. Central ideas like monotheism, ethics, the ineffable, morality, are all present here in their universal and Jewish versions. Liked the book. Some parts could be used to elucidate and inspire most people, some parts are not for everyone.
I feel like I read the end of this book after too long a gap from the rest of it but every page was still Heschel through and through- piercingly confident descriptions that challenge you on every page to either agree with his (often inspiring) perspective or to carefully examine the source of the disagreement.
A wonderfully written book that could easily win readers of any religious confession - as well as atheists. Contains a tiny bit about Judaism; the rest of it is just about faith, God, and man. Very deeply enlightening and inspiring.
Any person wanting to know God will benefit from this work of Heschel.
I had to stop reading. This guy doesn't make much sense.
I didn't finish this book but I definitely want to return to it. The ideas in the book are worth pondering over a lifetime.
Possibly the best book on God and the encounter with the divine.
