https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/345592.t_zero

Italo Calvino is the cats pyjamas.If you are unsure of what exactly this means,so am I.He has the ability to embellish,to get behind and ahead at the same time,and if you can bear with the astounding way he constantly pulls the rug out from under the reader,you may find yourself helplessly rolling around laughing,on the bus.*What counts is communicating the indispensable,skipping all the superfluous,reducing ourselves to essential communication, to a luminous signal that moves in a given direction,abolishing the complexity of our personalities and facial expressions,leaving them in the shadowy container that the headlights carry behind them and conceal.* p133
The first two sections of this book serve as a kind of sequel to Calvino's wonderful "Cosmicomics", narrated again by the amorphous "Qfwfq". Calvino's stories, both in this collection and in "Cosmicomics", somehow manage to simultaneously function as postmodern literary experiments, science lessons, philosophical inquiries, cosmic mythologies and love stories. Another delightful treat from one of my favorite minds of the twentieth century.
دو داستان منشا پرندگان و رانندگی شبانه معرکه بودمن هنوز منتظرم کالوینو باز داستان بنویسه
When Calvino compares the angry jump of a lion with Zeno's motionless arrow--in fact the arrow itself that the narrator of that story tries with all his might to shoot at and stop the lion's jump IS Zeno's reasoning--we cannot say he fails when he does not succeed.
The arrow may have stopped, for all intents and purposes, any movement in science that science cannot dissect.
You can choose which side of truth you wish to agree on simply by envisioning each character's fate, or like most blind readers, simply by agreeing to the truth our foreign-speaking author appears to lay before us as the answer.
Signore Calvino's follow up Cosmicomics collection, Time and the Hunter, is characteristically imaginative.The book is broken up into three parts.
It describes the never ending chase of a broken hearted man trying to find his estranged lover but, in an almost Kierkegaardian sense, being infinitely resigned to the idea of never reaching her due to the infinite divisibility of the space he will have to cross from point A to point B.In conclusion, I will always be mesmerised by Calvino, and I still thoroughly enjoyed Time and the Hunter although it became a little bit more of a slog for me that the first collection had been.
End side note)The best stories:The Soft Moon: The moon descends towards Earth and drops lunar material.
She also points out that while some of the descending moon material may damage individual lives (or portions of cities!) it’s all for the best and all perfectly logical and normal – no problem!Crystals: The world is a battle between tightly disciplined crystals with their atoms lined up and the disarray of imperfect materials that are not crystal.
No one asked me, but I think the scene never changes: the archer, lion, and arrow are still stuck in time zero forever.The Chase: The hunted becomes the hunter.
The reader's reward for picking through the mess of diction is a load of quasi-mathematical/scientific crap that is dressed in incoherent imagery, poor logic, and uninspiring philosophy.
If you like this stuff, read Borges, read Douglas Hofstader, or why not try a book (or class!) on actual mathematics, physics, or philosophy of science?
Other people have already thought and written about the sorts of ideas in this book at much greater depth and with much greater clarity.
I'd guess that this book was deliberately written with experimentation in mind, and I respect the spirit of trying new and different things.
The Soft Moon: drawing from some abortive 18th-century theory that the Earth's continents were fallen moon chunks, Calvino dives into the implications of a moon pliable enough to spill matter onto us, making it sound totally disgusting.
And sets this cleverly at odds with his fictional earth origins and just runs and runs with this.
It's great, economical, weird, lavishly described, totally surprising.Blood, Sea: The circulatory system allows us to take saline blood, our ocean origins in miniature with us.
But it totally works, marrying this to almost Borges-like post-modern cleverness at times.
not as magical or charming as "Cosmicomics" -- ain't nothin' like the real thing, baby -- but all this talk about cosmology and supersonic highways made me think of a more romantic "Jetsons."
Espectacular, aunque tiene una parte un poco complicada
Qfwfq is a disheveled and obsessed lover, a single-celled organism who finds love and ecstasy for the first time when he divides, a eukaryotic cell about to divide meiotically, one who witnesses the birth and decline of the age of crystals--before what we know as cellular life evolved.
And by opening his glove compartment and finding a gun, his conclusions are confirmed, thereby he shoots the suspicious looking man in the next lane, which does indeed put an end to the chase.
Some are narrated by Qfwfq, who tells in first person stories of his experiences as various entities such as a unicellular organism at the creation of the universe.
In "Mitosis", for example, Qfwfq is telling of his time as a unicellular organism, but at every word he uses he must stop and explain that really, of course, time, space, identity and other things had no meaning for him then, as he was unaware of anything beyond his own being.
In theory, then, the hunter will experience this situation with the lion not just at the current point t zero, but again in reverse, and again as the universe expands again and contracts again (t1, t2, t3, etc.).
It does not end well.Crystals -- Qfwfq and a friend navigate the molten planet as it begins to form into solid materials, arguing about whether or not there is fundamentally order or chaos in the universe.Blood, Sea -- A story about the transition from ocean- to land-based life on earth, specifically how the nutrients needed to live have migrated from outside the body (sea) to inside it (blood).Part TwoMitosis -- The tale of the first unicellular organism to divide itself in two -- when does it cease to be itself and begin to be two separate beings?Meiosis -- What does it mean for two beings to love one another?
I've never read Calvino, in fact I never even heard of him until Radiolab devoted a special episode to the reading of his short story 'The Distance Of The Moon' and I immediately fell in love.What strikes me the most - overall about Calvino - is is blending of science and fantasy.
For me this mix of fact and fiction is at the heart of what makes life interesting and I love that the beauty of science and math can be described so fantastically without being dry, boring, or full of footnotes and caveats.
I read these stories for a paper I had to write while completing my Masters.
Again, weird stuff.Lastly is the T zero section (which is what I had to write my paper on).
Essentially it is Calvino's attempt at minimalist writing in which he uses Mathematics to tell stories.
The stories are odd and read like long word problems one would see in a math textbook.
It's quite odd but extremely interesting to see.If you are looking to read something that is entertaining, these stories aren't for you.
T zero are definitely not the most exciting of stories ever written but they are an extremely interesting read.

It made me calloused to the ideas he had about what a sentient experience of primordial things might be, which is too bad because I started out being pretty on board with the whole thing.This book would get one star from me if it didn't contain the final story, "The Count of Monte Cristo", in which he depicts the Count trying to map the prison of Château d'If in his mind in order to make his eventual escape.
His tangents are painfully parabolic (well, i guess not tangents anymore), the trajectories flying off into "God" (see: Qwfwq?) knows what, some stories so convoluted that you forget what point he was trying to make with one long-winded metaphor, if there was a point at all.Though, I have to say, one story I absolutely loved was the Inside/Outside Blood Love one...you just have to read it.It didn't help that I've been suffering from some serious headaches lately; the stories did nothing to alleviate these.
I think I owe it to myself and to Calvino to go back and read this again.
In fact, thinking about it now, I can't even recall the first couple of stories in this one.
"Of course, on every disputed issue our cells can follow the instructions of a single parent and thus feel free of the other's command, but we know what we claim to be in our exterior form counts for little compared to the secret program we carry printed in each cell, where the contradictory orders from father and mother continue arguing.
What really counts is this incompatible quarrel of father and mother that each of us drags after him, with the rancor of every point where one partner has had to give way to the other, who then raises his voice still louder in his victory as dominant mate.
“It’s difficult, in other words, to define in precise terms the imprecision of amorous moods, which 
I love Calvino.
I can think of no other writer who can spin a story that has neither plot nor standard characters and yet still give you that soul-thrill of having read a bit of undiluted (if strange) truth.
T-ZERO is experimental, even by Calvino's odd-junky standards.
Other stories examine the relationship of time to cause and effect and, yes, Calvino leaves it to the reader to choose either the man or the lion.
The story THE SOFT MOON is amazing, but if you read nothing else by Calvino read BLOOD, SEA.
As usual, when I see a different cover on the GoodReads entry & a different # of pp from the edition I've just read I get irritated - but, then, the ISBN's the same so..
I'm reading 6 bks at the moment PLUS the usual plethora of other things that somehow don't qualify for GoodReads inclusion.
That's quite a challenge.
& such challenges exemplify this bk.
It's all just so damned clever.
& he's damned good at it.
He takes things & slows them down & twists them around & analyzes them & displaces them & metamorphoses them in unexpected ways..
Maybe the subjects of the stories are more abstract, or they're less tied together.
In the end, there are some that take too much rereading to figure out, as opposed to the ones grasped from afar and easily.
I suppose you could characterize a lot of stories that way, but how many of them are about the spread of disease by sailors throughout Europe (Poe's "King Pest") or the inner workings of the cell (Calvino's "Mitosis" and "Meiosis," the latter of which reveals at the end that its protagonists are camels!) or the ways in which the Earth became as it is?
t zero is a must-read for anyone who enjoyed Cosmicomics, and a should-read for everyone else.Calvin
Some people even me enjoyed some short stories in section 2, Periseilla and T Zero the beautiful description subjects like time arrow, Galilean relativity, biology (evolution theory).So comparing to some sci-fi works, even some distinguished writers in this genre, I found Calvino better.
He created a world or history or just simple story but I found some stories like the night driver, the chase, or the Count of Monte Cristo, a masterpiece.
Therefore 4 stars which shows almost 4.3 for everything I could find from a non expert writer in science and his beautiful description on those subjects which are not really easy.I bet he had read Carl Sagan masterpieces.F.Z

"If on a Winter's Night a Traveler" is one of five or ten favorite reads of all time, up there with the "Quixote", "Tortilla Flat", "Roughing It", "Crime and Punishment" and a few others- I think I gave it five stars and this one four.
".Nothing compares to that, but "T-Zero" is a collection of short stories- and I love those.
It's been a few years since I read it, but if you love Calvino, you should check it out- I much prefer it to Invisible Cities (3 stars), which is less prose and more or less has a poetry flair of course.
At times in each segment Calvino's philosophical tone sounds bleak, but there is always a redeeming sense of real emotion that breaks through. The questions of existence brought up and addressed through physical example feel so precise it is kind of spooky. The last part "the count of monte cristo" wraps up the futility question nicely and leaves you with hope. I need to go back and re-read the Calvino books I read in high school. I doubt I got from them what I got reading this.
I personally loved that section about the birds. It is remarkable how he depicts the way we interact with new ideas,objects and incidents, using the story about the emergence of birds as symbols of novelty.
