https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133782.The_Sunflower
The injured man asks Simon to sit and listen to his story.
The young man, Karl, now on his deathbed, wanted forgiveness from a Jew for what he had done.Simon Wiesenthal listened to the whole story, although he tried to leave several times.
He listened to the entire story, and when Karl asked for his forgiveness at the end, Simon got up and walked out.
My main issue with the story is not whether Simon should have forgiven or not, but whether Karl should have asked.
One good point brought up by several writers is that he asked for a Jew for forgiveness, he didn't ask for a Nazi to convert.
Wiesenthal's true story might just be a thought experiment for an Intro to Ethics course, were it not for his writing, which makes this book something loftier.
Much less interesting are the short essays that make up the second part of the book.
Many of the contributors are Catholic clergy, which makes it impossible to keep one's cynicism at bay while reading their pronouncements that Nazis deserve grace too.
It may be my antireligious bent, but I found that among THE SUNFLOWER's contributors, it was the theologians -- particularly the Christians -- who had least to add of interest.
"Dio é in vacanza" Simon Wiesenthal, scampato miracolosamente alla detenzione nei lager, è noto come "il cacciatore di nazisti".Dopo la liberazione da Mauthausen, cominciò a collaborare con gli agenti statunitensi nel raccogliere informazioni sui criminali nazisti sfuggiti alla cattura.Ne "Il girasole" Wiesenthal rievoca la vita prima della detenzione in una Polonia in cui gradualmente, ma senza alcuna remora, mette le radici uno spietato antisemitismo. Tratteggia, poi, quell'assurda e disuman
Simon Wiesenthal, scampato miracolosamente alla detenzione nei lager, è noto come "il cacciatore di nazisti".Dopo la liberazione da Mauthausen, cominciò a collaborare con gli agenti statunitensi nel raccogliere informazioni sui criminali nazisti sfuggiti alla cattura.Ne "Il girasole" Wiesenthal rievoca la vita prima della detenzione in una Polonia in cui gradualmente, ma senza alcuna remora, mette le radici uno spietato antisemitismo.
All'improvviso succede che un'infermiera lo chiama per un oscuro compito: una SS morente ha domandato la presenza di un ebreo (uno qualunque, uno vale l'altro...) a cui confessare efferati delitti per poi avere il suo perdono.
Il solo fatto di avere richiesto la presenza di Simon al suo capezzale, espone l'ebreo alla punizione, se non addirittura alla morte.
This is not another telling of the horrors of day-to-day existence in a concentration camp, but rather, the telling of an exchange between himself and a dying S.S. officer, who wishes to speak with "a Jew" so that he may confess his crimes against the Jewish people, and be absolved/forgiven, so that he may die in peace.The remainder of the book is the response of fifty-three noted persons (theologians, holocaust survivors, political leaders, writers), to the author's experience.
He knows the SS soldier who wanted to confess to him will be getting one, but that he himself is destined for an unmarked mass grave.Some issues that surface in that first 100 pages: (1) treating others as not being humans, (2) questions about who can forgive, (3) seeing a Jew as a representative of a collective, (4) the mental passivity the prisoners suffered in consequence of hopelessness and dehumanization and death all around, (5) the bitter conclusion that God must be "on leave," (6) the observation of how some individuals are always on the side of whoever is in power, (7) how the acceptance that Nazis had committed incredible crimes was followed in short order by demands they be forgiven, (8) and, questions about putting on, then taking off, a murderous ideology.A couple of quotes that impacted me:Soon after the liberation I joined a commission for the investigation of Nazi crimes.
Il merito di Wiesenthal è stato quello di aver costituito un forte stimolo per i governi a perseguire i criminali nazisti e alla creazione di tribunali internazionali per i crimini di guerra, prima, e contro l’umanità, quale oggi la Corte Penale Internazionale dell’Aja.“Il girasole”racconta una storia che sembra autobiografica, un breve racconto di un episodio accaduto a un prigioniero ebreo: l’incontro con un giovanissimo ufficiale delle SS sul letto di morte, che chiede il perdono per un crimine commesso contro ebrei inermi.Dal racconto prende il via una successiva discussione, cui partecipano filosofi, intellettuali, sacerdoti cattolici, rabbini ebrei, politici, tutti interpellati da Wiesenthal, sulla decisione da prendere: perdonare o non perdonare?La premessa fatta sull’autore del libro è essenziale per comprendere che Wiesenthal non è uno scrittore, è un TESTIMONE necessario affinchè il mondo conosca se stesso e gli orrori cui è stato capace in passato –ma anche nel presente- di giungere, e non dimentichi.Perdonare o non perdonare il tedesco “pentito”?
This book gathers a diverse collection of responses to a request for forgiveness by a dying soldier for atrocities he took part in.
In part, some of the responses tended to gather around perspectives that different faiths had about forgiveness, including a core question of whether some acts can even be forgiven if the person who was wronged was no longer living and could not be asked for forgiveness.
This book was masterful in explaining what it means to ask for and give forgiveness.
I will always think of it differently now.
Recommended by Juli Ann -- I'm not sure I'll do this in a sitting; I may mete out the essays between other pieces of fiction.Well...I'll be honest.
I didn't read every essay in the back of the book.
I read the ones written by people I have heard of.
I enjoyed reading Matthew Fox & Desmond Tutu.
I think my reading of this holocaust account was made more intense by my experience at the Museum of Tolerance this past summer.
Wiesenthal's work is so inspiring, and reading his words helps me understand how he could do so much good after experiencing such atrocities.
As given in the book description, this is at once a memoir and a large set of responses to it, most hingeing on the problematics of sin and forgiveness.
Descriptions of concentration camp life and of war are distressing enough, but in this loaded instance when the war is WWII, the camp a Nazi one and the victims the Jewish author and a host of other Jewish civilians, lots of emotions are stirred--as is quite apparent in the responses of the fifty or so commentators on the story.What I found distressing about most, but not quite all, of the response was the blindness of the authors.
The story itself is very powerful and does bring this slew of questions into mind.
Did he do the right thing?
I found myself more thinking of what I had hoped he'd done.
But when it comes to the second half of the book, other people's opinions, I found other opinions to be not compelling or annoying.
In fact, I did not finish that section because i didn't really care about what all these people thought.
I completely recommend the story itself and in fact if the book only contained that, it'd be 4 stars and not 3.
Un libro que te deja pensando sobre la humanidad. ¿Hasta cuando existe el perdón? ¿Qué barreras se deben de romper para que el perdón sea inaceptable? ¿Se puede perdonar a alguien que haya sido parte de las aberraciones y atrocidades de los nazis? ¿Quién tiene el poder de perdonarlos? Un tema muy profundo que te deja la pregunta abierta para que tú seas el que la conteste. Es impensable que un hecho como el holocausto sea pasado por alto... perdonar es olvidar y no podemos olvidar.
Forgetting is something that time alone takes care of, but forgiveness is an act of volition, and only the sufferer is qualified to make the decision.You, who have just read this sad and tragic episode in my life, can mentally change places with me and ask yourself the crucial question, “What would I have done?” The following 170 pages are responses from 46 ‘distinguished men and women’.
It has strength.… God says: “Now Adam is like one of us, knowing the difference between right and wrong.”The simple explanation that after humans have sinned they become Godlike seems puzzling.
With every individual’s limited viewing in the court that Wiesenthal has created, they had to relate to it to the best of their ability to decipher what Weisenthal should or should not have done.
So, I related to it the best I could base on my circumstances and here is what I found:Evil gives birth to evil.
Beauty of forgiveness puts a stop and shames the hate.
I can’t say I would have the willpower to forgive nor if Simon should have forgiven.But I know what I know: that the beauty of forgiveness has won and taken over me.
I’ve always had this obsession with learning about the Holocaust, and this novel only helped to feed that desire for more knowledge.I would most definitely recommend this book to a friend.
I hadn’t even completed reading the book when I offered it my praise and persuaded another to flip through its pages.
But it’s not just the story that mesmerized me; the thoughts that my mind conjured in response to Wiesenthal’s story and the many replies presented within the pages of The Sunflower led me to adore this novel.
What would you do if your persecutor asked for your forgiveness? The writer tells us what he did and the rest of the book are what well known writers and philosophers wrote what their thoughts. They way we answer this question reflects who we're are. Not sure any of us can ever put ourselves in the position of Simon. What this book offers is the opportunity to reflect on what we can do today to make the lives of those currently persecuted better.
This story, like much of the Holocaust canon, carries a distinct weightiness, if only for the scale of human atrocities that were committed--and the fact that we can refer to a canon under which we may subsume genocide as simply a category, but whose umbrella is inclusive of so much more that is so atrocious as to have no equivalent.
It seemed that few were comfortable grappling with the moral and ethical struggle the narrative was posing, and partly because they had not passed through the furnace as Simon had." I was wrong.
The responses are a tapestry of nuances regarding the multiple layers of meanings the author asked his contributors to consider.
But, that is really Simon's struggle, even after the war when he is facing Karl's mother.
Theologian Matthew Fox says this in his commentary on The Sunflower: Simon offered Karl a morally responsible and adult response.
The Sunflower is no anemic post modern spiritual entertainment.The second thing is, as the subtitle suggests, that forgiveness has limitations to it….very human limitations that often get glossed over by today’s purveyors of spiritual wisdom.
We even get told that it is a selfish act that we do for ourselves, as if this makes forgiveness an easy no brainer, but we seldom stop to ponder the darkest, harshest moral dilemmas the forgiveness offers us when we confront the inhumanity of others.The edition I have includes a second section titled the Symposium, where I gleaned the Matthew Fox quote from.
Reading this book forces you to make the decision, would you be able to forgive this dying Nazi soldier who took part in the torture and suffering of the Jews?
It was pretty clear to me that this dying man was still only really concerned with himself and believes that if he can get one Jew to forgive him, then he will be absolved and be able to die in peace.
Sure this Nazi soldier talks about his pain and suffering that he did during this time, that's fine, but he could have stepped up and refused to participate, but he did not.
The Nuremberg Trials is the general name for two sets of trials of Nazis involved in war crimes committed during WWII.
The first, and most famous trial, tried the most important and decorated political and military leaders of the Third Reich.
The second set of trials for lesser war criminals.
Imagine you are a Jewish prisoner in a concentration camp and a dying Nazi soldier ask for your forgiveness for crimes in which he had participated.
The book includes 53 responses to the question Wiesenthal poses, from Holocaust survivors, theologians, human rights activists, jurists, political leaders, victims of attempted genocide (in Bosnia) and others.
Too deep but I think it's an important book to read.
How could anyone convince "good boys" who were raised with religious beliefs and morals to murder innocent Jews or any group for that matter on such a scale.
Not to mention much worse and then this book asks the reader to ask themselves if you were asked to forgive these crimes by a dying Natzi would you?
I think it's important for young people to learn about how horrible things can develop to hope to avoid similar events in the future.
Simon Wiesenthal proposes the question, "What would you have done?" What would I have done?
That is an impossible question to answer.
I would like to say that I would have forgiven the S.S. officer, but at the same time I would like to say that I would not have forgiven him.
I think that forgiveness can only be given by oneself.
I think based solely on the idea that he could not forgive himself, he was not truly remorseful.
He was merely looking for "A Jew" to relieve his suffering.I believe silence was the perfect response to this officer.
This book was just fascinating.
Simon Wiesenthal first relates his experience of being a prisoner in a concentration camp and having a dying Nazi soldier ask him for forgiveness for his crimes against the Jews.
Then there are 53 responses by noted theologians, historians, clerics and others as to whether what Mr. Wiesenthal did was right or not.
Some responses focused on who has the right to forgive.
Others were really off topic.
By the time I finished the book, it was totally marked up, but I learned a lot about the power, the possibilities, and the limits of forgiveness.
The essays at the end of the book attempt to explain human actions and place significance on the importance of free will.
Forgiveness is about letting go explains one essay; while another essay mentions that if the SS officer was not facing death, his confession would not have happened; and Desmond Tuto explains that forgiveness is "perfect politics".
It is in fact necessary in order for there to be a future.What would I have done?I would have walked away, perhaps not from indignity, but more so from the speechlessness of such a proposition.
Simon Wiesenthal's story of being an inmate in a concentration camp and being asked by a dying Nazi soldier for forgiveness poses many moral issues for consideration and discussion.
Was it Simon's right to grant forgiveness and were his actions just?
Was the dying man truly repentant or just guilty and fearful of dying?
What of his choice of joining the SS and his choice of Simon as the listener of his last confession?
Should Simon have told the soldier's mother something other than what he did?
These questions and others are pondered by theologians, political leaders, writers, psychiatrists, Holocaust survivors, and others.
The rest of the book is people trying to answer how they would have handled the conundrum the author lays out in the beginning.
If a truly penitent person guilty of committing crimes against Jewish people (now dead, partially as a result of his crimes) asks for forgiveness how do you respond?
I won't try to clarify the situation any more as it's a complex situation and you should read it in full context before trying to answer.
A fantastic question and I love hearing that some teachers have used this in class to elicit discussion on the subject of forgiveness and justice.
I give this book 3.5 stars which rounds up to 4.I read this book for one of my philosophy classes. This book poses a very interesting ethical dilemma: As a prisoner in a concentration camp, do you forgive a dying SS solider? This book offers numerous responses to this question. Some were a bit repetitive. Some didn't really answer the question at all. But some were really thought provoking.
This book provides a clear reminder that survivors of the Holocaust can be bad writers, too. To be fair, I had to read this book because the college where I teach assigned this to all the Freshman. The responses to the question Wiesenthal poses are not interesting either. I will give the book an extra star, though, because I also disapprove of genocide.
I think this is a book everyone should read.
More than anything Wiesenthal’s story teaches us the power of silence, a power which grants respect, confesses that man is not omniscient and recognizes that sometimes humans are helpless.
The SS man asks Wiesenthal to forgive him not only as an individual, but in the name of the Jews who burned in that house.
If the SS man was in fact asking Wiesenthal to forgive in the name of all Jews, then Wiesenthal’s silence states simply that he cannot forgive in the name of others.
Very thought provoking book.
Actually, there were two books, one describing the author's experience in a Nazi concentration camp, and in particular, an encounter with a dying SS officer who told the author about his part in the brutal killing of jews that he participated in.
The author listened to the dying man, and was even humane in his treatment of him, but did not "forgive" the Nazi, but instead, left the room without saying anything.
The second book is a compilation of articles by some 50 people relaying their thoughts about this interaction.
