https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64581.Cartoon_History_of_the_Universe_I_Vol_1_7
One of my all time favorite books.A classmate once asked a teacher how I know so many things (this was in reference to prehistory, greek history, early hominids, early civilizations, egypt). The answer came back "because she reads a lot." The picture that came into my head was this book, and I started to smile. Not exactly the kind of reading I think she meant.
jalan ceritanya kayaknya dah lupa deh *garuk garuk*tapi yang inget buku ini bikin gw cekikikanmalah ingetnya kejadian beli bukunya di BBC palasari.
pas iseng2 ngeliat, buku ini ada yang sampulnya dah dibuka.
alhasil tiap 3-5 menit gw musti nempelin bodi ke tembok sambil nahan napas (ada orang lewat!) blom lagi pelayan tokonya yang kadang2 memberikan tatapan aneh (keseringan cekikikan sendiri).
setengah jam lewat dah nebeng baca sepertiganya.
lama2 jengkel juga banyak orang yang lewat ama kaki udah pegel plus keseringan nahan napas ngempesin en nempelin perut ke tembok (bodi gw ternyata "menyulitkan" orang yang pengen lewat, hehehe).
pas nyampe rumah baru inget kalo buku yang gw incer lupa dibeli.
Gonick's emphasis on sex is roughly equivalent to the emphasis given in the primary source texts with which he is dealing, the biblical texts certainly being no exception.) And speaking of the Bible, that brings up the second yellow flag.
To which the reply is "Well, actually, Mount Carmel is right next to the sea, which, even during the most prolonged drought would have no shortage of water which, though undrinkable, would nonetheless have sufficed for Elijah's purposes well enough."At any rate, I find it pretty easy to overlook his skeptical handling of biblical history given the fact that he nonetheless treats it, more-or-less at least, as history, (just as he also does, incidentally, with some of the mythologies of Greece and of the other cultures represented).
Great epic view of history, with lots of synthesis between events/movements occurring concurrent in different parts of the world. This volume covered many time periods I already knew a great deal about -- Greek & Roman empires; the Biblical era -- but there were still many nuggets of history that were completely new to me. The history of Mesopotamia, for example, when contrasted with what the Bible said had occurred, was fascinating. The strangeness of Egyptian history. The many humorous footnotes. A good intro to history, and one that can spark interest in the source material.
I don’t know as much about the content of the other issues to say that there were inaccuracies, but I am doubtful anyway.
Even if I put aside the issues listed above and read this as if it were just any other comic book with a story, it’s dull and confusing.
People and places are mentioned in a way that they are difficult to remember or connect with what I had already read in this book.
Everything is too rushed.This is a waste of time.If you are a baboon who has never read history and wants a book with silly jokes and cute pictures, read this.
Fantastic imagery and lovely writing. Engaging, easy to read, easy to pick back up after long pauses, and just all-around wonderful.
Much of history is conjecture, so its good to have multiple opinions on the subject matter.
I think one criticism of this book is that Gonick seems confident in his opinion and either writes off other opinions who doesn't discuss them at all.
He's highly critical of religion (which I think is a good thing because it allows him to provide conjecture of the real-world basis of religion and religious/mythical [is there a difference?] stories).
I was bored by the Greek stories, which makes up that latter part of the book, if only because I am familiar with Greek history through my studies of its philosophy.

This is such an *awesome* book.
From the time I was about 7 to, oh, a few months ago, I have picked up this book and disappeared for an hour or so at a time just reliving this very wrily funny (re: British) "comic" on human history, from the Big Bang up to Alexander's conquest.
Every child in the world should be given this on their 7th birthday so they can keep revisiting it their whole lives.And plus, it's the HISTORY of the UNIVERSE, folks...in addition to being funny and charmingly illustrated, dear lord is it comprehensive.
I don't know what it says about me that this book counts as one of my major comfort books. My wife reads Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum books, I re-read the Cartoon History. I guess it's just been a stressful few weeks for me.My one off-note of this book is a change in the style of the art for the last chapter (covering the Golden Age of Athens up to Alexander the Great). Gonick was going for a more Crumb, less cartoony style, but I like the earlier style better.No more information, just go find it and read it!
gw beli n baca komik ini rekomendasi nafi (eh..helo)gw suka sejarah, gw suka gambar, gw suka humor, baca buku ini serasa di surga, bahagiaa banget hahaha.. tiap halaman bisa sampe guling2an ketawanyacontent sejarahnya kaya & simpel riset si ahli math Gonick super bgt (coba liat bagian pustakanya, yg kocak juga =D) tetap ada beberapa fakta sejarah yang harus kita compare lagi sih. kadang komik ini jadi referensi tercepat gw kalo mo ngecek kronologis dari suatu kejadian sejarah, hahahakalau baca buku ini.. santai aja, dan siap2 menertawakan diri sendiri, si manusia (dan si amang, hahaha)
Overly obsessed with sex, focused on minutae, and at times offensive to my Christian viewpoint (I often felt that Gonick was accusing ANYINE with religious convictions of being dim-witted and gullible). I'm glad I read it, and there are a few parts if the Greek history that I'd like to use in teaching, but overall, I'm thoroughly unimpressed. Despite the fact that the next book contains through the fall of Rome (my favorite period to teach in World History), I'll not be picking up Gonick's next book. It's not worth slogging through the rest to get to those little gems.
Refreshing, belajar sejarah jadi gak perlu serius banget.Di buku I ini, Larry Gornick mencampur adukkan teori2 ilmu pengetahuan, sejarah, dan sedikit mitology2 dalam bentuk komik yang lucu. Walaupun mungkin ada beberapa hal yang masih jadi perdebatan oleh para ahli di bidang ilmu pengetahuan, sejarah & kebudayaan.
7th book read in 2016.Number 146 out of 500 on my all time book list.Review Pending:
Have you ever wondered about history, but find textbooks too dense (and boring), to read? Then The Cartoon History of the Universe, Volumes 1-7, by Larry Gonick, is for you. He is a cartoonist who is best known for this series of books, which were published in installments from 1977 to 2009. Gonick takes us on a trip from the beginning of the universe, to Alexander the Great, with a satirical undertone that would make even the most stony-faced man chuckle. In his effort to make history engaging
This medium works well, as his goal is to educate people in a way that makes them enjoy history, and everyone loves a good graphic novel.
Gonick chose this subject because he understands that people often dislike history, and associate it with the sensation of reading a boring textbook, and he wanted to change this.
People tend to remember funny things better than boring ones.
I would strongly recommend this book, Larry Gonick, as an author in general, because it sucks you in and really ingrains the ideas into your head.
Menarik, seperti jilid III. Hanya saja di jilid I ini seperti diajak bertamasya ke suatu zaman yg tidak kita kenal, sulit sekali membayangkan tenang bagaimana awal mula bumi terbentuk dan lain sebagainya yang menyertai peradaban. Bagian tentang kisah peradaban Yunani begitu banyak sehingga sulit untuk menemukan benang merah antar sub babnya masing-masing. Seolah diajak meloncat-loncat di era tersebut. Begitu juga dengan pengungkapan di bab tentang zaman Mesir. Akhirnya aku tidak bisa menikmati. Hehehe
Fantastic book! Sayangnya saya harus membaca versi translasinya, dan sebagaimana banyak buku terjemahan dari Amerika Serikat, terlalu banyak idiom khas Amrik yang tidak diterjemahkan secara tepat. Jadi, ada beberapa fragmen yang rasanya kurang tepat sasaran. Plus, entah ini kesalahan translasi atau Larry Gonick yang (tidak) sengaja melakukannya, ada beberapa penamaan tokoh/tempat yang kurang konsisten.
Ambitious and a good concept, but I was irritated by how women were consistently portrayed as punchlines and sex objects. Also disproportionately focused on bible stories. And covers almost exclusively the Mediterranean, not even mentioning South America, East Asia, etc. Could not finish. Not recommended- weed it for outdated approach.
Everything one needs to know about the world's beginning, from the formation of the planet, the start of life, the different scientific eras, dinosaurs, early life, evolution of man, wars, plantlife, cultures, religions, etc., etc., from the beginning up to and including Alexander the Great. So much information, but presented in a easy to understand and enjoyable way, all in comic form.
Cannot recommend this book enough. It condenses a lot of information into just a few pages, yet strikes the perfect balance between details and brevity. I was looking to expand my knowledge about world history, and this book is an immense help in building a solid mind-map for the same. Why isn't this mandatory reading in schools/colleges already?
Hilarious and informative. From the big bang, evolution, the rise and fall of many civilizations.. Cannot wait to read the rest of the series. If you're a noob in history like me, you may want to give this one a try. Guaranteed to keep you entertained.
A history of the universe, swathed in nauseatingly snide humanism.
Lucu tanpa mengurangi logika. Harap membuka pikiran seluas-luasnya karena ada beberapa hal (terutama mengenai keagamaan) yang mendobrak keyakinan yang sudah ada.
got it, skimmed it, seemed fine but decided not to read it. probably not giving it a chance and I may try to read it another time. artwork was fine. very thick book and so it gets bonus points just for tackling such a huge subject.
https://www.academia.edu/3090540/A_ig...
I honestly do not know how he does it. To have so much history pop off of the pages with such wit is astounding.
Kind of inappropriate for a History book... like the "Hose joke"
good one
If you like his stuff, you'll like this.
Absolutely fabulous.
