https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/774060.Prisoner_of_My_Desire
With the premise of the heroine raping the hero—this is just one of those books I shouldn’t like, but sorry - not really sorry at all - I loved it.Prisoner of My Desire is the definition of a bodice ripper, written three decades ago with a strong, sassy heroine and an almost irredeemable hero.
Because Prisoner of My Desire = rape everywhere.
Honestly, I’ve read a lot of bodice rippers and a lot of rape done to the heroine, but never once to the hero, so is it bad to say it was refreshing?Anyway, Warrick was pissed.
4.5 enjoyable stars.Really enjoyed this one.Asshole hero who does redeem himself. Liked Rowena. She could stand up for herself.Sorry, Friday night! Too tired for a long review.
I am not talking about this book mainly but other books because even when the scene is nowhere near rape, some readers are quick to say rape and I think the word is always being thrown around in these book reviews too much.
I mean all around, this was a good book very strong chemistry between the hero and heroine..If your really a die hard historical romance reader and you know what to expect from them and you love Johanna Lindsey, or your just discovering her, get this book...and I hope you like it.http://www.romancenoveljunkies.com
Unfortunately Lyons dies on the wedding night before anything can happen and so Gilbert orders a substitute whacked over the head and brought to Rowena's bed for stud purposes.
The other Johanna Lindsey I'd read (A Gentle Feuding) was pretty tame and boring, so the setup here of having the hero chained to the heroine's bed for stud service - and the inevitable like-for-like payback once Warrick got the upper hand - was more oomphy and interesting than the unending bicker-and-bluster that was Feuding.
While it was predictable, I do give Lindsey points for having Warrick's offspring be somewhat varied.Onto the hero and heroine.
Once she is faced with Lord Fulkhurst, it didn’t matter what type of begging she did, he was going to be a wee bit cranky.Prisoner of my Desire was a hard book to love, especially when you couldn’t help but despise the hero for most of the book.
To be honest, if Rowena had had to bed the old coot, I think I would have thrown up a little.Prisoner of my Desire was a love story that does have a happy ending, but it was a journey that had some unpleasantness to it.
It does, in my favorite way - angry sex, guilt and occassional moments of soul-sucking love.Rowena's step brother, Gilbert d'Ambray has the hots for her, but in no way is marrying her acceptable, especially when she would be more useful in marrying old depraved men who could supplement his forces against Warrick deChaville, and produce a male heir.
I just wish that Warrick wasn't such a hardass and actually listened to her explanations.Rowena's brother isn't too bad either - just kinda dumb.
I may be saying bad things about this book, but I honestly really liked it.
"I am glad 'twas you."  LOVED THIS ONE! Didn't want to put it down. This was my first book by this author. And I will definitely be looking for more from her.
I was frequently frustrated and angry with the insincere and illogical actions of Rowena and Warrick in this story.Story brief: Evil stepbrother Gilbert wants the Kirburough land, owned by Lyons.
There were many occasions that angered me, but in the interest of saving some writing time, I have chosen two examples, described below.CAUTION SPOILERS:When Warrick was chained to the bed and Rowena was first brought to him, Rowena should have told him the truth -- her mother was held prisoner and would be killed if Rowena did not get pregnant by Warrick.
Though I don't think it's a five star read, I am definitely glad I invested the time to read it.
I suspect that scene alone is what drives most of the five star reviews.
I was right there in the room feeling the hero's vicious anger and the heroine's shame and awkwardness.
I wished the author had put as much effort into the final scene as she did in the first.I suspect in it's hey day, this book packed quite a punch.
It's definitely worth a read if you want something different, and don't object to the un-pc machinations found in bodice rippers.
Another 2018 favorite!
I wasn’t sure if I’d love it as much as I did.
I guess you could say like Rowena, I fell in love with Warrick page by page, little by little and a bit unexpectedly.
This man or should I say fire breathing dragon (I loved it when Rowena referred to him as such) was not easy to love nor did he love easily.
But sweet and strong Rowena would be his undoing.Fabulous story filled with wonderful characters.Johanna Lindsey is a new author for me and it thrills me to say I will be reading more from her.
Prison of my Desire was that unexpected and unputdownable read.
Πόσο ωραίο συναίσθημα,όταν ξεκινάς να διαβάζεις ένα βιβλίο με ελάχιστες προσδοκίες και καταλήγεις να το αγαπήσεις και να σε ξαφνιάσει ΤΟΣΟ ευχάριστα!
Το "Αιχμάλωτη του πόθου μου" είναι πολλά περισσότερα από μια ιστορία αγάπης με φόντο τους ιππότες και τις αρχόντισσες.
4 starsSurprisingly, i truly enjoyed this book. Been a while since i've read Johanna Lindsey but i'm glad i gave this one a chance. Heroine was spunky enough for the hero who was a total ass! I loved that she made him grovel at the end, take that ass-hat!
Lo encadenaron y bajo amenazas obligó a Rowena a abusar de el para conseguir concebir, a los tres días Rowena hace que alguien suelte y deje escapar a Warrick, y luego el vuelve con su ejército a buscar venganza de la mujer que abusó de el.
I'll start this review by saying that for the last six months I've been working on writing a book of my own.
But still I write, knowing and not caring that it will never get published.
Maybe because deep-down I know that what I've written is completely shitty and people will make fun of me for it?But then I read a book like this and I'm left disturbed and confused.
I would like to freely admit that this is an example of a book that is completely shitty and needs to be made fun of, but I'm not going to do that.
I loved Johanna Lindsey in her early writing years and read every book.
I didn't quite like all of them because there were a couple with heros and ow and I hated that but this one was good.
The H was very cruel in the beginning of the book but he had reason to be I guess.
I also liked that she was strong enough not to just fall over when he said he was sorry.
What happened to the guy from the beginning of the book??
So I guess Gilbert could too.I am glad I reread it.
I even raised the stars because I liked it so much.
Both, of the Hero and the Heroine.
The heroine is forced to make physical relation with the hero; or see her mother die at the hands of her step brother.
The hero when gets a chance to escape, he comes back and takes her prisoner believing her to be an immoral woman and seeks to exact revenge by raping her in return.
But what ensues the revenge was a lesson a hardened warrior learns in love.
He couldn't stop himself from taking her more times than he cynically planned.
And she miserably failed to loath his touch every single time !
"Prisoner of my Desire" is the story of Rowena and Warrick.Now, I have to clarify that this book will not be for everyone- but if you enjoy old school romances, bodice rippers and Johanna Lindsey-then you won't have any problem with it.The book starts with our heroine, Rowena Belleme being witness to the brutal whipping of her mother by her lecher stepbrother- and to save her she is forcefully married to an old haggard asshat.
Hell nah.But if you want to destress with a reluctant romance, and dont have a lot of triggers (semi consensual sex, public whippings, humiliation, tying up)- you might enjoy this.Safe3/5
Not Your Ordinary Medieval Romance—a Bodice Ripper that Turns the Tables!Set in England in 1152, this is the story of Warrick de Chaville, Lord Fulkhurst, a fierce knight who learned at a young age to take revenge on any who harmed him.
When Warrick gains his freedom he vows to have his revenge, “like for like.” So he imprisons Rowena in his castle, taking her as he wants and forcing her to act the servant.
Meanwhile, he must contend with the spirited woman who he changed from a lady to a servant, all for the sake of revenge.A bodice ripper that turns the tables—a great read that will keep you turning pages!
5 ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ Wench loving, Fire-breathing dragon STARSDamn, this was a FABULOUS read. I loved it from beginning to end and I am anxious to read more from this author. Thank you, Karen, for recommending this to me. 'Twas still empty, that road, except for a traveling merchant and his baggage. "I give you your life do you trouble me no more."  "I will decide what your life is worth. As it happens, a castle—nay, a hundred castles—cannot compare with what you mean to me.""'Twas a waste of a good dung
5 ★ ★ ★ ★ ★ Wench loving, Fire-breathing dragon STARSDamn, this was a FABULOUS read. I loved it from beginning to end and I am anxious to read more from this author. Thank you, Karen, for recommending this to me. 'Twas still empty, that road, except for a traveling merchant and his baggage.
  "I give you your life do you trouble me no more."

  "I will decide what your life is worth. As it happens, a castle—nay, a hundred castles—cannot compare with what you mean to me.""'Twas a waste of a good dungeon do you ask me."
This wasn't a romance novel.
This was an erotic novel posing as a romance, so it wasn't even that good.
The plot was weak, with so many logical fallacies on the parts of the characters that I genuinely questioned their intelligence.
Too, the rape bothered me.
And everything up til her planned seduction was rape.
TBH, while it's not my thing, I would have been fine with it if the novel weren't trying to be a romance.
As it was, the love story was incredibly weak, with the characters' feelings appearing out of nowhere.
The eroticism was also weak because, well, after those first few scenes the sex was bland.
After reading the reviews on Goodreads, I decided to go ahead and pick this book off my Grandma's shelf.It was a twisted tale indeed...she raped him, he raped her and then he threw her in a dungeon. I was so curious how this was going to turn into a romance...but it did indeed. Good writing, snappy dialogue, enjoyable characters...I was hooked. This was my first book by this author...I'll probably pick up another one some time. Bodice ripper, indeed!Now I know what my Grandma reads....hmmmm.
UGGGGGH I read this because someone on the VF forum said it was an interesting role reversal of men assaulting women in romance novels but this book has a woman RAPING A MAN AND THEN THEY END UP TOGETHER?!?!?!I mean, from a very logical POV I have to admire the subject matter, the original take on the tropes. It's dealt with very interestingly, and from a deep character perspective, but I just can't get on board the plot. UGH, made me feel not ok.
Even though this was a reread, it felt like I was reading it for the first time since I only remembered the gist of the story.
It's the only upside of having a terrible memory; I get to experience these books like the first time lol So the way the story begins is...um, interesting.
These two only had heart-eyes for each other and I loved how mean he would act only to go out of his way to accommodate Rowena anyway.
I enjoyed every minute of this story and I'm so happy this book is still one that I love.
Although I found the hero's obsession and possessiveness of the heroine scarily thrilling, I did not feel that it was the beautiful true kind of love.Warning: spoilers...The novel featured rape by both the hero and heroine inflicted to each other and I could not understand how anyone could ever get over that kind of emotional turbulence and find love.
The author played with a unique concept in that it is the heroine who first rapes the hero and although her reasons were not stemmed from power, it seemed like she began to enjoy the feeling of power derived during the act.
The idea of the h raping the H wasn't exactly a turn on for me, but I like the author and decided to give it a whirl.
So glad I did.
The h really had no choice and she was a virgin.
She did not enjoy it and did it only to save her mother.
BUT the H was furious and rightly so.
He set out to pay her back and then some.
(there were no beatings, I can't deal with that).
You could see how they softened toward one another and I loved the ending.
Loved it!! What a great historial romance/bodice ripper! At first I kinda hated Warrick but then I fell in love with him. His smiles were so special, and when he finally said "I love you" I swooned. Rowena was a strong, sweet, loyal h. I really liked her! This book is a prime example that the line between hate and love is very fine. I just simply loved this book! Thank you Danielle so much for the rec <3
Loved that it's a Reversed-Bodice-RipperHawt stud tied chained down for a virginal lady's taking. The end result of their coupling was like a mad bucking bronco ride! Hell yeah!I want me more of these 'medieval femdom'. *jokes*
I love the older Johanna Lindsey books. This especially was one of my favorites. I like the angsty vibe she has in this one.
This book was so un-PC! Slapping women, slapping kids (even if it was an evil kid).
Ide cerita yang super konyol, tragis tapi benar-benar seru melihat pertengkaran, percekcokan dan romansa antara Rowena dan Warrick.Rowena dipaksa oleh Gilbert (kakak tirinya) untuk menikah dengan lord tua bangka bau tanah yg sebentar lagi akan mampus dan memiliki anak darinya.
Rowena gak tega hati dan setelah 3 hari 3 malam, diam-diam dia menyuruh pembantunya untuk membebaskan si tawanan.Warrick yang dendam habis-habisan karena merasa dilecehkan dan dicuri benihnya berhasil menangkap Rowena dan menghukum Rowena sama persis seperti Rowena memperlakukannya dengan rantai.
