https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7640261-sex-at-dawn
Well, I wrote the damned thing. Can I give myself five stars? Everybody thinks their baby is beautiful, right?
Everything is couched in terms of facile jokiness or, even worse, of coy euphemism, so that we have the ghastly prospect of a supposedly serious book about sexuality that can talk about a ‘human female's naughty bits’.The basic argument is that evolutionary psychologists, anthropologists and palaeontologists are conspiring to propagate the ‘lie’ that human beings have evolved to be broadly monogamous.
Instead, their approach is simply to restate their opponents' arguments in the most ludicrously simplistic terms they can, and hope that will stand for a rebuttal.For instance, there is a mountain of evidence suggesting that prehistoric females were in the habit of ‘bartering’ sex, consciously or otherwise, for access to protection and resources supplied by males.
They are still there, if you look for them, and nowhere are they more evident than in the search for the origins of foundations of human sexuality.The standard model, as it's often called, goes something like this: ancient men and women established a pattern of monogamy based on mutual self-interest.
A loveless marriage, a man's roving eye, a woman who cuckolds her husband, serial monogamists, all of these, according to the standard model, result from our attempts to go against our nature.Or is it the other way around?Ryan and Jetha have put together a very compelling argument that the standard model of pre-agricultural human sexuality is not only wrong, but dangerously so.
I found the author's description of several of these types of kinship networks based on common sexual partners very interesting, as well as some of the research comparing primate anatomy and sexual response.However, I had a very hard time getting past the smug, condescending tone of the book.
I also felt that they presented some styles of fictitious kin that work well for small groups (less than 150) as the best for everyone.
I think their work would have been stronger if they had gone for more of a tone, "of there are many different styles, and we should be more open minded".
And "multiple mating" means both males and females having multiple sexual partners at any given time, and it doesn't mean "polygamy" where alpha males get all the girls (such as in the case of gorillas)From the premise that hunter-gatherers shared everything, including food and mates, the authors draw surprising conclusions that pretty much blew my mind.First, they make the question of "are humans inherently selfish?" moot by suggesting that of course human beings can be selfish, but it largely depends on the context, sort of like asking, "Is water gas, liquid, or solid?" They take on Hobbes's grim view that life without government is "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short" point by point and basically proves him dead wrong.If anything, the life of prehistory humans, the authors claim, was the opposite: social, rich, healthy, cooperative, and long.
I have seen grumblings here and there about the book, mostly from religious people who this book will understandably offend.One of the main messages of the book is that monogamy is not natural to either men or women.The authors are two researchers and psychologists, both married.Despite being academics and approaching a variety of very weighty subjects the tone of the book is conversational, even jocular.
You wouldn't know this from reading the book, though, because they repeatedly cherry-pick evidence, and consistently ignore what most practicing scientists would say are the *reasons* they believe this model (hint: it's not because Steven Pinker did a study of dating strategies in college-age students, or whatever).In short: this is pop-science at its worse--it deliberately distorts science for ideological ends; it ignores evidence for rival theories; it presents biased and uncharitable pictures of other *scientists*; and the conclusion it defends seems to be mostly wish-fulfillment.
(I think this is by far the meanest book review I've ever written, if that means anything...)
This is a really well written book that does a great job of confronting titillating issues head on, with honesty and humor and giving us an unflinching look at our sexual history - by which I really mean our primatological history - a look at how we boinked in our pre-agricultural past.From a primatology standpoint, the arguments feel ironclad.
No argument with any of that, and reading about the scientific evidence to support this is fascinating and really enjoyable, especially given the authors' brisk and really engaging style.HOWEVER.The book is clearly making a STRONG argument for polyamory, that monogamy is unnatural and a cause of endless misery, and that the future of human endeavor and satisfaction depends on a frank reckoning with how nature designed us to fuck.
Overrated, mostly unfunny but overly glib, using the same bad logic he accuses the monogamy pushers of, this book which is basically shilling for open relationships vis-a-vis evolutionary psychology is intellectually dishonest AND irritating, which is quite a feat. I can't believe Dan Savage pushed this crap. There are better arguments for new takes on monogamy, open relationships, and polyamory out there - we don't need to cloak them in bad, gender-essentialist "science".
I feel completely cheated...This review is directed more towards people who have already read Sex at Dawn, and to the authors.
I recommended it to everyone, talked about it with everyone, even called it my new bible (not that I put any stock in the old bible – being an Atheist, but you get my meaning).Then I came across a book called Sex at DUSK, by Lynn Saxon, a sort of counter-argument to Sex at Dawn.
Interesting read and lots to think about.What I loved:-Less patriarchal approach to science/sexuality/evolution.-Chapters on bonobos--so important.-Chapters on sexuality as a bonding tool.What I didn't love:-While the argument that culture can poison scientific fact is a valid and awesome one, to rest your entire book on it is problematic.
I would be interested to hear whether these authors consider themselves poly and how that influences their ideas.-To write a book like this, you have to believe your hypotheses fully.
I think a lot of them were on point, but I found that many of them were WAY too narrow.
It's like the tradition has only half-switched over...SEX AT DAWN - Chapter 7.While the last chapter was all about how other cultures have often had a more non-specific view of paternity, this chapter moves on to how mothering has often been less specific as well, with examples about how, in small tribes, maternal duties are shared amongst all the women.It also points out how, in cultures that have insisted on seeing the nuclear family as the only acceptable family unit, horrible dysfunctions often occur.
This book makes one depressed about the human race from agriculture on.
However, it kind of awesomely doesn't make me feel like a slut, proving (through science!) how our anatomy developed and how we, as humans, were made to have sex with many different people.
With chocolate sauce.
Kidding about the chocolate sauce.Really, the book goes over our closest relatives, and then discusses common beliefs about the human race, and proves or disproves some of those beliefs.
A good read, and since it's science, you don't even have to feel bad about getting turned on.
(Not to give anything away, but apparently bonobos are insatiable whores!) The point of Ryan’s point, I guess, is to point out that we humans—as a general rule—commit to monogamous relationships because doing so is socially accepted and expected, but that we may in fact be damaging ourselves and our loved ones by acting in discordance with our innate, biologically-programmed sexual needs.There wasn’t anything I inherently disliked about this book—though the casual language likely meant to foster a ‘connection’ with lay readers leaves something to be desired—I wasn’t interested enough in the subject matter to be swayed by Ryan’s arguments.
(For the record, some of us *cough* figured this out much sooner than others of us.) When it happens like that, it's hard to figure out what "counts," if you care about that sort of thing -- anniversaries, firsts, all those markers of 'real relationshipness.' Luckily, neither of us cares what counts.
Just, sometime over the past five years, we got to The Thing -- The Real Thing -- and that's cool.Except the part where it isn't cool is that there are a lot of other people who care about what counts.
Monogamy might be nice for some people (some of my best friends are monogamists, dontcha know), though more often it looks to me like it makes everyone ashamed and unhappy.
Women want power and money!
Men always want to sleep around!
Evolutionary psychology does not necessarily advocate a return to the 1950s nuclear family, if such a thing ever really existed.
Instead, Sex at Dawn first criticizes the notion of monogamy, by noting that humans are hypersexual by nature and offering examples from anthropology.
They attempt to define hypersexual polygamy trend as part of 'human nature', as quoted several times.
What is 'human nature' anyway?
Some may favor the old nuclear family, some may prefer polygamy, some may switch.
The only meaningful answer to such a question is: It depends." "'Archaeology,' writes Bogucki, 'is very much constrained by what the modern imagination allows in the range of human behavior.' So is evolutionary theory.
Perhaps so many still conclude that sexual monogamy is characteristic of our species' evolutionary past, despite the clear messages inscribed in every man's body and appetites, because this is what they expect and hope to find there." Hear hear!But then the authors go on to make the same types of errors themselves by selectively presenting and interpreting evidence to make THEIR case.
Its critical look at evo-psych theories made it much better than I'd expected and it reviews some interesting modern research.
The first 100 pages intrigued me because of how Christopher Ryan and Cacilda Jetha blended evolutionary psychology, history, and mythology to discuss human sexual relationships.
While I agree with their supposed overarching belief that we need to examine the current state of our sexual relationships, Ryan and Jetha present their supporting information in a muddled, unscientific, and invalid way.The writing style of this book also felt immature.
In an attempt to market their arguments to a general audience, Ryan and Jetha dumb their ideas down to the point where their thoughts come across as condescending dribble.
Now, I agree with the fundamental point they were making here - humans evolved to use sex socially and with many partners, not for monogamy - but their use of science was...shoddy, and high school level writing at best.
You will also find a conspicuous lack of critical thought about the practices which support their theory of natural non-monogamy, whether or not they seem to be any more sensitive to consent than our own culture's norms regarding interpersonal sexuality.
It's a really great eye opener in regards to human nature that counteracts the general tendency of people in America to idealize relationships and monogamy in what can be seen as a relatively unnatural way.
I do realize that as human beings we are not only potentially logical beings with the ability to reason but also very emotional ones as well and that what we happen to know factually or scientifically doesn't necessarily mean that it can always be applied in place of our instinctual-from-the-gut-feelings, but I just think this is an amazing supply of information for anyone who's interested in the concepts behind monogamy and human sexuality.
Đây có phải là một chế độ thực sự khoa học, là bước tiến hóa tất yếu của loài người văn minh (vốn là một loài linh trưởng, chỉ khác là phát triển ở mức độ cao hơn về đầu óc) hay là một sai lầm cơ bản về mặt sinh học cũng như xã hội ???
Ryan và Jethá không hề cổ vũ cho lối sống buông thả hay xác tín về việc con người hiện đại cần phải làm gì với vấn đề tình dục.
Phenomenal mind opening book about the true origins of our societies typical view of sex and monogamy.
And that we as a people need to have the courage and strength to think for ourselves and to continually question and learn for ourselves.
The book also clearly shows that believing and living as we have been conditioned too by religion and other facets of a society rather than by looking for the truth does a massive amount of damage not only to society as a whole but to its individual members.
One needs to only look around to see that this is true.
At times the argument veers into gender essentialism; at other times there's a bit of ultra vires crypto-mccarthyism (marxism apparently did get something wrong about "human nature" after all, despite the critique otherwise presented of evopsych's sophomoric economics 101 assumptions); and at still others, toward the end, the tone shifts to relationship advice, which might've been necessary to sell the volume to certain audiences--but the desires of those audiences detract from the text.I could've also used more detailed and thorough review of the relevant scientific literature--this is my main complaint.
Instead, it offers compelling evidence and astute observations that for 90% of our 2.5 million years on Earth, humans basically had enjoyable sex with each other all day (multiple partners) and ate nutritious food from the earth without war and without many worries.
In fact, the mechanics of male and female orgasms were likely shaped by these egalitarian, prehistoric foraging societies involving shared sex partners and even group sex.
The book analyzes the peculiarities of our sex organs and compares us to other hominids (most notably chimps and bonobos) and isolated human societies to make a pretty convincing argument about this radical theory of prehistoric life.
With porn of every flavor a mere web search away, swingers on Craigslist, casual bar hook-ups, marriage counselors popping up like mold spores, the chaste Victorian notion of "one love, happily ever after" has taken a severe beating in the past century.If humans had evolved to be monogamous pairs raising children, what authors Christopher Ryan and Cacilda Jetha call the Standard Narrative, then wouldn't these systems work better?
This book shouldn't be taken as a clarion call for men to run out and be cads, but as a means of beginning to find better ways to define our sexuality and work toward a more satisfying future for all.
They also do very little to present a positive argument although to be quite honest by the last section of the book I couldn't tell whether their argument was that humans evolved with a variety of pair-bonding experiences with many of them likely to have been multiple-male/multiple-female or that men are genetically hardwired to cheat - compeletly ignoring any female sexual evolution or conditions.
Ultimately, I felt this book added nothing to the discussion of human evolution or sexuality except point out the authors' uncomfortableness with marriage as an institution and reveal some pretty nasty sexism in the last section of the book.
I realize this is coming from someone who already thinks of science as fascinating and doesn’t need the lighter tone to keep things interesting but honestly, this book has too much attitude.
The authors do a decent job of presenting all the studies available, however, they fail to make any reasonable conclusions where I was looking for one, and make some rather bizarre assumptions where there wasn’t enough evidence to support a theory properly in the first place.The book also seems to advertise itself as a very “radical” look at human sexual behavior.
It offers some interesting cultures, behaviors, and discussions to look further into, but this is definitely not the place where we stop trying to study the human sexual nature.
If monogomy is so easy and natural, then why are we so bad at it?Well, this book explores the possibility that monogomy, for human beings, is not natural.
If we accept the possibility that it is true that monogomy is not natural for us, then what is the "solution?" In all honesty, the book does not delve into that issue.
Instead, it is a primer meant to demonstrate that monogomy it's not natural.
Yet, we, human beings, do those very things.What I have taken away from this book is that monogomy is really hard.
They back up this with physical and behavioral evidence from our close cousins, the chimp and bonobo, and from the information we have about prehistoric human societies and existing hunter-gatherers.
In this world, sexual promiscuity was used primarily as a way to strengthen close-knit community bonds, the authors say.
I was also miffed when, after talking at length about how females are just as promiscuous as males in related apes and pre-ag societies, go on to talk about how to deal with men wanting sexual variety in today's world.
Agriculture, am I right?I think this was a paradigm shifter for me.
While the book ostensibly sets out to prove that we are not meant to be monogamous like gibbons (the only primates to live in nuclear family structures) but rather live in smallish groups like bonobos (and I think it presents its case very well), the real meat of the book for me was how far we've fallen from the original Eden as foragers.
They lay out a good case that we should be comparing ourselves more to the free-loving bonobos rather than our warring chimp cousins.
