https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4929705-a-reliable-wife
disappointed.While there are several places where the glimmer of genius shone through the prose--a turn of phrase or a beautiful sentence--it was by far one of the most self-indulgent, masturbatory works I've ever read.
Four pages of "He wanted?" A convoluted, illogical thought where entire threads are dropped for chapters, then picked up and continued far too late.
He ends the piece by raping his father's wife and waiting to die.The story fluctuates between graphic, wanton sex and self-indulgent babbling about the "way things are."I would not, in any way, recommend the book to anyone else.
They say that men think about sex approximately every seven seconds.
This book mentions sex approximately every seven seconds and seeing the author is male, I no longer question the seven second theory.
Man places an ad in the paper for a reliable wife.
Woman responds with hidden intentions of killing the man slowly with arsenic, making herself a wealthy widow.
However, upon meeting the man's son, her plans may or may not change.
The son addition may shock some readers.
Truitt is always thinking about sex.
Catherine is always thinking about sex.
Moretti is always thinking about sex.
But Tony Moretti is actually Antonio Truitt, Ralph's non-biological son.
You see, when Catherine saw Ralph's ad in the paper and showed it to Antonio it raised all of his old hatred for his father.
(Also, the author is trying to incorporate twists into this sex-filled mess called a novel.) As you can imagine, when Catherine goes to get Antonio lots of fun adultery ensues.
So, Catherine returns to Ralph without his son and then the poisoning commences.A Reliable Wife could've just as easily been titled The Misadventures of Harlots.
In 1907 Catherine Land answers an ad for a “reliable wife” to the wealthy businessman Ralph Truitt.
He knows nothing of her sordid past nor does he have any idea of her plans, which is to leave rural Wisconsin a wealthy widow (in her suitcase is a small blue bottle filled with a nasty substance).
But what gets in the way of her plans (and his, too) is the crux of the story and I couldn’t turn the pages fast enough.
I so, so wanted this to have a happy ending but considering the subject, I wasn’t sure it would.
And how did it end?
Halfway through this book, sick of every character having a wanton, unquenchable libido, I wanted to shout at Goolrick, "If you want some that bad, get some and then come back to the story." It wasn't raunchy or descriptive or anything like that.
The characters were a little too much European-flavored tragic, but I liked that nobody was perfect and I didn't know if good or evil would prevail in them.While Goolrick has some beautiful, poetic moments with his writing, he relies on them too heavily to tell his story instead of just telling the story.
I kindled this book, inspired by a stormy Friday night home alone, hoping for a romantic transportation to a Wisconsin winter a century ago.
Anyway, on it goes, murky pasts and dramatic ongoings, but soon I found myself realizing that this book was a hollow, repetitious, skeletal frame.
There was no particular reason to read each sentence ( although I did, dutifully) Once something got established it was repeated in a way that reminded me of the Lutheran masses of my childhood; the minister would repeat the sentences with slight variations, it was a style appropriate for the ecclesial layout of a point; the device had a hypnotic quality.
At first I was drawn to this book because of it's apparent similarities to the movie, Original Sin, which I happen to love and think is both dark and sexy - hey, it's a guilty pleasure.
I was surprised at some of the twists and turns the story took and I have to say I was pleasantly misled into thinking I knew what was going on.
Sex, love, insanity, and death are all major themes of this novel and I think the author did a fantastic job of weaving them throughout the story.
Cuando terminas de leer un libro como éste, no puedes dejar de preguntarte cómo puedes transmitir todo lo que sientes, en unas pocas palabras. O cómo puedes plasmar las sensaciones que anegan tu alma, sin hacer antes un dibujo de cada palabra; de cada párrafo; de cada página que has pasado, ávida. Sencillamente es imposible. Es como querer retener un puñado de aire en un puño cerrado. Sólo puedo decir que olvides la carátula, que olvides la sinopsis, que olvides estas palabras... y lo leas. Sólo eso.
The opening scene of Ralph Truitt waiting for the train, with the whispering town all around him was so evocative, desperate, and beautiful.
The parts in St. Louis after Catherine Land found Truitt's son dragged on for me.
I don't know: I think it was the son that ruined everything for me.
But the development and evolution of Truitt and Land's relationship held enough tension and suspense in and of itself that it could have been its own book without these other distractions.So I guess in the end I say two stars whenever the son's around, and five for the rest.
This book just made it into my TWISTER HALL OF FAME at www.booksbejeweled.comIf you’re in the mood for a quick easy read, you might want to skip this one.
A Reliable Wife deserves your time to digest, enjoy, study.
Filled with symbolism and theme, it is one of my all time favorite books.
It is a suspenseful, plot twisted story that takes place in the early American 1900’s.
At the heart of the story is a smoldering power of sexuality.
There are three main characters, all motivated by a kind of Victorian sexual lust you don’t see in modern books.
The main problem I had with this book was the length--it could have easily been cut in half had the author not felt the need to repeat and over-elaborate on every little detail.
(If I had read the book versus listened to the audio book, I would have skimmed through pages at a time.) It seemed like the author added pointless storylines to the plot just to pack pages.
The three main characters were borderline nymphomaniacs, which got a little monotonous.
I'm not disputing the fact that the story required a bit of sex, but really, if I had a nickel for every time the author used the word "desire," I'd have a damn lot of money.
It’s like the author relied on sex to make up for a badly executed novel.
The premise of A Reliable Wife sounded intriguing.
A guy puts an ad in for “a reliable wife” and, indeed, gets a wife with a dark past and even darker intentions.
I read this with the intention of reading a dark, gothic novel about two complex people who may or may not fall in love, kill each other, or all of the above.
What I got was two people who moaned and groaned (quite literally) about their past lives, and did I mention the sex?
okay, this book got darker and darker, and basically delivered a gut punch that left me reeling and feeling a little sick!
The twists are classic/familiar ones, but I felt were combined in such a way as to form a unique constellation in this iteration.
For me, this book reminded me somewhat of John Steinbeck's East of Eden at times, and then Gone Girl at other times -- which makes this sound a bit like a schizophrenic book perhaps, but it was such an interesting combination of literary vs.
It is the type of novel that gets under your skin and is difficult to shake for several days.
It was a unique story, the characters were extremely compelling, and the atmosphere was very dark and Gothic.
If this novel was ever made into a movie, I would expect it to be set in perpetual snow and gray fog.
Other reviewers here have set forth the main story here so I won't reiiterate it.
I loved how the characters and their secrets were unpeeled, layer by layer as the novel progressed.
It is 1907 and Ralph Truitt is seeking a wife.
Nor is he as naïve as she had hoped.
What follows is a skillfully told tale of lies and betrayals, of rampant passion and unchecked desires, and occasionally of hope and compassion.
Fierce and original, sensual but never crass, Goolrick spins a remarkable tale that takes the reader from the sophistications of Chicago to a bitterly cold and barren Wisconsin winter to the opium dens and music halls of St. Louis.
the orgianl title was to be A Memory of Desire (which I loved) but will be published under the more mundane A Rleiable Wife.
Beautifully written emotions of loss, love and redemption. The plot is well woven and exciting you take a step into the darkness of the heart and of their mistakes and losses of love and finding of new love and chances of redemption. You really want love to be found and the relationship to work for the two main characters but also you anticipate who will be killed off an enjoyable easy read, atmospheric set in rural Wisconsin 1907 during bitter cold snow.http://more2read.com/?review=a-reliable-wife-by-robert-goolrick
Intense. Atmospheric (has been compared to Wuthering Heights and Rebecca, and I can see that). Sooooo good. Some of the sexual content will not be for everyone, and tipped my own scales in terms of comfort level, but I could not let this story go. Or maybe it couldn't let me go. You just get so consumed by what is going on. I *had* to know how it would end.
A Reliable Wife, by Robert Goolrick, is the story of how Catherine Land answers a rather pathetic sounding classified ad placed by a lonely, tormented rich man.
Automatically, I expected this tale to turn into one of those beautiful, gradual love stories in which Catherine falls in love with Ralph and realizes the dream of having both love and money in her life.
Just in case she missed it.One of the themes of Goolrick's book is that life in Wisconsin was harsh for most people back then, and people went mad and did insane things.
In a word: horrible.It's been awhile since I read a book this bad.
In fact, I may never have read a book this bad.Such things happen.A Reliable Wife starts out slow and never picks up speed.
I'm not going to cite examples because, even though they're on every page of this overlong book, that would mean I'd have to go back and read those passages again and I have no plans on handling A Reliable Wife again until I try and sell it at the used bookstore.
And Antonio and Catherine—By not getting inside their heads in the restaurant scene the author misses a chance to show us something more psychologically interesting about them, but he doesn’t let us know at that point that they were lovers because he wants to surprise us (surprise!
The plot complication that Catherine finally starts to poison Truitt because Antonio is basically blackmailing her is a nice touch, and here the author develops Catherine’s feelings more than he does elsewhere.
So, to have a happy ending the author has to kill off Antonio, who could spoil everything, and then have Truitt forgive Catherine.
This book, the #1 IndieNext list pick for April 2009, is an infinite loop of love turning to hate and hate turning to love and what all that kinetic passion does to the people who experience it.
Both of these people have dark histories that they are trying to forget--or are they?
All that is true in this book is that nothing is quite as it seems.
Yet, in a strange and twisted way, it basically ends in a version of "and they lived happily ever after".
It's a long and crooked path to get to that ending, with many Victorian flourishes along the way.
It's a little bit Michael Lesy's Wisconsin Death Trip (which Goolrick cites as the inspiration), and a lot Cornell Woolrich's Waltz Into Darkness, which inspired the 2001 film Original Sin with Antonio Banderas and Angelina Jolie.
Just cutting to the chase - the storyline is predictable and the ending a little unsettled.
Goolrick's prose is very vivid, but somewhat repetitious at times, and I found myself skimming a little too frequently.
There are no admirable characters here to identify with & care about, so the overall feel of this book is one of voyeurism; watching them wreak havoc on each other & generally make a muck of their lives, and the ending more a trailing off, or closing of the curtain, than a resolution.
As I was reading it, for some reason I kept thinking of Edgar Allan Poe, and the poem of his that came to mind was Annabel Lee. Not that the stories that the poem and this novel tell are particularly related but the cadence of the language and the use of repetition struck me as being similar.
This book would be right at home on a shelf with those ladies' works.The story begins in 1907 in Wisconsin during a viciously cold winter.
This book, you see, is not just a gothic novel, it is a thorough-going bodice-ripper!
If you are up for a psychological thriller/bodice-ripper/tale of possible redemption, this might just be the book for you.It really is a beautifully written novel that maintains the tension throughout.
2 stars: "It was okay."Well written, but I wanted more gothic trappings--more twists and turns, more creaking stairwells, more sinister secrets--but instead, this book is largely about a middle-aged man ruminating on sex.And the last thing the world needs is another book about an aging white dude's sex life!

Miserable people are miserable...and this book is determined to discuss every nuance of that misery, which is almost entirely rooted in abnormally high libido.
It's just SILLY.Truly, I've got nothing against unpleasant people as major players in great books.
The people in A Reliable Wife?
Life's too short.2-star by DNF default -- it's Monday night & I'm too blase to bust out the ragey 1-star.EDIT: As of today, there are 556 copies of this book available on Paperback Swap.
I am so good at only reading when I have time but this time I stayed up all night, I did not want to put it down, I was captivated from the very beginning and that feeling never went away.
Even the ending was as good as the rest of it, and I am convinced that endings are the most difficult part of a book to write.A lonely wealthy man in Wisconsin advertises for "a reliable wife".
The man has plans and reasons of his own for what he is doing.
What can grow out of this beginning?
דווקא בבסיס של העלילה ישנו משהו מעניין, קתרין לנד עונה למודעה בעיתון של גבר עשיר, ראלף טרויט, המחפש אישה אמינה.
ואז היא מתחרטת.מילא הגלישה למקום הנמוך הזה של זונה בתירוצים עלובים, מילא הקשר לרצוח, אבל כל החלק האחרון של הספר כשקתרין חוזרת לביתו של ראלף ומנסה לרצוח אותו באמצעות ארסן, הוא מלודרמה סרת טעם, עיסה דביקה ובלתי ניתנת לעיכול.אז במחשבה שניה, אחרי שכתבתי למעלה מה שכתבתי, באמת מדובר בספר רע ולא סתמי.
הירהורי הגסיסה של ראלף, תהליך הגסיסה שלו ויסורי המצפון של קתרין ממלאים דפים ארוכים בשליש האחרון של הספר.לאיזו מטרה כל התיאורים הללו נכתבים?
I felt conflicted the whole time I was reading it.
I knew going into this that it was going to be a dark story.
I had read a few reviews beforehand and knew that some people thought it was gratuitous and raunchy.
It’s raw, in your face, raunchy, and even creepy at times.
Again…conflicted.The writing is raw and honest and for the most part I really enjoyed it.
(Albeit dark and devoid of any happiness.)I had a hard time deciding what to rate this because of how conflicted I felt.
I really did have a hard time putting it down.
I picked this book up at the library because of Sara Gruen's (author of Water for Elephants) comment on the front cover- "Astonishing, complex, beautifully written, and brilliant." Okay, so I haven't read Water for Elephants yet but it's been highly recommended and I have it on my shelf.
I figured if Sara Gruen was touting this book, it must be pretty good.
I have never read those "dime a dozen" romance novels whose covers feature a beautiful woman in a fancy period dress looking over her shoulder at a dark and broodingly handsome man, but I think I stumbled inadvertently into my first one!
I didn't feel that this book was based on any kind of reality.
