https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43932.Drop_Shot
(Yes you read that correctly).Our protagonist here, Myron Bolitar, is an ex superstar sportsman but now super witted and super smart Sports Agent.
In turn, this makes Myron and Win an uber cool pairing, love them together!Myron is funny, self-deprecating and just all round appealing.
He’s always got witty internal dialogue which makes him, to me, all the more appealing.
Who doesn’t like an attractive and funny guy?!He doesn’t take himself seriously and is the first to poke fun at himself.
Thoughts like these are what made Myron a brilliant detective.”“Myron.
This is good fun reading.
Myron’s got a new client in rising tennis star Duane Richwood who is tearing through the US Open.
When the cops find a link between Duane and Valerie, Myron starts investigating to protect one client and avenge another.This is only the second book by Coben I’ve read, but I intend to check out more of his stuff in the near future.
Like the first book, Deal Breaker, the idea of a former government bad ass turned sports agent who gets embroiled in mysteries could be ridiculous, but Coben keeps it grounded enough to work as well as delivering a well-plotted and entertaining story.
I listened to the audiobook of Drop Shot. It was a fun, entertaining and an easy one to listen to that didn’t require my full focus. I was thoroughly entertained by Myron’s wit, charm and sarcasm. I loved the twist and ending to this mystery that I didn't see coming.
A nice, quick, humorous little murder mystery. Only my second Bolitar book, but I can already say I am looking forward to reading more of the adventures of Myron and Win.
6 Years earlier Alexander Cross was found murdered in similar circumstances & what makes it more poignant is that Alexander was the son of Senator Bradley cross.Myron's interviews cross but he cannot get anywhere , so in comes Frank Ache a nasty character you would rather stay away from mean & cruel he tries to stand over Win & Myron but it doesn't work.
I love the main character, Myron Bolitar but really Win his off sider deserves points for being the best invention ever in this type of book.
Usually the good guys are moral and ethical and thus have a disadvantage against the baddies who have no such restraints.
I like to see the baddies getting their just desserts!
Actually Myron and Win have a lot in common with John Connolly's Charlie Parker and Louis.
I have somehow managed to read this book in one day and I am going to go straight into #3 Fade Away.
This is the second Myron Bolitar book in the series.
I didn't think this one was as good as the first one, but I really liked it anyway.The best part of the book is the witty banter Myron pulls out with just about everybody, even people who want to kill him.
His wonderful sarcasm spikes all throughout the books and I just love that.
This one not so much if you are paying attention.Overall the book was good.
I love this author and will be reading much much more of his works.
Drop shot by Harlan Coben.Let me begin by stating that I like (very much) the lead character, Myron Bolitar.
Myron is at the U.S. Open as an observer, a fan and a sports agent.
Myron begins his own investigation only to discover that another unsolved murder took place 6 years prior to this murder.
Myron has such a fun sense of humor to his thinking even when in the most dire circumstances that I could not help but laugh out loud.
If you've read Coben before...give this book and the Myron Bolitar series try.
Drop Shot is book two in Myron Bolitar series by Harlan Coben.
The readers of Drop Shot will follow the twist and turns in Myron Bolitar investigation into the death of Valerie Simpson.Drop Shot is another excellent read by Harlan Coben.
I am so impressed that Harlan Coben highlights the problems that top sports people have with the community and the people around them.
I love Harlan Coben portrayal of his characters and the way the three main characters entwine with each other throughout Drop Shot.
Drop Shot is well written and research by Harlan Coben.
Myron and Win are back to their detective antics in this second book of the series and they certainly entertain me with their banter. The entire story had my attention trying to figure out which of the characters were IT. Harlan kept the plot stirring until the very end, oh man, you got me!!!! NICE
His formula works wonders as his hero goes about solving mysteries that usually revolve around the professional sports world.First, give your hero an unassuming name like Myron.
This creates a slight chasm between the two, but it never interferes with their relationship for long.I've read a number of these fine mysteries, and have like pretty much all of them.
It's funny that at some point I mentioned that the one character (Win) is a Batman clone in the real world (without the costume, though he seems to have a lot of techno-toys)...
This time around, one character accuses Myron and Win of "playing Batman and Robin" so I guess my analogy was correct.
His portrayal of Myron (conscientious) and Win (borderline Sociopath) is second to none.
Again, I devoured these books (in order, as with all series books) and in record time and found myself waking groggy from lack of sleep thanks to Mr. Coben.P.S. Same review for all the Myron Bolitar novels, if you've read one of my reviews of Bolitar you've read them all.
Well, Mr. Coben as with most series authors, is a master at being consistent from one book to another and delivering a sucker punch to his readers everytime.
Myron Bolitar and Win may be one of my favorite book duos, their relationship is similar to that of Martin Riggs and Roger Murtaugh from the Lethal Weapon Franchise.
Sports agent Myron Bolitar is about to become the advisor for Tennis pro Valerie Simpson, she is killed by an unknown assailant right outside the Tennis stadium during a match.
And Bolitar, along with Win investigates the killing, and also uncovers a connection between the shooting and a 6-year old murder at a nightclub.Very easy to follow, with parts that had me laughing out loud, and a big twist in the end!
Myron Bolitar has a new "hot shot" tennis player signed to his agency when a fallen former teenage female player who is trying to contact Myron is shot dead at the US Open while his coming star, Duane Richwood is moving his way into the semi finals.Needless to say the Ache brothers are connected to this world of threats and try to strong arm Myron.
It boils down to the question of whether Duane is quite who he appears to be on the surface.
Left me vacillating between two and three stars.
Myron is representing the latest wunderkind who looks like he might win the U.S. Open.
He's a young African-American, a street kid with a nebulous background who somehow managed to pick up the skills needed to be not just a tennis pro but a champion.While he is playing a match at the Open, another former wunderkind, a young woman, is shot to death in another part of the sports complex.
But the young female tennis player had seen the two black kids up close.It all becomes a tangled web in which no one is telling the truth and when the young woman is killed six years later at the Open, Myron, who was just about to ink a deal to represent her, becomes involved.
The 2nd book in the Myron Boilitar series by Harlan Coben and for me a rare case. I am normally a big fan of Harlan Coben's work and this series in particular but this book failed to grab me like the others have and I felt that I could only give it a 3 star rating. I have marked so many of his books 4/5 stars which is certainly the case with his latest novel The Stranger but this one did not quite hit the spot. I am sure the next one will be back up there.
Myron Bolitar has just been added to my list of favorite characters. He's right up there with Alex Delaware. I like him more and more with each book I read. Highly recommended!
I don't think I can explain how much I love Harlan Coben writing style.
It was perfectly written with small clues dropped through all book, which made me think who really did it.
It was impossible to be 100% sure who was the murderer until the big reveal yet enough clues were dropped for me to suspect someone and I wasn't wrong (I also wasn't completely right).✧What I like beside the main story, were all those little parts that weren't connected with the murder, but are part of Myron everyday job.
On the other hand Myron sees the grey parts.
Myron Bolitar looks at the world as black and white but truly knows there is gray matter within.
The storyline is easy to follow and I figured out one situation correctly before the end of the book (clever me 😎).
The skills between Win and Myron could almost kill a person by just looking at them.
With Myron's sleuthing skills and Win's prowess there is no match for them.
Anyone 18 and over will enjoy this book and the series.
There's graphic details, profane language and pedophilia and murder that could warp the mind of the adolescent or teenage reader.
Same as "Deal Breaker".I'm on to the third book next.Here's hoping.
What a book!Drop Shot is not just a novel with a mystery and story to it..it is more than that...there are relationships, there is betrayal, there are tender moments, there are sacrifices, there is character development..oh there is so much to every novel when it comes to Harlan Coben!I have read all his standalone novels and loved each one of them.
Bolitar is a former star basketball player at Duke and former FBI agent turned sports agent.
Here his recent signee is a rising star in the world of professional tennis.
During one of his matches at the US Open, another potential signee is murdered in the crowd, and Bolitar sets out to investigate.
The investigation takes him into the world of the mob, politicians, and high society, leading to a satisfying resolution.
I enjoyed guessing the murder/mystery up until the end.
Like the first book, a lot of the situations are convenient and the characters are a little larger than life, but overall I enjoyed this a lot.
This second installment in the Myron Bolitar series is another solid entry, though not as riveting as the first book.
Myron's dry wit makes the story more interesting and continues to be the draw for me.
I didn't think Win could get scarier but he pulls out the stops in this story.
There are some tense moments but for the most part, this was more of a puzzler than suspense.
There were several subplots that converged at the end, which kept my interest level high.
I'm hooked on Myron and this series and will be continuing.
My rating for this story is 3.5 stars.
I had misgivings about the first book in this series, and now that I've finished this one, I find myself with more misgivings. It started out great, the action kicked off in a big way, and aside from well, terrible clichés in early chapters, the story soon grabbed me, and built to a wonderful climax. The resolution and immediate aftermath are what fell flat for me, but I'm not certain if that will detract me from reading the next in the series.
I have been looking forward to reading a Myron Bolitar mystery for a while, but this one did not live up to my expectations. The much-vaunted humor was repetitive, and the plot itself just wasn't all that compelling. Sorry, Myron; I really DID want to like you.
Good 2nd entry in the Myron saga. Representing an up-and-coming tennis sensation, Bolitar backtracks a 6 year old murder to explain current events.
Valerie Simpson is a young female tennis star with a troubled past who's now on the verge of a comeback and wants Myron as her agent.
That is, until Valerie is murdered in broad daylight at the U.S. Open and Myron's number one client becomes the number one suspect.Clearing Duane's name should be easy enough.
It seems too clean for him.Myron pries a bit and finds himself prying open the past where six years before, Valerie's fiancee, the son of a senator, was brutally murdered by a juvenile delinquent and a straight-A student was subsequently gunned down on the street in retaliation, his death squandered in bureaucratic files.
Drop Shot is the second book by Harlan Coben featuring Myron Bolitar, a former basketball phenom, now working as a sports agent.
Drop Shot opens with Myron watching his client, tennis star Duane Richwood, make it to the finals of the U.
Former tennis legend, Valerie Simpson, has been trying to get in touch with Myron all day but he's been unable to return her calls.
During the match, a gunshot is heard and Myron finds out that Valerie has been shot dead in the Food Court.The police want to question Duane as a possible suspect because Valerie's phone records show she called his house several times.
Unfortunately I had been unable to get to this book for a couple of weeks and when time allowed me to begin, I did not have the time necesary to invest into it as a quick type read.
This book is part of the Myron Bolitar, about a sports agent who investigates crime of behalf of sports people when they don't want any publicity.
They were both managed by the same agent representative and his father is a senator who seems rather interested in the case.
The Mafia are also interested in the case and he has to fight them and also they are sending people to follow Myron.
Harlan is better known at least in Britain for his stand alone thrillers but this book deserves to be read by a wider audience.
