https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/616590.Independence_
This was a very well written book concerning a large group of strangers in a wagon train. They were headed west to Indipendence Missouri to claim the Oregon territory. Old Hickory wanted to claim it for America and Great Brittan and Russia were also in the race for that promised land.The book was frought with love, parell and adventure. I highly recommend it to all.Be Blessed.Diamond
I found them about a month ago and remembered how I had enjoyed them and since it had been so long, thought it would be like reading new books.
And it is, sort of, after I start reading then I start remembering, some what ;-)Oh, and there are 24 books in the Wagon's West series, not nine, ha I thought I had them all.
It is so unimaginable even thinking what traveling in a covered wagon would be like, now with flying we don't even want to drive places, yet they are going to spend two years traveling to Oregon.
I love books about the west - both American and Canadian. Indepence! is the first book in a long series about eastern Americans moving into the lands beyond the Mississippi. An enjoyable read, fast and mostly historically accurate. The characters are too many to get a good handle on each in one book. I hope to see more character development as the series goes along.
Just arrived from USA through BM.This is the first book of a series of 24 books written by Dana Fuller Ross, the pen name for James Reasoner. This author wrote 5 more huge series based on American historical fiction.Concerning the Wagons West series, this first book is enough for me since we can guess what will happen in the next 23 books.
My parents read - most - of this series when they were being published regularly, and I read a ton of them back in the day, too. I'm rereading the series, as far as I feel the urge to anyway.It's cornily written, extremely sexist - but of course, the west was sexist! the plot on the light side, but I can't help but read it all the same. Looking forward to reading more.
I stumbled across what I thought was a relatively new series and since it was written in my favorite fiction genre and titled after the state that I live in, I picked it up.With a little searching, I came to find out that what I'd purchased brand new was actually a reprint of a series that was printed in the late seventies to late eighties, the "Wagon's West" series by Dana Fuller Ross.
Not only is the series already complete, and not only did I begin reading it out of order, but there are a total of 24 titles in the series with an additional series shooting off from it.
I ran across this book in a used book store and picked it up because I love westerns. Turns out it is the first of a dozen or so books Ross wrote about the settling of the mid and western states. The books can be read as stand alones but they do follow the same few families across the country so if you have the luxury of reading them in order, do. Am now having trouble finding some of them since some are out of print. Good western fare!
I originally read this book series as a teenager and I decided to re-read them now that I'm 40. It took me forever to remember the author name or even the series beyond "Wyoming." It's mostly as I remember it. A little bit Western, a little bit romance, and lot of pioneer gumption. I was so in love with Whip and Cathy; still am. :)I believe I read the entire series before. Not sure if I'll make it through all of them again, but I'm going to see where it takes me...
i read a bunch of the books from this series a long time ago and while i don't remember the writing style as being anything special, they stand out in my memory as books that made the pioneer experience come to life and become more real to me.
Ugh. I'm not sure it qualifies as an historical fiction - lucky if there are six pages of any historical setting/description/explanation. The dialogue is blathering romance novel without the good stuff.
Read this seires years ago and loved them all.
This book read exactly as it said it would. A nice pleasant read. No surprises and I can image the following 20 odd books would read much the same. So I'm going to save myself a lot of expense and consider it done.
The characters feel like old family friends, you follow them from the first wagon train to populate Oregon and their lives.
And for me to care about the characters in a setting like this, is quite something.In this first book, Independence, we meet the first wagon train's occupants who will be travelling for two years from the east coast to the west coast of the United States, still in it's infancy.
There is a level of writing that I rarely see in any book written formerly or since, that captures the level of intimacy that the Wagons West series does so very well.I wholeheartedly recommend Independence as well as the rest of the books.
This is the beginning of a big series of books, telling a story about people who settled the west and then went on to settle other areas, and serve our country in its early days.
The struggles and triumphs in this book are well written, with an infusion of American history and how areas were settled, and some of the challenges between the "New Americans" and the "Old Americans" and how there were good relations and bad relations involved in the settling of America.
These books were written in the 70's, but the story does not get old.

So great to visit with an old friend.
I first read this book back in the 980's when the series was a rage.
Loved it then, and love it now.In the first book, the wagon train leaves from the east and heads toward Independence Missouri.
Sam Brentwood is the leader appointed by President Andrew Jackson.
Early pioneers include Claudia Humphreys (who marries Sam Brentwood when the wagon reach Independence), her sister and brother in law Cathy and Otto Van Ayl (Otto dies in an attack by a gang of felons), and Tonie Mell who is one of my many favorites.
First in a series of historical fiction about the pioneers who worked their way west from the East Coast during the early years of the United States.This book tells the tale of the beginnings of the journey from the East Coast to Independence, which was at that time (1837) the westernmost civilized area. It is not easy as there are folks out there from Russia and England who wanted nothing more than to claim the land in Oregon as their own and would stop at nothing to stop the wagon train.Great beginning to an older series of books!
Independence by Dana Fuller Ross...is a series on how and why folks would travel great and long distance on where folks would want to travel and start a new life back in the 1800's. They would endure great struggles of loss and happiness as on a wagon traveling west. I enjoyed it reading the entire series once and now I'm reading the series again. Enjoy it like I have and still even for the second times!!
I'm a bit late in finding this series but I really enjoyed this book and look forward to the next one. I love American history. I am amazed at the courage folks showed in venturing off into the unknown with all their possessions in a covered wagon. It's a pretty easy read but still, interesting to be reminding of the importance we put on material possessions now.
Loved this series! What a fun way to get perspective on American history. The books are written so you feel you are right there with the characters, experiencing what they are. Naturally there is the family plot to follow as well. Very well written. By the time I finished the first book, I couldn't wait to delve into the next.
Only got 20 pages in. So badly written I am giving up on the whole series. Good thing about this book. Now that it (and the other 4 in the series) is not on my bookshelf I have more room for new books.
May sound somewhat repetitive here but I got hooked on the first book and it was like an addiction.The author shows how the westward movement affected families and individuals while placing them within history itself.
First in a series. Style was clumsy and it was a little "girlie" for a "western". Will probably pass on the remaining books in the series. The premise of the series held interest that went unfulfilled.
loved the whole sieries
I really enjoyed this book. I had a tough time putting it down.
I love westerns... I wish I could have ridden in a wagon train and seen America like it was then!
I remembered why I loved these books so much when I picked this first one up again to read while on vacation. Well developed characters and not overly sappy, a great historical fiction read!
Really enjoyed this and looking forward to the rest of the series!
Fantastic Series! Fiction based on history throughout!
Read this in high school and wanted to read again.
