https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65336.Selected_Poems
An absolutely stunning collection - a poet tells it like it is!And this great writer might have been referring to our ‘public’ though personal reviews here on GR, when in 1955 he wrote:THE PINK LOCUSTA modest flower, resembling a pink sweet-pea, you cannot helpbut admire it until its habits become known.Are we not most of us like that?
It would be too muchif the public pried among the minutiae of our private affairs.Not that we have anything to hide but could THEYstand it?
Of course the world would be  gratified to find outwhat fools we havemade of ourselves.(!)I can’t help it - five HONEST stars, honestly and beautifully come by!
This Is Just to SayI have finishedthe bookby WilliamCarlos Williamsand whichwas edited bya RobertPinskyI am sorryfor it was lovelyand nowit's done
William Carlos Williams frustrates me. I just don't get him, and that makes me mad. He writes stuff like this: "so much dependsupona red wheelbarrowglazed with rainwaterbeside the whitechickens"and I don't know what the hell he's talking about. In my poetry class we spent at least 45 minutes discussing those four stanzas and we still have no idea what the damn poem is even trying to be about. *shakes fist at sky* WILLIAMS! Read for: Modern Poetry
And that is exactly what defines the Imagism Movement, to use language employing the exact, not nearly-exact, but THE EXACT word, without flourishing or decorative ornamental writing.In the second version of Williams' "Young Woman at a Window" we can easily identify some propositions in the imagist manifesto:- In contrast to lyrical poetry, we find a clear, honest and precise description of an image, it can almost be seen as a photograph.
- There are some lines which give a kind of value to the text, "knows nothing of his theft", "who robs her", there is more possible interpretation in this poem than in the second version of it.
All these loose associations led a curious thrust into verse these last days of 2015.
It might prove habit forming.
There is something remarkable to wake from a deep slumber and find traction into verse.
Form was found as I progressed.
Without other cost than breathand the poor soul,carried in the cage of the ribs,chirping shrilly The world of Williams appear to exist as a collection of things.
There doesn't appear to be any greater point.
There is a melody then of thing-ness.
I am quite tempted to now approach his long-form verse.
Poetry stripped of its wreaths and laurels, made sharp, laconic, and painful. At one point, Williams notes how the remains of a shattered cathedral window strewn out on the ground is of greater value than its original form. He is perpetually angry at a static world, complacent in its old age. So he goes out, writes, and smashes everything he sees. My kind of man.

This is what poetry should be - unabashed, symbolic, conversational, creative and reflective of a view mainly outside of oneself in the sense that is has something to cause others to 'go outside', too.
The substance can be weighty, yet Williams is gracious enough to leave most interpretation up to the reader.
Williams has a certain calm that allows him to appreciate things as they are, yet never stops challenging the reader to invent his or her own reality:...
Voices!assaulting the air gaily from all sides.Williams is well-rounded, often seeing the completeness that many ideologies and outlooks ignore.
i dont think ill ever be a bigfan of william carlos williams what kind ofdude does thered wheelbarrowthe kind with a lastname first name thesame as his last name anywayhe didnt only write inimagist adverbscostextra but also jagged modern orneoclassic paintexcised of canvas in his way a real formalist____________Keepers:"Queen Anne's Lace" (view spoiler)[Her body is not so white asanemone petals nor so smooth—norso remote a thing.
It is a field of the wild carrot takingthe field by force; the grassdoes not raise above it.Here is no question of whiteness, white as can be, with a purple moleat the center of each flower.Each flower is a hand's spanof her whiteness.
Whereverhis hand has lain there isa tiny purple blemish.
I have known that cat (p70) and I thrill in the knowledge that you have given in to the need for plums.. (p74). I cannot resist a quiet visit with WCW every once in a while, to celebrate the simply elaborate human condition.
I like these poems, they are long and mostly short, subject specific and place oriented, both plain and flourished. With a gr's wink here is a few stanzas from book three "The Library" from "Paterson."  'A cool of bookswill sometimes lead the mind to librariesof a hot afternoon, if books can be foundcool to the sense to lead the mind away.For there is a wind or ghost of a windin all books echoing the lifethere, a high wind that fills the tubesof the ear until we think we hear a wind,actual' ...

I've always wanted to read Williams... mostly because it cracks me up to no end--imagining his parents sitting there over their cute newborn baby, shaking their heads to each other. In my creative scenario, his dad says, "Nope... no, sir... can't think of a better name..." And the mom offers, "Aww, shucks, just go with William Williams. Nobody'll ever see the kid's name in print, anyway."
Basically, if anybody wants to understand contemporary free verse in America, they should read Whitman first, and Williams second. Williams pioneered the simple, seemingly effortless looking poem that relied on vivid imagery and line breaks as organizational principals.
I don't know if it would have made more sense if I had read it in its entirety, but I'm not interested in finding out.Williams liked to experiment with white space and sentence fragments—he's a contemporary of e e cummings and T.
The book collects selected poems from 1914 to 1962, and I found Charles Tomlinson's introduction to be wordy and almost breathless in tone but informative about Williams and his poetry style, though more useful after I'd read the book than before.My favorite discovery has to be the complete Pictures from Brueghel series.
The poems I've read have all evoked such clear images, even if I'm unfamiliar with the paintings themselves, and Williams's work is no exception.
Remember how in that movie 'Paterson' the guy's girlfriend says: Carlos William Carlos?
There is a bond between the poet and reader expressed by William Carlos Williams:I wanted to write a poemthat you would understand.For what good is it to meif you can't understand it? But you got to try hard --from "January Morning" (XV)
Ah I wanted so badly to enjoy these poems but I found the language dull and the subject matter to be uninteresting. My favorite poem from this collection was "The Red Wheelbarrow', mainly because I had heard it somewhere before and thought it to be beautiful and zen. Maybe I'll give Williams another shot another day.
Definitely a big, huge, gigantic, emphatic NO for me! I put it down, and I did not pick it back up! Who in the world considers this garbage poetry?Sorry, I don't like it, you can read it, it's no good for me!
These poems teach us how to perceive the complexity of reality with wordy eyes.
Read the red wheelbarrow for school.
I wanted to like wcw because writer friends I deeply respect love him but i fucking hated this book for the most part
they taste good to her you can see it by  the way she gives herself to the one half sucked out in her hand comforted a solace of ripe plums seeming to fill the air they taste good to her and there's my title...or one of many...i like the one i've got though...that one...looks good, a solace of ripe plumsonward & upward.update, 9 aug 13, friday afternoon, 4:38 p.m. e.s.t.reading along, marking/noting some favorites, some nice lines, this that the other...these moments in time like the old woman eating plums.a lady stopping to check the nail in her shoe...spring is icummen in--and some have lines topics subjects that are not as defined, not as definitive, a church steeple, or a breast?
Williams is certainly a "vivid" poet, as Octavio Paz described him -- his verse draws clear images in my mind of the America in which he lived -- but not a deeply passionate one, like, say, Hughes or Ferlinghetti.
The poems contained in "Journey to Love" were among my favorites -- 'The Ivy Crown,' 'The Pink Locust,' 'Asphodel.' I also greatly enjoyed the poems contained in "Pictures from Brueghel" and "Paterson." Williams is certainly a good poet, his works have merit in their own right -- they are vivid, fairly clear (though not lucid), and some of his language is very nice -- but he is not among the best of the best in my book.
But, most of all, they are dense.Although not strict in form in some sense, many and most are strict in form in another sense—with regard to rhythm, meter, and imagery.The favorites are here, too: “This is just to say,” “The Red Wheelbarrow,” etc.Also collected here are various poems throughout his writing career; and, they are arranged that way—in chronological order, (with the exception of the end, where excerpts from Paterson precede Pictures from Brueghel.Tomlinson’s introduction becomes a wonderful springboard to the poems providing helpful insight without delaying the reader’s experience with a lengthy dissertation-like article.Please note, though, some poems are extremely dense with metaphor seemingly chasing after metaphor.
I like the raw, Americanness of the book, the sometimes proletarian focus, the restrained yet often brilliant usage of form. In the end though, too much nature poetry. There's nothing I'm more wary of than poetry that romanticizes nature, except maybe love poems that romanticize love and women and men etc...
though it is difficult to say, i think he is my favorite poet. full of scenes from moments of life, straight to the kernal of the thing, sexual at times, american in rhythm and syntax and subject. everday subjects perhaps but not everday in style and philosophy.
I'm hooked. Some wonderful poems, including my new favorite.
This guy knew what poetry was about and almost every one of these poems is like a moment captured in amber. Read it!
best book of poetry. not even close. WCW destroys me.
