https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/639383.The_Asiatics
Prokosch writes a compelling tale of travel across Asia, from the Levant east, even though he had not visited any of the locales he describes.
This is a particularly powerful work for anyone in journalism who has to edit copy filed from all corners of the world, many of which one will never see.
This is not a perfect book, of course; he writes about "Asiatics" as if one could generalize about the vast array of cultures and traditions found across the enormous contintent.
Even so, this is an evocative and poetic work well worth reading.
I was a little uncomfortable with the way the narrator was describing all the Asian people he was meeting in his travels.
Something about it was a little stereotypical and condescending.
By the end, though, there were other things about the book that were bothering me.
Like the way the narrator was traveling all over Asia, but kept bumping into the same people.
And how he had no money, but was easily and frequently provided for by wealthy people he met.
When are travels ever like that?
I didn't hate the book, but thought it mediocre at best.
The blurb from Camus on the back of the book describes this book as sensual and I would have to agree, sensual and cruel at least in its description of people.
None of the problems of travel seem to bother the narrator and he usefully keeps running into familiar non-Asians throughout his trip from Beirut to China.
Not an enjoyable read in its tiresome narrative, its vague travel descriptions, or its general assumptions about humanity.
Last time I take book recommendations from Camus, Thomas Mann, and Andre Gide (all who praise the book).
This is book is very trippy. Imagined asia from 1930s america, evokes some actual trips i've taken in asia, as if remembered through an opium haze. Not sure if it would be politically correct, these days. Sort of a counterpoint to Kafka's Amerika.
From page 65, he was remembering this young woman he met briefly, and this is short thought on memory“Memory: a miraculous and omnipotent thing, if you only stop to think about it.
“What is really touching, I thought, as I watched Hamadullah disappearing in his rickshaw, is to observe how life affects human beings; how by nature man strives toward something he does not quite comprehend, how he reinterprets each intensity through which he passes into terms of the eternal; in short, his endless desire for the beautiful.
I picked this book up second-hand and read it over 30 years ago without knowing anything about itI found it an interesting and inventive "travel" book, by an American armchair tourist out to "explore" the Middle East and Indian Subcontinent in the mid-1930s.
It's the thing hiding inside that gives us shivers." (p.126) "We're all Asiatics, we're lost, the race is dying...." Thus the title takes on new meaning if you read the book to the end.
Afraid of life, afraid of death, of Europe, the mountains and the sea, of God.....of any sort of reality." (p.258) Since Prokosch never met the real Asia, his entire book is a reflection of pictures gleaned from other, also Orientalist writers or purely from his imagination.
THE ASIATICS is a vehicle for his thoughts on life, on his personal quest for understanding and that is the only reason you might read it, though it is an adventure tale too.
I just couldn't finish it (gasp!) The dated writing, the stereotypes, the general mopiness of it. This was one of our book club books fetched from an Oprah magazine interviewers suggestion. I've said it before and I'll say it again... I HATE oprah books (even though it technically isn't.) I had to order it online due to the fact that it is out of print. Even our library didn't have it. Well guess what?! They do now as I'm givin' it to them.
Couldnt make it past page 75
Though the book was considered a masterpiece by Gide, Mann, and Camus when it was published in 1935, The Asiatics doesn't look so daring eighty years later with its covert (?) gay subtext and overt misanthropy.
Although I would say the writing is pretty good; it's in its ridiculous coincidences and indefensible judgments of Asians and an Asia that Prokosch never visited where it fails to deliver.
I suppose in its day it resonated with a world weary intelligentsia (primarily European, of course) who felt that humankind was circling the drain, and events in Europe were reinforcing that belief.
I read this book with the expectation that it is in the same league as some of the travelogues from the same period. It is quite different from those. It is a fictional travelogue. It is fast paced, but sometimes very cliched. Perhaps considering the year it was written in, it is a window into how different parts of the world was perceived at that time.
I learnt only recently  that Frederic Prokosch didn't actually travel through all the countries he describes. Neither have I, but his description of Ladakh, in the Himalayas of north-western India matches my recall of 22 years ago."''I believe all of The Asiatics is accurate, geographically and socially speaking,'' he said after the novel's original publication in 1935, when he was 27. ''I've skirmished about a bit in northern Africa and western Asia, and now I'm off to the Balkans, Bukhara and
that Frederic Prokosch didn't actually travel through all the countries he describes.
''I've skirmished about a bit in northern Africa and western Asia, and now I'm off to the Balkans, Bukhara and Samarkand.''The Asiatics is seemingly an autobiography of an American in his twenties exploring the world and thus exploring himself.
Nothing's left, because we never really lived anything, we never rose above the world of objects, we never deep down within us were alive.
When travelling, I find it comforting to read and extract bon mots, words that encapsulate and clarify my ill-formed thoughts.When I came to Indonesia at the tailend of 1987, I brought two books with me, knowing that both would be reread more than once.This classic is one of those.
This book describes a psychological landscape as much as an actual one.
It should be read as fantasy in spite of the realism of it's prose and description.
Prokosch is aiming at the way globalization homogenizes the imperialists and imperialized alike, leading to a spiritually bereft mental landscape.
The stereotypical and xenophobic descriptions of people of Asian cultures reflect the mindset of imperialism and the way it homogenizes individuals and peoples, particularly those with differences.
You run into them everywhere, more so in a modern world getting ever smaller and more generalized as we become global and industrial.
I really appreciated the forward of this book because it gave me a check list of things to watch for and the time in which it was written.
It's brazen in many ways.
I found myself enjoying the book more than half way into and then it just became preposterous.
Sadly this book has taken on a cult following who think they can have a gap year like this, those people need to remember that this is fiction.
Real travel has lot more boring things involved that just don't make people want to follow your footsteps.
Como otros lectores han destacado, me parece que presente una imagen demasiado estereotipada y negativa de las gentes que encuentra: los faquires tienen todos caras de tonto y las indígenas expresiones vacías como cetáceos, con la excepción de algún viejo sabio "cuya cara es un laberinto de arrugas".
Tampoco entiendo la razón de insistir en encontrar la misma gente desde Líbano a Burma, al igual que soltar por todas partes conversaciones sobre la felicidad y el sentido de la vida como si lo primero que se nos ocurre al conocer alguien es sacarle estos temas.
I wasn't sure if I would like this, but to my surprise I really did enjoy it.
It tells of the travels of a young man who is hitchhiking/wandering through Asia and into China.
Descriptions of ethnic peoples aren't quite right (described stereotypically in most instances).
The young man traveling seems to have, on most occasions, the best luck in that strangers often offer him rides and invite him to stay in their homes.
One thing was a bit unrealistic I think; and that was he kept running into people he had made acquaintance with along the way.
Prokosch's narrative is lantern-lit and filled with the spices of a busy Indian marketplace.
And though he never visited any of the places in the book himself, writing the novel as a research fellow at Yale, he lures the reader's gaze onto vibrant paintings of town after town, so real and vividly imagined, one cannot doubt their credulity.
Each town lies like a jewel on the Asiatic landscape waiting for the reader's discovery.
He will make your belly ache for ornate meals and philosophical conversations shared with friends on a Saigon river-bank and your heart will pine for trysts and friendships with acquaintances one can only make by searching an entire continent.
I was attracted to this book because it takes place in the Middle East where the author had never set foot by the time he wrote the book at age 27.
Although the idea of an imaginary travelogue had lots of appeal, I found the book immature and repetitious.
We see the nameless protagonist flitting from country to country, encountering predictable snags and dangers, like kidnapping at the hands of bandits.
Some characters reappear and interact differently with the narrator when they do, but the book didn't really work for me as a coming-of-age story, or as anything, really.
Non escludo di riprenderlo in mano, anzi, con tutta probabilità riproverò a leggerlo, ma non certo per le sue qualità letterarie. Ciò che qui salta agli occhi è l'importanza antropologica di questo romanzo: siamo di fronte a uno di quei casi in cui narratore, protagonista e autore del romanzo confluiscono in un'unica entità: l'occidentale arrapatissimo d'odori d'Asia. Ecco, la mia curiosità antropologica è proprio questa: spiare questa figura una e trina e il suo oriente da cartolina, traboccante di ladri, muezzin, puttane e narghilè.
I bought this book while studying in Egypt, at the American University in Cairo, and I found it to be the perfect complement to the modern landscape of an ancient civilisation. Prokosch tells wild, detailed tales of the narrator's hitchhiking and homestays across "Asia" without he himself ever experiencing them. The piece-wise manner in which he orchestrated this tale leaves us with a seamless work, with impressions of the "Orient" which unfortunately have not changed. A magnificent tour de force that should be required for anyone who hopes to travel as freely as the narrator.
After living in the Middle East for several years, there are sections of this novel that I can completely identify with, which is surprising, since Prokosch wrote this novel based on readings versus personal experience. I got through the novel easily enough and liked most of it. Like other travel novels, it is more about the journey and not the destination, and the narrator of this novel certainly has some fascinating and thought-provoking experiences.
Considering the author never traveled the lands he writes about, nor met any of its inhabitants, this book is more myth than fiction. The prose was engaging and kept me interested and the author has an incredible imagination. What the book does capture is the existentialism that one can feel while traveling across varied landscapes and cultures.
this was kind of a bummer of a book, its sold as a travel book and because its fiction that means its a novel, but it seems like it would be better if it was based on some truth, instead of being straight fiction its just somewhat confused and then you begin to the notice the other faults and the whole thing just kind of failed.thats it
It's like if Eat, Pray, Love was written by an intelligent person.
Nope. I just don't like it.
