https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88873.Messiah
A brilliant (and oddly prescient) satire. With Messiah, Vidal offers a skewering criticism of organized religion, the politics behind it, and its far-reaching ramifications in a manner that is at once humorous, intelligent, and bone-chillingly accurate. While the subtle wit and deadpan snark that characterize Vidal's writing are present in Messiah, a bleak and ominous tone dominates the novel, befitting its narrative. Messiah is a fantastically engaging and smart novel, and had me contemplating its characters and story long after I closed its covers.
If ever there was a reason to take a break from reading what's on the New York Times bestseller list or from current fiction, this book is it.
It's highly satirical, funny in a dark humor sort of way, and makes you appreciate how perceptive this author must have been, considering all of the events coming out of messianic cults over the last few decades.Eugene Luther (which is actually Gore Vidal's real name) has been living in Egypt for the last fifty years under an assumed name.
Messiah is a chronicle of how a popular movement evolves into a major religion during the last 50 years of the twentieth century, told by one of its aging and disillusioned apostles, Eugene Luther.
Much of this is dull and perfunctory, but the intermittent focus on Luther's personal difficulties in balancing his own aspirations with those of his fellow apostles is fascinating.
If Vidal had let up some on his satire of Christianity, and followed the logic of the core story of a man being sucked into the entrails of a false religion, Messiah might have been a really fine novel.
The second novel i read by Gore Vidal after Kalki.He can make you very interesting reading his novel
If someone had not told me that this is a wonderful book, I might well have given up reading it. For the most part, I found this book colourless, not particularly interesting, and lacking in momentum and entertainment value. It was not what I expected from Gore Vidal. Its ending is quite exciting, but I am not sure that it is worth wading through what precedes it.
OK, the first chapter is very heady, but after that the book is just fantastic.
Conforme avanza y se va iniciando la trama se va convirtiendo en aceptable pasando a estar bien más adelante.Hay cierto paralelismo entre el protagonista y el autor del libro que me echa un poco para atrás sobre todo al inicio pero poco a poco deja de ser tan presente.Creo que el libro es mejor que la suma de sus partes o al menos es con lo que me quedo.
The "Messiah" in this novel establishes a new "religion" which looks at death as "...nothing; literally no thing; and since, demonstrably, absence of things is good; death which is no thing is good." Given that, today, choosing death over years of a painful terminal illness is a growing issue (and in at least one state in the USA, mental illness is grouped with terminal illness as a "right to die") this book is oddly prescient.
This book is funny and interesting and not too serious even though I think its overall message that messiahs come along all the time is a serious, valid, important message.
Vidal examines how society and human nature combine to debase and ultimately subvert spiritual inspiration. Bold stuff for the period. Stylistically, aside from a short, pompous section at the beginning that will hurt your head, the body of the book is indistinguishable from something PKD might have written. The story is inventive and solidly constructed, modern and humanist.
In a few years 'Cavesway' is established as a national cult: politicians and millionaires, opportunist bishops, TV tycoons, common people are utterly spellbound by the new Messiah and his message.
Himmel is too ambitious to be second in command, though: his real aim is to take absolute control over the whole business...Cave's message of calm indifference toward the end of life becomes a self-annihilating attitude toward life itself: people should be longing for death, the only escape from sickness, old age, boredom...
I didn't expect this to be a partially dystopian novel but, as it turns out, the solid structural logic of how the events unfold made it a rather depressing read at times, simply because it rang so true.
The book's final third is pretty invigorating, though - every time that I had to put it down I kept thinking about how it would unfold.
Still, it's a worthwhile book from a 29 year old writer who already, at the time, seemed far wiser than nearly all of his contemporaries.
A thinly veiled parallel to the rise of Christianity showing how a powerful public-relations effort, staffed by the requisite missionaries and martyrs, can fashion a worldwide religion out of a simple cult of personality.
It comes complete with an imbued messiah figure, his "holy" family, and a small if fanatical following of original disciples.I personally can't completely relate to people who can't relate to Mr. Vidal, so you might want to take this as less of a review than an encomium.
I will say that I'm far from the only one to whom Messiah remains one of the great iconoclastic works of fiction.
I'm not generally a fan of Vidal--- his early novels were often intriguing, but in the last thirty-odd years of his life he became increasingly pompous, bitter, and a self-described radical whose contempt for the masses and the modern world would've done his great-grandfather (or the Venetian patrician clan he pretended to be somehow related to) proud.
Nonetheless...nonetheless..."Messiah" is proof that Vidal was a talented and pereceptive writer.
As a sci-fi novel--- and as a philosophical novel about the way we should face death and embrace the brevity of life ---"Messiah" is an unexpected find, a small gem of a book.
Very much worth reading.
A many layered allegory on religion, politics, history, religion, power, America, Trump, with layer upon layer to uncover if you have a good sense of history. Aim to read this again in a year or so as I suspect I missed quite a bit.
Interesting story about how religions can form. What starts as a grandiose idea about "how we should think and live" between friends becomes a malignant and uncontrolable institutional force that changes the world...
I was totally absorbed by this book and found it profound and intriguing. Definitely needs another read!!
Even though Gore Vidal was trying to show how silly Christianity is, he hugely missed the point
Jim Jones' handbook?
The story is framed by our narrator, Eugene Luther (Vidal's own unused first names), as he contemplates his role in the rise of Cavesword, the cult/religion/death sentence he helped mastermind, from the vantage point of several decades later whilst living in self-imposed exile in Egypt.
We learn about John Cave, an enigmatic and mysterious man who is able to masterfully hypnotize and manipulate his growing throng of listeners into a new way of thinking and believing -- chiefly, that death is something to strive for, a release from the slavery of consciousness into the true state of man.
This is a curious and sometimes enlightening look into the origins of a new religion that sweeps the world in the age of television, a retelling of the story of early Christianity with a dopier dogma and the aid of technology.
This book shows in modern form what it might have been like, at least from an atheist's perspective (since the hand of God has no role).
I found it a quick, interesting read, not something of great depth or brilliant writing, but intriguing.
The basic premise is as the summary describes, the rise of a death cult.
It grows all over the world and even overtakes the big three religions in its followers and adherents.
Of course the metaphor lies in the fact such religions are more concerned with what happens after death, than they focus on the rewards of life here and now.
I found this book to be a great statement on human weakness and a call to embrace life as it presents itself.
Even more to the point of life, without spoiling the plot, there is a strong theme to define the world through your own eyes and perspective.
I'm a fairly big fan of both Vidals life story, some of his essays (I would like to read more) and definitely a lot of his politics, but when I went to read his novels I found that I wasn't really too ...
His Empire chronicles with Burr and Lincoln et cetera most definitely are good informative books (I am about three quarters through Burr) but they aren't exactly "riveting" or "fun" but rather educational.
It's the rare breed of a novel of ideas by an author who not only has original ideas but can write.
Vidal's oeuvre is a weird mix of historical novels, biographies and campy fantastical stories with Messias being a prominent representative of the latter.John Cave is the messias, a former mortician with the surprising epiphany that life is all about death.
A biography that Vidal later published in real life.
But even Islam isn't able to withstand cavism much longer.
In new editions of cavist scriptures his name is eradicated not withstanding that he was the one to author the original scriptures.
While the novel discusses religious riots and connected tumultuous upheavals, the reader and the writer remain for the most part well away from the fray, tucked away at the top of a Park Avenue penthouse.Having the heretic take refuge in Egypt is something that as it happens works very well in 2012, given the evolution of events there.
The net effect, though, is low impact, given the high stakes discussion of life, death, suicide and afterlife that the Messiah brings to society's attention.
But reading what he has to say about is pretty painless and at least mildly amusing.
I read this book directly after reading Vidal's latest memoir, Point to Point Navigation, and it is interesting to compare the 83 year old Gore Vidal's style and tone in the later book to the style and tone of Messiah's 80 year old narrator, Eugene Luther.
(Eugene Luther, incidentally, being Vidal's own unused other forenames.) I have to say I prefer the older, wiser Vidal to his austere and prolix earlier self.
While I thoroughly enjoyed the prescient plot and scathing satire on religion, capitalism and mass communications in 1950s America, I felt the book was needlessly overlong and that its characters were hollow and unattractive.
Eugene Luther looks back on fifty years of Cavesword and Cavesway, a religion founded as a bizarre death-over-life philosophy by John Cave and deftly sold to a worldwide audience by a savvy and corrupt publicist.
Eugene Luther's unwitting and significant role as one of the founding Cavites begins with a writing assignment and dogs him throughout his life as he witnesses the ushering in of the Cavite era which ultimately invades every world government.
Both briliant and disturbing, the first-person voice of Mr. Luther throughout the book calmy describes how a charismatic man's psychosis developes into a multi-cultural religion and how easy it is to manipulate the faithful into giving up their money and then their lives for the cause.
Vidal's novel is short- just over two hundred pages- but it's lack of sympathetic or vibrant characters makes it an ironically slow read and it personally took me months to get through this book.
Every time I picked it up, I found it gave me a lot to think about- but never once did I find myself turning pages to see what happened next.
Eugene and Iris, the principal characters, are both described as enormously unassuming people and the problem is, they are so retiring they actually come off as fairly bland- which doesn't make for a great read.
Worth checking out if you're a Vidal completist, but probably not for the casual consumer.
Gore Vidal's Messiah provides an enthralling experience that requires one to dismantle much of our innate human conditioning to comprehend in its entirety.
While the subject of death is often one that is considered taboo to reminisce, Vidal perpetuates its importance while obliging the reader to make an attempt to fathom how the doctrine of death could be applied in today's society.
Vidal paints a beautiful picture that very well could occur, and after its publishing, seemingly has occured in the shape of these death cults and other such shenaniganry (albeit not achieving similar megalithic proportions of infamy and following).
For this fault my expiation has been long and my once exuberant pride is now only an ashen phoenix consumed by flames but not quite tumbled into dust, nor re-created in the millenial egg, only a gray shadow in the heart which the touch of a finger of windy fear will turn to dust and air."After the snake-oil salesman retires does s/he regret?
Is he plagued with guilt?
Does fatigue overwhelm the unatoned?
The absurdity of a present in which G.W. Bush now paints terrier portraits while Khalid Sheik Mohammed designs vacuum cleaners in a detention (torture) center.
Both men find their therapy as an abstraction of their Self.
