https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11250317-the-song-of-achilles
While staying true to Greek legends and the works of Homer, Miller creatively and convincingly fills in the blanks, giving Patroclus a back story that makes perfect sense, and tracing the friendship, and eventual romance, between the two young men in a way that casts a new light on the human side of the Trojan War.I always found Achilles to be an unsympathetic character -- a brat, a bully, a big-headed jerk who knows he's the star player on the team and throws a tantrum if he gets put on the bench.
Reading The Song of Achilles put a new light on this ancient story.
Madeline Miller for sure implanted them deep inside of me, without my consent, and now I'm urging her to withdraw them, or I will not be able to sleep through the night.It took me a month to read this book, as I needed to take multiple breaks during the experience that is ‘‘The Song of Achilles.’’ I was about to curse the lyricism for welling too many emotions inside my body, too often, and therefore thwarting my reaching the ending in less than a month, but then I discovered that it took the author ten years to write this book, so my unreasonable annoyance subsided, ha-ha.
I am pleased to have read this book, because now I can discuss about the book and the two very discussable characters – Achilles and Patroclus – that make this story so formidable.
”We were like gods, at the dawning of the world, and our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.”This book!!!  Gosh I loved this book!!! The moment I read the first page I was already certain of two things:1.) This would become one of my all-time favourites and I’d gush about it like crazy.2.) It wouldn’t only leave me devastated and heartbroken but also sobbing like a little child. Well, both of those things came true, even way earlier than I had initially anticipated. I was
The moment I read the first page I was already certain of two things:1.)	This would become one of my all-time favourites and I’d gush about it like crazy.2.)	It wouldn’t only leave me devastated and heartbroken but also sobbing like a little child.
I mean I knew what Achilles did (I’m a geek remember?) but reading it the way Madeline Miller wrote it?
That boy was one of the kindest and sweetest people I ever read about (tough competition for Lazlo Strange *lol*) and I was so happy Achilles saw this too.
Achilles and Patroclus had such an honest and beautiful relationship, I CAN’T EVEN!!!!
Madeline Miller did what the movie producers of the film Troy (2004) were too cowardly to do; she stayed true to the homosexuality of Homer’s  Iliad rather than writing a censored version of the story which stank of homophobia.
Patroclus wanted to end the war, and Achilles didn’t think the fight was worthy of his name: he wanted a bigger war to fight in.
It could only end in tragedy - "Achilles Laments the Death of Patroclus" 1767.
There would have been no power, and, again, like the film Troy it would have been abysmal.
"Achilles. Who was he if not miraculous, and radiant? Who was he if not destined for fame?" Reading this is like reading Romeo and Juliet. We all know the story. We all know the outcome. We all know that our desperate prayers for someone, anyone to step in and save these characters from themselves will fall on deaf ears. Gods. What a bloody trainwreck. Even though I knew how it was going to end, I was not prepared for how much I cared.This is the story of the fall of Troy. Or rather, a part of
We all know that our desperate prayers for someone, anyone to step in and save these characters from themselves will fall on deaf ears.
More specifically, this is the tale of Achilles and Patroclus.
Miller paints the pages of this book in blood and suffering.
I didn't even like Odysseus and his famous wit, for there was an edge to it in this book that made him seem less charming and more manipulative than I remember.
That said, as much as I disliked these characters, I loved their stories.
Miller took gods and legends and brought them to life within the pages of this book.
Pa-tro-clus.This and this and this.HOW CAN MY HEART BE MENDED AFTER THIS!????Sólo edito esto para decirles que TIENEN QUE LEER ESTE LIBRO OMG. Favorito del año hasta ahora. Lo amo lo amo lo amo y no hago más que pensar en él. Definitivamente lo voy a releer.
Madeline Miller studied Latin and Ancient Greek from Brown University and even more interestingly studied at the Yale School of Drama, specializing in adapting classical tales for a modern audience.
Really, I must confess that my new found love for Achilles, Patroclus, Briseis, Chiron, Odysseus, and even Madeline Miller herself could be the result of those love poison tipped arrows.
Miller puts flesh on these ancient bones, Gods and mortals alike, and brings a freshness to one of our most venerated stories.
Though I resisted, it turns out that Madeline Miller was writing these books for me.
Epic.
Madeline Miller - image from her siteYou might want to dust off your Iliad, as this is a retelling of the story of Achilles, you know, the greatest warrior of his time, from that slightly older work.
As Miller explains on her website, it was added to the myth of Achilles way later, by the Romans) is presented in such glowing terms that we are uncertain if the author is elevating him to the level of Homeric perfection, or we are seeing the externalization of the smitten Patroclus’ achy smitten-ness.
Patroclus is not an epic person, the way Achilles is.
{BR with Anne and McKenna}   Those seconds, half seconds, that the line of our gaze connected, were the only moments in my day that I felt anything at all.    Oh cruel, cruel fate! I had found myself thinking why there was so much heartache. Then I remembered this is Greek mythology. Few things interest me more than the monsters, heroes, gods, semi-gods and creatures of the greek myths. I easily get caught up in reading the fates of the legendary heroes. Achilles, Heracles, Odysseus, Hector, Per
{BR with Anne and McKenna}   Those seconds, half seconds, that the line of our gaze connected, were the only moments in my day that I felt anything at all.
Few things interest me more than the monsters, heroes, gods, semi-gods and creatures of the greek myths.
Achilles, Heracles, Odysseus, Hector, Perseus, Jason, Orpheus...
Madeline Miller's poetic title is simply beautiful to me, and perfectly captures the dreamy contented feel of the book.
He has always been my most beloved mythological hero.
I felt invested in the characters.
There are so many beautiful lines in this book.
ACHILLES, it reads.
And beside it, PATROCLUS.
Can anyone please call my boss and let her know I may not go to work for a week or so?
I need time to recover from this book that m u r d e r e d me.
No kidding, here.
I think getting a Brazilian wax wouldn't have hurt this much.I'm an ugly sobbing mess, running nose and hair pulling included.
Wow. What a-wow!
I have no words.
I can't remember the last time a book made me weep so much.
This is the kind of books I like: zero dull moments, fast-paced
ACHILLES, it reads.
I need time to recover from this book that m u r d e r e d me.
I can't remember the last time a book made me weep so much.
This is the kind of books I like: zero dull moments, fast-paced, character characterization (lol what is this) on point, and stuffed with all the feels and angst a novel is capable of containing.
If you haven't read it already, please do yourself a favor and give it a try.
Favorite book of 2017!A huge thanks goes to my lovely little waffle for recommending it to me.
You were right, I did do love it!
This double meaning is significant as the book retells the story of the Illiad but with a very different focus.
It is significant that the only other show of love by a man in this book is that of Odysseus for Penelope.
That tale is, in its own way, a story of love as Odysseus struggles to return home to Ithaca and to Penelope.
And through Miller’s tale, so too does the Illiad become—finally—a story of love: the love of Achilles and Patroclus and how they each struggled to keep that love alive.
Mi reacción al terminar el libro:
“We were like gods at the dawning of the world, & our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.”  way back I said there was a review of this beautiful book to come and I never did it. So now it's June and finally, finally I am ready to review this book.  deidamia: marry me ach-achilles: in case you haven’t noticed, i’m gay. i’m gay as fuck. i don’t like girls and i don’t want to... like girls. have you ever seen me without patroclus standing right beside me? that’s gay In a
Like, "Madeline Miller twists history to make Achilles gay" or "this is a new take on events" which is just, endlessly funny to me because there's literal, solid evidence Achilles and Patroclus were at least bonded in a way that wasn't considered "typical" for men in Ancient Greece.
That Madeline Miller actually decided to tell the story of Patroclus and Achilles - a story, like many other gay narratives in history, people have tried to erase.
Achilles and Patroclus aside, the other characters were really well written and i liked the small twists on the original story.
when i die and they open me up, they will find this story engraved on my heart. its been nearly 12 hours since i finished this and i still am at a loss for words at the beauty of this book. i dont think i have ever read anything as gorgeous as this and nothing i write will even come close to describing its loveliness. truly, a touching masterpiece. and i will forever be singing its praises until the end of my days.  5 stars
“In the darkness, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood, like a hundred golden urns pouring out the sun.”  I read The Song of Achilles many years ago, before I got into book reviewing, but it always bothered me that I didn’t have a proper review for this beautiful book. I was a little apprehensive about rereading it, because I wasn’t sure if it would hold up and impact me the way it did many years ago. But, friends, this story is
But, friends, this story is still everything.I feel like this is still a hard review to write, because I don’t want to spoil anyone, but I feel like everyone knows how this tragic tale ends.
But if for some reason you do not know the story of Achilles, please stop reading this review, pick up this book immediately, and have your life changed forever.
And The Song of Achilles is Madeline Miller’s love letter to Achilles complete story, and it is an actual masterpiece that is the best reimagining I’ve ever read in my entire life.
“Why would I kill Hector? What has Hector ever done to me?”   Fun Fact of the Day:  I was in a Latin class my freshman year where the teacher mentioned how gay Achilles was every single sentence. She could not bring up these two without mentioning that they were believed to be in a romantic relationship. That's honestly at least half the reason I picked this book up, so thanks, Magistra Vasquez, for being so extra. Can't wait to have you again next year for AP Latin. Can probably wait for the
“Why would I kill Hector?
What has Hector ever done to me?”
I was in a Latin class my freshman year where the teacher mentioned how gay Achilles was every single sentence.
Can't wait to have you again next year for AP Latin.
The Song of Achilles is a romantic retelling of the Illiad.
While these two main characters are well-built and interesting, I didn't feel much emotion.
As the war begins, Patroclus slowly begins to realize and acknowledge Achilles' faults, leading to a steady character change for him.
Both these characters developed so much and were so flawed, yet so interesting.
“ACHILLES, it reads. And beside it, PATROCLUS”  “IN THE DARKNESS, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun” This book was just utterly heartbreaking and breathtaking beautiful. I’m in love with every aspect of it.The end, the end broke me💔! In the best and worst way possible.BR with Khadidja (sorry, I just could wait, had to finish this💗).
Rating: 4.5 stars
Rating: 6* of five, 2012's best read by a mile.It's National Book Lovers Day! A day to bask in the amazing power of books to inform, amuse, educate, and alter our views and viewpoints.This review can now be seen at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud!And how wonderful it is.
“When I die, bury my ashes with this book.”—every person who finished reading The Song of Achilles, ever. “IN THE DARKNESS, two shadows, reaching through the hopeless, heavy dusk. Their hands meet, and light spills in a flood like a hundred golden urns pouring out of the sun.” Blog | Bloglovin’ | Instagram | Tumblr | Twitter
“We were like gods, at the dawning of the world, and our joy was so bright we could see nothing else but the other.” The hype was real with this one guys!
I know the story of Achilles and the Trojan War like the back of my hand.
But that didn’t stop me from being entirely swept away by the epic love story of Achilles and Patroclus.
“Our world was one of Blood, and the honour it won; only cowards did not fight.
Patroclus with his lack of fighting ability, compared with Achilles’ god-like abilities.
That's how it was with The Song of Achilles: I knew the fates of the characters beforehand, but no matter how much I tried to brace myself, the last few chapters still broke my heart in the best possible way.What had Deidameia thought would happen, I wondered, when she had her women dance for me?
I would know him in death, at the end of the world.Madeline Miller retells the Trojan War through Patroclus's point of view.
The best and worst part was that I knew how it was going to end - heck, anyone who has learned about the Trojan War or Achilles knows - but my prior knowledge could not stop the waterfall of tears that flooded my face upon the book's conclusion.
*2.5*DON'T HATE ME.
I know I'm in the minority here, but this book really wasn't my jam.
I think when it comes to ancient history and mythology like this, I prefer to see it rather than read it.
I found the plot to be way too dry and dull, at least for the last 2/3 of the book.
I loved reading about the childhood years of the boys, and their friendship and romance that blossomed.
Oddly enough, I was hoping there would be MORE romance, and I feel like it was lost along the way, right alongside my interest.
The writing, the way that Achilles is described, the first half of this book developing the characters was just absolutely gorgeous.
This book really emphasizes the flaws in characters, which I assume is why this was discussed so much, but it just irritated me that I was expecting a love story and there was actually a lot of underlying conflict between Patroclus and Achilles.
This is more of a war story and the development of individual characters than it is about a love story.
she's still a raging bitch but like......
Madeline Miller says the idea for her novel The Song of Achilles arose from wondering about the extremity of grief Achilles suffers when his closest friend Patroclus dies in the ancient Homeric poem the Iliad.
As in the Iliad, from which Miller has drawn the beginnings of her characters, Achilles loves his friend Patroclus with profound intensity, but in Miller’s take, this love blocks out everyone else in Achilles’s view.
Because, Achilles says, “He is surprising.” No one else finds Patroclus the least bit lovable, at least not until several years into the Trojan War, by which time Patroclus has won many friends through his work in the tent where the wounded are brought and through his kindness to Achilles’s women captives.
It is there that he meets Pelius’s golden haired son, the prince Achilles.
Achilles mother, the sea-nymph Thetus, however, does not like Patroclus, feeling he is unworthy of being the friend of a future god.
But unable to cope with the loss of his best friend, Patroclus soon follows, joining Achilles on Mount Pelion where they spend many idyllic seasons together, as their friendship blossoms into something more, being taught about war, medicine and survival by Chiron.
Achilles is summoned back to Phthia where he learns that war is imminent against Troy.
Madeline Miller managed to transform the essentials of the story of Achilles into a fresh and heart-wrenching examination of love, pride and vanity that does great honor to the mythology that inspired this work of fiction.
You can feel the love and time that Miller poured into this herculean effort to tell a different side of Achilles' story that is oft overlooked by his greater legend as a warrior.
It's flowery without becoming purple prose, and it always served to re-center the romance between Achilles and Patroclus as the central and most beautiful/hopeful aspect of the dangerous world that they lived in.
It's pretty hard to mess up The Iliad, and Madeline Miller's magical narration and unique perspective definitely don't.
There's a relationship between these two characters, particularly Achilles' pride and how Patroclus handles it, that is so ingrained in this epic, it seems strange that the story hasn't been told from this perspective before.The problem, though, with this version is that, from the way Patroclus is portrayed, it's hard to see what draws Achilles to him until the end.
Since the perspective comes from Achilles/Patroclus, it leaves out some majorly important characters: Helen and Hector and Priam and Paris.
4 Stars "He is a weapon, a killer. Do not forget it. You can use a spear as a walking stick, but that will not change its nature.”  Honestly? I've never read the Iliad. I've never seen Troy. (I barely made it through The Odyssey in high school, okay?) So I had no idea what was going to happen, and had only two expectations:It'd be beautiful ✔It'd break my heart  ✔Starting during his childhood, the book revolves around Patroclus as he befriends Achilles, who is fated to be the greatest fighter of
(I barely made it through The Odyssey in high school, okay?) So I had no idea what was going to happen, and had only two expectations:It'd be beautiful ✔️It'd break my heart  ✔️Starting during his childhood, the book revolves around Patroclus as he befriends Achilles, who is fated to be the greatest fighter of all time.
This character development elevated the story to another levelAgain, I haven't read the original.
What was Patroclus' relationship with Achilles' baby-mama about?
Overall A mythological re-telling with an ethereal quality stitched in, even as the final act punches you with well-executed character development and emotions First buddy read with Lucie!
