https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311178.Friday_s_Child
Hero is a generous-hearted but very naïve young girl, aptly called "Kitten" by Sherry and his friends, with really no idea of what is acceptable socially, so she makes all kinds of mistakes in London society; Sherry thinks he can be married to her and continue living his carefree life in pretty much the same way he did before as a single man, and it takes him quite a while to realize that's not workable.
I haven't read this title in a very long time & I'm glad I still love it,as this particular title often gets a bad rap. So let's get a couple of things out of the way.It's light & fluffy. Well of course. This is a criticism often levelled at one of GH's other romances written during WW2,   I think most of GH's fans would be wanting to escape a grim reality, not be even more depressed than they were in real life!It isn't a spoiler to say that the hero, Sherry is extremely selfish & im
I haven't read this title in a very long time & I'm glad I still love it,as this particular title often gets a bad rap.
I think most of GH's fans would be wanting to escape a grim reality, not be even more depressed than they were in real life!It isn't a spoiler to say that the hero, Sherry is extremely selfish & immature - but the plot wouldn't have worked any other way.& Hero (what a name!) is young & silly.
But I do (view spoiler)[ feel very sorry for Mr Tarleton & wish GH had given him his own romance.
Expressions said most often: "But Sherry is my cousin!", "Dashed if I'm not going to help him; friend of mine!", "It's probably that fellow creeping up behind you again...", "Not the thing at all!", "I'll think about the name in a minute, but you know, that Greek thing?!
If you don't think that is cute, I don't know what to tell you, but me, I find it most adorable!Arrived in London, the young couple set about arranging their marriage (and by that I mean a hilarious scene where Sherry consults his friends as to how to get a special license, what do to with Hero in the meantime, etc...), all the while attracting as little attention as possible.
2.5If there weren't so many apologies (the number of times someone apologizes is staggering; I believe Hero missed to apologize she was born), I would love this book a bit more.
Everything is so exaggerated that I wouldn't be able not to.I like the basic premise: after his marriage offer to the Incomparable (yes, capital I) Miss Isabella Milborne is refused, Viscount Sheringham decides he would marry the first woman he sees.
The point of the book is for the Viscount to see how much he fell in love with his wife.
Its period detail is good; my husband says it's witty---and without going to these lengths, I will say that it is very good fun.” (From the book “The Private World of Georgette Heyer” by Jane Aiken Hodge; Random House, APR06)This was written during a time of deprivation and war in London and Ms Heyer’s fans were looking for a way to escape from their tense situation.
The humor and comedic banter in her novels provided them a way to retreat (at least mentally) to a happier place and enjoy the antics and bumble broths of her well-written characters.Friday’s Child is the story of Sherry, Lord Sherington, and Kitten, Hero Wantage, who marry at what seems to be the drop of a hat.
I think of that every time I reread it--I hear the whisper of women's voices at the back of my imagination, talking over every turn in the story, every flash of wit.The basic story is how the hero and the heroine grow up--after they get married on whim.
The more conventional hero and heroine, George, Lord Wrotham, and Miss Isabella Milbanke, being secondary, opposite the inimitable Freddy Fakenham, who so strongly reminds me of Bertie Wooster I wonder if there was some influence there.
(Heyer did admit once to stealing a plot wholesale from Ethel M.
You know, if the two main couples in this novel had both been hit upside the head within the first twenty pages and told not to be such utter twats, the remaining three hundred and fifty pages could have been avoided. Both I, and the tree which died to make this book, would have been an awful lot happier.
Every time I read one of Heyer's extremely enjoyable novels I can't help but think, "Why on earth has this book not been made into a film?
This is perfect material for your audience!" This book is particularly suited for film...
As in the other Heyer novels I have read, I found myself frequently sighing, grinning, or laughing out loud.
It's just pure fun!None of Georgette Heyer's books contain anything offense other than an occasional mild swear word or reference to a dishonorable man who has taken advantage of some naive damsel.
anyone who loves to read and be entertained!
A delightful and funny romp through Regency era EnglandAfter years of hearing the praises of author Georgette Heyer, I could no longer resist the temptation and dove in head first on the recommendation of Heyer enthusiast Vic (Ms. Place) of Jane Austen's World, selecting the author's favorite book Friday's Child.
Friday's Child reads like an expertly paced stage play, and I felt the influence of Heyer's contemporaries in playwrights Noel Coward and George Bernard Shaw in the satirical social commentary and humorous biting dialogues.
It is easy to see why so many Jane Austen fans adore Georgette Heyer as they share in the sisterhood of the 'Gentle Reprove Society' of comedic social satire.
You cannot help but become endeared to such a character!Joining our sweet Hero and the beleaguered Sherry in this adventure are Sherry’s three closest friends – Moe, Larry, and Curly (just kidding, but these three and their antics put one in mind of the Three Stooges!) After Hero, these three cut-ups were my favorite part of the story!
The exchanges between these three are comedic gold, and it warms your heart to see these three bachelors do all in their power to help poor Hero and her dunderhead of a husband!Filled with entertaining entanglements and endearing characters, this Regency romance by Georgette Heyer is quite a diverting lark!
Although I think I actually like Heyer's murder mysteries better, there is no denying how fun her regency romance novels are.Friday's Child centers around the slapdash and feckless Arthur Verelst, Viscount Sherington (aka "Sherry") and his impulsive marriage to childhood friend Hero Wantage.
Hero has always adored Sherry, but knows she has no chance with him in the marriage mart due to his adoration of "The Beauty", Isabella Milborne.
The silly young couple blast through Sherry's money, enjoy partying with Sherry's friends (Gil, George and Ferdy) and generally romp through Regency England without a care in the world.
Such a romp of a book, I dearly love it.
I had a few quibbles with Sherry this time through, behavior which seemed common enough in teen-age boys when I first read it seemed less tolerable now that I have daughters of my own.
This is one of my top 3 Georgette Heyer books.
Highly recommended to anyone who loves Jane Austen and has run out of new books of hers to read, lovers of Regency books, people in need of a smile.
Rumor has it several of her books are being made into either movies or tv productions.
It made me fall in love with Georgette Heyer books all over again and reminded me why I was so fascinated by them.
The way she says "only a little..." to George when asked whether she feels bad when Sherry is dancing with Miss Millborne is so touching!
This is one book in which I also loved the secondary characters a great deal.
Miss Milborne does bear a significant parallel part throughout the book and impacts the story a great deal.
I will say this though: most of their flaws were pretty realistic for a 17 year old girl who married a man she's worshipped all her life and a 20 something spoiled, hot, aristocratic boy who's been encouraged to think of nobody but himself his entire life.Usual cast of amusing supporting characters, but I feel like I've seen them all before, and many of them only pop up as plot devices this time, rather than full fledged characters.
The whole book really feels like it was a prototype for another of her books, The Conveinent Marriage, which is written along sort of the same lines, but is much better done and with much more likeable characters and funnier situations.
I have listened a marvelous broadcast produced by BBC. (It will be available only for the next 25 days.) It showed wonderfully why Georgette Heyer was such a great writer. These ninety minutes were fantastic. It was so funny, so... heyer-ish. I loved it. Thank's for this broadcast I like the book more. Really, 5 stars for the broadcast. As for the book, I must read it again!And it showed why I wish so much to see movie adaptations of Heyer's novels.
You recognise the character types as they appear — the charmingly innocent heroine, the dishonourable but charming villain, the various prototypes for her heroes… Friday’s Child is of the “marriage of convenience” school, in which Lord Sheringham marries a childhood friend, Hero, more or less on a whim to spite his family.
She’s loved him all along, of course, while he is monumentally unaware of having any feelings towards any woman, and certainly doesn’t expect to love his wife (though being a noble Heyer male, he will of course do his duty toward her).As ever, it’s the detail and Heyer’s wit that carry a story that could be formulaic.
Sparkling and full of humor, this Regency romance comedy never fails to bring the biggest smiles, giggles, and sighs.
I loved rereading it with the audio version, which was actually not this MP3 version, but the BBC's radio program dramatized condensed version.Lord Sheringham meant to propose to one girl, mostly to unleash his fortune per his father's will, but a little because he liked her, but she rejected him so he impulsively marries another childhood female friend who is feeling sad about having to go off to be a governess.A comedy of errors leads 'Sherry' to discover the truth about his feelings after a chain of his wife's accidental mishaps and blunders sprinkled amongst the fun of showing her all that London and society have to offer in his own ramshackle way.It's meant to be fun and playful.
I never fail to delight in each re-encounter with Heyer's stories.
This wouldn't be one of my favorite Heyer's but I did enjoy it.
I laughed out loud at parts of it.
I thought it was a bit over long.
By the time I got to the end I was sick of Sherry and his outrage.
He caused most of the problems himself.
George also got on my nerves.
I mean even after she had been in London for some time she still hadn't come to grips with the ways of the ton.
So while I enjoyed it in parts, I won't be rushing to reread it.
She is an orphan who has been reared by an aunt with 3 plain daughters, and whose fate seems to be that of becoming a governess.In planning this marriage Sherry states that, as it is only so he can gain his fortune, Hero (whom he calls Kitten) can spend what she wants for her wardrobe and in furnishing and decorating their newly purchased house.
His 3 friends seem to offer her more guidance than he does.George's pursuit of Isabella is a secondary story and intertwines with Sherry's and Hero's/Kitten's.
About three and a half stars. I felt so sorry for Hero (the improbably named heroine) that it rather damped my enjoyment of the sparkling humor, much of which was provided by a large ensemble cast. Like Karlyne and Kavita one of my favorite bits was Freddy and his Nemesis! But poor Hero...in love with a husband who doesn't love her. Is there any lonelier fate? Content rating: G --a clean read (view spoiler)[In fact it was so clean I kept wondering if Hero and Sherry's marriage was actually consummated. I never did figure that out! (hide spoiler)]
She's adorable because she's so sweet and loving, and while she seems wayyyy too passive at the start, later on she shows a bit of a determined side, not willing to be run roughshod all over by Sherry, who even though she loves, does not know if he would ever love her, since they did get into a marriage of convenience.Supporting characters are primarily Sherry's friends: Lord Wrotham (the brooding, dashing young blade who is madly in love with Isabella Millborne), Ferdy Fakenham, and Mr Gilbert Ringwood.
I did feel this one dragged a bit for me in the middle, too much of naive young Hero making innocent errors and violating the strict rules of the ton, and impetuous, self-centered young Sheringham having to rescue her from her mistakes.
Of course it was all brought about by his selfishness and immaturity, and the plot really hits its stride as he begins to see the error of his ways and grow up a bit!
No spoilers, but the resolution was farcical, fun and very satisfying - others in our group have compared this book to Heyer's Cotillion, and I definitely see the parallels but overall found that story even more satisfying.
This book is a fine example of the idiot plot -- a story which only holds together and runs because many of the characters are idiots.
However, it's also a successful idiot plot.
You know they're acting like dolts but you keep reading anyway.
It parts company so greatly from reality as we know it that you don't so much suspend disbelief as pour it down the garbage disposal, flip the switch, and turn the tap on full blast.If it were not fiction it also would be a fine volume to use as evidence against primogeniture and a hereditary monarchy.
Charming, funny and entertaining. Sherry, Cousin Ferdy, Gil Ringwood and Lord Wrotham had me laughing out loud. I've spent a delightful 4 or 5 days in Georgette Heyer's Regency England, but when I found myself saying things like "vastly diverting" "to no avail" and "it's all a hum" and getting strange looks from acquaintances, I thought it time to turn my reading attention to more recently written novels. At least...for the time being.
I'd almost give this a 5 star rating, just from Ferdy's dialogue about Nemesis, that Greek fellow that follows you around and sneaks up on you when you least expect it. Hilarious!
This was a quick weekend read last weekend, so much fun. The beginning started slowly, but once I hit half way I couldn't put it down, desperate to see how she would work it all out. Heyer is ingenious in this book in the way she makes a naive young woman the only one able to show the dashing Viscount what is wrong with his own behaviour. Seventeen year old Hero ('out of Shakespeare') makes the logical mistake of trying to learn the ways of society from her new husband, Lord Sherringham, always
Seventeen year old Hero ('out of Shakespeare') makes the logical mistake of trying to learn the ways of society from her new husband, Lord Sherringham, always asking herself 'what would Sherry do' or 'what has Sherry said' about this or that, after which she inevitably finds herself in yet another scrape.
When Lord Sherry sees his 'principals' lived out so innocently by Hero to such inappropriate effect, he must finally come face to face with his own character, and of course, learn a little about real love in the process.For teens who like romance, the good thing about Heyer is that she doesn't dwell so much on soppy sentimentalism but provides more entertainment through humour and wit, misunderstandings and 'scrapes', and hilarious characters that genuinely make you laugh.
On my recent Georgette Heyer reading spree, Friday's Child was the first of her books that could not hold my attention, a pity since she wrote such wonderful stories. And I so hate not finishing a book once I started reading it. So, on to the next one.
Friday's Child was Heyer's personal favourite out of all the novels she wrote, and I can see the justice in that.Certainly it is not the sort of romance where you swoon over the hero (who is really the most criminally careless, overgrown child), which perhaps would account for its relative unpopularity among Heyer readers, but damn it if it isn't a fun story, with a particularly colourful set of characters and all the dramatic turns one can expect from a top Heyer novel. I very much enjoyed reading about these crazy kids getting into all sorts of scrapes!
When the young hero of this book, Lord Sherry, offers marriage to the beautiful Miss Milborne, she refuses his suit.
In a fit of pique and plagued by debts – he can’t gain control of his inheritance unless he is married – Sherry offers for Hero, a seventeen-year-old poor cousin of his neighbors.
This comedy of manners and characters is frilly and empty-headed but it’s a pleasure to read.
One of the more interesting facets of this novel is the plentiful and elaborate cant, whenever Sherry’s tiger Jason comes on the scene.
The best gift Heyer could make to the ravaged by war England.
Now that I’ve discovered Georgette Heyer, it’s good to know that she wrote over 25 books that are all set in Regency England.
Like any devoted Austen fan I keep going back to them over and over, but now thanks to Heyer I have plenty to occupy my time in between.
Her books are light reading but for anyone who loves the period they’re filled with rich details about what life was like at the time.
What’s most fun for me about a Heyer novel is her clever use of dialogue and her knack for recreating the frivolous life of the Regency upper class.
