https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10798418-why-we-broke-up
Why We Got Together  by ReynjeDear ‘Why We Broke Up’,It wasn’t that long ago that I thought I would be writing you a break-up letter. A terse, thanks-but-no-thanks, it’s-not-me-it’s-you-now-kindly-get-lost note. I can be acerbic when I’m annoyed and there it is, the admission, the honest truth that I thought you would annoy me.It makes me wonder why I buy books sometimes, whether it’s truthfully the book itself I want or the simple act of acquisition I crave. Is it the words I tell myself I nee
I’d feel guilty for owning a book I didn’t want to read, then assuage it by telling myself it was just that I wasn’t in the mood to read about intellectualised misery or the painful disintegration of a relationship.Until one day, I was.That’s not to say that I liked you from the first page, because I didn’t.
I can’t not like you, you stupid book, because I think of kind of love you even though you stomped on my freaking heart and made me cry in public.
Thinking back to the time when I honestly wanted this book to burst in spontaneous combustion and who gives a damn about the 20 dollars I spent of my hard earned money on this piece of crap?, I can actually understand where all the hatred and deeply rooted annoyance came from.
I fought back the overwhelming feeling, obviously, and I did win, kinda-sorta-not-really, but although I am not clutching it with my wishful fingers or staring at its cover like it just whispered dirty and unknown things in my ear, this book is Why I Smiled, an establishing shot of The Idiot Who Made Assumptions That Weren't The Least Bit Right, a whole box filled with insignificant feelings that I now give back to you, person-who-has-probably-not-read-thus-far.
I feel like I just went through a break up.
Her boyfriend, this different girl's boyfriend, is a jock, and quite clearly from day 1 an asshat and a loser, and yet she dated him and loved him within two weeks of ever knowing him, and it was such a stupid and ludicrous thing for her to do, and that's why we broke up.
We don't really get to know who she is other than two things: she's obsessed with films, arty films, and her entire identity apparently resides in her boyfriend.
But you know, that's why we broke up.
Also I dislike books with extremely static characters.
This breakup story has a nice premise, but the narrator, as written by Daniel Handler (aka Lemony Snicket), is too artsy/quirky/hormonal/annoying for my taste. Her penchant for run-on sentences and pages-long angst-filled paragraphs is hard to appreciate. The dialog is mostly annoying too. It is worth mentioning though, that this book got starred reviews from pretty much every major professional review publication. So I am clearly going against the grain here.
If you think that's neat, you can read an interview with the space's founder on my site here.business card for real estate agent Daniela H_____My parents want me to try to buy an apartment.
Also, what a neat idea for a business card.little menu for Mrs. Dorsey's KitchenThis place has THE MOST AMAZING grilled cheese sandwiches, holy shit.flyer for HackertownI guess I got this at the Maker Faire?
I did not finish this book.Nor, do I have any intention of doing so.I don't pretend to be an expert on Lemony Snicket or whoever.
I didn't like the main characters.
I didn't like how every little thing of every thing someone did had to be wry, sarcastic or overly angsty.
I didn't like um...what's the guy's name?
Something generic like that.
I can't remember anyone's name.But I suppose that doesn't really matter.Because I did NOT finish this book.
Thirty pages worth of complaining?
Thirty pages worth of 'this is why we broke up, bill' (or whatever his name is).
That experience was so much fun and it definitely added to the reasons why I loved it - it was something I shared with a friend.However, this book didn't need that added loveliness for me to give it five stars.
Even though I knew exactly where the plot was going, could even guess a bit of the ending, it still had me excited and intrigued.Finally, the realism of this book.
In a lot of YA novels instalove isn't done on purpose..
I hated them sometimes, but relished in their flaws.I loved this book.
What I do know is that I loved this book.
3.5 stars What happens when an “arty”, “different” kind of girl like Min dates a popular, selfish prick like Ed?
This book is kind of written that way.
It is about a box of Ed Slaterton treasures Min Green collected during the entire course of their relationship.It is a very cute concept with the matching illustrations that made the entire thing interesting.
The book is basically one long letter written by Min to Ed and in it she explains how each token inside the box contributed to the reasons why they broke up.
Once upon a time, I did something that slightly resembles what Min did.
This book was BEAUTIFUL and AMAZING, but something that bothered me was how some of the things Min talked about made me think the book should have been titled  Why We Shouldn't Have Dated in the First Place . You can see how these things about Ed bothered her right from the beginning, but she just went with it anyway. grrrrr.
I did not like this book.
The relationship felt ridiculous and nonsensical, and I spent the entire 375 pages wondering "why did they get together in the first place??" This question was never answered for me.
The lead character, Min, was pretentious and unbearable.
And every time a character said she was great because she was different, I wanted to throw the book across the room.
I hated the "prose", if that's what you call 2-page paragraphs of metaphorical crap that's nearly impossible to follow.
What I'm saying is that I really didn't like this book at all.
My old review was pretty terrible so one of these days I'll rewrite it!
If I actually read the entire book, I'm pretty sure I would have gotten a headache.Now, with the way Min talked...or how the author wrote.
This was the main reason I didn't like this book.
SOMEONE GET ME A PEN SO I CAN SCRIBBLE IN PERIODS!' And by the time I was done with those crazy did-not-even-make-any-sense sentences, I couldn't even remember what I read.
It also didn't help that the ARC was pretty heavy to hold.Thanks Crystal for letting me borrow it; I wish I had liked it, but unfortunately, I couldn't finish it.
This book will make you fall in love and then break up with you without a second glance. I loved it.
0.5⭐WOW. Oh wow. What an astonishingly infuriating... girl (and not the word I’m actually thinking of). He treats her like trash and she.... goes with it. SHE JUST TAKES IT!!! Ohhhh, AND!! Of course she has a best friend who treats her like gold and is madly in love with her but, does she give him a second thought??... that’s right - You guessed it!! Blockhead.😒And the thing is, I would’ve accepted it all—kill me as it might—had there been some kind of a lesson or anything resembling that at the
He treats her like trash and she....
Of course she has a best friend who treats her like gold and is madly in love with her but, does she give him a second thought??...
Blockhead.😒And the thing is, I would’ve accepted it all—kill me as it might—had there been some kind of a lesson or anything resembling that at the end (you know, accountability or ANYTHING) but nothing got sorted (THE WAY IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN!) and that crap of an ending....
What the fuck kinda lesson is that??
I kind of feel bad for her about how it ended but yeah, this wasn't really for me, at all.(I don't think I'm going to write an in-depth review on Why We Broke Up, but if you want one just ask.)Reasons why I didn't like this book at all:I.
I'm sorry but when I read that the relationship lasted for like a month I just couldn't take the book seriously.
I couldn't stand any of the main characters, maybe Al was okay sometimes, but the author made another big mess with Min and her personality.
when i saw that book in the bookstore i really liked how it looked, and the illustrations were amazingit was very tempting to buy, so i did buy it, not expecting for a book with this amazing illustrations and an author like Daniel Handler a.k.a lemony snicket, to be badbut sadly All that glitters is not gold. i had a lot of major issues with this booklike the second person point of view narrating, and the characters who didn't actually feel like humans, they're like a human qualities had been pe

Book #3 for booktubeathon 2017Wowee I'm sad but it's the good kind of sad I think? So many things so many things.1. Ed is the worst2. I love Min3. I have never experienced that kind of heartbreak and break up and I hope I NEVER DO.4. I enjoyed the writing style for the most part even though sometimes it got to be a little too much and I felt my eyes skipping down past to the next part.5. All in all pretty good.
No, the only thing close is losing my virginity to a guy who I had been ‘dating’ (I guess I thought that was what it was) and then having him not call me for like 2 weeks and me not calling him and then him going off and ending up with some slutty girl that wrote a famous blog turned book and discussed having sex with him in weird ass places…and he wasn’t even that good!
Min is writing Ed a letter… that’s what this book is… a break up letter.

No,  Why We Broke Up  is notable simply because it is a character-driven novel of such remarkable talent that it makes you feel for the characters, drop into their skin and walk around in their worlds and although you feel completely like the main character herself, this book can’t help but make you recall your own past, your own first “loves”, your own stupidity, your own mistakes, and your own high school traumas.
I think it’s a no brainer what happens at the end of this book: Min Green and Ed Slaterton break up.
ALL OF THE FIVE STARS!
Okay so, I just wanna start by saying that this is going to be one of those heart felt and emotional reviews, ‘cause i really connected with the story and it really had an impact in my life - sounds dramatic but it did.
I had no intention of reading this book, whatsoever.
I got it because I won a box of books last year and this book just happened to be in it, it was just one of those books that somehow happens to rest upon your shelf.
No biggie.
A certain series of event
This complicated thing, it’s why we stayed together.”When I first started reading this book, I was just looking back on my relationship and thinking exactly what I was telling you ’No wonder we broke up, this is why, of course, it was obvious…’ but then I stumbled upon the quote just mentioned above ‘why we stayed together’ and it just sent me back and made me look at all the good things - because it was not all bad, there were wonderful and beautiful moments in my love story, and that’s the truth.
A very unique read. I enjoyed this for the most part though I found some parts very confusing and hard to understand. The writing and pictures are consistently beautiful.
The letter accompanies a box, filled with "the prizes and debris of this relationship, like the glitter in the gutter when the parade has passed, all the everything and whatnot kicked to the curb." The first items are two bottlecaps, from the Scarpia's Bitter Ale they shared at Min's friend Al's bitter sixteen birthday party (that's the kind of quirksters they are).
But two things really stood out for me: the beautiful and dizzying language with which Min tells their story; and the world that the author creates, one that is so close to ours, but just slightly askew.
This really seems more like an extended poem than prose, and it's a beautiful reading experience.
I loved the premise of this novel.
I know I’ve burned a few of those.
I think I was so excited about the premise of this novel that once I was done reading I felt very underwhelmed.The only reason I kept reading is because I wanted to see why they broke up.
And it was exactly the reason I thought it was going to be.
It could have been genius, but it just wasn’t.The novel was very well written, but Min definitely didn’t seem like a 16 year girl.If I had to describe Why We Broke Up in word word it would be: awkward.
This book was so weird.I sort of liked Why We Broke Up but some of the things in this breakup box confused me.
Oh yeah, this book is about Min, who is the MC, and her breakup box to her ex boyfriend Ed. It contains so many freaking things in it and her explanations as to why she put them in there.
but I'm glad that it's over and that they are through.I'm glad that Ed never found love in his boring life..
I just want to know where she found this magical box and if she could find me the magical purse from Mary Poppins STAT?Overall?
O como convertir el típico chic-lit en una novela épica gracias al estilo tan cuidado del autor. Creo que pocos libros reflejan tan bien lo importante que puede llegar a ser para una persona el primer amor, la primera relación seria.La voz de Minnie y la narración me han encantado, aunque el final es algo precipitado para mi gusto.Muy recomendable :-)!
The ode to all those who loved not wisely but too well and were caught like a deer in headlights by some hackneyed plot-twist, irony, that everyone could see but them.Handler could had written this book just for me.
But not because I identified with his generic and lowest-common-denominator story of heartbreak, but because I am "breaking up" with one of my favorite authors who has released one of the most disappointing works of "modern literature" I've ever had the displeasure of reading.I guess I can start with the positive...
The narrative style is interesting and it seems like he spent some time thinking about the mechanics of it, but ultimately decided to make the reader suspend a certain amount of disbelief.
That is hard because we cannot write anywhere near as fast as we can talk or think.
I always end up forgetting things and you can't very well ask the person to repeat what they just said so you can write it down.The narrative style also presents problems with voice.
For the longest time I thought Min's written voice was a problem, but I actually think it's a strength.
After they broke up Min sends back each of them back to him along with a letter and so the story unspools to the reader.
The story is told through a letter written by our protagonist, Min. I liked the idea how the story was delivered; packed in a box of memories.
And in response to many of the reviews I have to say, it does not remind me of my break up story, for the simple fact that I have never been in love.One thing I'll point out though, if it's the last thing I do: This book is NOT worth what they are charging for it!
