https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/801573.Beasts_in_My_Belfry
Part of the sequence of autobiographical books that begins with My Family and Other Animals. In this one Durrell starts working in London Zoo and somehow manages to resist the temptation to put on a ripped old uniform leaping out from behind the lion enclosure only tell zoo visitors tall stories about how savage and dangerous the lions are. Not a classic in the sense of My Family and Other Animals, but still a pleasant read.
Джери и колоритните животни от зоопаркаЦялото ревю тук: http://knijenpetar.blogspot.com/2015/...
Прочетох първата си книга на Джералд Даръл и мога да кажа, че съм впечатлен.
Живее със семейството си, куп животни, и с голям ентусиазъм приема при себе си животинка след животинка.
Ето какво пише той: „Прекарах всичките години, в които се оформяше характерът, вкопчен в това ми решение с упоритостта на мида патела и влудявах всичките си приятели и роднини с това, че ловях, купувах или внасях у дома всевъзможни живи същества – от маймуни до скромни градински охлюви и от скорпиони до бухали.“ Мечтата на Джери да стане събирач на животни, става все по-неотложна (ако мога така да се изразя).
Той не се двоуми и приема да го подслони вкъщи.
Случаят се оказва по-сложен, защото еленчето съвсем не е бебе и годинките му са повече.
This is a humorous laugh out loud piece of nonfiction. I enjoyed Durrell's descriptions of the human animals as well as those of the zoo inhabitants who populate this short gem of a book.
Durrell joined Whipsnade Zoo as a junior keeper.(also read April 1995)
Няма нищо по-хубаво от лошото време. Но само ако си се въоръжил с промишлено количество кафе, топла завивка и щипка хумор срещу лошото настроение, скрит в книга.Дневната част на този осми март се превърна в един от най-отвратителните дни в годината досега. Срещу гласовете в главата ми обаче имах „Зверове в звънарната ми“ (ИК „Колибри“, 2015), слава на Даръл. http://www.knijno.blogspot.com/2015/0...
Много приятна книжка. По- малко забавна от трилогията за остров Корфу, но пак я прочетох с удоволствие. Обхваща времето на Джералд Даръл като гледач в зоологическа градина. Харесва ми как живо описва животните.
One of my favorite 'animal story authors' right up there with James Herriot.
I greatly admire people like Durrell who, from an early age, was so focused on a potential career; especially a career which was so unusual.
This book summarises his notes from his first job at Whipsnade Zoo where he was able to make his first observations of wild animals, recognise that zoos needed to become breeding grounds for endangered species and determined his life's goal.
An amazing man.His descriptions of the Captain who ran the Zoo was the highlight for me.
The Captain displayed the best of British eccentricities, had naughty reminiscences of his youth, a heart of gold and quite a funny figure.
Что раньше представлял из себя зоопарк? Вернее, то место, где содержали животных? Это не было специально оборудованной площадкой, а звери не демонстрации ради показывались посетителям. В традиционном понимании зоопарки придумал Карл Гагенбек, разработав концепцию, которой ныне все стараются придерживаться. О таком же зоопарке, но собственном, с юных лет мечтал и Джеральд Даррелл, специально находивший разнообразных животных, дабы получить опыт работы с ними.(c) Trounin
This book seemed to have a more biographical voice than the lyrical story-telling of My Family and Other Animals. Even so, it was a lovely read, as Durrell takes us through his experiences as a young zoo keeper.I also thought it was an interesting insight into the evolution of zoos and their importance in our current global environment.If Water for Elephants sparked a curiosity in captive animals, this is your real, analytical reference.
Dva príbehy ma zaujali obzvlášť - okrem zvierat v tejto knihe vystupuje ešte iná hlavná postava - a to riaditeľ Whipsnaderskej Zoo osobne. Kapitola o príprave a jedení štvrtkového kari a ďalšia o sádrovaní labky líške sú tak skvele podané, že starším ženám radím ísť pred čítaním na WC. Ak sa dámy, pocikáte od smiechu, tu je to: ja som vás varovala!
Always a good author to read!
The sort of book that can induce a lasting good mood.
An amusing and informative read about the time Gerald Durrell spent at Whipsnade Zoo as a student keeper.
LOVE Gerald Durrell. This is the first book I've ever read and I just fell in love with his writing and stories about animals and people. Easy to read. Wish there was more!
Nice light read with some up beat animal lover stories. Great first hand depiction of the historical aspects of zoos, what they were about and about those that worked there.
Loved the descriptive storyline with regard to the animals encountered, but found the writing style childlike, and wanted him to get to the point at times.
Напротив, Джералд Даръл остава верен на своята детска мечта и се чувства щастлив, защото помага на безсловесни твари, които понякога могат да обичат своя гледач повече от човешки същества.
Джери изпитва такава искрена привързаност към дивите животни, че се чувства като "заместник на зверовете" цели двайсет и осем години.Още първата му среща с еленчето буди смях, защото колкото авторът повече го обича, толкоз по-силно усеща, че това не е дребно кученце, което може да живее в къща.Джери се отнася със симпатия не само към животните, но и към своите колеги и началници.
Charming, as always.
‘After some weeks’ association with Albert I decided that he did not in any way measure up to the popular estimation of what a lion should be.
Durrell is genially witty about animals and humans and their reactions to each other.
The Durrell's tone is somewhat like Peter Ustinov - clever, bright, surprising.
This was a real joy to read.This book has recently been reissued in digital format in the UK as part of the Bello imprint at Pan Macmillan, the aim of which is to bring lost, out-of-print popular classics to the attention of 21st century readers.
Oще едно неустоимо четиво от големия природозащитник и писател Джералд Даръл.
Сравнявайки собствените си наблюдения не с кого да е, а с древноримския автор на „Естествена история” Плиний Стари, за една година Даръл стига до заключения, които ще оформят целия му по-нататъшен живот.Роден в Индия през 1925 г., Джералд Даръл е прочут като основател на Джърсейския тръст за защита на дивите животни (впоследствие наречен на негово име) и на Джърсейската зоологическа градина.
През 1947 г.
До 1995 г., когато напуска света на живите, Даръл създава общо двайсетина книги, постигнали забележителен успех заради свежата тематика и неподражаемото чувство за хумор.
- Sunday Telegraph"If you looked you would think that his mind was full of beautiful and poetic thoughts...A ball of food would make its appearance at the base of the long neck and would travel upwards with all the majesty of a department store lift.
A satisfied expression would replace the look of thoughtful genius and Peter's lower jaw would recommence its monotonous movement."A loving chronicle of jitter-bugging gnus, singing duets with a bear, stealing eggs to feed the Arctic foxes, practising tiger sniffs...Highly entertaining and informative.
Tales of Durrells's first year as a trainee zookeeper at Whipsnade zoo, one of the first zoos to attempt to provide space and natural living quarters for their animals (a trend which he somewhat surprisingly debunks towards the end of the book).
Written some two decades after his time at Whipsnade (presumably to bridge the gap between the 'family' stories and the 'collecting trip' books), the delightful characterisations - some would say caricatures - of co-workers and animals at the zoo have an unexpected contemporary freshness, even if some of the animal management techniques have evolved substantially since then!
Not his best book, but a nice read.
This book is hilarious and educating, I still start laughing from time to time remembering bits and pieces. Durrell is as wonderful as ever, with insights to animal life and human nature alike. What’s especially great about it is that there are no bugs! I always skipped all the insect containing pages (and there are quite a lot of them…) in all his childhood books, so it’s refreshing to read it page after page. The funniest moments are about the zoo visitors, which make me now very self-conscious every time I visit the zoo.
One of my faves - After the second world war, Durrell was bumming around London and was hired as a zookeeper at Whipsnade.
Each chapter focuses on a different section of the zoo that he worked on, including the strange characters who helped him.
There are a couple of laughs like the kid who thinks a tiger is a zebra or the colonel who bellows and guzzles curries.This book is quite important as it was Durrell's first steps in realising that he could set up his own zo and take it to different levels, namely as a conservation unit, which we all know, he did.
A fantastically witty and enthralling memoir, forcing those already interested in animals to fall even more in love with the 'behind the scenes' nature of conservation work. Durrell's writing is inspiring, humorous and always believable, forming human-like relationships with the animals and describe stories is such detail it is as if you have seen it yourself. Simply a must read for all wildlife enthusiasts.
Delightful! This book is a collection of hilarious anecdotes of Durrell's time as a keeper at Whipsnade Zoo. Durrell's admiration and respect for animals is enchanting. As a naturalist he has wonderful observational skills and as a writer this translates well to paper. The result is a charming book about the wonderful world of animals along with an urgent message to save them. Recommended for anyone who loves animals and enjoys humor.
Wonderful language and powers of description. Gerald Durrell is a true story teller. I think he could pick any subject and make it fascinating. This is the first book by him that I have read, but I will be getting more of his books and I am looking forward to reading more of his work.
I love these Gerald Durrell stories of his life before he opened his Zoo in Jersey. These detailed his first real job, as a zoo keeper at Whipsnade zoo in the 1950's. His introduction to all of the different animal categories, and what drove his desire to open his own zoo.
Another book that might be 5 star but it's been so long since I read it, I'm not sure.
