https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529075.A_Heart_So_White
”Listening is the most dangerous thing of all, listening means knowing, finding out about something and knowing what’s going on, our ears don’t have lids that can instinctively close against the words uttered, they can’t hide from what they sense they’re about to hear, it’s always too late.”Juan is trained to listen to people.
Juan/Javier wants to understand everything, even those mundane things, that the rest of us accept, without thinking about.
I don’t think that Luisa knows that they had a fling because I can’t imagine anyone would feel comfortable with their spouse hanging out with any old flame.
Custardoy intimates that he knows this secret to Juan.
Masterfully intriguing and told using a seductive and challenging narrative, Javier Marias goes from sentence to dazzling sentence that reaches deep within the human psyche to reveal a family's past shrouded in mystery, where questions that are asked leads to unsettling hostilities, all the while exploring themes of love, desire and the good and bad side of marriage.And it's marriage that sits somewhat uncomfortably in the foreground in 'A Heart so White'.
Trying to Learn more of what happened to his father's previous wives, Juan begins to question his own judgements on marriage and becomes increasingly paranoid that his Luisa has been unfaithful while he travels abroad for work.
Η ιστορία μας ξεκινάει με την εξαιρετικά ρεαλιστική περιγραφή στο -μακρινό παρελθόν- της αυτοκτονίας μιας νεαρής γυναίκας που μόλις επέστρεψε απο το γαμήλιο ταξίδι.
Αυτός είναι ο κεντρικός ήρωας και αφηγητής της ιστορία μας.
Μιας καρδιάς που δέχεται να λερωθεί απο αίμα κλεμμένης ηδονής ή παραμένει άσπρη και αγνή με εραστή το θάνατο!Μιας καρδιάς που θα ακούει πάντα ξεκάθαρα τη φωνή της αιματοβαμμένης Λαίδης του Σαίξπηρ να λέει:«Τα χέρια μου έχουν το χρώμα σου· μα ντρέπομαι να 'χω μια καρδιά τόσο άσπρη».
**** Όμως κάπου απροσδιόριστα το τέλος δεν μου έδωσε την πληρότητα που περίμενα.
Juan has recently married another translator, Luisa, and throughout the novel he strives to understand his father's secrets, while also exploring the meaning in the stories, secrets, and silences if his relationships - with Luisa, with his father, with the past.The key to the novel is the title, "A Heart So White," which is taken from Macbeth.
I am trying to avoid telling much of the plot, as much of the power of the novel lies in opening yourself up to being surprised, wanting to hear characters' secrets and dreading them at the same time.
Set in the deeply catholic countries of Spain and Cuba, it argues that too much knowledge between lovers and spouses destroys love.
Too much familiarity, trust and knowledge would thus by default make passion disappear.
It is a very interesting thought that every person, regardless of how much he or she loves and trusts another person, needs a private and secret life, too.
But at the same time, it is disturbing, because humankind also yearns for perfect trust and belonging.
Is there a balance?
Would finding that balance mean happiness?This novel requires a second reading for me to be able to evaluate it properly.
What do I wish to hear?
Am I inclined to return to an unknown place just so I can hear a random conversation complete in my mind?
Do I wish to pause a few seconds longer at the traffic so I can hear the banter in the adjacent car?
Am I willing to take that time?
Am I willing to listen?
A diamond, so sparkling on surface, coal black at its heart.Marías’ says in his novels, there is a constant struggle between the desire to know and the convenience of not knowing.
Since we all are busy living, we attach little importance to the things happened and the words spoken in the past as most of the times we are under the impression that it doesn’t hold the power to change our present or affect our future (not devastatingly at least).
He lives in a world of suspicions, trying to interpret, translate, so he is well defended, everything is in its place as when he returns from a trip and unpacks each thing in its spot, then putting away the suitcase so the trip is forgotten and he can return safely.Marias writes in the purity of eloquence.
Where it has been said that Auster makes the intellect sexy, here Marias makes it complete.The protagonist in this typically fascinating novel by one of my favorite authors lives within a world which is precariously unsafe.
Sembra non conoscere il punto d’arrivo e neppure il peso che i personaggi hanno nella narrazione.
Un cuore così bianco lo ha non l’innocente, ma colui che, ignaro della realtà degli eventi, non ne è stato ancora contagiato.Juan, il protagonista, non vuole conoscere per non essere parte delle colpe degli altri.
Lentamente sarà condotto dalla moglie Luisa alla consapevolezza tramite una indagine psicologica su sé stesso, raccontando la sua vita in modo a volte ossessivo.
Indaga sul senso di colpa, sul segreto e sul peso che deriva dalla sua rivelazione.
A man in a hotel room looking out his open windows, across the esplanade, to a female figure waiting alone.
Well, that woman's adulterous affair that intersects thematically with a friend's search for love (or something like it), his father's three wives, and his own recent marriage.
Our voyeuristic protagonist sees the hand, hears the voice of the man in the next room.
But he also sees his father, or a man in a dating video sent to his friend; and will he also see himself.
Marias'ın ciddi anlamda beyin hücresi olmak istiyorum.En Giriş kısmından sonuna kadar temponun sürekli arttığı bir düşünsel ve edebi şölen.
Büyük konuşuyorum, Mariası sevmeyen ve sevmiyorum diyen bir edebiyat okuru ya edebi anlamda daha olgunlaşmamıştır ya da düşünme eylemini geri plana atmıştır.
Bu kadar övdükten, konu çok kısa olarak içinde bulduğumuz anlarda istemeden kulak misafiri olduğumuz kulak röntgenciliğinin gidebileceği son durum.
Ana karakterimiz bir çevirmen.
Marias o kadar psikanalitik göndermeler dahilinde oluşturuyor ki kitabın akışını, ana karakterinin de çevirmen olması kitabın alt metinlerine inanılmaz hale getiriyor.
Kitapta düşündürecek çok fazla felsefik ve durum yorumlama var.
No, to radi toliko perfidno i znalački da čitalac ne samo da ne pomišlja na “’ajde, više, reci, aman!”, nego i ne primeti ponavljanje, zapravo, jedva ga dočeka.
Moglo bi se reći da mu je snaga u rečima, jer se sve vrti oko prevođenja i tumačenja (sve saznajemo iz prvog lica simultanog prevodioca visokih državnih zvaničnika i međunarodnih institucija), ali mislim da je i to samo još jedan element Marijasovog zavodničnog arsenala u vrlo elegantnom pakovanju.
Kao što ne znam u čemu je fora sa babinim krofnama: isto brašno, ista voda, isto mleko, kvasac, sve, i to još precizno izmereno (na digitalnoj vagi!), a ne ko ona (frtalj i odprilike).
It's just like with a photograph that supposedly freezes and preserves our best memories — what we see is not what it used to be or mean as it is always filtered through the very moment in which the act of seeing actually happens:What takes place is identical to what doesn't take place, what we dismiss or allow to slip by us is identical to what we accept and seize, what we experience identical to what we never try and yet we spend our lives in a process of choosing and rejecting and selecting, in drawing a line to separate these identical things and make of our life a unique story that we can remember and that can be told.A Heart So White is full of beautiful descriptions, like in the scene of filming Berta where the body becomes an instrument without its own will, a puppet in the hands of he who holds the camera — nothing less and nothing more.
Intriguing book.
It is impossible to read at a normal speed, you are forced to slow down as ideas pop up like little cartoon balloons in almost every sentence.
You have to reflect on them, as they seem to remain hovering above the book and only drift away very slowly.
The book does not have much dialogue and is written in a breathless voice.
I cannot even say if I find that tone attractive or not, neither if I like the book very much.
The book is about secrets; secrets kept and secrets revealed.
I do not want to elaborate on the book further.
To concentrate on not concentrating, so that the immersion carries you along at the same level, unvarying, familiar and new, blindly but inexorably toward knowing, yet knowing that if you stop concentrating you will shift focus and then lose your way so then you have to concentrate again on concentrating to regain your position, to feel it again pressing on your back, supporting you, calming you, like a hand on the shoulder.On this, my second Marias novel, I was prepared to be immersed, to search for the right plane, and to listen for the reverberations.
Ma volete mettere il piccolo sforzo di sederci con lui sul divano delle elucubrazioni, in confronto alla fatica dei genitori di tirare su un bambino a forma di ipotesi?Mi permetto di parlare di libri al plurale, perché non è la prima volta che leggo qualcosa di Marìas.
"Listening is the most dangerous thing of all."One of the benefits of a summer birthday is the marginalized chance of being ill on said day.
Today I found myself sick beyond preparation.
It has been a rough week w/ viruses making rounds at work and my own sinuses self-immolating.
That said, I was hoping for a reprieve today.
I have spent the bulk of the week exploring the work of Marias.
Heart So White continues the interrogation of listening which haunts Marias' other novels It is noted how one can't not hear, unlike closing one's eyes.
This is one of the worst books I have ever read.
Its banal insights may just about justify a short story by a teenager; the dialogue is stilted, pretentious and postured; and no interesting events occur - nothing actually happens.Most importantly, the style is pedestrian, repetitive, circumlocutary.
For instance: "Carefully, very carefully (but not that carefully) I crossed the room." So which is it, Marias?
Carefully, very carefully or not that carefully?
And why should I care?Life is too short to read dross like this.
It would be eminently forgetable were it not so infuriating that time spent reading this could be spent more productively - for example, watching paint dry.
O que não sabemos mantém-nos puro e inocente o coração; o que nos é revelado, pode manchar-nos as mãos, e tornar-nos cúmplices, culpados.A importância da linguagem, o dizer e o escutar, como forma de intimidade, de entrega ao outro, "Podemos calar-nos para sempre, mas convencemos-nos de que amamos mais porque contamos segredos, tantas vezes contar parece uma prenda que se dá, a maior prenda que se pode dar, a maior prova de lealdade, de amor e de entrega."As personagens são caracterizadas física e psicologicamente, de uma forma tão perfeita que de todas me enamorei.Juan, o narrador, enquanto nos vai contando a sua história, partilha os seus temores acerca das inevitáveis alterações à sua vida de recém-casado.
there are scenes in this book-- many, many scenes-- that i will probably remember my whole life (bathroom, balcony, meeting of interpreters, post office, museum guard, wow there are a lot)...
people mention henry james and w.g. sebald in their reviews, but i don't really see either of those here (except on a very superficial level (THEY ALL USE LONG SENTENCES))...
mostly it reminds me of milan kundera (though i like this a lot more than kundera)...
ALL THESE PEOPLE ARE BORING.but anyway, my second marias, and it won't be the last.
(i liked Written Lives a lot better, that one had a sense of humor.)

“Le mie mani sono del tuo stesso colore, ma mi vergogno di avere un cuore così bianco”Per quanto ho letto finora, mi pare si possa dedurre che i libri di Marías non poggiano tanto sull’azione quanto sulla riflessione.
Poi, dipendentemente dal libro che state leggendo, potranno essere dieci pagine di una potenza assoluta o estenuanti, di una noia mortale, da mandarti fuori di testa.
Ora, per fortuna, siamo di fronte al primo caso.La scrittura è densa, complessa e accurata, non sempre semplice da seguire ma siamo comunque di fronte ad una delle sue opere più “leggibili”.E’ la storia di Juan e Luisa, di Ranz e le sue tre mogli, di Berta e Bill.
Gözü yoruyor, aslında 250 değil belki çok daha fazla okuyorsunuz ama ilerleyemiyorsunuz bu sizi demotive edebiliyor.Diğer noktaysa; kitabın ortalarında, anlatıcımız Juan'ın 8 haftalık Amerika seyahatinde konakladığı evin sahibi Berta'nın Bill ya da Nick herneyse ile yaşadığı sıradışı ilişkiyi fazlasıyla uzatması oldu.
Kitabın sonuna kadar bir şekilde bir yerlerden kurguya yediriliceğini bekledim fakat ana hikayeye büyük hizmeti olmamasına karşın neden bu kadar uzun tutulduğunu anlayamadım.
Belki bu uzun bölümden bambaşka bir hikaye çıkarılabilinir başka bir kitabın konusu olabilirdi.
"دست های من همرنگ تو هستند اما شرم دارم از داشتن قلبی به این سپیدی"مکبث، شکسپیردر این کتاب سخن از "زبان" است، زبان تن و اشاره، زبان گفتاری و کلمات، زبان موسیقی و حتی زبان بصری و تابلو ها، در کنار ماجرای پر کشش رمان راوی با سوالهایی که مطرح کرده و افکاری که به نگارش در آورده است مطالبی فراتر از رمان بیان می کند.
پر از افسوس و فرصت های از دست رفته ایم و مملو از تایید ها و تاکید ها، اما وافعیت این است که هیچ چیزی تایید نشده و همه چیز پیوسته در حال از دست رفتن است.
Y quién sabe, quizá ya era ficción en nuestras mentes.También va del matrimonio, no solo de la relación de pareja, no, sino del matrimonio como tal, de la relación de un hijo con su padre y de un padre con su hijo, de un esposo con su esposa y con una amiga que vive del otro lado del Atlántico, de esas “relaciones” que arrastramos desde la infancia, de los amores de infancia y la delicadeza de una nuca de no envejecer y seguir siendo bella.Desde que leyera Los dominios del lobo he sentido una fascinación fenomenal por Marías, pues creo que es una de las sumas literarias que mejor conjuga el saber escribir/contar una historia con maestría, cómo aprovechar el español en todas las direcciones posibles.
Quello che veramente importa è la riflessione.”Ed è forse questo che ci spinge a leggere romanzi e articoli e a vedere film, la ricerca dell'analogia, del simbolo, la ricerca del riconoscimento, non della conoscenza.”Rivelare un segreto significa rendere partecipi della propria colpa?Ed è ugualmente colpevole chi istiga sussurrando alle spalle parole che spingono a compiere atti imperdonabili?Il tuo cuore sarà ancora così bianco dopo aver saputo?Ascoltare, sapere...niente sarà come prima...--------------------------------Settembre 2014♦ Impressioni di settembre ed appunti presi durante la lettura- Viaggio tra le metafore…♡ Voce del verbo “raccontare” “ Non ho voluto sapere, ma ho saputo che una delle bambine, quando non era più bambina ed era appena tornata dal viaggio di nozze, andò in bagno, si mise davanti allo specchio, si sbottonò la camicetta, si sfilò il reggiseno e si cercò il cuore con la canna della pistola di suo padre, il quale si trovava in sala da pranzo in compagnia di parte della famiglia e di tre ospiti.”La prima cosa che mi colpisce è un periodare intervallato da poche virgole.
A veces tengo la sensación de que nada de lo que sucede sucede, de que todo ocurrió y a la vez no ha ocurrido, porque nada sucede sin interrupción, nada perdura ni persevera ni se recuerda incesantemente, y hasta la más monótona y rutinaria de las existencias se va anulando y negando a sí misma en su aparente repetición hasta que nada es nada ni nadie es nadie que fueran antes, y la débil rueda del mundo es empujada por desmemoriados que oyen y ven y saben lo que no se dice ni tiene lugar ni es cognoscible ni comprobable....
I enjoyed this a lot, but it is not an easy book to summarise. Loosely it is a book about family secrets, communication and relationships, with a long-hidden tragedy at its core, and focuses on a son's attempts to understand his father's past and come to terms with the psychological effects of his recent marriage, written in a rich language with a lot of sudden changes of focus, and occasional repetitions. Trying to break it down like that doesn't convey how rewarding the read is.
Ένα ιδιαίτερο βιβλίο μιας και η γραφή του Marías ζητά την προσοχή του αναγνώστη λόγω των μακροσκελών περιόδων, αν έχεις διαβάσει όμως νωρίτερα Cabre αυτό το βιβλίο φαίνεται παιχνιδάκι. Μ' άρεσαν οι φιλοσοφικές απόψεις του σε θέματα όπως ο φόβος και η αποκάλυψη των μυστικών, ο γάμος και δεν ήταν λίγα τα σημεία που υπογράμμισα για να επεξεργαστώ αργότερα ή να τα περάσω στα αποφθέγματα συγγραφέων. Το συστήνω ανεπιφύλακτα!
Utisci koji se izvlače su krajnje subjektivni, mada ovo važi i za mnoge druge romane.
Ovde je to ipak malo više izraženo.
Tu se može očekivati roman o zločinu i ovo se u neku ruku i dobija, mada je ovo krajnje nategnuta izjava.
Da, ima iščekivanja i otkrivanja, ali radnja možda ispada iznenađujuća.
Neki bi možda rekli da se ne dešava mnogo toga.
Roman je pun digresija ali sve su one bitne i na mestu.
Prvi deo knjige je zahtevniji, posle je malo lakše.
Malo više, s vremena na vreme.
Tako da je možda bolje izbegavati ga.
