https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767233.A_Study_of_History_Abridgement_of_Vols_1_6
One of the perennial infirmities of human beings is to ascribe their own failure to forces that are entirely beyond their control. One day, a couple years ago, I was walking to Grand Central Station from my office in Manhattan. Hurrying, as usual, to get to the 6:25 train in time to get a good seat by the window—which meant arriving by 6:18 at the latest—I looked down to find a Toynbee tile lying in the middle of the street. Toynbee tiles are mysterious plaques, pressed into the asphalt in city
(Both Toynbee's Study of History and Spengler's Decline of the West were released right after the conclusion of a world war, when many were searching for explanations of such massive destruction; this undoubtedly helped their sales.)But enough about tiles and Toynbee; what about the book?In A Study of History, Toynbee set out to do what Oswald Spengler attempted in his influential theory of history, The Decline of the West—that is, to explain the rise and fall of human communities.
Born into a family of scholars and intellectuals, Toynbee is, like Spengler, naturally inclined to equate civilization with ‘high’ culture, which leads naturally to elitism.
The sweep of history is laid out and explored, not in a fashion that struggles to stay in step with the intellectual fads of the day ( a la Diamond ) but with depth and passion.My favorite bit so far: It is ...
Can one find fault with the history or the analysis -- of course.
But as a jumping off point to the creations of worlds, as an antidote to temporal provincialism (the idea that things now are as they have always been) this book is wonderful.
His work has been largely ignored because it puts the responsibility for the survival of the world squarely on our shoulders.
He's the only historian I know to blend history and psychology, words that repeat throughout his analysis of historical patterns are: soul, choice, despair, I could go on and on.
He shows with clarity and grace how individual human choices coalesce into historical events.
The abridgment of which this is the second volume is comprised of a first volume (abridging the first 6 volumes of his work) and this second volume abridging the seventh to tenth volume.
The two volume abridgment is a way to delve into this man's work in a more humane way.
I have been looking for books like Toynbee's A Study of History since I finished reading it in undergrad.
A Study of History is more at home in a Philosophy or Social Psychology section.
The sheer breadth and depth of Toynbee's analysis dwarfs the offerings one typically finds in General History and is but tangentially related to Historiography.
The book's approach to history is much more philosophical and psychological as Toynbee asserts and then backs up his premise that civilizations have a general trajectory that they all follow.
The similarities Toynbee points to will certainly have the reader leaving with the thought that the divisions within humankind are all artifice.
Insightful overview of history as seen philosophically. It is a work that often comes up when I'm speaking. Clearly has had an impact on me.
But the great histories and historians of World History bring us far more than events of nations, chronicles of the Rise and Fall of Civilizations, or lessons and precedents from the past; they also constitute a fundamental part of World Literature, bringing us great reading experiences and exciting sagas as in Thucydides' "History of the Peloponesian War," in-depth portraits and readings of the character of great men and shapers of the world as in Plutarch's "Parallel Lives" and China's "Records of the Grand Historian" by Si Ma Chen, and deep philosophical and scientific insights into the workings of human society its environment as revealed in the panoramic visions of great Islamic historian Ibn Khaldun, Karl Marx, Oswald Spengler and Sir Arnold Toynbee.


Very interesting book
Good
But it’s less clear that overcoming those challenges is what actually causes the civilization to become successful.
This recognition of non-PC realities probably has contributed to the decline in Toynbee’s reputation, who was apparently once the most famous historian in the world.So, in sum, this book is interesting for history buffs and those trying to form a coherent world historical/philosophical framework, as well as for those interested in the focuses of historians of the past.
This abridgement volume of Toynbee's magnum opus is a book worth reading for those who are eager to understand the history of philosophy in a holistic way.
Toynbee's theory of nature's inertia versus with human creativity to create an antagonistic yet synergistic propagation related closely with the principles of Yin and Yang, and thus this theme reverberated across human's history.He closely examine not only the linear history of civilisation, that is from how a civilisation advances from, say, point A to point B; he also explore the intrinsic factors that drives these advances.
The idea of transfiguration, Toynbee thought, should be replaced against other modes of life (he mentioned of archaism and futurism).
Expert naysayers nitpick at the details of his study, but very few individuals can match Toynbee's theoretical vision of the whole; no philosopher of history can afford to ignore him.Toynbee's initial starting-point, as reflected in the abridged volume of v.1-6, was to study history as the unfolding and evolution of civilizations as they are articulated by concrete human communities according to their understanding of their callings, from within particular material/social conditions (e.g. as opposed to dealing in reductive abstractions such as "nations" or "states", or "Geist" or "the means of production").
That is to say that Toynbee understood that the starting-point for understanding history is to grasp the religious dimension of human striving, and the material and institutional conditions which structure and limit those strivings.
This wasn't what I hoped it would be and I didn't get much further than about a third of the way through.
I was expecting a general overview of human history sufficient for a beginner, but it's much more abstract and uses only a few case studies to argue for general concepts.
Toynbee does look at civilisations but focuses on just a few key models, particularly the Hellenic.Toynbee's writing style is dry, dated, unnecessarily academic, and frighteningly unengaging.
This book is also very strangely moralistic at times.
Toynbee spends a lot of time discussing the sins of various civilisations and even concludes that idolatry in one form or another inevitably causes their collapse.


Here is Toynbee's unique perspective on the history of civilization. Off the top, he defines civilized versus primitive societies quite satisfactorily. He has been criticized for his broad divisions of societies by religion, but the result is fascinating. A precursor to Jared Diamond, Toynbee is best when he discards previous authors as missing the point. He hilariously demonstrates that the period many authors consider to be the acme of the Roman Empire, was actually a signal of the fall of the, larger, pan-Hellenic society. Bravo!
The second best book on understanding history as more than discrete, poorly defined "periods."Toynbee's criticism of historical analysis is spot on, though the model he offers in its place falls short. Carroll Quigley does a better job at delivering on both counts. Still, this is a VERY important work jampacked with compelling information and analysis.Quigley, Toynbee, and Durant are the best I've found in this field.
“Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it." (George Santayana)Though the history could never reduce the uncertainty of the future, there must be something to learn from the rise and fall of 23 civilizations through 5000 years.
A wonderful summary of his multi-volume work. The best combination of history as science, and history as art.
Quite a few clear ideas, too much religious rambling
Interesting ideas that other historians have torn apart. Still, it's a great read, and some of his themes make sense.
Kurt Vonnegut, the late and very great, often name checked this dude and so naturally I had to go see what was what. Kurt has never steered me wrong!
Masterful.
Wat is er met onze civillisatie aan de ahnd? Toynbee geeft een bevredigend antwoord; ook na 9/11
