https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9439303-life
What is most on display in this book is his tremendous interest in music and musicians, not in rock, bands, money and fame - a lot of which he finds a bit of a pain but to be endured because that goes with the job.
(hide spoiler)]Richards also went cold turkey fairly often, not because he wanted to give up drugs but because he had to be clean and without the desperate need for drugs so he could enter various countries and tour with the band.
I used up my nine lives long ago, but here I am. I'm still playing and I'm still rocking and still rolling. And I survived to tell this tale.   Probably the best audiobook I've ever listened to. Actually this is the first and only audiobook I've listened to. It's narrated by Johnny Depp. A Keith Richards biography narrated by Johnny Depp. How cool is that! Mr Keef is no mystery to me. Victor Bockris's celebrated Keith Richards biography and The Rolling Stones : In The Beginning photograph coll
A Keith Richards biography narrated by Johnny Depp.
Victor Bockris's celebrated Keith Richards biography and The Rolling Stones : In The Beginning photograph collection by Bent Rej have a special place on my parent's bookshelf.
The answer is, of course, (view spoiler)[  (hide spoiler)]To say Keith Richards has lived an interesting life would be an understatement.
I opened the door and he didn't even look at me, he walked straight past me, got hold of Mick and said, "Never call me your drummer again." Then he hauled him up by the lapels of my jacket and gave him a right hook.
I’m not a big fan of rock bios, but Richards (along with his writer pal, James Fox), has crafted the best book of its kind that I have ever read.
In the book, Richards downplays this, saying he knew what Anita was like, but then childishly points out how he “had” Marianne Faithful (Jagger’s girlfriend), and then jumped out the window as Mick arrived.
I take Richards on his word regarding Anita, but it’s Jagger, his childhood friend, and what he did, that started the downward spiral between the two bandmates.I could go and on and on about this book.
It really does seem as if Keith Richards is talking to you, sharing all his best anecdotes in his avuncular growl – all the time throwing around such terms as ‘cat’, ‘babe’, ‘bitch’ and so on.
But there is no real tackling of The Peter Pan of Pop, apart from Keith seeming to take glee in Cliff’s run of British hits ending when he decided to record a Jagger/Richards track.Part of the problem with this book losing steam is that I think Richards appreciates that after ‘Start Me Up’, the Stones never produced another great song.
They would hang out in seedy record stores waiting for the next consignment of Blues and Jazz records to arrive from Chicago, listen to them and try to work out how to play them & learn how to write songs like that.
Keith heard and played with a lot of awesome jazz musicians at the Earling and T-Bone Walker (of Chuck Berry’s 50’s band) was one of those.
T-Bone was one of the first to use the double string thing and Keith found it worked for him and became something of a signature to his playing.
then I think you'd find Keith Richards memoir fascinating, too.
He has a great conversational style; listening was fun - kind of like sitting in the living room hearing him tell about his life (with help from Johnny Depp and one other reader.) What really shines through is his absolute love of music as well as his totally undisciplined and wild, wild life style.
I liked it toward the end when he tells about how Tony Blair wrote him a get well letter (after an accident) and said, "Dear Keith, You've always been one of my heroes..." Then Keith says, "England's in the hands of someone I'm the hero of?
Reading the book is like listening to your foul-mouthed, slightly confused grandfather tell you stories - they don't always make sense, and sometimes you have no idea what he's saying, but your grandfather happens to be the most awesome person alive, so you're going to shut up and pay attention to everything he says.
It was the first time I'd heard something so stark."In fact, the only time this book isn't awesome reading is when Keith Richards talks about women, and worse, attempts to address the misogyny in rock and roll.
Keith Richards, I learned from this book, only likes women when they do everything for him.
"Life" by Keith Richards not a classic but a really really OK book.
But me writing that I really wanted it to be a great rock n' roll classic book and "Life" maybe grand, but great it isn't.It's obvious that Richards is writing (or co-writing) this for the fans out there.
Every question and thought regarding the Rolling Stones long history is answered or dealt with - yet for that reason it strikes me as a book done in numbers and not passion or through the enjoyment of putting a book together.Also to be honest there is some major flaws in Keith Richards' character.
Car crashes, knife fights, gun skirmishes, not to mention all the drugs, booze and jail stints -- any one of these might have put an end to any one else, but this guy just keeps on rolling.This is a long book -- and will be made longer still because if you're anything like me you'll want to pause the audio or set down the book to queue up all those great Stones songs mentioned, or to look up some of the crazy characters mentioned along the way (just who the heck is Uschi Obermaier and was she really that beautiful??) Personally, I found the book a bit too rambling at times, and much too detailed about the actual musical techniques (muscians might appreciate this; however, the specifics were lost on me).
What can I say?I am a fervent Stones fan, more of a Mick than Keith although Andrew loves Keef and has shown me the "way." But it is the combination of the group that makes the band, and the times they have lived through.
KR makes this abundantly clear throughout Life and is at times all possible sides of a character: arrogant, nasty, mean, kind, loving, fun, crazy, menacing, clueless, dangerous, and incredibly talented while still being very modest.
This book is amazing, sounds just like him with some tidying up no doubt by James Fox, but what an incredible feat.
I want this book to stay on my book shelf even though I am not going to waste my time finishing it.
Everything I wanted to find out about the Stones in this book, just wasn't there.
I am the type of reader who just has to finish any book that I start.
Don't waste your time on a book that you are not enjoying.
I hated your book and will not waste another second on trying to finish.
There’s even one by the brain surgeon who operated on Keith in New Zeeland after he fell from a tree in Fiji.*[edit 12-9-2014] Another book, Brian Jones: The Making of the Rolling Stones, by Paul Trynka, Oct., 2014, challenges some of the details in Life.https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...Here is an excerpt from a review in the NY Times, Nov. 16, 2014:In “Life,” Mr. Richards describes his discovery of the blues-tinged open G guitar tuning, familiar from hits like “Honky Tonk Women” and “Start Me Up,” as life changing, and says it came to him via Ry Cooder in the late 1960s.
ever since I first heard SATISFACTION on my little portable AM radio....I have loved the Stones.
but there was a lot about Keith that I didn't know.This book thrilled me...parts of it I loved.
love him or hate him....the man did not have a boring life.If you are a Stones fan....read this bio.
But understand this....it's written as a narrative....like Keith just talks into a tape recorder about his thoughts, his dreams, his wild audaicious behaviors....but in the end the man made music,and he made it quite well.Worth your time....just stick with it...
Don't pick this book up hoping to like Keith Richards.
I've played guitar most of my life, and my favorite parts of this book are when he talks about music, which he hears and understands deeply and passionately.
He also makes the best argument for slinging your guitar low I've ever heard, but he's still wrong - that's an idiotic thing to do - so, y'know, your mileage may vary but it's interesting to hear.
But like many celebrities, he's been convinced that his cute tics are actually cute tics, and they are not.
But at the same time...what if you were to try neither acting nor talking like an asshole?
I rarely read books by or about celebrities, but I will make the occasional exception if the celebrity in question has written a song as great as "Blue Eyes Cryin' in the Rain," or (as in this case) "Satisfaction."Keith Richards lays out the story of his life from very humble beginnings to mega success as a founding member of one of the world's greatest--and longest running--rock 'n' roll bands.
Even though the book was written with a collaborator, James Fox, every page sounds like the voice of Keith Richards, at least as you might imagine it after listening for years to the man's music.Long-time Stones' fans will delight in the discussions of the music and revel in the details of the band members' relationships through the years.
I picked this book up because it was lying around the art colony where I was living for a month, and because NYT op-ed columnist, Maureen Dowd, of all people, had said Keith Richards had come off surprisingly chivalrously (high praise for a free swinging rock and roll star).
"Life" by Keith Richards, the guitarist for the British band the Rolling Stones, starts off like some druggie teenage wet dream, all groupies and pills and party attitude.
(He doesn't ever stop doing this.) I didn't know the Stones spent years doing covers, and that their original numbers came only after he and Mick Jagger were locked inside the kitchen by their manager, and told they couldn't leave until they had written a song.
I tend to oversimplify, but if a photo can say a thousand words, two can say a million. I'm no Mick Jagger fan, but Keith Richards' gratuitous slams on Jagger in this narcissistic memoir show he aged just as poorly inside.
Easily the most entertaining book I have ever read.
Did y'all know that Keith Richards is a huge booklover and once wanted to be a librarian?
I also wanted to know more about the song writing process and was a little disappointed that there weren't more details, but what he did write was fascinating.
There was way more information about his drug use and busts than I really cared to spend time reading but he did talk lovingly about his personal library and favorite authors which warmed my heart.
He also came across as a fairly lovable and caring fellow although he could get himself into some pretty good scraps.
Keith Richards goes into great detail about his childhood, the difficulties he faced growing up, and how he became the successful musician that he is today.
He writes in a natural style and reveals many private moments that are touching, painfully honest and real.
Many facets of the book were surprising, such as the negative reception they were first given when they performed in the US.
He says, "The first time I went to Heaven, I awoke with Ronnie....." You will be amazed as you look into the private world of this iconic performer.
Enjoy the great ride you'll take while reading Life!

I quote a comment made by me during my reading of this book:This book has everything to do with the typical stories of sex, drugs and rock'n'roll. A truly immersive reading about a real rock band. Worth reading.And a person that immensely contributed to the emerging of The Rolling Stones as a band.Still liked the Stones!
It's only rock~n~roll....
“Life” is a very intimate portrait which is funny, sad, heart-felt and full of great rock-and-roll debauchery!
Keith’s awe and respect for fellow musicians along with his great love of making music come through on every page.
This bio covers everything from Keith’s family life and his time as a Boy Scout to his song-writing style, life on the road, heroin addiction, knife-fighting tips and his favorite recipe for bangers and mash!
I found myself reading excerpts out loud to the family.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is a lover of rock-and-roll.
This is the Life. Believe it or not, I haven't forgotten any of it. ~Life, Keith Richards Well now, there you have it. Who'd have thunk "Keef" would have lived so long -- he certainly won't be leaving a beautiful corpse when he finally does kick off, that's for sure. And that will probably be from natural causes at this point in his life on the eve of turning  seventy , but who the hell knows with this guy? Sure he's laid off the dope, but he's still managing to fall out of trees hard enough to
Rock histories and music retrospectives on particular times and places endlessly fascinate me.
I came to this book hoping I would get a glimpse into that engine room, at all the characters huffing and puffing, fighting and fucking their way along in there, keeping this beast coined Rock n Roll running.
My favourite portion of the book might just be the time the Stones spent in France recording the double album Exile on Main Street.
And what begins as a charming and enchanting coming-of-age tale and a young man’s love letter to the power of music eventually does descend into the pit of hedonism and rock star excesses.
As with most bands I like, I'm only really interested in the music, not the behind-the-scenes stuff.This book has confirmed that for me.
All the while Keith is talking about his bad behaviour with drugs, women, hotel rooms, etc.
I found my attention drifting.When he talks about the music, though...
When he talks about the music, it's like pure gold dripping from his fingers.
I'm glad I read this book for that aspect alone, even if I did find it overlong and patchy in places.First the sun and then the moon...
Your body is a whole other matter and I really would encourage you to donate it to medical science for research because, clearly, something is going on in you that defies the laws of nature.
I guess I hadn't given much thought to this part of your character as, I admit it, I figured every rock 'n roll bad boy is slutastic like a porn star.
Also, I am so, SO glad you didn't go in for the plaster cast of your dick the way the guys from Led Zeppelin did.
Keith Richards, sensible.
Through reading your story, my perceptions were challenged and new thoughts were formed.
Seriously, what does a conservative, career military guy have in common with a “longhaired, dope-smoking, good-time rock-&-roller?” Turns out there are a few things.
I was impressed with his (and Jagger’s) focus on hard work and becoming proficient at the basics of making music early in his career, his modest boyhood, an appreciation of his grandfather Gus (who sounded like a guy I’d like).
I’m sure a  Stones fan would get more out the many vignettes he relates on his interaction with many famous members of his generation in the music and popular culture crowd.
This is a good story and I’m glad to have read it.
After Jimi and Janis died, all the smart money was on Keith Richard to be Rock n' Roll's next burnt-out flame.
And his secret to a long and exciting life?He was damn lucky.Maybe not in his music.
But lucky in that he didn't make a fatal mistake between the drugs and general madness his life style resulted in.
He describes how the Stones just wanted to be a blues band and slipped into being a rock band.
I especially liked hearing about how he and Mick Jagger created their songs.
But I'm loving Keith's autobiography because he's really good at taking you into the music, and he's not apologetic about his own part in things, his own presumed jerkiness, and I'm getting a look into a male psychology I've rarely seen on the page--this is the guy who doesn't talk in real life when you say, "what are you thinking?" Now I know.
Wow. Unlike many fly-then-crash-and- burn rock books (Buried Alive and No One Here Gets Out Alive being two of the best), Richards' is no cautionary tale, but rather, a high wire act which he walked and continues to walk.
But definitely what I liked best was Richard's incredible matter-of-fact perspective of this wild, messy life.
On the winding drive up to the villa, several banana trees had fallen onto the road.
When we arrived, the gardener told us in broken English to "watch out for rolling stones." Owing to the fallen trees, we didn't make the connection.
I said to my wife, "that looked just like Keith Richards." She laughed at me and said, "you're dreaming." But at two in the morning, a guitar took off like a 747--so loud he could have been in our living room.That was one of the reasons I picked up this book, and I was not disappointed by it.
