https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1798450.Het_behouden_huis
For three years I hadn’t once spent the night anywhere except shelters where people only worked, waited, or were held prisoner : police or railway stations, barns; a week in a hospital.An idyllic scene although his description contains one hint of the horrors to come:There was a sloping, dark green lawn with a large plane tree in the middle that had been pollarded so many times it now looked like a gallows with room for an entire family.He decides to stay in the house and leave the war behind, hiding his gun and uniform, rather fortunately as the German forces quickly retake the town in a counterattack and he is able to pass himself off as the house-owner to a (it must be said rather cliched) German officer:He began to make a show of tapping a cigarette on a silver case.
The novels of Dutch author Willem Frederik Hermans show us “the absurdity, cruelty and pointlessness of war”, as Cees Nooteboom explains in the afterword to this edition of “An Untouched House”.
The unnamed narrator, a Dutch member of the resistance, finds himself in a deserted spa town and discovers an abandoned, palatial house, seemingly untouched by the fighting.
But even this house will become a theatre of war.
When the house is requisitioned by the German troops occupying the town, the narrator wildly holds on to his fantasy by pretending he is the owner.
But oh, there is a lot of power packed within those pages.At the end of WW II, our nameless Dutch narrator is trudging along some nameless territory, searching for booby traps when he happens across an abandoned house.
I had slept in prisons, in barracks, on straw in classrooms, once under a truck, in haystacks, in good wagons.” The house seems quaint and odd after his senseless existence, but he quickly removes his uniform, dons the clothes of the owners, and makes himself at home.
According to Wikipedia, this novella was the first of Hermans’ works to be translated into English when it was called The House of Refuge and was included in a collection called “The World of Modern Fiction” in 1966.
To an extent, this view reminded me of the film “Saving Private Ryan” where the battle scenes, especially the long opening scene, show men descending into inhuman violence and becoming more and more animal-like.It is this descent that Hermans manages to chronicle in what is actually a very short novella.
War is, if you take Hermans’ pessimistic outlook on people, mankind acting without the veneer of civilisation and showing its true colours.
These 88 short pages are so intensely packed with image and feeling that reading it can’t help but be both wrenching and cathartic.This is the story of a man trying to survive to the end of the last, senselessly destructive days of the Second World War, when chaos has overcome any sense of order or meaning in the conflict, and armies are scattered into roving bands of looters who feel no loyalty or purpose beyond terror and retribution, and when the best side with which to align yourself, to keep on living, can switch in an instant.
He feels a sense of wanting to protect what is most fragile and beautiful in the world, even if it won’t help him survive.
First written in 1950, An Untouched House presents an uncompromising situation taking place in the waning years of World War II, which Willem Hermans had witnessed first hand.
Hermans may have intended this very slim novel as a metaphor for war in its absurdist, random violence, but make no mistake, this is no easy read.
As a further note, choosing a book by its cover is usually a bad idea and choosing a book based on its publisher may even be a worse one, but everything I've read put out under the Penguin/Random House archipelago imprint has been provocative, intriguing and worthwhile.
“…it was impossible to imagine ever having been capable of thinking things through; as automatically as if one’s deeds were the world’s thoughts.” This short but powerful novella is a minacious reflection on the brutality of war by the Dutch author Willem Frederik Hermans (1921-1995), whose most famous works include The House of Refuge (1952), The Darkroom of Damocles (1958) and Beyond Sleep (1966). Along with Harry Mulisch and Gerard Reve, he was one of the three most important authors in the
This short but powerful novella is a minacious reflection on the brutality of war by the Dutch author Willem Frederik Hermans (1921-1995), whose most famous works include The House of Refuge (1952), The Darkroom of Damocles (1958) and Beyond Sleep (1966).
Along with Harry Mulisch and Gerard Reve, he was one of the three most important authors in the Netherlands during the post-war period, receiving the highly prestigious Prijs der Nederlandse Letteren in 1977.First published in 1951, 
In the chaos of a battle-sapped German countryside he discovers an empty house, apparently unscathed by the surrounding devastation and, exhausted, falls asleep in the drawing room.
Set during World War ll, this fever dream of a plotless novella has a Soviet Partisan soldier chancing upon an abandoned house. As the Nazis suddenly appear in his temporary sanctuary, he pretends to be the owner of the house—and the real owner shows up. The prose is beautiful in this Dutch classic, with startling moments of insight and imagery. The trauma of war, nihilism, and futility of the human condition makes it a challenging read. The mood is overwhelmingly bleak. Translated from Dutch by David Colmer with a particularly insightful afterword by Cees Noteboom.
Ce court roman est une vraie claque sur l'absurdité, la cruauté et la futilité de la guerre.
Ecrit en 1950, ce livre montre la vraie nature des hommes en temps de guerre, en l'occurrence ici, la 2nde Guerre mondiale.
La civilisation humaine n'est qu'un leurre, une fine couche de vernis laquée sur la bestialité innée de l'homme que le moindre conflit fait craqueler jusqu'à la peler complètement le temps d'un battement de cils.
Auteur néerlandais complètement inconnu à l'étranger, Hermans avait tout compris sur la nature profondément nihiliste des hommes, à l'instar d'un Stieg Dagerman, d'un Primo Levi ou d'un Céline (l'antisémitisme en moins).
Mijn zeer lage waardering voor dit boek is vooral te danken aan een irritant college van een prof letterkunde die het tot in den treure heeft zitten analyseren. De uitwerpselen van een vogel op een vensterbank die symbool zouden staan voor de munten die in Oude Tijden op de ogen van de overledene werden gelegd zodat hij de reis over de Styx kon betalen? Komaan.
Derde of vierde keer, maar dit boek verveelt nooit. Benieuwd of mijn Poolse studenten Hermans ook kunnen waarderen...
An abandoned house occupied by an imposter; and an adopted cat, fascinated by a locked room ... these enticed me into 'An Untouched House'. And yet it all descended into such a depraved orgy of violence ….Hermans is a renowned writer and I’m sure he's saying something valuable and meaningful about – I don’t know- war, innocence , the inhumanity of humans…but it’s all lost on me. My thoughts on finishing the book were these- What a horrible little book, but mercifully, short.
één van de weinige korte verhalen die ook echt mooi zijn
Een oud boekje (uit 1950) en kort, maar brandend actueel. Het beschrijft hoe de menselijke geest zich ontplooit in oorlogstijd, soms pakkend, soms wreed... prachtig geschreven!
A powerful and nightmarish portrayal of the absurdity and pointlessness of war.
The narrator is a Dutch partisan fighting with the Russians towards the end of WWII.
Amidst the chaos he finds himself in an abandoned spa town and makes himself at home in a deserted mansion.
Later the Germans arrive and requisition the house.
The house has offered a brief respite from the violence and horror but the author casts an unflinching gaze at the senseless violence that ensues.
First published in 1951 and now available in a new English translation, it surely ranks among other classics of war writing, and I am very pleased to have discovered it.
The way he takes war, filth of humanity, and the evil that lurks is exactly what I want to read in books, this is what affects me most: a bleak desolation.
And if I may bring in further multidisciplinary comparisons, the isolationist nature of the novelette reminded me of Salad Fingers the animated shorts, while the exploration of the house in war brought me back to my childhood seat playing Wolfenstein 3D.
Only instead of aide boxes and German shepherds biting at your ankle: aquariums full of fish and 26 pairs of shoes.When I read the afterword, I was further enamored with the author.
Looking forward to read more of Hermans.
Willem Frederik Hermans' An Untouched House is a tale set within the Second World War, and translated from its original Dutch. I found, as I was reading, that the story has a quiet power to it, and it took twists which I was not expecting. There is certainly a sinister edge which creeps in, making it feel both stifling and difficult to read. I'm not sure that I enjoyed this tale, but I certainly admired it.
Geschreven in een sobere, zakelijke stijl zijn alle ingrediënten van Hermans pessimistische levensvisie meteen al aanwezig. In dit verhaal is de noodlottige omstandigheid de Tweede Wereldoorlog. Het is zo treurig geschreven dat ik het drie sterren geef. Mij bekoorde het niet. Hier en daar ook wat traag.
Naar aanleiding van de recente vertaling in het Engels (The Untouched House), die nogal werd geroemd in The Guardian, heb ik deze novelle gelezen.Het is een verhaal over een partizaan tegen het eind van de Tweede Wereldoorlog.
In een verlaten dorp neemt de hoofdpersoon zijn intrek in een van de villa's die leegstaat.
Als de nazi’s aanbellen, doet hij zich voor als de zoon van de eigenaar.
Het basis idee vond ik best interessant.
Niet mijn ding.
Deed me zelfs een beetje denken aan de paranoia van De Donkere Kamer Van Damocles, waar ik ook al niet zo enthousiast over was.
"Some doctors explain love at first sight as arising not from what you see but from what you smell. Humans are so sure they can't trust others that things that are said or shown never convince. Smell--the weakest over a distance, able to be suppressed by perfume but never defeated--cannot dissemble because it is constantly being produced. Stench is eveywhere, unavoidable. Only stench tells the truth."
Brutally sad but fascinating tale of a moment in time in WWII experienced by a tired soldier.
To be fair, this book is probably better than I think it is. I read it in work and my enjoyment was diminished each time I was interrupted. Rude.
"The plane changed into a comet of soot and hit the ground somewhere behind me.
The story runs to only 70 odd pages, with large text on small pages.
If anything it is closer to a short story than a novella.
Hermans seems to be using the house as a metaphor for Europe, with the ever changing cast of occupation and ownership, and all of the violence and killing going on throughout and around it.
This is a fairly unflinching and confronting account, which gives it an authentic and convincing edge to this tiny slice of World War II.
A man involved in WW2 is told to bugger off by his superiors, so he does indeed bugger off – and ends up taking over what he thinks is an abandoned country house, left at great haste by people clearly more worried about their own skins than the building.
The mishmash of this side, that side and the partisans all together make for a lesson in the folly of that war, but it's pretty much to no great effect – at the end I was shrugging, rather than emoting in any other way.
It's not bad, and it carries some of the shell-shocked randomness and mystery of the international battlefield, but not to any great ends.
Interessant boek, met ontzettend veel symboliek.
Perfect voor de leeslijst op de middelbare school, en nog goed te lezen ook.
Verder ook ontzettend dapper van de auteur om dit te laten publiceren, immers gepubliceerd in 1951, maar de bevrijders zijn hier de barbaren en de bezetters zijn ontzettend geciviliseerd.
Maar afgaande op een korte biografie van de auteur, was deze publicatie te verwachten.
Maar dat is helemaal niet erg, soms moet je mensen shockeren om een waardevolle discussie op gang te krijgen.
Juist in de tegenwoordige tijd is dat, volgens mij, weer ontzettend van toepassing.
Juist nu hadden we weer wat gehad aan een W.F. Hermans.
Niets blijft behouden in oorlogstijd: geen stenen en geen mens, de vrijheid en de beschaving niet. Om die onbarmhartige chaos en dubbelzinnige oneerlijkheid zo relatief kort na de Tweede Wereldoorlog op te tekenen in een fragment, dat zich aan het einde van die oorlog in - denkelijk - Polen afspeelt, is groots. Niettemin, een korte, verwarrende vertelling - even spannend als, op sommige momenten, absurdistisch. Als een soldaat die zich veilig waant maar intussen ijlt als in een nachtmerrie. Wrang...
Deze dunne Hermans las ik tijdens een vlucht van een paar uur. Hoofdpersoon is een Nederlandse huurling die oorlogsmoe is en zijn intrek neemt in een luxe villa. Vervolgens ontvouwt zich een bizar verhaal waarin Duitsers het huis confisqueren, de eigenaar terugkeert en plots een hoogbejaarde visssenkweker opduikt. Deze vroege novelle geeft al veel prijs over wat verder van deze grote schrijver mag worden verwacht: cynisme, bizarheid, dubbelzinnige betekenissen en trefzekere, korte zinnen.
In de eerste persoon geschreven korte novelle over een Nederlandse partizaan die aan het eind van de tweede wereldoorlog een verlaten landhuis betrekt in een Hongaars dorp dat kort daarop heroverd wordt door de Duitsers. In het huis verliest hij alle gevoel voor werkelijkheid en moraal, maar toch krijg je het gevoel dat deze pas echt worden geschonden als het huis weer 'bevrijd' wordt door de Partizanen.De smerigheid van oorlog grondig samengevat.
Couldn't get into it. It's a very short novel but I did not enjoy reading it. It offers a very bleak view on live which I am not a fan of. Rating it 1/5 may seem a bit harsh, there are far worse books out there, but honestly this book didn't offer me anything. The best thing about this book, at least for me, is the fact that it's so short so that it didn't waste too much of my time.
- Raar, zeer apart verhaal- Kort maar krachtig opgeschreven, genoeg beschreven voor een goed beeld, maar zeker niet langdradig- Elke zin moest gelezen worden om het verhaal goed te volgen
