https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/906543.The_Family_Under_the_Bridge
As the Christmas season draws near, I am reminded of a beautiful children’s book set in Paris at Christmas time ~ The Family Under the Bridge, by American author Natalie Savage Carlson. The Family Under the Bridge is a celebration of the City of Light, a celebration of generosity and kindness, and a celebration of family sticking together through tough times.  Reading this book is like being taken on a walking tour of Paris. And no ordinary walking tour of Paris ~ a walking tour of Paris conduct
One especially pretty scene occurs at the Christmas Eve party under Tournelle Bridge: “But Suzy’s eyes were looking across the river to the little Isle of the Cité, where Notre Dame was illuminated like a saint’s dream.
She is upset when she learns that her children accepted food from Armand and she tries to distance herself from the other homeless people at the Christmas Eve party when she offers to help serve the dinner.
It's obvious that the man is just "hired to play Father Christmas," he is in fact a good friend of Armand's.
I think any kids old enough to read this book, or follow along as its read to them, don't have trouble with mall Santas being hired to play the part.
It reminds me of many of the old-fashioned books of yore, when you can have your POV character in a children's book be an older man, and when such matters as not enough money, and not wanting to go to an orphanage, were dealt with in simple and matter-of-fact terms.
Monsieur Armand is a homeless person living in Paris, sleeping under bridges and I think the book suggests, is happy with his lot.
The children soon become attached to Monsieur Armand and call him Grandfather.
We liked the part where they lived with the gypsies and the christmas eve party.This was a lovely story but I don't know why the author continually refered to Monsieur Armand as the hobo or the tramp, I changed this and used his name and explained how the book was written in times when this seemed okay.
Hard work, determination, the support of others, and maybe just a bit of luck on your side can really turn things around. Those should have been the lessons learned from reading this but that's not the message I was picking up. I must be missing something, I don't understand the appeal and the numerous great reviews. Underwhelming even for this softhearted reader. 1 1/2 stars.
I fell in love the aged hobo who was content in life just being in his version of freedom, the adorable dog who should have been white but wasn't, Jo-Jo, the small children with their cute questions and wonders.
The book has different turns and events in the decently sized children's story - from different homes to different discoveries.
Definitely a beautiful Christmas story- it may not be a direct Christmas story, but it happens at Christmas/New Year time so it's going in the books as that for me.
وقتی هوا سردتر میشه و به کریسمس نزدیک میشن، او سه کودک رو پیدا میکنه که زیر پل، جایی که اون زندگی میکنه، دارن زندگی میکنن.
اونا سریع توی قلب آرماند جا باز میکنن با اینکه آرماند تلاش میکرد که به اونا احساسی پیدا نکنه.
سریع مشخص میشه که اونا گرسنه هستن و غذا نخوردن بنابراین آرماند اونا رو میبره تا توی شهر بچرخن.
آرماند فداکاری نهایی رو انجام میده تا اونا به آرزوشون برسن.کتاب پر از طنزه و همچنین نشون میده که انسان ها وقتی کسی وارد قلبشون میشه چطور رفتار میکنن.
For the good, it was a sweet little story of a man changing his heart because of some children he met.
The reason this bothered me so much was because the man COULD work, he just chose not to.
Even if he didn't want a steady job (at the time) he could have worked for a day and earned enough money for a few day's worth of food.
I could take the time to discuss these moral issues with my children, but overall, while it was a nice little story, it didn't "wow" and I think we could miss this without feeling like we'd skipped an important book.
Sweet story! The writing was lacking somewhat, but can we all just agree that the illustrations are adorable?!?! <3
I absolutely loved this story of how a homeless family in France finds a home. Charming!
This was a truly wonderful and well-written story for children and adults, with detailed illustrations, originality and a plot with themes of love, friendship and finding hope in bad situations.
This was a fun little read that I read almost all on Sunday morning! :) I haven't read it in years and decided to again! Very fun and I recommend! :)
The writing is wonderful and the illustrations by Garth Williams are darling.The story begins with a hobo who does not like children.
It is a gentle book, but the theme is homelessness, which is always a difficult subject.
Be prepared for lots of questions from your child.It takes place during the days around Christmas, so you may want to read it then.
HOWEVER the book hints at the nonexistence of Father Christmas--so be prepared for that, too.Anyway, definitely a winner.Editted to add: This book avoids very real problems of homelessness, like alcoholism or inability to find a job.
Best part of the whole book:"'To think we have fallen so low,' wept the woman.
Are you more generous?''I'm honest.' murmured the woman through her scarf.''What good does it do to be honest if you aren't kind and generous?' he asked.
Then in a softer tone he said, 'You may think them thieves and wanderers, madame, but they are workers, too.
...'They are thieves,' persisted Madame Calcet.'They mean no harm,' said the hobo.
And you've been doing a lot of talking about families sticking together.
Well, we're all God's big poor family, so we need to stick together and help each other.'"
One of the sweetest most charming books I have ever read.
How I wish I would have found this when I was a girl.
I would have loved it.
This is a story of some wonderful little French children who are hard on their luck and "living rough" when they encounter a bum who trys to be grumpy and unloving but falls in love with the little family.
The story is not an overly bleak look at homelessness (it is for children after all), and is not particularly whitewashed either.
What a treat this little book is.
8Genre – Historical FictionSummary:This heartening story tells the tale of a homeless old man named Armand who lives alone on the streets of Paris and is not ashamed to be termed a hobo or a tramp.
The theme of the story is one that all can feel as they follow the different adventures that Armand and the children face around Paris.B) Armand is a solitary old man who is set in his ways and lives on the streets of Paris.
Armand changed his lifestyle to care for the children that he grew to love and couldn’t live without.Curriculum Connection:Family is something that is considered only if you are related by blood.
A timeless heartwarmer and Newbery Honor book, this story of a Parisian hobo whose life is turned upside down by the appearance of three young children and their mother under the bridge he calls home, is a beautiful story about the power of love.
While the main characters are all homeless, or transient gypsies, they are all represented as decent, honorable people with a code of honor to watch out for each other and take care of those more unfortunate than themselves.
The setting of the story during the Christmas holidays makes this a wonderful annual read aloud tradition with children across a range of ages.
If you want a funny book and maybe a sad book that will make you think you should read this book.I learned that some people dont relize thast homeless people are happy like the way they are. And some people dont want homeless people in the world or walking around Paris.
This is a story of transformation: Armand, a Parisian hobo, meets three fatherless little children who have recently lost their home.
Don't Read if You Dislike:- Moral ambiguousness - the characters make sinful decisions at times that are excused or even portrayed in a positive light.
Personal Thoughts:I felt the tale was rather simplistic and not memorable due to lack of character development.
Armand is the only character who has any definition or life.
It turned out to be a heart warming story about an older homeless man who lives out of his buggy on the streets of Paris and retires to sleep most evenings underneath a bridge.
One gets a real sense of what Paris is like from the story and how much Armand’s heart is touched by his new family.
The cover pages were fun and joyful, like the outings that Armand, the older new adopted grandfather, took the children on.
Nonetheless, I enjoyed the story of The Family Under The Bridge and found it quite delightful.
Điều khó khăn với lão, là lũ trẻ này lại là những đứa khao khát có một ngôi nhà, một mái ấm gia đình thực sự.
Nó thấm đượm tình người dù trong khó khăn gian khổ, nhưng chỉ cần có tình thương tồn tại giữa người với người, cuộc sống sẽ trở nên tươi đẹp biết bao, như một câu truyện cổ tích tồn tại giữa đời thường.Một truyện nhẹ nhàng thấm tình người, một ông già và lũ trẻ dễ thương làm mình liên tưởng đến truyện Heidi .
I'd never read it before, so I was hoping that it would be a nice Christmas tale.
I loved that the children were joyful and hopeful despite their desperate living conditions.
(hide spoiler)]Still, the story was very engaging and the ending was nice, if a bit saccharine sweet.
We really enjoyed reading this book together and I think it helped to put us in the right mood for Christmas.
I think that the story put the many blessings we have in perspective for our girls and it makes them even more willing to donate their lightly used toys and clothes to charity.
The Family Under the Bridge is a good book for people of all ages, because it has easy content for older people to read and if they would read it to younger kids they would get the story line also.
Armand the old man thinks he doesn't need anybody in his life to make him happy.
The mother doesn't want any help she tells Armand to never see the children again.
Armand also eventually gets a job and finds a small house for them to live in.
I could never be alone for my whole life, with no job or house.
The obvious social issue of poverty in here is evident throughout the story.
The story itself is a feel-good one: a hobo befriends orphans and basically raises them to be something better than himself.
The second is that the characters, despite being poor, are way too flat and "nice".
We really don't know of their suffering because they are carousing around Paris all the time, dreaming about Father Christmas, bigger houses, and better food.
I feel like more could have been done to make it a better story with deeper elements of plot and character.
This book shows us an accurate example of change to better.
It is about Armand he is a homeless living under some bridge in Paris.
Armand began to exploit those kids as a beggars to collect a money from people.
But finally he loved those kids and try to find a respected job to get money through it.
he finished with server job and he spent a money on the kids.The author wrote this story to shows us that every one can change his situation when he wants to change.
His message in my opinion was change is possible.
This book was shoved into my hands at checkout by an ardent middle-aged stranger who explained that it was her absolute favorite book as a child and that I, not she, should be buying it.
The story of a homeless family wandering the streets of Paris during Christmas time should not be so appealing and uplifting, but this book, like few children's books can, seems to make it so.
It also has some appealing moral questions (what does it mean to be rich?
what does it mean to be good?) that would have completely passed me by as a child, but that I appreciate to no end as an adult.
***Newbery Honor (1959)***I hated this book. It had elements of potential to be amusing, but failed due to very shabby writing. I had hoped to enjoy it, but it was just too thread bare and shallow for my taste.
The children applauded when I finished. ha!An old hobo adopts a homeless family and sacrifices to help them find a home.Set in Paris at Christmas.Read at lunch with Calvin, Lincoln, Naomi, Julia, JD, Joseph, Elijah, & Elena.A book written in the 20th century.
This is such a sweet story - I cried - I even cried trying to tell my sister about the story. Such a beautifully told story and great illustrations by Garth Williams. This one is gem, an uplifting and life affirming story.
Sweet little story of an old hobo in Paris with a soft heart who helps a homeless family and changes his own life as a result.
As Armand was going through his regular routine of walking around with his shopping cart, he comes across three children under his bridge.
They head to a department store where one of Armand's friends is working as Father Christmas (Santa Claus) and the children tell him that they want a house for Christmas.
When they return, Madam Caleet (the mother) is furious with Armand for taking the children out and having them sing for money.
Armand wants to help the Caleets so he visits an old gypsy friend and asks her to invite them to her camp.
