https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2406.Herman_Melville
When I first read this novel many, many years ago, it was titled ‘Billy Budd, Foretopman.’ Apparently, research into Melville’s mss.
When Claggart makes his false charges, Billy is unable to find the words to respond, due to a speech impediment.
Condemned to be hanged from the ship’s yardarm at dawn the morning after the killing, Billy’s final words are, “God bless Captain Vere!” There are lots of interpretations of the novel by – mostly – english professors, but whatever one you want to choose, you are still left with a text that is painful to get through.
But the tale is powerful, and gripping, and even after several rereads I find myself getting anxious when Ahab baptizes the three heathens, when the St. Elmo's fire burns, and when the crazed captain screams "From the depths of Hell I stab at thee!" The power in the novel is in the riddle of its focus, in the various meanings and unmeanings of the whale, of the primal force of the world that man flails against in futility; its poetry is in its execution.
This is a tale well worth a yearly read.
The lectures on whales and whaling, if we believe Ishmael is self-taught, could be considered in his voice; but the internal monologues of Ahab, Starbuck and the other mates can't be.
And then there are several scenes that Ishmael could not have witnessed...So, point of view really bothered me.In many ways this is one of the earliest examples of multi-genre I've read.
But, 1st person narrative, lectures, nonfiction essays, interior monologues, and even scenes from plays...What a monumental undertaking this was.And Moby Dick?
Would this statement be considered a spoiler??Glad I read it; gladder that I've finished it.
So I've never written a review on Goodreads before, but I feel compelled to after finishing Moby Dick.It's just that good.
When there's a particularly dramatic moment coming, it turns Shakespearean; even to the extent of having stage directions and dialogue.I was afraid it would be dense and ponderous, but particularly in the action scenes, it really moves quickly.
I was also expecting Ahab to be a bit of a caricature, but maybe I've been reading too much Dickens.
He's a really interesting character, especially when we see him in a quiet moment and can tell what he's feeling.A great read.
While reading this classic, I often thought of the men on the Pequod and how they might not see land for months at a time.
And I felt a kinship with them as I followed Melville on his tangential ramblings about the color white, the parts of a whale, and such.
When our good narrator would finally return to the actual storyline, it was a relief, perhaps akin to spotting land after months at sea.
But I am glad I soldiered through it, and I am really glad the White Whale won.
Yet, I think if you understood all of the imagery that he is trying to get acorss it would be an aamzing book and although I viewed the majority of it boring(I didn't understand all of the symbolism that should be in it) because of all of the unnecessary chapter, the story line is very interesting.Billy Budd is much shorter than Moby Dick and an interesting story line.
I love all of the symbolism of Christ that is in there but some of it is just too sad for my taste.
What greater quest is there than following Ishmael, a year out at sea with the monomaniac Ahab, after that omnipotent white whale?
This novel is so rich in detail, drawing on ancient history, the Bible and modern-day (19th century) social issues, to create a work that truly stands on its own.This novel portrays a simple quest, yet on a deeper, philosophical level looks at issues such as the role of the individual within his social (racial) class and fate vs.
While Melville goes into elaborate detail on the specifics of whaling (making for some slow reading in the middle chapters), the journey is worth while.
While parts of this were a slog--does anyone love the Cetology chapter?--I found Melville's construct fascinating. He seems to try on various writing styles throughout the book--from research and reportage to free-form stream of consciousness. It's amazing to me that even today, this novel still feels experimental and daring.I was also amazed by Melville's descriptions of the cultural diversity of the sea ports and whaling crews at that time... whatever sense of openness and diversity we have now seems pitiful compared to the Melville's eastern seaports.(more on both of these points, w/ quotes to come)
Melville, is like "comfort food" for me, and even viewed through modern lenses, his work seems experimental and beyond its time, picking up, in some ways, where Poe left off after his untimely and bizarre demise in 1849. "Whenever my hypos get such an upper hand of me that it requires a strong moreal principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically knocking people's hats off-- then I account it is high time to get" my hands on this book as soon as I can. And so should you. End your prejudice and read these classics.
John Huston created a phenomenal and worthwhile film of this symbolic allegory, BUT there is SO MUCH MORE in the literary text missing from the cinema version. -- Melville's narrative encompases brilliant wit and the constant eruption of humor, as well as extensive and fascinating maritime and whaling document and theory. Melville was a pioneer of psychoanalytic insight and symbolism. He is a master of irony, and visual panorama. Audio book read by Paul Boehmer.
This is about the 5th time that I picked up this book. The time must be right, because I'm amazed at how much I'm finding in it. I love the perspective and the multi-ethnic/-cultural mix of characters. The narrator's voice is quite distinct and the style is of the time...but I think it enhances rather than detracts...but it was one of the reasons that I kept putting it down all those times as well. I now have fresh eyes for it.
This is clearly an American classic. The writing is incredible but I am finding it tough going. Ishmael's relationship with Queequeg is different than what I remember. But then I don't remember if I have ever read the entire book. I will this time.Still plodding away. Boy, can Melville write. I will finish this. Still reading and I am liking it more and more. Of course, I have not gotten to the sperm whale chapter yet. Melville is determined to make me like whaling.
4.25/5It is a grand and eloquently written tale, but suffers from shortcomings which might put off less patient readers - it is at times overly florid and unnecessarily convoluted, the digressions are huge and sometimes uninteresting, making the reader feel he is reading a mid 19th century whaling manual rather than literary work.If you can see past these, it is an enjoying read.
I finally finished Moby Dick. For me, it had a whole lot of whale detail sandwiched in between some really interesting character development and tragic action scenes. I guess I was mostly frustrated by all the detail. Just when I was getting into the characters and story, it would get interrupted with yet more information about whales.
I know i am going to get into trouble about not liking certain things about the book. The authors ' research' on whales 'shows' to the extent that it feels stuck in and there is way too much of it. Perhaps it added a certain tension to suspend the story so many times to give us what he found in the encyclopedia but really not all of it was needed.
Literally become immersed in Captain Queeg's obsession with the white whale. This is my all time favorite book as Melville develops the characters and story and spellbinding conclusion. This collection also includes Billy Budd, a tale of innocence lost on the high seas. If you liked the movie Master and Commander with Russell Crowe you will enjoy these stirring tales of the sea.
I really enjoyed reading this classic. There is a reason it is used in every English class in America. Melville was incredibly talented and the book is so layered with metaphor it would take a lifetime of study to uncover them all. It is very difficult to get through however. I didn't finish all of the chapters.
One of my favorite books. The first 15 percent or so is like an adventure story, but after you get through Ishmael and his cannibal boyfriend wrapping their legs around each other, the book really takes off when they set out to sea. Insanity, death, obsession, this is really an Old Testament-style horror novel on the high seas.
There is a problem with attempts to reconcile natural and supernatural claims in the human soul; that is, although we tend to be at odds with nature, we are ultimately subsumed by it, and barred from reasoning back to first causes.
I know that I'm "supposed" to find this book filled with symbolism and whatnot but...it just reminds me of the books I was force fed during freshman english. Books that I "read" but could not allow myself to comprehend their deeper meaning.
Had to do it. Parts of Moby Dick were good and engaging, but, hey, I am a modern reader. Move on with it. I need to digest it a bit more before I say anything useful, but the character names are superb.
There is a reason that this book is long. Whaling takes a long time to do and it is not always exciting. Melville shows you through the mundane life of the sailor what it was like to be on the ship. The story up to him getting on the ship is some of the best fiction writing in English history.
oh, it's allegorical
Not the edition I recommend!
I didn't get to Melville until a few years ago. My mind is blown.
One of my favorite gay sailor books.
Seemed like it took forever to get through this, but well worth it. I wish he would have condensed it a little. Not so many chapters on a topic.
The greatest american novel
My favorite is Billy Budd.
I plan to reread this one because I am sure that I will like it more the second time where I can take my time instead of rushing through it in a class that I simply didn't enjoy.
