https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85222.The_Complete_Western_Stories_of_Elmore_Leonard
C’ERA UNA VOLTA IL WESTBel western danese girato in Sudafrica nel 2014, tipico revenge movie: regia di Kristian Levring, “The Salvation”, con Mads Mikkelsen, Eva Green, Jeffrey Dean Morgan, Eric Cantona, Jonathan Pryce.Sono sicuro che Terry Quinn non ha mai letto Butcher’s Crossing, altrimenti non direbbe che il miglior scrittore di western è Elmore Leonard.
Western ma speziato e screziato di noir, gotico, ghost story.Magnifica miniserie TV Netflix del 2018: “Godless”, creata da Scott Frank, sceneggiatore e regista di tutti e sette episodi, con Jack O’Connell, Jeff Daniels, Michelle Dockery, Sam Waterston, Scoot McNairy.Leonard cominciò a scriverli quando aveva venticinque anni e lavorava in un’agenzia pubblicitaria (a trentasei anni si mise in proprio e aprì la sua propria agenzia che forniva testi, ma che sei anni dopo abbandonò definitivamente per dedicarsi alla scrittura a tempo pieno).
clint eastwood tells us that the only authentically original american art forms are jazz, blues, and the western.
lemme up the ante and say that no other form reveals more about america than the western.
and the great practitioners of the form (ford, mann, hawks, boetticher, peckinpah, leone, eastwood) tell us as much about america as any novelist, essayist, historian, or sociologist.
maybe more.
tome is the fifth book of elmore leonard westerns i've read over the past two weeks -- a period that's been supplemented by townes van zandt's live at the ol' quarter, steve earle's train a'coming, bob wills and his texas playboys' king of western swing, and daily rounds of mezcal and dos equis...
Both sides of the law underestimate the green youngster.The Longest Day In His Life in which Steve Brady spends his first day on the job as a stageline rep being robbed of his new suit and gun, being drawn on with a shotgun by the daughter of a business client, being recognized by a bandit he shot and testified against seven years ago and proposing marriage to the woman who almost shot him earlier.The Kid (original title: The Gift of Regalo) in which an opportunistic horse trainer finds a mute Indian boy and decides to keep him as an indentured servant, until a young prospector determines the boy was stolen by Apaches at one time and now deserves humane treatment, even if it means shooting the kid's master.Even this early in his career, Leonard demonstrates a sharp ear for character and dialogue.
Leonard knows the territory.” – Chicago Sun-Times“Leonard was a writer of superior Westerns before he turned to crime, but all the elements of his Detroit, Miami, and Atlantic City novels are here: oblique dialogue, closely observed behavior, a certain sunny cynicism, a melancholy courage.” – Boston Globe“I looked for a genre where I could learn how to write and be selling at the same time.
In addition, there were the “men’s” magazines such as Argosy and others that paid a bit more, but the jackpot was won if the writer could get something published in a couple of “slick” magazines, The Saturday Evening Post and Collier’s, that paid best of all.Despite never having been there, Leonard was drawn to New Mexico and, especially, Arizona as settings for his fiction.
It's been a lot of years since I read the book, though I've probably watched the movie with Paul Newman in it a dozen times over the years & it is an old favorite.One of the best things about Leonard's writing is that everyone in them are real people.
I was never quite sure which way they'd go, but usually the author seemed to find a pretty unique path for them.Blood Money - 3.5 stars - A good solid story to start the ball rolling.
This was an excellent story in a lot of ways, but it got too scattered, tried to make too many points & wound up not really making any of them with the impact they deserved.
But I was feeling really down today (and, like, for the past several weeks already, holy hell), and purely accidentally I stumbled upon this podcast, LeVar Burton Reads.
In this podcast, actor LeVar Burton reads various short stories.
I did have the same problem of not following the story to a certain extent, but I think I got the main gist of it, and while the story itself wasn't too cheerful, it did help me take my mind off certain things, if only for a little bit, and just in general I really enjoyed listening to LeVar's awesome voice.
In the 1950s there were two major figures in western noir; one was filmmaker Anthony Mann and the other was writer Elmore Leonard.
Leonard's writing was so dark that several western magazines turned down his stories for that very reason.
The latter two stories mentioned are significant in that they address issues of racism amid a cowboy style setting, making it less didactic than any sermon.While I never cared much for Leonard's modern crime writing I find his western tales to be totally tall and badass in the saddle.
“Three-Ten to Yuma,” still one of my favorites. Twelve pages long and riddled with more tension than you can stand. The rest of the entrants vary from solid to gold, Elmore Leonard doing what Elmore does best.
In the introduction, Elmore Leonard states that when he decided he wanted to be a writer, after college, he chose a genre he could learn to write while getting paid.
There were also a half dozen pulp magazines still in existence.
There his early success was found.Leonard expressed a liking for the American southwest and the Apache, not caring much for the high plains tribes.
His first half dozen or so tales mixed the Apache with Union soldiers, various situations which turned a number of stereotypes on their ears.
His mind is the law, and he can be as calm as he pleases, knowing his way is the only way." ** Contains Spoilers** On this, the eleventh installment (12th and final episode) of Sticher podcast's LeVar Burton Reads , we're gifted with "No Man's Guns" by Elmore Leonard.
I know I put this one off for a while, but the truth is, I've been busy, sick, and putting off the inevitable end to this season because I love the podcast so much.
Vindictive men always seem to do the right thing at the last minute in stories - I don't think that's likely in real life.
This is his short stories that he provided to a magazine to make a little bit of money.I read 3:10 to Yuma as I have enjoyed the movie. The Books ending is not the same at all.
Leonard illustra il Far West con piccoli e rapidi tocchi, in uno stile da pulp magazine, distribuendo qua e là pennellate di ghost story, noir, spy-story, perfino spaziando nella favola esopica e nella parabola evangelica; il risultato il più delle volte è eccellente.Un'ottima compagnia prima di spegnere la luce del comodino; forse sognerete anche voi un attacco di sanguinari mescaleros che viene provvidenzialmente a vivacizzare un lunedì del vostro ufficio.Segue meticolosa review, racconto per racconto, perchè di un libro così non si spreca una goccia.La pista Apache - ✰✰✰✰✰Gran personaggio, lo scout Eric Travisin.
But Sergeant Major Bo Catlett has something to return to Captain Early, and maybe it would be okay if there was a little blood of an ignorant fool on it.Like the other late-period stories, this one contains strong language that wasn’t allowed in the magazines, as well as the period racism.
There’s period depiction of Native Americans (not usually entirely negative) and some period sexism (plus a couple of attempted rapes.)Recommended for Western fans, Elmore Leonard fans and fans of the TV series Justified, which was based on Mr. Leonard’s work.
Since Leonard's style has evolved quite a bit, it's interesting to hear about his aspirations as a young writer.Trail of the Apache - 1951I wasn't sure what to expect of this first story, Leonard first published piece of writing, and I was somewhat surprised by it.
I was really surprised by this scene, and you can see the beginnings of how Elmore Leonard would later experiment with the genre, an ability to prod and pull at a genre's boundaries, something he'd pull off with greater accomplishment in his later westerns and especially when he transitioned later to the crime genre.
Listened via LeVar Burton Reads podcast.
(#12)I like world-building.
I know it isn't everything, I know Disney ignores it and still makes really fun movies while Pixar can make a small location feel like a full world, but I value it highly.
This book does not have it.
The way LeVar introduces a book I expect to jump in, from air into a swimming pool for example, or at least a writing style that does that on its own; this book had none of that.
It was not a nothing book, just situation based and that does not appeal to me on its own.
I love the progression through these as well, as he hits his stride and the 3:10 to Yuma is just absolutely perfect.There are stories in here to break your heart, to figure out what real courage really is, and with the lovely plot twists that are utterly and beautifully character driven.
Let it be a testament to the efficiency of Leonard's writing that I had, in three pages or less, gotten such an affinity for the characters and situation presented that I had to bite my tongue not to embarrass myself in public.Leonard is no Tolkien (thankfully), but, for a writer who appreciates terseness and getting to the point, he was also surprisingly good at sketching landscapes, an inescapable factor in a good western story.
After the first few shorts, I was thoroughly ingrained in the Arizona pecos and mountain ranges.Another surprisingly positive thing -- especially for shorts mostly published in the 50s -- is how damn progressive Leonard was when it came to race and gender.
So I've decided to teach a short-story class next semester (theory of, not creative writing), and I've decided to do some genre lit.
I've been enjoying the stories, which aren't as formulaic as you might expect.
Of course, there's a lot of repetition, but it tends mainly to be in the description (the word "ramada" gets used over and over) as opposed to the action.
I imagine most students will be interested in "Three-Ten to Yuma," which is really only a sliver of the movie---and not necessarily the meat of that flick, either.
It'll be interesting to see how the class responds to this as opposed to, say, Tim O'Brien and Sylvia Plath.
I kept seeing Elmore Leonard's name on movies or TV shows that I liked.
I had a vague notion that he wrote crime novels, so why would his name be on "Justified" or "3:10 to Yuma" or "Hombre"?
Well, everyone starts somewhere, & the western genre was where Leonard started - waaaaaaay back in the 1950's ;) I enjoyed reading the progression of his writing style & skill.
My Arizona friends might like this collection.
I was disappointed to find Hombre missing, as well as others.
I guess those are full length novels.
The Complete Western Short Stories of Elmore Leonard completes for the time being.
my compulsion with Elmore Leonard's work, which was always there, but which turned into nearly an addiction following his death .
From modern Detroit and Miami to frontier Arizona, New Mexico, and Mexico, the Leonard's career traversed more time and space than perhaps any other American writer.My answer to my tendency to pick a favorite from this group is "The Nagual." I'd give the award to "Tonto Woman," but I already picked it from When the Women Come Out To Dance, so it was declared ineligible.
Cormac Mccarthy this is not, being much closer in spirit to John Wayne type movies.
These stories were published in old western magazines so the audience likely wanted heroic adventures, not Blood Meridian style massacres.
The author is probably most famous for being the inspiration behind the television show Justified.
30 short stories that read like an mlg highlight reel of Indians, outlaws, and prison escapees being unceremoniously blown out by ranchers and the like.
A good collection of well-written, entertaining, often unpredictable yarns.
My favorites were:The Rancher's Lady3:10 to YumaThe Man with the Iron ArmTrail of the ApacheRed Hell Hits Canyon Diablo
I own the Kindle version of this book, and read these short stories on my iPhone.After reading a few of these stories, I saw Elmore Leonard's growth as a short story writer. 'Trail of the Apache,' his first short story, was overlong and unsure about what point it intended to impress upon the reader. But 'Trouble at Rindo's Ranch,' 'Saint with a Six-Gun' and other stories he wrote later, were much more powerful and gripping. 'Three-Ten to Yuma,' for example, was a perfectly formed short story.
This is a collection of Elmore Leonard's early Western short stories, from long before he became known as a crime novelist. It's safe to say that he had not yet found his voice when he wrote these -- the snappy dialog that became his trademark later is barely to be found here. The stories are reasonably entertaining, but his crime novels from later in his career are far more fun, and much more satisfying.
Meraviglioso testo che esprime appieno l'essenza del Western. Una prosa perfetta, asciutta come un arroyo del Deserto Dipinto. Ognuno dei racconti è un perfetto film western, da John Ford a Sam Peckinpah. I personaggi sono tratteggiati a tinte forti. Un capolavoro! Imperdibile e necessario per tutti gli amanti del West.
This collection includes the truly electrifying 3.10 to Yuma – a lean and word-perfect piece that shows the sheer power of author Elmore Leonard within a classic short story format.
To summarise The Complete Western Stories is a great book to dip into and out of and is essential reading for any western genre fan or anyone curious what Elmore Leonard did before he mastered the crime genre.
This short story collection shows another equally fascinating side of the great and much missed author.
A lot of reviews I had seen online warned that the book was too repetitive, being a collection of all the Westerns that Elmore Leonard wrote at the begging of his career (before moving on to his critically acclaimed crime novels).
However, I thought it was really enjoyable to see how Elmore Leonard diversified his characters and plots within the Western genre as his writing went on.
I initially bought this book mainly for the story "3:10 to Yuma", as the late 2000's movie of the same name is one of my favorite films, however I really ended up enjoying this book more for it's latter half where Leonard gets into more interesting characters and less typical action.
Elmore Leonard is one of the better pulp writers, his uncomplicated writing style is so easy and enjoyable to read.Again, it left me wondering how much of the way we imagine historical settings is affected by the society the writer was living in.
I specifically reference the difference in the way indigenous people were characterised pre WWII, where the "natives" were largely set dressing as the embodiment of animalistic danger, into the post WWII image of the noble savage, hard done by, and although not civilised, worthy of a degree of acknowledgement just short of respect.Still racist as fuck, but certainly progress.
Leonard's Western stories are largely about negotiating a kind of peace i the Wild West between its many factions. Even when his heroes are outlaws, they aren't looking to make trouble or cause harm - they do what they do deliberately and professionally, and keep to themselves. Rather, it's the rabble-rousers, ignorant townsfolk, and racists of every stripe that serve as villains. In this way, these are stories about peacemaking.Included in this volume is his "3:10 to Yuma", one of the finest Western short stories ever written - yet also one of the quietest, and most humane.
Fantastic. If you like to watch short western television shows before bed, turn off the television and get this book. The settings are so vivid you can almost want to squint against the desert glare. The characters are well defined, though sometimes you will wonder who is the actual villain. The ruggedness of the harsh Arizona climate, and the savagery of racial hatred are revealed under the bright Southwest sunlight. A good story leaves me feeling relaxed and ready for sleep even if the story has an unhappy ending. If it's told well, and these are.
I don't have enough opinions on the collection for a complete review. Overall I just felt the collection was too much a roller coaster of quality to say I had a positive time overall. There were definitely some highlights but the book overall seemed to take forever to finish because I would run into one long lone that was not very interesting and slogged through it. I would say only for dedicated Leonard and Western readers.
