https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5481.Brave_New_World_Revisited
Interestingly, Huxley also compares his own predictions with that of Orwell’s 1984.Huxley mainly focuses on two major problems of our present time: overpopulation and over-organization or “Will to Order”, i.e. the control — and even despotism — of “Big Business” and “Big Government” over the whole of society, and the subsequent waning of individual freedom, creativity and happiness.
34).Essentially, Brave New World depicts a society where power is exerted in the most despotic way, by feeding the people an evolved version of the Romans’ panis et circenses (feelies and orgy-porgy).
An essential read, not only to put Brave New World in perspective but to understand the world we live in now.
Authors such as George Orwell, Margaret Atwood and Aldous Huxley scare me.
How can these authors who write dystopian fiction or social commentaries 30, 40, even 50 years ago be so accurate in what is going on in today's society?
Huxley is basically summarizing the first book in this collection: Brave New World of which was published over 15 years before this one.
And along with a decline of average healthiness there may well go a decline in average intelligence."Huxley compares his work with George Orwell's 1984 and also goes into some scientific philosophy on mind-manipulation and hypnosis.To me, this book should be in every high school curriculum across the nation.
I picked up Huxley’s classic dystopian utopia Brave New World as part of my ongoing pursuit of the classics.
His analytical non-fiction follow-up (some thirty years after the novel) was included in the back of the paperback version I was reading, and it immediately piqued my interest, in some ways even more than the novel.
Although I ultimately disagree with much of Huxley’s worldview, this collection of essays–which analyzes the possibility and probability of the events in the novel–is fascinating, both as a glimpse into his writing process and from the hindsight viewpoint of a still further sixty years into his future.
Somewhere in this world there must be a good president or a nice prime-minister but in my country, that doesn't happen and in the USA it's all just a big scam.
This explanation of his was a good way for me of finding some new things about this world and starting to think about new ideas that didn't occur to me before.
The thing that Huxley did and I didn't like throughout this work is comparing his book with Orwell's from 20 to 20 pages.
Anyhow, this was a great book explaining  Brave New World  and I do think that it was a good idea of Huxley's to write this!
No doubt about it, Brave New World is an important book.
When I first read it in high school it was a revelation and a lot more accessible than 1984, which seemed kind of dark, dreary, and difficult at the time.
I picked up BNW for the first time since high school and found it unreadable after a certain point.
The characters are caricatures, the situations absurd, and the stabs at humor stilted and unfunny in that way only a towering intellect can be.
BNW just doesn't hold up on aesthetic grounds.Which is why I'm glad Huxley wrote Brave New World Revisited.
I am pleasantly surprised.
This book was a series of essays about certain social institutions that are slowly making the world more closely align with the future Huxley predicts in Brave New World.
I am not sure why Huxley is trying so hard to prove that his predictions are more likely to come true than George Orwell's 1984.
If you can get past the first couple of chapters, where Huxley's remarks about Africans, Asiatics and the illiterate masses leaves me thinking he was a pretty big jerk, you'll proceed through some fascinating (and fairly spot on) commentary about totalitarianism and propaganda and democracy, to a final paragraph that bemoans kids these days and their lack of dedication to freedom. So, it's overall a useful and interesting read, while being the product of its time.
Cesur Yeni Dünya'nın yazarı Huxley, büyük yankı uyandıran ütopik eserindeki tahayyül ve öngörülerinin ne oranda gerçekleşmekte olduğu üzerine bir güncelleme yayımlamış denilebilir.
Fazlaca özet olacak ama; baskıcı rejimlere zorla boyun eğen 1984 dünyasının insanlarının aksine, Cesur Yeni Dünyanın insanları karınları doyduğu ve acı çekmedikleri sürece (ya da acı çekmemek üzere) gönüllü olarak özgürlüklerinden feragat edebiliyorlardı.
Ütopyasının izlerini süren yazar, özgürlük problemi dahil birçok konuda zamanın kendisini haklı çıkardığı hatta ütopyasının öngördüğünden daha çabuk sürede gerçekleşeceğinin ipuçlarını verdiği belirtiyor.
Özgürlük için EğitimXII.
Ne Yapılabilir?Görüldüğü üzere neler döndüğünü ve gelişmelerin nelere gebe olduğunu öngören Huxley, son bölümde olası olumsuzluklara karşı neler yapılabileceği üzerine de kafa yoruyor.
Quis custodiet custodes? Mankind has always dreamed of the perfect society, just as it has always feared the oppressive one. From this dream has been born the fantasy of Utopia and from this fear the nightmare of Dystopia.But is Utopia truly the antithesis of Dystopia, and is it really an egalitarian society possible? From Thomas More to Karl Marx and H. G. Wells and many others, this perfect society generally abides by some rigid, unimaginative and sometimes implausible rules, the main one bei
But, as it has already been seen in all Communist countries, this invests the State with an incredible power over the individual, denying the latter its importance whilst overstressing the importance of the community.
Moreover, another form of totalitarianism, the Islamic terrorist State menaces to take over.Another danger results from the fight of the humankind with the natural selection: the medical discoveries reduce the mortality rate and overcrowd the Earth with flawed individuals: in his opinion, the decline of average healthiness may lead to a decline of average intelligence and this ethical dilemma is not easy to solve.
3,5*
I consider it a great supplement to any anti-utopian novel, to be read when initial shock is soothed and there is more room for clear thought.The fact that it was published in 1959 and sounds, for the most part, like the work of a modern-day social philosopher, doesn't surprise me any more.
Of course, as a presentation of personal thoughts, this book is slightly more partial than Brave New World, but largely the author stays true to his analytical self and does not judge.
Antes que nada aviso que este libro no fue lo que esperaba, y es que estaba segura que era una novela que continuaba con la historia de "Un mundo Feliz", pero en realidad es un análisis/ensayo crítico de la sociedad, y cómo lo que el autor presenta en su novela podría hacerse realidad en nuestro mundo dentro de este siglo.Huxley parte de la base más que aceptada de que estamos viviendo con un exceso de población que nos hace enfrentarnos a una seria cantidad de problemas.
Si a alguien le llama la temática seguro le encontrará algo interesante.
Using a combination of centralised control of reproduction and neo natal programming, a dictatorial regime in 'Brave New World' deprived an entire subservient mass of human beings of their free will and usurped their freedom of choice, thereby gaining their unquestioned loyalty and devotion to the workings of the regime.
Huxley also frequently draws parallel to George Orwell's '1984' to point out the direction in which the world is heading and concludes that the more rigorous and uncompromising methods adopted by Orwell's ubiquitous 'Big Brother' would not even be needed in an age where the ends may be accomplished by resorting to more sophisticated and ingenious means.
He also rants about the decline of society due to "allowing" disabled people to live, that society "allows" people with low IQs to breed, he talks of purity as if disabled population and sympathy for others is the problem, as if this way of thinking is not the very same dystopian conditions he wrote about and criticized in his book.I would like to note that the IQ system was developed for the primary purposes of presenting people of colour as innately less intelligent than white people.
Viewing a global population of 3 billion in horror, Huxley anticipated not only only mass starvation, but the rise of tyranny across the world.
Huxley's view of the city as a profoundly unnatural environment, one that induces mental diseases, is still argued -- see Desmond Morris' The Human Zoo. Modern readers of this will find, then, some of it dated but a great deal still relevant, as far as human psychology goes; whatever one makes of shifts in our mores, human nature has not changed since 1958.
Not only a companion to the Brave New World but it's even a great non-fiction about how our societies gets victimized towards dystopia under psychological techno-dictators.
This book explores the concepts of Brave New World, it talks about brain-washing and subliminal injection and how Hitler used these devices in propogandas, also about neo-pavlovian conditioning as applied by commercial brands and religious leaders.
It revolves around human-psychology and how herd-corruption takes place.Amazing thing being, Huxley extrapolated the contents of this entire book just from a single TV interview which he gave being disillusioned about how his fantasy can easily get real soon.
"Meanwhile there is still some freedom left in the world. Many young people, it is true, do not seem to value freedom. But some of us still believe that, without freedom, human beings cannot become fully human and that freedom is therefore supremely valuable. Perhaps the forces that now menace freedom are too strong to be resisted for very long. It is still our duty to do whatever we can to resist them."
I liked this collection of essays about the issues raised in BNW and 1984 better than I liked the novel itself.
Whether it is soft tyranny, as in "Brave New World", or it is despotic tyranny as in "1984", the human spirit is contained which begs to search for it's path to freedom.
Every person defines freedom in his or her way, so which ever way the forced tyranny is induced, the human spirit wants something else and something that will provide way out of that tyranny.I know, it is not a big book, but it took me a bit slower to read it, because I want to devour every word.
In July it will have been two years since I read Huxley's Brave New World (see my review here).
Hence, a.o., the smartphones, the gazillion apps, the sh*t that's played on the radio and television (numb the minds instead of stimulating them).So many years after BNW, Huxley wrote a non-fiction book on certain themes that were used in his fable.
But in some regions, the situation is improving for the better, little by little.To cut things short, whether you liked Brave New World (the story) or not, read Huxley's afterthoughts and compare them with how we're living today and have been living for the last x-years.
Brave New World Revisited is practically a how-to manual on running a dystopian city and distributing propaganda and enforcing the law.
The work of Huxley in Brave New World Revisited is nearly as brilliant as the first book itself.
Huxley’s excellence in Brave New World Revisited almost emits a feeling of intelligence simply from reading his words.
While the book happened to get stale and boring every once in a while, the ideas portrayed and the reasons behind them make Brave New World Revisited nothing to be ignored after reading the original novel, making it a great novel that I would recommend to fans of dystopian literature.

Creo que con solo leer el primer capítulo, le basta para las cinco estrellas.
Veo mucho de Sabato en Huxley; me pareció leer por varias ocasiones La resistencia.
Él también utiliza el modelo malthusiano como vertiente en esta dialéctica distópico-social, por lo que da inicio con un tema que aún es irresoluto: la demografía mundial.
Creo que leyendo este libro breve, comprendes a Huxley, y a todo ese trabajo que hizo referente a los medios de control, psicología de masas y también del "envenenamiento de rebaño", el cual me hizo acordar al correísmo que vive en mi país.
Una lectura breve que más que hablar del libro en sí, hace un análisis de los peligros que pueden llevarnos a una sociedad sobre "Un mundo feliz", desde un punto de vista liberal.
Pone la libertad individual por encima de todo.Pero creo que se contradice un poco, se pasa gran parte del libro hablando de las manipulaciones sociales y de sus preocupaciones por los demagogos, el control mental, la sobrepobalción y gobiernos autoritarios...
para al final darnos a entender que nuestro entorno social no nos moldea tanto.
Eso a mí me descolocó bastante, quizá en otra lectura le llegue a lo que quiso decir, pero de momento no me cuadra.
"Fără libertate fiinţele omeneşti nu pot deveni pe deplin umane şi deci libertatea este de nepreţuit."
In questo saggio, che Huxley scrive postumo a "Brave new world", ma che vuol essere l'argomentazione "a priori" delle sue tesi circa il mondo artefatto e dispotico da lui costruito, ho avuto il piacere di imbattermi nella lucida e brillante personalità di un uomo colto, che riesce ad addentrarsi nei meandri della nostra società, per portarne alla luce difetti, piaghe, calamità future.Egli suggerisce, infatti, che il nostro mondo racchiude, già nelle sue fondamenta, la malattia che ne decreterà la distruzione, ovvero quel progresso che tutti gli uomini si affanno a portare avanti, ma che come ultima meta prevede l'insorgere di una società totalitaria.La sovrappopolazione che vediamo crescere ogni giorno di più sotto i nostri occhi indaffarati, sta premendo sulle risorse naturali che la Terra ci può offrire.
I like Aldous Huxley, I am about to read his collection of essays, he has logical points of view...
Despite everything this left me like my geography teacher leaves me all the time:' No fucking shit!'Yes, I did find it gripping at times, yes I think that those were revelations, points to start from of a great deal for almost everyone by then but 'Coulda, woulda, shoulda' does not actually fit me at the moment.
That's because my love, Huxley, could not put a bigger quote there but one so cropped that I was left with a 'Sounds interesting...
His words, paraphrased, that you don't have to wage war against people anymore to take away their freedom - you simply have to convince them that for the sake of their own security it is better to give away their freedom - then they are willing slaves to a system and the battle is won.This book used to be required reading when I went to school - I hope it still is today and that it hasn't been replaced by something less controversial.
Read it people - Huxley was way ahead of his time.

Unlike the original novel, this book is actually a collection of essays exploring the topics discussed in the original book Brave New World.
This book was written 25 years later, and Huxley expresses his astonishment at not only how accurate much of his speculation/prediction was, but just how quickly things had changed.
This book makes more sense to read, of course, after the novel it is based on.
It's fairly light reading, and I recommend it to anyone interested in the novel or in social science, science fiction, or American history of that era (as it seems to capture the prevailing sentiments well).
