https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2373.The_Bone_Collector
I think I found a new favorite series. Rhymes mind is crazy brilliant. And I love the dynamics between him and Sachs. They make a great team, they're ingenious together.
I read this book in record time for me and was captivated.
Jeffery Deaver was the first real author I had ever read and he left an impression on me that has caused me to be the avid reader I am today.
I searched so hard years later to find a hardback first edition of this book and found one.
Last year I met Deaver for the first time and had him sign my copy.
The victims are left in some of the most grisly situations and the suspense is so intense I had a hard time sitting still.
Fantastic series! an engrossing,entertaining,fast-paced,plot-twister of a series..Lincoln Rhyme is just stunning in this mystery,with all his brain power than he has to rely on..action-pact (paperback!)
Rhyme' is in a very dark place and has a date with Dr. Berger of the Lethe Society (death doctor) - and he's adamant that nothing is going to change his mind.He gradually gets interested (though he still wants to die), and requests the officer who found the first victim, Amelia Sachs, be brought in - as she showed ingenuity - by sealing off the crime scene.
Mel Cooper, turns Rhyme's bedroom into a mini lab, so he does a lot of tests on the samples collected by Sachs' from different crime scenes.
Awesome start to a new crime detective series for me!Lots of plot twists and I really loved the characters of Lincoln Rhyme, Amelia Sachs and Thom.
I definitely plan on continuing with the books.The forensics was excellent and very detailed in this book along with the clues to catch "The Bone Collector".
The action was gripping and the suspense of the book was great.I loved the whole cat and mouse chase of this book to get to the next victim.
The ending was epic with who the killer was and the beginning of another search for the next impending disaster.Excellent writing, characters and unforgettable plot twists!
My #6 Read of 2014    Awesome, Awesome, Awesome - 5 Stars  I contemplated adding a few more Awesomes to the review heading but I didn't want to overdo it. I read this as part of Book Pal challenge in one of my Goodreads groups. I have a tendency to read crime and mystery fiction written outside of North America or by lesser known authors. Given that I am apparently some pretentious snob, I assume that the more popular an author is, the more watered down and crowd pleasing the story will be. Je
Suffice to say, it is compelling read that fuses an exciting mystery while touching on some compelling social issues.The story's protagonist is Lincoln Rhyme, a criminalist/Crime Scene Investigator/Forensic Expert.
In this novel, Lincoln Rhymes in on a quest to have his own suicide assisted and we are privy to the characters mindset and internal struggle in getting to that point.
The dynamic between the characters is unique as Sachs is essentially the eyes, ears and hands for Rhymes who can no longer walk a crime scene.
It may have been that I was so taken up in reading the book that I did not notice adult language.
Everyone was right...
I don't know how Deaver did it, but you really feel what it's like to be his character; all trials and tribulations.
I do have to admit that, after watching the movie, I believe that Denzel and Angelina played their characters very well.The novel isn't just fast-paced, it's lightening speed!
So many twists, turns, suspense and action, you can't help reading it until waaay after the midnight hour.
Snap, snap, snap, one thing right after another.
This is one of the best novels I've read.
Can't wait to read more of Deaver's work!

THERE WILL BE SPOILERS THROUGHOUT THIS REVIEW  18/8 - I have seen the movie a number times so I know who the killer is, but I can't remember his exact motive, so at least there'll be one surprise for me at the end. I really enjoyed the movie and was always disappointed that there weren't further instalments in the series. For me, Angelina Jolie is Amelia and Denzel Washington is Lincoln Rhyme (funny that they've both got American president's names), they are now inextricably linked. I will nev
I will never be able to think about Rhyme or Sachs without seeing them as the actor's portrayals of them.I'm loving the extra details I'm getting from the book that weren't included in the movie due to time constraints.
Only Lincoln and the general idea of the story are carried over from the book to the movie.I really enjoyed the frantic pace injected into the 'evidence examining' scenes by the constant pressure of getting to the victims before they die.
I think I might enjoy the next book even more than this one, not having any preconceived notions of the plot, except for what Rhyme and Amelia look like.PopSugar 2015 Reading Challenge: A Mystery of Thriller
It's a page-turner, and to Deaver's credit, the extensive scenes about collecting and analyzing crime scene trace evidence rarely get boring.
I'm willing to accept the elaborate murder methods, the exacting evidence collection, and the rapid clue-solving because they're the point of the novel.
I accept that Lincoln Rhyme is a superhuman genius up against a larger-than-life serial killer because that's what makes this worth reading.
Then there's the climax (including a revelation whose essence I saw coming but whose details I didn't, which was a nice bit of misdirection), in which Lincoln Rhyme does something I still can't imagine being possible for a human being let alone a quadriplegic.It's a good airplane book.
4.5 StarsI've read several of novels in Jeffery Deaver's Lincoln Rhyme Series, but never The Bone Collector.
Lincoln Rhyme was a genius in Forensics when he worked for NYPD until a serious accident left him a cripple (Rhyme's word).
But the case returns to Rhyme and his team and now it's a race to stop "the bone collector."I really enjoyed the book and it's so much different than the movie, thank goodness.
The pace of the novel is heart pounding fast for both the reader and characters.
And I loved that we got to see "the bone collector's" POV.
And I love Lincoln Rhyme the most!
4.5Devo decisamente rivalutare i thriller che ho letto fino ad ora, questo è di un altro livello.
Exciting, powerful and thrilling, The Bone Collector is an unforgettable crime novel with one of the most interesting characters I've ever read of in the genre.
(I must add that for as many good/great writers, there are an equal number of not so good writing, due in part, to self publishing of ebooks, I believe.) And surprise, folks, I have another protagonist to put on my list of series I’m reading, Detective (retired) Lincoln Rhyme and gratefully, there are only six or so.
I say greatfully because I’m running quite a few series and characters I’m reading, checking them off one by one, slowly but surely.
I. or Vic" Warshawski) •	Jeffery Deaver (Lincoln Rhyme)I need to do myself a favorite and just stop adding authors/protags to the list and finish up the ones I’ve already started.
This book is taking me longer to read because I am enjoying looking up criminologist terms I do not know.
The rat scene with Morella was horrible.
She is getting better at walking the gird (crime scene).
As for Lincoln Rhyme, for a man who only has use of his mind, one finger, head, and shoulders, he has it going on.
A mind is a terrible thing to waste and Lincoln Rhyme is not wasting his.
I didn't plan on it." "Yes, well I had other plans too," Lincoln Rhyme said, "Now, let's look at some evidence.""Cover you?
Oh my goodness what a ride I didn’t watch the movieBut enjoyed the 37 chapters that Deaver wrote Sculpted The story line The cast The deduction and clues And finally the unsub
At the beginning of this book, I wondered if it would really be possible for Deaver to take a quadraplegic who is planning suicide and make him into a credible main character.
I wasn't too certain of how much I would like Amelia when she was so obviously against helping with Lincoln's investigation and caused it to be taken over by the FBI.
From the beginning, I thought that she was a strong character, and when she turned up with the evidence that the FBI had taken, I began to like her immensely.
I enjoyed the dynamics between Lincoln and Amelia and thought that they made a great team.
One problem was that when I sent in an anonymous suggestion that she warn students of the level of sexual violence in one of the books, she responded that students shouldn't be such "fragile little flowers", and should have expected it on a course about crime.
I think if you know the ending or have a mind like Rhyme's you could keep following the evidence, but I stuck to the human interactions...In any case, I enjoyed reading it, and while I'm sure that there are quibbles to be had with the portrayal of disability, I thought it was a solid effort.
5 saoMôt cuôn truyên trinh tham tuyêt vơi!Cuôn sach nay se lam thoa man nhưng ai yêu thich tinh tri tuê, suy luân, ti mi nhưng con ngai cai không gian bưc bôi, khep kin cua trinh tham cô điên.
Va cung se lam hai long nhưng ai say mê sư ly ky, mao hiêm, nhưng ky thuât mơi la, tiên tiên cua dong trinh tham hiên đai, nhưng cung đa chan sư khoa trương, chi mang bê nôi cua dong sach nay.Phai noi la co rât it cuôn sach ma minh cam thây không chê chô nao đươc như quyên nay.
Hê thông nhân vât cua sach r
Tác giả có một kiến thức rất phong phú (dù mình không biết có chính xác hay không :p) về các tổ chức chuyên sâu điều tra tội phạm của chính phủ Mỹ, cùng cách tả những cảnh đang hoạt động của họ rất thú vị, làm mình có cảm giác đang là một người đứng tại đó quan sát vậy.Còn về phần khám nghiệm hiện trường, nội dung chính trong việc điều tra, được mô tả rất chi tiết, đặc biệt là nhờ tình huống nhân vật "được" đưa đi khám nghiệm hoàn toàn không biết gì về chuyên môn, phải nhờ sự chỉ dẫn từ căn bản của Rhyme, cũng cho phép người đọc tiếp cận với lĩnh vực thú vị này từ những nguyên tắc căn bản nhất.
Like many book-to-movie adaptions, the film version of The Bone Collector cannot be compared to the terror Jeffery Deaver creates in this chilling novel.The Bone Collector is the first in a series of books about Lincoln Rhyme, a forensic criminalist who had to leave his beloved job in the police force after an accident left him paralysed from the neck down.Depressed by his life as a quadriplegic, Lincoln is planning his suicide… until his old partner calls him with news of a murder.
The killer has a mind for forensics, and he leaves staged clues at the scene of every crime that point to the location of his next victim.
I do have quite a few of Mister Deavers books about Lincoln Rhyme aand when I read this book first CSI and their ilk had not yet caught the interest of the general viewing public.
It was still a few years away actually.Lincoln Rhyme's, a quadriplegic forensic criminalist, first outing in which he meets an Amalia Sachs who will be his partner in many ways in the series that would follow this book.
Deaver is a terrific storyteller. and he takes the reader on a rollercoaster of teeth chattering suspense and mystery. Plotting were brilliant. Everyone was right, the book is way better than the movie. It's a page-turner, and to Deaver's credit, the extensive scenes about collecting and analyzing crime scene trace evidence rarely get boring. The pace is terrific. This book is indeed ticking bomb suspense.
So I watched the movie the other night (I know, I know) and I had no idea this was a book until it said so in the credits!My local bookshop has this on sale for £2.99. I may be on a book-buying ban but my mum isn't. *PUPPY EYES*
Having watched the movie before reading the book, it wasn't difficult to get through.
However, the forensics as it is written can get pretty confusing.
Now having read what Rhyme was going through, I'd have seriously thought of assisted suicide myself.
I suppose I did have a hard time not thinking of Denzel Washington while reading this novel and really wished some other actor played the part in the movie.
The suspense is there, but when you have to concentrate on the in's and out's of forensics, you can lose some of the anticipation that is supposed to build.
Having read all of Deaver's Lincoln Rhyme novels I thought it would be nice to go back to the first one & remind myself how it all began. However, with a huge TBR pile to contend with (well, who doesn't ?!) I went for the shorter audio version.Kerry Shale does a good job as narrator & the story still holds up well after twenty years. Deaver may use the same formula time & again in future stories, but he is undeniably skilled at building tension worthy of a Hitchcock movie.
Per la precisione: 4,75 ★Questa recensione è presente anche sul blog: http://thebooksblender.altervista.org...Arrivo un po' tardi a leggere questo libro (considerato che sono un'avida lettrice di thriller) e ammetto d'aver ritardo a scrivere questa recensione, perché...Deaver scopre subito le sue carte: un folle assassino particolarmente affascinato dalle ossa, un (ex)poliziotto tetraplegico intenzionato a farla finita con la sua vita e una poliziotta nel posto sbagliato (poveraccia, si ritrova davanti una mano scarnificata, il cui proprietario è stato interrato… non una bella scena) con l'artrite cronica.
Forensics was definitely the main plus-point of this book.
Its graphic scenes of torture were definitely its biggest drawback.
Ugh. It's a shame as the author clearly did a lot of research into forensics and some of that was interesting (although it still wasn't water-tight, there were some little mistakes).
I have definitely been put off reading this particular author again.
Il libro verte su un arco di tempo che va dalle 22.30 di venerdì alle 22.00 di lunedì.
Sono quasi quarantott’ ore in cui succede di tutto!Sei persone tra morti e rapiti:T.
J. Colfax e Tammie Jean, Monelle Gerger, William Everett, la ragazza che faceva jogging, Carole Ganz e Pammye pure Amelia Sachs.Innamoramenti.Corse in auto all’ americana con tanto di incidente colpendo la solita sfortunata edicola.Indagini a manetta.Scoperta dell’ assassino.A trovargli un pregio direi che ispiri alla prima parola ed espiri all’ ultima pagina.A trovargli un difetto direi che a me i superuomini, superintelligentoni, arroganti non sono mai piaciuti.Anche fin troppo “cinematografico”, ma si fa leggere.
Mnogo, mnogo bolje od filma. Mnogo paznje posveceno detaljima, pristojno uradjeni karakteri i odlicna jeziva atmosfera.
Thám tử bây giờ nằm một chỗ, nhìn dấu giày, phân tích các loại bụi, và hàng hà sa số các thể loại những điều bé tí xíu khác mà tưởng chừng như vô hại, lại có thể phá án.
Thật là kì diệu mà huhu :((( Đọc đi các bạn, mình thề là cuốn sách này hay lắm, hay tới nỗi mình không biết review cho nó thế nào, cứ chần chừ mãi, cuối cùng lại thành ra cái review ngắn cũn cỡn thế này :((( Nhưng mình THỀ là nó TUYỆT VỜI, thiệt luôn!
