https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/314084.Jesus_Christ_and_Mythology
این بدان معنا نیست که انسان باستانی خود از استعاری بودن اساطیر آگاه بود، بلکه خود او هم از ماهیت استعاری اساطیر ناآگاه بود، زیرا خارج از چهارچوب مفاهیم اسطوره ای نمی توانست بیندیشد تا به استعاری بودن اساطیر پی ببرد.علاوه بر این، همچنان که زمانی گالیله هم گفته بود، متون مقدس به دنبال بیان این یا آن نظریه راجع به آغاز و پایان جهان نیستند، بلکه مقصود اصلی این متون مخاطب قرار دادن اشخاص انسانی و فراخواندن آن ها به نوع خاصی از زندگی است، و اگر مطابق این یا آن جهان بینی اسطوره ای اند، فقط به خاطر آن است که اذهان مردم آن زمان در چهارچوب این جهان بینی اسطوره ای می اندیشید و هر چه مخالف آن بود را بی گفتگو انکار می کرد.حال که وضع چنین است، ما هم برای فهم مقصود واقعی متون مقدس باید پردهٔ اسطوره را کنار بزنیم و آن مضامین انتزاعی پشت پرده را ببینیم.
It's in his understanding of mythology that Bultmann starts to get into trouble, because he doesn't distinguish between hermeneutics (the idea that all interpretations have to begin from a series of assumptions or biases), and existentialism, the idea that Man is Confronted By His Existence as a Question and so on: from a later perspective, he can't see that there's a difference between early Heidegger and later Gadamer.
Luckily you can demythologize Bultmann himself: yes, readers must 'interpret' the bible.
This book is lucid and brief, in the argument for the demythologization of the New Testament and in the exposition of the notion that exegesis is never without presupposition.
Another thing Bultmann makes clear, very usefully, is that there is a difference between discussing existential realities and existentialist philosophy: the former has to do with personal encounters and the historicity of humanity while the latter has to do with the formal properties and the meaning of existence.
I'd recommend it to anybody interested in biblical exegesis and the problem of the concept of God.
Rudolf Bultmann asks great questions concerning the contemporary import of the 2,000 year old proclamation that Jesus is Lord.
What are the issues for "modern" man to proclaim, to understand and to respond to that message?
How does "modern" man relate to "ancient" man without collapsing into C.S. Lewis' chronological snobbery?
What is religious myth and how do we determine it from historical fact?
What, why and how is de-mythologizing?
This is a quick but potent read.
A book that will stay with me as long as I live.
Not for the answers given but for the questions raised.
A must read for some.
I got a friend who's been drinking deep from the Rudy Bultmann lately. This is a set of lectures he gave in the 50s? I think.In this primer of demythologizing Rudy introduces readers to his hermeneutical program in which he extinguishes unhelpful christological approaches to the scripture including scientific modern one. He's a dynamite writer and to quote one friend, "not my father's bultmann." give Rudy a fair shake.
A fascinating yet easy read. The final chapter The Meaning of God as Acting is worth the five stars alone. Do I agree with Bultmann in everything? (that modernity demands we de-mytholgize the New Testament to the extent that he proposes, or in his seeming rejection of metaphysical statements about God or the afterlife) NO. But a brilliant book on Christianity from an existentialist perspective. For the afterlife I recommend Unamuno.
I used to despise Bultmann's existentialist approach to hermeneutics; this is no longer the case. This is a really short (and easy) work in which Bultmann outlines his project of demythologization. To understand Modern theology, Bultmann is a must read.
Very academic
I liked this. I agreed more or less, and I appreciated the readability. I just think it could have been put together better.
Jag antar att om man har en poäng väldigt tydlig för sig och man har varit tvungen att försvara den ett antal gånger så kan man renodla den poängen på ett sådant tydligt och klargörande sätt som Bultmann gör.Vad är poängen då?
Bultmann kopplar samman detta med kerygma, predikan kan man säga och jag kan tycka att det är precis vad den här sortens hermeneutik är.
Det går inte att läsa precis allt som man har en åsikt om, men för den som läser den här boken tror jag att man får tänka efter lite vad man tror att avmytologisering handlar om.
For a so-called "ephoch-making" work wrestling with amongst other things Jesus Christ and mythology (duh), a search for a Biblical hermenuetic, eschatalogy, and the philosophical impact of Heidegger this is a surprisingly short and simple read.Personally, I have read much about Bultmann but had yet to read any of his works.
Had I known how simple he was to read I might have started earlier as I found this book engagging and a delight to read.Still, one must not mistake simplicity with a lack of profundity or complexity.
Bultmann is simple but complex.
This is one of many books purchased while at Union Theological Seminary in New York City, but unread until back in Chicago years later. Bultmann, having been important both in Grinnell College's Religion Department and at UTS, was an author I'd always pick up when I'd find a new title in one of the used bookstores near Columbia University on Broadway.This is one of the author's attempts to portray what we can say about Jesus' message with reasonable certainty after all the later encrustations are removed. It is conservative, yes, but still Bultmann does reach some important conclusions.
Meh. I didn't really buy most of his premises, and thus can't accept his argument or conclusions. He seems to be looking at everything from exclusively a post-enlightenment materialistic view, at the expense of the actual text he claims to be supporting. So, he's reading "the bible" instead of listening to the witness in the bible of the men who wrote it: Moses, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Paul, Jesus, etc....
Overall poor argumentation. Bultmann presents some excellent ideas, but has to often distort them to fit his thesis, and often states that he has drawn a conclusion without sufficiently or clearly explaining from which premises it was drawn. Overall disappointing given the latent potential of the text.
Very smart guy, very tightly woven argument... not persuasive to me though. He is a stepping stone in hermeneutics, nothing to end on, but something one should read and be familiar with, many good points.
just to say I read it
Don't let the title fool you. The book is not meant to debunk Christianity. It just gives another method of interpretation in which anyone may extract the truths found in scripture.
A classic.
