https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254310.Washington
8 pages per chapter, roughly.The structure of Washington: The Indispensable Man was perfect for this reader.
I read one or two chapters per sitting and never strayed from the path into a forest of detail.I have longed to read about Washington for several years, but not got round to it.
The shop was full of celebrity cook books and diet books I noted on my way out - bookless.I know Washington discomforted more than one important Britisher, in fact he founded his whole career on discomforting us.
I felt as if I knew Washington as I read those 52 chapters.
James Thomas Flexner wrote a very detailed 4 volume biography of Washington.
Then, I beleive at a publishers request, he took the core parts of the four volumes and published a one volume biography.It is very, very good.
First, one long volume of almost 400 words is still more accessible to the general reader than a four voume biography.
Third, the reasearch is very well done.If you really want to know more about Wahsington , the man, instead of Washington, the legend this is an excellent starting point.
There are parts that are a bit difficult to read, but well worth the reader's effort.
A classic Presidential biography, it brings George Washington to life.
The author takes Washington off his marble pedestal wand puts on a horse, racing through a storm of bullets during the French and Indian War. And so the journey begins.
This book explains why Washington was great, glorious and, above all, selfless.
More than anyone else he kept the Revolution alive.
Yet, despite treachery, betrayal and the incompetence of his political masters in Congress, Washington prevailed.
This story, and that of Washington's precedent-setting presidency are wonderfully related by a gifted historian.
Read this and you'll never think of Washington as a marble statue again.
I'm embarrassed to admit the limited knowledge I had of George Washington prior to reading this book.
The vision of a nostalgic, white haired man and the memory of my playing the part of Martha Washington in elementary school were about the extent of it.
He had risked his life numerous times while dodging bullets in battle and had kept our country together psychologically during its most critical moments of formation.
This book did an excellent job in conveying the depth of his character and the extent of what he did for our country.
This was required reading for a history course that I was enrolled in a few years back, but I ended up dropping the course and never sold the texts back.
It is an interesting and relatively short biography on George Washington; at 400 pages, it is MUCH shorter than Flexner's FOUR VOLUME long version.
I especially enjoyed the sections that highlighted Washington's childhood and early adult life as well as his post-Presidency years.
My only issue with this book is that Flexner seemed to have significant distaste for John Adams, which was evident whenever he was mentioned in the text.
Flexner's survey of the life of the United States' first President is a contracted version of his earlier four volume biography of Washington.
The author faced a considerable challenge in distilling the content of the original work into a single book, and ultimately falls short.
This history adopts a quasi-scholarly tone that denudes from narrative excitement, yet has very little historical context aside from an outline of the philosophical dispute between Hamilton and Jefferson.
This unhappy compromise between scholarship and story-telling makes Flexner's book an unsatisfactory effort, but as compensation, there are some pleasant pictures of Washington's effects and Mount Vernon.
Flexner wrote a massive four volume biography of Washington, which he then condensed into this more approachable 400 page book.
As the subtitle, The Indispensible Man indicates, Flexner places Washington in his keystone role in the history of America.
In large part, he did what few others could, and well-earned his place in history.Flexner deserves credit for earnestly engaging with the slavery issue at the end of the book, as I was waiting for it to come up.
Washington was born into a slave society, but in Flexner's account, slowly turned against it.
I learned a lot about George Washington from this book - his character, integrity, dedication, kindness, challenges, as well as his just being human.
I also learned things I didn't know about the Revolutionary War and Washington's struggles as he served two terms as president.
My love and respect for him is even greater than it was before, and I believe he and Abraham Lincoln are the two greatest presidents we've ever had.
I also firmly believe that he was led and directed by God, and that his life was preserved to help establish the United States of America.
Deeply interesting, if not entertaining, history of the man behind the myth. Full of his blunders and failures, strength, feeling, humility and even petty pride, Washington is portrayed ultimately as deeply human and often noble.
This one volume version of that work seems to strike a good balance between the critical and admiring and, based on primary sources, from what I can tell, deserves to be put among those "historically sound." It's certainly well-written, fascinating and made me appreciate why Flexner subtitled this biography of Washington "The Indispensable Man" and why he claimed in his Introduction Washington was a "great and good man." I thought I knew fairly well the basic outline of George Washington's life and of the Revolutionary and Federal period, but this book gave me a new appreciation of all that is owed to Washington--not just by Americans, but by all who support a republican form of government.
Flexner dedicated his professional career to creating an accurate and thorough biography of George Washington.
I learned some pretty incredible things about our first president, like his mental deterioration in his old age, his secret freeing of his slaves, his possible flirtations with a married woman.
Like all popular biographies today (although, granted, this text was written fifty years ago), the author sought to write about the man as though he weren't an icon, but an actual human being.
Even with this perspective, I know George Washington to be an incredible, outstanding patriarch of a new country, with all the necessary intelligence, bravery, and strength to see the new country form.
I loved getting to know the personality of the father of our country! He was disciplined, kind, generous, and loved living elegantly. This book was well written and intellectually stimulating -(I picked up many new vocabulary words.) I discovered President Washington was preserved by God on numerous occasions to lead our country. I learned that while he was remarkable, he was not perfect and yet he is someone that Americans can be proud of!
While I respect the work that Flexner has done, his inability to understand Alexander Hamilton and his refusal to set aside academically accepted predjudices of the man bothers me greatly.However, he gives the reader a coheasive view of who George Washington - the man - was. And I think that is wonderful
This is a good broad view of the life of the MAN George Washington rather than the mythological figure with which most people are familiar. Beginning with life in England the reader has an opportunity to see what changes take place in his life as he develops the philosophy from which Washington will govern.
Washington--interesting. Book--meh.
Based upon a more detailed and scholarly four-volume study of Washington by the same author, “The Indispensable Man” makes a coherent and highly readable argument for its title.
By the end of Washington’s two terms as president, Americans had already divided into hostile camps whose differences are still recognizable in our political parties today.
He had little formal education, but this American founder (like others of the time) wrote with a sophistication and elegance even in his personal communications that few members of our elites could manage on their own today.I have one criticism of the book.
While surfing the net looking for a general consensus on who has written the best book on Washington, Flexner's four-volume biography popped up on most of the lists I consulted.
The writing is fluid and was just about the right length for my needs, although probably too superficial for Washington buffs.
The power he found himself with after The American Revolution was a burden - managing the competing interests of Federalist and Republicans was probably as tough as anything the British threw at him.
Ultimately the book made me appreciate that such a decent man was the Father of Our Country.
Everyone has heard basic stories about Waashington, but I really needed to learn more about the man who was the first president who could have been a king, but proved everyone wrong.
Especially with the awful man we currently have in the White House, we need to remember the good men who despite their fragilities, still managed to bring a new country into its own.
He absolutely knew what needed to be done in almost everything.
He was an excellent diplomat...rather than a politician, he knew how to handle people and handle a country.
If you want a more detailed biography read the larger work or read Gladstone's.
Where this book is strong is highlighting GW the man.
It is a good reminder that much of what we complain about now is not really new.
You want "Fake-news'?
How about Jefferson and Hamilton both using state funds to start papers to bash the other side?
What makes this portrait of Washington so great is that it shows that we can become what he was, a good man with flaws, who strove to make the right choice, not just for him, but for mankind.
It put real flesh and blood and humanity on people who previously had just been topics in H.S. History class, and the complexities of the building of a nation.
Washington was very human, with his own foibles, but what a remarkable life he led in service to this young nation.
Now I may have to read more about the key players in this book....Hamilton, Jefferson, Adams, Monroe, etc, etc....to ascertain their point of view during those amazing times.
The birth of this nation is truly a startlingly amazing combination of circumstances and, as Washington would say, Providence.
This was a good book to pick on Washington if you want to get a book that gives you a good general look at the life and times of the man who lead the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War and then went on to become our 1st President.The important moments of his life and the impacts that he had on both the war and the founding of our nation are covered, but the pace is pretty quick in how most things are covered.
Additionally, there was a chapter on how Washington felt about being a slaveholder, and how the first man to be President of the free United States dealt with his slaves.
Mostly what I heard of Washington was during the RevolutionWashington had a sensitivity about him.
He had little schooling and the other important characters tended to look down on him because of a lack in formal education.
He was obviously a bright person and got input from his advisors before stating an opinion.
He was against slavery, though this is how he was raised.
It hit him in his later years and he was trying to prepare his slaves for emancipation upon his death.
I'm sure this did not all go well.
Because the forces in society did not want this to work.
Fascinating story.

Flexner's abbreviated version of his four-volume biography of Washington is an acceptable piece of writing, but it lacks the nuances and insights of the larger work. While I understand that everyone does not need all the gory details his special Pulitizer work provides and, as he states, this version was pretty much re-written using all the research, it just is not as satisfying a read. It is just too watered-down.On the other hand, if the reader is looking for more narrative than analysis, this could be just the ticket.
Much interesting informationI enjoyed this book. I learned many things about Washington that I didn’t know, though I have read other books about him. His later life was particularly interesting to me. His awkward relationship with John Adams surprised me and his thoughts on slavery were fascinating. His increasing senility was a subject I had not encountered before. I did think that the book ended abruptly. I would like to have had some description of his burial and even a paragraph or two about reactions to his death by others. Highly recommended!
Highly recommendedI had only the vaguest notions of Washington as a man, plus a slightly better idea of him as officer and President, before picking up this volume. The author presents a rounded, human, and thoroughly convincing portrait of a basically simple man dealing with complex times, conflicting personalities, and the weight of history. You will understand Washington and why he was truly “the Indispensable Man”. A triumph.
Washington: The Indispensable Man is a great Biography on, the first president of the United States of America, George Washington's life. The book is a concise 450 pages. This is a short work considering some of the other books describing Washingtons life. This book provides his entire life, from birth to death, and in good detail.
Interesting read on the "father" of my country. He truly was the indispensable man. His ability to rise above the politics of the day and quietly influence different sides of arguments was the exact formula needed to keep the infant nation from ripping apart.
This was an in-depth account of the rise and life of George Washington
Get to know George Washington. Read this book.
