https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11734.The_Human_Stain
With what he called ‘the language of Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Dickens.’ With the English language that no one could ever take away from you and that Mr. Silk richly sounded, always with great fullness and clarity and bravado, as though even in ordinary conversation he were reciting Marc Antony’s speech over the body of Caesar.”I don’t think he took it seriously.
I believe the term came into usage as a way to scare white children (a ghost that would get them) who had never seen a black person.
Regardless, it does exist and any reasonable well educated person knows the word as a derogatory term when referring to people of color.
Το "στίγμα",η κοινοτοπία του κακού, υπάρχει πριν την ύπαρξη της ανθρώπινης υπόστασης και διαιωνίζεται μέσα απο αυτή.
Ο καθηγητής Κόλμαν είναι ο άνθρωπος που πάλεψε μετην ιεροτελεστία της προσωπικής του κάθαρσης και νικήθηκε.
Αναφέρεται σε δυο μονίμως απόντες μαθητές που δεν γνωρίζει καν πως είναι νέγροι αφού δεν τους έχει δει ποτέ.Αναγκάζεται να παραιτηθεί και χάνοντας τη σύζυγο του χάνει τα πάντα.
Ο Κόλμαν εξομολογείται στον Ζούκερμαν ότι μετά το στιγματισμό του και τη διάλυση της οικογένειας του έχει συνάψει ερωτική σχέση με μια αναλφάβητη καθαρίστρια που ηλικιακά θα μπορούσε να είναι εγγονή του, η οποία είναι μια ακόμη τραγική φιγούρα σε αυτή την παράσταση της κάθαρσης.
2010: not so bad after all.Roth meshes history with modern tragedy; parallels that* with the goings on of a disgraced college professor; the torrid love affair is placed in the backdrop; the national consciousness is the Theme, as is the sadness in people living (or pretending to live) in modern times.
All characters are worthy of at least a few tears for Roth has so faithfully captured how the country fucks people over (and over, & over) and how the price of freedom means the loss of something perhaps as equally important.If the film is above average, then the novel, a modern Bovary-esque tale with so much personality and imbedded tragedy in it to make it worthy of a faithful readership for the decades that are to come, (so modern and CLASSIC it is!) is quite simply (no joke) FLAW-LESS.
Hey Roth, I know you have a great vocabulary...Just tell me a damn story.
Let me explain: I just read a very positive review of this book stating that Roth has such an expansive vocabulary, and every word seems painstakingly chosen, etc.
For the record, I have a pretty good vocabulary and I thorouoghly enjoy creative uses of the English language.
But I despise the use of overly academic, deliberately "highbrow" language when something simple would tell the story better.
The problem is NOT that I didn't understand this book, it is that the plot just does not flow at all.
I will miss the lusty old tale-hound.“I'm very depressed how in this country you can be told 'That's offensive' as though those two words constitute an argument.” Christopher HitchensColeman Silk, a professor of classics at a local esteemed college, has been accused of racism by two African American students in one of his classes, after he notices upon calling roll that these two enrolled students never attend his class, and mumbles : "Do they exist or are they spooks?" Roth brilliantly uses the most ambiguous of words due to its several legitimate meanings compared to the one meaning racially derogatory to African Americans.
للحق , الأدب الأمريكي هو أقل الآداب إثارة للاهتمام بالنسبة لي , فلا يغامرني تجاهه ذلك الفضول القاتل 
Roth goes on and on by using every single adjective he ever learned in his SAT class, in a row, then completely counters every argument he just made, so he can use all the opposite words he knows.
He does it constantly himself- in the authors own narration- as if his point wasnt already so obfuscated you have to go back through 2 pages, six dashes, a dozen commas, a hanful of ellipses to find where the sentence begins and remember what he was talking about.
Here's what I know: if a book features some old dude fucking some younger lady, check the author's age.
This book is occasionally written very well, but it also has the young lady dancing naked for like 20 pages while she babbles about free love.
The entire canon, as it was agreed on at some point by a bunch of old guys and their penises, is full of stories like this.
It sounds interesting, but the problem is that Philip Roth thinks it's a metaphor.He thinks it's a metaphor because he keeps getting accused of being an asshole.
Of course Philip Roth isn't Coleman Silk.
Philip Roth dealing with serious topics at this noveldiscrimination, shame, identity, and judging othersthe human between the truth, rumors and illusionshow hard to truly know someoneand how hard to live in a circle of lying and anger lying to be accepted in a discriminatory community, and being angry for doing so
Ci sono quei libri che si insinuano all’interno del tuo consolidato nido di credenze, idee, saperi, pregiudizi, convinzioni - che hai fortificato con fatica e scrupolosa dedizione in vent’anni di scuola, vita familiare, cadute e ripartenze sentimentali - e sai già che non c’è più nulla da fare.
E tutta quella storia sulla necessità del testimone - perché il resoconto della faccenda qui ci viene fornito dallo scrittore Nathan Zuckerman - è una grossa panzana e qui si sta parlando di un meraviglioso alter ego.
The characters here are vibrant and real, the descriptions terrifying at times but always captivating, I found it hard putting this book down as I was relentlessly driven to want to know what happened - the mark of truly great writing.
If you have never read Roth, you can safely start with this one or American Pastoral and you will definitely want more.I just watched the movie from 2003 starring Anthony Hopkins as Coleman, Nicole Kidman as Faunia, Gary Sinise as Zuckerman and Ed Harris as Les. It is a wonderful and accurate rendition of the book for the silver screen.
It can be watched before or after reading the book, but I would suggest reading the book first.
Once you start, you can't stop.” ― Philip Roth, The Human StainReading Roth is almost a spooky, sexual experience.
I say that knowing this will sound absurd, trite and probably hyperbolic.
I'm not sure who Roth sold his soul to, but Roth's run of Novels: Operation Shylock (1993) Sabbath's Theater (1995) >> American Pastoral (1997) >> I Married a Communist (1998) >> The Human Stain (2000) can only be thought of as the greatest run of novels produced by ANY writer at anytime.
Maybe.
For me, these five novels, ending with The Human Stain are the apex of 20th Century writing.
Impurità, crudeltà, abuso, errore, escremento, seme: non c’è altro mezzo per essere qui”.La vita è costruita su una segreta bugia.
Così di una trama di finzione noi vediamo una macchia, un'impronta, un'impurità; e tutto è errore, crudeltà, inganno, scommessa, fascino, decisione, ultimo canto.
Coleman e Faunia si illudono di essere irripetibili, ma il contesto sociale intorno impone loro una volontà rituale e implacabile.
Ma il pregiudizio è una forma di conoscenza che spinge la moralità ad approfittarsi di ogni debolezza, fragilità e contraddizione.
La macchia che esiste prima del segno.
Che esiste senza il segno.
La macchia così intrinseca non richiede un segno.
And now having completed his Nathan Zuckerman trilogy, beginning with the much-acknowledged masterpiece, American Pastoral, which I loved, and I Married a Communist, which I also came to like very much, I see the greatness of this trilogy, like The Plot, has to do with its attention to the sweep of twentieth century American history, with some central social issues of that period examined in the context of often deeply flawed characters.
When Zuckerman and Silk joke crudely about the Clinton-Lewinsky affair, it’s funny, but there are no filters here.
Anthony Hopkins plays an extremely white black man!
And the actor who plays the young Anthony Hopkins looks absolutely nothing like him!
Because the story has the crashingly beautiful even though desperately dressing down Nicole take a shine to the 70-if-he's-a-day Anthony and wants to shag him a lot!
And this is the same wish fulfillment fantasy that Philip Roth keeps on writing about in all his late books!
Ugh. Okay, I admit, the book MUST must must must be better than this wretched loony movie but I will never find out.
I got Rothed to death years ago.* This Human Stain movie, it was just a one time thing.
Δεν είναι κρυφό πλέον πως δεν τα πηγαίνω και πάρα πολύ καλά με τους συγγραφείς από την άλλη πλευρά του Ατλαντικού.
الوصمة البشرية عرفت فيليب روث في (سخط)، ولكني تعرفت عليه حقاً هنا، في هذه الرواية المذهلة التي ستهزك من الأعماق، وستلتقي خلالها بشخصية من أعظم الشخصيات التي أنجبها الأدب، (كولمن سيلك) الزنجي الذي تنكر لأصوله ولعائلته، وعاش حياته كلها كرجل أبيض، أبيض إلى درجة أنه ويا للسخرية يستقيل في أواخر عمره من الجامعة بعد اتهامه بالعنصرية، وضد من !!!
Il lettore non può far altro che annuire più o meno vigorosamente.
Se si ama la scrittura di getto, spontanea, non si legga Roth, o meglio, Roth è spontaneo nella sua precisione.
Ritengo, quindi, di non poter commentare alcunché ma solo appuntare due post it per la mia memoria su due argomenti che mi stanno a cuore, provincialismo - e non necessariamente geografico - e mediocrità diffusa, e anche in questa occasione è Roth a scriverli, a pag.
Non riesco a impararlo, dunque dev’esserci qualcosa di sbagliato.
E qualcosa di particolarmente sbagliato deve avere l’insegnante cattivo che pretende di insegnarlo.”
Ciò che noi sappiamo è che, in un modo non stereotipato, nessuno sa nulla.
Non puoi sapere nulla.
non le sai.
Tutto ciò che non sappiamo è stupefacente.
Ancora più stupefacente è quello che crediamo di sapere".Ci sono macchie indelebili, difficili e il protagonista di questo romanzo sa bene quali macchie hanno contraddistinto la sua vita.
Con acume, intelligenza e la solita maestria che lo contraddistingue, Philip Roth ci guida alla scoperta del paradosso e dell'ambivalenza e di quanto le parole, la menzogna possa fare male e ferire rovinando non solo la propria vita, ma anche quella degli altri.
أن تكون هنالك حبكة تسيطر ليس فقط على هذه الرواية بل على جميع روايات روث، محرك خارجي ومستقل، قد يسميها روث بمفتاحه المربك وله كل الحق بهذه التسمية فلقد صمم ( كوبليه أدبي ) ، ففي شخص الراوي ناثان زوكرمان الذي يلازم روايات روث و يحافظ هنا على مستوى السارد الأول للنص ولكنه غير أمين البتة فبمقدوره قدح زناد أوهامه و معالجة قضاياه و بث وجهات نظره المغضنة في مجريات الأحداث دون ان تتعرف على صوته أو تشك بنواياه،صوت قاتل بهمس كالشائعة المغرضة توجيه تركيز الناس لعكس العجز الحقيقي الذي سبب الأزمة، وهذا على ما يبدو لا يحدث هنا فقط بل يحدث في أكثر من رواية لروث ، تبدأ الحكاية حين يلجأ كولمن سيلك عميد الأدب السابق بألمه المعنوي الحاد..
Brilliant.America in 1998.
Monica Lewinsky Bill Clinton sex scandal.
Organic farming movement.
Political correctness.
Race.
An ex professor, his lover, a war vet, his children.
A secret.This is the bookend to the America trilogy, American Pastoral (1970s) and I Married a Communist (1950s).
This series paints his reflections on America over the last half century.
The stories, like every Roth story, are raw and challenging.
Impossible to put down.Despite the fact I Married a Communist didn’t hit the highs for me like American Pastoral and The Human Stain, I marvel at Roth’s trilogy.
America.
Philip Roth has passed away, age 85.
Tudo isto pode ser visto no filme homónimo realizado por Robert Benton, que conta com nada menos do que Anthony Hopkins e Nicole Kidman, mas que apesar de nos poder dar a conhecer a história em toda a sua evidência, e sendo um bom filme, fica imensamente distante do livro.Não se trata apenas do detalhe ou da diferença entre os diferentes média, a diferença aqui é evidenciada pela mestria de Roth no manejo da escrita.
Set in New England, this book tells the story of a college professor accused of making a racist remark in one of his classes. The fact that what follows is patently unfair sets this book up as a commentary on extreme political correctness. There is a lot of ground covered here - Vietnam, Clinton/Lewinsky, racism and ageing to name a few - and in typical Roth style it is rich, clever, complex and, at times, ranting. Not what I'd call a relaxing read but hugely worthwhile if you're in the mood.
around this time last year i was on vacation on the cape reading american pastoral, another roth novella of fun and good humor!
but reading a roth opus is sort of like being in an abusive relationship, at least in my warped imagination.
sort of like that.in a major "groundhog day" moment i found myself on the cape THIS year with the human stain, which is no departure for roth.
parts of the human stain left me wishing roth had chosen to continue to focus on the jewish american experience, and not tackle issues of race in america.
Dio mio, Roth!
Das beginnt mit den beschissenen Krähenszenen über das elaborierte oft sehr substanzlose philosophische Geschwafel des amerikanischen Pildungspürgers über Rousseau, Heidegger und andere Philosophen, deren Theorien aber nicht wirklich konsistent in den Plot eingebaut werden, sondern nur zitiert werden, damit man damit prahlen kann, was man alles gelesen hat und wie man seichte Querverweise mit der Mistgabel in den Roman hineinschaufelt.
Die Figuren sind klischeehaft und das intellektuelle Geschwafel ist einerseits himmlisch, dort wo es dazupasst und dort wo es als eitles Geschwätz eingesetzt wird, das mit der Handlung nichts zu tun hat, ist es nur unerträglich.
His secret begins to unravel when he refers to two absent students as "spooks." Because the students are black, the remark is deemed racist, when he had actually intended the word to mean "ghosts." The writing is extremely dull and rambling; sentences, paragraphs, and chapters are neverending, and the prose is too dense for my taste.
The narration is very unclear, shifting between a primary narrator and events and thoughts that the narrator cannot possibly have known.
The subject matter, however, is thought provoking and stimulates discussion.
Is a person black when they have white skin?
Why is the "one drop" definition of ancestry applicable to blacks, but no other race?
This is a narrative that constantly tempts us, as readers, to draw metaphorical lines in the sand--he's wrong, she's right (Silk is a bastard, Silk is misunderstood)--and yet repeatedly makes this impossible.For me Roth seems to be questioning, at the very least, what we want out of our literature--characters who are cut and dried, good or bad, about whom it is easy to make a judgment and easy to decide if they've acted correctly or incorrectly.
Or, perhaps another way of thinking about it--Roth is forcing us to question why we read literature--do we want that authorial narrative voice that we lack in our daily lives?
Mit dem alten Sack verbindet sie nichts als Sex und mit der Einstellung einer Professionellen bleibt sie nie über Nacht bei Silk, mit einer einzigen Ausnahme, die für beide das Ende bedeutet, aber auch nur, weil der Autor geschlampert oder das Lektorat geschlafen hat.
Fehler im Detail können jedem Autor unterlaufen*, aber an einer derart zentralen Stelle, darf man nicht schludern.Trotzdem habe ich mich fast noch mehr über das andere Klischee geärgert, die verkorkste Dozentin und gnadenlose Feministin träumt in Wirklichkeit von einem Typen wie Coleman Silk und der wäre ja sogar wieder zu haben, nachdem sich Faunia in der letzten Szene vor dem Unfall mit einer Elster verlobt hat, bzw.
'afasta-te daquilo em que o homem pôs a mão'.
