https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/732482.Swami_and_Friends
I would never have known about Narayan had not the parent of a child with whom I worked introduced me with a Christmas present of the Everyman's Library Edition of the four 'Malgugi' novels.
The first of these novels, 'Swami' is the story of a ten-year-old boy in a small town in southern India, just as Gandhi's independence movement is gaining traction.
Swami is torn between the excitement of a revolutionary movement that is about rejecting the old order, and his idolization of the charming son of a representative of that order, a police official in the British colonial system.It's a beautiful little book.
Swami and friends has got such an innocence that they will make you smile, remind you of the 'big problems' you had to face when you were a child and all those ridiculous things you did.For example, I used to write letters exactly like this one"I am studying here because my father came here.
My mother is alsohere.
I hopeyou are doing well.
I had fever for three days and drankmedicine.
Is Swami andMani doing well!
It is very hot here.
I can't writemore."Definitely it is a feel good book and might help you to keep the last bit of innocence left in you.
I first read Swami and Friends in 2005, and have re-read it to kick off a little review projectNarayan Project - No. 1 of 26*This is a beautiful book about childhood, specifically boyhood, told by a master story teller about to begin his long and fruitful creative life.Famously, Swami and Friends is the work which got RK Narayan his start, when a friend in London showed the manuscript to Graham Greene, leading to its publication, after the friend ignored RKN’s instruction to throw the work into the Thames.I’m also confident this is the first appearance of the imaginary town of Malgudi, based on Mysore, which appears pretty well developed, featuring a substantial river, the Sarayu, flowing by, the classy residential precinct Lawley Extension (where Swami’s new friend Rajam lives), Ellaman Street and so forth: the elements appearing here would reappear in most of Narayan’s stories hereafter.Ten year old WS Swaminathan (Swami) is a First Form student at the Albert Mission School.
I saw his books at a book fair recently.At first , I was hesitant to buy his books ,but then my dad compelled me ,So I ended up buying two of his books .Better late than never.The story is about Swami,Mani and Rajam who were foes at first but then went on to become great friends .What I like most in this novel is that I could connect with the characters ,be it Swami ,Mani or Rajam.
There would have always been a swami/Mani/Rajam in our school days.
At times ,I could relate with swami .It was ironic when Mani ,who was at loggerheads with Rajam in the beginning, was with him till the end .
In short, find this novel to read and you'd love Narayan as one of the pioneering Indian writers in the 20th century.All right, I've just found the hardcover in question.Some reasons why I'd like to encourage my Goodreads friends to read this novel:1) Each chapter is reasonably pleasurable for new comers, not too short or too long,2) Lots of dialogs, various types of discourse related to their contexts.
He is a good bowler...''Are you?' said the headmaster, turning to Swaminathan.'May I come to the point?' Rajam asked.'Do, do,' said the headmaster, 'for heaven's sake, do.'...
What I found really funny was how all the boys (Swami, Mani and Rajam)take themselves so seriously, when they haven't a clue about most things.
One of the funniest incidents was when the boys decide to form a local cricket club and wonder if the government would charge them a tax for forming the club, as the government seemed to charge a tax for everything in the world.
He gets into trouble most times because of this - but then I'm thinking most boys 6 or 7 years old cant be expected to think much beyond themselves.
This is Narayan's first book, and therefore the first of his famous Malgudi books.It is a clever book, in its own way - mainly because it gets into the head of a ten year-old boy, living in a small Indian village.
Narayan has really nailed this - the things that are important to a ten year-old, the confusion of a ten year-old, the innocent, lack of understanding that a ten year-old has in the ways of the adult world.
In summary, the issues that ten year-olds are troubled with.
Swami and Friends is one of his first published novels based on R.
There is absolutely nothing boring about this novel and is one of my favourite stories about children.
Swami/Swaminathan is a ten-year-old boy in a small town in southern India called ‘Malgudi’ (The fictitious southern Indian town which is the setting for a large number of Narayan’s works.) just as Gandhi's independence movement is gaining traction.
He also has his own has his own gang of friends where he is the ‘ringleader’ of all the mischievous works.
It was a delight to meet you again, Swami. I can only say this, we'll meet again soon,my friend. Loved the book. Highly recommended.
So homely, so amusing.. And a bit sad towards the end. R K. N. weaves the story such that I almost believed I was in Malgudi.. Now off to rekindle some nostalgia by watching the DD series on you tube
Swami and Friends is the first of a trilogy of novels written by RK Narayan, a celebrated English novelist from India.
His novels are known for their 'deftly etched characters, his uniquely stylized language and his wry sense of humor'.Swami and Friends is the story of a 10-year-old boy, growing up during this particular time, his innocence, wonder, mischief and growing pains.
Like Swami most children - even today- attend schools that do not nourish their heritage and culture, throughout the world including the US.The criticism of the educational system and the lack of faith in it is a common theme of Narayan.
"Ye Daulat Bhii Le Lo, Ye Shoharat Bhii Le Lo, Bhale Chhiin Lo Mujhase Merii Javaanii, Magar Mujhako Lautaa Do Bachpann Kaa Saavan, Vo Kaagaz Kii Kashtii, Vo Baarish Kaa Paanii..." these magical lines by Sudarshan Faakir beautifully sums up the importance of childhood memories in our lives.'Swami and Friends' brings out that 'bachpann' in you which is silently hidden in some corner of your heart.
Page by Page, incident by incident, chapter by chapter...you re-visit your childhood with the panorama of school days and mischief you played coming before your eyes.The book is about Swami (a child everyone must have lived his / her childhood with), his whole gang of friends & their adventure in the school.
Coming to this book, it is a simple story of Swami and his 6 friends set in the greatest village "Malgudi"; it has everything which a group of boys can do in 1930's and trust me they do have a lot of things to do!There are many parts in this book which will really make you laugh which i did many times while reading.
And if I have to pick one small paragraph from the book to give a flavour of what I am referring to then read the below lines:Once swami's father dictates arithmetic problem.Rama has ten mangoes with which he wants to earn fifteen annas.
Somehow one could not help feeling that he must have been like Sankar, with his ten mangoes and his iron determination to get fifteen annas.
R.K. Narayan's writing is so beautifully simple that you just cannot help but appreciate it. Reading this book was like reading about a place that I have never visited (indeed I have never visited South India), but a place that feels like home. When you read something like this, you realize that when you're an Indian, every place in India, no matter if it is in the South or the North - with all its diversity, it is home.
Kids growing up in an age before Satellite TV, Internet and Mobiles. Even after so many years you can still relate or maybe you know some kids exactly like Swami and his friends. Still makes me nostalgic after so many years. In my opinion better than Malgudi Days
An absolutely delightful read. Swami and Friends offers a refreshing view of village life in early 20th century India, seen from the perspective of a ten year old in all his innocence.
I'm someone who has a special corner in her heart for children book. This book is also like that. This kind of books are stress buster and makes you feel better
Connects you to softer side of yourself. Innocence overloaded. Reminds you to those good old days.
The fictitious town of Malgudi that forms the backdrop for most of his oeuvre is sincere, a representation of the realism found in the realms of any actual town or city and so are the myriad characters – be it the politician, a caricature of the khaki clad, the school headmaster more of a tyrant to his piteous urchins, the melancholic beggar, recalcitrant street mongrels, the dutiful wife or the grandmother with her share of never-ending stories and ever increasing affection.Swami and Friends is the first novel by R.
The bittersweet friendship between Swami and his friends is an example of effortless writing and Narayan only excels.
A terrible fight was to befall between Swami’s friends rather it humorously heralded the beginning of a new found friendship.
If I would want to truly visit a fictional town in this world ,it should be malgudi.
Looks like this town has got everything in it what India could offer during it's imperial British reign.There is no greater creativeness than an book by an author who writes so elusively and enchantingly narrated in a ten year kid's perspective.
I strongly recommend one to watch the Malugudi Day's - Swami and Friends' TV series on YouTube after reading the book.The series didn't loose it's vitality and originality and I am sure it still make one to crave for reading many more works by R.K. Narayan
The young boy trying to be a man, buckling under peer pressure, close friendships, jealousies, rebellions, strategising to get himself out of unpleasant situations, his feelings towards his family and vivid imagination etc brings to life childhood in the olden days and will resonate with everyone and anyone who has spent his or her formative years in India.Nostalgia will pervade you as you read this book of bygone times, when childhood was not as complicated as now, and yet had a maturity of its own.Narayan's words takes you to a world, which you wish you could be a part of.Even after so many years, the words and effects are fresh and vivid.
Narayan is a Tamil writer who, like Faulkner, created his own little world, but in South India: The town of Malgudi.
Swami and Friends is the first of his novels to be published, supposedly with the help of Graham Greene, who saw in him a master storyteller.And so he is.
Swami and Friends is a story of childhood, of a young boy named Swaminathan and his good friends Mani and Rajam and their various run-ins with each other and the school administration.
It is a magnificent story about the carefree and innocent days of childhood, the true essence of friendship, the much needed discipline of schools and yet the defiance of it.
Malgudi blends into the map of India so beautifully that you start imagining it, the trunk road and river sarayu and the playground basking in afternoon heat.
You go back to a time when and evening game was your only schedule, the homeworks your only deadlines and examination your only race for an appraisal.
Tiny hints of Gandhi and the swaraj, slight meddle with politics yet the childhood not ruined by its excess.
Looking ahead to more of malgudi days.
I loved this book a lot!!
R.K.Narayan is a pride to Indian literature.
Simple and humorous!!
Swami is great!!-- The fact that he got expelled from two schools in succession proves it!!
I love the odd composition of Swami's friends.
Mani- A guy who bangs up everyone in sight and is a constant presence in back bench, Somu- A sweet monitor with an easy mind, Sankar- A nerd, Rajam- A rich, modern boy.
Their odd friendship is really interesting.
Above all, the book is written in such a way that we see everything through the children's eyes, we talk their language and feel their horror, seriousness, humor etc.
Such a good book to read.
By reading this book , I went back to feel my own childhood days and rejoiced it.
The letter wrote by swami and rajam to the sports store in madras is a wonderful read.
I could still visualise those words gripping my mind to enjoy their tenderness.
The wild imaginations and dreams that I used to have in my childhood days are penned down here.
When I read through it, I placed myself with the characters and enjoyed reading them every word.
A small journey through childhood.Life has its own turn in its each stage.Swami follows his natural intuition.It leads him to a different path of childhood.R.K.Narayan wonderfully narrated the odd one out of Swami and his friends.It gives us a pleasant feeling.Realy enjoyed.
A fine collection of Swami and his friends stories from the master storyteller who created Malgudi.
Not as preachy as I remembered it to be .
This novel, as others have noted, has a kind of economy and innocence that cleverly reflects the modest adventures of ten-year-old Swami.
What is most important to Swami is his friends, and Narayan wonderfully portrays the shifting alliances and dreamy schemes of children.
97-117), including a somewhat “hapless” central character caught in a world “without a particular realistic causality,” to quote Earl.
In this case, such features may not only be typical of an Indian novel but of the way children, the central characters of Swami and Friends, so often experience the world.
R.K. Narayan, the creator of the character Swami was well aware of this fact & so penned the adventures of a boy in Malgudi.There is however, a stark difference between the school boy Swami & other foreign & well-loved schoolboy characters.
All the characters in this book are completely real although technically speaking they are `made up'.But lets get to the bottom of R.K. Narayan's `Malgudi Schooldays'.Most of us who love reading already know that the south Indian town mentioned in this book is fictional & does not really exist just the way Narnia does not as well as Camelot.
