https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887010.Das_doppelte_Lottchen
I have recently been making efforts to improve my very unsatisfactory German (it's the language two-thirds of Switzerland speaks, even if they don't speak it here in Geneva), and I've been using my normal method of simply picking things up and reading them, starting with very easy stuff and gradually moving towards more challenging material.
But here's the amazing thing: I find I'm reading the books like a seven-year-old!
At first she's angry that someone else has stolen her face, but then she makes friends with Lotte and discovers something weird: not only has she got Luise's appearance, she was also born on the same day, in the same town.
Das doppelte Lottchen (Lisa and Lottie) takes children, their hopes, dreams and desires seriously, and is also a reminder to adults (to parents) that children must not be ignored, that they deserve to know the truth, and that irresponsible adult behaviours can have problematic, difficult, even potentially dangerous consequences.
And considering that Das doppelte Lottchen was penned in 1949, it is both amazing, and I guess also more than a trifle disconcerting and frustrating to have to acknowledge that similar heartbreaking scenarios are still prevalent and relevant nowadays, and on a global scale at that.

And I have also and repeatedly watched and greatly enjoyed the German film version (the one from 1954 which had author Erich Kästner write the screen play and which starred actual twin girls as the main protagonists); it is much more authentic than the generally more well-known and famous Disney The Parent Trap movie (the original, starring Hayley Mills, I have not seen the more recent Lindsay Lohan version nor am I planning to) which takes some rather huge and for me almost unforgivable liberties with the plot (I do realise many seem to adore the parent trap movies, but for me, they veer too much and too far from Kästner's original plot and thematics to ever be fully or even partially enjoyable).With this novel, with Das doppelte Lottchen, author Erich Kästner has definitely managed to realistically portray the many problems and issues faced by children of divorced parents, as well as the irresponsible behaviours that are at times exhibited by the same, by parents (separating very young twin siblings, and then not even telling them that they have siblings is NEVER an acceptable solution, as children are not objects or playthings).
دو خواهر دوقلو بی خبر از وجود یکدیگر نزد پدر و مادری که اکنون با هم زندگی نمی کنند، به سر می برند، دست تصادف این دو را به دیدار هم می کشاند و ...
When I started to read Lisa and Lottie, this here English language rendition published by Lizzie Skurnick Books of Brooklyn, New York (the translator's name is not listed, but I am now pretty well one hundred percent certain that it is the 1950 translation by Cyrus Brooks, and why his name has NOT been acknowledged is both hard to understand and actually in any manner to even accept), I was at first rather taken aback that the location of the girls' camp where Lisa first meets Lottie (and where they discover that they are separated identical twins) is called Bohrlaken on Lake Bohren instead of (as in the German original) Seebühl on the Bühlsee.
I have also and repeatedly watched and greatly enjoyed the German film version (the one from 1954 which had author Erich Kästner write the screen play and that starred actual twin girls as the main protagonists); it is much more authentic than the generally more well-known and famous Disney The Parent Trap movie (the original, starring Hayley Mills, I have not seen the more recent Lindsay Lohan version nor am I planning to) as the Disney movie version takes some rather huge and for me almost unforgivable liberties with the plot (and I do realise many seem to adore the parent trap movies, but for me, they veer too much and too far from Kästner's original plot and thematics to ever be fully or even partially enjoyable).With this novel, with Das doppelte Lottchen, author Erich Kästner has definitely managed to realistically portray the many problems and issues faced by children of divorced parents, as well as the irresponsible behaviours that are at times exhibited by the same, by parents (separating very young twin siblings, and then not even telling them that they have siblings is NEVER an acceptable solution, as children are not objects or playthings).
Vintage Classic and no mistake.My delight as an adult was almost totally unspoilt while reading. At one point, of course I started going down the road of "how could the parents do such a thing", but my 9-year-old self was firmly guarding the path and chased me back to enjoy the story.And I did, boy, I did it all right, though it was the first time I read it in the original German.I also have to add that I loved the illustrations back then and now. :) This books stays firmly on my "Favourites" shelf.
For years, ever since I knew that the movie The Parent Trap was based on this book, I’ve wanted to read it.
This book would have definitely been a favorite book of mine had I read it at age 9 or 10, about the time I was first enjoying the movie.
And, despite being a huge fan of Hayley Mills, I think I would have enjoyed the book even more than I enjoyed the movie.Delightful.
I loved the two girls.
All of the characters are significantly different from those in The Parent Trap movie.
The girls are only nine in the book, but they’re very mature.
I remember reading this story in school so vividly, sitting at my old desk and going through the story chapter by chapter as classmates read sections out loud.
I have to confess that I forgot it was written by the very well known and admired Erich Kästner and I wonder if my local library has a copy of it in the original language.It certainly is a must not only for German-speaking readers, but for all that are interested in classic (German) literature.

فیلم اقتباسی از این کتاب از بهترین‌های دوران بچگی منه.
یادمه کوچیک که بودم نوار آهنگایی که تو فیلم خونده میشد رو هم داشتم و شبا گاهی حتی روی تخت با گذاشتن واکمن بغل گوشم و شنیدن اونا میخوابیدم.اینطوریه که فکر میکنم جدا از ارزش خود فیلم، که به نظرم کم نیست، همه‌ش برای من حس خوب خاطرات گذشته و به قولی نوستالژی‌ه!برای همین وقتی که این کتابو پیدا کردم، که دقیقا یادم نیست کی بود، اما خیلی بعد از دیدن فیلمش بود که تعجب منو برانگیخت که فیلم رو از روی یک کتاب برداشتن، بسیار بسیار ذوق کردم.
Neuveriteľne táto knižka stále funguje. Ako decko som ju čítala nespočetkrát, vždy požičanú z knižnice, keďže bola beznádejne vypredaná. Pred rokom vyšla vo Verbariu v novom vydaní a ja som jej neodolala.A aká krásna nostalgická cesta späť v čase to bola! Napriek tomu, že príbeh dôverne poznám, nevedela som sa od knihy odtrhnúť a autenticky ma dojala hneď niekoľkokrát. Veľmi sa teším, že po všetkých tých rokoch mám konečne svoj výtlačok.
Толкова умна и забавна история за най-очарователна детска смелост и някои значителни родителски неволи! Чудесна беше възможността да я преживея още веднъж за себе си, но и като за първи път "през ушите" на дъщеря ми. Истинско бисерче в детската литература (особено в момичешката ѝ част).
Lisa and Lottie is based off the movie "The Parent Trap".
I was interested to see how they would compare.
The book was okay but nothing spectacular.
I wish there was a little more development in the story.
One of the reviews said that maybe some of the humor got lost in translation from German to English.
Maybe that did happen and the storyline didn't have all the parts it was supposed to have?I was kinda disappointed with the book but it wasn't horrible either.
I would say read it if you want.
But I am not going to recommend it to a specific group of people.
Was für ein tolles Kinderbuch. Als Kind habe ich leider keine Kästner gelesen (soweit ich mich erinnere), aber die hätte ich sicher alle geliebt! Toller Schreibstil, wie manchmal wir Leser angesprochen werden, nie belehrend, sondern einfach weise. Lustige Geschichte, aber stets sehr realistisch und einfühlsam. Zu recht ein Klassiker!
Erich Kästner understands children – as he says adults should not forget that children’s unhappiness is as real and honest just like theirs, it doesn’t matter what children cry about, because in life it’s not important what you grieve about, only how much you grieve. He is not afraid to write about adults’ problems (like divorce) and their effect for children. And his stories are flavoured with considerable amount of humour, so that both young readers and their parents don’t forget to always see the funny side.
بالاخره بعد از دیدن دو نسخه The parent trap و یک عدد خواهران غریب، از خوندن کتاب گریزی نبود، فقط قدری دیر و زود داشت اما سوخت و سوز خیر!
Am schönsten bei solchen klassischen Kindergeschichten sind einfach die Stellen, die man auch als Erwachsener unmöglich ohne Lächeln lesen kann:Der Mond schaut durchs große Schlafsaalfenster und staunt nicht schlecht: Da liegen zwei kleine Mädchen nebeneinander, die einander nicht anzusehen wagen, und die eine, die eben noch weinte, tastet jetzt mit ihrer Hand ganz langsam nach der streichelnden Hand der anderen."Na gut", denkt der alte, silberne Mond.
"Da kann ich ja beruhigt untergehen!"Und das tut er denn auch.oder:Der Hund hat sich mit dem zweifachen Luiserl abgefunden, indem er seine Fähigkeit, kleine Mädchen gernzuhaben, zunächst verdoppelt und dann diese Zuneigung halbiert hat.
Man muss sich zu helfen wissen.Wunderbar!
Bzw.
Ein wunderschöner Klassiker, welcher mich für einen Tag in meine Kindheit zurückversetzt hat. Ein Buch für Kinder und Erwachsene mit viel Herz und einer wundervollen Geschichte.
I asked my Mum about it today and her answer was interesting.
Erich Kästner, while usually beloved by lots of people around us growing up, was utterly detested by my grandfather.
He believed Kästner guilty of one of the worst sorts of war crime: indifference.I realise I'm wading into murky territory here - isn't this the sort of thing that makes GR delete reviews?
Plus who am I in all my neoliberal comforts to hurl accusations at someone based on a Wikipedia article and what my Mum said?So I'm asking you friends- do you know about this?
This is a charming little children's book (age 9-12?) that was the basis of Disney's beloved Hayley Mills vehicle: Parent Trap.That’s how it is at Bohrlaken on Lake Bohren, where the story begins which I am going to tell you.
It’s a rather complicated story.
Lisa, the extrovert and Lottie, the introvert,meet at camp and discover that they are twins, separated by divorced parents.
Naturally, the girls plot to become a family again.
There are some minor differences (the girls live in Vienna and Munich, for example) between the movies and this book, but the changes worked for the movies, as the original plot points work for this little book.
A Childhood favorite, and a lot less snarky than either of the films, this was a sweet re-read.
He uses incredible choices of wording, which get a hold of my emotions and really paint a good picture in my mind, whereas the masterful sketches are only there to help.
The last line of the book, which is said by Lisa during a discussion between Lottie and the housekeeper Rosa about their parents having more children, is one I consider to be one of the greatest last lines ever written: "And twins every time!" This book has great value, and is worth a read for anyone, no matter what type of genre they like or reading level they prefer.
The English version's title and cover make it seem like this is just one of any kids' books, but this is actually quite sophisticated.
I if I understand correctly, the original title "Das doppelte Lottchen" means Double Lottchen (Lottie).
The cover art of the German edition conveys this idea well, showing two identical girls.
It's a story of identity swap.
There was a movie Face Off, which gave a new spin to this old theme.
The theme ultimately asks the question of who we are.
This humble novella works on this theme in a way a child can understand and enjoy.
I never knew all the Parent Trap / twin swap films were based on a book until recently.
And one I've been enjoying.
Deciding to spend time secretly with their unknown parent, the expected problems and situations arise, comic and not so, and a happy ending will hopefully be on the horizon for the lovely girls and their parents...A light read for children, a friendly narrator and sympathetic heroines who are easy to tell apart and a great story when you realise it is the first one!I'd say that with a parent, good for age 6+ and by themselves, from around age 8 will find this an engrossing and entertaining story.
This is the book that Disney based "The Parent Trap" on and I was curious what the original was like: spoiler alert, quite different. I can see why they needed to change it though-- this works great as a children's book, second or third grade, but the conflicts are fairly simple, not very wacky, and wouldn't play on screen too well. I finished it in a day-- a quick, fun read.
I read this book with Mallory. It was one of my favorite books as a child. This is the book that The Parent Trap movie is based on. I forgot the little funny parts of the book and reading it as an adult I got some more stuff that I probably didn't get out of it as a child.
Das Doppelte Lottchen ist witzig, amüsant und unterhaltsam. Aber es zeigt auch wie Kinder denken und besonders über (ihre) Eltern. Und diese Kinder hier sind viel reifer als ihr tatsächliches Alter! Ich mag die Geschichte und werde auf jeden Fall mehr von Erich Kästner lesen.
need to find English translation. "Parent Trap" is based on this.
Germany - ?
