https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30231750-deep-survival
As I obviously didn't like the book, I'll keep this review negative and explain why.1.In general, I dislike books where the author is not the focus of the story, but then tries too hard to insert him/herself.
Gonzales references many excellent survival stories (including his own father's) but keeps coming back to himself.
Strike one.2.Gonzales obviously did his homework, but in this book re-hashes many stories that are far better in their original form.
I'd estimate that I've read 75% of the books he references, meaning there was limited new survival content.
Strike three.If Gonzales' father wrote a book, I'd like to read it.
His father survived World War II against great odds and Gonzales went on a life time search to find the answer to his father's survival.
Yes, his father claimed a good part of his reason for survival was 'luck,' but that did not satisfy Gonzales and he tired me with page after page of possible survivor traits.Also interesting to me was Gonzales conclusion that those lost should search for there way out and that those that stayed in one place were doomed to a slow death.
Having been a family coordinator for 35 years , I'm a pretty good leader and fairly prepared person.
This book is pretty interesting reading about how when faced with life threatening situations, some make it and some don't.
The authors interest in the subject stemmed from his own father's survival after the fighter plane he was piloting was shot down over Germany.
Most of the stories here are about plane crashes, rock and mountain climbers, snowmobiles and skiers, white water rafters and ocean sailors, hikers getting desperately lost in wilderness areas, and the different mindsets of those who perished and those who lived to tell their stories.
If any one these are "your thing" you may enjoy this book.
they had a three-page spread about gonzales, his story, and the impetus for this book.
basically, there are interesting survival stories that are often interrupted by gonzales's random thoughts.
if a survivor says during an interview that "at one point i lost my cool, then i prayed to god and calmed down," gonzales will interrupt to write, "oh yeah, losing one's cool make one human and is necessary to survive." then, "oh yeah, praying helps you take stock of your situation, and it helps to believe in a deity." if another survivor said, "i didn't pray to god.
What you get instead is some pseudo-scientific explanations, inadequately cited, a lot of uninteresting anecdotes about his search for the survivor experience, interspersed with some genuinely interesting survival stories.
I was really bothered by this blatant omission and it made me wonder what other facts he was manipulating to make his point.I didn't enjoy his writing- it might be suitable for a magazine article but as a book, there were a lot of story threads that never got tied up or even connected with one another.
Even the survival stories, the most interesting part, are available as memoirs.
He writes about why people make foolish choices that lead them into danger, what we can do to avoid those errors and why some systems have errors built into them so that eventually a disaster is going to happen.The author loves high-risk, adrenalin-fueled pursuits.
But he is able to stand back from that admiration and analyze the people and their activities and how they face dangerous situations.I found this book fascinating.
I learned a lot about the mindset that allows people to survive the worst, most life-threating situations.
Meh. Laurence Gonzales writes about a lot of interesting topics here, and he's obviously an intelligent and well-read guy, but...meh.
He also frequently tackles topics he clearly has a limited understanding of (neuroscience in particular; having studied it in college, I know just enough to know that Gonzales doesn't know as much as he wants you to think he knows...if that makes any sense at all), and quotes from a wide range of seemingly irrelevant works just to make things feel heavy, maaaan (the Tao Te Ching seems to be his favorite for this purpose, though he's also fond of the Stoic philosophers).
A fascinating story of what makes 2 people go into the same situation, one lives, one dies.The author has an interest in survival as his father was gunned down in the war.
His father survived when others perished.
Gonzales became an adrenaline junkie, also flying planes, racing motorcyles and mountain climbing.
He covers it all, from wilderness misadventures people get themselves into (rafting, sailing, climbing and hiking) to disasters beyond our control (plane crashes, and 9/11).During his tales he throws in a bit of neuroscience, psychology, philosophy and unfortuantely, too many personal anecdotes.
Don't climb up frozen mountains.
Larry half-digested a bunch of philosophy and psych 101 books, put on a muscle tee and aviator sunglasses, and squeezed out this turd of a book. He strings together quotes from smarter men, says irritating things like, "boss feeling", and talks about how brave he is flying stupid airplanes, and riding stupid motorcycles with Lyle Lovett.I was so excited about reading DEEP SURVIVAL because it was supposed to analyze some of my favorite survival stories. I guess I could have anticipated its awfulness from the title.
The guy is writing about survival from his own background of constantly (and purposefully) risking his life in some misguided effort to prove that he himself is a survivor.
Apparently his father survived a plane crash in WWII and so he's spend his life trying to live up to the old man.
Furthermore, I think purposely risking your life because of some childhood point to prove is contrary to the whole spirit of survival.Also, his history as a magazine contributor is painfully obvious.
Like Rome, survival isn't built in a day.3.
People are more likely to survive if they are trying to help someone else, or if there's someone in their life they are trying to get back toGonzales backs up his ideas with a lot of neuroscience and a lot of closely analyzed examples, and I think he's more right than not, although I think some of his conclusions, such as that seeking out risk marks you as a survivor, are a little self-serving, since he himself is clearly an adrenaline junkie of the first water.
I wrote down all the titles of the books he references, hoping they'd have more of that type of information.I really liked the survival stories, especially just that blurb about some crazy Japanese sergeant who lived "for the Emperor" alone in the jungles of Guam for TWENTY EIGHT YEARS!!!!!!!!!!
I need to see a movie about that dude.The best thing about this book would have to be the survival stories all the cool information about the brain.
And I don't know, something about him (and it wasn't just a couple things, it was really persistent) just rubbed me the wrong way.I still liked the book and would recommend it to people, though.
Leitura legal e cheia de relatos de sobrevivência, escrita por alguém que se aventurou bastante e teve contato com histórias de muita gente.
Ele costura histórias marcantes e bem escritas com lições que podem ser tiradas de cada uma delas, bem como o que faz alguém se comportar bem ou mal naquela situação.
Tem um certo exagero no conteúdo, no sentido de teorias do caos, sistemas complexos e similares que ficam um pouco forçados em relação com as histórias.
Mas como um todo é um bom livro, com histórias bem impressionantes.
Gonzales looks at cases of plane crashes, lost hikers, and that sort of thing to try to figure out what makes the survivors special. I have a healthy curiosity about this subject but found this book pretty useless. It's a lot of haphazard speculation and Gonzales never really reaches any sort of unifying theory about the subject. All I really learned from this book is that fighter pilots are even more bad-ass than I had assumed.
Well if I am ever in a survival situation...I'm dead! Thought book was interesting but had it not been a required reading for school I would not have read it.
The title pretty much describes it, it's about survival and the author asks the question, why do some people survive certain situations while others succumb to death?
He asks, if two people, of the same phyical health, same training are put into a life and death situation, what is it that will allow one of the two to survive while the other dies?
The author searches for these answers by studying many cases of human survival and he shares these stories and the reasons why some people can be labeled as survivors.
I liked this book, even though he harps on some of the same points over and over.
The stories of survival (and sometimes of not surviving) are great, using both amazingly heroic tales of freak chance to illustrate a point (survival at sea, etc), to someone getting lost while going for a hike.
The best point made is that "survivors" don't always survive, and non-survivors don't always die.
The odds/fate are sometimes too great, even for the best of us.
But survival isn't only about what skills and tools you have, but the correct mental outlook to enable us to think clearly and react appropriately when things get tough.
This book looks at the characteristics of what it takes for someone to survive.
The author tells details of real instances and examines the specifics of what people involved did that were successful and what was not.
He looks for common traits and attitudes the people had.
Gonzales tells of his adventurous life, but also shares a moving story of his father who was a pilot in World War II and his survival experience.
The book was interesting and showed how even well trained people could end up in a situation where they are fighting for their survival.
Gonzales writes with style about bad situations--people falling off mountains, getting lost in the wilderness, breaking limbs in the middle of nowhere, stuck on sinking boats...your basic worst nightmare.
He understands why people get into these situations, both in the sense that he lives a thrill-seeking life himself and in the sense that he's spent time reading up on the human brain and mind.
The qualities that Gonzales attributes to survivors include things like the ability to focus, to accept pain, to break huge tasks down into manageable ones, to take refuge in humor and beauty, and at the same time to be deadly serious and to put forth one's best effort.
I found myself reliving a couple of my near-escapes with a critical eye, repeating Gonzales' oft-repeated mantra "What was I thinking?" and finished it determined to be less of an idiot next time.
I think many of its lessons would also serve to inspire and encourage those unfortunate enough to find themselves in subsequent 'situations' far from home.
Finally, the best recommendation I can offer is that it finishes on an upbeat note, not discouraging the reader from venturing outdoors, but inspiring him/her to get back out there with a better-stocked 'psychological toolkit'.
Anyone who participates in risky endevors such as Rock Climbing, mountaineering, backpaking, wilderness travel, rafting, or any other activiy should read this book. It is very anaylitical and details the human brain. The first part of the book is why accidents happen and how they happen. The second part details how some people survive against increadible odds while others die in less trying circumstances. There are many stories of survival and each one is disected and illistrates what is takes to survive. It is also helpful in teaching you skills to survive everyday life. It is an attitude!.
Portions of this book were great. A really in depth look at what makes up a survivor's mind set. Then there were parts which were a little flowery and phallocentric (you didn't think those two words could be used in the same sentence did you?) which is why some of the book is a little hard to stomach. The first 4 chapters weren't really worth the time, but the fifth chapter, the Sand Pile Effect, was eye opening. If you are interested in high risk endeavors, or SAR, this book is worth the read, even the flowery and phallocentric parts.
Sort of a literary, thinking man's Jackass (the former television show / movie).
For example, from Epictetus: “On the occasion of every accident that befalls you, remember to turn to yourself and inquire what power you have for turning it to use.” This is because Gonzales believes, with demonstrated reason, that a Stoic approach to unexpected twists in life will maximize your chances for survival, in whatever situation you find yourself.Gonzales ties all his stories and thoughts back to himself—back to his own growing appreciation for these principles he discovers during his life, and most of all back to his father’s experiences in World War Two and the rest of his life (he was a bomber pilot alive at the time this book was written, 2004).
Do NOT read this book before or on a plane ride.
Do NOT read this book while doing anything remotely outdoors.
Do NOT read this book before a boat ride.
Author has amazing writing ability...for exactly half of all chapters.
The stories he tells are moving and compelling.
I think the author makes some good points but still this is probably a gross oversimplification of one subset of people who have had these experiences.
Some things to think about, but don’t take it too seriously.
Especially if you are on a plane.
Why it was there was clear after a few chapters, when the author tells the story of a disaster on Mount Hood during which three mountain climbers were killed in an accident.
That was just one of many tales interwoven with descriptions of accidents and the physiology and psychology of survival.
I felt like I was on the boats with Kiley and Callahan.The last chapter, in which Mr. Gonzales talks about his dad's survival story, as well as his own, is both touching and inspirational.
That chapter alone was worth the price of the book and the time to read it.
I always find nonfiction hard to review!🙈 I learn a lot from them, so there’s no doubt they’re educational and I’m no expert on the subject matter so I’m mostly going on feeling🤷🏼♀ For this one, I felt that most of it was directed towards people who purposely put themselves in life-threatening situations (aka not me🙅🏼♀) so I found myself kind of bored. The messages in the last couple of chapters are really what stuck with me since they were relevant to all situations. I still enjoyed the surviva
I always find nonfiction hard to review!🙈 I learn a lot from them, so there’s no doubt they’re educational and I’m no expert on the subject matter so I’m mostly going on feeling🤷🏼‍♀️ For this one, I felt that most of it was directed towards people who purposely put themselves in life-threatening situations (aka not me🙅🏼‍♀️) so I found myself kind of bored.
The messages in the last couple of chapters are really what stuck with me since they were relevant to all situations.
I still enjoyed the survival stories in here - there’s a strong tribute to his father and his story was my favorite😎 ⭐️⭐️.5/5 -3 rounded up!
An interesting look at the psyhcology of survival. Although the author's attempt to find an evolutionary reason for every decision made in a survival situation got in the way at times. I was also a little disappointed that the only list of "how to survive" tips came in the appendix. Several of the stories were incredible. This book made me think about how I would fare in any number of survivial situations. I hope I never need to find out.
Interesting but at times repetitive. I learned a lot from this book.
This book crescendos in the end and becomes one of the most eloquent pieces of philosophy I have read in quite some time. It reframes life as an act of survival. The author paints a character in his father that is such a vivid example of the Stoic hero it reminds me of Cato the Younger. Phenomenal read.
