https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85730.Sabine_s_Notebook
In which the story of Griffin and Sabine takes an odd turn.
The use of postcards and letters is no less entrancing than it was in the first book of the series.
One of the subtle charms of Sabine's Notebook is the care given to describing architecture in evocative ways with use of few words: Cold marble.
Smoky walls.
Silent stones.
[The church] was a dark place, steeped in death.
As I stood looking at it, I felt its roots running below the city like a black twin to the underground.The museum is cozy.
As if the story weren't enough, the stylistic artwork keeps the pages turning.
We do not know if Sabine is an actual woman or just a figment of Griffin's imagination and rest assured the beginning of this book remedies that issue.Sabine is currently in London and is going to stay there until July when she will fly back home.
Griffin tells her that right now he needs to begin a journey by crossing different countries and continents hoping he can figure out what is the issues that he is currently dealing and at the same time trying to gather courage to one day face Sabine in person.Since his place is currently vacant, Sabine lives in his place and she gets a better insight to his life and personality.
I'm probably going to get flamed for this but I read this book and I was really not all that impressed.
Since I was working selling books at the time, I realize that there are some people who are passionate about the entire Griffin & Sabine series.
That's fine - you are welcome to your opinion but honestly, I did not find this book engaging enough to even attempt any of the other books in the series.
It was a mildly entertaining read but not something that I would repeat or something that I would recommend.
Not "bad" but not all that good, either.
This sequel to Griffin and Sabine is more of what I loved about the first book: beautiful art and the fun of reading an imaginary correspondence. I can't call it a successful romance because I didn't fall in love with the characters the way they fell in love with each other, but the ending was intriguing enough to make me want to continue to the next book.
love "opening" mails with fake-nation stamps on it - or "peeking" into other people's mail - it's feeding on this fantasy of having such fabulous painting as your country's postage - amidst streams of meaningless emails we get at work ;-( this suppressed mail-envy is feeding nick's fan into book hysteria.
Now it's Sabines turn, it's like a treasure hunt, across the universe, to find the answer to the ultimate question, or maybe to even find the question it's self.
But these artistically beautiful poetic declarations of love are worth reading over and over again.
Each is a beautiful treasure all in its own.
Yeah I know I usually write terrible things about the books I read, but I can't do that about these books.
You will fall in total love with Griffin and Sabine and salivate fir the next in the series...
" Just you wait" it's worth it kiddies!
I suppose the story is alright, it's a bit melodramatic for my taste, but the artwork is absolutely amazing - a mix of surreal and still life impossible to resist. Which is why I'll be checking out all the other books in this series too, certainly not for the overblown "love" story.
Of all of the books in this series, this is the one that explores change and acceptance more than any of the others.As with the first book, Sabine's Notebook has beautiful, sometimes disturbing artwork that only adds to the postcard and letters that have been written between the pair.
It takes a long time to digest everything in it.Most series, I don't worry about reading in order.
You really do need to read them in order.
You need to take the journey along with Griffin and Sabine because you'll lose so much if you don't.
I adored the first book in this series (read it for sheer creativity inspiration!): the art was not an art style that moved my emotions, but the presentation and narration of the story was unique, fascinating, mysterious, and inspired my curiosity.
I was itching to get this second book.It goes nowhere!
Their continued claims of love start to irk with their continued avoidance.The cliff hanger end of this book is the Exact Same as the end of the first!
When something is novel, but that very novel-ness is capitalized on again and again, it becomes diluted and grey.I'll try the third book, but there had better be some gosh darn development that isn't odiously pretentious.
This is the second book in the Griffin and Sabine trilogy, and I would highly recommend reading all three of these visual novels back to back. There are clues all over the place people, so don't rush through. My love affair with mail art continued as I poured over the postcards and letters. I think the less you know about the story the better it unfolds, so quit reading this review and just dive in.
Not sure that I really understood what was going on but the pictures were very special. I think what I liked the most about these books was sensation of reading personal letters, cards, and postcards.
Scared that Sabine isn't just a figment of his imagination, but a real person, Griffin flees when she comes to meet him. Now their letters and cards are coming from all around the globe. Is it real? Is it love? Is someone else watching them?

Love this book series. interactive and imaginative.
SO intriguing!
so enchanting
Yup, this keeps getting weirder and I'm mainly reading these for the 3D/letter opening aspect of it and not the strange art, but darn it, this had to end with an EVEN WORSE cliffhanger.
Love these books!
Griffin and Sabine is a unique “illustrated novel” that creates a wonderment of flights of fantasy, love-lust, intrigue, and mystery all skillfully contained in the writing of postcards and letters between a lonely young postcard maker in London and a stamp designer from the very difficult to find group of islands in the South Pacific.
Their story is revealed through a series of postcards and letters.
One can only feel somewhat that they are being allowed to ‘peek’ into the very private lives of Griffin and Sabine, and their own developing love story, or an attempt at self-understanding.
Ah! I just looooooooove these books!As a little palate cleanser, I took on this book on a quiet Saturday afternoon. What a beautiful, heart wrenching follow up to the first in the trilogy, which I read a month ago. Oh, how I just adore these books! I feel all shaky. They're so beautiful, physically and emotionally. I believe everyone should experience Bantock's work; I can't think of a soul that wouldn't be touched by them. It's impossible. (The trilogy is my current go-to literary present, even if it is over 25 years old.)
A bit of a disappointment after the very impressive first book.
It includes the same great artwork, creative use of postcards and letters, and overall unique premise - but that's just the problem; it includes exactly the same devices that made the first book so much fun, without adding anything new.
I'm still intrigued to see how this all ends, but this really only works as a place holder between the first book and a hopefully-satisfying conclusion, because Sabine's Notebook really doesn't work at all as a stand-alone book.
(And why is it called a "notebook" in the first place?
The story continues, with the characters essentially switching places this time. The artwork was at the same amazing level, but I guess the story didn't resonate with me quite as much as the first book. Griffin started to annoy me with his somewhat depressed mood and I also wanted to see how the pair would (or if they would) actually meet face-to-face.
Again, amazing book. Reading it actually makes you feel the excitement of receiving a letter/postcard from someone you care about. Through this series, you can feel yourself getting attached to both Griffin and Sabine. It's quite mysterious though, and I'm still not entirely sure Sabine even exists. Super-interesting, I'm planning to read the third one as well.
I lost interest with this one and really preferred the mysterious way the first book ended. Bantock seemed to have been under pressure from fans and the publisher both to crank out another bestseller. The passion that was so distinct with GRIFFEN & SABINE was clearly missing in SABINE'S NOTEBOOK.
Extraordinary!The letters and postcards were continuously exchanged between Griffin and Sabine but their positions were reversed. Griffin went globetrotting and soul-searching. Sabine came to his studio in London, or did she?
A bit darker than the first in this trilogy. Still lovely artwork. The book ends with another bit of mystery, but the one at the end of the first book was better, or more of a surprise, than this one.
I would say this story is a love story. And I would say this is a book for adults, though children would like it for other reasons than adults would. It's magical.
These books were some of my favorites when I was in high school. I read this in 1997. My notes then were: "Excellent artwork, as well as a compelling story. Easy read, but fascinating and unique."
Another stunning display of artwork and wordsmith. Why does Bantock love to bait me so? Off to the end of the trilogy.
Love it
