https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/837501.The_Twenty_One_Balloons
27 years of working and trying to earn a living.I know it is still far from the 40 years of being a math teacher in some high school for Professor William Waterman Sherman but once in a while, I also feel that I need to do something outrageous.
Maybe just to break the monotony of my corporate work life.
During the Summer Hot Air Balloon Festival in Clark Pampanga, last time I heard, they offer a 30-min ride for P20,000 (~ US$450).
In books, we also meet people who we never thought existed and know situations that could make us feel more fortunate and blessed.
It’s an extravagant story that involves a seemingly deserted remote island and an erratic volcano, an amusing form of government and its interesting people, otherworldly yet functional contraptions, and riches beyond man’s dream wrapped up with elements of science-fiction, inventions, fantasy, survival and social commentary all come together in a book that moves from one astonishing plot to another that only Professor William Waterman Sherman can tell.I thought I would be served up with another variation of a Jules Verne inspired tale ala Around the World in Eighty Days, what with a protagonist whose goal is to travel the world by a balloon, yet his journey is not to discover exotic lands but just a simple-minded desire to get away from the humdrum of living.
My guess is I was ten years old the first time I read this book, and I absolutely loved it.
Fast forward to today, and the book still worked for me.
It's an adventure story (can a retired old schoolteacher travel around the world in 40 days on a balloon and survive a huge volcanic eruption?), a treasure story (think bucketfuls of gigantic diamonds), and a story of science (exploring the Victorian obsession with ballooning, as well as other inventions such as electric wiring, in both realistic and fantastical ways).
This is a quick read as it's targeted towards children/young adults.
Written today it would likely be categorized as middle grade.
well, it's an old Newbery winner.
It never looked that interesting to me, just something I thought I might get around to eventually in my quest to read all the Newberies.
A couple of months back I found a like new copy at the library sale for a quarter, so I thought, Hey why not?Read it aloud to my kids, and we all thoroughly enjoyed it.
The illustrations were perfect, since he goes into a lot of technical details about hot air balloons and various contraptions, and the detailed pictures and diagrams helped a great deal.
The story was fun, and different, and very appealing (Hot air balloons!
بعد قراءتي الكثير من الروايات الموجهة للأطفال والناشئة اعترف بأن هذه الرواية..لم تبهرني كغيرها تدور الرواية حول البروفيسور ويليام الذي يقرر الذهاب برحلة حول العالم بالمنطاد على أن يغيب حوالي العام .. إلا أنه يواجهه أمورا تغير رحلته وتوقيتها وحتى نهايتها حيث يهبط في جزيرة كراكاتوا ويقرر مضيفه بقاءه معهم إلى الأبد حتى لا ينقل ما شاهده للعالم ... يعيش معهم يتعرف على طريقة عيشهم وكنزا من الألماس حتى..انفجار الجزيرة ومحاولة الخروج منها
Retro Book ReviewThe Twenty-One BalloonsBy William Pène du Bois I am a creature of habit. I order the same thing every time I go to a restaurant, I stick to a routine, and my favorites are my favorites. Many of the books I fell in love with as a child are, to this day, still my favorites. I was once told by a colleague that many of the books I enjoy are “crusty”. I believe a great book never goes out of style; it becomes a classic that can stand the test of time. Although The Twenty-One Balloons
I believe a great book never goes out of style; it becomes a classic that can stand the test of time.
My students had just read a piece on deadly volcanos and were very fascinated by the volcano at Krakatau that completely blew away an island and caused tsunamis in distant villages.
The islanders keep the jungle thick around them so they can live in secrecy and never be discovered by passing ships.
History gives us the facts about the island; the “big” eruption does come.
The Twenty-One Balloons is now on my list of all-time favorites.
I was not anticipating loving this book as much as I did!
It reads like a classic, is lighthearted and entirely fun!
People try to entice a man with spirits.
A man sails off in a hot air balloon, gets caught in an ocean storm and finds himself marooned on an island peopled with rich inventors.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
It was definitely the most memorable book I read during adolescence.
The first book, gradually followed by many others, that made me realize reading could be fun.
Sometimes it almost feels like it was the first book I completed, the first book I held in my memory, but as I go back I realize that isn't true.
All that started to change in 6th grade when I had to read "The White Mountains" for class.
And "The 21 Balloons" was the hint before that, that my feelings about reading would change.
This is a most delightful story, about Professor William Waterman Sherman (for a brief time W.
Though this book was originally written in the 1940s, it is a timeless classic.
Winner of the Newbery Medal, this story can truly be read over and over again and still maintain the excitement.
The characters are unique and quirky with something to hide-making the story a fun and thrilling read.
We were reading nonfiction information about the real island of Krakatoa and this book fit into comparing the fiction story to the nonfiction information.
The kids really enjoyed the outrageously hilarious events that occurred in the book.
I highly recommend this book to readers of fantasy and adventure.
It is a great read.
I'm quite surprised this book was awarded a Newbery.
It started off with a bit of enjoyable whimsy, quickly degenerated into a quagmire of mediocre fantasy, and grew steadily into a punishing crescendo of monotony.
The last several chapters actually hurt.
It felt something like reading an uninteresting and predictable list of inventory.
Imagine slogging through a ship's cargo manifest.
But not a cool ship...like a pirate's ...more like a freight load of something utterly unamazing...like bananas.
Page after page of descriptions of the size, weight, and volume of crates of bananas.
That's about how exciting this ridiculous story was.
I read this for school years ago. I really enjoyed it, it's funny and just a really good book.
“Half of this story is true and the other half might very well have happened.”Our story kicks off with the exciting discovery and rescue of a sophisticated professor named William Waterman Sherman, who is stranded in the North Atlantic amid the wreckage of twenty-one sadly deflated balloons.
Sherman's riveted audience only encourages his far-fetched descriptions and elaborate tales of what took place on the enchanting island...until the next catastrophe that led to the discovery of Sherman and the balloon wreckage in the first place.The Twenty-One Balloons is one of my favorite humorous family novels.
This book was one I found recommended in one of the summer issues of the children's Friend magazine, so I knew that it would not be offensive.
His insistence to only tell the story at that venue serves to increase the curiousity of the public until finally they find a way for him to be brought to San Francisco.
I enjoyed the author's clever way of introducing the story.It's a very good book, but still, it doesn't quite have everything, for me.
I do think I'll recommend this book to my son.
The same was true of my classmates...positive reviews across the board.William Walter Sherman wants to take a balloon voyage around the world.
Professor Sherman's voyage does not go exactly as planned.
Only 3 weeks after leaving the California coast, he is fished out of the Atlantic Ocean clinging to the debris of 20 balloons and a bunch of platforms.Everybody in America wants to hear the Professor's story, including the President himself.
But Professor Sherman has other ideas, and he simply refuses to utter a word until he is back in his hometown of San Fransisco and in front of the members of the Western American Explorers' Club.All of America waits as he is whisked cross country by train.
This one started out promising, with a man found at sea who had been travelling around in a small house kept aloft by a giant balloon (it reminded me of the movie Up.Unfortunately, it was less adventure story and more fantastical--much of the book is just Professor Sherman describing life on Krakatoa, where he crash landed.
Basically, a group of former San Franciscans built a bunch of restaurants there, renamed themselves letters of the alphabet, and lived an idyllic life with no crime, jobs, school, etc.
The Twenty-One Balloons by William Pene Du Bois was read to me in my gifted, or TAG class.
It is about a retired math teacher named Professor Sherman who wants to be alone.
He plans to live in it for a year, using trash for ballast.
20 families live there, lettered A to T.
(My favorite part of the book is when Mr. F.
(My favorite part of the book is when Mr. F.
I love this book because it`s exciting and the end when they escape is exciting too.
If you haven`t read this, go get yourself a copy!
Stefan's review: I really liked this. The volcano erupting was my favorite part. When he crashed is also a fun part.There were diamonds in the mountain.
A short and quirky tale about a retired teacher who sets off in a balloon to get away from it all for a year and lands on Krakatoa just before it explodes.The beginning was really good fun, I could just imagine it as a colourful cartoon in the style of 'Up'. The descriptions of what he found on Krakatoa were really interesting, there were some really good ideas.The story involves lots of balloons in various ingenious guises.
Kate DiCamillo recommended this 1948 Newbery-Award winner, so I picked it up and absolutely could not believe how charmed I was. It has nothing in common with what we might call "children's literature" today, and yet the whimsy of it--the odd childlikeness of adults and adultlikeness of children made me understand why it was once considered "kid lit."
Amusing & refreshing after reading the Voyages of Dr. Dolittle.With all the wonderful adventure and inventions in this book – I can’t help but notice this time around that the Professor is just a crotchety old man who wants to be left completely alone – he even lies to his new friends on Krakatoa Island MULTIPLE times to avoid having to do work that he doesn’t want to anymore (schoolteaching), DESPITE the fact that they have invited him into their society and given him a share of the diamonds – without giving him a day of the month to cook on!
Whether enjoying the view in the Giant Balloon Life Raft, listening with the rest of the world as Professor Sherman tells his tale, or simply flipping the pages of a book reading through the story, everyone is taken on an adventure through loyalty, wonderful characters, and frankly fantastic styles in The Twenty-One Balloons.
Also, fantastic word choice was seen throughout the book to describe the inventions, and perhaps just some sights Professor Sherman saw, and gave some great vocabulary to build up William Waterman Sherman’s character, an astonishingly brilliant man who has a flair for adventures and is loyal to everyone and anyone he crosses paths with.
Reading the book through adult eyes, I see things a little differently -- a number of suggestions made in the book simply don't make sense in real life -- but it's still a fun read.One of the things I didn't realize when I was a child is that The Twenty-One Balloons is, in essence, a utopian story for children.
The book is slower than a number of current books, taking time to show and explain scenes that probably would have been passed over by more modern authors.
He plans a wonderful adventure: he will spend a year sailing around the world in a giant balloon.
Could this incredible report be true?Mine: Just like the days of Around the World in 80 Days – the balloon is the key point of the story.
His plan is to stay in the air for a year, unfortunately he doesn’t make it and lives on an mysterious island with a world of it’s own.When the island suffers a great volcano eruption, he is sent on his way so that he can tell the story of the island and it’s riches.
Instead of finding a deserted island, however, he comes upon a strange community of people.The community has a source of wealth, a magnificent diamond mine, that allows the people to do anything they wish.
Sherman is shown novel designs for homes and odd inventions that have come from the clever minds of the island's residents.
Despite their apparent creativity and great wealth, the people choose to live on an island that, every hour of the day, threatens their lives.
Very, very peculiar book.And what an odd coincidence that Twenty-One Balloons is my twenty-first book of the year!
The protagonist, William Waterman Sherman, leaves San Francisco to fly across the Pacific in a single balloon (inspired by real-life airship pioneers such as Henri Giffard and Felix Nadar).
After an amusing, suspense-building delay in recounting the story of his travels, Sherman finally tells it all: of an unlimited supply of boulder-size mines, a secret colony of billionaires on Krakatoa, a calendar based on the world’s cuisines, inventive architecture, and the real-life explosion that destroyed the island in 1883.This is close to the ideal children’s book: fantastic enough to inspiring and beg emulation (who hasn’t dreamed of unlimited wealth and fantastic contraptions?), but grounded enough in reality to reward any further curiosity about some of the subjects or events, and with a crafty everyman hero who revels in all manner of adventure.

This is another book I was pre-reading for my son and the humor took me by surprise.
The story is of a San Francisco man in the late 1800's who decides to retire from teaching math to adolescent boys and take a vacation.
He wants a vacation that has no destination and he doesn't want to be bothered by anyone, so he has an elaborate balloon built and stocks it so that he can float across the Pacific.
Everyone wants the story, but he only wants to tell the Western Explorer's Club, of which he is a member.
This story begins with Professor William Waterman Sherman being found in the Atlantic Ocean surrounded by 20 hot air balloons.
Since it was well publicized that the Professor left San Francisco a month prior in one hot air balloon with the intention of flying around the world for a year, everyone wonders what he is doing in the wrong ocean with so many balloons.
But Professor Sherman refuses to tell any piece of his story until he reaches San Francisco.
Once Professor Sherman finally gets to tell the tales of his trip, this book is a page turner full of wonderful, fanciful inventions.
The Twenty-One Balloons is a winner of the Newbery Medal and an interesting story about Professor William Waterman Sherman and his idea to live for 1 year in a hot air balloon.
The other way is not to care particularly where you are going or how long it will take you, or whether you will get there or not." Sherman uses the second type of travel.
His travel takes him around the whole world with a rather long stop off on the island of Krakatoa, Indonesia.
This is a great book for kids and interesting topics to discuss.
A Very Interesting Read! I enjoyed reading this very detailed account of Professor William Waterman Sherman's balloon journey to the island of Krakatoa and back again. While I could easily identify with the Professor's desire to escape the entrapments of daily life, I probably wouldn't choose a balloon as a means to do so. However, if I did choose to I would feel as though I had some prior knowledge of ballooning after reading this book. The author's descriptions and illustrations are superb. I was amazed by his imagination and creativity.
