https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24611455-maigret
In the simply titled Maigret (also published as Maigret Returns), former Detective Chief Inspector Maigret abandons his comfortable retirement in the Loire to return to Paris to extricate his nephew from a murder charge.
But due to his naïveté and blundering, Philippe finds himself charged with the murder of Pepito Palestrino, a scoundrel of a night-club owner.
But Maigret still has his intelligence, his encyclopedic knowledge of human nature, and the loyalty of his longtime assistant, Sergeant Lucas.
Readers — whether longtime Maigret aficionados or newbies — will adore this suspenseful read.
পযারিসের অদূরে লোয়ার ভযালির গরামে রিটায়ার করে গেছেন মেইগরে। বাগান করা, মাছ ধরা, এসবই তার বরতমান কাজ, ঘর-সংসার দেখেন চিরবিশবসত মাদাম মেইগরে। হঠাৎ শীতের রাতে দরজায় সজোর ধাককা। "খালু! খালু!" রাত দুপুরে টযাকসি নিয়ে সোজা পযারিস থেকে চলে এসেছে ভাগনে ফিলিপ - পুলিশ বাহিনীতে ওর চাকরির বযবসথা মেইগরেই করে দিয়েছিল। অঘটন ঘটিয়ে ফেলেছে বেচারা - মোমারতরের এক নাইটকলাবে খুনের ঘটনায় জড়িয়ে গেছে কিভাবে। উপায়-বুদধি না পেয়ে ছুটে এসেছে খালুর কাছে সাহাযয চাইতে। অবসর নিয়েছে তো কি হয়েছে, মেইগরে নিশচয়ই কোন এক পথ বাতলে দিতে
ভালোমন্দ (মূলত মন্দ) মানুষে ঠাসা এই মোমার্ত্র - বারের মালিক, দেহপসারিনী, নাইটক্লাবের ওয়েটার, অবৈধ ইমিগ্র্যান্ট, ড্রাগ ব্যবসায়ী। এদের মধ্যে থেকেই একজন ছোটখাটো গডফাদার - জের্মা কাযেও - যে খুনের পেছনে, তা ঠাহর করতে মেইগ্রের বেশী বেগ পেতে হয় না। কিন্তু মুশকিল তো অকাট্য প্রমান জোগাড়ে। কাযেওর মতো লোক কাঁচা কাজ করবে না, একাধিক খুন সে ইতিমধ্যে করিয়েছে। কিন্তু তার চ্যালাচামুন্ডাদের মধ্যে কে সবচেয়ে নাজুক, কার উপর চাপ প্রয়োগ করলে আঁটি ভাঙবে?
সময় বেশি নেই - ভাগ্নের জেলহাজতের ব্যবস্থা করছে ইন্সপেক্টর আমাদিউ। মেইগ্রেকে অপছন্দ করার মতো লোকের অভাব ছিল না পুলিশ হেডকোয়ার্টারে। রিটায়ার করার পরেও দেখি নিস্তার নেই, চলে এসেছে অকম্মা ভাগ্নেকে বাঁচাতে, পুলিশী তদন্তে বাগড়া দিতে। কিন্তু মেইগ্রে তো প্রশান্ত আইসবার্গের মতো। একবার গতিপথ ঠিক করে ফেললে তাকে ঠেলে সরানো কি সহজ কাজ?
A short take:I wondered if Maigret would be “retired” for long and, sure enough, Simenon not only concocts a nifty excuse to bring Maigret back, he also takes full advantage of Maigret’s civilian status to make the ensuing investigation more interesting.
This installment is notable for a fantastic exchange between Maigret and his successor, who says:“You have to admit that your method is impossible to apply in a case like this one...Usually, you get involved in people’s lives; you try to understand their thinking and you take as much interest in things that happened to them twenty years earlier as you do in concrete clues...”This is exactly Maigret’s method and also the main reason why I like these books.
Τί να πει κανείς για τον Επιθεωρητή Μαιγκρέ....αγαπώ πολύ
As far back as 1934, Georges Simenon wrote a book about Inspector Maigret in retirement, forced to return to the scene of his travails when his nephew Philippe, also with the police, maladroitly becomes accused of a murder he did not commit.
Eventually the chief gave in and phone calls were made from one office to another.As if his ambiguous position were not bad enough, he is pitted against an unusually clever bank of gangsters who seem to be immune from prosecurtion.
But, as we can surmise, Maigret eventually comes out ahead using a clever trick.This is a new translation by Ros Schwartz of a novel variously called in English Maigret or Maigret Returns.
This is a strange book, a sequel to the last one (The Lock at Charenton). Maigret is still retired but comes back to Paris to help out his nephew (a cop), who is being framed for murder. The usual suspects (and types) but the storyas a whole is not that interesting. It almost seems like Simenon is planning to "retire" the whole Maigret series, an event which luckily does not come off. There is, however a long hiatus in Maigret novels after this one.
Called in by his sister-in-law to save his nephew from a murder charges, he still commands respect from his former colleagues but has no power and the criminals know he may still have a bark but he has no bite.The author therefore plays with this frustration and Maigret seems unable to break the case even though it is clear guilt lies elsewhere, no-one will grass within the criminal gang.Maigret's usual skills and methods are not helpful since he cannot question directly; his intuition wasted as he cannot get the proof he requires to exonerate his relation.This is a very interesting book, seeing Magret almost a comic figure, impotent to change events.
It was rather distressing to discover that "Philippe" (in later novels "Paul", and working concurrently with a non-retired Maigret) was originally a redhead, instead of the dark and debonair Paul he morphed into.
But never mind, Simenon gaily changed Madame's name from Henriette to Louise and moved her back and forth at will, from being originally from Alsace to being born in Belgium without batting an eye.I really didn't enjoy the first half of this short novel, but Simenon's depiction of Maigret as a tired old has-been was very well done.
Although this book may be considered a novella at just 140 pages, it took me nearly two weeks to finish. I couldn't fall into step with the reasoning of Maigret. This book was recommended to me by a bookseller. It is the first title of Georges Simenon I have read but is #19 in the Maigret series. I originally gave it only one star, but removed my rating. I feel I am missing the back story and rhythm of this writer.
Wat minder. Maigret, net gepensioneerd, helpt zijn neef die beschuldigd wordt van moord. Het slot, de wijze waarop Maigret in een uitzichtloze situatie toch wint, is wel heel sterk.
Although it later become the convention of the series to have Maigret’s name in the title, the earlier ones didn’t (although the later English translations often included his name): this is the first one that proclaimed itself as a Maigret novel with the simple title Maigret.
In the previous book in the series Maigret had retired to live in the country, but now he ‘returns’: his nephew, a young police officer, has been framed for a murder and Maigret sets off to Paris to sort it out.
Typically this isn’t a whodunit, Maigret quickly realises what has happened and who is behind the murder, the problem is to prove it, especially as he has no official support from the police.
The nephew of now-retired Inspector Maigret is a police officer in Paris working in Maigret's former department.
The nephew is accused of killing a criminal during a stakeout - and Maigret returns to Paris to prove his nephew is innocent.
Without authority to investigate, Maigret faces significant challenges in his attempts to clear his nephew.Not unsurprising given there are about 70-some books in this series, to find the next installment pulls Maigret from his French countryside retirement back to Paris to investigate a crime.
And what can be sufficiently strong enough motivation than to save a nephew whom he helped get the job.
The nineteenth Maigret (these written between between 1931 and 1934), and in this one Maigret has retired to the country and comes back to Paris when his nephew, a rookie policemen, is suspected of murder.I imagine that Simenon had decided to finish Maigret, just as Conan Doyle tried to do the same with Sherlock Holmes.The next one was not until, 1940, and in the end there were 75!This one is superb again, with the characters of the worlds of nightclubs and the underworld displayed in all their grimness. And Maigret solves this with a true tour de force. Great.
Questa volta Maigret, in pensione, è costretto a rientrare a Parigi per dare aiuto al nipote Philippe, entrato in polizia grazie allo zio e nei guai perché ingiustamente accusato di omicidio. L’ex commissario, grazie anche all’aiuto dei suoi vecchi colleghi, riesce a venirne fuori con un … colpo di mano!Molto interessanti le descrizioni degli ambienti e dei personaggi della criminalità parigina che animano la vicenda ed i giochi di ruolo con gli ex colleghi poliziotti.
Soon his country life is interrupted by his nephew knocking at his door late at night.
It's up to Maigret to return to Paris to clear his nephew's name.Georges Simenon could reasonably lay claim to being the most prolific author of the 20th Century with over 500 novels and numerous short works to his credit.
The Maigret series, published between 1931 and 1972, comprises 75 of these novels and 28 short stories and has been portrayed on screen by such varied actors as Michael Gambon, Richard Harris, and Rowan Atkinson.
If these are staples of Simenon's work, then it's easy to see why this character is so enduring.
Perhaps five Maigret novellas in under four weeks, albeit interspersed with other reading, has proved to be too much.
Could this have something to do with the story originally being published in instalments in "Le Jour"?
The solution does show the great depth of Maigret's understanding of human psychology, and some technical ingenuity, but there were times when his slowness and seeming lack of acuity was irritating.The writing is clear, and the translation reads well, but, overall, I did not particularly enjoy this tale of the retired detective trying to clear his nephew of a murder charge.
After his nephew bungles a stakeout, Chief Inspector Maigret is called out of his quiet retirement in the countryside to exonerate him from a murder charge.
What is different about this case is that Maigret is at a distinct disadvantage.
The officer who replaced him as chief initially refuses to help and is content to hang the gangland murder on the rookie officer.
But Maigret plows forward with dogged determination and (view spoiler)[eventually vindicates his inept nephew who wisely decides to give up police work and return to his Provençal hometown (hide spoiler)].
I have enjoyed the new remakes of the Maigret Series from BBC with Rowan Atkinson, so thought I'd try a book from the series. This particular one takes place after Maigret has retired and he, along with his wife, have moved to the country.He decides to come out retirement when his nephew, who is a police officer, bungled a case and is charged with murder.Needless to say, Maigret in his own style, figures the case out while ruffling feathers. A good read. A 4-star read for me, but this is what I'm partial to.
Az első a Parkosok közül, amit a kezembe vettem, és nagyon-nagyon bejött; a forma és a tartalom egyaránt. Izgalmas történet, amiben Maigret igen keveset alszik, rengeteget vedel (hogy bír egy egész üveg bor gyors elfogyasztása után is értelmesen érvelni, mi több, a nyulat kiugrasztani a bokorból?!), és bár már nyugdíjban van, mindent elkövet, hogy tisztára mossa ártatlan, ámde tényleg mamlasz unokaöcsét. :) Hamarosan bővebben a blogon.
Great book!Georges Simenon was really adept at describing the scenery and imagery of Maigret's world, and the psychology of his books is breathtaking!In this book Simenon invents the recorded confession technique known from many modern crime dramas. He builds the suspense with the touch of a master!
As you can tell from my previous reviews I love Simenon's books, especially his Maigret series. This one however stands out brilliantly for me because Maigret is not his usual self assured self here and must really, really battle to solve the crime.
All of the Maigret books are worth reading, including this one, but I found the ending vaguely unsatisfying.
Maigret has retired from the Paris police force and is living in a rural area. When his nephew, a policeman, becomes a murder suspect, Maigret is forced to return to Paris to try to clear his nephew.
Although Siménon's 'roman durs' are better written, the Maigret series is a good read as well.
Not as good as some of the other Maigret novels I've read, but it was still interesting.
Ormai è diventata una specie di dipendenza...che dire?
Maigret, retired, returns to Paris to assist a relative, despite the resistance of some former colleagues.
A long series of novels is a special development of the form of writing called the novel.
Maigret comes out of retirement to help his nephew who works as a policeman in Paris. He understands the thinking of this gang of criminals. What he needs to do is get the evidence. He seems really irritated and ready to go back home.
Una notte, il tranquillo tran-tran viene sconvolto dal nipote: giovane poliziotto a Parigi, è accusato di aver ucciso il padrone (un prestanome, come si scoprirà ben presto) del locale che era incaricato di sorvegliare.
Le modalità sono le solite – molto spirito di osservazione, testardaggine al limite del masochismo (Maigret resta seduto allo stesso tavolo di un bistrot per un infinito numero di ore) e alcune brillanti intuizioni – ma l’indagine svolta nell’ambiente della piccola criminalità parigina che sfrutta prostituzione, spaccio e locali equivoci segue un percorso diverso dal solito: non c’è la caccia a un assassino misterioso bensì il lungo lavorio necessario per spingere alla confusione l’evidente colpevole.
