https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26077475-death-in-the-tunnel
I was really looking forward to this, not just because it satisfied a task in this year’s holiday scavenger hunt, but also because I was hoping to discover more great writers from the golden age of mystery writing.Sadly, for me Death in the Tunnel fell short of that mark.
The story started out great with a mysterious death on a train that seemed to occur just as the train passed through a tunnel, yet there were no witnesses, no motives, no suspects, and according to the chief investigator it looked like suicide.
Ha! I love a good whodunnit, and that big smile when all is revealed is why! This was a very complicated murder with lots of moving parts. Desmond Merrion, Inspector Arnold's brainy friend, reminded me a little bit of Nero Wolfe for some reason.There aren't very many frills on this narrative - the book is very puzzle focused. But Inspector Arnold is one of those laconic, stiff-upper-lip British policemen, and I enjoyed it a lot.I had no idea whodunnit. BTW.
As the local police worked, slowly and methodically, so many things suggested that Sir Wilfred had died by his own hand.There were unanswered questions though, and so an officer from Scotland Yard was summoned.Inspector Arnold believed that there had been a murder; and that to carry out the murder there must have been an elaborate conspiracy.
He called in his old friend Desmond Merrion – a criminologist and amateur detective – and between them they untangled the puzzle.I can’t say much at all about the plot without giving too much away, but I can tell you many things I loved about this book.I believed in all of the people in the story, and the things they said and did.
This was an enjoyable puzzle, but it was very dense with information - like a detailed report. I couldn't read too much at once. Recommended for people who like Sherlock Holmes-style mysteries.
Sir Wilfred Saxonby is found shot dead alone in his compartment on the train from London to his home in the country.
As the door of the compartment was locked and the gun is close to the body was it suicide?
The police are not satisfied that it was and Scotland Yard are called in and Inspector Arnold gets to work with the help of his friend Desmond Merrion - a criminologist and amateur detective.
I loved the way the tiny snippets of information gradually built up into a case which could be proved against the murderer.
Never are you left feeling that the detective has made a sudden leap and left you behind — you have the clues you need, provided you can make something of them.I can’t really put my finger on why it worked so well for me: it’s just well-structured, with enough to keep one interested and some odd puzzles along the way.
And it all makes sense, too; you can see the character and what drives him.The fact that the detective (not the police officer, but the independent guy the policeman consults for some reason) is the same guy from The Secret of High Eldersham is kind of irrelevant: he remains a bit of a non-entity, just distinguished by being clever.
A light and fun read with a totally bonkers plot at its heart! Definitely one for those of us who enjoy a good puzzle at the heart of crime fiction. Remember those old Enid Blyton books where the Famous Five explore old railway tunnels? This reminded me of them, with one of the maddest and most ingenious ways of committing murder ever!
Four and a half stars.This is just the sort of murder mystery that I enjoy most. The murder happened right at the beginning and all the story is unfolded to the reader by the detection process. A fiendishly clever and intricate plot with red herrings galore; I can't imagine how the author dreamed it all up.Super example of British Golden Age Murder Mystery. Very highly recommended.
4.5 starsI found this story was quite a lengthy, elaborate in terms of investigation.Sir saxonby is 
All of which brings me to Miles Burton’s 1936 novel, Death in the Tunnel, a Golden Age mystery featuring a highly suspicious incident that takes place during a train journey.As the novel opens, the 5 pm train from London’s Cannon Street is travelling to Stourford via its usual route.
A little while after the train enters the Blackdown Tunnel, the train driver suddenly applies the breaks, causing the guard to commence a check of all the compartments to see if there has been an emergency on board.
3.5 stars. Read for the #BLCCchallenge on Instagram with @catebutler and @pagesandcup. Thanks ladies!
After a slow and somewhat wooden start this becomes an entertaining puzzle of a story.
Can they outwit the seemingly perfect perpetrators?A traditional ‘locked room’ mystery, Death in the Tunnel was the first of the British Library crime series I have read.
The series features re-issues of various Golden Age crime novels, popular at the time but forgotten by the reading public until recently.There were parts of the story where I was silently shouting at Arnold, telling him to stop being an idiot and see what was blatantly obvious to the reader and to Merrion.
I had figured out the main motives and spotted the red herrings before the reveals but this didn’t alter my enjoyment of the story.There is something comforting about Golden Age crime novels.
A most enjoyable and very challenging puzzle which kept me guessing almost to the end.Although the death takes place in a railway train in a tunnel this is not one of those mysteries which drearily relies on the minutiae of rail timetables although timing and timetables do play a part.There are lots of fine red herrings and the author leads everyone except Desmond Merrion up a lot of blind alleys. Highly recommended.
I'm sure that if it were a modern crime story there would have been a great deal about the Inspector's superiors disagreeing with him and urging him to close the case in the interests of efficiency and costs.
That Inspector is aided in his investigation by one Desmond Merrion, said to be 'a wealthy amateur expert in criminology'.
If I have another criticism, it is that the reason for the crime, and others that come to light, become rather complicated, perhaps too complicated for a lightweight novel.On a totally nerdish level we are told that the murder takes place on a train leaving Cannon Street and from talk of chalk downs it is clear that the train is heading to Kent or Sussex, although the destination is fictitious.
Though I may not have loved, loved, loved Death in the Tunnel by Miles Burton, I did find it a thoroughly enjoyable read.
And this murder occurs on a train--in a train tunnel.
Two men set about solving this mystery, Desmond Merrion (who has his own series, this is #13) and Inspector Arnold (from Scotland Yard).
The murder was made to look like a suicide--a gun with the victim's initials are found in his compartment.
Death in the Tunnel is certainly not a character-driven novel.
I am glad to see more golden-age mystery novels being brought back into print.
As a puzzle, it was excellent. As a mystery, it was lacking. Part of the problem with the mystery aspect was that an entire secondary plot was introduced toward the end, and part of the problem was that the murder plot was ridiculously complicated and (view spoiler)[the victim's theft plan seemed a little over the top, even with the hints that he felt the law didn't apply to him. Also, it rendered him such an asshole that it was hard to feel properly glad that the murderers were caught and executed. (hide spoiler)]
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
It has aged well but was obviously old in places.
Sir Wilfred Saxonby asks for a private first class compartment on the train to his home.
The conductor notices him sleeping as they enter a two mile long tunnel.
The train slows almost to a stop and, on his way back through, the conductor sees Sir Wilfred has not moved.
When he enters the compartment, the man is dead, shot through the heart.
This was a good book but it got a little tangled up in details and showed its age in places.
All in all, it was a very good story.
This is quite a fascinating puzzler from the Golden Age of British crime fiction.
It is a variant on the classic 'locked room' mystery--a man is murdered in a closed compartment on a train as it is traversing a long, dark tunnel in the British countryside.
At first the murder is assumed a suicide, as nobody on the train could have committed the act.
From that point we follow Inspector Arnold of Scotland Yard and, more importantly, his friend Desmond Merrion, as they deduce what actually occurred.
At times the tale does read like IKEA assembly instructions--if A did this, then B did this, and there might even be a C.
He's a wealthy financier who has little patience for people who want to live outside of what he thinks is right.
This includes his niece who has come to live with him, the daughter who is fighting with her husband, and any number of the people who have applied for charity from the fund that Saxonby oversaw.It's still a surprise to find him dead in a railroad carriage.
Yes, it was his normal day to ride that train but today was different, today the train slowed in the tunnel and it was just enough time for Sir Saxonby to die.
A fun 1930's classic whodunnit era murder mystery.
And it seemed to me that the detective and his chum seemed to spend forever mulling over and discussing the case, most of which could have been condensed down to less than half of the pages taken up.But having said that, I enjoyed it.
Half the fun of these books are the pictures they paint of 1930's England, and the attitudes prevalent at the time.
The story is almost incidental to that at times, and there is a satisfactory denouement at the end.
This book offers a good, classic mystery set during the 1930s.
A prominent businessman is found shot in a locked train compartment.
At first it appears to be a suicide, since the death took place when the train was passing through a long tunnel.
However, once a Scotland Yard inspector is brought in he begins to suspect foul play.
With the help of a friend, who is a talented amateur sleuth, they piece together the sophisticated crime.
Suspects include a former company branch manager, a cousin who will benefit financially from his death, his two adult children, and a former business partner.


Since this book was written in the 1930s, it has a very different writing style which I found to be refreshing. Even though early on I had a good idea of how the man on the train was murdered, I couldn't wait to see how the investigators went about solving the case. If you are interested in something that doesn't fall into today's typical murder mystery genre and want to go back to a simpler time - try this book.
Maybe the best "humdrum" mystery I've read--by which I mean, I finished it! These type of mysteries have characters, but no one really cares what motivations these characters have, except to make the plot go. In this one, the plot doesn't flag much (except in the complicated checkbook saga near the end), and the puzzle is truly puzzling. Plus, what a great cover!
Classic British crime/mystery apparently is not my genre. This book was painful to get through, and after 221 pages I didn't care who done it...I just wished it was over! No character development, confusing lines of mystery solving. No emotion, no suspense. Quite possibly the worst book I have forced myself to finish.
A classic from the Golden Age of Crime. The author focuses on the intricacies of how the crime was committed, rather than getting to know the motivations of the characters or about the detectives.
Another good one from Miles Burton - they are so detailed in their descriptions of what the detectives are thinking or doing that you can try and work out the plot alongside them and it's written in an interesting way which is good. Needless to say I didn't get the baddie right though!
