https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20893485-the-ship-of-brides
I don't think I would have picked this up by myself (the synopsis didn't sound all too exciting to me), but I got the book gifted to me by someone who knows how much I loved Me Before You. I definitely need to remember to give this person a massive 'Thank you!' now!I was majorly surprised by how interesting I found the entire journey.
The plot is very linear, there are no big surprises or plot twists.
I fell in love with them and wanted to find out more and more about them.
I have just finished my third book The Ship of Brides and will be singing its praises to everyone I meet.
It’s the end of World War II and thousands of Australian women, War Brides, will be traveling to England to reunite with the men they married.
Over 600 will not have the luxury of traveling on a ship like the Queen Mary with all of its amenities, but will make the six week journey on The Victoria, an aircraft carrier.
I started to wonder about the women and ship the book is based on.
The Ship of Brides held my attention from start to finish.

So...ummm....yeah....I just finished this and I don't have words. Multiple superlatives will be used. This one moved me in so many ways. Holy shite, what a story. I became quite attached to Frances and Maggie. I will miss them.Jojo Moyes is a versatile novelist. She picks a topic she wants to write about and makes it her own. There's a richness and depth to this story that surpasses Me Before You.
What a wonderful book that I've just finished.
It was a pleasure to read this book, the first of Jo Jo Moyes that I have had the pleasure to read.
We learn about life on board in trying times, and the crew that is charged with getting our brides there safe and sound.
This should be read by students as well, there's a true story amongst the happy and sad moments.
The poor brides who received a telegram 'Not wanted, don't come'.
Heart breaking.Please do read this, highly recommended by this Aussie girl who has learnt a lot.
A perfect holiday read.
Opening Line: “The first time I saw her again, I felt as if I’d been hit.”I absolutely loved this book, another winner from JoJo Moyes who bases this moving story on real events (and her own grandmother) Taking the reader back to 1946 in the aftermath of the Second World War as thousands of young war brides are transported from Australia to England to meet up with their GI husbands who they’d married during the conflict.
I felt like I was on a slow boat to Britain right along with them.
It felt almost like each of the heroines was being held back from us, preventing the reader from being in anyone's head, heart, or experiencing their full range of emotions, and I prefer to be completely one with the character, so this method of not letting us know who these women really are until the last 15% doesn't work well for me.And why, oh why, did there even have to be a dog if it's going to end like that??????But I was fascinated by the story itself, by the fact all these brides are shoved together on an aircraft carrier for six weeks, by the fact that the captain pushed aircraft overboard, appalled by the behavior of some drunken seamen, even more shocked at the unfortunate "Not Wanted Don't Comes".
I love JoJo Moyes and her ability to make Chick-lit (which I love), just a bit different.
I found the storyline hard to get in to, possibly a little dull at times.
I don't know much about the subject of Australian war brides and the book didn't really help.
I found it hard to pick up on the love the brides had for their English husbands when we had no idea on their backgrounds.I want to keep trying to get through this, I wouldn't recommend as the best book to get into JoJo Moyes.
Firstly I have to say that this is a tough book to get into.
I put it down many times and only read little bits at a time, It almost felt like I was reading this for school.
If it was by any other author I would've given up.
I'm so glad I kept with it.Once you actually read a meaty chuck of it you start to feel like your really on board the ship apart of these brides lives.
Characters/POV Told in third person narrative, there a 4 main brides out of the 650 women who end up being roomies togethe
I'm so glad I kept with it.Once you actually read a meaty chuck of it you start to feel like your really on board the ship apart of these brides lives.
Part three only has one chapter which I guess is more of an Epilogue, that takes place back in 2002 where the book started from.Is this a sad book?Not really, there a are things in the brides lives that happen on board that can be a bit sad, they all start off stepping aboard exited to be reunited with their husbands in the end...(view spoiler)[ only one of the brides is happily reunited with her husband.
2,5 Sterne ⭐
Mir gefällt ihr Schreibstil - nicht zwangsläufig die Erzählform.
Bei "Über uns der Himmel, unter uns das Meer" behält Jojo Moyes ihren einzigartigen Stil bei.
Das störte mich zum Ende ein bisschen, aber nicht allzu sehr.
Die Zeitsprünge und Wechsel der Perspektiven waren nicht immer ideal gestaltet mMn. Ich hatte gelegentlich Probleme in die gewechselte Situation oder Zeit hineinzufinden.
Schade ist auch, dass mir teilweise das Schicksal des Hundes näherging als das von Frances zum Schluss...
Denn alles in allem hat die Autorin wieder ein (auf die ein oder andere Weise) berührendes und starkes Werk erschaffen.
This was BEYOND boring! I thought would never end ._.The prologue was so touching I was convinced the book gonna be great. I was wrong.
I like Jojo Moyes but I'd avoided reading this one because of the time period. It's not something that interests me BUT what a mistake. I was quickly drawn in to the lives of these Australian women en route for the UK after the war as husbands of British servicemen. I loved the variety of characters, the understated love story, it all worked really well. I could easily see this as a film!
Great ending. Many a time I almost gave up on it. It is rather darker then I expected.
HMS Victoria is one of the ships reaching the last of the war brides to their new home.
The novel also follows the story of the captain of the ship, a marine officer, a jealous war bride and a dear little dog, Maudie.
After all, there was constant thought in my head as I read this book: 'A 6 weeks journey across the sea with a ship full of brides.
How exciting is this going to get?' But post the 50% mark of the story, Moyes got the waves churning: drama, scandal, love, tears, friendship, enmity.
I am usually not reading the genre of books Jojo Moyes is writing, but I definitely decided to give this author a try when I read the blurb of this book and the many reviews saying that this story is different from what she usually writes.
It was perfect, the balance between all the characters and the different elements and the fact that we didn't know the exact fate of every woman on the ship just made it feel very realistic.
The next time I get a chance to buy second hand books, I will definitely give another book of this author a chance - maybe the genre doesn't matter as much anymore.
Ich bin froh dieses Buch als Hörbuch gehört zu haben. Der Anfang war ziemlich zäh. Es hat lange gedauert bis ich in die Geschichte rein gekommen bin. Auch dass es aus so vielen Sichten erzählt wird, war sehr verwirrend. Es wäre besser gewesen, wenn immer dabei gestanden wäre, aus wessen Sicht gerade erzählt wird! Ab ca. der Hälfte war ich dann in der Geschichte drin und der Schluss war so spannend, dass ich nicht aufhören konnte!
Very long and drawn out. Lost interest throughout. Probably my least favorite of Jojo Moyes.
I didn't know that such marriages were so much common during IIWW.2) Beautiful, gripping fictional stories.3) Perfectly chosen characters.4) A captivating, deep understanding of human nature.There was moment (nearer the end) when I thought it was drifting to 4 stars.
Yes, not for every of main characters but enough to feel warm closing the book.I tell you, Frances, Margaret, Avice, Jean were magnificent persons, each one in her own way.
What happened to them before, during and after the voyage showed how different life and people are but at the same time how alike.
This novel starts off in Australia, where over 600 Australian brides need to be transported to their English husbands in England, to go and live as a married couple now that the War is over.
Some are from wealthy families, some are simple farm girls, some are young and naive, and some are hiding very dark pasts.This novel is based on a true story and on the real life 'ship of brides', the Vicorious, which carried brides from Australia to England after the War, and there are some real life journal extracts from that time scattered throughout the novel.
I'm wondering if I built it up too much in my head before reading as I thought the premise a really interesting one.
Actually, that's the problem I have: this book read like a tv series.
I feel like you could literally hand sections of the book to a director and, in order, he'll make an Avice episode, the Frances background episode, etc.A quick, easy read with an interesting premise based on true events.
Good, but it feels like it could have been so much better.
I would be interested in reading more of this author's work.
. A really enjoyable read with an original and interesting plot. Great characterisation not quite as gripping as some of her other books but it's stayed with me and would highly recommend it.
4.5 stars A beautiful story that needed to be told.
Another fantastic page turner from JoJo Moyes. What a terrific story!
The Ship of Brides had a bit of a slow burn, which was pribebly because of the large amount of POVs for just one ship. Towards the end It got good and emotional.
According to the acknowledgements, her story and others inspired The Ship of Brides, which was originally released back in 2005 but has recently been reissued by Penguin.The war has ended and out of the remaining war brides in Australia, Margaret, Avice, Jean, and Frances have each been chosen to travel to England aboard HMS Victory in a push to reunite them with their husbands.
Moyes does a wonderful job blending in historical quotes from real men and women concerning the actual HMS Victorious mission, setting the scene mood of the novel quite nicely.
The Ship of Brides is a moving story based on a real events taking place in the immediate aftermath of the Second World War, as thousands of young women were transported to Great Britain or the United States from Australia to meet up with the GI-husbands they married when they were stationed in the country during the conflict.
O šitas reiškinys buvo dar vienas papildomas, nors ir palyginti juokingas, karo nuostolis.
Negali statyti į gretą su milijonais žuvusių, sužalotų ir palaužtų žmonių, o iš vienos pusės daug tų porų turbūt laimingai gyveno ir jų gyvenimas pasisuko gera linkme, bet kai pagalvoji apie visumą, tai tėra dar vienas suardytos tvarkos pavyzdys.
Po „Aš prieš tave“ vis tikėjausi dar vienos tokios stiprios istorijos ir niekaip nepasiduodu su Moyes knygomis, bet kažkaip pradedu jausti tendenciją, kad visos kitos jos knygos tiesiog paprastos, lengvos romantikos varomos istorijos, kurioms visgi trūksta kažkokios galios.
I found the premise of this book to be more compelling than the actual story.
Throughout, I wanted to know more about the relationships with the brides and their husbands.
The book was primarily based on the relationships they develop on board with the other brides.
It wasn't until the very end of the book that many pieces of the story came together.
For example, the Captain's back story was excruciatingly slow to develop.
This book just fell a bit short for me.One thing I did enjoy was learning many foreign Australian and British colloquial terms.
