https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24094.Wolf_Speaker
This didn't excite me as much as its predecessor, Wild Magic, primarily for the following reason:Daine and Numair are in the forest thenDaine enters into the mind of an animal.Daine and Numair and some wolves are in the forest thenDaine enters into the mind of an animal.Daine and Numair go to a castle thenDaine enters into the mind of an animal.Daine hangs out with wolves and thenDaine enters into the mind of an animal.Daine meets some immortals, good and bad, and thenDaine enters into the mind of an animal.Daine enters into the mind of an animal to talk to Numair through a barrier.Daine is always tired because it takes a lot of energy whenDaine enters into the mind of an animal.Daine enters into the mind of an animals to go everywhere, all the time, forever and ever amen.
Okay, that's it, you get the point.
And Pierce does a good job of giving the reader enough backstory and reminders from the first book, so even if you're like me and are resuming this series after a long absence, you should be fine.As is also the case with Pierce's books, there is almost no setup - Wolf-Speaker starts practically in the middle of the action, with a wolf pack (the same pack who Daine briefly ran with after her mother's death, when she nearly lost her own sense of humanity) contacting our heroine and asking for help.
Daine, now fourteen, meanwhile is heading with her mentor/teacher, the mage Numair Salmalin, their horses including Cloud, and Kitten the dragon baby, towards the pack for they have sent for her help as their new home, Dunlath is in trouble.
Daine begins to learn and practice more of what her wild magic makes her capable of, and these new found powers and her friends are what help her face and defeat the “villains” of the piece.
I enjoyed watching Daine, who spends much of the novel away from human company, explore her new powers or rather the new uses she discovers of her magic.
Despite her young age, she may be the only person who can set things right.Daine is fourteen years old in this second installment, and like every teenager on the planet, she thinks that she knows everything.
And for all of Daine’s stubbornness, she listens.Daine spends the vast majority of this book cut off from all of the human characters that I grew to love in Wild Magic, with a cast of animal friends.
Although I really love the conflict that arises from Daine’s involvement with the animals (exposure to her magic makes them more and more intelligent and human-like), I just don’t find them as interesting as the human characters.
I'll try.First of all, to let some parts of it speak for themselves, here are a few lines of sparkling dialogue from this book, iconified by awesome people who are not me:Pretty much the whole book is like that.
She's also a lot more sheltered than the kids Daine met at Pirate's Swoop, and though she has maturity, spine, and spunk, she's not quite as open-minded.
It was nice, though, that Maura represented a part of the nobility Daine hadn't really encountered much: the kind that doesn't go around kicking ass and taking names and generally being open-minded and awesome in all possible ways.
They were a crucial part in her development, and it was disappointing to me that they were so lacking in character.I found the plot boring and uninspired.
Even if I didn't read the first few books in the series, I grew to like the characters from my introduction to them in the first book of the Immortals, and it was to my disappointment that they didn't make an appearance in this one.
I also did not like the fact that Daine spends so much of her time interacting with animals.
I prefer human interactions, and this book was lacking in that.
Daine, who owes a debt of gratitude to these wolves for having cared for her once she escaped her village, can't say no to their request, and along with her wizardly teacher, the powerful mage Numair Salmalín, she journeys to Fief Dunlath, the area known by the wolves as Long Lake.
With the help of a whole network of animal friends, Daine sketches out a plan of attack that will show the nobles of Fief Dunlath what happens when you mess with the wildlife.
Daine is still a bit childish for me at times which is why this is 4 instead of 5 stars. Besides that small issue I loved everything about this!! I loved all the new animals and immortals that were involved in this story and how much Daine learned about her own powers. I also totally ship Numaire and Daine together. I don't care what you say, you can't convince me otherwise. I WILL GO DOWN WITH THIS SHIP THEY ARE MEANT TO BE!
Oh my god.
I don't have words to explain how I feel right now.
It dosen't take long for the story to shift in shape.
There is no lingering and much rememberence on the first book to get annoyed with.
And it dosen't take long chapters for you to be intrigued.
It made me feel warm and longing after, and mind you not many books makes me feel this way.
This book reminded me of this particular animation which I LOVE.
[image error] They make ths most wonderful animation for all generation.
It's thoughtful and warning in a way.
While there have been some very good conversations about the ‘easiness’ Daine experiences in growing her magic, I would argue that the simplicity of the world extends well past just Daine’s magic.
They offer a mirror for Daine to expand her own consequence and I would rather see the limits of her consequence, to better understand Daine’s place in the world.
(And I know that Pierce would have us believe that Daine is inherently good, but a) that is the easy way out, and b) Pierce DIRECTLY CONTRADICTS IT IN THIS TEXT—that all things are not built for good or evil but for a unique purpose that runs contrary to other living things.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/When the Wolf pack, led by Brokefang, ask Daine, the only wild magician, to help them stop the humans from ruining their territory, she and Numair go to their aid.
However, they find something sinister going on a Long Lake as they find that the nobles are trying to usurp the throne from King Jonathan and Queen Thayet.
In Wolf-Speaker we are introduced to both new and existing characters but my favourite is defiantly Kitten as she has so much character and is really sweet.
I would recommend Wolf-Speaker to anyone who likes any of Tamora Pierce’s books.
If you guys love animals this is definitely a series you should read! One quote that really stood out to me:"It seemed as if, ever since she had come here, someone was telling her that because she didn't like a creature's looks, it didn't mean that creature was bad."Such an important message of tolerance vs. racism – something that Donald Trump and some Americans need to hear.
There's nothing I can say that will adequately express how I feel about these books and I'm not even going to try. Besides, the fact that I read them all repeatedly (I quit counting after the 10th time) is the highest form of praise I can give anyway. Daine, Numair, and the others are friends as dear to me as any in this world.
This is what I think people think of the seventh Harry Potter (which I love): there is TOO MUCH CAMPING.
The rebellion should be interesting, but instead the characters spend too much time apart, and - I'm repeating myself here, but it still applies - the animals aren't as interesting as companions as the people are.
Also, I thought I remembered the Dunlath mess being connected to Delia of Eldorne; it isn't.
This is my least favorite Daine book, hands down.
Though that does bring us back to the previous generation of characters being more compelling than Daine's story itself, which isn't ideal.
This series is getting more intriguing with each part. I specially enjoyed this second part because of the development in Daine's character. The way she used her wild magic for the good of everyone and the way she became one with different animals was the best part. Knowing this many animals and their minds and that they can become friendly with other animals too was heartwarming. So this novel was literally heartwarming and i loved being with all these animals. I cannot express this feeling in more words. Need to complete reading this series soon.
The fun thing about rereading books that you loved when you were younger is that it reminds you how much you used to love them (I'm not sure that sentence makes sense, but let's go with it). This book could have been tailor-made for adolescent-me. I loved Julie of the Wolves, and the idea of JOINING A WOLF PACK AND USING MAGIC POWERS TO TALK TO THEM sounded like the greatest thing in the world. I also really enjoy some of the side characters we meet in this book.
This text in the series definitely has the feeling as a bridge - bridging Daine's introduction to Tortall to her future position in Tortallan society, bridging the drama with Carthak, as well as bridging Daine's experience and development of her own magic. While its not my favorite of the quartet, I really do love this book - including the whole wolf pack, the castle cats, Tkaa, and the real introduction of Kitten. I also like Maura as a sort of foil to Daine.
This was fun but I didn't enjoy the way Daine's powers sorta exploded during this book. Not as good as book one but a good entry.
I do like how morality is treated in this one.
And I like Maura.
But I almost feel like this one has too many convenient allies.
I do like Tkaa and Kitten, but they don't really carry a book.
I do continue to like Daine and Numair's dynamic.
(view spoiler)[Which goes some way to explaining why they sort of work for me as a couple?
I don't know.
We'll see in books 3 and 4.
(hide spoiler)]I don't know.
Mostly this feels like a book where Daine learned to shape-shift, because she's going to need to.
Daine is growing in her confidence and the gods of the People, animals, are becoming even more involved in her life.
One lesson is about respect for the natural world in a way that goes above and beyond even the respect encouraged in the other stories about Daine.
The other lesson is about prejudice, not too surprising from an author with such against the grain strong female characters, but she does show it particularly well and it makes her entire world that much more dimensional.(This is the second book of The Immortals quartet, a Tortall series.)

I didn't think it was possible, but I love this series even more every time I read it.
I THOUGHT I WAS READING A FABLE, SOMEHOW. IT'S QUITE AWESOME. Full review, soon!
I did like the squirrel and Mora, Mora was only 10 years old and she was wiser than Daine, I thought Daine was more winey in this book than the first one, I liked when the Basilisk told Daine that the wolves don't ask for help and she didn't realize why the wolves did ask for help, it wasn't just.
At first I didn't really think much of the Basilisk but thank God I was wrong to mistrust him.
I wish that Cloud would've been more developed in this book but she was more of an after thought.
I think my reread of this series has been garnering 5 star ratings because they're just...
They're fun but not complicated, layered but not long.
I've read them before so I have an idea of what's coming, but it was long enough ago that there are still surprises.I'd misremembered how soon Daine learns to do different things with her powers, and completely forgotten some things about the immortals.
So I was right to think I was due for a reread, and I enjoyed it more than I remembered.
Daine being so determined and spunky but not knowing everything yet is fun.
This is a great fantasy series for middle grade readers.
In this book, the main character Daine goes through new challenges to help her animal friends.
And she learns to put aside her own prejudices and frustrations along the way.
She’s getting to be very powerful.
If she gets any more powers, I don’t know if young readers will be able to relate to her any more.We do learn more about her mysterious father.
But the first book was a bit better.#popsugar challenge 2018: A book you borrowed or that was given to you as a gift.
(Gotta love library books)
3.75 stars because I'm feeling pickyAlthough it was pretty awesome to see Daine handle everything on her own, I really did miss the presence of more humans (specifically Numair and Alanna). The Wolf pack was badass though, loved them. Loved all the different variety of animal voices too. Tkaa's character was pretty awesome as well. Another fun read :)
3.5*
Sure, this is nowhere near the worst I've ever read--I doubt it would get on a top 100 worst list--but this book is pretty darn dull and contains some of the most annoying tropes.First off, our story's premise is weak and feels very "sequel"-ish.
Now we have a billion wolves (including cute pups that is sure to make all the little girl that are reading this squeal and run to their parents begging for a puppy), a squirrel (which has to be THE most annoying anthropomorphized animal, in my book), a basilisk, and, of course, our dragon, which is now called "Kitten".
While I was a little confused at the beginning as to the timeline and the gap between the end of the previous novel and the start of this one it was quickly cleared up and the story utterly captivated me.It was really clear that Tamora Pierce had done her research into wolves and pack dynamics for this novel and it was great to read about the way the wolves were portrayed as really just brilliant all-around characters.
(hide spoiler)]The final battle of the novel was brilliantly done, and the image of (view spoiler)[Yolane being herded back to the castle by a pack of wolves like a naughty child (hide spoiler)] is amazing.
