https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/817357.Yendi
He's fighting on multiple fronts, all the while trying to stay on top of Dragarean politics.This book has a lot of things going on and the action never stops.
In the midst of all this mess though, Vlad is still an engaging, funny storyteller, and I can listen to him talk all day long.Like Jhereg, this book is out of order, but unlike Jhereg, it's near the beginning of Vlad's tale.
He's still got that optimistic (but also realistic) outlook on life and his place in the world about him that I like.
There are places where I thought he took it a little too far, and the heavy voice definitely takes a bit to get used to, but his odd writing style is part of what makes the story so interesting.Brust also throws you in the deep end of this world to either sink or swim, explaining precisely nothing about the dozens of references he makes throughout the story.
It’s definitely a fantasy world but it’s presented with a mystery-driven plot and overlay of humor that reads more like an urban fantasy.

It's what turns any would be tragedy into high comedy.One thing Steven Brust does fantastic in both novels is the near breakneck speed he can turn any desperate situation into a natural tragedy following from unintended consequences of character's actions.(view spoiler)[In the first book, neither Vlad nor us knew what his casting of the second dragon invitation would do.
So yes, I say again, thank god for revivication and the kindness of fucking powerful dragon hosts at Castle Black.
(hide spoiler)]I really liked the novel's twisty plot turns, the love story, and the quick battles for supremacy.
3.5 stars.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. The Jhereg series is one of those series that I love to come back too whenever I am in the mood for a good, fun read. This is the second installment and I think it was as good as the first one. I love the world that Brust has created and the main character (Vlad Taltos) is great. I highly recommend this series to everyone who has not tried it yet.
Now I knew, I know, going into these books that they are readable and fun, but they are also fairly light weight.
Yendi is too light weight, however.
Sure we get to see the coming together of Cawti and Vlad, but it didn't come anywhere near satisfying me this time, and it felt way too rushed.
Sure there was lots of intrigue, but the intrigue was way too forced, and if I had been faced with just one more Vlad-speaking-his-thoughts-aloud-while-his-friends-listen-attentively figuring it out scenes I would have screamed my house awake.Some things are better left alone.
Having read Jhereg about a million times the year I was thirteen, I adored their relationship as a married couple, which at the time (I had only just discovered adult fantasy literature) was so rare in stories.
One more reason not to read in internal chronological order if it's your first time with the series.I do like the development of Vlad's relationship with Morrolan, Sethra, and Aliera.
(hide spoiler)] The one thing I think a new reader to the series might benefit from by starting with Dragon is seeing Vlad's relationship with those three develop.
Yendi is the 2nd installment in the Vlad Taltos series, and is actually a prequel to the first book.
It establishes some background; how Vlad met Cawti (she tried to kill him) and how he built up his Jhereg territory.
There is also the obligatory political problem, which in this case was extremely convoluted.I do enjoy these books...they are fast paced, and have action.
They aren't too long or convoluted.They are a great relaxing read.
The territory war/plotline was interesting.
The love story didn't really seem very genuine...It came off more like Vlad is just a horndog...and the political scheming?
Didn't grab me like the first book did. I still like Brust's style quite a bit, he's building up an interesting world and some extremely fun characters. But I have to admit I was lost reading this one. I don't think I can even explain what a Yendi is, and I just read a book entitled "Yendi." The plot seemed to be mostly a sequence of confusing skirmishes plus a love story that kinda didn't make sense. Maybe it'll clear up whenever I get around to book 3.
It's the second book in Brust's Vlad Taltos series, which I'm going to take a stab at describing as Sherlock Holmes-esque stories featuring gangsters and set in a fantasy world with magic and fantasy races and such.
The means to accomplish the latter becomes clear when Vlad is attacked by a string of assassins, the first of which being a pair that includes the human Cawti--which readers of the first book will remember as Vlad's eventual wife.
Vlad is noticeably shaken at several points by the attempts on his life, which is nice; too often, death becomes something blaze in fantasy, and to take a moment to step back humanizes Vlad quite a bit.
But its not a big deal here because, for the most part, its a narrowed scope plot that never threatens to get too into the way of what is established in the first book.I had issues with two slightly major things in this book: the love story and the villains plot.
The ultimate villain's plot in this novel is ridiculously convoluted.
I'm not worried about the romantic side in future books but, hopefully, major plot revelations are more developed in the future.I'll be looking to this series in the future whenever I need a shorter fantasy fix.
As such, we're almost completely uninvolved in Dragon house politics, because they're unrelated to Vlad and mostly unseen by him.
And yet somehow, the plot turns on events from millenia ago, complex Dragon politics, planned invasions of the Easterners, and lifespans in which something that happened one or two human generations ago were practically yesterday.This is not a criticism.
Burst does actually make us care, not because he gives us any reason to care about any of these things, but because we care about how they would impact Vlad.
I couldn't decide on 3 or 4 stars for this book.
I knew going into it that it was set chronologically before the first book, but I still didn't like it.
I found the start of Vlad's idiosyncrasies a little disappointing.
The book also depicts Cawti's entrance into Vlad's live and their subsequent romance.
While I believed the love between them in the first book, I found the start of it unlikely.
All in all it was a fun book to read, and as a part of the series so far it's not bad, but even in my early stages of reading the series, it's not the best.
Oddly, the second book in the series is set before the first, which becomes a tradition for Brust's "Vlad Taltos" novels.
like; the action is bare bones, and even the dialogue tends to be extremely simple.
The difference is that Brust can pull it off because his novels are usually 200 pages or less (I haven't read the other three he wrote), so you don't really FEEL how empty they are -- they're fun pulp set in a sci-fantasy world, and that's all they need to be.
It's also fun to see him interact with characters like Morrolan and Aliera before they really trusted each other as much as they do in the present time.The only thing that held this book back was the nature of the introduction of Cawti and her relationship with Vlad.
I LOVED Cawti in book 1 and was so excited to see the beginning of their relationship, but it was SO rushed It felt....fake, honestly, which is so different from high-quality writing that I've already begun to take for granted from Brust.So, yeah.
Still - a really fun read, and I plan to continue with Vlad books promptly.
The second Vlad book, which is actually a prequel to the first one, kind of falls on the floor and goes *klunk*.
We're thrown into a territory war between Vlad, now a small-time underworld boss, and his rival.
After Brust builds up all this tension with the escalation of the mob war, he digresses into scene after scene of flat exposition between Vlad and his friends, all the while making lame excuses as to why Vlad's territory isn't going up in flames while he's sitting down to tea in Morrollan's castle.Fortunately, the future books are better.
-Fantasía cocinada con todos los ingredientes de la novela negra más clásica.- Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. Vlad Taltos, dedicado a los negocios ilegales en la ciudad de Adrilankha, capital del imperio dragaerano, se ha hecho recientemente con el control de un pequeño territorio, pero parece que su dominio sobre el mismo está siendo puesto a prueba. Segundo libro de la serie de Vlad Taltos pero anterior al primero en la línea de tiempo de la vida del protagonista.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
I love all the intrigue in Brust's books.
There's always some twist, something you just don't expect that makes the whole plot click in place and it's awesome.
Though it makes me a bit sad that Vlad still doesn't trust his Dragaeran friends - Morrolan, Aliera, Kiera, Sethra, Kragar...
I think that Vlad's hate of the Dragaerans in general sometimes clouds his judgment.
Also, I never really saw the love between Vlad and Cawti.
It never clicked for me, this part of the plot.
I always considered Cawti a cold fish, to be perfectly honest.
But other than that, it's an excellent book!
I didn't like this (very short) second book as well as Jhereg. I enjoyed watching Vlad establish and defend his territory - he's a nice sort of underworld boss - but I wasn't terribly interested in the greater political plot explored in the second half of the book.The scheming and action scenes are well-written and believable. The romantic scenes, not so much. I was not impressed by the instant attraction between Vlad and the woman who tried to kill him.Still, there was enough good stuff here for me to continue with the series.
these books are weird. just when my frustration with certain fantasy cliches - especially the "all races = one race = white" equation - threatens to reach its boiling point, brust will bust out with a completely unexpected, completely awesome twist or comment or insight. i hope he starts building more on these unexpected turns in later books...
Really enjoying these. It was a bit confusing at first as it was before the first book, but it is all good. There were a lot of moments that made me laugh
Pacy, idiosyncratic, wry.
http://oyceter.livejournal.com/571335...
2nd book in, and really enjoying it. Interesting mix of genres. It seems to know exactly what it is though, and embraces it. Lots of fantasy goodness, great snark, and crime/mystery/?
Again the adventurs of vlad taltos are wonderful, at least for me, due to to the way the books are narraited. they are told from the main characters point of view and I like the way he thinks.
I don't want to give away any spoilers here, but let's just say something major goes down in the main character's life, and it gets like a 2 paragraph mention (in terms of the how's, why's, emotions, etc.) in a book where Vlad is known to go on for quite a bit longer than necessary on certain topics.As a story, this one was great.
So the book doesn't attempt to outsmart you, like a lot of detective stories where you say "Oh, that all totally makes sense now!" when you get to the truth.
The second book in the Vlad Taltos series takes us back before the events of Jhereg, to his early days, when he first began expanding his role from merely assassin to boss of an area.
But it's not good for anyone that their turf war captures the attention of the Empress -- or is it?As with the first book in this series, there's an intricately plotted mystery at the center of the story.
That's also when it was discovered that there was more to the turf war than one Jhereg's desire to move in on another's territory.
YendiI was midly disappointed by Yendi, the second book in The Vlad Taltos series.
A quarter or even half the book felt like Brust (the author) was merely listing a series of action instead of telling a story.
He order a couple of Vlad’s men killed, disturb a couple of our hero side activities, like it’s betting business, and most naturally, he tried to send Vlad back to his grave (and he actually survived once, but thankfully, revification exist).
And just like in Jhereg, he’ll seek a helping hand from the Dragon Lord Morrolan and his niece Aliera.
