https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104379.That_Summer
I am certain That Summer isn’t one of Ms. Sarah Dessen’s finest but I also know that this is one of her more realistic stories and despite the simplicity of the plot and the plainness of the narration, it was a relatable read.
Thankfully, the entire story took less than 200 pages to finish and I have to admit, the last few pages were beautiful.
Thank you so much to my awesome buddy, Neil (or bleed) for gifting me the book.
I decided to not finish this book because of too many reasons I could not avoid.First- The storyline was boring.Second- The characters were boring.
Very repetitive.Fourth- I found no story progression and only 80 pages in I was just skimming through the pages hoping it would end soon.You can definitely tell this was Sarah's first book, because I have really liked all her other books and this one just put me to sleep, as sad as I am to say that.
I do no recommend this book unless you need something to make you fall asleep, then this book is for you!
On the surface, Sarah’s language prowess kept me riveted to the pages; I actually did, to some extent, care about Haven, her sister Ashley, and Ashley’s ex-boyfriend Sumner as well as other important side characters such as Ashley’s fiancé, their mother, and Lydia Catrell.
Unless her sister's coming marriage (only a side story) counts?I've noticed that Sarah Dessen’s books always have an event that happens which changes the main character’s worldview.
It seemed like Haven just heard another side to the story of Ashley’s breakup with her previous boyfriend which altered the way she saw some things, but it didn’t come off as something to write an entire book about.
There wasn't really anything in particular that I disliked about this book (other than the "retarded children" phrasing), but the story itself was so brief that it felt like it just skimmed the surface of what it could've been.
The story's mostly about her looking to the past at a moment when everything was perfect, but then realizing maybe it wasn't exactly what she thought.
Her older sister is getting married and her dad just got married, so there are a lot of changes happening...
And I still got a strong sense of Haven's character even though there wasn't a ton that happened in the story.
I've tried reading books by this author in the past.
That Summer was a short, fast-paced YA Romance told over the course of a summer holiday and following a fifteen year old girl called Haven.
She witnesses family drama such as her Dad re-marrying to a TV weather reporter and her sister Ashley getting into strops about her wedding preparations.
It isn't until a guy called Sumner arrives back in town and connects with Haven.
Only issue is that he is Ashley's ex-boyfriend.
I didn't like Haven as a character, she was quite stroppy and bratty and reminded me of someone I used to know.
I won't be re-reading.
who, would like this book???? bored, people who want to listen to boring stuff? okay, i know a lot (A LOT!) of people who enjoyed this book but, it doesn't speak at, all to me. this is not my style of book, and type. sorry.
What happened with this book! The beginning, middle, and end were exactly the same, NOTHING HAPPENED. It was soooo boring, but I forced myself to finish it to guarantee no suprises were coming (nope). The big drama on what happened when Sumner and Ashley was nothing. I was so disappointed in Sarah Dessen. I'm glad this wasn't the first book of hers I read, or else it would be the last.
Many of my friends on Goodreads didn't like this book, and it's because they just don't get it.
I can connect with Haven completely and I felt her pain about all of the issues in her life.
This book, if you can relate, was so sad and made me cry.
It was just really painful for some people who can relate.
I'm not going to go into detail, but if you think you might like it then read a little, if you don't start to connect, then dump it.
It meant something to me, and it helped me.
I'll never forget what  That Summer  meant to me.
She just flails around for most of the book before acting like a total ass to her mother and sister and then gets woken up to the fact that people are not what they appear to be.
but we see that out of the two of them Ashley is upset about what happened with her family and that she does blame their father for her parents marriage ending.
Same thing when Ashley and Haven finally have a big talk (not really) at the end and then we are supposed to think of "Sisters".
What a crazy book. I'm so regretting picking this up.  That Summer  wasn’t what I expected at all. The only character I really got to know was the protagonist, Haven, and I didn’t like her very much. I felt bad for her in the circumstances she was in, but there was something about her that just rubbed me the wrong way. I was also disappointed in the ending. I felt like I had waited for something very anti-climactic and didn’t seem true to the characters portrayed in the book. It was extremely bo
The only character I really got to know was the protagonist, Haven, and I didn’t like her very much.
I felt like I had waited for something very anti-climactic and didn’t seem true to the characters portrayed in the book.
(READ AT YOUR OWN RISK) (view spoiler)[Ashley finds Haven in the woods while it's raining and tells her the true reason she broke up with Sumner was because he cheated, as if it were obvious.
The book is mainly about chaotic planning for Ashley's wedding, and what happens to everyone around Haven, not Haven herself.
All in all, I didn't like the book.
Bow.*sigh*p.s. The book cover was pretty but looks can be deceiving.
Fear not, I am not deterred from reading Sarah's other books and enough people have told me this book is one of their least favorites that I feel confident that I'll like her other books. Being so short, this one was a quick read but it felt like almost nothing happened? Also, so much angst.
First time I've read Sarah Dessen novel and definitely will never be the last.
“It’s funny how one summer can change everything.”   I know, I know, you might think that this is crazy. PINKY RATED SARAH DESSEN'S BOOK 2 OUT OF 5 STARS. THE WORLD IS GONNA END, THIS IS CRAZY TALK! I find it hard to believe myself, all the Sarah Dessen books I read so far are so interesting and I love every single one of them, except this one. I know some people loved this book but I didn't enjoy it that much.  “Some things you don't have to tell. Some things, between sisters, are understood.
I find it hard to believe myself, all the Sarah Dessen books I read so far are so interesting and I love every single one of them, except this one.
Then, Sumner, one of Ashley's ex-boyfriends return into town and Hayden can't stop thinking about all the good memories from that summer.
Okay, you might be thinking that I am being super picky, but I LOVED most of Sarah Dessen's books.
P.S: As you all know, I am on a reading marathon for Sarah Dessen,s books but I am going to take a small break.
The fact that this book is only 200 pages definitely shows, because compared to Sarah's other books, not a whole lot really happens. However, I really liked it and the message behind it. If you are new to Dessen, don't start with this one. It is worth a read, though!
was this sarah dessen's first book? this better have been sarah dessen's first book. there's no excuse otherwise.this was like...the worst. but still sarah dessen. so not the worst?who knows. the reread continues.
15-year-old Haven has always thought of the past with fond memories.
With Haven's father getting remarried and her sister, Ashley's marriage looming in the distant future, something snaps in Haven and she feels like she can't go on.
It's only when an unexpected person, Ashley's old boyfriend, Sumner pops back into her life, does she start to think that maybe things will go back to the way they were all those years ago.
I really liked how Haven never saw Sumner as anything more then a friend.
It was also a relationship book, between Haven and her sister, Ashley.
Rating: 3 starsThis was such a sweet book. It was Sarah Dessen's first novel, and you can see how much she's matured and grown over the years. This is the only book she's written where the girl doesn't get a guy, and also the youngest mc at fifteen. Instead, That Summer centered around sisterly love, and family relationships, something else Dessen is well known for. I really enjoyed this story, and all the little things that went into it.
This was a cute short read about summer and about change. I liked the emphasis more on sisterhood than about boys and romance. Ashley did get on my nerves in the beginning but she grew on me.
I am glad to know per another reader's review that this was Sarah Dessen's first book.
I've heard so much about her as a YA author so my hopes were sky high, but I didn't feel like "That Summer" delivered to expectation.
I kept feeling like Sumner was going to end up back with Ashley, and that the reason they'd broken up was something intensely dramatic.
I didn't know until later that the book was written in 1996 but it was amazing to read it and feel like a year I was in middle school now reads as so dated.
3.5/5 While I wasn't super impressed by this book, I still enjoyed it for the most part and it was a quick and easy read. If you're a Sarah Dessen fan you'll probably enjoy this one.
For example, when her sister gets married, I’ve never had a sister but my aunt got married and I was really close to her just like Haven and her sister.
Mac McPhail, Haven’s father, is a sports anchor on channel five who recently got married to the weather women, which Haven refers to her as the “weather pet”, Lorna Queen.
It’s the summer that changes Haven’s life forever.I really wouldn’t call anybody a hero in this book but if I had to choose one it would be Sumner.
Sumner is the hero in this book because he helps Haven out in a lot of ways.
There are a lot of plotlines in this book.
But that story got swallowed up by the bazillion other stories Dessen wanted to incorporate, thus ensuring that not a single one of these plots went anywhere.Haven's interactions with others is what makes up the grand portion of this book, but her interactions with each individual person are actually very few.
She only sees Sumner a handful of times.
Definitely not Dessen's best, so don't read it unless you're a hardcore Sarah Dessen fan or a person who often enjoys introspective books that are heavy on adolescent moping, light on plot.
That Summer was okay. There were a few things I liked, but overall the story seemed pointless. I was somewhat bored throughout the entire story, so I'm glad it was a shorter read. The book was written well, but I didn't care for any of the characters.
I think the speaker had a nice drawl for it; but how she pronounced the 'r''s was very Aussie.
I was feeling disturbed 80% of the time, which incapsulates that stage we all go through at some point in our teen lives (I think there was a quote about how Haven finally felt her inner self grow into her extremely tall body, which I relate so  freaking  much to).
I think I liked it more as an audiobook, I'm also currently reading (in paper) 
The things I liked about this book was that it wasn't about a teenage girl finding the cutest boy, the bestest friends or the cutest clothes.
It was about a pivotal time in a teenage girls life where everything is changing around her and is totally out of her control.
Divorces, babies, marriages, growth spurts, moving, these are all things that when you're a teenager, you have nothing to say about and that can be frustrating.
So then why not give this book 5 stars since it was well written and about something most of us can relate to if can remember what it was like to be a teen?
And it was a great story.Haven is dealing with a lot.
I, myself, don't have a period where everything seemed to change for me, but it was interesting to read about it for someone who did.Haven is a misunderstood character in the book.
But things don't seem to be as great as she thought they were.It was a good story.
No romance, no relationship troubles, but instead a story telling about the struggles of just growing up.
It is a great book worth reading, just don't read it if you are looking for a romance.

I've only read two of Sarah Dessen's other books so I can't really rank That Summer but it wasn't my favorite of the her books I've read.
I did really like That Summer though.
It was a little slow at first but it's such a quick, fun read.
I couldn't really find Haven relatable at this point in my life because she's like 6 years younger than I am but if I had read this book when I was 15-17, I probably would have liked it a lot more.Overall, I did enjoy That Summer but it wasn't my favorite Dessen book.
Haven longs for the days when things were easy; back when she was close to her sister and her parents still loved each other and Sumner is the only one who takes the time to let her vent.This isn't a romance instead it explores Haven's feelings, all of the pain, the longing and the new reality that she must face and it doesn't flinch away from it.
Sumner is the catalyst for a change within Haven and ultimately helps her heal simply by listening and then by being imperfect.I thought this was a very good book.
This book has all the makings of a good YA novel.
It is about a 15 year old struggling with a few real like things that really affect 15 year olds.
Haven is a young girl who is dealing with her parents getting divorced and her father getting re-married.
Ashley is Haven’s sister who is engaged to be married and Haven doesn’t like her fiance.
In the end she realizes something very important, the past is the past (usually for good reason) the future is not always all bad and sometimes you have to let the past be just that, the past and move forward and make new memories.
