https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2113260.Shades_of_Grey
Best of all, this story has an element of what I think of as divine ridiculousness: a delightful, subtle, strangeness that is funny while still touching on some underlying truth.In fantasy, we have the ability to write about anything.
You read a book with hundred foot tall giants, and you think, "Wow. That's awesome!" Then you go out to write something even cooler: A book with 200 foot tall giants who can fly and breathe fire.But bigger isn't always better.
Except, perhaps, that it’s probably the best book I’ve read in a year or so.
A happy accident...
my book club was reading "50 Shades of Gray," and it just so happens that I missed the gathering (sorry, gals!) where this was chosen.
I'm so very happy I did.
I completely expected to despise the reading experience as it's a dystopian read.
I suspect his plentiful humor played largely into making the experience a pleasant one.
Most dystopian books are missing humor.
I suspect if humor was a common thread in this genre, though, I might have another opinion on it.Maybe all you "50 Shades of Gray" readers were reading the wrong book.
the world of Shades of Grey is a nightmarish dystopia: a ruthless totalitarian regime that destroys all individualistic spirit, all creativity and ambiguity and questioning of authority; a monstrous government that divides its citizens into color-stratified class/caste systems that is based upon the inherent physical deficiencies of its populace; a place with no love and where death is the end result for the underdog and misfit.sounds pretty bleak, right?
the love of his life is mean Jane - a Grey, the lowest caste - a rebel with a cause who does not hesitate to punish him drastically and physically whenever he gets in her way.the writing itself is splendid.
Seriously.
Trust me, I've read everything he's written, and despite my usual sense of trepidation when faced with a new tome, I am inevitably swept completely away to the point of being irked when something silly like dinner or the need for sleep interferes with my reading.
Fforde's years in the film industry have clearly served him well--I can't exactly work out what his writing process must be like to enable him to fully, convincingly create worlds that function completely by their own set of norms, but I hope he can keep it up.
Note to my mother: NOT THE SAME SHADES OF GREY!
Although Russet is already half-engaged to a cold fish back at home, he promptly falls in love with Grey--despite that she threatens to break his jaw or leg and likes to feed him to carnivorous plants whenever convenient.The bildungsroman element in the book comes to a head near the end, with a quest and a test that lead to more questions than they answer.There is one All-Important Question that will be answered by the end of the book:Where have all the spoons gone?This novel was a slow read at first--Fforde takes time to craft his universes but tends to set his readers down in the middle of things at the beginning, so it took a bit to soak up enough information before the Colortocracy organization made sense.
I am continually impressed by Fforde's imagination, writing and his supreme talent for incorporating both well known and obscure references to literature and pop culture.With this novel, Fforde begins a new series based in a future world that arose from the ashes of ours and in which every person's status in society is based on the portion of color spectrum that they can see.
Throw in such off the wall details like "giant swan attacks", a Rule against using the number between 72 and 74 and how ownership of a spoon is a status symbol.
Mystery as we’re never told by the author what happened to the world, just that the characters live in a place post-Epiphany, as they call it.
(Members in each strata must marry at least within their class, though would love to marry above, provided the colours are not complementary.) Regardless, he remains fascinated with Jane, and becomes involved with activities in the town.
The whole time, the author builds the mystery and some dread, as odd happenings occur, and questions are actively discouraged.
There are bad things happening in the town and in the society, and Jasper Fforde takes much of the almost 400-page story to explain, and then the book ends.
I've been on a dystopian kick over the last several months, and it was interesting to read this one so soon after Brave New World; Jasper Fforde offers up some similar ideas but approaches the concept of a totalitarian future society from the same skewed perspective he brought to the Thursday Next series.
It takes Fforde a long time to set up his world, slowly revealing how the different colors people see influences their standing in society and the way the government functions as a whole.
By the end, I just wanted to jump to the next book!Initial thoughts:1.
Jasper Fforde creates an imaginative, interesting, and complex dystopia society where what you see determines who you are.
I loved the rules, and the process in which Fforde guides you through this odd futuristic society.
Pacing is slow throughout most of the book (until the end).
Fforde slowly unravels the secrets and corruption behind this society, and it's up to our main character Eddie to decide whether he will make the easy choice or the right one.3.
Seriously made this jump from a 3-4 star book to a 5 star for me.5.
This is Jasper Fforde.That means it's silly, not necessarily groundbreaking, but certainly satirical, dark-edged, referential and post-modern in ways that will only work if you're capable of tripping lightly along in his wake, enjoying the view and grinning wryly at the social commentary and broader themes he's sketching on the horizon for you.I always find the start of a new Fforde novel a bit like that first dive into cold water on a warm day.
Shades of Grey is an unexpectedly devastating book. Funny as hell, yes, but with a creeping sense of horrors lurking just beneath the surface, and when they strike, well, they were even more awful than I'd been anticipating.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Surely, there's more to writing a book than simply having a good idea?This book is based on a good idea, but it reads like it was written by a computer programme and commissioned by that bloke in Marketing who seems to have a new car every other month.It's so damn clunky.
Is Jasper Fforde now so successful that like, say, Stephen King, no-one dare tell him to hold on a minute?
Or has the BBC Newsroom's evil plot finally succeeded, and they've all been banished to Out-of-Date Camp?Of course, what do I know?
But I do know the difference between a Concept and a Book.Could the angry mob please now form an orderly queue...
Very amusing for me given that except for a few exceptions such as salads, I use spoons to eat everything not to be eaten with my hands, 2.
The story is both chilling and hilarious.The best science fiction has profound things to say about our current society, and this story certainly does it well.The society in this book might very well be the most creatively constructed dystopian society ever.
The language, the words used/created are perfect and they’re exactly how people from this society would phrase things.I’m very visually oriented and I found the premise of this book fascinating.
The first several chapters had so many lines in it that sounded just like something Adams would have written that you could have told me Fforde was Adams' pen-name and I would have fallen for it 100%.
I love the British sense of humor and wit, the dry cleverness always gets me and Fforde is quite good at slipping in absurd lines that sound normal at first and hit you a few seconds later.
How we got this way and why we live in such a backwards society are only part of the fun of reading this gem.
For the most part I felt as if I was reading pure nonsense.-Jane to a certain extent was interesting, but only because she had loads of secrets, and I wanted to know what she was up to.-There were quite a few hilarious scenes like the Apocryphal man at dinner, the hockeyball match, and the library scene.
-I was really pissed that Eddie condemned Imogen and Dorian to death at the end, they were the only truly likeable characters.All in all, I kind of liked it at times, but for the most part I was frustrated and annoyed.
Once their color perception is measured and documented by a representative from National Color, they are ready to begin serving the Collective in whatever capacity is determined by the test.
On the way to their new village they make a stop to see some sites in the nearest large town and while sight-seeing they stumble across an accident in a paint shop and Eddie's dad is called in to help.
This is just the beginning of a series of strange occurences that happen as Eddie and his dad make their way in a very strange town.
Fforde has created another most illogically logical, or logically illogical world, just like he did with his great Thursday Next series.
Mix in a bit of the dystopian worlds created by Lois Lowry in The Giver and Gathering Blue and you get this amazing book.
Fforde has done such an amazing job with this story where leaders and their citizens go about finding legal ways to break the laws in order to keep order that its almost believable that such a world could exist.
$1.99 on Amazon: March 29, 2018
The better you can see your specific color, the higher your social standing; the shorter the wavelength of your spectrum, the higher your social standing (following the rainbow prism of ROYGBIV, red is the low end and violet is the high end).
Sent to an outskirt town, he meets a violent, yet pretty Grey named Jane, stumbles into multiple conspiracies to beat the system and just tries to understand why no one is allowed to make more spoons.As one would expect from Fforde, the books is extremely humorous and off-the-wall.
But, it's not bleak; it's a laugh riot with tons of actual LOL moments.After all, punishments for stepping out of line could include conducting chair censuses or measuring the consistency of stools (Yech!).Our young hero has to deal with all this and more.
There are deadly swamps and man-eating plants/trees to deal with.
In addition, the wrath of his 'lady love', a lowly Grey is not be scoffed at either.Jasper Fforde writes brilliantly, and keeps you hanging on to every word - it's a bit of Brave New World on laughing gas.
It’s one of those stories that is very hard to describe in only a few sentences, with a basic premise that raises so many questions that you’re sort of forced to provide more details to potential readers so as not to leave them completely bewildered.Notice how I said “
If you’re at all familiar with Jasper Fforde’s work, it will come as no surprise to you to know that this book is likely going to be one of the strangest that you’ll encounter anytime soon.
“I-need-the-next-book-right-now-but-since-I-cannot-have-it-I’m-probably-going-to-die-from-these-feelings” cliffhangers.Brutal.
I have never been so glad that I bought a random book, ever.Edward Russett lives in a Dystopian future version of what was (possibly) our world.
People do not see in full color anymore, and the social hierarchy has been established based on what colors you can see.
Usually people only socialize within their own color, unless one is trying to marry up color.
Oh I have to wait until the next book comes out sometime next year?
What's going to happen in three years with the Leapback?
Why do they still have "Leapback" technology; wouldn't that have come from the Previous.I want more, dammit!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This book is pure Fforde: a maelstrom of crazy ideas that somehow coalesces into a coherent, if weird, world.
Any of these stories would have been wonderful to read on their own, but none of them are given the opportunity to flourish.
Instead of ending up with a unique synthesis of genres, we end up with a tangled mess.The book does have many good moments, and the ending satisfactorily ties up many of the story's mysteries.
Even when the muddled genres left me wondering what the plot was, Fforde's ideas kept me reading until the end.
“What did he just say?”  I think this was a constant reaction from me given that this is my first Fforde novel.
I even put it down a couple of times to get the details straight, EVEN SO: Shades Of Grey is worth it.
Eddie and his world are definitely quirky, different and funny!
On his way, he and his father meet a Grey camouflaged as a Purple as well as meet a certain Jane.
The world that Eddie lives in is one organized according to color.
So many things in this was different for me!
So many things in this was different for me!
I like this book, but it has had disappointingly low sales - although things are picking up now.
To a degree yes, if there's anything Fforde can do well (and he does so many things fantastically--I'd rank him equal to Terry Pratchett even) it's world building.
In a way I am torn, I want this book wrapped up because there's nothing worse than reading a fantastic book, getting super invested in the plot and the world, only to come across a "TO BE CONTINUED" with nothing resolved...but now I want more people to read this, so Fforde will be forced to finish.
If you’ve read Fforde before and found him lacking, you might still like this because it’s of a different flavor than what you’re used to.*It’s still pretty fucking funny, though.And now I really do hope that the internet isn’t lying to me when it says book two will be out next year because I really want it.**AND THE THIRD NURSERY CRIME BOOK, JASPER.
But considering the fact that the whole book is just that - world building - right upto the last 50 pages or so, I am not sure whether I like it or not.
Well, I don't want to properly review this book for you (because I am annoyed as this promised to be a 5 star book for me at the start).
Yep, this was that kind of a book for me.But one thing I felt by the end of this book was that it could have been so much better if this was published as a full length 1200 page novel instead of a trilogy.
Jasper Fforde has created a richly imagined future that revolves entirely around color, including social standing. Protagonist, Eddie Russett, is a Red: a fine, upstanding young man who wants the best for people. He is easy going and makes friends easily. When he and his father are sent to a remote town because of a mysterious death, Eddie means Jane, who is smart, knowledgeable, volatile, emotional, and ... threatens to kill him. The highlight of the book is their dynamic relationship, and trying to make sense out of strange events. 2.5 stars, rounded up.
I really liked this one - it was funny (not in an annoying slapstick way) and had a very interesting, well thought out world. However, this book just ends. There's no real resolution to anything. Clearly there was meant to be a follow on book that never happened. For that reason, my recommendation is to skip this book simply because the ending is so frustrating.
