https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6905534-raised-by-wolves
repeatedly until she suffered cracked ribs, seven contusions, four lacerations, a concussion and passed out for three days.She knows this is perfectly reasonable.Unfortunately, her adopted human-yet-married-to-pack mother packs up Bryn and her four month old twins, flips her husband the bird and moves her family as far away as she possibly can.Now this is where the story really picks up because Bryn starts to take matter into her own hands and I really enjoyed her journey from brainwashed pack member into someone who realizes that maybe it's not okay to beat someone who's not legally allowed to drink - just because she didn't follow every rule perfectly.So why wasn't this book a four star read?Well, for starters, Barnes needs to clean up her prose a little.
Why do I continue to punish myself with more than 400 pages of this crap?" Then I would remember how the sweet librarian I've become friends with at our library branch recommended the book and had been so sure I'd like it that she put it on hold for me herself.
Now, I'm all for a great fantasy book that creates a different kind of world.
While I know that none of those books represent reality, at no point while reading them did I roll my eyes and think, "Yeah, right."So, now I just have to figure out what to say to my nice librarian friend.
I am going to write this review in the style of this book.Not Good.Not Mine.I read a review of it and someone said it was “evocative”.
Also, a teen.Rage.Love.Mine.Bryn decides she will stop at nothing to get the answers to her questions about the new werewolf, Chase.Nothing.Stop.No.So, she embarks on a mission to do so.So, was that wearying?
Also, I found this book to be too full of werewolf politics.
If you are a werewolf fanatic, go out immediately and read it because you’ll probably love it.
It feels like Barnes put a lot of work into imagining how the werewolf pack would act, much like Briggs did for Mercy and Armstrong did for Women of the Otherworld.But it's like every other freakin' YA UF book out there.
And then, once again, we have yet another werewolf mythology where female werewolves are stupidly rare - this time, it's almost WORST because it's a painfully stupid pseudoscience explanation that makes no sense (something attacks female embryos but won't attack them if there is a twin male???).If you like werewolves, you could do worse, and at least it doesn't seem to have a royal d-bag, oppressive, abusive boyfriend.
She finally becomes the character that I saw the first sixty pages, and really takes charge of her life again-and on her own terms, too (again because of Ali forcing her to leave, that awesome chick) Really, it started feeling like an actual story since the first half didn't have much of a plot, or a real objective.
He has such an air of complexity about him that lingers when ever he's in a scene, but in the end I couldn't help but forgive his sins.Bryn is an outstanding character and while I'm still not sure about a few things pertaining to her gifts, I think she handled her new role with confidence and fairness.Her link with Chase was very unusaul and while it was very sweet I'm not sure I'd call it romance, or at least not for this book.
Simply put: this is the best werewolf YA I've read. (I stayed up to finish it in one blur.)
So, I think its safe to say that I was more than a little bit excited to get my hands on a copy of this book.Bryn is 15 years old and is quite literally being raised by a pack of wolves.
I loved that Barnes decided to write the book from Bryns perspective because we get a lot of insight of how she copes with pack life, how she manages to deal with the constant power struggles and feelings of inadequacy.
And it STILL gets 5 stars.This was a fantastic book and the best book that I've read in awhile-one of those that you don't put down until finished and where you've got this excited feeling in the middle of your chest.
Written in the first person by a 15-yr old, it has a maturity that is not common in today's youth, but nevertheless believable.While I consider it to be a self-contained story, by the end of the book, there are indications that it could be the 1st in a series.
Well, the main character's name is Bryn and she is 15 years old.
I never EVER use that word today.When the author had our 15 year old (Bryn) talk all like 'totally!' and 'Yeah!' she chose some words that were just downright eye-rolly.
Callum - Alpha Wolf - I really liked his character.
I had a hard time BELIEVING in the characters.LOLZ...
But I would be quite interested in knowing what a 15 year old teeny bopper thinks of this book.I guess I'm still on my search for an awesome girl werewolf story ;)-nothing to howl at -
It improved marginally about a third of the way in and got much better in the last third, but it felt like a lot of time to invest in something that really only evened out in the end.The main character's name made me want to kill puppies.
I alternated between book and audio and the physical reading of the character was slightly easier to bear.Anyway, the book does a lot of meandering around in circles, kind of like a legitimately rabid little woodland creature although nothing as intimidating as a wolf.
The book wanders in circles like a rabid chipmunk.
or werewolf, or whatever you want to call them, it's told from the perspective from a girl, a human girl.
I think being on the outside as Bryn was, was even more insightful than had it been from the pov of one of the wolf pack members.
As a character, I adored Bryn.
It was easy to become fully engrossed in this story and vested in its characters because of Bryn.
I love books that do that!This story is jammed pack with action...
with questions that Bryn wants answered.
I can't wait to read more about Bryn, and Devon..
For anyone who picks up Raised by Wolves and is tempted to put it down because of the slow-paced beginning, please keep reading!
Jennifer Lynn Barnes style reminds me of Rachel Vincent and her Shifter series, giving this YA book a harder, more adult edge than others in its genre.
After the first 100 pages the pace picks up, the plot unravels fast and Barnes dishes out some refreshingly original surprises, like Bryn's 'gift'.
A very cool addition to the genre.
I gave up after 10 pages. Until This day my hate for Ya werewolves stories never decreases. I just hate werewolves. Alot. This isn't even a review. This is just about one just significant thing about me. I goddamm hate werewolf books. Die! Die!
If you're a fan of paranormal stories then this is a must read book, one that I would highly recommend - I'd rate it right up there with Shiver, in fact I think I liked Raised by Wolves even more!Bryn is a fantastic character, as one of the only humans in the pack she is used to being physically weaker than everyone around her.
Alongside Devon, Lake looks out for Bryn and wants to help her dig into her past and solve the mystery of where both Bryn and Chase came from.The story is fast paced and has plenty of action and Jennifer Lynn Barnes has created an interesting world with an unusual twist to the werewolf mythology.
As a 21 year old who still (not so secretly) loves to read YA fiction I think that "Raised by Wolves" deserves a little more attention than some of the garbage out on the bookstore shelves right now.
**Reasons why I liked this book: Ms. Barnes (who happens to be close to my age)is very good at engaging the reader.
You instantly like Dev and I personally wanted her to end up with Dev but for everyone who reads the book you know what happens.
For starters, it takes forever and a day to know what Dev fully looks like and Bryn's own appearance is a rough estimate at best.
It is kind of like when you have a verse from a song in your head and you can't stop singing it.Fast forward to today,"Survive", "Kill", "Mine", (I could list about 20 words from the book that were repeated over and over again).Initially the one word sentences were creative.
After a period time, I felt like I was watching the cartoon show again.I haven't even started on the characters; the main character Bryn was as annoying as her one word sentences.
The entire first half of the book is about Bryn and what she wants and how she'll go about getting it regardless of the costs and risks to her people.
Now Bryn is 15 and finds the pack has been keeping a secret from her and while exploring meets Chase.
At first it took me a little bit to get into and I found the style of writing a bit confusing but about 100 pages in I fell in love with this book.
The story line was different from other werewolf books I've read.
I loved the main character Bryn instantly, she was headstrong and fearless.
It didn't effect how I felt about this book but enforced how much a fighter Bryn is.Overall, a great start to this series and I can't wait to read the next installment.
That was a mistake, as soon as I opened to page one, Jennifer Lyn Barnes took ahold of me and thrust me into her amazing Wolf world, and didn't let me go until I finished.Raised By Wolves is an in-depth book that not only introduced me to the snarky, won't take no for answer, strong willed, main character Bryn, but it captured me and brought into the amazing world of werewolves.
Jennifer's world building and writing style allowed me to get a bird's eye view of what it would be like to live with werewolves.The pack is made up of both wolf pack traditions and human family emotions.
Normally I would say the story and characters captivated me, but really it was the world building that captured my attention the most.
Probably Recommend:  MaybeBook Boyfriend: Callum & ChaseSUMMARY (50 words or less)I wanted to like this book.
If you ignore all the glaring plot holes, there is an undertow of potential that keeps you sucked in when you’re reaching for perches to get yourself out.
Too bad the plot holes are many.(I have a lot to say about this one.
See my full review for explanation)To see my full review and likeness of my book boyfriend, check out my blog post.http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...Audio ReviewEileen Stevens did a decent job of narrating.
All her male voices sounded pretty much the same.
Thankfully, her male voice is pretty good.

Sure, he was sweet and utterly convinced he was in love with Bryn, which was kind of cute.
Ending: A perfect fit for the book, and I loved how Bryn turned things around from the beginning, and the relation to the title.
Also, the pack bond allowing the reader (and Bryn) to see into the minds of other characters was a good idea.
Plus, the girl on the cover looks a lot like how I pictured Bryn.Overall: Really, really good.
If you like werewolves, complicated plots, strong characters, and the downfall of seriously creepy villains, this is the book for you.
It features a suspenseful plot (especially in the second half) and one really good message, but also includes, possibly by accident, a couple of disturbing messages.Bronwyn “Bryn” Clare is a human girl being raised by werewolves.
As a little girl, she and her parents were attacked by a feral werewolf, a “Rabid.” A pack of “good” werewolves burst into the house and rescued Bryn but were too late to save her parents.
Bryn is drawn to him and to the idea that he might be able to tell her more about the attack she survived all those years ago.At about the halfway point of the book, Bryn breaks pack law and is badly abused for it.
How, hot, cute, mesmerising, sweet, and loving is Callum then. I love this alpha, I loved him the moment his name popped up in this book, and I didnt believe for one second he betrayed Bryn. Chase? Yeah ok I love him too but come on, ITS CALLUM. Alpha, leader, hot callum! I loved this book definitley worth a full rating. Cant wait to read the next one! Dont underestimate this book, I did but wow, itll blow your mind!
Jennifer Lynn Barnes is one of my favourite writers. She knows how to combine humor, action, romance and the supernatural elements all into one book. Raised by Wolves is no different. It's not a book that I would delve into again but it's good for for a summer read.
In the context of the book, the relationship of Devon/Bryn/Chase has that tingling sensation of a 'love triangle'; but, it's more like 'dominance'.Oh, how I loath that word - but for a different reason you may be thinking.Now, just because this book is about domination, control, and leadership doesn't make it disgusting.
In fact (and people have every right to disagree with me - especially on a topic like this), I found it quite interesting that the author seemed to take werewolves and made them reflect real-life abusers, of the children, psychological, physical, whatever kind.Think about it.
Actual Rating: 2.5 stars
Эта книга не похожа на других представителей своего жанра, но ее персонажи чем-то напоминают мне персонажей другой серии Барнс - "Естественные".
(Прошу заметить что "Среди волков"издана за два года до "Естественных") Не смотря на схожесть персонажей, сюжет то разный и жанр тоже.
Преследования Брин Бешеным чем-то отдаленно напоминало одержимость маньяка главной героиней с первой книги "Естественных" Кэсси.
Но по закону жанра, должно случится что-то непредвиденное и начинается движение.
Однажды в подвале дома приемного отца Брин обнаруживает неконтролируемого парня по имени Чейз.
Ну а дальше по закону жанра ...
Жаль, что действительно стоящие книги у нас не в большой популярности.
I loved how the author told the story of Bryn, a human girl who was adopted by Callum, an Alpha wolf.
She was smart, protective and followed her heart (which is a character trait I look for in my heroines) I have to tell you that of all the men in the story I loved Callum the most and he really appealed to my heart.
I'd always read and assumed that to be Alpha you had to actually be a wolf and so it took a little time to accept that there could be alternatives.
The new idea added depth to the story and really made the book an amazing read.
And maybe I'd die at them too.”The story was mind blowingly fantastical :) I love a wolf story - it is by far my favorite, if it is UF wolves then *ding ding!
I would recommend this book & i will of course read more in the series (I am almost trying to rush this review so i can start the next book straight away!).
Similar themed books i would also recommend are - Shiver Dark Heart Forever Six Moon Summer Finding Sky(to read this review & more like it visit - http://bookprotagonist.blogspot.co.uk/)
