https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76679.Forward_the_Foundation
ENGLISH (Forward the Foundation) / ITALIANO "Though Isaac Asimov was a remarkable scientific divulgator, we cannot forget that one of the most fascinating cycles of ancient science fiction, i.e. the Foundation series, was born from his pen. Thanks to his work, Asimov can be rightly considered one of the earliest and most direct inspiring of Hari Seldon, the founder of Psichohistory, the science of human behavior reduced to mathematical equations" ENCYCLOPEDIA GALACTICA  Second prequel of the Fou
"Though Isaac Asimov was a remarkable scientific divulgator, we cannot forget that one of the most fascinating cycles of ancient science fiction, i.e. the Foundation series, was born from his pen.
"Benchè Isaac Asimov sia stato un notevole divulgatore scientifico, non si può dimenticare che uno dei cicli più affascinanti della fantascienza antica, il ciclo delle fondazioni, sia nato dalla sua penna.
Grazie alla sua opera, può essere di diritto annoverato tra i primi e più diretti ispiratori di Hari Seldon, il padre fondatore della psicostoria, la scienza del comportamento umano ridotto ad equazioni matematiche" ENCICLOPEDIA GALATTICA
Noe gustó, espero que el siguiente ofrezca algo mejor.
The critical reviews of this book are astounding."The breathtaking conclusion to the greatest science fiction epic of all time" is a strange thing to say about a book that serves as a second prequel...and not the last of the series either.
"The Foundation series has enthralled readers for more than 40 years, and this work is a dramatic climax." Again, for a prequel, and, frankly, it's not particularly dramatic."A moving valedictory performance..." which means...I'm not sure what...Little known fact: Asimov generated character names using a random number generator.
But it fits into the series, and the series may well be the "greatest science fiction epic of all time".
"Forward the Foundation", Asimov's last novel (written just before his death, published just after), suffers from all the problems of "Prelude to Foundation" only magnified tenfold.
Once again, Hari Seldon is transmogrified into an action hero to save the crisis of the day in a prequel to the older and vastly superior Foundation novels.
Unlike Prelude, however, there's not enough going on outside the short-term arc to make this one worthwhile.
Part of what makes the Foundation stories so great is their ability to both offer a good story and present the idea that the individual events pale in significance to the overarching history that Seldon has planned.
"Forward the Foundation" accomplishes neither.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Excellent book and another good installment to the Foundation series. Not quite up to the level of the original trilogy, but still an excellent read. Recommended!!!
Varies from not bad to pretty good.
It almost feels more like a trio of connected novellas than one cohesive novel, which is not necessarily a bad thing.
But for the most part, the sequences of events seem a little too convenient.
That said, the characters are pretty decent, and the female characters are significantly more capable and well-rounded than I'm used to seeing from these Great Old SF Masters, and indeed from some of Asimov's own older works.
Maybe I would have appreciated it more if I'd read the Foundation books in publication order instead of internal chronological order, but that's not how I approached it.
Entrambe queste operazioni, accidentalmente o volutamente, lo portano sempre a produrre delle storie eccellenti.Gli episodi di Fondazione anno zero (benché l'ordine cronologico sia molto importante, le quattro parti in cui il romanzo è diviso possono considerarsi autoconclusive in sé) sono tra le storie più intelligenti che Asimov abbia mai scritto, specialmente il primo e il secondo, che vedono il geniale matematico Hari Seldon alle prese con i problemi che si incontrano nella gestione di un impero di venticinque milioni di mondi -normale amministrazione, insomma.
Nel corso di queste avventure Seldon dà prova di un'astuzia e una scaltrezza di cui, basandomi sui miei ricordi di Preludio alla Fondazione, non l'avrei considerato capace.
I have forgotten most of what I had read of his books and in recent years I've been rereading.Forward the Foundation was written after my youthful fanship.
I think Asmiov's dialog style suits Daneel, being a robot.Hari Seldon, the developer of psycho-history, the basis of the Foundation series, is pretty much the same character as Elijah Baley, in the Robot series, and Golan Trevize in the Foundation sequels, and probably most of Asimov's leading characters in other novels.So, having denigrated the object of my early SF literary admiration, let me say that I haven't read anything of Asimov's that isn't pretty good.
This is the perfect book to go between the first prequel to Foundation (Prelude to Foundation) and Foundation itself!Of course, having read Foundation first (decades ago), it is difficult for me to look at this book in the same way a reader might who has not read Foundation first – I was constantly (and pleasantly) comparing the thought processes and younger life of the incomparable Hari Seldon in this book to the vision we are given of Seldon in Foundation, when he is established as an old and very wise demigod and thorough planner of human civilization for the next millennia.
Settimo ed ultimo capitolo della saga della Fondazione: capitolo, senza dubbio, inferiore ai precedenti, però comunque ha il suo perchè. Primo perchè chiude il cerchio, tutto viene spiegato, tutti i personaggi vengono caratterizzati per una chiara comprensione della storia. Secondo perchè appena si leggono i trafiletti tratti dall'"Enciclopedica Galattica" come si fa a non proseguire con la lettura. Terzo perchè lo stile di Asimov è ineguagliabile, ha una scrittura talmente delicata, accogliente e poetica che non si può non essere colpiti.
Let me start out by saying DO NOT READ THIS BEFORE THE ORIGINAL TRILOGY.
I say this as a person who read the original 3 foundation novels before anything else.
If I had not already read the original trilogy, Forward The Foundation would have spoiled everything for me!!!
This is a book that is clearly written as a prequel, that is meant to be read AFTER the foundation trilogy, not before.
If you wish to read chronologically, do so after having already read it in original publication order.
Not only does this volume tie up most of the remaining loose ends in the sporadic Foundation series, but by focusing on the latter half of Hari Seldon's life, it provides Asimov with a platform for expressing his own views on growing older.There is a very clear progression in Asimov's writing style over the years.
In the end, however, as played out in the book's final scene, Asimov's regrets as he approached the end of his life had less to do with what the future might have held than with the indelible past.
Not only did Asimov continue to improve on writing semi-realistically flawed characters, he also managed to start drawing this reader far more emotional perspectives than before (though I don't think he's really tried to do that before in this series, at least).Most importantly to me, this book finally tied up one of the loose ends that had been nagging me since  Second Foundation: that psychohistorians had somehow gone from a math that couldn't address individuals to a mental ability that only worked on individuals, even while they're math still couldn't venture there.
Still and all, though, this is a fascinating novel.There are a couple other books that link the Robot series with the Foundation series.
And, oh boy, what a link is revealed in this segment to the Robot series.There are three other main episodes, one focusing on Cleon himself; one is entitled "Dors Venabili"; the final part is "Wanda Seldon." Then, a very brief segment representing Hari Seldon's last moments.
He went from an academic teaching Chemistry (if memory serves) to a pretty skilled author.Anyhow, the work is not tightly pulled together, but it is fascinating in its character development, its place in the Foundation series, its linking of the Robot series to the Foundation series.
This is actually the second prequel to the Foundation Trilogy, and the last book Asimov wrote (see the Author's note in Prelude to Foundation for the chronology of the series vs.
when actually penned).As I read 'Prelude' first, and got accustomed to the later writing style of Asimov before getting to the Foundation Trilogy, it was easy for me to rejoin Hari, Dors, and Raych.
I felt the loss, and didn't want it to happen (especially Dors), but the additional emotion made it more enjoyable for me.
) el valor de las novelas de Isaac Asimov radica no en su prosa ni su narrativa sino en su trasfondo filosófico.Me parece que si su obra de ciencia ficción es tan reconocida, no es por el manejo de las palabras, sino por el manejo de los conceptos.
Mi punto es que Asimov, permanecerá siempre como uno de los grandes de la ciencia ficción, a pesar de tener una prosa y estilo que en terminos literarios y estéticos palidece si se compara la de otros autores.Para quienes leímos Fundación y en especial, Segunda Fundación resulta interesantísimo conocer no solamente qué pasó antes de las Fundaciones sino qué es lo que pensaba Hari Seldon y cómo se fueron materializando poco a poco y a pesar de tantos enemigos, las ideas del psicohistoriador.
I'm partly glad to be finished, since the stories tended to be somewhat repetitious and lacking in vivid characterization, but after all that Asimov did with the series and how he pulled it together with his other major science fiction novels, part of me wonders where he would have gone with it had he had more time to develop his ideas.
The series overall had a lot of repetition in theme, structure, and narrative (each book seemed to review much of what came before, which, while necessary, was somewhat annoying when reading the stories all as one), and I wished that Asimov had tried giving his readers the benefit of the doubt at some point.
I've always loved the clarity and humor of Asimov's science articles, but I've never been a fan of his fiction, and this book points up why.
Asimov never places you into the scene, and the reader is left watching from afar.Forward the Foundation is the second prequel to his famous Foundation series, and it was written shortly before his death.
It provides the finishing touches on the life of his fictional psychohistorian, Hari Seldon, and makes several revelations about certain characters, such as his wife Dors, that are only hinted at in the first.
Other places in the book excelled as well, but overall I was happy to get to the ending.I intend next to reread Foundation.
While Prelude To Foundation was filled with surprises, especially near the end, as is customary of the Foundation series and sort of a trend with Asimov, Forward has been rather linear, a straightforward narration of the decades in Seldon and Psychohistory.
Although this was written as the very last book of the series, I wanted to read and know how Seldon the scientist ends his career as the new Foundation begins, before I proceeded with the interludes.
ways where the millions of worlds of Galactic Empires come together.
It was a pleasure to see the new Star Wars just before reading this book.
Like "Prelude", it is a fun, thoughtful science fiction/adventure yarn that carries on the story of Hari Seldon and his development of psychohistory and the two Foundations.
What makes the novel more than just a fun yarn, though, is the deeply moving almost semi-autobiographical thread that runs through the novel: Hari Seldon is clearly, in this story, an idealized version of Asimov, who, writing this novel in the twilight of his life and only a year before his passing, was more than likely re-examining the life he had led.
Seldon/Asimov's Foundation is his legacy, a chance to live on beyond death and to contribute to a better and brighter future for his children and ours.
Diciamo la verità: a mente fredda non è un gran libro, tra personaggi stereotipati e colpi di scena prevedibili.
Eppure… Eppure, queste trecento pagine si leggono tutte d’un fiato, trascinati dalla prosa leggera ma arguta che contraddistingue da sempre l’autore: i dialoghi sono preponderanti sull’azione, anzi quasi costituiscono l’azione stessa in serrati scambi dialettici che, in molti momenti topici, si trasformano nel vero motore della storia.
Insomma: malgrado questa sorta di prequel della Quadrilogia sia un libro tardo e il tentativo di scrivere una ‘storia di domani’ cominci a far sentire una certa stanchezza, gli appassionati del Dottore vi ritrovano una voce comunque inconfondibile e gli altri una lettura rilassante e venata di stimolante intelligenza.
"The Domestic Life of Hari Seldon." The last Foundation book Asimov wrote (1993) is the also the one right before the original trilogy begins (1951).
Like the earlier 'prequel' novel, this book just kind of meanders without much of a central conflict or plot.
There are some tie-ins to other Foundation works or his other series, but ultimately, but book just kind of plods along.
The character dynamics (never Asimov's strong suit) are particularly unsatisfying as there isn't enough external stimuli to keep them interesting.A good chunk of the book is Seldon as crotchety First Minister, Seldon as crotchety psychohistorian, Seldon as crotchety septuagenarian.
It's Asimov, it's a Foundation novel, albeit one written to join with his original Trilogy written 40 years earlier, so it's going to be good if you enjoy this type of Sci Fi. That said it is probably the weakest of them all, and if I could only give it 4 1/2 stars I would, as I can't it has to be 5.
The trouble is once I start on the Foundation novels (and Prelude was a group read) I have to continue.
So in amongst other books I'm reading, I'm going to have to start Foundation next.
Holy cow. I loved all of these books. I realize that they aren't perfect. It was still an amazing read. Thank you, Isaac.
The only novel that's ever made me tear up at the end. If I could give it twenty stars I would. The Foundation series by Asimov is a must read for lovers of literature.
2'5/5 Un poco decepcionante, la verdad. Repetitivo y con un argumento un poco pueril.
The best SF series ever.
A napriek trom hviezdičkám pre tento diel (ktorý mi prišiel fajn, ale ako jeden z najslabších - oproti ostatným) to bolo dohromady úžasné :) jedná z najlepších sérii aké som kedy čítala.
Táto séria donúti premýšľať.
Ale čo ma veľmi prekvapilo, donútilo ma to premýšľať hlavne o ekológii a našej Zemi.
O tom ako si nevážime aký poklad máme pod nohami.
Že dosť rýchlo smerujeme k jej zničeniu.Vypočítala som si svoju ekologickú stopu a zistila, že vôbec na tom nie som tak dobre ako som si naivne myslela.
Nečakala som, že ma sci-fi séria donúti premýšľať o tomto.
Ale som rada, že to malo (aspoň pre mňa) aj tento hlbší zmysel.
Although I might be one of the biggest fans of Isaac Asimov, and although I love the plot and the im
It wasn't exactly what I was expecting, and while the writing was decent, it read very much like individual short stories connected because the settings were similar.
I guess the goal was to explain the time between the "announcement" of the psychohistory project to the point where it is self-sufficient.
As with most of these books that want to express a very large period of time, the difficult lies in jumping through time.
That said, the entire book takes place over the span of about forty years.
A relatively small span of time to have the problems with continuity that the books has.
