https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16878.Arctic_Dreams
To conclude, here is a quote from his National Book Award acceptance speech:"There is a word in Japanese, if I pronounce it correctly which is kotodama.
And if, again, I understand the principle in Japanese, no distinction is made here between fiction and nonfiction.
(They don't make so much a distinction between fiction and nonfiction but between the authentic and the inauthentic.) They ask of a story whether it helps.
And to be alert for its openings, for that moment when something sacred reveals itself within the mundane, and you know the land knows you are there" (Arctic Dreams, p.228) What a fascinating book it is.
It does not merely describe the landscapes, animals and people he encounters - it explores what the Arctic does to the mind and heart, what it awakens in the hopes and desires of those who live in or travel through the far north.
And there is so much more that one can find among these pages - the themes here are as vast as the Arctic landscape itself.
I stumbled on this in 2005, in a little bookstore in Heidelberg specializing in used English-language books. I was just trying to refill my reading material for my trip with something at least marginally interesting, but this turned out to be one of the most stunningly gorgeous books I've ever read--Lopez manages to not only see the hidden beauty of the seemingly barren Arctic landscape, but capture and convey its glory through his prose.
If you've never read any of Barry Lopez' work, here's a quick inaccurate description: He writes about the visible world with the mind of a scientist and the heart of a poet.
It's as if the arctic was a place where they would finally be able to see clearly, to sense forcefully what is only rarely and dimly felt in our temperate, distracted noisy world.
Still, books like this one are needed, and we are grateful for the men like Lopez who travel to these fearful, beautiful places and tell us about them.
He covers topics not typically found in a science-based book, such as art, culture, emotion, imagination, spirituality, philosophy, and the capacity for astonishment.
Lopez makes a cogent argument that deep-rooted ideas about seasons, time, space, distance, and light are not applicable to the arctic, and that different ways of thinking about these concepts are needed.I have read numerous scientific books and I am fascinated by the ability to survive in extreme conditions.
This book stands out for its ability to communicate the science involved in understanding the arctic, while simultaneously clarifying the limits of scientific thinking in gaining a true sense of the region.
But it is an incredibly harsh environment; it takes no prisoners.The celestial light on an arctic cuspThis hostile landscape is a place that Lopez has returned to time and time again to discover the people and animals that navigate and migrate across this land of ice.
Jet-black guillemots streaking over the white iceI loved the landscape parts of the book, his eye for details on the landscape and the people are really good, and the writing comes across so well you could be there watching the aurora borealis with him.
I read this book about 15 years ago and did not like it.
as based in studies of temperate zones, so that we do not have the vocabulary, philosophical or scientific basis for studying the Arctic, and that we need more than science to understand a region or a place.This is not an easy book to read and it took me a long time to finish.
And, Mr. Lopez gave the most meaningful key note address I have ever listened to (with 40 years of conference going behind me) and a working sessions that left many of us so dazed that we skipped the conference for the the rest of the afternoon .
The writing is lyrical- a meditation on the Arctic- its animals, its ways and the humans who have interacted with it since the early explorers and also the Eskimos.
The chapter on the polar bear and the musk oxen were fantastic.
I learned a lot about these animals I did not know.
This book captures how the Arctic "captures" the imagination, dreams, and desires of humans.
This is also part adventure book - so many sections the author retells his experiences in the Arctic while interspersing the narrative with natural history.
A fantastic book!
Atmospheric refractions produce mirages so realistic they have confounded Arctic explorers of the past, and caused phantom land masses to be mapped.The animal and plant life are notable not so much for their reduced diversity as their unique adaptations.
To the northwest is the open Chukchi Sea. This is where Lopez introduces the polar bear, “a creature of Arctic edges.” (p.79) It is a creature designed for frigid waters, but who lives on land.
Glacial runoff from Devon Island and up-swelling nutrient rich currents are the basis for a unique ecosystem which hosts some 3 million seabirds, 30% of the North American population of the belukha whale, ¾ of the world's Narwhal population, and dens of polar bears and Arctic fox.
While one might come to this book underestimating or failing to consider the "power of a long-term association with the land," it is impossible to finish reading without an immense regard for the power of Lopez's intense observation, knowledge, and lived experience in the Arctic.
The narrative covers vast ground, elegantly navigating between "scientific," specific examinations of anthropology, history, and biology of a world unknown and undreamed by most, and Lopez's first person dream-haunted travelogue-memoir.
The stillness of this vast landscape, at least as evoked by Lopez, create a different kind of time, the acceptance necessary for a different kind of life:He writes, "Long unpunctuated hours pass for all creatures in the Arctic...
A reader could be prone to chills on a sunny March day as spring breaks through, and still be mesmerized by the love Lopez clearly has for a land that routinely has temperatures double digits below zero centigrade. His love of the landscape’s mysterious, often impenetrable serenity, is filled with mirages and challenges for daily survival that suspend a reader’s usual perceptions like a good science fiction. Slyly, he invites the reader to imagine the polar solstices, learn about the elegant pol
His love of the landscape’s mysterious, often impenetrable serenity, is filled with mirages and challenges for daily survival that suspend a reader’s usual perceptions like a good science fiction.
I have a reasonable vocabulary, but I often learn new words in well written and deeply crafted books.
Definitely not a vacation book, Arctic Dreams was enjoyable to read in deep winter when I easily drift into his atmosphere and was willing to read patiently during long dark nights.
It ends with the presence of today’s oil companies as he describes them as pleasure adventurers that are littering the landscape as they are in Nepal.
A thorough examination of the Canadian arctic's wildlife, people, landscape and history.
The landscape is hospitable only to the supremely well-adapted, but even then will turn on animal or human populations in a way that better climates won't.
A stretch of bad days in temperate climates will inconvenience you--in the arctic they could kill you.
Lopez is traveling with some native hunters, enduring some particularly lousy weather, when a helicopter unexpectedly appears and lands nearby.
He's concerned about a ship in the area that had broken up some ice and might have caused some difficulty for the travelers.
He offers to take them up in the helicopter to survey the area.
And ignorance is an important them in the book: for part of what López argues is that the arctic is such a weird place, so hard for Western humans--products of the temperate zone--to understand and so resistant to the many ideas and plans we have projected on to it.Already there is the tension that makes the book unsatisfying, and López so aloof.
At the same time, some of his stories about eskimo activities belie this argument, showing that eskimos can be as rapacious and ignorant of the arctic as outsiders--or, perhaps said better, that they do not necessarily see the landscape in the same kind of sacred way that López does, one that demonizes anything above subsistence living.The villains are the usual--Western explorers who corrupted eskimo culture and now the people who work for oil companies.
(Also, this is the 100th book I read in 2014.)A passage, toward the end of the book: “No culture has yet solved the dilemma each has faced with the growth of a conscious mind: how to live a moral and compassionate existence when one is fully aware of the blood, the horror inherent in all life, when one finds darkness not only in one’s own culture but within oneself.
I was looking to travel (through the book) to the North Pole, observing the wonders of the natural world there.
I was happy to receive historical background on Arctic exploration, and a scientific look at the environment.
But there's something about Lopez's writing that represents more arrogance than a true scientist should have.
Rather than being humbled by nature and what he (and the science community) doesn't know, the book felt like a lecture with a few interesting narratives thrown in.His writing is beautiful, and I appreciated his research on the varied arctic topics covered, but I couldn't stomach his condescending attitudes.
This was a fascinating look at all aspects that make up the Arctic region. López shows such deep respect for the people and their culture, the wildlife, and the land itself as he writes in great detail about each. He describes the science of different types of ice formations, the mesmerizing play of lighting, and the migratory patterns of the animals that spend time here. One might think this would make for tedious reading but the topic is so interesting and the prose so exquisite that you're carried seamlessly along. One of my favorite books read this year.
3.5 stars.Lopez is an excellent memoir writer, but not the greatest non-fiction writer, so although I enjoyed the wide-reaching topics covered here, I can't bring myself to round the 3.5 stars up to 4.This is a lengthy study of the Arctic, with chapters covering specific wildlife, the history of the exploration of the region, weather and ice phenomena, and some of the general scholarly research that has been done on the Arctic.
But for the majority of us who can't go there, this book certainly is a good alternative.It does lend itself to some better maps and some pictures (then again, Lopez does say that photos and paintings don't do the landscape justice at all), but the writing style is fairly engaging.

When I have thought about the ways in which they differ from people in my own culture, I have realized that they are more afraid than we are.
They are afraid because they accept fully what is violent and tragic in nature.
We fear.'""Many people claim that the aurora makes a sound, a muffled swish or 'a whistling and crackling noise, like the waving of a large flag on a fresh fale of wind,' as the explorer Samuel Hearne wrote.
And some Eskimos say 'the lights' will respond to a gentle whistling and come nearer.
I'm adding this book to my list of favorites. This is an amazing exploration of every aspect of a landscape that I previously had no interest in -- and now I'm completely captivated. Besides making me think the muskox is one of the most amazing animals on the planet, Lopez also made me ponder some deeply philosophical questions regarding the nature of happiness and beauty, and my connection with place and my landscape. It's a long and dense book, but well worth the read.
3 stars for the slow parts to slog through, a solid 4 for the rest.Highlights for me were the chapters on the polar bear, the narwhal, Ice and Light and A Northern Passage. There is pretty much no aspect of the Arctic or of life that Lopez does not touch on. A thought-provoking read that's very easy to lose yourself in.
I liked what Lopez is presenting here with wildlife and the natural world of the arctic. However, the passages sometimes suffer from writing that is too dry and not engaging enough to hold the reader's interest. ARCTIC DREAMS was a book I hated to quit on, but I could only make it about half way through.
I tend to feel elated when finishing a book by Barry Lopez. His ardor for landscapes and the vocabulary that flows out of this affection evokes something peaceful in my spirit.The Arctic deserved a good look and telling by someone who could meditate on it with equal parts scientific rigor and a deeply spiritual orientation toward hope. Lopez was that someone.
One of my favorite non-fiction books of all times! I can't believe I hadn't marked it as read here on Goodreads.
I spent nearly half a year working my way slowly through Arctic Dreams.
It's a lovely, meditative book on the natural history of the Arctic.
López's prose is densely informative, but also thoughtful, literary, and respectful of the very human history of a land often thought to be "empty" by its colonizers.
Some of the book's ecological concerns are dated in a way I find particularly depressing - in 1986, the author's biggest concern was industrial development.
I had to read this book for class, so by no means was this something I would have chosen to read on my own. I loved the first few chapters when he talked about the animals but quickly grew uninterested after. The writing was great and I see why people who enjoy this type of book would enjoy it, but again, it was a school assignment and I read it because I had to.

Like Rachel Carson, author Barry Lopez writes with a poetic beauty that reflects his love of nature as he takes the reader on an extended field trip through the the Arctic landscape to study what life is like in this frozen world.
A good portion of the book is devoted to the authors observations and thoughts on the behavior and evolution of some iconic Arctic animals like the Musk Ox, Polar Bear and Walrus.
Lopez also delves into our cultural history with thoughts on the early days of Arctic exploration and modern day scientific research and the exploitation of the Arctic by world governments, international industry and multinational shipping.
My impression is mixed. I’d rate individual chapters from 3 to 5 stars. An example of the latter, was the one on polar bear travel.
He uses the alienness of the Far North to contrast the Eurocentric approach to the world with that of one that requires intimate and complex knowledge of, and relation to, the land for survival and growth.These ideas seem to me to be obvious: we should know by now that just because a culture does not use our "advanced" technology, it does not make it "primitve." That other cultures have skills and knowledge we have lost or never learned that make life richer in ways that are different but no less valid than what we consider valuable.
