https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6151.Life_of_the_Beloved
While I love Nouwen, I was disappointed by this work.
He speaks of us as being (like the bread of the Eucharist) taken, blessed, broken, and given.
However, without the explanation of why we are broken and how we are blessed, the work rings hollow.
I think that this speaks to the fact that the Gospel, stripped of "religious language" can be powerfully effective, but not if it also has the very heart removed.If you want to read your first Nouwen, go with Return of the Prodigal or The Way of the Heart.
I resonated with his explanation of our being loved by God, missing that point, and therefore trying to substitute affirmation from the world in place of God's love.
The book was written to a friend, a secular Jewish man, who asked Nouwen to "speak to us about the deepest yearning of our hearts, ...." And in the end, Nouwen wasn't able to do that.
In his earnest desire to invite his friend to a spiritual life, he neglects to mention that there is a cost.Yes, God loves all of us.
Only then can we say "yes" to God.In short, Nouwen leaves out the Gospel.
Not in any way a hard read, but one I needed to take my time with, to let it settle in and make space for reflection and action.
It's seemed remarkably in tune with the relationships and topics on my heart right now, but I think perhaps it's a simple enough book and has enough wisdom that might always be true.
It was a nice moment to have it recommended as a source of comfort right now when I had just been reading it.

I've only read one Nouwen book that I haven't thoroughly enjoyed. After reading Life of the Beloved, I've still only read one Nouwen book that I haven't thoroughly enjoyed (and I can't remember the name of that one). This book was, however, different from most of his other books, but his humility and love for God and people still seeped through every page. I loved this book for its simplicity and down-to-earthness. No high and lofty theology here - just the basics. We're human: broken and imperfect, but God loves us and gives us each other to love.
It wasn't an unreasonable expectation, as Nouwen speaks of having written other books that "were so explicitly Christian and so clearly based on a long life in the church" (20) that his friend couldn't find much support in them.
As a Christian, there were nuggets I could glean and, through the lens of my biblical and spiritual understanding, apply to my life, because through the Gospel I have experienced the acts of love that make Nouwen's words ring true.
The biggest benefit I got from reading this book was a greater understanding of how the facets of Christian life that Nouwen omits are integral to living the life of the Beloved.
I cannot say enough good things about this book. I have already come back to it more than a handful of times to soak up the words again and again and again. I have always loved and wrestled with the idea of being beloved, and this book illuminated all of that. Originally written by Nouwen for a Jewish friend, I found it incredibly convicting and humbling and stunning as a lifelong Christian. I want to get the word beloved tattooed on my body to remind me forever of the core truth of my identity: I am His Beloved.
Probably one of Henri's most important books. It is difficult for many people to understand themselves as "Beloved".
"From the moment I was helped to experience my interpersonal addiction as an expression of a need for total surrender to a loving God who would fulfill the deepest desires of my heart, I started to live my dependency in a radically new way. Instead of living it in shame and embarrassment, I was able to live it as an urgent invitation to claim God's unconditional love for myself, a love I can depend on without fear." I think I may have found my new favorite book.
When we keep claiming the light, we will find ourselves becoming more and more radiant.  I was talking with a friend recently about the tumult of life, how it can frustrate and embitter. You can spiral into depression when you feel you have no control or power to affect your own life. It is critical to ground your life in something immutable or you will be jerked around by constant change. Henri Nouwen shares in this slim letter the root of his own resilience. In a world that shouts you are no
You can spiral into depression when you feel you have no control or power to affect your own life.
Nouwen points out that when one person is chosen, another person often feels rejected.
Instead of rejecting others as less valuable, it accepts others in their own uniqueness.
Instead of making us feel that we are better, more precious or valuable than others, our awareness of being chosen opens our eyes to the chosenness of others.
That is the secret to staying joyful, at peace and grounded now matter what you encounter in life or death.
I feel I could pick up this book at any time and be reminded of the most simple and profound truths of identity. Nouwen's conversational prose with a friend makes the heart of the book easily identifiable and accessible.
Poignant and helpful in reflecting on my own spiritual journey. I like that Nouwen is familiar with and is writing in the modern context because he speaks to struggles with which I am very familiar and reminds of the need to stay in touch with the truth of being Beloved.
This book is a beautiful guide to saying yes to God’s pursuing love in our everyday lives. So much of our culture has made sex and marriage the bread of life, but Henri Nouwen shows how to interact with God as our one true lover. It was a challenging read for me because I tend elevate human love over God’s love, but this book is helping me find satisfaction and belonging in God’s love first.
Here Nouwen attempts to explain to his young friend why faith is important in the modern world, and how it can help people lead their very best lives.He's organized his letter around the concept of being the Beloved -- the chosen.
Ultimately, the letter fails to do what Nouwen hopes: explain and convince his friend that faith is the answer.
Nouwen is honest about the fact that while his book may not have had the desired effect on his friend, it has reached others, and has ultimately deepened his friendship.
Nouwen's writing is amazing!!"Life is a God-given opportunity to become who we are, to affirm our own true spiritual nature, claim our truth, appropriat and intergrate the reality of our being, but most of all, to say "yes" to the One who calls us the Beloved."Nouwen wrote this book in response to longtime friend, Fred Bratman, request for "a word of hope to people who no longer came to churches or synagogues." Nouwen explains spiritual life as: I.
Living as the Beloved -- chosen, blessed, broken and given to live out our lives with a deep inner joy and peace.
The book found resonance in the lives of others though, others who perceived and experienced differently.Bringing my own experience to the book, I was interested in Nouwen's use of the word "Beloved" as a Christian.
I felt this book is a place where Christianity and other paths, such as Sufism, can meet.Given where I am in my personal life at the moment, I found Nouwen's discussion about how we are all chosen and loved by the Beloved, that we are the Beloved, very meaningful.
The Beloved is inside of us, loving us and accepting us, all the time.
In this sublime work Fr. Nouwen offers: "The greatest gift my friendship can give to you is the gift of your Belovedness.
Isn't that what friendship is all about: giving to each other the gift of our Belovedness?"This book is, at its essence, a love letter.
From the moment we claim the truth of being the Beloved, we are faced with the call to become who we are.
Becoming the Beloved is the great spiritual journey we have to make.
"Becoming the Beloved mean letting the truth of our Belovedness become enfleshed in everything we think, say or do."
This is a sincere telling of the abundant love that God has for mankind and how we can find fulfillment and purpose by seeing ourselves as Chosen, Blessed, Broken, and Given.
The secular world that Fred lives in allows him to function and even prosper without God and that is His design.
One of my favorite aspects of the book was how Henri loved Fred and committed to a relationship despite their different spiritual perspectives.
How easily I give up on people that don't share my passion for God!
Henri pours love on Fred from his overflowing cup in every chapter.
There are a few books a person reads in their lifetime that changes their life.
In a clear, straightforward delivery, Nouwen provides his view on how to live life well.
The principles are nothing new (know that you are beloved by God, give yourself to others, bless those you come in contact with), but Nouwen’s personal openness effected me like none of his other books that I have read.
Written as a letter to a younger, secular Jew, the friendship shared, the struggles gone through and the respect for each other, provides a beautiful example of Nouwen living out his faith to a world that does not always want to engage in that faith.
Do yourself a favor and read this book.
It was meant to be written for a friend of Nouwen's (the author) who did not have the same faith as Nouwen and was entrenched in the secular world.
He wanted to communicate that in a world so fast-paced and self-serving, when we know God's love we are able to claim our identity as "The Beloved".
This allows us to not be as affected by the criticism of the world, but be at rest knowing that we don't have to prove anything to the world.
We each have a gift to give to the world, and we can love those who hurt us because we have been so loved.
So many gems in this slender volume.
It is deep, and simple, and filled with so much love.
This is a book to be savored a few pages at a time, not gobbled up in one sitting.
Nouwen's spirit in writing, which I adored, is well expressed in the epilogue where he says, "I feel within myself a deep-rooted resistance to proving anything to anybody...I can only say, 'for me, God is the one who calls me the Beloved, and I have a desire to express to others how I try to become more fully who I already am.' But beyond that I feel very poor and powerless."
Very few books receive 5 stars from me, but this is one of them. Maybe partly because I opened this book without expectation and was subsequently blown away by the focus on being God's beloved. This is something God has been showing me over and over again in the last 5 years--about how much HE LOVES ME and then what my response should be to a world that feels so unloved. A MUST read!
One of the best books I've read in a while..
And yet, from a Christian perspective, living within this truth is essential if I want to participate in bringing about the conceptual kingdom of God, a kingdom that turns the world upside down and makes justice, mercy, grace, and love the most important acts in any situation.
Until we see each person as our peer, our brother or sister in the large human family, we all remain damaged.It is difficult to believe that by simply realizing and accepting my own belovedness I might be able to bring some positive change within the world, but it’s also easy to believe that without doing this I don’t have a chance.
This book was headed to be one of my favorites of recent years - I kept waiting for the author to articulately and sensitively weave in Christ as well as the issue of sin, but both were noticeably absent.
With that said, I still found this book to be worth the read and likely one that I will read again (perhaps, I missed something along the way so I can give this the 5 stars I assumed I would give after reading the first half).
Nouwen is one of those spiritual writers that speak to me.
The Life of the Beloved is a book that anchors itself on the idea that we are Beloved to God, for he knew us before we were born.
In between these pages, I found the wisdom I could communicate, I could create, because if you knew you were Beloved, if you knew that deep down your presence here was because you were loved---chose (taken), then would you not wish it to be blessed, broken and given?A wonderful book, as Nouwen' spirituality is so humanistic that it grounds what is often above our heads to what is real and human.
This book is speaks to you without any theological pretenses and, instead, examines the shape our lives' take as Beloved daughters and sons of the Father in Christ.
Instead, Henri focuses on processing our relationship to God in his own words: "you are my beloved, with whom I'm well pleased".
That reason alone, the fact that he helps you process, authentically, the Spirit-filled life that comes with grasping our roles as sons and daughters of the Father, makes this book a 6/5.
If you want to root your relationship with God without theological hang-ups, I would recommend any friend to read this book....
A beautifully poetic way of looking at belongingness, pain, giving, and death from a Christian POV but without the trappings of Christian dogma. Interesting. A few times I disagreed with him or felt the lack of concreteness. Other times things resonated vividly with my own experience and understanding. I appreciated the epilogue. Interesting to read with Endo's *Silence* (as I am doing right now).
A beautiful book that takes time to read. It doesn’t take time because it’s style or language are challenging in any way. Give this book your true attention, with time to absorb and reflect what’s on the page, and you’ll find it’s a beautiful gift from the author. He ultimately missed the mark on the book’s purpose - writing for a secular friend - but he nailed it for those on a spiritual journey.
A worthwhile read, and I love Nouwen's thought of us being taken, blessed, broken, and given.However, I think his appraisal of living as the beloved lacks the identifying of Christ as the object and perfection of Christian faith.
