https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70562.The_Gulag_Archipelago_1918_1956
Soltzhenitsyn talks about how the camp brought out who people really are.
People, he argues, did not become evil in the camp.
At the same time, Soltzhenitsyn reminds us that it is not just that some are evil, for that dividing line runs through each of us (fun fact, that is the one quote you may be familiar with, and he says it twice, having said it early in volume 1).How does that work?
Soltzhenitsyn speaks about a moral core, a nucleus, and I think that's it.
Then come back here.So slog through the first 600 pages and read closely the last 80.
The second volume of the Gulag trilogy is primarily focused on the work camps. He continues his excellent narrative with some amazing stories and describes the people of the archipelago as they really were. This is a remarkable work and should receive a wider audience than it does. This book is about humanity at its best--but more often at its worst. This is one of the most important works available to understand the human soul.

Another chunk of one of the most staggering literary achievements I've ever taken in.
It's insane to me just how exhaustive Solszhenitsyn was on every front—it truly feels like everything is accounted for in this narrative historically, biographically, and existentially.
On top of all that, his prose is always vibrant, his narrative always engaging, and his dark sense of humor always keeping you anchored through one of humanity's worst storms.
Definitely read these if you want a powerful glimpse into one of humanity's darkest hours and how the light still managed to peek through.
This book troubles my soul deeply, as I think it does with every reader.
It is not at all heavy in the sense of style, well that was an exageration, but S.'s language is very vivid and capturing despite that this is not a novel.
It is probably fitting that the Gulag Archipelago is immensly long, since that heavyness of the books can only be match by that heavyness of the subject.
S. shows that massive proportions of the foulness of the communist regime.
I left this book with a heavy heart, and it doesn't seem to brighten up by reading volume 3 eaither.
Solzhenitsyn continues his mammoth exploration of the Gulag with a detailed study of the labor camp system, its practices, and its residents, the "natives" of Gulag. He then follows with a much shorter meditation on the choices human beings trapped in the system faced, to retain their humanity and likely lose their lives, or to betray the very core of humanity within them in order to survive. Hard reading, but necessary.
Have you read the first volume? This is just as important a read as the first. I found it is also a bit easier to read than the first. This volume deals more with search and seizure, and conviction; set years ago on a foriegn backdrop, it reads like an omen of today's political atmosphere, a warning to protect our rights.
In Volume 1 of The Gulag Archipelago, Solzhenitsyn not only explained how this system started and developed; how Lenin created the Law Codes to justify these crimes; how Stalin sent wave after wave to disappear in this system of sewage disposal; most of all, he explained what arrest, imprisonment, interrogation and transport (to distribution centres and to camps) meant to the person involved.
People who submit freely to the most inhumane conditions, only because of fear and division.Alas, the main port of Volume 2, which deals with the life of the persons in camp, is interesting but can become rather long winded.
That the author published this at tremendous personal risks and post achievements like a Nobel prize (which would make perhaps some other to turn less ambitious or brave) embellishes the great service this work has done to our societies.That said, this is an incredibly hard book to read.
A tragedy involving millions could have tales differing somewhat that could last books hundreds of times as big or summarized with key details in a length perhaps one fifth.
Some, like this reviewer, may feel guilty leaving such a great work midway as well and plod on.
The second part (books 3 and 4) of The Gulag Archipelago is a literary wrecking ball that demolishes even more aspects of the Soviet Union and Communism in general.
The intellectual tour de force which analyzed the prelude of Stalinist Russia, its trials, arrest and interrogations in the first two books, continues with a painfully detailed dissection of camp life in the archipelago.
Book three describes, among other facets, the life of prisoners, guards, criminals and women, kinds of work, trading, the mindset and language of the camps.
The Gulag Archipelago Volume 2 is a distillation of the experience and history of the labor camp system of the Soviet Union and the untold millions who died.
Alexander Solzhenitsyn is filled with remorse and regret, condemning his previous service and his early behavior - but this book is not about him, rather it is all that was carved into his heart after years of constant death and hardship.It is not a book for the timid, but as a contribution to the world its value is innumerable.
The fact that Solzhenitsyn made it out of the Gulag alive and blessed us with this book is an absolute gift.
This is the most influential book I’ve read to date in my life.
A Masterpiece!“Gradually it was disclosed to me that the line separating good and evil passes not through states, nor between classes, nor between political parties either — but right through every human heart — and through all human hearts.
This line shifts.
And even within hearts overwhelmed by evil, one small bridgehead of good is retained.
an unuprooted small corner of evil.”
An intense study of human nature. It tries to explain the atrocities of the 20th century, and how to recover from them.It also talks about the past, present and future of the Russian culture. Basically it's a prequel to the state of affairs Russia is in in 2017. I think it also made me comfortable with being Tatar and calling myself Russian. The way we talk, the way we behave, the way we live -- it all have been affected by the Soviet era.Can't recommend this enough. Most human book I've ever read
What an unbelievable feat that was accomplished with this volume. As of today I am 2/3rds finished with the epic that is the entire of this thick tome on the Gulag - as well as the effects of the Soviet system, legitimized by its Marxist dogma, and brought to its logical conclusion. This book has forever altered my view of progressive policy, and this second volume only bolstered those perspectives and polemical arguments.
This is the second of the three books of the entire work, this one covering the work camps, for the most part, though it also has a short section at the end evalutating the effects of the Gulag on the souls of prisoners, their keepers, and the society as a whole. It is not all negative by any means and is surprisingly uplifting reading, though it is also very gruesome. I am about to begin the third volume, after which I'll try to write a better review of the entire work.
part 2 deals specifically with the forced labor camps themselves and virtually every walk of life that passes through there. a few passages from ivan denisovich are reprinted. not too much of this recounts solzhenitsyn's personal experiences in the gulag (presumably that will be in vol 3), but the picture he paints of those who weren't as fortunate to escape hard labor is incredibly bleak
Checkmate to communism.I loved the last chapters - We Are Building, The Ascent, On Corruption and Our Muzzled Freedom.
Pe de altă parte, ocnașii lui Dostoievski aveau pîine la discreție, mese copioase de Crăciun, iar la Sahalin deținuții mineri și „drumarii" primeau rații suplimentare (1,5 kg pîine si 400 g de carne pe zi) în lunile cele mai dure ca regim de muncă, în timp ce, treizeci de ani mai tîrziu, prizonierii vor primi uneori numai 100 g de pîine umedă și plină de impurități pe zi, iar „șapte sute de grame de asemenea pîine vor fi socotite o rație de invidiat, „pentru fruntași"Că tot am amintit de Lenin, știați că el este acela care a cerut crearea lagărelor de concentrare sovietice în 1918, folosind pentru prima dată această sintagmă (pînă atunci utilizată doar cu referire la prizonierii de război) pentru cetățenii propriei țări?
No single camp in Gulag saw as much death, true, but the Nazi system was neither as extensive nor as long-lived, nor did as many people go through the Nazi camps as the Soviet camps.
Those who died in the Gulag did so after years or decades of prison life degrading not just their bodies, but their souls, their humanity.
Those in the camps were given a simple choice between the death of the body and the death of the soul.
I agree with Solzhenitsyn that nobody lost their humanity in camp who had not already had a bit of rot in their soul when in freedom.
Ce livre ne manque cependant pas d'humour, "(...) nulle part, ni dans l'ancienne Russie, ni en Italie, ni en France, on n'a aussi bien réussi à faire perdre le goût de la grève de la faim que chez nous, en Union soviétique." (p.
L'essentiel dans la vie, tous ses secrets, vous voulez que je vous les dise tout de suite?
Vous n'avez pas l'échine rompue, vos deux jambes marchent, vos deux bras se plient, vos deux yeux voient et vos deux oreilles entendent - qui pourriez-vous bien envier?
Frottez-vous les yeux, baignez votre coeur et au-dessus de tout mettez ceux qui vous aiment et qui sont bien disposés à votre égard.
This is must-reading for anyone who wants insights into the depravity and cruelty of humanity, but at the same time the amazing resilience of the human spirit in the face of profound suffering.
How Zolzhenitsyn could be thankful for his time in the gulag, I believe, is one of the more powerful themes in this volume.
This book should is also must-reading for anyone who thinks that Socialism is a benign political system.
I'm looking forward to finishing the work and will soon read volume 3.

This book is quietly brutal; that is to say Solzhenitsyn describes the extreme conditions of the Gulag system in full detail while at the same time eschewing shock value and sensationalism.
Indeed, his presentation is forensic while the writing remains reasonably fluid with flourishes of sardonic - and given the subject matter, deliberately humorless - wit.In Volume II of Gulag, we go inside the camps and meet their inhabitants.
With rare exception, there are no heroes here; the camps dehumanize everyone, even children.
„Po skončení pracovného dňa na trase zostávajú mŕtvoly. Sneh im pokýva tvár. Ktosi sa schúlil pod prevrhnutý fúrik, strčil ruky do rukávov a tak zamrzol. Ktosi stuhol s hlavou medzi kolenami. Tam zamrzli dvaja, opretí o seba chrbtami... V noci idú sane a zbierajú ich. S dreveným buchotom hádžu pohoniči mŕtvoly na sane.No v lete sú z mŕtvol, ktoré zavčasu nepozbierali, len kosti a dostávajú sa spolu s kamením do betónovej miešačky. Tak sa dostali do betónu poslednej plavebnej komory pri meste Belomorsku a tam zostanú naveky.“
All of my 7+ decades of life, I've heard about how terrible it was to live in the USSR, but I'd always assumed there might have been a bit of anti-Soviet propaganda in our telling of it. I had no idea just how bad it was before reading this book. Highly recommended!I just finished Volume 2 and will look forward to Volume 3 as soon as it arrives in the mail. I wonder why it's not been available as an e-book. There is a price listed, but it says "unavailable".
On the one hand, you have the unbelievable revelation of all the cogs and pieces of the largest human soul+body grinder industry operating for the Greater Good (Bolshevism, Collectivism, Stalinism, Communism, etc.).On the other, a most joyful description of what is to be human and what we can learn from each other, even under the most grueling conditions.It should be of mandatory reading all over the world, and not just (but justly so) in Russia.
A heavy read but uplifted by one of the most moving chapters I have read in any book in a long time: The Ascent. This book, the second in the series, details life in the hard labor camps of the Gulag and the subculture of the zek-ah Nation. Solzhenitsyn's thought and words are insightful, wise and moving. I am excitedly beginning the third volume now.
We've seen atrocities committed by Nazi or Imperial Japanese Army, but all of them happened in times of war. This book contain stories from author's perspective during mostly peacetime era under Stalin and I could say that it is worse than any human I thought could endure. What happened in the camp is unimaginable.
speciellt intressant om byggandet av belomorkanalen, om kvinnorna och barnen i gulag och "we are building" om öarnas verkliga syfte (och blödande ekonomiska verklighet). "the ascent" om vad staffarbete gör med en person på ett spirituellt och moraliskt plan påminner en hel del om ivan ilitjs död. dvs blev nästan religiös när jag läser den.
Jesus this is good. Might be mandatory reading for anyone that doesn't believe how bad things can get.
