https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59478.A_Skeleton_Key_to_Finnegans_Wake
Joseph Campbell’s A Skeleton Key to Finnegans Wake was the first book-length critical study published on Joyce’s Meisterstück.
Epstein himself has published A Guide Through Finnegans Wake which may be a useful alternative.
Because who else is Joseph Campbell but another reader who just happens to have written a book about what he’s read.
And Reread and Readagain.Addendum :: Many new Wake Readers are baffled by the beginning of this novel.
In his “Synopsis and Demonstration” at the beginning of his book, Campbell demonstrates what a first-pass close reading of these four paragraphs might look like.
Sort of interesting introduction (less so than that in the Oxford Press edition of FW) and a bit confusing to follow while reading FW in parallel
Being Campbell, this heavily emphasizes the role the abundance of occurrence of myth plays in Joyce's masterpiece.
And it is a large, if not the largest, role.
And this skeleton key does a great job pointing the way through key aspects of the "plot" of Finnegans Wake.
One should use McHugh thoroughly and learn to read the Wake oneself.
Campbell's work is best used throughout a first reading of Joyce's text, and will go a long way to easing a new reader on.
A great achievement, do not doubt it, but I'm not sure I'll be utilizing it with further readings.
One of the first and still indispensable books for working through Finnegan's Wake. The authors present their sense of the text beneath the text beneath the text beneath the text, along with some commentary and thoughts about what is going on.Campbell went on to become an icon in the field of mythology, symbolism, and world religions. His knowledge and intellectual powers are at full play here in what was one of his earliest texts.
I doubt that even 400 pages of cliff notes will be enough.So far, incredibly helpful. In addition to pointing out major themes and structural points in the beginning, this is basically a paragraph by paragraph “translation” of Wake. Read a paragraph of Wake, read the corresponding paragraph in this, then re-read the paragraph in Wake. That’s how I plan to get through the book with at least some basic, elementary level of comprehension.
finnished! finnel thawts: http://www.5cense.com/15/433.htm
preferred anthony burgess' essay (http://www.metaportal.com.br/jjoyce/b...), although any interpretation is really hard to separate from the interpreter.mostly joyce loved puns, but not the funny kind.in the beginning of the ALP section that ends the book you read:"Soft morning, city!
Or is it only so hesleems?"this is one of the least nonsensical passages, and gives a glimpse of what campbell and morton mean when they talk about the ur-meaning of joyce's language.
Here ALP is the wife of HCE waking him up, the river Liffey running through town ("I am leafy"), and a tree losing its leaves (as ALP loses her hair).
The one knock against it is that the authors ascribe such lofty powers and all encompassing intent to Joyce that they are more acolytes than critics.
On the other, they come perilously close to the kind of lickspittle academicians that Joyce is satirizing in the book.
They're also prone to hyperbole, as in:Clearly, a new kind of communication has been encountered in these pages or Of one thing we can be sure: There are no nonsense syllables in JoyceThat said, if you want to understand Finnegans Wake without taking ten years to decipher Joyce's intentionally obscure prosetry, I'd keep this book close at hand.
I was just reminded, after reading an upbeat review of Finnegan's Wake, how my reading years ago would have been impossible had it not been for this book.
Finnegan's Wake was frustrating in a way I cannot define, more so than any book before or since.
I cannot get beyond the issue of the writer's continuously writing jokes to himself which, when deciphered, appeared anti-climactic in a way in which Ulysses and other excellent writings by Joyce never did.I actually enjoyed reading this book more than the book, which it attempted in a very great way, to explain.
Without it I would never have finished my Joyce studies with a passing grade.
Very helpful for getting started in understanding Finnegans Wake.I wished the book had covered the entire Wake. There are plenty of aids available now for making senseof books, allusions, names, religions, geographies, sigla, figures, and all sorts of things appearing and reappearing in the Wake.Nonetheless, while now superseded, it was one of a kind when I got my first copy.If you are reading Finnegans Wake for the first time, you will find the first pages of the Key helpful.
So far, a great commentary to read along with The Wake. The line-by-line translations are silly, but the footnotes are great. I'm sure they do not match Joyce's intentions exactly - they are obviously defenses of Campbell's own idea of the unity of mythology - but they point out many allusions I would read over, and I'm interested in Campbell's interpretation because his fascination with myths mirrors my own.
Joseph Campbell understood more about storytelling than just about any other person I can think of. This book, which he cowrote with Henry Morton Robinson, helps to illuminate one of the most difficult - but most rewarding - books ever written.
O' the labyrinthine ways of it... and what a guide!
I heard this was the hardest book to read...I'm not even going to start reading this, Can't even understand the title...
The parts that announced the themes were very useful but I couldn't see the point of paraphrasing entire chapters - I chose to read Joyce's original instead.
someday I hope to have the time to study this novel long enough to understand it.
He is the God beyond all name; he the Unmanifest, he the most manifest; he whom the mind [alone] can contemplate...he is the One of no body, the One of many bodies, nay, rather he of every body...Joyce's FW celebrates the Joys of Christian/Buddhist diversity of humanity (expansive human consciousness: Gnostic Norwegian Captain, Shem, Archdruid), Brahma (Finnegan, HCE, Shaun), Divine Women (ALP, Iseult, Nuvoletta), his family - and the Sufferings of the inescapable "evil" of Shiva (Buckley), the debilitating harmful sterile intrusive authoritarian institutionalizing damnation (MaMaLuJo, St. Patrick) by Augustine, the manufactured clerical corruption identified by Luther (since 367 AD) and the burdens of "survival of the fittest" anxiety (modern commerce) met with a Dzogchen Buddhist stance.
So far, this is the most helpful companion text to Finnegans Wake that I've used. I've been reading it to help me along. It of course is alone not enough -- I've used a set of glosses and audio recordings, both found online -- but this is the primary companion that has allowed me to move forward. I also appreciate the introductions, which supply snippets from well-written negative critiques of the Wake. before launching into its defense.
If you have read my work (Fixed Stars Govern a Life: Decoding Sylvia Plath and the Decoding Sylvia Plath series), it does.At the bottom of page 191 from A Skeleton Key to Finnegans Wake, Campbell says, “Thus, throughout the work, there is a continual intermelting of the accused and his accusers.
Joyce even put autobiographical elements into Finnegans Wake, where his character Shem the Penman, the seer, poet, mother’s pet, and misunderstood artist, who writes “a phosphorescent book in a corrosive language which Shaun [who later becomes “Yawn,” his ego-focused brother] cannot understand.” (ASK, 11)Campbell writes: “Shem’s business is not to create a higher life, but merely to find and utter the Word.
Was a great help. The first guide to Finnegans Wake, written relatively soon after its publication, I understand some scholars consider some of its insights and interpretations outdated, but it helped me stay on track when making my way through Wake reading #2. I'll take an outdated (partial) understanding over none.
In this work, Campbell and Robinson (i.e., Campbell) provide a running synopsis to Finnegans Wake, establishing what they take to be the essential line of its polysemic plot and presenting it in concise, articulate terms.
Along with McHugh's "Annotations to Finnegans Wake," this book has been my constant companion for the last five months, and as with McHugh's book, I can't even imagine trying to read the Wake with out its assistance.
No. I believe Campbell overstates his mythopoetic reading of the Wake, which is certainly a primary theme, but I'm not sure it's the raison d'etre of the book that Campbell makes it out to be.
как пересказ (тем паче ранний, всего через 5 лет после выхода романа), текст обедняет исходник, что понятно, как попытка вскрыть как можно больше слоев романа - заслуживает всяческого уважения и вселяет надежду, что человеческому разуму, не вооруженному ничем, кроме собственный знаний, это сделать под силу (хотя понятно, что у Кэмбла с Джойсом просто очень много совпадало в сфере интересов и списках прочитанного).и да, в конце Кэмбл дает лучший совет, как надо читать "Финнегана" (он дополняет тот, что дают редакторы отреставрированного текста в своем предисловии).
я его прочел тоже в конце, о чем несколько жалею, мне было бы чуть проще, если б я был вооружен этим нехитрым приемом с самого начала, а так пришлось все вскрывать вот этим вот носом...и еще раз: чтение Кэмбла НЕ заменяет чтения "Финнегана".
But as I went further into Finnegans Wake itself, I realized that there was no one "reality" for me as a reader to "figure out." The trouble with the Skeleton Key is that it presupposes such a reality.
It was the same here - the more I got to know the world of Finnegans Wake, the more I started to feel dissatisfied with the Skeleton Key's assessments.
Also - I realized as I went along that one of the central arguments of Finnegans Wake is against the possibility of the sort of static interpretation that the Skeleton Key provides.
It’s opening and closing chapters do present a laudable insight into Joyce’s technique; but in demonstrating the possibility of a linear narrative, the Key invites the danger of experiencing more difficulty in reading Finnegans Wake than is typically assumed, as readers may attempt to fit a conventional plot into a work that cannot be read in any conventional way.
Anyone with an interest in Finnegans Wake is probably as fascinated by what it isn’t, as those who disdain are irritated by what it is; it’s probably best to keep that fascination alive.
It all started in 1995.
I had been a fan of Joe since I first read The Power of Myth, the companion book of the PBS series of interviews with Bill Moyers, in 1989.
I had not seen the six episodes when they aired in 1988.
I was pretty busy in those days, living in California, working in cable TV, playing (working!) in The Thread, a cover band (some originals) and probably doing a lot of speed.
I did see a lecture once on PBS, and I was immediately fascinated by his ability -- talent, really -- to illuminate myth and symbol.
Finally, I completely read and enjoyed this book.
I read this book in conjunction with Finnegans Wake. it provided a helpful guide, and in his commentary, Joseph Campbell is himself a beautiful writer. The title "A Skeleton Key" is an apt one. it is skeleton key, not in the sense that it opens every lock and every door. Rather it provides a useful to to find one way into the book, and it provides a skeletal frame on which to hang those initial insights that one struggles with on reading FW for the first time. Campbell offers a means of finding order, but nothing is explained away.
It was helpful, but Finnegan is basically beyond me. I've picked it up various times and set it down with a headache. Ulysses and Dubliners are possibly my favorite books, so I will occasionally make a stab at Joyce's last and least accessible. I was doing research of sorts for something I'm writing. Campbell was ecstatic but not really illuminating. I think he advocated letting your eyes play across the page and find one word and just let its meaning resonate. I love Campbell, too, but it sounded like he was using drugs when he wrote this guide.
Joseph Campbell's book was my lifeline through Finnegans Wake. There's no way I would have survived without it. The basic approach of A Skeleton Key was to translate Joyce's enigmatic language into English and provide sporadic commentary to help the reader along. I wish he would have provided more commentary! His introduction and conclusion are masterful expressions and explications of what Finnegans Wake seeks to express.
I mean it's really good and necessarily they have to ignore a lot of stuff but they don't really emphasise enough that this is just a single, individual reading, like hm maybe a cultural anthropologist is gonna find a lot of cultural anthropology to talk about in a famously opaque and multifaceted book, when all you have is a hammer u kno
Superseded, but cheap on ABEBooks!
