https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121226.Wild_Horse_Mesa
Just okay. After Grey’s “Wildfire” I had high hopes for his other novels, but this one falls into several tropes and outdated stereotypes. The story was okay, but the characters less complex and overall less likable.
I love westerns and this one had some excellent description of the area where the 'action' took place. But I wouldn't say there was really that much action.Not a book I will keep to read again, nor will recommend it to 'western' fans. It's more a romance (not my cup of tea) than a 'real western'. It did offer some education about wild house catching though.
Ortho:"Have you ever read Zane Grey?"J: "No, I'd like to."O:"Come over here, let me show you something."At this point he takes me to his bookcase that I figured was full of decorative books, useless left over books from some bygone education program, their only current purpose is to make a shelf look good.
Here's how I like the book...Comparing Grey to L'Amour would be a mistake.
The protagonist, Chance Weymer is a wild-horse wrangler.
(view spoiler)[Sue: "If you had any sense you'd have known I -- I loved you!Chance: "SUE MELBERNE!"Sue:"Now, my wild-horse hunter, take your rope off Panquitch -- and put it on me" (hide spoiler)]
"Wild Horse Mesa" is one of Grey's "lesser" books, but still an enjoyable read.
(wink!)In "Wild Horse Mesa," the tone is distinctly more upbeat, not that this tale doesn't have some gut-wrenching moments.
Chane, the wild horse hunter and hero of the piece, ultimately is horrified by the brutality of his lonesome profession.
Like most Grey novels, this one has a brilliant set piece--in this case the pursuit and entrapment of a herd of wild horses.
She lands her man, Chane, but sometimes I thought her more suited to his younger brother Chess.All in all, a fun read.
If you never read Grey, it's not a starter novel.
I haven't read this book -- but my dad loves Western novels.
I went to a used bookstore and found a first addition print of this book with an inscription date of "1930" that someone dated as a gift presentation on the front inside page.
Anyway, I though it would make a cool Christmas gift for him.
I only spent $3 on the book.
I've since been researching online about it and have discovered first print mint additions are selling for over $100 and that Zane Grey is the 'father' (so to speak) of the Western Genre.
I think I've scored with this present~!
I think this is the first ever Zane Grey I've read. I started it out of desperation while sitting at a Swap Meet (forgot my book), and my husband had a box of Zane Grey's for sale. I really enjoyed it. Pretty funny, because I remember my dad reading these and I never even thought about trying them myself. Hmm - maybe we need to wait till next summer to sell that box of books.
Great Zane Grey romance-western. I especially loved it because it took place in southern Utah near the Kaiparowits Plateau. The imagery is wonderful and the story is great.
I enjoyed reading it. It was not as exciting as some westerns but the story was extremely captivating.
If you love horses and westerns this is your read. It made me feel as if I were on a breathtaking adventure, couldn't wait to turn the next corner. It took me back in time. My kind of western!
I think thid book is great. Its about a man and his talents with catching wild horses.
