https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/899305.Foul_Play
I read this one in one night. Cute story, but there isn't much to it. A little romance, a little humor, and a little adventure makes for a good night's entertainment.
I really enjoyed reading "Foul Play" by Janet Evanovich. This is one of her very early books written for a serial romance publisher in the late 80s/early 90s, and it's very well done for what it is. Evanovich describes these early books as "red-hot screwball comedies" and while I do agree with the screwball comedy, "Foul Play" was very much G-rated. So if you enjoy a very light romance with side-splitting laughter, this is definitely a book for you.
It was fun to read this in part because it is early Evanovich - so it was rougher than her Plum books are - but her humor and motifs are still there.
He is in the parking lot at the grocery store waiting patiently for Mrs. Moyer and her dog to back out of a parking spot so he can pull in.
The story is pretty rough and it ends a little too abruptly for my taste - but I still enjoyed reading it.
The writing was good even if the plot was a little rough.
Really a half star would be more suited. The narrator on audio was horrible. Voice like Maude on Golden Girls. Cheesy doesn't even come close to an accurate description...Story was just ridiculous. Why someone as talented as Ms. Evanovich would attach her name to this book is beyond me. I would have quit listening, but needed noise in the car.
Just a light, silly romance, but that's all it was meant to be. If you want a few chuckles, go for it.
Cheesy af
Entertaining fluff. Stephanie Plum-Lite.
The beginning of Evanovich's hallmark humor is present, and perhaps that will lure long time fans to read this, but I can't recommend it for anything otherwise. Fluffy, purely silly and so sweet it hurt. Of Evanovich's early stuff under the name Steffie Hall, Manhunt is the one I'd say to try.
This is a quick, easy read in which I did cheer for the main characters. However, it was dorky and dumb with an annoying ending. So two stars.
As I have previously mentioned, I love Janet Evanovich.
But her early works are really fluffy and just okay.
The premise of the book is a young woman named Amy gets fired from her job as Lulu the Clown because the new program director replaces her with a rooster.
In her dismay, she catches the eye of a hunky veterinarian and they fall in love within a matter of minutes.
The job-stealing rooster winds up at veterinarian-man's place of work and soon goes missing.
I will still read all JE's books because I love her, but these books are mindless quick reads.
This book was so cute! Funny romance.
I think this unthrones Somebody to Love as the new Worst Book I Read This Year. What an honor. The Stephanie Plum books are bad, but in a silly, likeable way. This was a whole new level of bad.
Cute, funny, and fast read.
If you ever read any of Janet's books you will know that this is her older work. I was amused at the story line and the plot (which was kind of obvious). In my opinion, I enjoyed it but though it was cheesy. Sometimes it is good to read the older works of your favorite authors because you get to see their growth. This was one of the prime examples of Janet becoming a great author. My goal is to read all of her works as I also read through my favorite series of hers(Stephanie Plum).
Foul Play is admittedly a quick read, but it does have a playful storyline and clear evidence of being the early work of Janet Evanovich. I could easily see Amy as being related to Stephanie. A seeming trademark of Evanovich books is that the female protagonist usually starts life over somehow, and Amy's situation in the beginning of the story is no exception. It is a bit alluring to watch her find herself while she also figures out her job predicament. Nice rainy day entertainment.
Actually 3.5 stars.This is a wacky, irreverent, and often laugh-out-loud funny book. It's a quick read, perfect for when you need a mood-booster. The romance between Jake and Amy is sweet, and the "mystery" plot, if it can even be called that, is highly entertaining. Very enjoyable, as long as you don't take it too seriously.
Didnt love it didn't hate it
This is a funny, quick typlical Evanovich read. I enjoyed it, had some laughs, but not much else was gleaned from this one. But if you enjoy Janet Evanovich, I'm sure you will enjoy this one!
A fun and witty light hearted romantic mystery! When life is so full of tension and turmoil, this is the kind of book to escape into. Enjoy!
ariel would love this
Amy Klasse just lost her job as the clown host of a children’s program—to a chicken!
From dropped fruit to shattered eggs, Amy’s tour through the store is a disaster culminating in her embarrassment at the checkout when she realizes she doesn’t have her handbag which is locked, along with her keys, in her car.Jacob introduces himself (with supporting intros from the market clerks) and offers to loan her some money and give her a ride home.
He, later that evening, offers her the job of office receptionist.
HEA except for the chicken.
Jacob comes to the rescue by paying for her groceries (she left her purse in the car) and then by driving her home (she left her keys locked in the car.) With the instant chemistry between the two, he then offers her a job as a receptionist at his office.
While working there, the handler of the chicken brings in the rooster, obviously on his death bed.
Jacob finally figures out what happened to the rooster (the handler couldn't bear him being alone at the office so she took him but he died) and then rushes to locate Amy and bring her home to marry.
Some annoyingly predictable romance novel plot devices that could even be a bit disturbing if I think too hard about the implications, but still... Wacky. Fun. And refreshing in that most of the sexiness was more suggestion than play by play. "Romance novels are birthday cake and life is often peanut butter and jelly. I think everyone should have lots of delicious romance novels lying around for those times when the peanut butter of life gets stuck to the roof of your mouth." -- Janet Evanovoch, 1988
When the author describes these as "screwball comedies" she's not kidding. It's an adventure in Murphy's Law, plagued by 'what's the worst that can happen?'. I'm not totally sure I'm sold on the instant soulmate connection between Jake and Amy, but they make for an interesting pairing. They're also highly unlikely sleuths, bumbling through trying to find out what happened to the missing bird. There's really nothing deep, or emotional, or dramatic in here. The story's light and airy, like marshmallow fluff: no real nutritional value but fun nonetheless.
Fluffy, sappy, quick read. I read it in two evenings, the first being half an hour and going to at least page 40. Has screwball antics like Evanovich's later works, but is less refined; also slightly less outlandish (maybe?). Steaminess--or lack thereof--is rated PG at most. Will I remember this in a few months? Most likely not, except maybe the chicken part. But if you're looking for a light summer read and don't mind sappiness and a happy ending, go for it.
It should have been a funny fluffy read, however I found that all the troupes ((view spoiler)[insta love, getting engaged after only 5 days, complete virgin/goody-two shoes girl, etc. (hide spoiler)]) combined with some problematic relationship themes being romanticized lowered my enjoyment. With this author I think I'll stick to the Stephanie Plum series, at least then the main female character has enough sass to be likeable and not totally forgettable/slightly annoying like Amy.
What a hoot of a story! Amy loses her job, gets her skirt stuck in her driver's door, rips her skirt, rushes off to the grocery story where she up ends a display of grapefruist, drops a dozen eggs, and proceeds to buy groceries with no money, purse, etc. Our hero, the town vet, rushes in to to save her as he has followed her around the store and decided that he is in love with her. The story only gets better from there when Amy is accused of murdering a rooster. A fun read!
This is my first Janet Evanovich and I think it might be my last. Flat characters, helpless virgin, madly in love and engage within 5 whole days and don't forget the man sweeping in and rescuing her with no thought or discussion to what she wanted. Maybe I'm missing something? Was this tongue in cheek? I'll let you know after I get the bile out of my mouth.
3* Mostly I enjoy heavy, meaty novels that teach me things. But sometimes I just want to relax, chuckle, and enjoy something light. This filled the order. It's cute, not realistic, but charming, and I started laughing at the start. I thought the narrator did a great job of the reading and suited this book perfectly.
I love Janet Evanovich, but this book wasn't as good as numbered series. It started off really well, but declined as it went. The story seemed a little on the juvenile side and the ending left a lot to be desired.
