https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/344230.The_Glimpses_of_the_Moon
The disdain I have shown over the years towards romance novels might conflict with this statement, but I truly adore a good love story.
The couple would marry and mooch off of their wealthy acquaintances for a year or so, while they are honeymooning (because rich people are very generous towards newlyweds, showering them with money gifts and free villa rentals), and then, when they find better marriage options, they would free each other with no hard feelings.
After a few months of happy honeymooning Nick and Susy have their first big fight, and instead of working things out, they both take it as a sign that it is time for them to part and seek other partners.
The Glimpses of the Moon has been compared to Wharton's great classic, The House of Mirth, and it's protagonist Susy Lansing to the tragic Lily Bart, and while similarities do exist, Glimpses falls short of House of Mirth. The Glimpses of the Moon was published in 1922, 17 years after The House of Mirth, and one year after The Age of Innocence, so Wharton was at the peak of her writing ability, but Glimpses falls just short of the greatness of the aforementioned novels. It's still good, worth reading, and very much Edith Wharton, so I give it 3.5 stars.
While it provided a pleasant dalliance with post-WWI society, it shows a few signs of moral tiredness, as if Wharton couldn't quite get up steam on this one.Both Nick Lansing and Susy Branch, the main players, are more than a little world weary, and it shows in their actions: deciding too swiftly on marriage and even more swiftly, almost whimsically, on divorce.
Why they are married is a mystery, as it hardly begins as one of the great romances; why they decide to divorce is equally a mystery, given the tangential evidence of "moral failure".
It’s only a paper moonHanging over a cardboard sea,But it wouldn’t be make believeIf you believed in me.It’s a Barnum and Bailey worldJust as phony as it can beBut it wouldn’t be make believeIf you believed in me.**************************Say you don’t need no diamond ringsAnd I’ll be satisfied,Tell me that you want the kind of thingsThat money just can’t buy.I don’t care too much for money, money can’t buy me love. This is the story of Suzy and Nick Lansing, two newly-weds who hang with the ri
It was odd-once upon a time she had known exactly what to say to the man of the moment, whoever he was, and whatever kind of talk he required...But since then she had spoken the language of real love, looked with its eyes, embraced with its hands; and now the other trumpery art had failed her, and she was conscious of bungling and groping like a beginner…I adored this lesser known but brilliant story by one of my favorite authors, Edith Wharton.
They are given gifts and money and dozens of invitations to come and spend their honeymoon abroad, with their wealthy friends, just as planned.
All goes according to plan, at least in the beginning.I thought I knew how it would end, but there seemed to me to be an error in my reasoning.
Usually, Wharton’s books do not have happy endings.
She expertly draws the views of the wealthy and those of high social standing.
She also throws in humor.The book ends up (view spoiler)[cute (hide spoiler)] but not unrealistic.The audiobook is narrated by Anna Fields.
Nineteenth century first world problems
This was a very interesting, highly introspective read set in the glittering world of the 1920's in Europe, with people so far removed from our own reality in thoughts and manners as would make it impossible to relate to anything, were it not for its universal themes coupled with Wharton's astute study of character and perception of the human mind.
I like it when book characters become my friends, which wasn't the case here.
Nevertheless, a wonderful little book by the inimitable Wharton, which I enjoyed much better than the last one I read ;)
No one wrote arid wealth and the oppressive customs of society better than Wharton - she explores the impact of narrow convention on characters at the same time that she ignored those conventions in her real life.In some ways, this is the culmination of the stories that she has been telling her readers.
Nick and Susy Lansing, young, beautiful and impoverished, marry against all good sense, with every intention of abandoning each other when someone new offers them a life of ease and fortune.
I'm so glad I read this book! "It's not House of Mirth," the reviews kept saying. "Well, neither is Anna Karenina War and Peace," I answered, and kept on reading.A marriage of two penniless socialites begins with a business bargain and ends. Or does it?
Susy and her beau Nick have both grown up around rich people though their own families have lost their fortunes.
They meet and fall in love but one rich matron from Susy's circle tells her, in effect, hands off of Nick because she has designs on him.
They set out on their European honeymoon staying in first one rich friend's palazzo and then another's chateau having an exquisite time spending their wedding cheques.
In her trying, Susy begins to seem grasping and amoral to Nick and he in turn feels ashamed he can't give her more either.
Champagne Taste on a Beer Budget--Imagine if Lily Bart and Lawrence Selden from Wharton's THE HOUSE OF MIRTH had given it a go and gotten together--this might have been the result.
In a moment of "madness," they decide to get married, figuring they have a year before the money is gone and they may have to give each other up.Although Nick reminded me (not in pleasant ways) of Angel Clare in Thomas Hardy's TESS OF THE D'URBERVILLES--principled, at the expense of kindness and grace--Susy proved more capable of self-reflection and growth than either Lily Bart or Tess Durbeyfield.
I'd never read Wharton before and picked this up on a whim because it seemed the most intelligent and charming of the new books section in the main library.
It was charming indeed, but also emotionally torturous in the delightful way that well written romances are.
Not, like, romance novels in the modern commercial sense, but in the Thomas Hardy sense.
However, being a fan of tension, especially romantic tension, the letdown at the resolution was both a relief and akin to being slapped in the face by a cut rubber band.
Which is really a testament to the well-written story!
That, after all, has been the object of their lives as hangers-on, as parasites on whomever has the money and the time and the need for social companions that these two can fill.The problems inherent in their contract with one another make up the story.It seemed to me lesser Wharton.
Its members become such easy targets, in her book, and she dislikes them so thoroughly, that that world fails to come alive.
This novel shows what Mrs. Wharton could do when only craftsmanship drove her forward with the work.
I went back and reread the first few pages after I had finished the book.
You never can go wrong with Edith Wharton. But I found this novel, not one of her most famous, especially fascinating, and Wharton's way of mixing romanticism, even sometimes clichés, with an acute realism, works amazingly well and casts a spell. No one has talked about American society as she has - and her characters, battling with their emotions and their ambitions, trapped without necessarily knowing it, are not only quite touching but also not that different from us.
Sposi per un anno! E' questo che si prefiggono Susy e Nick due giovani parassiti che vivono alle spalle di una high society americana agiatissima ma vuota e priva di valori.Sarà una crescita la loro, soprattutto morale, e il sentimento che li unirà li farà maturare e comprendere che, al di là della ricchezza, c'è dell'altro: amore ma soprattutto rispetto di se stessi...Un romanzo nn pretenzioso, leggero solo apparentemente, gradevolissimo e narrato con eleganza...
I feel bad admitting that this is the first book written by Edith Wharton that I have read.But believe me I'm going to rectify that in a big way, because it was a really good book. I don't normally like romances but this was so well written and such a good story...the ending is pretty predictable, but that's okay. Anyway, I now want to read all of her books and am going to start with Ethan Frome.
Though it's something like a twenty-first century romcom (and if this hasn't been adapted for film, it really should be) and it almost reads like parody at times, it is so clearly Wharton's work, this is a charming book.
This book has the same shallow, superficial figures who populate the rest, but Wharton treats them more gently.
Ellie Vanderlyn is too solipsistic a figure to require much nuance, but Wharton allows for her kindnesses and also shows the alternative paths that were open to Vanderlyn.
Romanul a fost ușor de citit, cu un scris plăcut, focalizând imaginea mai mult pe Susy, pe când Nick apare mai mult ca o entitate din umbra eroinei; lectura mi-a făcut plăcere datorită stilului interesant, a firului narativ ușor de urmărit, dar și a finalului, oarecum neașteptat.Recenzia video o găsiți pe canalul meu de YT aici.
As to the title, there are three or four places where the young lovers stand outdoors and gaze at the moon.
I have always thought - before we actually went there - that going for the moon meant reaching far or trying for the utmost.
It is in this context that I thought Wharton named her novel.Susy Branch and Nick Lansing are such people.
Wharton writes of that "set" that she knows best.Susy had always lived among people so denationalized that those one took for Russians generally turned out to be American, and those one was inclined to ascribe to New York proved to have originated in Rome or Bucharest.
Wharton's writing is always exquisite; her words are careful and perfectly placed. Reading Wharton is a lovely, quiet experience. Unfortunately though, I do not think I am her audience. I have never been a fan of romance novels and that is her sweet spot. However, the prose is so good that even I see its charm and its worthiness of a high rating.
At the beginning it's more of a longing to escape, but in her later novels it's distinctly sexual and romantic--possibly related to the eye-opening affair she had in Paris.As I've started delving deeper into her ouvre, I've noticed a lot of things changed from the House of Mirth onward.
Suzy is a fine person who has been dulled by having to charm and sneak her way through life, living on the kindness of richer friends.
Meanwhile, the kind of moneyed-matches that might rid them of their mooching habits forever begin to appear.
Set in the early 1920s, this novel continues Edith Wharton's examination of New York society and the costs it exacts on those who try to be part of it.
This is Susy's idea because both she and Nick are poor yet part of the New York world.
Susy has many more opportunities to maintain her dignity in finding work than Lily Bart did, though not many, and Nick gives the reader a view of what it was like for a man to be born nearly penniless into this world.
It's the story of Susy and Nick who though without money themselves, are hanger's-on to the wealthy, the international set that cruises Europe, dashing from Rome to Paris to cruises on the Aegean.
In order for Susy and Nick to continue in this life, each must marry into money (sell themselves, in other words).
Instead they decide to marry each other and live off wedding gifts.
Nick gets a bad case of conscience and objects to what Susy does and the couple splits up, he to cruise with a newly rich family whose daughter hopes to snag him and Susy to continue to drift and be courted by an English lord.
Nick Lansing and Susy Branch are an extraordinarily clever young couple.
But of course wrinkles in this little plan of theirs do come up.
This is a tale about a young couple's experiences with the infidelities and the duplicitous relationships they observe first-hand in the social setting in which they move, and the lessons they both learn about honor, personal integrity and fidelity.
This is a delightfully fun, and beautifully constructed, novel that fits the age in which it occurs.
Edith Wharton can write a story, and The Glimpses of the Moon, while perhaps not as well known as several of her other novels, is a good one.
Ambientato in quella parte di società in cui la poverà è ignota e il lavoro un perfetto sconosciuto, “Raggi di luna” racconta la storia di due giovani , con qualche difficoltà economica, che stipulano un patto di mutuo soccorso e decidendo di sposarsi, possono beneficiare di versamenti in denaro e ospitalità per almeno un anno.L’autrice mostra la società dei primi novecento, la critica blandamente e ci offre un lieto finale.Ma questa coppia di scrocconi annoia e irrita.
She may like the idea of being rich, to be able to buy fabulous jewels and furs herself rather than have lovely things merely gifted to her by her patronising badly behaving friends, but she isn’t so happy with what she will have to do to attain such wealth.I’m still not entirely sure why this novel was only a three star read for me.
I am sure I will be reading more Edith Wharton soon; I just need to remember that not every novel can be The House of Mirth.
But Susy, with her 'hateful useless love of beauty', simply can't live without luxury, even if she has to do favours for snobs and adulterers to have it.Only in comedy can you get away with having leads like this; in drama, or indeed in real life, they would be abdominal: but in comedy, as written by someone with a fund of sardonic wit such as Wharton, they can be sparkling.Only they're not particularly sparking, physical attractions beside, even if Wharton intended them to be.
It was a kiss with a future in it: like a ring slipped upon her soul. And now, in the dreadful pause that followed--while Strefford fidgeted with his cigarette-case and rattled the spoon in his cup--Susy remembered what she had seen through the circle of Nick's kiss: that blue illimitable distance which was at once the landscape at their feet and the future in their souls. Edith Wharton's The Glimpses of the Moon is a beautifully written novel of two young lovers, newly wed, fighting for their
And now, in the dreadful pause that followed--while Strefford fidgeted with his cigarette-case and rattled the spoon in his cup--Susy remembered what she had seen through the circle of Nick's kiss: that blue illimitable distance which was at once the landscape at their feet and the future in their souls.
Then she remembered that Nick, during their last talk together, had seemed as inaccessible, and wondered if, when human souls try to get too near each other, they do not inevitably become mere blurs to each other's vision.
Despite the man of the couple JOKING with his friends about this woman’s known infidelities, well, when he finds out about this complicity - he breaks it off.
The female of the couple blames herself and gives up wealth to be a nanny (after breaking off a proposal from The Richest Man.)The morality was just a bit too hysterical for my tastes, nowhere near as nuanced as, say, Ethan Frome.
It is all about love and money by Edith Wharton managed to tell the story in a charming way.
