https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41967.Evening_Class
This is a lovely book, Maeve is just the best.
I loved this so much as I haven't travelled, but I can say she took me there.
Maeve Binchy is an author that you think you know, kinship could be the word?
She writes the type of book to re-read.
Actually, I think she may have been one of my first authors I read as an older teen, not 'Dolly Fiction' etc.
My mum leant me her Maeve books and it became a 'thing' of ours.
This is what is uber cool about reading books, the experience at the time, and also the memories that come after for a long time.
I read Evening Class one broiling summer at my grandparent's house in Baltimore.
I also hadn't brought enough books to read.
I finished (and reread) the six books I had taken, then proceeded to raid my grandmother's bookshelf.
I devoured Evening Class in a few hours, tossing and turning in the heat, cringing every time I ruined another pair of underwear.
Evening Class sucked me in.
I related to each character, and read their stories, captivated.
Untangling the threads that connected each story distracted me, and after I finished it, I read it again.
Awwww I didn't want this book to end!!! This is Maeve at her best - weaving together the stories of people attending an evening class in Italian.Such a cosy heart warming story and the audio version (read by Kate Binchy) is as always superb.I love these people and want them to be my friends!I could listen to this family saga for hours...bliss.
I really wish that this site had half stars because I would push this up to a 3.5 stars, but couldn't really give it the full 4. The format of this book was especially interesting because if followed different individual characters for a period and than brought all their stories together in the end. I am definitely a Maeve Binchy fan now and would read anything written by her. Her books make everyday type events and people interesting.
Maeve Binchy has been a huge part of my reading life since I was 18, when a friend urged me to read “Echoes”.
Since that time, I had read almost everything by her.
I enjoyed this book as much as I did the first time that I read it.
The setting is Ireland, as are pretty much all of her books, where several different characters from all walks of life come together to take an evening class in Italian.
This, to me, is where Maeve truly shines – her realistic, everyday characters – and, of course, her storytelling.
There are still some good heartwarming stories here and there though.Evening Class starts out with Aiden Dunne realizing that his dream of becoming principal of Mountainview College is never going to happen.
Once again Binchy does a good job of setting up the stories of the people who will end up attending this evening class.
Per usual I think my favorite sections to read about were Aiden, Signora, and Connie.I felt for Aiden since he is realizing that his wife (Nell) and two daughters (Grania and Brigid) have grown apart through the years.
It's a bad thing about Binchy's books.
Once I start reading, I couldn't stop myself.
The day before yesterday at midday I started to read Evening, I didn't do other things except reading it to the last.
It was about 2 o'clock in the morning when my eyes couldn't recognise a single word.
My brain still on it, but the eyes stopped to cooperate.Once again, Evening Class was a sweet story about people who gathered in an Italian evening class.
People like Signora O'Donoghue, Aidan Duenne, Katherine and Fran Clarke.
And the story flowed in unexpested way, a Binchy's style.
And it had nothing to do with the characters because I genuinely liked the characters & wanted to know their stories.
I wanted to know what was happening with the characters I'd already become attached to & I knew, in my heart of hearts, I would really like the new characters & their stories & the process became redundant & irritating.
Open endings are not my favorite because my imagination is so broad that my mind pulls in so many different directions and I’m left confused.
Just a breathtaking book! Maeve Binchy is one of the best story tellers the world has known. The layers, the depth, the richness of her books is unparalleled. Evening Class, about people who come together two evenings a week to study Italian and the culture of Italy. Each chapter covers the story of a student and how they wound up there. So marvelous. These characters will hang in your mind long after you turn the last page.
I was pleasantly surprised to find a character driven novel that was pleasant to read.
Things I liked: Characters were well developed, it is clear that the author knows that aspect well.
The way the story was told from numerous points of view in the format of each main character getting their own chapter was engaging.
It was really nice to see other peripheral characters pop up in each story.
Things I didn't like: Some fairytale plot points and a few loose ends.
I understand this author carries several characters over into other novels, though, so the loose ends might have been intentional to set up other books.
I think I'm reading so many of these because they represent an escape from the absolute awfulness all around right now. This book made me want to learn Italian or take a class for fun.
A lovely feel-good book packed with sympathetic and realistic characters to love and root for.
Ah the magic of the irish people and their story telling skills...bewitching they are rumored to be, when a good teller of tales is found, and such i believe is the case with Maeve Binchy herself.Evening Class and its 8 characters is another fine, if not perfect, example of Ms. Binchys qualities and skills in drawing a reader to her story like you would be drawn into a talk with a friend you havent seen in ages, but long to know how he/she is doing. Youll probably shed a tear or get angry over s
Ah the magic of the irish people and their story telling skills...bewitching they are rumored to be, when a good teller of tales is found, and such i believe is the case with Maeve Binchy herself.Evening Class and its 8 characters is another fine, if not perfect, example of Ms. Binchy´s qualities and skills in drawing a reader to her story like you would be drawn into a talk with a friend you haven´t seen in ages, but long to know how he/she is doing.
Δεν υπαρχουν επιθετα για να χαρακτηρισω αυτο που νοιωθω τωρα που τελειωσε αυτο το βιβλιο... οτι και να πω θα ειναι λιγο και δεν περιγραφεται. ποσο λυπαμαι που αργησα τοσο να την ανακαλυψω... ΔΕΝ ΣΧΟΛΙΑΖΩ ΤΠΤ
The real story begins when Nora, now known as "Signora," finally returns to Dublin and meets up with Aiden, a middle-aged, unhappily married Latin teacher, who wants to start an evening class for adults on Italian language and culture.
This new venture excites and energizes the dejected "Signora" and gives her a new lease on life.Like most of Binchy's novels, EVENING CLASS is almost like a series of short stories, skillfully woven together in such a way that they become inseparable from the main plot.
She takes ordinary characters, takes a long chapter to share their story, and then intertwines all their stories to make a satisfying book.Aiden Dunne is a hardworking Latin teacher in a working class neighborhood in Dublin, Ireland.
She hears that the evening school needs an Italian teacher and soon finds herself teaching over 30 students from various backgrounds not only the Italian language, but also the culture.
The stories of these students are at times sad, at other times a little frightening, but Ms. Binchy wraps up all the loose ends by the end of the book for a satisfying ending.
This is not one of Maeve's better books (Circle of Friends and Tara Road are better) but is a fun read and enjoyable. The plot centers around an Evening Class" (held in a small town in Ireland) teaching the Italian language and its culture to a group of Irish adults who need something new to jumpstart their engines and break up the monotony of their lives. Each student has his story and Binchy brings them all together and sews up every loose end using her superb easy style in a thoroughly entertaining way.
I admit I read this out of guilt, because my mom gifted it to me a few years ago (it's about a Latin teacher with Italophilia). Plus I needed something to pass the night in PDX. But the book was LOUSY. The characters had all the depth of a jello parfait. I do not understand the appeal of this writing at all.
I found the main character of Signora utterly detestable and pathetic, and therefore very difficult to warm to, and I felt that with many of the characters, such as Lou, a lot more development could have been made, as it wasn't quite explained how he was able to draw himself so easily out of a life of crime.
I felt my biggest complaint was that Binchy went to great efforts to include as many contemporary problems in society as possible (there was infidelity, rape, anorexia, learning difficulties, family difficulties, money insecurity and even a bit of organised crime!) when she could have spent more time developing the stories of some of her characters, character depiction definitely being one of her pluses as an author.

Ένα εξαιρετικό βιβλίο για το πώς ένας κοινός στόχος όπως η εκμάθηση ιταλικών, βοήθησε τους χαρακτήρες να βρουν τον σκοπό της ζωής τους, να επαναπροσδιορίσουν καταστάσεις, να αγαπήσουν εκ νέου και να γίνουν φίλοι χωρίς να υπολογίσουν την διαφορετικότητα και το παρελθόν του καθενός! Όποιος το διαβάσει θα λατρέψει την Ιταλία όπως και οι ήρωες του βιβλίου!
Characters:The characters and their evolution are lovely. Some grow and discover themselves. Some like Mrs.Dunne are sidelined once they serve their purpose. There are characters who find love, acceptance, adventure. There's a little something for everyone to relate to.Story: The individual stories are woven separately and combined until it all comes together in the end to make a full picture. The pace does not lag and the use of language and history make you want to travel to Italy or atleast learn the language.
It was a delightful read. I felt like living inside each of the character's own dreams and wishful thinking. It was noteworthy to think that Maeve Binchy is very much concerned with every character's right to a private and distinguishable life. It was also marvelous how she can prove through one single read how small the world really is. The plot of the novel had me guessing all throughout whether who was and who is. It was an enjoying classy tale of love and friendship.
Very interesting story of several Dubliners who enroll in an Italian evening class. Binchy has a marvelous way of tying their lives together. Everyone seems to be linked in some way. I followed the story eagerly, and was very satisfied with the outcome.
This was the first Maeve Binchy book that I ever read. I was hooked. I love how she interweaves her characters and their lives within the novel and even between other novels. It’s like meeting up with old friends again. A wonderful storyteller!
gerçekten başka mıydı?
First let me say, if you are going to read Maeve binchy books, you must do so in chronological order. I read Heart and Souls before this, and recognized some the characters. So I knew what some of this story was going to be based on what happened in a later book.I enjoyed the story and liked how the lead up was with a few of the plot lines intertwining. Though the end felt a bit rushed but enjoyed it and wanted to know what happened all the same.
Evening Class is a beautiful book filled with true-to-life characters, like only Maeve Binchy can create. Binchy explores each person's hopes and dreams, successes and failures, while weaving them into the central story of an evening Italian class started by Aidan Dune and taught by Signora, who is the "mysterious" one. A good read!
How can you not love a Maeve Binchy story ... other than trying to keep all the characters straight, very enjoyable read.
In the libraries and the bookstores and then I found her name in a Goodreads group for the Popsugar Reading Challenge.
If I had read this book at any other point of time in my life I wouldn’t have liked it as much as I did.
I just happened to be reading this and I loved it!
At any other point in my life, I would have found a million things wrong about this book and would have probably rolled my eyes at it.
This is the whole point of reading, right?
