https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159830.The_Thistle_and_the_Rose
This is the story of Margaret of Scotland, older sister of King Henry VIII of England.
You generally don't see too many books about her, so this one was rather refreshing.
She had children of her own, James V of Scotland, by her first husband James IV, Lady Margaret Douglas, by her 2nd husband Angus Douglas, & 2 by her third & last husband, Henry(Harry) Stuart, but it never gave their names or what happened to them in the story.I also learned that this author is but one of three pen names the ACTUAL author used to write under, & she was VERY prolific.
He'll love me and be faithful to me, unlike the last guy.
He'll love me and be faithful to me, unlike the last two.
" Also throw in that she attempts to lead Scotland based on who she's horny for this month, and it's just craziness.The book is historical fiction, and I know nothing about English history, so I don't know how much of the lustiness of the Kings and Queens is well-known fact (How many men did she really sleep with?
Although the historical fiction tends to focus more on the romance side, and less on the political side, it has enough political backstabbing and wheeling-and-dealing that it doesn't feel like an all-out Romance novel.
Margaret Tudor (Henry VIII’s older sister) was sent to Scotland when she was 12 or 13 to marry King James IV.
I don’t remember reading anything about Margaret before (though it appears that I have, but it was a number of years ago), so this was quite interesting.
It’s funny, with all I’ve read about Henry (and a little bit about their youngest sister, Mary), I always thought Margaret was kind of boring, but Plaidy made her interesting to me.
Of the few by Plaidy I’ve read, this might be one of my favourites.
She cannot bear to have a mere Earl hurt her pride by having a mistress instead being happy with the Queen Mother of Scotland's young King James V, so she stirs up controversy by asking for a divorce.
At one point in the novel, he even seems to believe that a brother and sister cannot ask for a divorce, and that since he's a man, Rome should grant his instead of hers!
Princess Margaret, sister of Henry VIII, marries King James IV of Scotland at the age of 13.
She becomes Queen of Scots and seals a peace agreement between England and Scotland.The story goes: he is so handsome, she is so beautiful, and everything is so peachy until she finds out about his mistresses and illegitimate children.
The story sounds like repetition, he continues to conquest mistresses and she continues to get angry at his dallying.
“She marries in secret to satisfy her lust before her husband had been dead a year.”The story and characters are flat, not much depth.
Not in the same league as Gregory or Weir but I like learning about the loves and losses of Margaret Tudor, Henry's sister. Those Tudors!!!!! They must have been sooooo indulged as children. She married 3 times divorced once. Can't really think of anything wrong about the writing. Would read her again.
However, far too much emphasis on sex and Margaret's love life for my liking.
Not that there was anything graphic, it was just tiresome for her falling for one handsome man after another, and incessantly being reminded of how 'passionate' she was.As such, it was hard to sympathize or relate to her as a whiny, sex-mad overgrown spoiled brat who seemed incapable of realizing the damaging consequences of her own decisions, and having spent most of her life chasing men- yet always wanting men to 'love' her for who she was.
This is a historical novel about King Henry VIII's older sister Margaret who is married off to Scotland.
I'd read about Mary, the younger one, before, so i was interested to read more about this sister.
There's so many books, movies and shows about them just because if they existed now, they'd be the hit reality show.
Margaret seemed even more like her brother than mary did, she did pretty much the same things with the same motivation, only she happened to be female.
I feel like maybe this book was dramatacized a bit more than it should have been, writing only ok, but it was entertaining, i liked it.
The POV in this story is weird and off-putting. It felt disjointed and skippy feeling. It felt like it was a checklist of scenes that needed to put in, not a real narrative. It was an example of telling, not showing. I also found the characters really annoying. They didn't feel like people, but tropes that were repeated over and over (all of the husbands seemed to have the exact same childish personality). There was no difference between them.
Looking back through teenage reading journals - my auntie had given this for christmas and I seem to have liked it.
On the other hand, the story reads more like a transcription of ordered events than a novel read for pleasure.
In this account, Margaret turned desperate fast and lived desperately until she died---always in need of a man's attentions.
To sum it up, there was a lot of summing it up in this story.
Lots of flippant attitudes: So and so child died---oh well, there would be others.I don't know that I'll actively seek out this author again but if I come across something that seems interesting, I might talk myself into it.
The main problem I had with this book was that there felt like there wasn't any real depth to the characters, they were all archetypical.
The men were pretty much all the same and in the end and I felt a bit like Albani.
I understand that when writing about a time period from 500 years ago and especially when writing about women, there was a real lack of information.
It means that writers rely heavily on what little facts they do have and in the process, they as well as we do, forget that at one time these were real people.
That 'Jean Plaidy' was a pen mane for Victoria Holt explains a lot about this book.
I gave the book four stars because the author's writing mechanics were very good.
It was a soft read never delving too deeply into the lives of the kings and queens and other nobles who made the world go 'round.
Did any queen ever walk off the deep end for love's sake more than she did?
I think there was too much inbreeding betwixt and between the royals which would explain, in part, the foolish mistakes the main characters made.Thank you (posthumously), Ms. Plaidy, for a good read.
Thoroughly enjoyed this book.
It reflects her struggles, hopes and many disappointments along the way.
The book portrays her as desperately wanting love in her life and never achieving it.
It shows her difficult struggles in trying to obtain divorces, claim regency of her son and what an exhausting life she had (although much of it was caused by her imo).
It did seem that the book went at a nice pace but then near the end it was a race to the finish and I don't know why but I loved the book as I seem to do with all Jean Plaidy novels.
Being a woman in the 16th century guaranteed a hard life; your job was to marry and have children, hopefully many boys. Margaret, a princess of England, grew up to become the wife of the king of Scotland, who wanted sons and heirs to his throne. Being a woman was tough, as Margaret found out.
Enjoyable I enjoyed reading this. To me, it was a quick read. I always wanted to know more or what next. I did feel like it was hard to know how much time elapsed between things. I felt bad for her. All she wanted was to be loved and cherished.
I've only read one other book based around Margaret Tudor (Philippa Gregory) and this was better overall. It was a quick read and Plaidy does a really good job with the third person perspective in her novels. There were some issues with grammar but otherwise a decent read.
Wonderful Loved this tale of Margaret! Learned some interesting things about her that I did not know, and some things about Henry the VIII...not surprised he was a control freak with her too.
Standard Jean Plaidy
I really enjoy reading this author and this book did not disappoint.
Te creative writing for the brother and sister (King Henry & Queen Mary of Scotts) was a little over the top. I believe there was a similar situation but the explanation of why was not to my liking.
I love her booksWell developed characters taking you back to the Tudor reign. This is Margaret's story and like her brother king Henry VIII she is strong willed.
Always a good read!I have always enjoyed reading Jean Plaidy; she never misses! I am considering which one to read next! Thank you!
good bookenjoyed the book more than I thought I would. interestingly written and imaginative. Will look forward to more written by this author.
Very interesting. Now I need to find the other books by Jean Plaidy.
As much as i didn't want to write a review, i had to.Despite the fact i have NEVER read from this author, i really enjoy Tudor History.
(Yes, I am a grammar Nazi)The facts were up to date, but i found myself wanting to know the dates that each event happened for it would help me improve my knowledge for history better.Besides that, i found Margret to be a horny person.
She got mad over the fact that husbands all had bastard children.
*SPOILERS*I also got mad at the fact that she married one year after her first husband, the king, died.
For her time she was a fabulous figure, writing despite not obtaining a full education, dedicating her life to transforming solid books of heavily compacted history into novels with enough breathing room to garner interest; without being fluffy, as historical fiction these days has a tendency of being.
However I cannot help but compare this to her Eleanor of Acquitaine instalments, a woman who also had many lovers, but was written as strong, powerful and shrewd.That being said I sympathised with Margaret's plight, consistently betrayed by the men in her life, often both her and her children playing the roles of political pawns, an unfortunate product of the times.
Having recently read Mary, Queen of France, I thought I’d read about Henry VIII’s other overshadowed, sister, Margaret.
The Thistle and the Rose was not nearly as enjoyable.
Margaret was a completely unsympathetic character.
She plays England against France so often, it’s dizzying.In general, I found Plaidy’s writing lacking.
I never felt emotionally vested in any character; they were all very one-dimensional.
Plaidy even delivers some eye-rolling irony when Henry VIII so adamantly protests Margaret’s desire for divorce as sinful and shameful.
While I liked the history and ascertaining Margaret’s place in the Tudor legacy, I was relieved when I finally finished the book.
Certainly marrying the English princess to the Scottish king did not work that way in young Margaret's lifetime.
Perhaps, as tutor to one of the illegitimate sons of James IV, it was Margaret whom Erasmus had in mind.This novel humanizes history as we see the events through the eyes of the 12 year old princess.
I suspect he did not.In the same light, Margaret's son is her main concern, her daughter is not much mentioned until the end when it seems she had been in England most of the time.While it's a fast read there's a lot of excess verbiage.
An interesting read.
I really didn't know a lot about Margaret's life.
According to Plaidy's interpretation, Margaret was a pawn in the royal court, constantly searching for true love and never really succeeding.
It seemed she was constantly in and out of love which got a little frustrating.
Interesting to read about Henry's disappointment in his sister's affairs of the heart considering all the marital complications he had.
Overall, a good book....I was interested in the story and wanted to know how everyone would fare in the end.
