https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/553832.The_Complete_Plays_of_Gilbert_and_Sullivan
I also am a fan of Gilbert and Sullivan being the young age of 32.
I was first introduced to Gilbert and Sullivan when i was probably 10 or 11 when one evening I was staying up late as it was summer vaca and turned on disney channel.
I do have biographies on these two so wasn't near as important as some might need to have them but also would have been interesting to see what the first night of the operettas were like in the introduction as well.
All in all a great reference and must have for any Gilbert and Sullivan fan.
Often uproarious, this book is a gem. I suggest you read it while listening to recordings of the plays to get the full measure of the talent involved in creating these treasures. If you like the parodies of Monty Python, you will love Gilbert and Sullivan. Such wit! I only wish that the public had an appreciation of opera instead of the aversion usually elicited by the genre. If they only knew the enjoyment derived, they would demand the frequent performance of these comedies!
The world of musical comedy would be a very different place if these two men hadn’t met and collaborated on this series of comic opera masterpieces.
Most of them are still standards and are regularly performed, with the exception of the first work, “Thespis, or, the Gods Grown Old,” for which – inexplicably – the music was lost, and the last two, “Utopia (Limited),” and “The Grand Duke.” If you are any kind of a fan of Gilbert & Sullivan, you should search the used book stores and, hopefully, find a copy of this book.
I bought the soundtrack and then viewed Topsy-Turvy (a retelling of how G&S got to creating The Mikado).
I bought that album as well.
I have since bought another three G&S operettas (the recorded albums) but I found some of the singing made it difficult to understand the lyrics.
Lyrics, of course, help you understand the gist of the play/musical/whatever.
You can watch the play and follow right along.
You can listen to the album and follow right along.
I now know the lyrics to these operettas and enjoy singing them out loud in my car in traffic.
This is a collection of all the Gilbert and Sullivan operas performed at the Savoy Theatre with the original D'Oyly Carte company. It is perhaps lacking an introduction and some biographical information, but nevertheless reading Gilbert's lyrics provided several highly amusing evenings next to my record player. I also recommend the Sky Arts five-part series 'Gilbert and Sullivan: A Motley Pair' which delves into the story behind each opera and the gradual rise and fall of Gilbert and Sullivan's working relationship.
4 stars for the content but only 3 stars for this particular Kindle edition (from Project Gutenberg) which suffered from formatting problems.This book contains the 14 operas that Gilbert and Sullivan collaborated on. I have rated the individual plays/operettas separately.
A delightful collection of the full texts from all the Savoy operas. A must for any G&S fan!
No Savoyard should be without this. This is the version I own, but anyone who's done G&S needs a copy of the librettos. Such fun.
Didn't get as far as I wanted, but will definitely be picking it up again. Great study material for potential playwrights.
Finally finished this volume. Very interesting to read through the whole plays where before I only had experience with singing a few of the choruses. Fun and random and raucous.
always fun to watch and work on! I was Chorus in Mikado and still remember the whole experience with happy memories!
The best light opera ever written.
Love these but it really helps if you can sing along. If you don't know the music, doubt these would be enjoyed as much.
The plays are almost as good as the albums and better than some stage presentations I have seen.
