https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1030303.The_Bells_of_Nagasaki
While this remained vibrant in our hearts, even if our exterior circumstances were wretched, we had no problems.’ --Dr. Takashi NagaiDr. Nagai, nuclear physicist, dean of radiology department in the University of Nagasaki medical school and head of Eleventh Medical Corps (since the war began) although himself wounded August 9, 1945 when his beloved city was hit, still managed to gather together a group of doctors, nurses and students who selflessly tended the sick and dying in the days following the bombing.
After American planes drop leaflets informing the Japanese that they dropped an atom bomb (so surrender already), Nagai instantly whirls into thought about the implications, both scientifically and to the victims.
However, there are always very human moments to which we all can relate, such as when the little team is on the road back to a farmer's house and a fart starts a series of jokes, with each person capping the next.I'd think this would be the mandatory companion to A Song For Nagasaki because I was surprised to find how much Paul Glynn soft-pedaled Nagai's reaction to Japan's unconditional surrender.
I am not religious. I don't have faith in anything except simple kindness. Neither do I understand nationalism/patriotism. I had trouble with large portions of this teeny book.
Meski terjemahan yang kurang bagus tapi saya dapat menangkap keseluruhan kisah ini dan memberi inspirasi. Tidak ada melankolis berlebihan yang Anda harapkan dari buku true story, namun kembangkan imajinasi lebih tinggi lagi, kita akan dapat melihat akibat bom atom tsb. Buku ini bukan mengisahkan mengenai saat itu saja, tapi penulis menyampaikan sesuatu untuk masa depan^^b
But only a physician who had been studying the effects of radiation would have been able to write such a specific and accurate account of the immediate hours/days after the bombing of Nagasaki.
It's a little frustrating to read the parts where he still believed that the dangers of radiation were being overestimated and was encouraging people to move back into the city of Nagasaki immediately, when we know now that there are dangerous effects that linger after the initial exposure.
So in that way, it was important to read, to get the context and perspective of the victims of the bomb, not just with the added benefits of hindsight that most writing has.
Dr. Nagai's moving personal account of the atomic bombing of Nagasaki's Urakami prefecture should be read by all those who profess that atomic warfare is viable.
His retelling of his experience with atomic wasteland shows the human cost of the explosion of a low yield nuclear weapon.
The people's of the world must state in the strongest terms possible of the dangers of a new nuclear weapons race as well as the risk of nuclear energy proliferation in the Middle East by the USA, Russia and other countries by the building of nuclear power generation stations.
As Dr. Nagai's plea that Nagasaki be the last atomic wasteland in the history of the human race.
A first hand account of the bombing of Nagasaki, Japan that ended the second world war. This is The story of a doctor who was caught in the blast. And what he learned and the change of heart he experienced.It was tough getting this book. Apparently it's out of print. Though I would highly recommend it being republished. I definitely recommend reading it if you can get your hands on it.
3.5
يحكي دكتور نجائي وهو طبيب ياباني تخصص في الاشعةكان يحيا في نجازاكي أثناء إلقاء القنبلة الذرية عليها، يحكي دكتور نجائي عن الدمارالذي حل بالمدينة وعن الاصابات التي لا توصف بين البشر يحكي قصة عودةالانسانية إلى الهمجية الأولى.يحكي عن الارادة والعزيمة والأمل رغم كل شيء، يحكي قصة صمود قد تكون فريدةمن نوعها في تاريخ الانسانية جمعاء يحكي عن صبر أمة وشعب لم يصبه اليأس وإنمااندفع بكل الأمل الموجود في هذا العالم لكي يبني ما دمرته الحرب.يحكي لنا فنتألم لما مر به اخواننا في الانسانية نبكي من وحشية بعض من يٌنسبون خطأإلى بني البشر ونبكي معه على ما وصل إليه حال العالم؛ ثم يحكي عن العزيمة عنالصبر وعن قوة الإرادة وعن الأمل في غد أفضل..
But the blue mountains are immovable and the white clouds come and go."This was Takashi Nagai's advice a few weeks after the atomic bomb was dropped on Nagasaki.
the blinding white light, darkness blacker than night caused by a cloud of debris covering the sun, the coming of a red tinted light, a drop in temperature, the invisible wind, the instant disappearance of a world known...
the temperature has suddenly dropped." Shiro's voice was thoughtful."If the sun explodes, what happens to the earth?" Now it was the anxious voice of Nurse Tsubakiyama."It's the end of the world," said Choro with resignation.They remained silent and waited.
One of the most striking parts of the book is his "Funeral Address for the Victims of the Atomic Bomb." In one amazing paragraph in that paragraph Dr. Nagai asks, rhetorically,  "Is there not a profound relationship between the destruction of Nagasaki and the end of the war?
107).Dr. Nagai completed his book in August 1946, just a year after the bombing, but it was not published until 1949.
The book was translated by William Johnston, an Irish Catholic missionary to Japan, and published in English in 1984.
He and his wife were converts to Catholicism and ardent Christians.This little book is an unusual mix of memoir of the events of the day of the bombing and for subsequent days, scientific discussion of the bomb and the effects of radiation, and Christian reflection on the meaning of the bomb and the need to strive towards world peace.
Nagai lost his wife in the bombing but he built a small hut on the site of his former home and lived there until 1951, meditating and writing many essays and other works on medicine, war, peace and religion.
I read this book in one sitting.
I just happened to be visiting a Buddhist temple for a meditation weekend and I thought it would be a good book to take.
It certainly gave me a lot to meditate on.
It was fascinating to read a first hand account of the events from a scientist with an analytical mind.
I admit to not knowing much about the event.
This was the first account of war that I could bring myself to read and I admit to it being quite an emotional experience.
This courageous memoir, penned in one of the last few years of the author's life, is an excellent perspective on the atomic bombing of Nagasaki.
Especially since Nagasaki is the lesser-known of the two Japanese cities that were victimized by the atomic bomb, I'd recommend this book to anyone who wants to be educated about the events.
Nagai was a doctor, scientist, and avid researcher, so he is able to explain the thinking of WWII citizens of Japan very well.
His dispassioned analysis allows the reader's emotions to swell up and fill the void, while still reading between the lines to see Nagai's own grief and eventual acceptance.
Strange book. Written by a deeply religious doctor who witnessed the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, it freely switches from first person to third, from a literary style to a memoir style to clinical, scientific examinations. At times it's poetic and profound, at times it's bizarre and embarrassing. Indeed, it seems as if it was written by 3 or 4 different people. And while it's immensely entertaining, the condescending Christian arrogance that stealthily creeps in toward the end ruins it. Bummer.
Takashi Nagai is a messenger of forgiveness, peace, Providence, authentic religion, and the redemptive value of suffering. His view of the atomic attack on Nagaski (which claimed his wife's life and almost his own) is revolutionary, unforgettable, and a view most of us have never considered before. In the late 1940s this work introduced the virtues of faith, hope, and love to a bitter and demoralized Japan in the years following WW2 and should be required reading for all of us living in the modern nuclear age. Want to see Christianity applied? Read this book!
I think this book can be summed up from the post-it my coworker left on this book when I left it on my desk on my way somewhere: "Excellent Text". I'm not sure if he was serious or if he has read the book but it was an excellent treatment of the mindset of those living in Nagasaki as well as their experiences right after the bomb. It helped explain a lot in the book I am currently reading about Chernobyl.
An extremely moving first person account of Nagaski immediately before and after the atomic bomb was dropped. Perhaps because the author was a doctor and a scientist, the tone is rather objective and detached and written at least in part in an effort to reflect on the observed effects of atomic radiation on the people who lived nearby. Definitely worth reading, but rather depressing.
Moving, insightful and hear trenching read of a dedicated doctor who risks his live to aid others after the dropping of the bomb, and the overwhelming love of humanity that allows him to share his strongest desire for love and peace in the world. Should be a must-read for everyone in school.
Dropping those two atomic bombs on Aug 6 and 9 came at a terrible price, anyone reading this book can agree. Anything to do with the atomic bomb, or Nagasaki, or anything like that has always held a morbid interest for me: I was born exactly 50 years later.
Perfect. Disturbing, but only because it is honest. A book everyone should read for the message all should heed. Not a light read, but an engaging one, and a necessary one as well. I join with the citizens of Nagasaki in their prayer for peace.
Beautiful and sparse prose describing the horrendous aftermath of the atomic bombing in Nagasaki.
Similar to Night which I previously reviewed I think this is a book that cannot be rated. I would however recommend this book and think it is a very poetic and terrifying true tale.
i'm pretty sure my heart has broken.
I read a German translation of this book. The introduction was badly translated but the rest was quite o.k. Incredible what they must have suffered!
