https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17212231-inferno
And I’ve never hocked a spitball in my life.*I say this as a former academic dweeb myself, so don’t go crying into your Cheerios, Dan.**The Dan Brown Formula: Something mysterious/creepy/violent/potentially life-changing happens, setting into motion a chain of events that can only be stopped/uncovered for what they really are by our Protagonist, an intelligent middle-aged gentleman who happens to be an expert in his field, but also in the specific areas necessary to saving the world/uncovering a mystery/solving puzzles laid out for some unknown reason by a shady Antagonist (more on him later).

The authorities need our protagonist's help to solve a puzzle left by our instigator just before he died, which has some clue in to the nature of our ticking time bomb.Meanwhile, unbeknownst to him, a secret organization has dispatched an assassin who must fulfill tasks that would have huge social ramifications all throughout the world.
or did he do something that actually benefits the whole world.--Is Inferno different from other Dan Brown books you ask?
In fact, depending on how many of Brown's books you have read, you can see the twists coming based on the number of pages left.tl;dr: Don't waste your time
Lasciate ogni speranza, voi ch’entrate. Or something. Statue of Dante by Enrico Pazzi, Piazza Santa Croce, FlorenceWhen I took this picture a couple of months ago, I thought Dante’s dour expression must be because he was pondering the horrors of hell. Now I think it’s because he was dwelling on the ignominy of having his masterpiece turned into this Dan Brown novel.By the fourth book in the series, the formula has been well-established: Robert Langdon, the intrepid Harvard professor and “symbolo
Now I think it’s because he was dwelling on the ignominy of having his masterpiece turned into this Dan Brown novel.By the fourth book in the series, the formula has been well-established: Robert Langdon, the intrepid Harvard professor and “symbologist,” must race against the clock to decode a series of obscure clues left by a madman to save humanity from destruction.
(hide spoiler)]Brown seems fixated on this statue of Hercules in the Palazzo Vecchio.
It’s just a prolonged scavenger hunt (view spoiler)[that turns out to be pointless (hide spoiler)] designed to show off all the places Brown researched.
For me the light Dan shed on this problem really scared the hell out of me.and encrusting it with Dante's Inferno wasn't really helping but to increase the fear of the future...Actually that made me a bit confused and somehow taking side with the 'villain' in this novel...it was a serious dilemma , I didn't know how I really want this novel to end..But Dan Brown really know how to make a suitable ending, as I loved his ending in his Debut Novel 'Digital Fortress' cause let's admit that ending a bomb in the last 3 seconds is silly ending unless it's done smartly and perfect...I won't say more about the plot, since I think telling even the tiniest bit of it would be a bit of spoiler of the thrilling novel.----------------------The Symbols*********Though it's different since the very early beginning...as Dan Brown choice was of work of literal, as he said at the Illustrated Edition preface..Yet it still packed with Historical, Symbols and Art references The splendid tour/chase in the early morning of Florence..The amazing perfect choice of Venice to be a metaphor for the crises of over population.
She noted that renowned author Dan Brown tends to get his tenses confused, loves to put identifiers in front of his characters’ names, and is inordinately fond of ellipses and loud punctuation such as exclamation points, question marks and interrobangs.Why is that?!Oh yes, and he loves italics, which pop up all over the place, not always readily identifiable with one particular character.CHAPTER 4The practically unknown reviewer picked up her copy of Inferno by Dan Brown, scanning its mysterious cover with the picture of the sage she now knew to be internationally famous poet Dante (c.

Yes, I had read a lot of disparaging comments about Brown’s writing, but I pushed them aside, figuring his books must be at least entertaining.
Brown also has the annoying tendency to tell you how brilliant and amazing his characters are ALL THE TIME, but he never really shows you why they are extraordinary.
Brown gives a Humanities lecture for every museum Langdon goes to (even when his characters are running for their lives).
If you think too much about it, you’ll spend all your time rolling your eyes and fall out of your chair.In the end, I’m amazed that Brown is a bestselling author.
I really enjoyed this book.
Thou personally I think it's a bit different than the other previous three books.
The other three books have similarities in having a story plot that creating a really blur line between history and fiction.
But in this fourth book, the history is like the inspiration of the fiction story, but I still liked it and gave it 3.5 stars.I really enjoyed the thrill and excitement of Langdon adventure.
Thou it's not amazing, but still worth to read.
:)-----------------------------------------------------I am just wishing that this book will be better than The Lost Symbol..
(B) 74% | More than SatisfactoryNotes: Lucky Robert Langdon, always adventuring with sexy, brainy women awed by his knowledge of art and symbology.
Lasciate ogne speranza, voi ch'intrateorAbandon all hope, ye who enter here Dante and Virgil approach the entrance to Hell From the WorldofDante.org The heat is on. There is, of course, a deadline. A mad scientist of a Dante super-fan, who takes theatrical delight in referring to himself as The Shade, would like to bring about a great renaissance for humanity, a reawakening similar to the one that occurred following the Black Plague. As with that earlier event, The Shade, a Batman villain if ev
Or do we find ourselves wandering off?Is it fast-paced?Do we care about the characters?Is it fun?In short, does this make a good beach read?InformativeDoes it teach us something new?Is the information interesting?Does it address some larger issue, one of actual significance?Does it make sense?ENTERTAINMENTDoes the story engage our attention?
(on the other hand, there actually is a lot here that does remind one of video game action, so I take that back) But if you are fascinated with old world history, art and architecture, Dante, the Black Death, Malthusian concerns, and the potential impact of a large human die-off, then Si, molto.
علينا أن نعترف بشيءروايات دان براون تحمل غالبا قيمة أدبية محدودةوأنت تنشدها طلبا للمتعة والمعرفةوهذه اللذة العقلية التي تتمثل في محاولاتك المتكررة لحل اللغز تلو اللغزوالصحبة الممتعة للغاية مع روبرت لانغدون بساعته الميكي ماوس وقلبه الطيب وعقليته الفذةكل ذلك في إطار مشوق مبهر غني بالمعلومات مصقولة الأحداث بالعلم والتكنولوجيا والأساطير والتاريخهذه هي ميزة براون الكبرى;;;;;;;;;;;يعتمد براون دائما على ثقافة مضاعفة المفاجئةوقد تعامل معها هنا ببراعة حقالم أخمن ما سيقوم به خصوصا بما يتعلق بسييناوهذه الم
علينا أن نعترف بشيءروايات دان براون تحمل غالبا قيمة أدبية محدودةوأنت تنشدها طلبا للمتعة والمعرفةوهذه
Just like the previous stories in this series, the entire book is about 24 hour long mystery/thriller.
From the very first page, a chain of events starts to take place at a very fast pace.Loved reading the book, just like Robert Langdon's previous journies.
Some of them were so descriptive that at times it felt like reading a brochure.
The description of various historic places probably could've been shortend a little bit.The thriller never ends though.
A great read overall.January 15, 2013It's coming out on May and I can't believe this book wasn't added to Goodreads already.
I probably have some sort of surface-level trait like 'I'm really smart' or 'I'm barren' to inform my 'character', but really I'm just totally into you.""Thank you human woman," Aaron replied.
I love a story with net zero stakes.""Then you're gonna love this."And then, the woman who we all thought was beautiful and smart and cool, pulled a gun on Aaron Burdette.CHAPTER 12 MILLION"Just kidding!" shouted the woman, immediately throwing her gun in the nearby Hudson River.
"Well at least this will be the only time that happens."If only Aaron could know ...
I've spent the past few years writing a book on Inferno, immersing myself in Dante's Commedia, and was looking forward to a fun read.
At times it reminded me of the old Batman episodes with the caped crusader pulling off an implausible escape from the bad guys every 5 minutes.On the plus side, Brown does give Dante a pretty good treatment for the reader not familiar with the Commedia.
On the minus side, the book is replete with the usual anti-Catholic bigotry (although not as bad as Da Vinci Code).
To be very honest, I had a lot of expectations from this book and Dan Brown does not disappoint. I'm not entirely happy with the book; the second half of the book lacked certain things and was not quite as interesting as the first part. The research work for this book is done very painstakingly and it shows. 4.5 stars.
I considered giving this two stars but then I realized there really wasn't anything I liked about it.
As a result of this, I wasn't invested in any of them or the story.
I certainly don't understand why it took so many pages to tell this very mediocre story.
As it usually goes with Dan Brown books this read like a tour of ancient buildings in ancient cities and while these would have been great to explore on a tour in person or even read in a guide book, Brown does a terrible job of interweaving the story and these 'attractions' Would I recommend this to anyone?
"Abandon hope all ye who enter here"  ~ Dante's Divine Comedy.(Oh, Mr.Brown...the irony and the accuracy)----------------------------------------------------The last Dan Brown novel that I recall reading and enjoying to the hilt was Angels & Demons. So, when I proudly hefted his new tome  INFERNO  home from the book store, I was all:And then, barely twenty pages had passed by and my buoyant emotions pretty much went The Little Mermaid Way:The author has decided to morph into a dry-as-day-ol
So my reaction at the complete absence of a storyline began at a mild:laboured along at a steady:and eventually escalated into a full-blown:But wait, there was more…200 Pages on and we are still sifting through a sea of unnecessary facts, vapid musings of the characters and brick-by-brick descriptions of Italy’s hotspots.And still, no plot.I am getting a tad snitty and mighty snotty now, Mr.Brown.
It’s alive!!Hallelujah!But wait, I spoke too soon.What you saw and read and believed is NOT what you saw and read and believed.Yes, big shock there, Prof.Langdon.On a parallel (but seemingly wholly unrelated) note, is the plot progressing?Nope.
بهتر است کمی مثل «رابرت لانگدن» احساس کنیمس: به نظرم بیشتر تحقیقات خود را در ایتالیا انجام داده‌ اید، به نظر کار مفرحی می‌آید؟ ج: البته از گفتن این جمله نفرت دارم، ولی باید اعتراف کنم، که به واسطه ی رمان «رمز داوینچی»، به جاهایی دسترسی پیدا کردم، که قبلا خوابش را هم نمی‌دیدم.
ولی هیچ وقت نمی‌خواستم درباره ی خودش داستان بنویسم، چون وقتی کسی مثل او، این‌گونه جهنم را به صورت زنده و روشن تعریف می‌کند، اختراع یک «جهنم» دیگر برای خواننده ی اثر او بسیار مفید است.
To all the folks who rate a book before they've read it, skewing the ratings for everyone...go to Amazon with all the other flamers. Leave our ratings alone.
“Just because the human mind can't imagine something happening, doesn't mean it won't.”3/5 StarsAnother typical Dan Brown book.
But since I last read a Dan Brown novel a few years have passed and I've read lots of amazing books.
But what did I expect when I decided to read a book called Inferno, really.4.
(view spoiler)[-"I'm too old for you." -"Yeah, true."-"Let's kiss anyway." -"Yes okay, you're the white male protagonist and even though you're nearly twice my age and our friendship is completely platonic, I'm the female side character and the stereotypical attraction I feel for you forces me to add sexual tension to the last 4 pages.
In some distant, alternate life, Robert Langdon might even be someone she could be with."From then on all I could think of was what a complete sell out Dan Brown was.
how very original) he has to ask her half a dozen times, "You did, I must have overlooked that" when she points out that they discussed it the night before.
There is no clear picture of him or his personality.
How dare Dan Brown assume that everyone has read the previous books.
i think amazon and Google play need to sort out pricing on ebooks they are both asking £8.99 ,with no overheads, no printing costs no,logistics and all they have to do is store it on a server and let customer's download it.
and they say ebooks are the future, not at asda .update 14,05,2013it arrived this morning ,I don't think it's going to fit in the sd card slot on my kindle and how come you can never find a bookmark when you need one.
Read this years ago...
it's a great story and an intense and complex read.
Dan Brown doesn't let you down and you should definitely keep reading this series -- especially with the movie now coming out!
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Leave a comment and let me know what you think.
Thanks for stopping by.
Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Somehow, between then and now, he had managed to lose his clothing, his Mickey Mouse watch, and two days of his life.Dan Brown practically spells it out for us!EXHIBIT 2: The Sullying of the Harris Tweed JacketLangdon is crushed to find that his favorite Harris Tweed jacket (what all stereotypical Harvard professors wear) has been damaged and dirtied in his forgotten adventures.
(hide spoiler)] Obviously, the supposedly classy and cultured Harris Tweet jacket represents Bob Langdon.
I could refute some of the "facts" that Langdon presents about history, but that isn't as much fun as writing about ALL THE PEENS IN FLORENCE.
Kinda blah after the other Langdon entries. Getting a little used to the Langdon formula. Also, in the end it was not all that great of a story (in my opinion). Honestly, hard for me to believe they got another movie in the series out of this (I hope they changed a lot of it to make it more interesting! Hard to believe I just said I hoped they changed the story when making a movie - SACRELIDGE! )
3.5I’ve compiled a list for my review. Why it’s perfectly acceptable to compare Dan Brown novels with one night stands : 1.) The decision to pick up a Dan Brown book or a one night hookup comes down to the same thing- instant gratification. You pick it up knowing you’re going on a wild ride!2.) Waking up and seeing a Dan Brown book on your night stand almost makes you feel like you need a shower more than the morning after getting some strange. (I recommend a shower in both instances.)3.) There’
Why it’s perfectly acceptable to compare Dan Brown novels with one night stands :
1.)	The decision to pick up a Dan Brown book or a one night hookup comes down to the same thing- instant gratification.
You pick it up knowing you’re going on a wild ride!2.)	Waking up and seeing a Dan Brown book on your night stand almost makes you feel like you need a shower more than the morning after getting some strange.
من فلورنسا وكنائسها الرائعة ولوحاتها الشهيرة وانفاقها، الى البندقبة وكنائسها وساحاتها وتماثيلها الى تركيا ومتحف أيا صوفيا والقصر الغارق.قدرة هائلين لبراون لاستغلال هذه اللوحات والتحف ليمتعنا بمغامرة رائعة.وكالعادة استغلال الإثارة والتشويق في الاكتشافات وانتقال الحدث من موقع الى اخر لترك القاريء متلهفا لمعرفة الأحداث.وكالعادة فالأماكن واللوحات والتماثيل والمواقع حقيقية ومن الأفضل استخدام محرك البحث اثناء القراءة والاطلاع على المواقع للتمتع بما يكتبه هذا المؤلف العبقري.القصة تدور حول دانتي الشاعر الايطالي الشهير واستخدام تحفته "الكوميديا الإلهية" التي يستخدمها احد العلماء لإطلاق فايروس وعلى لانغدون اكتشاف موقعه من خلال الرموز وتحليل ابيات الشعر .يجب ان اقرأ الكوميديا الإلهية
He is aware that pretty blond-ponytail doctor, Sienna Brooks, is very pretty and tall and attractive, and that he (with Sienna in tow OF COURSE) should probably high-tail it out of the hospital when a spiky-haired, leather-wearing Consortium agent, Viantha, starts shooting at him.Thus ensues a chase across Italy and South-Western Europe as Langdon and the MYSTERIOUS, super-intelligent Sienna Brooks rush to figure out what his brain is hiding from him and plot twists pelt them helter-skelter, constantly changing the motives of the villains to make everything more MYSTERIOUS and SNEAKY.Under ordinary circumstances, I would never have picked this book up.
Brown is probably my top favourite author and I have loved each book that stars Robert as the main character.
I feel like with his fourth instalment of Langdon's Misadventures, he focuses a bit more on the history, backstory and architecture of Florence than his last book, The Lost Symbol.
Since I am only 18, sometimes the information was a bit overwhelming but it, in my opinion, didn't take away from the story.
I won't say more, least I give away something I didn't mean to, but I will say this: This book is a worthwhile read and an instant classic for those who have read Dan Brown before.
