https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21535271-the-slow-regard-of-silent-things
We worry if people will like it.
One of my biggest concerns is that despite my best efforts to spread the word, people will pick this book up thinking it's book three.
If you take a drink expecting milk and get orange juice instead, you're going to be unhappy.
Maybe I'll try him out..." And then they'll pick up this book and start reading.
First, if you haven't read my other books, you don't want to start here.
Second, even if you have read my other books, I think it's only fair to warn you that this is a bit of a strange story.
Here I will leave my thoughts on the novella, now having read it.There is no way I can review this without it looking like I am just piling on and confirming what I ranted about, but let me assure you, despite my wish that he finish the Kingkiller trilogy first, I really wanted to like this.
I think its possible that Rothfuss has become too enamored with his own celebrity, hosting shows about writing, penning children's books, running an annual charity drive, becoming involved in a myriad of Kickstarter projects, and now writing three short pieces in the Four Corners universe -- How Old Holly Came to Be, The Lightning Tree, and now this novella -- instead of finishing his long-overdue promised trilogy.
WOW. people are seriously fucking angry on here. It's hilarious how emotional people get over a release date. Guys, the dude is a really good writer. Not to mention he's a perfectionist. Nothing wrong with that in my opinion. Give him a break. He's got his own life separate from being a writer. Let him be.
I loved his first two books, but this is dire. There's absolutely no plot, it's just ~150 pages of a girl running around in the sewers doing Feng Shui and kissing inanimate objects.
It could be a memory, a place, a loved one, an emotion.Keep thinking.It's not the best analogy, but it's the best I can do because The Slow Regard of Silent Things is in a class all of its own and it evokes a response that no other book has managed to elicit from me.It is strange, it is gentle, it is true, it is heart-warming, it is poetic, it is pure Rothfuss.I don't know about you, but I fell in love with The Name of the Wind because of the attention to language and the sheer beauty of the story.
If you have a sexual fetish for descriptions of things moved from one place to another look out because Christmas has come fucking early.Now look- I'm as hardcore a Rothfuss Partisan as they come but by page fifty or so I started doing this...https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7FYTc...And I didn't stop until the Author's Note where Rothfuss assures you not to worry if you didn't like the story it's just because you weren't enough of a beautiful and unique snowflake.
Which is when this review went from 2 stars to 1.
So -er thanks for that.
“People are going to read this and be pissed.” -Patrick Rothfuss (2014)Well Pat was right. People are pissed. I’m pissed. I’ve been warned about this, several times in fact. I’ve been told that it's terrible. I’ve been told that it has no plot or any string of story. I’ve been told that it is utter garbage, and I disbelieved it. I consider myself a huge fan of Patrick Rothfuss. His first book was great and his second book was almost the same. His writing is fantastic, his world is superb and hi
I’ve been told that it has no plot or any string of story.
I’ve been told that it is utter garbage, and I disbelieved it.
There is no plot driver or reason to read; it’s a waste of time.
I didn’t like it one bit.Rothfuss mentions in the forward that this story is “different.” It clearly deviates from the standard expectations of his writing, but that’s a bad thing.
For those of you who don’t know the term, a trunk story is something you write, then when it’s finished you put the manuscript in the bottom of a trunk and forget about it.
3.5-4 stars?
note - the title alone gets five stars.
it is one of the most pleasant sounding and more meaningful titles i have ever come across.i was only going to rate this 3 or 4 stars.
its intriguing and follows a minor character from the main series that i was interested in getting to know better, but this novella is a little weird, somewhat disjointed, and not a whole lot happens.
i mean, theres a 10 page description of making soap… however, auri is a little weird, somewhat disjointed, a whole lot broken.
there will be many people who will not enjoy this, and i mean many.
(Since this is a novella, my review will be shorter than usual.)The Slow Regard of Silent Things is a novella about one of my favorite side character in the Kingkiller Chronicle series, the enigmatic and bizarre Auri and although it’s numbered Kingkiller Chronicles #2.5, the plot of this novella actually took place during chapter 7-11 of The Wise Man’s Fear and it’s centered on Auri’s daily life and gift searching for Kvothe.Rothfuss has said in the beginning of the book that this is different from his main series, a lot of readers won’t like it and yes, it’s completely different.
Not only is this the perfect opportunity to milk the public out of some of their hard-earned cash—the sheer number of preorders alone will no doubt make this a roaring success—but who knows, some morons may even think, “Oh my God, book three has finally arrived!”So what we’re left with here is an entirely pointless and plotless novella about an OCD girl mired in feng shui issues.
I know that you know better when you feel the need to preface your story with a warning,You might not want to buy this book.I know that’s not the sort of thing an author is supposed to say.
. .Second, even if you have read my other books, I think it’s only fair to warn you that this is a bit of a strange story.
*This is a copy/paste of my opinion on the release date and general money grabbing of Patrick Rothfuss, not a review of an unreleased book, dissimilar to what other people are able to do?*First let me say; before the release of the name of the wind, Patrick Rothfuss announced the completion of all three books, the three books in this trilogy were completed, the three books who would write for this series had been finished, he planned to release these books in one-year intervals, as he announced, completely understandable, it's almost tradition for not just authors but for many other forms of entertainment to release a new form or medium for enjoyment to release new models at yearly intervals.
4.5 filled with secrets starsI have wondered for two books now more about two very specific characters Auri and Bast and does this ever deliver on Auri. I longed to know more about what Auri does in the Underthing, how she ended up there and what else goes through her mind. One of my favorite things in The Name of the Wind and The Wise Man's Fear were Auri’s interactions with Kvothe things like:   “I have an apple that thinks it’s a pear. And a bun that thinks it’s a cat. And a lettuce that thin
One of my favorite things in The Name of the Wind and The Wise Man's Fear were Auri’s interactions with Kvothe things like: 
It is all Auri all the time and it is enough.DO NOT expect this to be a normal story because it isn’t.
A nice thing to have settled early on, his gift all ready with his visit days away.Auri eyed the buckle sharply.
The world grew stretched and tight.Auri drew a breath and opened up her eyes.
Her tiny feet upon the stone were bare.Auri stood, and in the circle of her golden hair she grinned and brought the weight of her desire down full upon the world.And all things shook.
Being one of Pat's beta readers I had the pleasure of reading this last month. I absolutely adored it. The way it's written, I highly advise you read it twice. You will pick up on a lot of interesting things the second time around. Everyone is definitely in for a treat. Rothfuss has never let me down. Absolutely a fabulous writer! I can't wait until it's out so I can discuss it!!
While this book is very aptly named. It was not for me. I really was not into slowly regarding silent things.
Wow! Wow?? What kind of magic is this? I feel like memorizing this book!Q:It was wise enough to know itself, and brave enough to BE itself, and wild enough to change itself while somehow staying altogether true. (c)Q:This story is for all the slightly broken people out there. I am one of you. You are not alone. You are all beautiful to me. (c)Q:And all things shook. And all things knew her will. And all things bent to please her. (c)
You try rebuilding a 1000 page novel from scratch without having any hiccups in a 'timely' fashion.For those of you who compare Pat to Brandon Sanderson and the like, just stop.
We Rothfuss apologists aren't defending him because, while we may like his books and personality, we have some semblance of empathy and understanding in our bodies.
- but he decided to take the time to polish this work, The Slow Regard of Silent Things, to tide you over because so many of you seem to be foaming at the mouth.
I should say that this book isn't for everybody, and Pat tells you this from the start.
Auri is adorable. I love the insight into her mind and her life. I like the way this builds up nicely to a lovely scene in The Wise Man's Fear. The descriptions of the underthing were amazing and very complex. It upset me when she went depressed. Her mind seems scrambled at times, a bit of obsessive compulsive disorder but she is adorable and I think highly important to the series overall. I think I love her. Yes I do.James xwww.youandibooks.wordpress.com
A lot of people are saying that this book isn't for everyone.
Even the author warns the reader ahead of time that this book is...different and may not be suited to their tastes or what they are used to.I beg to differ.
I'm sorry...but if you DO NOT like this book...well...it means you are dead inside!!
If you did not enjoy this story it means that YOU ARE WRONG.Its just that.
I will make people read The Kingkiller Chronicles just so that they can have the opportunity to submerse themselves into this short story as well!Good gravy, Mr. Rothfuss, I love you.
Ugh.The only thing I liked about this is the illustrations, and I didn't even look at them until after I finished listening to the audiobook. I enjoy seeing Auri every now and then in the Kingkiller Chronicles, but following her around throughout her daily activities was incredibly boring, and extremely strange.
I feel as if book 3 is being kept as a hostage,:"If i buy this book patrik might be encouraged to finish book 3.NOW that he's done with THAT project , he might finally say something about book 3.
NOW that his kickstarter project is halfway through, he MIGHT find time to finish the bloody book.
Maybe he's got other projects he would rather work on?I don't know , but i would be lying if i said i am not just a little bit angry with Mr. RothfussI would still buy all his books though...
I have long felt that novellas within a series were pointless, needless fluff driven by publishers to increase sales.
Listen to the man when he tells you in the foreword and the author's note, that you might not want to buy this book.
Auri was a favorite character of mine from the other two books in The Kingkiller Chronicles as I found her to be fascinating and quirky.
Sadly, after this novella I now find her to be a tedious, dull, exasperating character that I couldn't wait to get away from.-------------------------------------------Favorite Quote: N/A.First Sentence: When Auri woke, she knew that she had seven days.
Instead of directing all this hate why don't we thank a brilliant author for not only this beautiful novella but also thank him for his amazing works, and allow him whatever time he needs to put out a product that he feels is adequate.
I understand those who may not fully appreciate or downright hate it, to those who love it.
To hate this book is to not understand Auri as a character, or maybe I look at her through a different lens then others.
And thank you for allowing us to try to understand Auri.
Picking up The Slow Regard of Silent Things you are greeted by a number of warnings from the author:[b]“You might not want to buy this book.”…“I think it’s only fair to warn you that this is a bit of a strange story.”…“I don’t go in for spoilers, but suffice to say that this one is… different.
And that’s what Pat did.—THE REVIEWThe Slow Regard of Silent Things is a novella that focuses on Auri and her life down in the Underthing (the abandoned underground floors of the university we visit briefly in The Kingkiller Chronicles).As you will know, Auri is a character of mysterious origins.
This story is for all the slightly broken people out there.
You are all beautiful to me.When I first heard that Patrick Rothfuss was coming out with a book on Auri I was really excited.
Despite my huge disappointment in the second book Wise Man's Fear, Auri was one of my favorite characters and I was thrilled to learn more about her.This book is pure Rothfuss.
The story haunts.
A maul.I loved that everything was given a distinct personality and I loved the way that Auri interacted with her world.
It was a pure pleasure to read.
Honestly, after so many years of defending my unpopular opinion that his second book was a vapid, pretentious pile of crap where the only thing epic about it was how large of a dumpster fire it became, I’m pretty well done.
Young people these days, that’s anyone under 35 to me, seem to have a real problem with understanding the fact that just because you like something, it doesn’t mean that everyone has to.
You really need to learn to understand that just because I do not care for something that you love, I am not an idiot, or jealous of its creator, or any number of thousands of other absolutely stupid shit people have said to me over this.
Of the hundreds of stories I have read so far, this is the one that made me feel like it was written not just for me but about me: one of the broken people.THE SLOW REGARD OF SILENT THINGS chronicles one week, day by day, in which Auri is preparing for her next visit from Kvothe.
It was nearly unique in this regard, and while it was not always safe or kind, Auri could not help but feel a fondness for it."The world of the Kingkiller Chronicle (a world, according to this new book, called "Temerant") is obsessed with the names of things, but little does it know that there is a young woman living underneath the University who is all but a master namer herself, or at least Master Elodin's kindred spirit.
Honestly, it's useless - I don't feel like I've learned a single thing about Auri, whom I love as a character in the Kingkiller Chronicles, that I couldn't have already gathered, or that couldn't have been told in a much shorter five page short story.
It's not that it's boring, it's not that it's confusing, it's not that "it doesn't do what stories should do" (as Patrick Rothfuss says in the Endnote); it's that it's pointless and just doesn't add anything to the character or the world this takes place in.
I have friends who have gushed to me over both the Rupert Degas and the Nick Podehl versions.I'm not sure if those people will bothered by this one being read by Mr. Rothfuss himself, but I thought for this book at least, he makes for a good narrator.
I felt like we got some good insights to his character we didn't in the main novels.Auri is definitely one of my favorite characters in his books, so I was really excited to see he had a novella about her coming out.
German Review on GosuReviewsOnly for real hardcore fans. Ridiculous to demand 14-18 Euro for the ebook/hc. Not worth for me at all. The prose was usually good as you expect from Rothfuss, but the plot, if you can call it that, is very lackluster. It would have been really better off in an anthology as originally planed. I wouldn't be surprised if this will damage Rothfuss's reputation.
