https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40095501-the-sign-of-the-beaver
Once they've accomplished this, Matt's father is tasked with returning to their home town in Massachusetts to gather Ma, younger sister Sarah, and the new baby, so they may start their lives together in their new home.In order for Pa to travel to retrieve the rest of the family, he must leave behind Matt to protect their claim.And poor Matt is only 13, when he realizes that He was alone, with miles of wilderness stretching on every side.He's alone, without a good dog (theirs has died), and his only gun is stolen by a sketchy trapper in one of the very first chapters.Shit.Indians are around, and they're both bitter and bemused by this lonely white boy, defending his wood and mud castle.
When I read this book at a much younger age, I adored it.
;)Alright, alright so he is 14 in this book, but I was merely a young lass enamored with the idea of a gorgeous Native American boy to sweep me off my feet.Now about the book itself...
It is an easy read for 2nd-5th graders, I would say.
A young boy's father leaves him alone in a cabin surrounded by nothing but forest while he returns to Quincy, Maine to retrieve his wife and child.
In his absence, Matt [boy] meets Attean [Indian] and against all odds, they become friends.
We no like white man.
In my book, Sign of the Beaver, Matt an English teenage settler befriends and Indian named Attean.
I found this book interesting because during this time the English and the Indians had a relationship that could best be described as fighting.I couldn’t get over the fact that Matt seemed to be realizing slowly that he wasn’t just bonding with Attean but slowly growing the relationship of a friend.
I didn’t see much of that but I could tell from the first time Matt met Attean that he had never had an Indian as a best friend before.
I read this book years ago before I started my Goodreads account and added it to my shelves based on my long term memories of it, but I have lowered my original rating (from 4 stars to 2 stars) after reading several newer articles about its problematic misrepresentation of Native Americans. Please reference these articles in the comments below.
For this category of book: Historical Fiction Mid-Elementary to Middle School this is a 5 Star book. It is a great book to give a child who needs reading practice but likes good stories. I had my recent studentsread it aloud to me and it was perfect for that also. I have read it several times and still did not get bored this time around.I would say this also qualifies as The Literature of Honor for Middle Boys which I have not put together yet.
Great book for young men! I liked the illustration of "both sides of the story" from the Native American point of view as well as the English settler. I loved the continual comparison to Robinson Crusoe as well as the Bible references and similar Native American version of the story of Noah. I cried when Attean and Matt had to say goodbye. Great story of survival and hope.
This book was very detailed that almost made the book way more interesting. When I found out that the book was based off of an actual story (well mostly) I was shocked with surprise because I usually HATE with a capital H.A.T.E Historical Fiction. The ending of this book took me by surprise because Ben never came back and take something else like Matt's fishing line. He is such a mysterious character that the was surprise to me.
I thought the Sign of the Beaver was a five star book because there was so much action that made you wonder will he make it or something else. We read this book during class. It had so many wondering moments like " Will Matts parents make it back to sleep the cabin?" That's why I gave this book the amazing five stars because it was one of the best books I have read.
Both my daughter and I found this book captivating. We're both fans of Native American stories, and of stories of survival. We got both with this one. Highly recommended for younger readers with a taste for pioneer-life fiction.
A quite enjoyable read for a Sunday afternoon. It's simple and easy, asking relevant questions for any young kid in elementary school. Historical without being too overwhelmingly detailed. Heartfelt and sincere without being too sappy. I feel like I read this back during my early homeschool days, but I've no memory of keeping the book, so I'd like to add this back to my shelves someday.
3  stars. Nice story for ages 10 and up.It’s educational about surviving in the wild Indian style - and seeing a friendship develop between Indian boy Attean and Matt who is 12 years old. Attean’s grandfather wants Matt to teach Attean how to read and write in white man’s language. Attean teaches Matt how to trap, fish, make a bow and arrow, etc. I liked learning things that the Indians did. It’s a pleasant read, but it didn’t excite me or surprise me the way “Hatchet” by Gary Paulsen did. Hatch
Nice story for ages 10 and up.It’s educational about surviving in the wild Indian style - and seeing a friendship develop between Indian boy Attean and Matt who is 12 years old.
Attean’s grandfather wants Matt to teach Attean how to read and write in white man’s language.
Attean teaches Matt how to trap, fish, make a bow and arrow, etc.
Hatchet was the story of a boy surviving alone in the Canadian wilderness after a plane crash.
Matt lives alone in a cabin in the wilderness in 1768 Maine.
Matt and his father built a cabin and planted corn and pumpkins.
I read this book as a kid. Fourth grade maybe, it's hard to remember. All I remember is that I loved it. I loved anything about survival in the wilderness. I had wanted to run away with my dog into the woods as a kid and recall reading this voraciously. I would like to re-read it for my inner-child.
This was an awesome book. I love reading books like this that show how friendships can develop even when you're of different cultures.
I agree with Liam,this book was truly amazing!I also gave this book 5 stars!
This book was really good the only thing i did not like is that I thought the ending was weird because all that Matt did was tell his parents about Attean I thought it was going to be a little bit more of exiting ending then that. So i gave this book 4 STARS!
Ok. I had heard various Native American reviewers pan this book for its stereotypical portrayals.
The Indians are referred to and refer to themselves as "Indians." (from context I think they are Algonquin?)(update: I looked at Debbie Reese's blog and they are Penobscot)4.
The Indians all speak in stereotypical bad English.
It seems awfully easy for Matt (the protagonist) to become basically an "honorary Indian."I think Speare was trying to do a good thing here, showing that the boys could be friends and Matt ends up rejecting some of his prejudices against Indians.
It was a good book.It had these sad moments in the book,but the rest of it was good.If our you I would read this book.p.s its historical fiction.
This book is set in 1768, at a time when Maine was still a "frontier," and was originally written in 1983.I read this book because my nine-year-old / 4th grade son - who has only ever gushed about Harry Potter - told me he LOVED this book - just absolutely LOVED it.
I love the story, and the time period, and what happens to Matt, and just everything." So if you are looking for a book for a nine-year-old boy, that's my son's review.If you are neither a 4th grader nor looking for a 4th grader: this was still a delightful book.
I liked this book the begining was "ok" but then it started to get way better!I wanted to keep reading this book because all of us wanted to find out were his parents where they were WAIT! that would be a "spoiler alert" but you would know if you read the book.
The end was awful. The baby was dead and Attean was gone forever. But the general survival story was pretty neat, but nothing any average person couldn't handle. I had really hoped that Attean would come and stay with Matt for the winter and matts family would never return but hey. I'm not the writer. I'm the reader. I read the book. I was disappointed.
I really enjoyed this adventure with Matt. I wish that my boys had been able to read this one when they were younger. This is just the type of book and hero that my guys love. If you have young men in your life, this would be a wonderful read-aloud together.
He and his father went there early to build a cabin while his mom and sisters stayed home.
Then one day Attean and his father came to Matt’s hut and asked if he wanted to live with them because they're moving.
Will Matt live with the Indians or will he stay at the cabin and pray his family will come back?
My favorite part was when Matt’s family came home at the end of the story.
Another reason that was my favorite part was because I finally got to see how happy Matt was, and how his family acted.
For my 8-yr old son's school, every year he gets a list of like 20 books he can choose from, and has to read around 4-5 and do a book report on them.
(Except evil ones like Old Yeller) This year, I realized there were many I hadn't read, or hadn't read in a very long time, so I'm working my way through them so we can enjoy them together.
Not only are kids learning about Native American culture, they are learning about these two very different boys from very different backgrounds, learning how to get along.
A children's book that doesn't pretend to be more than it is--the fairly tame story of a 12-year-old boy left alone in the wild frontier of Maine.
He is befriended by and learns from a neighboring tribe of native Americans.Written in 1984, "Sign of the Beaver" is a bit dated in the way it portrays the native Americans and their pidgin English, but still offers a sympathetic portrait of their plight as white settlers push them from their hunting grounds.
With a listed reading level equivalent of 5.7, the novel should hold the attention of younger readers, but it may be too tame for those on the upper end of level.
Nothing goes as the father plans and the boy is left alone far longer than was intended.He is befriended by a small group of Indians and is taught how to survive by them.
He is asked by an older Indian to teach the man's grandson to read - the only book the settler boy has is Robinson Crusoe and obviously the native lad doesnt appreciate the treatment given out to Man Friday.This is a gripping well - told story and as usual for this author, provokes a lot of discussion for a child.Read aloud to a 9 year old.
Aren't they supposed to refer to their tribe?I didn't feel like I learned a lot about Attean or the tribe so I'm a little confused as to how he and Matt became "brothers".
The fact that Matt refers to Attean as his "Indian brother" to his sister is a little troubling, but this was written in the '80s so maybe I was expecting too much?
I don't really like the fact that the author makes Attean seem lazy and willing to let women do the work.I don't think I got much out of this book.
Read this book as part of the kids curriculum and we all really enjoyed it.
It's rare that my kids ask me to keep going when I finish a chapter.
I love teaching history through stories and this was a great insight into what life was like for both settlers and for the native american indians, without being particularly biased either way.
We also did a few activities together to make the book and the history come more alive like making oil paper window panes and corn cakes with molasses.
I would definitely recommend this book for kids.
It's a shorter book but has so much meaning you really have to think about what Matt (Main Character) goes through.In the very beggining of the book you find out that Matt who has lived in Massachussetts all his life, now has to move to the Territory of Maine (Takes place in the late 1700's) Together Matt and his dad build a cabin, plant crops and set up their land.
It is then that Matt is told by his father that he'll be left alone at their property, whild his father goes to get Matt's mother sister and baby sister.
You won't regret reading this book!
This was a great book if you love to read about hunting and adventures. You will be left hanging at the end of chapters and you will want to keep reading until the end. The ending is very shocking but very realistic. I would definitely recommend this book!
ترجمه پروین علی پور را خوانده ام (با عنوان در سرزمین سرخپوست) و همان را هم توصیه می کنم(ترجمه ی دیگر متعلق به نسرین وکیلی است که نشر قطره منتشرش کرده)خیلی حرف دارم درباره اش که بعدا سر فرصت باید بیایم این جا بنویسمشان...
