https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398479.The_Hunter_s_Moon
Also, the characters fell in love with each other or became loyal, lifelong friends after knowing each other for two pages, maybe.
Just let me explain.)For one thing, the main character is a sixteen year old girl that travels across Ireland by herself (and she's a foreigner, mind you) and the only problems she runs into throughout the entire book are the ones the faeries cause.
They were like children's storybook characters.
I like to have some depressing in a book now and then.Finally, I was just a little mad at the cover.
Yes, I know, don't judge a book by it's cover.
Gwen is from Canada, but she visits Findabhair every summer in Ireland.
One particular summer, Gwen comes and they plan a backpacking trip all across Ireland, hitting all the major fantastical sites along the way.
They go to the Mound of Hostages (aka supposed entrance to the faerie world) at the Hill of Tara (the ancient capitol of Ireland) and that is where the adventure begins.I read this book while on a study abroad program in Ireland.
O.R. Melling does a fantastic job at weaving a fiction novel with the Celtic myths and the Gaelic language.
Everything happens so bam bam bam right after each other that you just couldn’t get into the characters or get a decent grasp for the whole build-up of suspense.
Another thing that I found really strange was that Findabhair is the name of the author's daughter.I know the whole love at first sight thing is sweet, romantic, and everyone wishes that it could happen to them but at least make it plausible.
Err… okay.The writing does pick up by about the halfway mark and sort of settles down into a decent pace.
There’s no explanation as to why characters do the things that they do, so we can’t really understand them, relate to them, or develop any feelings ourselves.
Some of my individual thoughts: - Unromantic: It's like the author wants there to be a romantic angle, but she doesn't have the wherewithal to actually write and develop it.On a personal note, I think the author has a really warped idea of what “romance” is.
In fact, I think the author has some warped ideas about a lot of things...
Two girls went traveling, one gets stolen by the faeries, wants to stay but her fat friend tries to drag her back, while struggling to gain her own self-confidence.
It was written like a lot was happening, but as far as scenes where I actually saw the character learn and grow, these were very minimum.
Maybe if the author has written more scenes or showed us a better connection between the faery king, I would have been able to believe their 'love.' But not this way.
I am a person who picks up a book about faeries because I want to be transported.
This book was a 5 cups of tea read. I read it in one day it was such a fast paced and fun book.Set in Ireland ( of course thats a plus for me) we follow two cousins Gwen and Findabhair, both loverss of anything fantasy related, they plan a trip around ireland but after deciding to travel the road less travelled they run into some unexpected problems. I really enjoyed this book and have marked some places i would like to travel to in ireland such as tara.
It was good! It had gotten way better than at the beginning of the story. Overall it was good!
She had that kind of dazed look on her face, and no words would escape her lips as the witch doctor talked to her while the Island King went to fetch her things after a freak moment of panic for fear that Gwen was hit by something more sinister than a fairy dart.
My only issue I had with the book was the young romance and the fact that the sixteen year old girl Finn (for short), would willingly give up her mortal soul to live in the world of the fae and be a queen, stripping her of all her essence of mortal diviner.
Hunter's Moon went by pretty fast for me, mostly because there wasn't much going on.
Along the way she meets some nice helpful people that surprisingly believe in faeries (what a coincidence).
Of course there is to be a sacrifice on Hunter's Moon, as anyone who is familiar with faerie lore knows, but somehow the characters are surprised by it.
I'm surprised the author was able to fit a two sentence plot into 300 pages.
The characters fell in love too quickly, and there was so much running around we barely got to know them.
2,5 SterneIch muss sagen leider hat es mir leider nicht so sehr gefallen - ich fand die Story etwas flach und auch die Charaktere etwas stereotypisch. Allerdings drehte es sich um Elfen und so fand ich die Geschichte doch irgendwie gut ;) Aber leider konnte ich doch nicht mehr als 2* vergeben - mal sehen ob ich den zweiten Band noch lesen werde oder nicht. Allerdings keine schlechte Grundidee - ich denke mir könnte das zweite doch gefallen allein deshalb :)
Cute and fast paces story about fairies.
It was enjoyable and fun read; if you love stories about fairies set in Ireland than you might enjoy this.
Writing is alright, the story line was fast paces and it moved along.
Everything was moving along too fast to the point that the story had no natural progression.
At times I felt the story was rushed towards the conclusion.
Romance was bit rushed and unbelievable especially between Dara and Gwen.
Anyways, despite all the shortcoming I enjoyed reading this book and I will give book two try as well.
Happy Reading!!!
Faeries.The Hunter’s Moon is about two cousins, Gwen and Findabhair (pronounced “Finnaveer”) who had been great friends as children, but haven’t seen each other since they were thirteen.
Gwen wakes in the morning to find Findabhair missing and a strange set of clues left behind for her to follow.My favourite thing about this book is Gwen’s opposing motivations for tracking down her cousin and the faeries that took her.
The girls don’t have cell phones or email and it the story opens with Findabhair reading a letter that Gwen sent her.
I've always loved books based on mythology that correspond to the setting.
So when I picked up this book, I was delighted to sit down and allow myself to be taken on adventure around Ireland.
People don't act they way they do in this book whether they are in love or not.
It is nice and all for love in first sight but at least make it a little believable.
What kept me from giving this book one star was the twist in the end.
I was pretty sure that this is going to be a happy ending with them killing off the Worm and living happily ever after.
In this wonderful 'coming of age' book targeted for teens, O.R. Melling introduces readers to a fantasy world rich with factual elements and descriptions of Ireland.
Gwen, the heroine, is described as being "short and plump with a head of cropped curls"...
not the typical teen heroine that frequents other popular YA books on shelves today.
Watching Gwen deal with the changes of growing up and becoming the brave young woman was wonderful.What was really the jewel in this book is Ireland itself.
Melling's knowledge and experiences there really shine through in the way she describes the country Ireland almost became a character in the story..
I usually don't read young adult books because I require a bit more depth and intricacy to my novels than most teen series can provide.
I was pleasantly surprised.The novel is paced well, with plenty of suspense and action to keep even the adult reader interested in the goings-on.
I, for one, identified with both heroines within the first twenty pages of the novel.My favorite part of this book were the allusions to mythology that I picked on very easily.
I think both women have a great grasp on storytelling and crafting a story that is rich in mythology, characters, and a great read for old and young alike.
Positives: This story is set in Ireland, so there’s lots of new words.
There’s a dictionary in the back of the book, though, so that definitely helps.
It was a sweet, romantic "fairy" tale.Negatives: Although I really liked the story, it wasn’t until the last 3rd of the book that I really got into it and couldn’t wait to finish it.
I like those books that I’m drawn in from the beginning.
One of the characters smoke a couple of times, but she does quit.
One hitchhikes a couple of times, and the two girls lie to the aunt and uncle about where they are going.
16-year-old Gwen travels from America to Ireland to visit her cousin Findabhair.
The two girls share a love of fantasy and myth and plan to travel around Ireland visiting all the ancient sites associated with the fairy folk.
On their first night out they sleep on the mound at Tara and Findabhair is carried away by the king of the fairies.
Gwen, who is usually the follower, must travel the island alone, searching for her cousin and challenging the fairies.
Her travels provide a good introduction to Irish places and legends.
Two cousins start looking for the world of faerie and they get more than they bargained for.
This book is from the children's section of my library system but it is definitely for preteens and teens.
What I liked about the writing was that the vocabulary was not simplified for the ages of the intended readers.
It would certainly enhance the youngsters reading abilities and the story keeps the reader interested to find out just what will happen next.
There is also a glossary in the back for all the Irish words used in the text.
It contains the definitions and, thankfully, the pronunciations of these words.
I found the writing style of this book to be, for a lack of better word, juvenile.
It wasn't very descriptive at all and did nothing to draw me into the story.
It didn't help that the focus was constantly shifting between the two girls and never stayed on one long enough for me to really learn much about them.
(Then again, I only read 50 pages before I had to stop...) The plot itself...well, I just couldn't bring myself to care about it.
I tried to, but I couldn't.It's been awhile since I've had to completely give up on a book, but this one forced my hand.
I really really like this book. I wish I could say I love it, partly because I love the way Melling inverts some of the most problematic aspects of Susan Cooper (like, SPOILER ALERT for those who haven't read the whole "Dark Is Rising" series, the way the mortal kids are forced to forget everything). But somehow the characters didn't have enough depth--and therefore the plot didn't have enough propulsion, subjectively speaking, for me to give it a fifth star. Overall, though, I'd recommend this highly to readers of YA fiction.
This book was really bad lmao. The last 50 pages were okay, though.
Reading the 3rd and 4th books made me want to reread the 1st 2. I thought I remembered them having a different feel. This book is pure magic, and is more about a lone person's quest than about a joint mission, like book 4 has. I like Gwen, even if I think the book never explores her character enough, and I love the red hair thing.
A fun story with strong characters and easily readable prose. It lacks the story depth that could have made it an amazing book.
Okay okay! Finvarra War am Anfang ein Kotzbrocken aber DAS?!Es hat mich zerrissen! Das Buch flog nur so hin und nja Band 2 und 3? Mal sehen :3
Very well-described and eye-opening tale. Takes back a whole Irish setting created of the Faerie, Witches, and elves alike in Ireland. And it's all hid right before mortals' eyes! :) I loved it.
Cute book and a fast read. At the moment I'm not sure if I'm interested enough to go look up the next book in the series, but this book on its own was worth the read.
There were certain plot points that didn’t really make any sense to me (Gwen eating the faerie food and having no consequences afterward, the 6 mortals and 1 faerie king filling in the prophecy to defeat the Worm as “angels”, although they’re all human...and faerie...there seeming to be this big underlying issue of Gwen having ulterior motives for rescuing her cousin, i.e. wanting a faerie romance for herself, yet ending up with a mortal, the faerie king miraculously coming back alive as a human reincarnate even though the very reason the Worm seemed to want him as a sacrifice was because he wasn’t human, etc.) In addition, I started losing a bit of my perseverance while reading this book once Gwen started getting whisked around on her solo journey and flicking back and forth between the faerie realm and her own with no rhyme or reason.
Ok, so for you people who dont like the book because of its flaws then why are your even puting a revew on here if you hated it so much?
anyway im not on a rant so on with what i was gonna say,This book realy opened my eyes.
mayby im childish or just weird or stupid to belive but I think there could be another world.
but serriosly, this was a good book.
and mayby i am ranting..
shoot sorry to rant.
anyway, books can influence people in may ways, as in what they belive.
ITS A GOOD BOOK!
What I didn't like: both love stories were ridiculous,immature, and forced.
I had whiplash from these manufactured love stories whizzing by.
The whole climax of the story takes place in the last maybe 15 pages of the book give or take.
The whole story builds up to a really weak climax to end three pages later.
I don't understand the editing of this book, no one read this and thought maybe they should flesh out the details of the plot before publishing it?At this point I don't intend on continuing with the series especially when there are other faerie/fantasy novels done so well.
It’s also amazingly helpful in understanding some of Ireland’s language and culture and even historical sites.
There is a super handy glossary and note on the Irish language in the back.
This book captivated me the way a tale told by an elder Irish native would.
I will be visiting Ireland for the 1st time in October and wanted to get to know some of its history in a fun whimsical way and that’s exactly what this book did.
O.R Melling really knows how to spin a tale and I can’t wait to read the books she has written.
