https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7263429-wolfsbane
**The second half of this review contains spoilers. So, if you haven't read this book, read at your own risk.**   OMG, thank goodness it's over. I think I give out 1 star reviews about the same amount as 5 stars. I like to think of myself as a forgiving reader. I am still able to enjoy a book that has an interesting premise even with a few flaws. I also can usually find *something* I liked from a book that probably shouldn't have been published. So how did I like Wolfsbane?   Geez. Where to begi
However, the same can not be said for Wolfsbane.Let's start with the first big fail; because I'm so disappointed in this book, I'm going into some serious detail.
There is a lot of question and answer dialog going on that goes something like this:A searcher would make a statement, and then Calla or Shay would say:"How do you know that?""What's that mean?""I don't understand.""Tell me what's going on.""Huh?""I'm not following."It got on my freakin' nerves.
And at the end of the book Sabine mentions that Shay is their new male alpha and this shocks Calla.
stop rating this book if you havent read it.
but believe me it is :D )I got this yesterday (25th) and finished it today (26)!So. Bad things first:Shay once again IRRITATED me to death.
I do NOT like how he pushes Calla to do things when she can't even think straight (poor girl got a lot of stuff happening).
That is one thing that Shay and Calla have in common.
I find her quite selfish, and didn't realize how much her stupid decisions (about saving Shay at the end of 'Nightshade') affected her family and pack mates back home.
(Or at least, I didn't hehehe)While I didn't love the main characters (except for Ren!
I love the covers of this series.
I hope Ren gets a bit of slack in this novel, I have to say, I love him a lot more than Shay.EDIT: Ummm...
what happened to the cover?
I don't like this cover quite as much.
To be honest she looks a little slutty.
Why does she look like a stripper?
(I mean, she's wearing leather pants!) On the other hand, I like her hair.
SECOND EDIT: When the cover for wolfsbane was done, they also re-vamped cover number one.
As much as I dislike this cover, I have to say cover number one is amazing!
Although I have read the first in the series a while back, this one didn’t disappoint me at all. We understand a lot about Kala’s feelings and Shays character as the plot grows. It had its twists, action scenes and details regarding the background.3.5 stars
If you read my review of Nightshade you know I am not a huge fan of his and he was even worse in this book.
I really think the book spent way too much time on Calla's internal debates about Shay vs.
Ren and the story only really gets going towards the last half or quarter.The ending does really pick up the pace and I did enjoy it more possibly because there is not so much Shay time.
In fact, if you are a Shay fan you will probably love it.lol.
Oh, man Andrea Cremer has done it again!WOLFSBANE picks up right where Nightshade left off.
I wasn't completely in love with the first book to be honest, I mean I liked it and the ending had me guessing while glued to my seat, but Andrea Cremer really stepped it up in WOLFSBANE.
We meet some new characters in WOLFSBANE and I love them to death.
I love both Ren and Shay!
I loved this book to death and I think that Andrea Cremer enjoys being evil with all these damn cliffhangers she writes.
Nightshade and Wolfsbane are like black and white. Wolfsbane was full of action but devoid of everything else. It went like this:infodumpinfodumpinfodumpactioninfodumpinfodumpactioninfodumpactioninfodumpactioninfodumpactionactionactionslight infodumpendThe whole thing was like one giant conversation with a few good action scenes in between. I really don't want to say anymore, because that would just be wasting the time I could be using writing glorious things about the third book.So, like my inside joke with my Nighshade review, From Reno, Nevada, I'm Hayden Casey, saying good night!
I guess that would be the logical explanation, don’t you think?In the first book we saw the world from the Keepers and Guardians POV which now is considered the enemy line.
I’m close to turning 24 soooo I don’t have the patience needed to go through sh*t like this.Connor is my favorite character, after him comes Silas (these two fighting made my day!) and that’s it.
Do I really love Shay that much?Answer: (view spoiler)[Naw, I’m just kidding.
Total BS of course (but I see that happening to all characters in the book so I guess that’s the way Andrea Cremer sees the issue).
I liked the story, I liked the twists and turns taking place, I loved the new characters and the magic - and still I found myself putting the book aside instead of speeding through it.I have a theory regarding what it might be that kept me from going - and I'm going to put that behind a spoiler tag because it might be considered a bit spoiler-y.(view spoiler)[So what I think threw me off with this novel - and doesn't make me too excited for the next one - is that the love triangle that was hinted at in the first book but also seemed to be finished because Calla chose Seth over Ren is back.
I thought that we discovered a lot of the history in book one...
I loved the history lesson that we got this time around.
And it wasn't a boring history lesson.
Could not stop turning the pages!I loved the new characters in the Searcher team, but I missed the pack members something fierce.
She surprises me at every turn.Wolfsbane wasn't as near action packed as it's predecessor, but at the same time it was just as intense!
I think people that love the first novel won't be disappointed in the direction the series is going!I can't wait for book three!
So much happened good thing I already have book 3 !
I really liked Nightshade and had high hopes for the next book but, well...
The narrative thread is snipped in what feels like an arbitrary fashion.And then there's the prose.
On one randomly chosen page, we have eyes widening ...
This doesn't feel like a trilogy, with one more book coming to wrap up the threads (and checking the author's website I see there's one final book and then a companion novel).
It feels like it should be just two books, with tighter editing and fewer guilt-bitten guts.ARC provided by publisher.
I LOVED Nightshade, so naturally I was expecting to be blown away by the sequel.
Blown away I was not, however.SPOILER ALERTThe only thing that happens in the book is Calla and her new 'friends', the Searchers, go back to Vail to try and rescue Call's pack mates.
Unnecessary details coming from newly introduced characters who failed to make an actual impression.
A whole bunch of details that didn't come together (in the mythology department).But the worst thing yet?
He was my favorite character, so the fact that he was missing in the sequel was kind of disappointing.
3,5 SterneNicht schlecht, nicht schlecht. Auch, wenn es quasi mitten in einer Szene aufhört und ich absolut nicht auf ein Ende vorbereitet war. Ich fühlte mich wie herausgerissen. Und damit meine ich nicht, dass es sich anfühlt wie ein Cliffhanger.Ich habe während der Lektüre ständig diese wunderschönen Wölfe vor mir gesehen, Calla und Shay sind Figuren, deren Geschichte man gerne verfolgt, allerdings war dieses Buch dann doch recht einfach aus der Hand zu legen, auch kurz vor Ende noch. Nicht, dass es schlecht geschrieben wäre, aber halt auch nicht überragend.
I loved Nightshade and thought Wolfsbane would be even better, but sadly my expectations had evaporated by the fourth of fifth chapter.Calla is now in the Searchers’ stronghold, called the Roving Academy because it moves around the world.
I thought we’d already cleared that in the first book where Calla chooses Shay renouncing everything for him to have a life of freedom by his side.
Calla still doubts her feelings for Shay, she is doubting the Searchers’ intentions, as if we hadn’t just spend an entire two books proving those things.
Calla even says “I didn’t choose Shay.” NO?
If you thought Nightshade was full of unique, incredibly interesting characters and original story, Wolfsbane will leave you wondering how it was possible for it to have gotten even better.
In Nightshade, my stance in the battle of the boys was firm: Team Ren, all the way.
I think something about Shay always having to be saved by Calla kind of turned me off.
Calla’s conflict in choosing between them stems more from her feelings of guilt for leaving Ren, whom she truly cares about, and her feelings of love towards Shay.
One thing I’m almost positive of though, is that Calla will choose Shay in the end.
She even adds some decent mythology to the mix in Wolfsbane, something I thought was blatantly lacking in Nightshade.So why the two stars?
Shay is the biggest snoozer of a male lead I've read about for two years running, and the love triangle is strangling this series.
But in this series, Calla's indecisiveness and lust for both boys--and first Ren's and now Shay's pushy ways--make this love triangle irritating.
However, after the bare mythology in Nightshade, the expansion of the world is welcomed.The writing's good.
But until I can actually LIKE these characters--their personalities and choices--I can't give above two stars.
I liked your book, and then I lost all respect for Calla and more for Shay that he did this when she was mourning Ren. Mourning Ren. I had to give this book two stars, and I might change it to one because I am so angry at this turn of events.
And the sad thing is, overall, is that I know I will read bloodrose when it comes out because I want to know what happens to Ren. Not Calla, who my respect for is gone, and definitely not Shay, who has ruined the one character I like's life.
I loved the first book, and I cannot wait until Wolfsbane!
May I ask, whats with the pants?!
Leather, really?Well anyway, the first book was really cool, I hope the second one is even better :]-missrosey~~~~~~after reading...
boringggg.okay, after the first 250 pages it got a little bit better.
like, very, very tiny.the first book was so.
1 - Shay is annoying.2 - Ren?!
whats up with that.
ya know, I actually liked him.
(in the first book, I mean)5 - favorite character = Connor.
annoying.7 - Don't kill Monroe.
anyway, I totally did not enjoy this book.maybe the next one will be better?
To sum up all of the Guardians' feelings for Calla:
"This is only about love."This was totally worth the wait :D I was so excited when I finally received this to review (bit late but better late than never).
Which made me sad, I want more Ren. However having said that, I now understand why Andrea Cremer wrote Ren out of Wolfsbane because its the ending to this book that makes you understand and hope that Bloodrose will consist of Ren's story and the turn of events between himself, Calla and the Keepers lies.
I can't wait to read Bloodrose and finally get everything tied up and answered!
Shay is on the back burner a bit for me in Wolfsbane but we find out a lot about the role he plays and his past in this book.
Shay is a great character, and I think his role in Bloodrose is going to be intense.Ren - Ren barely made an appearance in this book.
My heart was left beating with intensity in my chest the way things ended with Calla, Shay, Ren and Adne.
Wolfsbane is a middle type book but it is gearing up for an intense war in Bloodrose.
This love triangle might make me want to strangle myself.
One thing that I don't love is how unattached to the characters the author seems to be.
Just as I start to really like someone and feel like they are hugely important to the story, she kills them off.
I like rainbows and sunshine too much.
Still, the storytelling is fantastic and I have NO IDEA how this series will end.
Shay is too important to kill off or be second best :((I'm listening to the audio of this series.
This sequel was fantastic. I really wanted a paranormal romance that I could fall in love with and I have with this series. I need more Ren though asap.
Review courtesy of All Things Urban FantasyCall it the Sophomore slump, the second season syndrome, or what have you, but last year I gave NIGHTSHADE, the first book in the series of the same name by debut author Andrea Cremer, a perfect 5/5 rating.
Calla still wants to make out (and more) with Shay until mid smooch session when she’ll abruptly shove him away out of guilt over Ren. But then the situation just repeats a few chapters later.More annoying still was the plethora of new and extremely irritating characters.
In the first few chapters a dozen new characters strut in and out of scenes with lots of desperate attempts at humor and inside jokes to show how close they all are.
Seriously, I loved Nightshade's cover, so I bought the book and --in turn-- fell in love with the story.
Is this not a YA fiction book?
What's with the "Sexy cover"?
I know zero adults who would buy the book with the new cover but not the old.
Most people I know (including adults) would rather have the beautiful covers that were first advertised/used for the books.
They showed her as beautiful without having to resort to almost-innappropriate images.
The only way I'm allowed to buy Wolfsbane and know what happens next is if I get rid of the dustjacket.
Why does everyone hate Shay???
Seriously, I feel sorry for him after being picked on by the pack.
The wolf pack made me think of the old cheerleaders-eat-with-football-team stereotype.
Cassa's just stringing along both Ren AND Shay and it's quite disgusting to me.
Did anyone notice how she hated Ren in the first chapter of the book and then all of the sudden she's in love with him???
The only guy I like in this book was Ansel.
No one treated each other kindly, everyone was hostile, Ren was a bastard, Shay was pitiful, and Ansel and Brynn stole the show for me.
Didn't like it as much as the first one, mostly because Ren was hardly in it and i am completely in love with him. It was alright Shay made me hate him more than i already did which i didn't think was possible. Calla needs to sort her head out. However BloodRose which is due out in January is the last in the series and the first chapter looks amazing, Calla goes back to get Ren and they share a passionate steamy few minuets hope the author regains herself and finally gives Calla to Ren with whom she belongs.
OMG Jan 24th is so far away! It was soooo good. I can't say more without spilling my guts and spoiling the whole thing for those that have not read it but WOW!
