https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20454672-mean-streak
For the sake of containing the suspense and surprise, I’m going to refer to the cabin stranger as ‘Mr. X.’ Anyways, Mr. X is what I like to call the classic Sandra Brown hero: taciturn, broody, yet honorable to the core.
He cares for Emory’s wounds but reveals little about himself, only insisting that Emory must stay at his cabin.I always find it hard to review romantic suspense stories, especially ones like Sandra Brown’s books where they are much more suspenseful than romantic.
Okay, I know what you’re thinking. Another 5 star rating for Sandra Brown! How could that be right? Well this woman writes some pretty amazing books.  Where to begin….I don’t think it really is fair for me to give too much detail about the plot. For starters I really wouldn’t know where to begin with this one. Then of course I wouldn’t want to give anything away because IMO with a suspense novel, one little thing could really ruin it for you.I’m going to try and just give you some tidbits so tha
Then of course I wouldn’t want to give anything away because IMO with a suspense novel, one little thing could really ruin it for you.I’m going to try and just give you some tidbits so that you can get a feel for this one.
As her life starts to spin in a different direction than her husband Jeff’s, things become strained between them.
As Emory starts to lose ground to this attraction she finds herself in situations that are a complete contradictions to who she is.
I’m not going to lie; this one had my head spinning a bit.
With no phone, no way of communicating with the outside world, and with thick fog and heavy, falling snow, it is impossible to leave.As usual in a Sandra Brown thriller there are twists and turns, red herrings and suspects aplenty.
My favourite romantic suspense author for many years now, Ms Brown has written some of the very best romantic thrillers/suspense around.
4.5 Stars!!Well played Sandra Brown.....well played!!!Kudos for the jaw dropping revelations! You really got me a few times! Not that it's that hard! This was definitely veering off the path of what I normally read but I really enjoyed it. Could have done with a bit more romance but the story kept me engaged and had me guessing until the very last page!
Story Rating ~ 5 Stars!Hero Rating ~ 5 Stars!Heroine Rating ~ 5 Stars!Romance Rating ~ 4 Stars!Heat Level ~ 3.5 StarsEnding ~ 5 Stars!Overall Rating ~ 5, HE ALWAYS DID WHAT HE SAID STARS!  Mean Streak  was an AMAZING read for me. The story starts off with the heroine Emory and her husband Jeff having an argument over her training and running marathons. Right off the bat I STRONGLY disliked her husband, he was so self-absorbed, I wanted to smack him upside his head. When Emory gets ready to leave
The story starts off with the heroine Emory and her husband Jeff having an argument over her training and running marathons.
When Emory gets ready to leave to go on a training run through some mountain paths they had a cold goodbye.
I could hardly believe what I just read!This was my second Sandra Brown book and I like to thank Mo for recommending it to me.
Now I need you to give me another SB recommendation PLEASE because this most definitely will not be my last SB read.
Hayes. Emory. These are intriguing and perfect character names to take us on a thrilling romantic ride. I’m new to this genre, but Sandra Brown does this so well! How good is this: Sorry, Doc.For what?Keeping you awake.I haven’t complained.So, you want me to stop?No.Don’t stop this?No. God no. Don’t…don’t stop.You’ll have to be the one who says you’ve had enough.I’m not there yet.Good because I can’t stop. Given my newness to this racy romance thriller thing, I noticed in a flash that it was fol
I’m new to this genre, but Sandra Brown does this so well!
Don’t…don’t stop.You’ll have to be the one who says you’ve had enough.I’m not there yet.Good because I can’t stop.
Given my newness to this racy romance thriller thing, I noticed in a flash that it was following the same vein as Lethal, bad but oh so ‘good’ guy taking a lovely woman seemingly against her will as we watch a delicious build up.
I think it’s the wanting to know what is happening in the thriller side of things, but it’s also the wanting more of the bad guy too.
Who doesn't love a bad boy?!
Dr. Emory Charbonneau, a pediatrician and marathon runner, disappears on a mountain road in North Carolina. Her husband, Jeff, does not report her missing for a few days and then the trail is gone cold. While police suspect Jeff of instant divorce, Emory, suffering from an unexplained head injury, regains consciousness and finds herself the captive of a man whose violent past is so dark that he won t even tell her his name. She’s determined to escape him, and willing to take any risks necessar
While police suspect Jeff of instant divorce, Emory, suffering from an unexplained head injury, regains consciousness and finds herself the captive of a man whose violent past is so dark that he won t even tell her his name.
Really did not know which way it was going to end.
This one kept me on my toes, wondering and guessing all the way.
”Blood washes out, most of the time ...”
He’d spent a night with her that he would die remembering.He would revisit it a million times in his fantasies
4 StarsMean Streak is a suspenseful, edge of your seat read, with twist and turns around every corner.Dr. Emory Charbonneau is a very successful pediatrician, beloved within her social and work community, but her marriage is a different story.
But Emory can't help but think he is hiding something, and he seems dangerous, but for some reason she trust him.While Emory is spending her days in the cabin, her husband, Jeff becomes the main suspect in her disappearance.
Was Emory simply the victim of an unfortunate accident, or is something more nefarious going on?I really enjoyed this one, some of the twists I expected and some I did not.
Friends don't let friends read Sandra Brown. It was my first.Never again. Lesson learned.
5 STARS[image error]  He kissed her like he meant it, like this kiss was going to be the last thing he ever did on earth, and he was going to do it right, thoroughly, and leave nothing wanting. Yes, I’m back to Sandra Brown. And honestly, I just can’t get enough of these suspense/thriller/romances. These books have kept me on the edge of my seat, like a page-turning maniac. And I am always struggling to work it all out in my head. This one was no different, although a little more predictable tha
This one was no different, although a little more predictable than the other two I’ve read, but not enough to take away from the story in the least.[image error]
Jeff will lose this fight, and Emory will proceed, into the mountains of North Carolina for a 20 mile run, alone, for the weekend.
And all will go as she planned, until she wakes up stranded in a strange man’s cabin with a concussion, a bleeding head wound, and no clue how she ended up there.[image error]
[image error]
[image error]
[image error]
[image error]
[image error]
I can’t say enough about Sandra Brown’s writing.
This was a mind-blowing read. Everything about this book was amazing,  except  the part where the heroine, Emory, cheated on her husband. I must admit, I almost put this book down as soon as I knew that she had sex with the other man. Of course, as a reader, I knew what was really going on and that her husband was cheating on her, but according to the story, Emory hadn't known that fact! Although she suspected her husband was cheating on her, there was no evidence. It doesn't matter how bad he w
Of course, as a reader, I knew what was really going on and that her husband was cheating on her, but according to the story, Emory hadn't known that fact!
I can't stand the heroines with twisted morals!There were 3 reasons why I decided to continue reading this book.1.
I wanted to find out who the real bad guy was.And I'm glad I didn't give up on this book.
They left me thoroughly stunned!However much I enjoyed reading this book and wanted it to be my 5-star read, I have to reduce 2 stars due to Emory's cheating.
It was a cleverly crafted mystery with plenty of suspense, danger, twists and turns, and a very sexy romance!
I think it’s best to go in with just the barest of facts and relish the mystery and revelations as they come.Dr. Emory Charbonneau is training for a marathon and goes on a strenuous mountain trail, gets knocked out and wakes up in a stranger’s cabin without any knowledge of how she got there.
Because I’d rather see you shy away from me, rather see you cringing with fright and mistrust like you are now, rather see you any other way except dead.”It wasn’t poetry, but it was profound.
Sandra Brown has truly outdone herself with this book, and that is saying a lot.
What a refreshing read, and not because of the subject matter.
Because this is what an amazing author can throw at us...look, Mom!
There are still authors like this out there!!!
Look, EVERYONE!!!
THERE ARE STILL AMAZING AUTHORS OUT THERE!!!!
WITH ENTIRELY NEW STORIES TO TELL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Her characters are unique, her plot is full and fast paced, the sex was hot, yet romantic and tasteful, the suspense was intense...not gruesome, but still gritty enough to keep my blood pumping.
Absolutely fantastic book.
Absurd plot, cardboard heroine, hero whose bizarre behavior has to be explained with a backstory so convoluted it felt like something Brown put off until she could no longer postpone giving him a motive.
Early Sandra Brown (contemporary bodice rippers) used to demonize any female character who didn't want to make a baby, so this was a Great Leap Forward.
Ladies must have standards.)Thing That Didn't Suck: New narrator did a good job even though I never stopped missing Victor Slezak's rough-erotic voice.
Like Slezak, this guy does female characters by softening his voice instead of raising his pitch, so they don't sound cartoonish...
Good ol' trusty reliable Sandra Brown.
No exceptions for this gripping romantic thriller with its twists and turns and steamy love scenes.
I really enjoyed it.While training for a marathon in the freezing conditions of the North American wilderness, Dr Emery Charbonneau loses consciousness and wakes in a cabin with a head injury, being nursed back to health by a rugged and extremely mysterious man.
If it weren't for that awful twist involving mystery man, I would have rated it higher.The audio version was fantastic, I really enjoyed the narration.Would I recommend Mean Streak?Yes it was a great romantic suspense.
Written July 14, 20154.7 Stars - Wow! This one knocked me. ...and destroyed my nailsMean Streak is a 2014 novel by the Master Writer in her genre, the fantastic Sandra Brown (SB). I just felt this would be an amazing good (..saw some happy friend-reviews too) adventure. And Jippie yay...         ...12 listening-hours later and not a single boring minute ~ Thrilling exciting. Fabulous romantic. ~ I was on my edge, interested, eager and nearly stunned this entire journey. Once again I got an amazi
A lot of admiring stars for a great crime-case / plot and a extra big shining star for an excellent done audiobook and flawless narration by Jonathan Davis.*********************************************I don't want to spoil anything about this clever story.
As so many suspense and crime novels is Mean Streak much better read completely clueless.
I love those strong, silent, hero-men you don't know if you can trust or not to start with in my books.
Emory’s husband, Jeff also appears to be a pretty nice fellow.Mean Streak includes some memorable  touching life stories are told.
(Jonathan Davis (JD) here is nearly as good as my #1 favorite SB narrator, Victor Slezak.
3 starsEmory finds herself unconscious with an unexplained head injury. Now in the hands of a mysterious stranger. Who is he? The story was gripping from the beginning. I liked both MCs but where it failed to reach higher marks is I would have personally preferred more romance than suspense. The suspense side was exhausting and I felt like I needed some answers sooner.There was some good twists and one liners but just missing that little bit extra to convince me of their romance.BR with Fran, Ad
3 starsEmory finds herself unconscious with an unexplained head injury. Now in the hands of a mysterious stranger. Who is he?
  The story was gripping from the beginning. I liked both MCs but where it failed to reach higher marks is I would have personally preferred more romance than suspense. The suspense side was exhausting and I felt like I needed some answers sooner.There was some good twists and one liners but just missing that little bit extra to convince me of their romance.BR with Fran, Ada and Jeanne
Bueno, al final le pongo un 3.5...
No voy a cambiar la reseña que hice, porque en términos generales sigo pensando lo mismo, pero algo en la historia no termina de encajarme, y yo necesito que todo encaje....Antes le había dado 4.5.
Sobre todo si hablamos del personaje masculino: su hermetismo está muy bien logrado, y aun así, consigue llegar al lector.
Y si no le doy las 5 estrellas, es porque hay un detalle que me tiene dudosa; no sé si soy yo o es que lo leí mal, pero...
bueno,...
4-4.5 STARSThis was my first SB book, and I loved it!Chock full of suspense, twists and turns, red herrings and powerful sexual tension, it was completely satisfying in every way.
She was a great character devoted to doing the right things.
The way things ended were brilliant.
It would have taken Emory time to move past things so I loved how when the dust settled there was still something for her to look forward to and finally get what she so much desired.
Sandra Brown is one of my favourite romantic suspense writers and whilst her latest book, Mean Streak is a good one, it’s not as good as some of her earlier novels like Breath of Scandal and French Silk, just two of my favourites.One of the things she does well is how she manages to surprise me every time....just when I think I have it all worked out...I know who the villain is....BAM....no, not anything I thought I knew!!!!
He's mad that she's going off for the weekend to train in the mountains.
Jeff isn't worried when Emory doesn't come home the next day.
When Emory still isn't home on Monday Jeff starts to call around that she's missing.
Is this man really not going to hurt her or is he the one that hit her in the head while she was running or did she really fall and hit her head on a rock.
I loved our mystery hero!
I loved Emory!
I will defiantly be reading more of Sandra Brown:))
Review posted at: www.SweptAwayByRomance.com 4.5 Suspenseful Stars! When Dr. Emory Charbonneau, a renowned pediatrician, avid marathoner, and philanthropist disappears while training for a marathon in the mountains of North Carolina. The local police fear the worst, however her husband, Jeff, has not reported her missing. He hasn't heard from her in two days, but isn't worried and thinks she's trying to punish him for an argument they had before her disappearance. He proceeds spend the weekend w
When Dr. Emory Charbonneau, a renowned pediatrician, avid marathoner, and philanthropist disappears while training for a marathon in the mountains of North Carolina.
She is a great romantic suspense author and her books never fail to keep me engaged and on the edge of my seat.
My only complaint is that it seemed to end rather abruptly, it was conclusive, but something was missing.
Had there been an epilogue, this would have been a 5 star read.
*A copy of the book was provided by Grand Central Publishing via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review
3.5 starsThis book was definitely a page turner, my first Sandra Brown book. I'm not sure I felt that all of the dots were connected in the end, some things didn't make sense to me. (view spoiler)[ His reason for staying hidden didn't make sense, and why would his sister go into hiding? (hide spoiler)]. I really enjoyed it though.BR with Ami, Fran and Ada:)) Thanks for leaving me cool spoilers!
I absolutely LOVE a fabulous mystery with intrigue, danger, secrets and lies, and of course, sexual tension. Ms. Brown has this all going on in spades in this book!! On top of all that, her characters are fantastic. Loved the two MCs and the secondary characters are just as engaging; rich with personality, complexity and witty dialogue. "She wanted to experience him, every rough surface, every gruff word, his outdoorsy scent, the whiskey taste of his breath, the arrogant jut of his penis.""Most
I absolutely LOVE a fabulous mystery with intrigue, danger, secrets and lies, and of course, sexual tension.
On top of all that, her characters are fantastic.
Loved the two MCs and the secondary characters are just as engaging; rich with personality, complexity and witty dialogue.
I just loved that!
And the chemistry between the two MCs was so rewarding ;DD....."He kissed her like he meant it, like this kiss was going to be the last thing he ever did on earth, and he was going to do it right, thoroughly, and leave nothing wanting.""You'll be the ruin of me.
I absolutely loved it!I’m going to keep the information about the book fairly brief, because not knowing what to expect is half the fun with this type of read.
I didn’t read many reviews before going into this, just looked over ratings and I’m so glad because I had no idea where the story would lead me in the end.
It is told in third person and we see what is happening from multiple angles including Emory, her husband, the police investigating her disappearance, and someone from our stranger’s past and even knowing what everyone is thinking at different points, really nothing is as it seems.
Why does he live like a recluse in the mountains with no contact to the outside world?I think Sandra Brown has a special knack for dialogue delivery, her characters come to life by the words she gives them, the conversations are bookish but not so much, if you know what I mean.
I couldn't have asked for a better conclusion, suspense as well as romance wise, it was totally impeccable.An excellent read, I would highly recommended Mean Streak to all romantic suspense readers and also I can't wait to pick out my next book by the queen of this genre.
And of course I had to wait until last 5% to find out who the bad guy is. But it was worth it!
Mean Streak is a standalone novel written by author Sandra Brown.
Regardless, the synopsis and other goodreads information led me to believe Mean Streak is a standalone novel, so again I felt a bit distracted wondering if I was missing something.
Overall though, I really liked this book and I have already selected a few of Sandra Brown's other novels to read in the very near future.
If you like romantic suspense, mystery, or if you just like Sandra Brown, then give Mean Streak a try!My favorite quote:"I want my pistol back." She'd forgotten she still had it.
Reseña completa: https://masromance.blogspot.com.es/20...3.5 Intento explicarme, aunque diré que ayer no pude soltarla hasta terminarlaComplicado comentar esta novela.Iba para más estrellas, pero el final no estuvo a la altura1.- Como thriller, solo decir que toda la novela engancha, y no sabéis a qué nivel.
el problema es que el final no creo que esté a la altura y, para mí, ha sido algo predecible2.- Como novela romántica no es una buena historia.
el problema es que al final me ha dejado un sabor de "ya lo sabía" que me fastidia mucho en las novelas de suspense.la pareja tiene mucha química y juega bien con la atracción entre ambos, no defrauda, pero no es una relación elaborada
