https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263114.Necromancer
3.5 stars.
Chronologically, this is the first book in Dickson's Childe Cycle though it was written after the Hugo Award winning Dorsai!.
I was really torn between 3 and 4 stars on this one as it had some really amazing ideas and was very well written.
Unfortunately, I thought the plot was a little slow and the period between great ideas/revelations dragged a bit.That said, I would still recommend reading this as it is a fairly short book and provides some very worthwhile insight into the universe of the Childe Cycle.
Truly enjoyed reading this book for Vintage SciFi Month! Felt the action was well paced and the story engaging and enjoyable.
Paul Formain es un ingeniero de minas huérfano desde muy niño y que hace cinco años estuvo a punto de morir a bordo de un velero.
Aunque escrito varios años antes del segundo, se considera el tercer volumen del Ciclo Dorsai (aunque hay discusión sobre el particular e incluso se puede considerar el primero de toda la serie si nos basamos estrictamente en la línea temporal de la misma, y no me consta que el propio Dickson interviniese para arrojar luz sobre el asunto, pero en español se editó de esa forma).¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
There isn't much action in this book compared to the rest of the series & the philosophy is a bit weird, but the observations about society are fantastic. In some very interesting examples, he points out the craziness that happens when a society has everything it needs & no longer has to focus on survival. Sound familiar? It is. Amazingly so. There's also a brief look at what happens when a computer runs a society. Very interesting & worthwhile reading, even if you don't read any other book in the series.
Wow. That was weirder than I remembered.
This was a really early book for Dickson to have written in the Childe Cycle.
It would have worked better if he had written it in order hence writing it later.
As such it kind of overreached in terms of what the Chantry Guild could do at this point.
Well at least from what I remembered.
This book was also unevenly paced.
And our main pov character Paul in some way doesn't do much.
And still with the occasional token female character.
And lots of philosophizing in an almost brilliant way.
And self-driving cars.
It made just under 200 pages feel more like 600, and took me longer to finish than a 600 page novel too!With the plot, not much really seemed to happen, and when it did, it was a bit disjointed.
Mostly things get metaphysical and philosophical very quickly, which put me off a bit- especially as I've not read many scifi books, and don't really find them gripping when I do manage to get through them.
I did half expect something like this though, considering it's 1960s scifi.I never felt that connected to the characters, especially Paul (the main character).
This is a difficult book because it's mainly a philosophical novel in which most of the action takes place (appropriate to its subject matter) "off stage." It's a novel of ideas not action. This disappointed me when I first read it 25 years ago, but I can appreciate it better now (and after having read it in its proper relation to _Dorsai!_: AFTER that novel, not before it). It's important to the overall arc of Dickson's Childe Cycle, but not a necessary novel to the understanding of the Cycle as a whole: _The Final Encyclopedia_ would do just as well.
Not how I expected the intial Childe Cycle book to go... it could have been a great book, but it's weighed down by Dickson's use of parapsychological / philosophical goobledegook that chases its own tail into incoherence.
There, the mechanics of worldbuilding, the requirements of anticipation and climax, and the function of characters all work differently in a novel.
Dickson compiled this book on whatever plane he operated on and then brought it over to the reader.
At no point does the author give the reader a solid preview into the bigger world or characters that inhabit it, thus we get revelation after revelation of unanticipated worldbuilding.
The current book summary available on this site: (view spoiler)[Throughout the Fourteen Worlds of humanity, no race is as feared and respected as the Dorsai.
At first I was disgruntled by how it seemed to tear away the foundations of the entire book, but then I realized it was internally logically consistent with the world Dickson had built, no matter how much I might dislike it.Ultimately, I feel like Necromancer is less a story than it is a guidepost, a helper to show us the way from where we are now to the world of Dorsai!.
So difficult, in fact, that I took a look at another review to see what others were saying about it.
The one other review I looked at proclaimed this a prequel to Dorsai!
That is an understandable mistake because the proof that this isn't a prequel only comes at the end and only in subtle reference to Dorsai!
It tells the story of humanity immediately before its spread to other solar systems.
In fact this book was so good I expect to make time to reread it and Dorsai!
Dickson's 1962 novel "Necromancer (Childe Cycle Book 2)" straddles the line between science fiction and fantasy.
There's a lot of parapsychology or perhaps the occult in the book (which isn't really surprising given what Dickson's setting up here).
(Childe Cycle Book 1)," I'd read it multiple times before this, with the last reading being around 30 years ago, and enjoyed it.
But, since it was written back in the 1960s, it carries a lot of baggage from that era.
The number and "quality" of the OCR errors (particularly the wrong words) is pretty bad for a 55 year old $9 book.
3.5 stars. This is an odd book, far more a metaphysical, philosophical, look at human society and the impact of a life of comfort, through all-encompassing technology, and the splintering impact it can have upon society. While the 2nd book in the Childe Cycle books of the Dorsai, the events in this predate the rest of the Dorsai books in that this deals with Humanity on Earth before they went out among the stars and splintered into vastly different groups. Dickson tackles a lot of ideas here, sometimes in a very clunky, uneven way, and other times, exceptionally well.
Expected a warrior Too much Deus ex machina, both real and mythical. Incomplete plot, but interesting premise. Not based on tactics, but on enlightenment of the obscure kind we cannot reach.
4.5 I thought this was absolutely brilliant... until the end, which seemed forced and not worthy of the story.
The reason I started being a huge fan of Gordon Dickson.
The book was tedious. The first book wasn't great, but this one was a chore to read. Based on the first two books, I will not read the rest of the series.
Hmm. After the (by today's standards) atrocious Dorsai, I had low expectations. I certainly wasn't expecting an early sixties existential SF novel in the vein of Alfred Bester (though lacking the stylistic pyrotechnics) or even Dick. Other reviewers have described it as filling in the plot holes of the Dorsai sequence but there's something more philosophical and ambitious going on here, even if it doesn't entirely succeed. There's also one of the most interesting unintentionally hilarious "token woman" moments in the whole of hard SF. But that's another story.
Good enough - almost VanVogt and a Superman It should be read before Dorsai, as it recounts facts happening on Earth before the splinterong of the cultures.A bit slow at the beginning, and we watch Paul Tremain growth in spirit.He approaches the Chantry Guild wishing To be able to gronw a new arm, because he lost one in a mine accident.Freatiche accident which he barely survived.
Then he reads about this Guild and the Alternate Laws, which account for all people gifted with artistical capabilities or as leaders or religious men.His investigativon on the alternate Laws take him to a variety of places, including the planet Mercury.A prequel of the Dorsai sequence and a rightful one, at that.
I read Necromancer because it's the first book in the Dorsai series, and I truly loved Dorsai when I first read it (I love military sci-fi).
I have to say that Necromancer was nothing like Dorsai, and I probably would have put it down if it wasn't necessary as a beginning to the series.The book just didn't catch me, and as I write this I find that I have almost no memory of the book (I remember the coal car where the main character lost his arm, and I remember that he was supposed to somehow open a portal to another world or something...not much else).Honestly, the only reason to read this book is if you want to say you've read all the books in the Childe cycle.
I wish I could say I liked it, because I do truly love some of the other books that Dickson wrote.
Paul Formain simply wants to replace the arm he lost in a mining accident, but his latent psychic abilities lead him to become a pivotal point in the conflict between a machine-led and a psychic-led future for humanity.Frankly I expected this to be cheesier that it is.
These 1960's SF novels with a heavy philosophical bent tend to be long on exposition and short on story, but the balance is pretty good here.
The main character is a "superman", which is a weakness more often than not but in this case I think the fullness of Dickson's "Childe Cycle" amply justifies the character.
I thought this book set up some really interesting and exciting ideas, but it really didn't go anywhere with them.
Towards the middle and later parts of the book the world that Dickson tried to delineate was a bit too messy for me.
Random allusions to Celtic, Norse and Finnish mythology seemed out of place in my opinion.
I haven't read any of the other Dorsai books and maybe it would have made more sense if I did, but as for now I thought the experience was just meh..
This story has a few nuggets of gold in it. A very poignant conversation of how human desire to be increasingly wrapped in technology does not make us happier or better, and another about as much as we strive for unity in the world we need diversity for the future of the human race to be successful. It reminded me a bit of the theme from Chapterhouse Dune. I will be checking out the rest of the series.
I probably read this book when I was younger, but I recently re-read it. The language is simple and accessible, but the ideas about causality and social upheaval are very interesting. When you consider that it was written over fifty years ago, there are interesting speculations about what the future we live in will be like.
Technically the first of the Dorsai series, although this was written after Tactics of Mistake, the story of Paul Formain who finds himself drawn to the mysterious Chantray Guild after a mining accident, costs him an arm. But what are the Guild to ask of him in return for an understanding of the alternate laws?!
Excellent old school military-scifi that delves into some fascinating bits of speculation regarding social engineering and the impact of technology that remain fairly novel and unique. This book reads quickly, serving-up a fun adventure that manages to pack a ton of worldbuilding in a short space. Very much recommended.
I... I think I read this, a decade or so ago. I have zero recollection of what it's about. If I ever feel like some slightly-cheesy-scifi-that's-less-cheesy-than-you-might-expect, I might come back to it. Having read quite a bit of Orson Scott Card, I wonder how it compares.
Paul the main character doesn’t know what his roll will be in the destruction of the world. In the end, doing nothing is the key. Another great short classic sci-fi book. A little hard to read at first? Then the last half of the book was a smooth read.
i meant to read Neuromancer and i somehow screwed up and ended up with this. i didn't realize i was reading the wrong book until i was 10 pages from the end and my coworker asked what i was reading and .... i realized i got the wrong book. ha ha hai'm neuro not no necro . . .
Aside from a couple really thought-inspiring comments on the nature of technology in society, this is a pretty poorly put together compilation of some odd sci-fi situations and environments that seem like they are being pulled out of a hat in random order.
