https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/880735.The_Mathematical_Theory_of_Communication
This imitation would lead his conception of entropy in communication or simply put the amount of average disorder in sequences of letters.Here is an excerpt from Emma by Jane Austen, let us explore what I just talked about:Emma Woodh*use, hands*me, clever* and rich,*with a comfortab*e home an* happy di*position,*seemed to*unite som* of the b*st blessings of e*istence;*and had *ived nea*ly twenty-*ne year* in the*world w*th very*little *o distr*ss or vex*her.*he was the you*gest *f the *wo dau*hters *f a most *ffect*onate* indu*gent *ather* and *ad, i* cons*quence*of h*r si*ter'* mar*iage* bee* mis*ress*of h*s ho*se f*om a ver* ea*ly *eri*d.
Perhaps the last great work of amateur science (I forget where I picked up this conjecture), "amateur" here being defined as anyone without a PhD (as opposed to "gentleman scientists" of a bygone era, men like Darwin, Lavoisier and Porter -- although, as emphasized in astronomy, this era may be returning with the advent of high-powered workstations and diffusion of open source simulation software.
Gentleman science is pretty cool).
There isn't much to add: this is one of the classics and if you have any serious interest in the topic, you owe yourself to read this at least twice.
The mathematics quickly went over my head but I like to keep this book around to look at in ignorant awe-- its that important. His Master's thesis-- written in 1940, is the most important scientific or technical paper of the 20th century-- is more my speed, he connects electrical switches using boolean algebra and invents digital logic circuits. Brilliant! (to quote the Guinness Irishmen) And it can be understood by a liberal arts major. Free to download at MIT's website.
A humble account by the father of information theory...the first sentence lets you know what you're getting into: "The word communication will be used in a very broad sense to include all of the procedures by which one mind may affect another." I probably wouldn't have read this book if it weren't for the assurance of broadness given from the beginning. It was a quick read, and I was left with the feeling that part of my mind had been tidied up.
Weaver started strong describing the breakthroughs, pretty exciting intro. Discrete channels are palatable anywhere, but the continuous ones are tricky. Okay, perhaps I had a "noisy" channel while reading Shannon's ideas. Don't try to read it in public places :D
Shannon's use of entropy in his theory is fabulous and an idea that seems as though it could show up in a Pynchon novel.
Mathematics is very important in the school.But is really difficult.
Shannon's original 1948 paper on information theory. A relevant read, even today.
The Mathematical Theory of Communication is a rigorous explanation of Digital Communication theory, or how a procedure generated and transmitted from one entity to another effects the state of the auxiliary system.Shannon partitions the essential elements of communication into these primary buckets: sources, source encoders, channel encoders, channels, and associated channel and source decoders.
This book sets the standard for rigorous analysis of binary communication, with a ruthless focus on the statistical efficiency of information transmission (given channel noise, etc.).
This is the theory that created the foundation for how "information" became associated with the aggregation of data, and how the gleaning of information from the randomness of data was a measure of order. Critical for information theorists and those interested in understanding the separation between information as a concept of meaning, and information as "probabilities" that delimit the number of arrangements of data into intelligible construction.
This is truly one of the most important and groundbreaking works of modern science. Shannon dared to introduce the notion of information as a measurable, quantifiable property of signals and has developed a powerful and surprisingly simple framework to describe it. A must read for anyone seriously interested in science and engineering and likely a compulsory reading for anyone in information engineering field.
A bit too technical for my abilities
A MUST READ <3
This book contains the landmark paper called "The Mathematical Theory of Communication" written by Claude E.
It is quite interesting, since the first part contains some additional information written by Warren Weaver.
The book itself contains some mathematics, as you might be able to tell from the title of the book.
There are some logarithms in there and some Calculus, so it isn't for those that despise math.
However, as I said, the initial part by Weaver does explain some of the implications of Shannon's findings without going into the math part of it.Would definitely read again if given the time.
Great book! Satisfied my morbid habit of reading classics off a book-like object. Weaver's encapsulating article was a wonderful surprise and nice guidance. And of course Shannon- such a beautiful mind!! Most impressed with the way he unfolded his logic, also his mastery of the art of using examples and diagrams. Nonetheless, for someone who's not very familiar with math, some continuous signal sections created lots of hair pulling moments, but I eventually pulled through.... anyways, it clarified some of my metaperception about communication in terms of perturbation, resonance, and delay.
Very informative and relatively understandable, particularly with Weaver's introduction as an aid. The concepts of ergodicity and information transfer as a probabilistic symbolic state machine come across clearly without needing to understand difficult mathematical proofs. The notion outlined by Weaver of the extension of some fundamental principles across all three "levels" of communication I also found to be extremely interesting, and reading through Shannon's paper made them all the more convincing despite Shannon's focus primarily on the mechanics of signal transfer.
Dense and intense, Shannon's book breaks down the technological communication challenges we have today. The beauty, of course, is that this book was written a half-century ago.The number-driven, engineer-focused theories in the latter half of the book were out of my range, but the first chapter alone blew me away and managed to quantify communication ideas we are struggling with right now.
It's kind of hard to review this - it's a very good book and more accessible than I expected. Very short and lucid but kinda profound in its impact? I guess I can see the reason the title went from "A Mathematical Theory of Communication" to "The Mathematical Theory Of Communication"
Nice reading. This publication initiated the Theory of Communication as is known today. I bought it on a second-hand bookstore and it is an edition of the year 1964.
I'm ashamed I've only read pieces.
This is a seminal work in both computer science and the physics of entropy. I cannot delay reading it any longer. Too many other books depend on it.
Classic.
