https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1041101.Miss_Hickory
Because ending the book by having your main character's (view spoiler)[head eaten by a squirrel (hide spoiler)] -- EVEN IF she was just a little doll made out of a twig -- is a really bad idea.
All of you aspiring authors out there who are looking to the Newbery award winners for inspiration -- take your lesson from this book.It was kind of an odd read -- a jumble of characters living life in the woods and occasionally crossing paths, but mostly just having really strange things happen to them.
Miss Hickory is kind of a sappy story, but not a bad one. The author's use of fantasy and nature elements make it stand out from most other doll stories.
Miss Hickory is an outdoor story, a talking animal tale that makes exquisite sense of the natural magic that brings the twig-bodied, acorn-headed doll to life.The animals in the story are both confounded and drawn to the fiesty no-nonsense Miss Hickory.
They learn from her as much as she learns from them, sometimes acts of friendship, sometimes dangerous exchanges, but all wrapped in authentic detail of the natural world.
Let's just say the author, Ms. Bailey, knows her outdoors.Overall, Miss Hickory is a story that reminds us to pay attention to nature, to get outside every day, and to lose our heads in order to feel our hearts and move about with our spirit without fear and doubt.
Miss Hickory is America's Struwwelpeter - a ghastly, grisly warning to children everywhere.
It seems the Newbery Committee that awarded the coveted medal to Miss Hickory was sending a message to the children of America:DON'T.
AN ASSHOLE.Seriously, what other message could they possibly be sending when the book they select as The Most Distinguished Book of the Year has an ending that features (view spoiler)[the main character being decapitated and eaten (hide spoiler)]?
Unless you want (view spoiler)[your head to be forcefully ripped from your torso and devoured by an animal (hide spoiler)], don't be an asshole.
A bonus star for the delightfully fucked-up ending.
Her humble, but clean, abode is made of corncobs nestled beneath a lilac bush.Miss Hickory is deemed alive by the family who made her and the forest animals who befriend her.When the family temporarily moves from New Hampshire to Massachusetts, Miss Hickory is left behind to fend for herself in the bitter cold winter.She is a selfish, self serving, vain and stubborn old coot who self righteously judges others, especially those who help her.Carolyn Sherwin Bailey weaves subtle humor and social commentary throughout via the personality given to Miss Hickory.For example, in observing the trouble-making crow as he leads a pack of fellow meanies, Miss Hickory remarks that he most likely is a gangster and really should be shot, but, will not be caught.The squirrel who tries to help by keeping her warm, alas does not save, but eats all his nuts and is lectured for his bad qualities but not praised for his good attributes.
A lot of reviewers found the story too weird...
Lot's of great stories are weird, just ask the Grimm Brothers.
I loved Miss Hickory.
She is a cranky, insecure nut who eventually finds her way, and that's a character I can relate to.
I loved that she is mean...
The weirdest part for me was the strange religious chapter in the middle of the book that seemed out of place and a bit heavy-handed, but I skipped it, since it irritated me.
The chapters follow the seasons, and nature is described in way that emphasizes it's magic.
This is one of the most creative children's books I have ever read. You really have to just go with it and let the fantasy take over. Beautifully written and illustrated, I remember being so worried about the fate of Miss Hickory and her wee acorn head. This title is in such danger of being forgotten. It is never on a recommended summer reading list anymore and you would be hard pressed to find more than one copy if even that in a bookstore. Definitely one of my childhood favorites.
I was hoping this would be as good as HITTY (it's also from a doll's point of view), but it wasn't... in fact, it was basically what I always thought HITTY would be... cheesy. And the illustrations are sort of creepy. Okay, but it's ALMOST worth reading the whole thing (it's pretty short) for the totally bizarre ending.
Do you want to know a secret?I really rarely ever HATE books.
I might despise them or wish I hadn't read them, but hating a book?
That's really extreme for me.
Except for Miss Hickory.
This book I HATED.
With a passion!
So bad that as a child (before I realized I didn't have to keep books I didn't like) I would put sticky notes on it that had skulls and crossbones that said things like "Read this and you will die." *tear* Just like Miss Hickory!!!
What kind of children's book ends with the doll dying!?!?!
Really sad book.
Miss Hickory is a charming little book! It was my absolute favorite when I was younger, I loved how she made her little clothes and her funny manner! I was only six when I read it and I told everyone I knew about it. Excellent and charming! Perfect for imaginative little readers who are just starting out!
This book is one of my all tim favorites! I read it a long time ago, but it is great. It shows personification of a doll who is trying to survive a harsh winter. This book won the Newberry Award in 1947.
I liked this book until the end.
The book is episodic, rather than having one main storyline.
Miss Hickory is a twig doll with a nut for a head, and she is indeed hard-headed.
When the people in the Big House go away for the winter without taking her along, Miss Hickory must brave the winter by herself.
I liked the cozy domesticity of her cleaning and preparing food stores and making her own clothes.
She is rather sharp with her fellow forest dwellers, however, and this ultimately leads to her rather horrific demise.
So here's what I wrote as a status update in about the middle of the book:Here's my take at halfway through: check out Rabbit Hill instead (if you're looking for personification of woodland creatures and want to stay in the Newbery family).
I don't know what's up with this one, and it's probably not fair that it's just 2 years after Rabbit Hill, but it's falling short and awfully weird....
and I don't have much else to say.I appreciated what the author tried to do with Christmas, but honestly?
This was just weird and odd and lame.
One of my favorite Newberry books!
Miss Hickory is a feisty character who's crabby and cranky and much older than the word "doll" would suggest.
Look at Miss Hickory's shoes on the cover of the book: they're Lady Slipper Orchids and that's a Hepatica growing next to her!
I read "Miss Hickory" in a day, loved every minute of it, and think gardeners and those who love YA books would like it as well.
If you do buy the book look for a hardcover version with the original cover and illustrations.
Her body is made out of an apple wood twig and her head is a hickory nut, however, Miss Hickory was no doll: she was a person.
Join Miss Hickory as she learns to trust her friends Crow, Squirrel and Mr. T.
William-Brown, the cat who help her find a new home and survive through winter.
With her help Hen-Pheasant starts the Ladies Aid Society for pheasants during the winter and Ground Hog, who is afraid of his shadow, comes out of his hole so spring will arrive.
Illustrated by Ruth Gannett using lithographs, this well loved novel will remain a children’s favorite for years to come.
Quaint, strange, nature-appreciative, symbolic (?)...these are my descriptors for the 1947 Newbery winner "Miss Hickory." Opinionated, prickly, at times ungrateful, but also brave, creative, nature-loving, at times helpful are adjectives that describe the strong character of Miss Hickory herself. She grows well throughout the short book. The last two chapters are, in turn, startling and quietly majestic. I'm glad I read "Miss Hickory." I'm also glad much of Children's Literature has improved greatly over the years.
I read this book back in 1973 and I still remembered it. I think the artwork burned into my brain. I reconnected with a friend, recently, from thirty years and we were talking about books. I noticed on her book list was Miss Hickory. WE had a discussion and I found this review: http://www.kindertrauma.com/?p=205which was followed by a trip to the library for the book. Ah, the good old days of warped children's stories.
Miss Hickory, with her apple-wood twig body and her hickory nut head, stars in this utterly charming New England pastoral fantasy.
While Miss Hickory is called a 'doll,' her part in the story is more like a narrator.
It's through her thoughts and actions that the reader is given a glimpse of the natural world.There are probably very few children (or young adults for that matter) today who have enough understanding of the natural world to appreciate the story.
A robin insults Miss Hickory by calling her a cowbird.
How many kids would visualize flowers with that reference?As the book comes to an end, Miss Hickory is given a new beginning.
I liked that touch; it gave me a deeper appreciation for the story.
I loved the illustration by Ruth Gannett.
and zebras and giraffes suddenly appearing like Noah's ark in the barn on Christmas eve!?) I found Miss Hickory a little choppy and it didn't flow easily for me.
Though I think everyone in the group, myself included, was horrified when the squirrel ate Miss Hickory's head.
I was so shocked that it took awhile for the lovely ending to register with me.
We were all curious about what Miss Hickory was up against for the Newbery Award in 1947.
1947 Newbery Medal recipient.In the category of "Newbery Winners Featuring Anthropomorphized Animals of the 1940s," "Rabbit Hill" is the clear winner.
Just awful.
And don't get me started on the end--well, let's just say that in novel writing class, I'm pretty sure that this possibly drug trip inspired conclusion is held up as a shining example of how to traumatize an audience of young girls.On the plus side, it's a quick read, and possibly the sheer joy of thoroughly panning such a colossally awful book makes up for the poorly conceived contents of its pages.
Newbery Medal Winner--1947This was...weird.
And kind of creepy.
The early Newbery winners haven't had much in the way of fantasy, but this one about a living doll made from a branch and a nut gives it a shot.
While some of Miss Hickory's encounters with different talking animals are somewhat entertaining, she's not a very likable character.
There's a creepy scene where (view spoiler)[a squirrel eats her head and her body just keeps on going (hide spoiler)]...maybe kids in the 40's liked that sort of thing, but it felt really out of place in a quirky children's book.
Didn't think I'd be saying this, but I really enjoyed this book!
In part it's because the book takes place in New Hampshire very close to where Dan grew up.
I think this would be an excellent book to read to a four or five year old and I'm already looking forward to Holly being old enough to understand the story.
Carolyn Bailey explains the real behavior of different animals through lovable characters.
At first I thought the writing was a little old-fashioned and stodgy, but the more I read the more I enjoyed the way the story was told.
This book is about a doll created from an applewood twig and a hickory nut for her head.
The creatures in the woods and on the farm come to life in this story.
Miss Hickory eventually found her purpose in life.
I rated this book 3 stars because the author created unusual characters and the unexpected ending to the story.
The intended age group for this John Newberry Medal award book is the Intermediate level for ages 7-12 years old.
The genre of this book is Fantasy.
Miss Hickory would appeal to young readers because the author constructss a fairy tale world along with illustrations to engage the reader.
Miss Hickory is a doll made from a forked twig from an apple tree and a hickory nut for a head.
She lives in a tiny doll house made of corncobs outside her human owners home, but her world is turned upside down after the family decides to spend the winter in Boston leaveing her behind.
Miss Hickory is aided during the long cold winter by farm and forest animals.
A little stubborn, she slowly learns to accept help from others, and to offer some assistance herself.
I would use this book in the classroom to teach children to work together.
This book was originally published in 1946. I hope kids will get to read this book. It's nothing like anything on the juvenile shelves. It's about a doll made out of a cherry branch with a chestnut head. She comes to realize how "hard-headed" she is and how her suspicious nature and rigidity and independent-to-a-fault streak has caused her to miss out on wonderful opportunities. All the animals in the forest have unique personalities and interesting social structures to their type of animal. It was a sweet book but also a thought-provoking book.
Do you know how many forms of "doll with a nut head" I googled before I found the title of this?I don't know how I got my hands on the book originally, but I loved this as a child. Despite the other reviews below, I was not disturbed by the ending, I thought it was actually quite nice. But I was a morbid child, so that might explain things.Loved it. Wanted to live in a bird's nest. Wish I still owned it.
This book was just...so weird. Not bad. Not good. Just really, really strange. I normally like strange and different, but this just didn't do it for my in any capacity. In fact, I spent a good portion of my time reading it trying to sort out what was actually going on. Were there metaphors hidden in these stories? If there were, I can't figure out what they were supposed to be about. Also that ending...a little bit traumatizing. If I had read this as a kid I probably would have freaked out.
A charming little book that I remember having read to us in elementary school. I love the nature stories and a doll made from apple branches (MacIntosh - my favorite apple) and a hickory nut living in a corncob house. In Germany, I bought my daughter dolls made from apples and plums dressed with faces and hats- very popular. The animals and flowers and views were described so perfectly!
