https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18029.Ring_for_Jeeves
One recalls the nostalgic words of the poet Kipling, when he sang “Put me somewhere east of Suez, where the best is like the worst, where there ain’t no ten commandments and a man can raise a small bristly moustache.” I’m not entirely sure if Wodehouse is lampooning or regretting the passing of an age of Imperial magnificence here, but it is worth mentioning that the current episode stands apart from other books in the series not only throught he absence of the first person narration by Bertie Wooster, but also by being unusually anchored in current Post-War social developments.
Based on a stage show (also written by Wodehouse), the book feels horribly like the prose adaptation of a stage show.
Surely a P.G. on form would know that to reveal the inner workings of such a marvellous machine was bound to be a mistake.Written in 1952/1953, and set in the 1950s, this is Wodehouse dealing with post-War Britain.
It really seems as if Wodehouse is saying that Malaysia, and other such places, would be in a far better state without these particular blots on the landscape.
Ring for Jeeves - Excellent humor though a bit adventerous for the usual Jeeves.
For starters Jeeves in the service of Bill Rowcester while Bertie is away in preparatory school for life in world of declining aristocracy.
Bill's sister Moke (and with no help from her husband Rory) has arranged for the Rowcester Mansion to be sold to a rich ex lover of Bill who believes in spirits and, for some odd reason, tribal hunters of the east.
I did find Jeeves a lot more wordy than usual (as if jeeves had an alter ego).A good read
Was a hilarious journey with Bill, the impoverished Lord of the Abbey, his fiancee Jill, a veterinarian, Jeeves, who has taken residence as his butler as Bertie is out at a school which teaches self-sufficiency.
Monica aka Moke, Bill's sister, and Rory her bumbling husband, are also in residence.
Enters, Rosie aka Mrs. Pottsworth, the rich lady who amassed wealth of her dead husbands, and Captain Bigger, the hunter of large wild animals, who is secretly in love with her.
Rather than be a Jeeves and Wooster novel ‘Ring for Jeeves’ is an adaption of a P G Wodehouse musical play of the same name.
Not very plausible as the whole point of Jeeves and Wooster is of course that Bertie cannot cope without the advice of his trusted valet.Secondly although Jeeves has always ‘endeavoured to give satisfaction’ and would do anything to help his master stopping short of breaking the law.
Jeeves has no compulsion here and readily breaks the law here.Thirdly the Jeeves and Wooster stories are written in the first person by Bertie himself and although Wodehouse is quite the writer he’s not in Bertie’s class.A pretty decent P G Wodehouse novel but a very poor Jeeves and Wooster book.
my idol has feet of clay aka p.g. wodehouse sometimes writes dudshate to say it but i really felt as i read this entry in the jeeves series that it was just cranked out to get the author a few bob.
somehow jeeves comes off as dull in this book and his propensity to find the perfect aphorism for every situation seems unappreciated by the characters, and even the author himself.
p.s. whoever wrote the back-cover copy for this edition of the book obviously hasn't read it recently, if at all.
captain biggar the big-game hunter is not who jeeves is working for but a man named rowcester.
Jeeves and Wooster without bonehead Bertie doesn't bare thinking about. Not bad, just needs that ZING! that one gets when the duo are together. Nevermind, Jeeves is still as cool and calm as ever.Made me snarf an' snort a few time so thats not so bad."Bugger this Jeeves I'm off to the Drones to get wasted with the chaps until I'm so drunk I do the left handed snakedance.""Indeed sir."Now that's one I would love to see in the books.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
I'd have to rank this as my least favorite Jeeves & Wooster book.
Probably because there's no Wooster in it.
There's plenty of Jeeves, more so than any of the others in the series that I can remember, but that's not necessarily a good thing.
He's out of character at times.
I don't know or care about these characters.
And finally, we're without Wooster's narration here.
In fact, this probably never should have been considered as part of the series.
This was a play Wodehouse wrote and it seems he added Jeeves for the sake of name-recognition.
It was a long ride; I was desperate for something to read and I never turn down Wodehouse.The description on the back had the main character listed as "the ninth earl of Towcester (pronounced Toaster)..." but the main character was actually the early of Rowcester (pronounced Rooster).
As with all other Wodehouse, it's just a nice way to pass the time and a good, fluffy, fun book full of characters you kind of wish you knew in real life.
I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who's just getting into Wodehouse, but for the forgiving Wodehouse fan this is a good way to spend a train ride.
However, the Jeeves of this book does things that he would never do in any of the other books: fleeing as a bookie's runner, organising thefts for money (rather than to appease Aunt Dahlia) and failing to solve any of the issues raised by the plot.
The happy ending occurs entirely without Jeeves brain arranging things.
As others have said, this is the only Jeeves book not narrated by Wooster and he is sorely missed.
All we get is Jeeves getting quotes right which is not much fun.Never thought I would give two stars to Wodehouse.
I hope I don’t give away too much of the plot when I say that Ring for Jeeves consists of a cast of bumbling characters getting themselves into a comic cluster-f*ck that only Jeeves can extricate them from.
There are convoluted muddles and unpleasant characters, but all are drawn for comic effect and none could be perceived as particularly malicious or malevolent.
This is not the case in Ring for Jeeves, where a cynical pall hangs over the story like a dark cloud.
The main characters, including Jeeves himself, are involved in lying, thievery, gambling, deception and threats of physical violence.
It's set in the 50s, with Jeeves returning as a temporary butler for, I want to say, Lord Bill Towesceter (pronounced toaster.) Bill is Bertie-like in that he's gotten himself entangled in a scheme to make some extra money before marrying the Chief Constable's daughter and Jeeves is there to help him out of it.
Though Bill isn't as clueless and needie as Bertie and really not as enjoyable a character.The real problem I had with this book was that the characters all feel like minor characters in a Jeeves and Wooster novel, they're the people you'd meet out at the country house while Bertie gets into trouble.
Ring for Jeeves features Jeeves without Wooster: Bertie is away and has temporarily loaned Jeeves to Bill Belfry, earl of Rowcester. Bill and Jeeves get into trouble while working as bookies to raise cash for Bill, who's engaged and needs money; hijinks ensue at Bill's country house. I really, really missed Bertie's first-person narration, and Jeeves seemed at a loss far more often than he ought; the plot was entertaining, but not enough to keep me from longing for the usual Jeeves and Wooster team.
A complete oddity. A Jeeves and Wooster book without Bertie Wooster. Instead Jeeves is working for Bill Rowcester (name not that far removed!) who essentially is Bertie without any qualms about getting married; he's also less morally scrupulous. That said the chemistry just isn't the same and bits of the book seem very laboured. What also doesn't help is that Bertie's voice is missing in the narration - instead a third person narrative is employed which jars after reading the others. An interesting (failed) experiment which was never repeated
Ring for Jeeves is the only Jeeves novel without good old Wooster; it feels lacking, and not just because Bertie isn't there. The characters and plot just aren't the winged things that Wodehouse usually unleashes across the pages, though moments of wit (it couldn't be otherwise) do keep one reading at a respectable pace.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Probably the least good of the Jeeves and Wooster series.
The last, and without Wooster!
Still good fun, but not in 'mid-season form'!The GR blurb:'Ring for Jeeves features one of Wodehouse's best-known characters, Jeeves.
It is the only Jeeves novel in which his employer, Bertie Wooster, does not appear (though he is mentioned).
Wodehouse adapted the story from a play, Come On, Jeeves, that he had written with his lifelong friend and collaborator Guy Bolton.The story opens with Jeeves's employer, Bertie Wooster, having enrolled in a school that teaches the idle rich how to fend for themselves.
There was a thread the other day in which someone had asked for recommendations in the Comedy genre.
Just read through the recommendations and PG Wodehouse seemed like a very popular choice and I remembered someone telling to start with his most legendary character - Jeeves.
It is an absolute laughter riot and now I know why PG Wodehouse comes so highly recommended.
I don't think I've ever laughed out loud so much ever while reading a book or even watching a movie.
There have been very few dark days in my life which could not be brightened by reading P.G. Wodehouse.
I'm glad to report that Wodehouse managed to cheer me up, even on a day when the real world felt like a bad joke.Adapted from a 1954 stage play into a rather rambling novel, "Ring for Jeeves" is acknowledge to be one of the weaker Jeeves stories, and the only one where Bertie does not appear.
However, even Wodehouse's second best is better than most other writers best.
A consistently hilarious character, he is a comic rendition of a hero from a Kipling or Somerset-Maugham story.
Bertie is mentioned a few times but remains off the page, with Jeeves temporarily ensconced with Lord Rowcester of Rowcester Abbey and his attempts to make enough money to marry his love, with the usual Wodehousian mishaps.The humour in this book felt a little forced to me.
For a start it is set in the 1950s, and talk of the War, the atom bomb and the Social Revolution sits uneasily with Jeeves' world as we have come to know it.
The book really did feel the poorer for its lack of Wooster, who is the perfect foil to Jeeves – himself, I feel, in this book becoming a parody of himself, I fear – and his lack is felt.
The brilliant thing about Bertie Wooster is that everything is enjoyable to read when narrated through his eyes.
I was horrified to open this book to a third-person narration, and then to realize that Wooster wasn't in the book at all.
I couldn't find a single character that I liked, or could say with any certainty that I understood (their individual psychology being somewhat obfuscated to me, probably because I didn't have Wooster to give me his colourful impressions).
But take courage: Bertie's back in the series' next book.
Ring for Jeeves  is another fairly routine Wodehouse novel, though it is distinct in the Jeeves and Wooster series because Wooster is away for this story.
Unfortunately, this means Bertie is not our narrator and we miss out on the Wodehousian slang that Bertie uses in his recounting of events.
This is also a post-war Wodehouse novel, and some of the lighthearted goodness is missing that was present in earlier Jeeves stories.
All in all Ring for Jeeves is not the best of the Wodehouse canon but still another tale of Jeeves saving the day.
No Bertie Wooster.
I miss him.
This one isn't as fun as the other Jeeves books that I've read but it's still good.
It has some good lines.
"The secret of a happy life was to get rid of the women at the earliest possible opportunity.
He had often observed that for sheer beauty and uplift few sights could compare with that of the female members of a dinner party filing out of the room at the conclusion of the meal." And "remember what Shakespeare said: 'a woman is only a woman but a good cigar is a smoke.'"
Usually i don't give one star to a book i complete reading, But because of a recommendation from one of my closed friends with big words about the great sarcastic P.G. Wodehouse, I decide to complete it anyway, So my opinion will be fair. It's a very silly novel suitable for children maybe, I even don't know why he wrote it as a novel and not a play, And to be honest the novel made me interesting in watch TV episodes presented Jeeves. You can say it's a bad comedy style of Agatha Christie.
I wondered for a moment in the beginning of Bill Rowcester could have been Bertie Wooster in disguise, but soon realized that their characters were very different. This piece of work feels like Wodehouse's attempt at exploring characters other than Wooster, and adopting a different style (third person rather than POV), and unfortunately doesn't therefore have the same kind of magic as the other in the Jeeves anthology. Even Jeeves is somehow lacking his usual superhuman abilities in this novel.
I find that the narrator/reader of the Wodehouse books makes a big difference in my enjoyment of the story. Jonathan Cecil read The Code of the Woosters, my first "Jeeves" experience, and I have compared each of the following two readers to his interpretation of the (same) characters--usually unfavorably. Wodehouse is my current favorite author, and Cecil is my favorite Wodehouse reader. Right ho!
The phosphorous in the fish which Jeeves loves so very much saves the day in Wodehousian world. This time its not Bertie but Bill (Lord Rowcester) who is at the receiving end of Jeeves's genius advice.When Jeeves has his tooth in the physcology of an individual , he has a complete grip of the situation and has the solution. Sir Roderick is also an entertaining character, who makes wrong comments at the wrong time.
The story is adapted from a play Come On, Jeeves that Wodehouse wrote with his friend Guy Bolton. Written in third person narrative and the only Jeeves & Wooster novel without *gasp* Bertie.
One of P. G.'s later (mid-fifties) novels. Best known for being only Jeeves book without Mr. Wooster. Fun read, but probably not one of his top 50 novels. (He wrote nearly 100, so not unworthy of the short read.)
