https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68378.Dragons_of_Spring_Dawning
Dragons of Spring Dawning concludes the Dragonlance Chronicles in a classic confrontation of good and evil, bravery and selfless sacrifice, and, naturally, love.
Oh, and dragons, a minor detail that.I will admit: my memories of this book are better than the book itself.* It is in some places rushed, in others underdeveloped.
The plot moves from cheesy to staged to improbable.
I moved on quickly and looking back from today’s perspective of a jaded fantasy pro, I am not surprised.
Dragons of Spring Dawning is a read down the memory lane.
Queen of Many Colors and of None, the Knights of Solamnia called her; defeated by Huma, banished from the land, long ago.Takhisis, Queen of Darkness, had returned.A disastrous defeat has all but destroyed the free nations of Krynn, and all hope appears to be lost.
And unlike the one in Winter Night, the storyline here really picks up again, almost going back to the level of Autumn Twilight.One group of characters that were particularly good in this final book were the villains.
The only villain getting a considerable amount of spotlight is the Dragon Highlord known as the Dark Lady (who has become one of my favourite characters in this series), but the others are probably even better.

Spring Dawning is nowhere near the best of the series (and I include the Chronicles in that assessment), but it does have have three things going for it: plenty of Fizban, definitive Raistlin, and all the evidence we’ll ever need to prove Tanis is a massive dickhead.I've gone into details on these things elsewhere, but it is worth pointing out again that Tanis is one of the most despicable protagonists ever to be loved by folks in any IP with any modicum of success.
Raistlin's to Tanis is one of those.Perhaps you are angry at me for badmouthing Tanis.
4.0 to 4.5 stars.
Great end to the first Dragonlance trilogy.
These books are fast paced, epic stories peopled with tons of great fantasy characters (elves, dwarves, knights, gnomes, dragons, magicians and sorcerers and even a minotaur sailor).
Plus the anti-hero Raistlin is exceptionally well done.
These books give you exactly what you are looking for when you pick them up and are the fantasy equivalent of "summer blockbuster movies." They are a ton of fun and will keep reading them as a fun change of pace from some of the more "intellectual" fantasy epics that I really like.
Highly Recommended!!!!
Άλλη μία από τις πολύ δημοφιλείς σειρές βιβλίων στο χώρο της φαντασίας αλλά εγώ δίσταζα να ασχοληθώ μαζί της πιστεύοντας ότι δεν πρόκειται για κάτι σοβαρό.
Στο πρώτο βιβλίο οι φόβοι μου επιβεβαιώθηκαν καθώς το βρήκα ιδιαίτερα ελαφρύ έως παιδικό, με όλη την ιστορία να είναι ουσιαστικά μία ακατάπαυστη εναλλαγή σκηνών δράσης.
Στο δεύτερο η κατάσταση βελτιώνεται θεαματικά καθώς τα πράγματα λίγο σοβαρεύουν ενώ οι συγγραφείς επιλέγουν μία πιο αργή αφήγηση που επιτρέπει στο κείμενο να ανασάνει.
Οπότε το συμπέρασμα που βγάζω είναι ότι αυτή εδώ η τριλογία έχει κάποια αξία, με λίγη υπομονή διαβάζεται ευχάριστα, υπάρχουν κάποιοι ενδιαφέροντες ήρωες αλλά γενικά δεν είναι τίποτα το σπουδαίο.
That's what I like about this series, it pushes you into a world you know with characters you can't help but love (except for Laurana and Tika).
I feel like am a kid again chasing dragons and saving the princess (well prince for me).“The ones we love most are those we trust least.” Even though this isn't the end of the adventuring group, it's a satisfying end with some hope for the future and an soft sort of ending that leaves the story open but you're not that salivating for the next book.
Το τέλος μια ενδιαφέρουσας τριλογίας. Είχε τις αδυναμίες αλλά και τα εντυπωσιακά της σημεία. Είχε ανατροπές αλλά και προβλέψιμα γεγονότα. Η πληθώρα των ηρώων δεν σε έκανε να βαριέσαι. Ο Ρέστλιν ίσως ο πιο ενδιαφέρον ήρωας. Ο Τάνις ο πιο εκνευριστικός, η Λοράνα η πιο δουλεμένη καθόλη τη διάρκεια του έργου. Ποικιλία για να διαλέγεις ανάλογα τα γούστα. Λυπήθηκα που τελείωσε γιατί κράτησε καλή συντροφιά!
What if it does end in darkness, Tanis wondered for the first time. What will become of the world? What will become of those I'm leaving behind?The darkness might conquer, but it could never extinguish hope. And though one candle, or many, might flicker and die, new candles would be lit from the old.Thus hope's flame always burns, lighting the darkness until the coming of day. The first 1/3 of this book was dragging on and on for me. The charm and clever wit was pushed to the side. I felt impat
And though one candle, or many, might flicker and die, new candles would be lit from the old.Thus hope's flame always burns, lighting the darkness until the coming of day.
Eventually things do pick up, though much of the charm from the first two books is lost.I noticed this series leaves large holes in the plot so people may want to go read other novels about the missing adventures.
This is tough when it happens to THE MAIN CHARACTERS.However, the plot of the story was pretty exciting.
There were some plot twists I didn't see coming, and I would pick up this series again in the future to see what happens.
No spoilers.This dark third entry and conclusion of the Dragonlance Chronicles is very character driven, with no real major battles of the armies or dragons from the previous entry. Here there is much betrayal, treacherous doings. we see weakness and frailty in our characters, amd some new ones along the way. Really enjoyed Fizban. Each (Raistlin, Tasselehoff, Tanis, Laurana) of them grow into different people by the end of the book, realizing and asserting their true identities.Of course there is a sequel trilogy, Dragonlance Legends, which brings back some of these characters.
Even so, it contains some excellent moments while serving as both a pseudo ending to the War of the Lance and a fine introduction to the Legends series.Perhaps it is Dragons of Spring Dawning's transitional position that makes it impossible for it to be the best of the three.
Others call him „Paladine”.He is, probably, God.NB The book is amazing.
The authors could have reached the same goal just making her a „de facto” commander of Palanthas, which would have been quite natural: the Commander of the Knights and anyone else would have followed her for her dragonlance and for her brother`s „pet” dragons.
However, the authors favored policy over the natural course of the story.Beyond this, the book is, as I said afore, absolutely amazing.
The love triangle between Tanis, Kitiara and Laurana was a bit more in your face and annoying in this book.The most shocking thing for me was the tragic deaths of two of the main characters, but then again Harry Potter gets a lot darker and many characters die.The humor is what makes this series cool.
Most modern fantasy I read has little humor if any (with the exception of Mark Lawrence) and the light humor aspect is what makes Dragonlance Chronicles is a perfect summer read.I think Raistlin is the best character in the entire series.
I started this series because some friends told me that they loved it more than The Lord of the Rings.
They did say that it starts out a little rough, but once you get into it the story really takes off.
Well, after finishing the book I kept wondering when it was going to get better.
After finishing it I decided that I needed to re-examined all the recommendations that these people gave me.
Comparisons to Tolkien aside, this is a badly written book.
From a grammar position all the way to the overall narrative structure and character story arcs, this book (and the trilogy) is simply awful.
Tabii ikinci kitaptaki Laurana saçmalıklarının burda da devam etmesini görmek biraz can sıkıcı.
Ama bununla birlikte Raistlin benim için kitabın ve hatta serinin en ilgi çeken karakteri olduğundan severek okudum.
Öyküdeki süprizler ve şaşırtan olaylar hikayeye insanı ne kadar bağlıyorsa Tanis'in bu kadar öne çıkartılmasına anlam veremediğim bir karakter olarak iç düşünceleri de bir o kadar itiyor.Ejderha Mızrağı serisini Unutulmuş Diyarlar serisinin aksine tam anlamıyla benimseyemememin nedeni Tanis gibi anlamsız( en azından benim için öyle) karakterlerin çok öne çıkarılması sanırım.
Ejderha mızrağının devamı niteliğindeki efsaneler serisinde daha çok Raistlin ve mümkünse "hiç" miktarda Tanis okumayı ümit ederek seriye devam edeceğim.

-Remate a la trilogía que simbolizó mucho tiempo el cénit del marketing cruzado de género.-Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. Tanis vuelve con sus amigos, sin contarles toda la verdad de su relación con la Señora del Dragón Kitiara, cuando el grupo debe escapar y terminan en un barco donde su timonel es Berem, y… pero qué más da, estimados lectores, porque el “poder” de este libro va más allá de sí mismo. Tercer libro de la saga Dragonlance y tercer libro de la trilogía Crónicas de la Dragonlance.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
The Dragonlance series was a love of mine as a young teenager. They are one of the main reasons that I love fantasy so much today. These are the perfect young adult fantasy novels that are very well geared towards boys...I loved them..
Πέραν αυτού, τα κεφάλαια είναι έτσι δουλεμένα ώστε δεν μπορείς να σταματήσεις να διαβάζεις καθώς όταν φτάσεις στο τέλος ενός σε παρακινεί να συνεχίσεις μιας και η εξέλιξη της ιστορίας και η συνεχής δράση δε σε αφήνει να πάρεις ανάσα, αλλά και να αφήσεις το βιβλίο από τα χέρια σου.Θα έλεγα ότι στην αρχή μου θύμισε αρκετά Άρχοντα, και σκέφτηκα ότι πρόκειται για μια «αντιγραφή», πρέπει να πω ότι γρήγορα ξεπέρασα αυτήν την λανθάνουσα άποψη μου, μιας και σε επιβεβαίωση των παραπάνω οι συγγραφείς έρχονται να βάλουν την δική τους ξεχωριστή σφραγίδα.
3.75/5La verdad que al final de todo, esta trilogía me terminó gustando bastante. Los 2 primeros libros no me convencían del todo, si bien me daban ganas de seguir leyendo y tenían algo que me gustaba y atrapaba. Pero este nada que ver: me pareció un buen final y antes de éste, grandes aventuras, grandes cambios en los personajes, encuentros, desencuentros; en sí, el más completo de todo.Terminé encariñándome bastante con algunos personajes y con ganas de seguir leyendo más trilogías/sagas de este mundo. El final, además, deja todo bastante abierto para seguir con más aventuras…
Le habría puesto cuatro estrellas si Raistlin no se hubiera pasado el 50% del libro en paradero desconocido, porque cuando por fin vuelve a aparecer es como el segundo advenimiento de Cristo XD sus partes son muy épicas, pero las de los demás son, en general, aburridas.Never forget los elfos sirenos delfines exhibicionistas polimorfos. Se les fue la olla pero bien a esas alturas, no le puedo poner cuatro estrellas a un libro que tiene ESO. Raistlin salva este libro, para mí. Seguido muy de cerca por Fizban y Tas. Pero ya.
Fantastik türünde bir kitabın nasıl bu kadar sıradan ve klişe olduğunu anlayamadığım Bilge Adamın Korkusu gibi olmasından korkuyordum ama neyseki olmadı.
I loved the way her character developed and it felt like the book was going to be Laurana's story, but then she goes and does something very silly and drops out of the story almost completely, reappearing again only when required to be Tanis' love interest, to give him a reason to feel conflicted.
It's lazy writing, and irritating because it supports the idea that people in different groups or cultures all have the same characteristics and behave in the same way.Dragons of Spring Dawning lost the fluffy, fun vibe that made the earlier books such fun to read.
Nevertheless, the tale of the diverse group of companions fighting against the Dark Queen and her evil dragons was wrapped up relatively neatly, although I found the ending a bit rushed.I didn't like Tanis quite as much in this book as I did in the first two.
(hide spoiler)]Tas and Fizban remain two of my most favourite characters in this series.
And, as for Fizban, I knew all along there was something more to him than the muddle-headed wizard persona he presented to the world!Raistlin's obsessive bid for power turned him into a very creepy, cold character in this book, even more so than in the first two.
My brother-in-law told me that many people love the world of Krynn, that it's a fantasy world many people feel attached to.
I would definitely read more books about Krynn, but I want them to be written by Weis and Hickman.
I love how the companions developed and changed from Dragons of Autumn Twilight to this book.
I would definitely recommend this series to people who love fantasy.
And I'm contemplating reading Dragons of Summer...something...even though it takes place many years after the ending of this book and isn't fully connected to it, from what I understand.
İlk kitap ve ikinci kitap güzeldi, hareketliydi ama bazen durgunlaşıp aksiyondan çok uzak oluyordu ancak bu kitap..
Gerçekten çok güzel bir kitaptı, okurken diğer kitaplarda ki gibi sıkılmadım, açıkçası ilk iki kitap okurken bazen sıkıyordu ve bir oturuşta uzun uzun okuyamıyordum, bu kitapta bu sorun çok olmadı.
İlk kitaplarda başlayan olayların bir çoğu bu kitapta açıklığa kavuştu.
Bir çok gizem aydınlandı, bir çok sorun çözüldü.
Çok fazla olay vardı ve bu okurken çok keyif verdi.
Aksiyonu bol bir kitaptı ve gizemde güzel bir ölçüde olunca gerçekten çok güzel bir kitap olmuş.
Seriye uygun ve çok iyi bir final kitabı olmuş.Daha fazlası için; http://yorumatolyesi.blogspot.com/201...
Flat, one-dimensional, repetitive, shallow.
If you are the type of reader who constantly forgets what color hair all the characters have, this is the book for you.What I can't understand is how despite all of that, these books are so darn appealing.
They fit snugly in that part of your brain that likes good old cookie-cutter predictability and simplicity.
Terrible dialogue, ridiculous characters with one or two traits that govern everything they do.
It's like Hercules The Legendary Journey in book form.
It was like I couldn't relax without Zen Gesner's chest hair all over the screen.
He'd make a good Caramon.
3.5 starsI found that some parts of the story were a little long sometimes(more than with the two previous volumes). Satisfying and very intriguing conclusion for the trilogy. As we all know(right?) the world of Dragonlance(D&D in general) is complex and vast and it really seems like this Chronicles conclusion also serves as a prelude to the Legends trilogy. So, not always a passionating read, might be a little dull sometimes, but not enough so I wouldn't pick up the book to continue my reading. Overall it's still a very good book!
Still enjoying re-reading this series. I'm not so into the Mormon subtext that pervades the Dragonlance books (not a slam against Mormonism itself, mind you, just seems weird in a fantasy series). Since I first read Dragonlance books back in the 80s, I always identified with Raistlin Majere. Not quite as much in my old age, but it's interesting to re-read and see why I loved the character so much . . .
Look, these books aren't really THAT good, but I love them. So I'll give them a bunch of stars and that's it :-p
