https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32078787-once-and-for-all
2.25/5 stars  Ambrose would again reach out a hand, asking me to dance. And this time, I'd say yes.  I decided to quote the very last sentence of this book because it was my favorite line throughout this entire thing. It meant it was finally  over.  warning: unmarked spoilers Huge thank you @SarahDessen, as I almost forgotten what disappointment felt like. This book was supposed to be  good.  It was supposed to be  cute . It was supposed to make me want to actually leave my house and fall in lov
I don't want her coming after me.Was I suppose to like Ambrose?
Later in the book, Ambrosia stole a dog from a possibly abusive owner.
Until Ambrosia does and Louney freaks out for no reason and the second half of this entire book they don't talk to each other.
I don't really care to go back and figure it out) and Louney decides that she loves Ambrosia and makes out with him whILE SHE'S STILL ON A DATE WITH BEN.
Ambrosia was annoying from the beginning to end while Louney was consistently boring.
It’s lovely inside and out.
I received a copy of this book yesterday morning and began reading it the same evening.
That’s crazy when you think about it, since I read on average one page per minute, meaning that I spent 6 hours straight reading this.
It’s definitely not a story with happy-go-lucky kind of characters and an extremely light atmosphere.
Ambrose, the love interest, is the type of guy who lives life one day at a time.
Louna is not interested in a relationship after what happened to her ex-boyfriend, but that doesn’t mean she’s an Ice Queen.
Either I've outgrown Sarah Dessen, or this was a huge dip in quality. I'm going go do some... homework. It'll be a better use of my time than reading this mess was. ● where ● the ● FUCK ● is the plot ● ?? ● how can you publish a book that has neither plot nor character developmentTHE 2015 DESSEN STAN IN ME IS DISAPPOINTED.It started out good. It even made me laugh — and I found myself shipping loony tunes and embryo. “I think,” he continued, ignoring me, “that we met cute. Like, you dropped a ki
● how can you publish a book that has neither plot nor character developmentTHE 2015 DESSEN STAN IN ME IS DISAPPOINTED.It started out good.
After 50% of the book, the characters STOP TALKING TO EACH OTHER BC EMBRYO SHARED HIS “FEELINGS” AND LOONY TUNES GOT EMBARRASSED.But wait!
WHERE IS THE SENSE.I may have been willing to overlook everything else that went wrong if not for the fucKING ROMANCE but tough luck: ● william and her mum are both “coupling” ● she completely ditched jilly, her best friend of Years ● NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT ● nothing made sense tbh ● YOU DON’T HAVE SEX WITH A STRANGER ON THE BEACH IF YOU’VE KNOWN HIM FOR TWO HOURS ● is this NA ● didn’t anybody tell you about stranger danger ● she’s in denial about her bf dying,, and what does she do about it?
I would put this in the top 8 if you really want to get detailed.I love the aspect of wedding planning in this book!
You don't want to love him but you just do.
He had a great heart but I wasn't a fan of him dating a different girl literally every other day but he definately had amazing growth!I liked the romance in this book but didn't love it.
I wanted more romance, sooner.
Like I said, I enjoyed this book because I love Dessen's writing and her characters and plot and this one was no exception.
Louna is a teen girl who works for her mom's successful wedding planning business.
He doesn't do commitment and his "intention is to have, well, no intention." The narration jumps back and forth between the present day and the story of Louna's first love.
Louna had been in love before but then (view spoiler)[the boy was killed in a shooting.
The relationship/romance was a smaller part of the plot and not very emotional, but I did like that the story was more about Louna's personal growth.
I didn't particularly like or connect with the characters as much as I did in other Dessen books, either.
I legit forgot I had to write this review lol jokes on me Let’s be real, no one actually goes to weddings for any reason BESDIES the food and the CAKE obvious.
and the entire theme of this majorly disappointing book is weddings.
Let’s start at the beginning with what I loved:(Possible **spoilers** ahead)• The fact that Louna’s mother, Natalie, and her business partner (and best friend), William, weren’t hopeless romantics when it came to weddings.
He’s all sunshine and it’s a challenge trying to not get swept up.• Also, that time he stole a dog from a possible abusive store owner left me with my mouth wide open in both surprise and laughter.“I didn’t hear him get called anything, did you?
It would only be a matter of time before someone came along, walking with their dog or kid, making it clear that the beach, and the night, were no longer ours alone.
Louna, the only daughter of a successful wedding planner, harbors a cynical attitude towards true love.
These flashbacks were saddening, but I loved them nonetheless because they really helped me connect with Louna.I also liked how this book explored the world of wedding planning, which is apparently both fun and stressful.
Come to think of it, this book is quite satirical, in a sense that it cleverly depicts how people can be so obsessed with having a perfect and ostentatious wedding, as if it would ensure the success of their marriage.
Louna hurt the feelings of a certain character, and she got away with it so easily.
Sarah Dessen books usually make me cry a good cry.
*sniffs*I really tried to like it but everything I look for in her novels are missing in Once and for All. Usually her books don’t have exciting plots but I still find them substantial.
One night though where everything happens including you know what already and saying “I love yous” is just stretching it too far.
If you want to read her books, I suggest you start with the other ones I have already read and loved.
As a teenager, I truly thought no one could write a contemporary like Sarah Dessen. I'm not sure if I'm romanticizing her earlier books, but this paled in comparison. The characters were flat, the plot seemed pointless, the romance was lame, and the writing style was extremely basic. The characters in this felt recycled - Louna was like the girl from The Truth About Forever and Ambrose was a low budget version of Dexter from This Lullaby. After this experience, I'm not sure if I should ever reread my old favorites because I might be sorely disappointed.
Especially as someone currently planning a wedding, it was a delight to read.And then BAM all of a sudden there's a shoot shooting sub plot?
Is this a debut author unsure how to add conflict to her story?
On her 13th book.Why didn't the MC feel like she was dealing with the psychological fallout of her first love dying in a school shooting?
Why did it feel like her only struggle was "learning to love again"?
But I was shaking my head the whole time because it was predictable and kept delving deeper into tired clichés the further we went.And please don't act like school shootings are so common place now that we don't need to treat them seriously, even in light fluffy books.
let me just begin with the mc & the love interest, just the enough reason to drop out of the book for me.
Louna is such a dull & boring character.
an annoying love interest with want to be funny lines on his part, does not make it likeable or swoon worthy or even little bit interesting.the guy has more issues than the mc.
plus the character thinks that his annoying ness is a reason to be overconfident.
they just go through this terribly slow book to just get to this end.
4.5./5 • i was in a huge reading slump when i began Once and for All, so i'm really surprised i binged it in two days.
everything about the story was super cute!
this was my first sarah dessen book (jk i read one in the early early days of YA and i remember NOTHING so i count this as my first) and there were lots of good things said; Once and for All didn't disappoint.
it's a solid contemporary romance.
there's nothing wrong with it, but it also didn't make me super emotional.
even though the relationship with Ethan is Ridiculous (the "I love you" ??????), it's still more interesting than Ambrose and Louna.
I think it's because Louna doesn't really have any other characteristics, hopes, dreams, or personality traits outside of being cynical and hardened by her pseudo-boyfriend's death in a school shooting.
I cannot believe that the catalyst for the end of this book is Louna thinking that Ambrose has been hit by a car.
(1) Girl you were not at this high school when this school shooting went down or there for any of the aftermath (2) how gross is it to have this be the reason that Louna starts making out with Ambrose?
[3.75] 3rd book completed for BookTubeAthon!So the beginning took me a while to get into, the middle was perfect and gave me feeeeels, but the ending didn't leave me as satisfied as I wanted. I needed more depth to it and it felt rushed. Sarah Dessen is still pretty great though! On a mission to read all of her books.
I found this romantic story predictable and sappy.This novel is about Louna -the daughter of a successful wedding planner- and Ambrose, a funny and nice guy who has not yet found "the" girl.
I did not enjoy the novel because I could see everything that was going to happen and that fact turned the reading experience into a boring one.
There is a backstory related to Louna's past which was also easily foreseeable based on how she reacted to some news she heard at the beginning of the novel.Overall, it was ok.
Do NOT be dissuaded by my reading experience with this novel, go ahead an read it if you enjoy contemporary romantic novels.
Como um verdadeiro peso morto para a família, a mãe de Ambrose resolve oferecer uma quantia extra de dinheiro para a mãe de Louna empregar o moço em sua firma durante o verão, de modo que ele faça alguma coisa útil da vida e pare de aborrecer a todos com seu jeito mimado de ser.
Senti falta de alguns desfechos, como por exemplo, gostaria de ter lido sobre como ficou o relacionamento de Ambrose com sua mãe e irmã, já que eles não se davam bem no início da obra e também explorar melhor os novos personagens que foram inseridos no final da narrativa.
That experience threw me off reading Dessen too.But this book introduced me again to her writing, and this time the right way.
My main focus, even while I was reading, were the plot and the characters.I really loved the story and the setting it was in.
For the first time in a while I actually enjoyed having the romance part of the story slightly in the background.It's a great book, and I'm glad I got the chance to read it and write this review before it's release.Copy received through NetGalley.
SHRIEKING IM SO HAPPY AND EXCITED AAAAHHH
I have no idea why no one in this book ever takes Ambrose aside and talks about Louna's past.
I should have known this book was going to be a dud after the insta-love between the main character (Louna) and her boyfriend Ethan resulted in them having beach sex after knowing each other for a few hours.
I think if the book had ended at a certain scene(view spoiler)[When Louna kisses Ambrose and is all this is what I need or whatever she was going on about in that scene it at least would have worked a bit better.
This was probably one of my least favourite Sarah Dessen books that I have read, unfortunately.
I thought about marking it as a DNF more than a few times because I knew how it was going to end and I wasn't having fun while I was reading it but I decided to stick it out.
To sum up my whole experience with this book with one word it would be the word "meh"...
Ending - meh.
Characters - meh.
I would not recommend this but I will still read more by Dessen because she can be a great writer and storyteller.
if this book is a event of wedding of the century, i will walk out from the event no matter how killer conga they can dance. it is disappointing book. i like along for the ride better than this book. nothing click in this book for me.
This book tells the story of a wedding planner’s daughter and contains a main character who is a real thinker.
The main character is the daughter of a wedding planner, but doesn’t believe in true love herself.
I found her character to be the perfect narrator for a book like this, and she brought a lot of heart to the book.I really enjoyed the use of flashbacks in this book.
However, I still liked being transported back to Louna’s past for an explanation of her actions.Once and for All is an adorable contemporary with wedding planning aspects and a logical main character.
Edited 02/06/2017After Saint Anything and this blog post, I was worried that Sarah Dessen would never publish another book.
And now, back to enjoying summer while it lasts…..Here is the PW announcement:Dessen Goes “Once” Around at Viking KidsIn a world right deal, Regina Hayes and Ken Wright at Viking Children’s Books bought Sarah Dessen’s Once and for All. The novel, which is the author’s 13th, follows a just-graduated high schooler with a cynical view of romance and marriage.
I absolutely LOVE this quote from Hayes in the article where she speaks to Dessen's writing style: "The girls in your books are always on a journey.
trigger warning: school shootingsI really missed Sarah Dessen and her heartfelt novels. This one reminded me a lot of her older books, but I really liked it nevertheless. Although Saint Anything has better ratings, Once and for All seemed like a better read for me. Louna is a complex character who's dealing with a lot of things and the dynamic between her, her mom and William might be a bit peculiar, but I really connected with her and wanted to see how she develops throughout the novel.   "Eve
trigger warning: school shootingsI really missed Sarah Dessen and her heartfelt novels.
Louna is a complex character who's dealing with a lot of things and the dynamic between her, her mom and William might be a bit peculiar, but I really connected with her and wanted to see how she develops throughout the novel.
I was really excited when I saw that the book will revolve around Louna's mom's wedding planning business & I absolutely enjoyed being dragged into their both insane and amazing world.
The ending was a bit too convenient, even for Sarah Dessen, but, overall, I enjoyed reading another one of her books.
Love ... love ... love ... this is why Dessen is one of my favorite authors!! She tells a great story and has me falling for her characters. More thoughts to come when I have time to gather them. For now, let's just say this will be one of my fave YAs this year. Yup! I'm pretty sure.
THIS is what a Dessen novel felt like when i first found her books. i didn't enjoy her last book (Saint Anything) but this one made me so happy and giddy. The last few chapters could have been better but I'll take them as they are.
Louna was a nice protagonist to follow, though I did feel certain moments and revelations felt a bit rushed.Full review:I still struggle to try to frame my thoughts around Sarah Dessen's "Once and for All" - because this story has a lot to unpack with being a slice of life romance paired with a overarching story of grief and coming to terms.
But Louna, Natalie, and William are a cynical trio: so much that they even take bets on the success of each wedding after every affair is over and they're cleaning up.
You know what you get with a Dessen novel, and this book came along at a good time for me.
The supporting cast of characters is humorous and realistic: Louna's best friend Jilly, whose parents have a food truck business and saddle Jilly with her many younger siblings; William, with his bride-whisperer tendencies; Natalie, and her rigid obsession with her business; and girl-crazy Ambrose, who verges on stereotype, but manages not to.
August 20, 2016: I'm actually tearing up. I started reading Sarah's books in middle school, right when things started to get, well, hard. The thought that this book will come out right after I graduate from High School, knowing that her books will truly take me all the way to the end of this journey, is making my heart swell. Let's do this, Dessen.October 6, 2016: THE COVER!!! THE EXCERPT!!! It's all so Sarah Dessen!!!!!!
