https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19911641-they-shall-not-have-me
Three perspectives of war are given in this one book: firstly the almost unimaginable experience of defeat of an army (1940); secondly the utter degradation and inhumanity of slavery in captivity, and thirdly a daring escape to freedom (1943).
Provided that we continue to read and ponder upon first-hand accounts such as Hélion’s, and do not forget, nor rewrite history (particularly observing the dangers of fiction presented as fact, and uncontrolled immigration); then bountiful economic resources, scientific and engineering inventiveness and unselfish politicians permitting, we can perhaps grasp and successfully construct a happier, cooperative future.
This true account of life in a prison camp and escape was amazing! At times it was humorous, sad, uplifting, and horrifying. Sometimes two or three at the same time. I was glad to see it printed in an e-book and wouldn't mind owning a hard copy myself.
Interesting story of the author's internment as a French POW in WWII and escape.
He returned to the French army at the eve of WWII and was captured in the debacle which he narrates well.
He escaped in 1942, eventually returning to the US where he wrote this memoir (in English).Although I enjoyed listening to this the book on Audible, it requires more of a critical apparatus.
Helion wrote this book in conjunction with the US Office of War Information.
Almost poetic accountThe author's account of his and fellow prisoners- of-war's forced labor and deprivation is almost poetic.
The barbaric conditions and humiliations are unthinkable to those of us who have always lived in a free society.
Little by little he reveals these to us in gentle, sometimes refined language, which amplifies the horror for us in a way that crude words never could.
There were some areas that were a bit slow where he detailed what the different secret crews did to help the prisoners, but they all suffered mightily and I will not complain while I sit in comfort in a free country.
This was a straightforward account of a French soldier who became a Prisoner of war and eventually escaped.
Although the story was told in a matter of fact way, it was also very interesting and painted a picture of what life was like that was easy to relate to.
It was especially interesting to me that this book was written while the war was still going on.
The book was also surprisingly even handed.
It seemed to paint an accurate picture of the Germans that the author encountered, with both their flaws and virtues, without villainizing them for propaganda purposes.
The beginning and the end were very compelling and fun to read. The middle dragged on a bit.
I just couldn't get into the book. It didn't hold my interest.
I read the book not kindle
This is a book written by a French soldier who was a POW of the Nazi's who escaped and wrote this book while the WWII was still being fought.
A very interesting book.
I read the Kindle version.
I would have liked this better had there been maps showing where the places were, including the modern spelling of the place names.
I tried following along with a road atlas of Europe.
Still I recommend this for fans of WWII.
Best book I have read on first-hand account of life in a Nazi forced labor camp.
Another great story of survivalGreat story, but I found the style in which it was written a bit confusing to follow at times... Less is sometimes more. The last 20 mins of the book (depending on your reading speed) does a good job of "wrapping it up" and the person retelling of the timeline from escape from the camp until true freedom was very helpful to me.
Sad story of the imprisonment of a soldier and how his life paused when he was imprisoned by the Germans during WWII. The writing gets a bit tedious as you are taken on his unpleasant journey, but really captures the finer details quite well.
Ever wanted to find out what it was like to be in the French military and imprisoned in a German camp in World War II? This memoir provides extensive detail of the hardships experienced by the author. It took several chapters to get hooked, but half-way through, it was a page-turner.
Memoir by a French soldier who apparently once lived in the U.S.; relates his life as a prisoner of war and subsequent escape.The author spent 20 months as a POW, then escaped and made his way to unoccupied France in March 1942. The book was published in 1943.
Sometimes the stream-of-consciousness writing was a little hard to follow, yet the detail in this remarkable testimony made it impossible to put down.
WWII POW story intrigues the reader. 4 stars. lVery well written, almost poetic at times. Gives details of the life of a POW that I have never read before.
Dull, impersonal, occasionally pompous.
