https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144185.The_House_of_Medici
The glitz precludes us seeing its source.The Medici were formidable, but as so often happens with these powerful clans, the source of excellence had already disappeared by the time all its splendour shone in its full marvel.This family appears clearly on the map in the second half of the 14thC, that is, after the Black Death, when society was beginning anew.
Unaware of what had fundamentally changed, he Medici family entered the 16th century with the inertia of its splendour.If Cosimo’s arms had been:It is with his descendant Cosimo the First (really the second) that they acquire the extra paraphernalia and become this:For the position of manager of a bank had transformed into that of Grand Duke.
The title of the book would seem indicate the focus of the book is HOW the Medici came to power and HOW they eventually lost it, but these subjects are treated almost as secondary.
I bought the book to find out why the Medici, rather than any other Florentine family, rose to dominate the city for so long, and why they eventually lost their grip on power.
A more accurate title for this book might be "The Medici: Their Lives and Times" or "The Medici: A Cultural History".
Gossipy, broad overview of Italian history. Not much political analysis but a lot of description and colorful anecdotes. It's a good introduction. I'll look at more narrowly-focused histories to learn about areas that interested me.

So ever since I had to do a project on Catherine de Medici back in me school days, I have had a fascination with the Medici family.
This book is an in depth look at this Florentine family beginning with Cosimo de Medici in the 1430s and ending with the death of Medici family line in 1737.
The Medici family was influential in art, politics, and especially economics.
It does not get into the Medici members, like Catherine, who lived their lives outside of the Florentine sphere of influence.
I studied many of those great works in me art history classes and I loved getting a different perspective on things.
I'm a big fan of the Assassin's Creed series, and the second game introduced me to the Medici and features both the Pazzi conspiracy and Savonarola's bonfires of vanities as major plot points.
But once Cosimo and Lorenzo have been left behind, I'm probably on the same footing as most other readers: interested in the history, but with little to no background.I think that this would be a slightly more satisfying experience if it hadn't been a complete overview of the Medici family.
It was a great book to get a grasp on the chronological history of the entire Medici family.
I was pleased to see this non-fiction book was not a difficult, dry, or heavy read.It never fails to amaze me how many amazing artists lived in the same period of time.
With religion being the "politics" of that time, it is not surprising to discover that Popes were more like politicians than religious leaders.
They blatant adventures outside the religious spectrum failed to either surprise people or cause any rebellion it seems.
This is extremely dated. Other than very basic info on the dynasty I can not reccomend this.Needs to be updated.
A really good introduction to understanding Florence and its long relationship (Love/hate/love/hate/love) with the Medici Dynasty. A real fascinating look into their life and how they gave Florence a name for art and culture and philosophy. I do feel that I need to read a bit more into this family. Cannot get enough of them.
This is a pretty great all-purpose history of the Medici family as well as of Florence during (and immediately following) the Italian Renaissance.
It’s a popular history, so it’s a quick and easy read – free from the pedantic ramblings of more scholarly books.
It’s not, however, a particularly good source for art history (a general knowledge of the artistic achievements of the Renaissance might be a good prerequisite).
There are fine anecdotes told in a quick, lively style.
I recommend it highly as tangential reading for anyone looking at other aspects of this period more closely, be they artistic, financial, political, etc.
Lots of facts and information but very little of it integral to understand the reasons for the families rise and fall.
I started reading this book while anticipating a trip to Italy, and more specifically Florence.
Half-way through I did purchase the audiobook, which is really great.I enjoyed this book, but I'm not sure why Hibbert chose certain people to write about versus others, and the timeline was a little jumpy at times, especially when the book was describing siblings lives.
I'm not sure I would have liked it if I hadn't visited Italy first, so I'm glad that I read the bulk of the book after my trip.
DNF at 14%.I’m only on chapter 5 and I’m already so confused. The author talks about various people, starting chapters 1 and 5 about Cosimo de’ Medici, whole chapters 2-4 didn’t really have anything to do with him, and mostly talked about the state of female slavery.I’ve been interested in this topic for a while, but this book was dry, confusing and boring. Which should be quite hard to achieve, all things considered about the Medici.
It gives a good insight in live of the ruling class of the medieval/renaissance.The book is very difficult to read with rarely used words, long sentences and many characters to keep track of.The Medici family was from Florence, which development they shaped from appr.
were extremely important.-Medici was originally succesful in business (mainly banking), but had later financial troubles.-A Medici replaced the ruler with Machiavelli as advisor, who contructed a terrible Florent army that fled immediately.-The nobles of the renaissance generally behaved spoiled with little regard to finances and other classes, and was likely to be gay, which also ended the Medici-line.
I have spent many years in the finance field and there is one opinion many of us share - that family businesses usually fail by the third generation.
The author seemed to rush through the last 2 or 3 generations, but that may have been because it was too ugly and pathetic a story to want to dwell on.
I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the Florentine Renaissance years, or wanting to learn the basic history of the Medici family.
The family that greeds together, stays together.
The Medici were such an amazing clan, a group that did much to influence history.
Though Italians, they also changed the culture of France, when Caterina de Medici became the Queen of France and brought Italian epicurean standards to the still-Gothic French.If this family existed today, they would be all over the tabloids and probably have their own sitcom, but they were THE standard bearers for the Renaissance, so their successes and challenges changed history.
It was hard to put this book down, due to the excellent biographies of each family member.
I read this book as preparation for a trip to Florence, and I found it as helpful to understanding that great city as the numerous tour books we had perused. A very helpful introduction to renaissance Florence. The author is especially good in recounting the lives and influence of Cosimo the Elder and Lorenzo the Magnificent. He also does well in recounting the time of Savonarola and the Medici popes. It does seem to loose steam when he discusses the Grand Dukes after Cosimo I. Still, a good read, and a helpful guide to the art and architecture of Florence.
A great history of the Medici family that provides a lot of information, but isn't as dry as your usual history book.
Hibbert does a great job of providing a lot information on the different family members, the events that they influenced as well as exploring their impact on the Renaissance.
If you are interested in learning more about the Medici family then this is a good source to turn to.
There are a lot of extra details provided about different people that most authors wouldn't usually explore, but to men it helped bring them back to life a little more.
I made it through 200 pages in almost two months and now I'm just giving up tbh (which is something I almost never do).
This was probably the most mindnumbingly boring book I've ever attempted to read.
It read like a text book; actually, no, scratch that, I've read textbooks that were more fascinating than this.
It takes a special kind of talent to make a tale about politics and murder and scandal so incredibly boring so ...
good job I suppose.
stay away from this book, read the wikipedia page on the Medici family, I guarantee you it's more interesting.
Good overview of the Medici family's history, which makes it a good overview of the Italian Renaissance - at least from a political and social perspective. Not a ton of detail on the art and science of the time, unfortunately; I'll have to get that elsewhere. But I knew that going in.
Dry as dust and boring as hell - which should be impossible considering the subject matter.
Christopher Hibbert has written a comprehensive history of the Medici dynasty, painstakingly researched. It is a fascinating read for anyone interested in this illustrious and often infamous family who influenced princes and kings, religious leaders, artists, scientists and political theorists. They were the patrons of the Illuminati of centuries, and left a legacy which remains to this day. My only complaint is Hibbert's often ponderous prose, and the lack of a proofreader of his prodigious work.Otherwise, certainly the gold standard of histories on the Medici. A must-read for any love of Renaissance history.
I'm deeply impressed with the level of research Hibbert must have done for this sweeping history of the Medici family of Florence. He synthesizes all of that research into a readable guide to not just this one, important family, but also the tale of Florence itself and of once-fighting, now-united regions of Italy. I gained a better understanding of Italy's origins, though many details definitely went in one ear and out the other. Still, a good read for those traveling to Florence who want a better understanding of the city into which they are walking.
solid, interesting history of a fascinating family
The Medici Family changed threw out the years and so did the modern arts and many key benefactors that shaped Europe to what it is today, therefore this book may be suited for students and professors for the benefit of teaching their students the differences of the European world and how it shaped many famous families at that time.
The author was trying to depict the changes and the struggles in which the Medici Family had to endure in generations of leaders, either by ; death,banishment,feuds,or public brawls.
I found the earlier chapters (from the intro and Giovanni de Bicci up until the Popes) to be the most interesting; the later Medicis aren't nearly as fascinating, and I was a little disappointed to find barely anything on Catherine (Queen of France).The book also mostly recounts "facts" in a humanising way, but I would've liked to see more analysis on how things came to be (even contemporary analysis or views from the Medicis' allies/rivals).
The author packs in plenty of color; one heir to throne “so apathetic that he declined to open any letter to avoid having to answer them.” Another, who ““after one peculiarly embarrassing dinner, after vomiting into his napkin … took off his wig and wiped his mouth with it.” And I assume no one will be surprised to hear that Michelangelo was charmless and had bad hygiene.
Was it the author or the publisher who declined to add a family tree to the appendix?
It would have been extremely useful to have a map of the city of Florence detailing at least some of the areas and buildings mentioned, there were so many buildings mentioned, especially in the latter half of the book that I felt as if I spent more time googling them than reading.
There is little mentioned of France, Spain or Rome unless it is directly linked to Florence and the Medici’s.
I appreciated reading a non-fiction history book that isn’t too dry or boring and I found this one to be extremely interesting, well written and researched.
A superb account of one of the most famous and influential dynasties in European history.Beginning with an overview of Medieval Florece, Christopher Hibbert takes us back to a sumptuous world of arts, merchants and an advanced democratic civilization.
It begins with the story of Cosimo, the brilliant banker, who through his connections to the Papacy, becomes a major powerbroker in Italian affairs, much to the annoyance of Florences ruling Signoria, who unable to decide on his fate, place his life or death to a plebescite, which results in temporary banishment, only to return and establish a wealthy and cultured dynasty.Lorenzo il Manifico is the definite star, the patro of the arts who oversaw Florence's golden age.
This was a very entertaining read about the Medici dynasty in Florence.
It started in the 14th century and went through each generation detailing their accomplishments and failures.
They were a very powerful and wealthy family that helped fund and foster the Renaissance period of art and culture.
Over time the family fell on hard times and each generation seemed to produce heirs who were more and more inept, corrupt, and cruel.
It was great reading this while I was in Florence and visited many of the places talked about in the book.
The book helped put everything in context.
