https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164154.A_Canticle_for_Leibowitz
I'm not a Christian, but I live in a Christian society, and it's all around me.
The book tracks the history of one of these monasteries over the course of several hundred years.
The author shows you the ridiculous aspects of the story - I particularly liked the illuminated parchments of circuit diagrams decorated with vines and cherubim.
They're doing something important, even though they don't know what it is, and it makes their lives deep and meaningful.
If Christianity were always like this, I guess I'd be a Christian too.
It's a lovely book, that will leave you feeling better about people.
Beginning in the 26th century, 600 years after the Flame Deluge when nuclear buffoonery laid waste to civilization, the central focus of the story is a Roman Catholic monastery founded by a Jewish weapons engineer for the purpose of safeguarding and preserving human knowledge.
The first third of the book introduces us to the post apocalyptic world and gives a back-story on the Flame Deluge and the mission of the Order of Leibowitz.
The next section of the book takes place in the 32nd Century and shows humanity finally emerging out of the dark ages of the Simplification and beginning to once again embrace the knowledge.
A centuries old story following the evolving world after an apocalypse and centered on the monks of St. Leibowitz, somewhere in the American southwest.
The monks keep ancient artifacts of science and technology.
Funny, sad, brutal, irreverent at times, but doggedly hopeful in its underlying themes, this is a science fiction gem but really transcends the genre to make a greater statement.
Scholars and critics have explored the many themes encompassed in the novel, frequently focusing on its motifs of religion, recurrence, and church versus state.
A Canticle for Leibowitz is counted among the classic works of science fiction, the only novel by author Walter M.
Miller, Jr. injects a bit of humor throughout his book, most notably when young Francis is out in the desert and encounters an old man and then accidentally discovers a 1950s style Fallout Shelter that Leibowitz used.
Physical BeatingsWhen Francis reports to his abbot following the hubbub he created over his discovery of those documents in the Fallout Shelter and his encountering an old man that might have been a vision of Leibowitz, he's on the receiving end of repeated whacks from the abbot's stick.
The novel in question, "A Canticle for Leibowitz," turned out to be one of the most irritating kinds of genre sci-fi: one with ambitions to beauty and importance that falls far short of the mark.Now, I hate to put it that way, because I would never criticize anyone for trying.
But this is one of those genre novels that somehow attained notoriety for being a step closer to literature than the typical pap, and if we're going to talk about it on that level, I have a lot to criticize it for.The story is vague, confusing, unfocused, and seems to have some half-baked theme about religious ("objective") morality versus cultural ("subjective") morality.
A Canticle for Leibowitz is Catholic science fiction, clearly written in the aftermath of Hiroshima and the shadow of the Cold War. It is mesmerizing, drawing on history and speculating on the future, focused around a small monastery in the American Southwest. It is also profoundly pessimistic about the fate of man and the inevitability of nuclear war. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Miller presents a primitive post apocalyptic world in which knowledge has been stowed away in a monastery (in what used to be Utah).
Despite a number of centuries separating each of the three stories, Miller links the stories (and advancements in learning) in an interesting way; this in turn pushes the narrative forward in a sort of cyclical history.
What Miller is suggesting by this repeated history is both disturbing and ambiguous; however, the increasingly dark humor he attaches to the narrative somehow also makes it quite entertaining.
It’s central character is the Order of Saint Leibowitz that survives after the nuclear holocaust (the Flame Deluge), and the story spans over a thousand years as humanity seems determined to repeat its mistakes and destroy itself over and over, with the help of science and technology, while this small group of monks strives to preserve ancient knowledge amid the collapse of civilization.Many readers consider this book a powerful cautionary tale warning against nuclear conflict and the dangers of science.
It was born of the author's experiences taking part in the destruction of the monastery of Monte Cassino during WWII and the reasonable fear of nuclear annihilation that haunted many people for many years.
God's love is so incomprehensibly generous that Grace is freely offered through the Catholic Church to the sinful creatures that can, will, must apparently, repeatedly destroy Monte Cassino.Every age has its own fears.
The book consists of three moments imagined by Miller from the future history of a world that has survived the above mentioned moderately destructive nuclear war.
“Fiat Homo” (Let There Be Man)This first part of A Canticle for Leibowitz is set in America 600 years after a global nuclear apocalypse.
Certainly the Albertian Order of Leibowitz is the single monastery that ensures the survival of human knowledge, and even humanity itself.There is plenty of food for thought in A Canticle for Leibowitz, while the book is written from a Catholic viewpoint the book is not about Catholicism and Miller leaves many issues for the readers to decide for themselves.
bleak themes with a light touch.
although not an easy book to get into, once i realized the effort was a worthy one, it became an increasingly absorbing read.
the structure in particular was interesting, challenging - and distancing.
novels with religion at their core are often absorbing to me personally, and this novel is all about the impact of religion on the building and rebuilding of society.
i appreciated the humanist values and found myself agreeing with the at times progressive, other times cynical and determinist stances.
all that plus some super post-apocalyptic world-building as well.
The cover was a deep red with large blue and yellow type on the front: “How To Build A Backyard Bomb Shelter.” This was no joke: there were blueprints, charts and diagrams, tips on how to select a site, how to provision the shelter and so on.There was such a story being told about my parents' lives in the juxtaposition of those three books in that dusty old box in the basement, uncovered during a time of grief and remembrance.
This is essentially a book about knowledge.What happens to the human life that survives beyond the destruction of the world?In the ruins of what was once the United States of America, the Order of Saint Leibowitz works relentlessly to discover and preserve bits and pieces of knowledge from the time prior to the Flame Deluge.
The first follows the desperate search for the knowledge of a lost world.
Miller’s description of the apocalypse must be the most gorgeous account of any horrible event ever written:And the prince smote the cities of his enemies with the new fire, and for three days and nights did his great catapults and metal birds rain wrath upon them.
This is yet another book that I rated and reviewed and has disappeared from my shelves.
I wonder if it happened when some librarian decided to add series information to it and thereby change the title?
1 in a series there has to be a no.
2. There isn't.
It isn't a series.
According to Wikipedia,"A Canticle for Leibowitz is based on three short stories Miller contributed to The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction.[1][2] It is the only novel published by the author during his lifetime.."That's pretty conclusive isn't it?
Maybe it wasn't that, maybe it is the GR monster that GR are content to let feed on our shelves.
The result is one of the enduring all time classics of Science-Fiction, a masterpiece that asks the big questions and looks at the cyclical nature of history in a story that explores humanity millenia into its possible future.Divided in three parts about six centuries apart in the timeline, the novel explores the role of the church in the preservation of knowledge in the aftermath of a nuclear war ("Fit Homo"); the conflict between religious and secular powers, between power and responsibility in a Renaissance period when the quest for knowledge is once again ascendant ("Fiat Lux") and, finally, the destruction of an advanced civilization that has forgotten the lessons of the past and has lost the path to God ("Fiat Voluntas Tua") .
The novel starts about 600 years after this incident, and follows the monks of a monastery in the Utah desert, as they strive to preserve what little scraps of writing that has survived from before the world was burned to ashes.
Maybe that’s a misplaced critique of a book about monks living in a monastery, but there could have been meaningful female characters in this story if that’s what Miller wanted.
Although A Canticle for Leibowitz also describes people living together in a small community, this is not a book about personal struggles.
One of the best sci-fi that I've read so far.A Canticle for Leibowitz is composed of three parts.
The main character in this part is Brother Francis who has found the entrance to the ancient fallout center of the mysterious order founded by the blessed Isaac Edward Leibowitz during the 20th century.
The second part, Fiat Lux or "Let There Be Light" happens after another 6 centuries or to be exact in 3174.
If you can tolerate reading at least one sci-fi, go for this book.
An early classic in the post-nuclear holocaust genre. I have read the book two or three times in the last 50 years.Miller was the prototypical one-hit wonder. Though he did write a lot of SF short stories before he published Canticle, he never wrote another novel. But hey, if you only publish one novel, and it's like this one? Not bad at all.I suppose I need to read it again, I can't really remember how it ends. Or maybe it doesn't really end, just fades away? Or returns endlessly.
Before reviewing this book, I read a little bit about the back story as well as listening to the SFBRP episode that covers it.
I thought it centered around the quest of some guy named Leibowitz.Haha, not so much.
Leibowitz is revered as the story begins, but has been long gone.
Funny that a bunch of Christian monks are asking a guy named Leibowitz to intercede for them?
This "novel" is really three short stories that tie together around the central mythology of Leibowitz and what used to be our world.
There are some books that are called "classics," but you don't really understand why until you read it and feel that you've been changed. You know, for certain, that even though the themes have been played again and again, that the story is as everlasting as the bricks in an ancient abbey. I'll save the rest of my thoughts for the Sword & Laser recap, but I'm glad that we've also read The Sparrow as an interesting comparison on the themes in both. Fantastic book, even if you don't speak a lick of Latin!
We hark back to the role of European monasteries in preserving knowledge during the medieval period, even when they didn't know what it was they were preserving.The book is darkly funny at times, more so nearer the first.Leibowitz is a story emerging from Western civilization and Christianity.
Usually one hears "intone." It's hard for people from the Christian tradition to imagine Jewish prayers could be beautiful.Still, not so bad, as these things go.The Wandering Jew motif makes an appearance here.
A few years ago my reaction to a friend's short story led me to the wandering Jew: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Maybe it was that I had enough doom and gloom running through my head for the first half of this book, and then maybe it was because everything turned out so fucking good that it all almost felt like a Christmas miracle that I was too cheered to feel the last section of this book in a properly pessimistic tone (no, there might not be a Santa Claus, but fortunately the world isn't always a ironic and pessimistic narrative either).
You see, after the holocaust, mankind finds itself in a new dark age where technology is non existant and the majority of the population is illiterate and preyed upon by bandits (think Mad Max or The Road).
The Church once again becomes an important institution set on the preservation of the little literature, science, and culture that remains from our age.
I'm not a religious man, but I found it so refreshing to see the Church preserving science and having such a positive role in the future instead of having both those institutions be antagonists all the time.
Along with Hyperion, one of my all-time favorite SF books. It's a total crime that it wasn't included in Goodreads Top 50 Science-Fiction novels.
I add this to my 'read' books having read it I don't know how many years ago (maybe even read it twice?), in Finnish translation.
A group of cloistered monks secretly nourishing knowledge of past and trying to help some survivors.
From this the humanity slowly patches itself up and begins to redevelop - but can they stay away from past mistakes (and another nuclear war)?...(view spoiler)[ Nope.
The cover art of my book kind of gives it away.
But hope, and a desire to try again, survives, even as the last monk dusts off his sandals before closing the spaceship door.
And that makes this (hide spoiler)]a great read.
I'd heard about this book for years.
Finally decided now was the time.
Turned out it wasn't.
The beginning held my interest, although I did think the writing was a little self conscious.
That got me through about 1/3 of the book.
Then of a sudden, things shifted, and so did my attitude.
That got me through the 2nd 3rd.
At that point I got wise.
I am 75 years old.
If I'm going to read even a portion of everything I want to read before I conk off, I can't afford to waste my time on books I'm not enjoying.
There are threads that connect the three very disparate sections; the canticle for Leibowitz standing in for the concept of knowledge, the monastery devoted to knowledge preservation, a wild-haired wanderer, the themes of humanity.
Each section revolves partly around life at the monastery and a particular issue of their time.
It didn't hamper reading, by any means, but I can't help wonder if it affected how I read Miller's larger messages, especially as the last third seems to deal with elemental questions of conceptual sin.
The characters are used to illustrate the larger issues, but many are still well crafted and interesting.
It’s a book that left me absolutely indifferent.
Instead, what I’ve got was a boring and uninspiring post-apocalyptic version of “Name of the Rose”.
This book would be a good read if you’re interested in creation of religions, how they rise, how they create their symbols and saints, but otherwise it’s just a mediocre tale of reflections rather than action and I can’t say anything more about this book, because I just don’t remember anything – it’s that dull.
So, as I’ve said, it’s absolutely not my cup of tea, though I admit that this book has potential.
RTC when I process it
A book that would NEVER EVER make it through to a small-time SF magazine let alone a major publisher today, far too Catholic (and unapologetically so) and one of the greatest books I've ever read.
When the world was in darkness and wretchedness, it could believe in perfection and yearn for it.
But when the world became bright with reason and riches, it began to sense the narrowness of the needle's eye, and that rankled for a world no longer willing to believe or yearn.”
