https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104378.Keeping_the_Moon
Colie is so real and Dessen is great at capturing the teenage voice.
quick overview: Colie has a hard time making friends since she's never really had any.
Throughout the summer Colie makes friends with the two girls working at the Last Chance (Isabel and Morgan) and Norman, the weird but sweet hippie-ish guy who lives in Mira's downstairs.
I loved the fact that although Colie lost the weight, it didn't mean that she automatically got the confidence that other thin people have.
One of my all time favorites and definitely set the bar for the rest of the young adult books that I've read.
“You believed you were beautiful and so did the rest of the world.” I appreciate Ms.Sarah Dessen’s ability to come up with meaningful stories out of a linear plot which seems true in all her books I’ve read. I don’t believe her books have this gripping power on me as a reader and yet I still keep reading them perhaps because they’re very easy to read. Keeping the Moon is simply about Colie, a very shy, unconfident girl (despite her mom being a celebrity) who spends her summer with her not so or
“You believed you were beautiful and so did the rest of the world.”
I appreciate Ms.Sarah Dessen’s ability to come up with meaningful stories out of a linear plot which seems true in all her books I’ve read.
I don’t believe her books have this gripping power on me as a reader and yet I still keep reading them perhaps because they’re very easy to read.
I like that the few characters and the small town setting gave the story more focus and plausibility.
It’s Summery and heartwarming just like most Sarah Dessen’s books.
not my favorite sarah dessen.this goes for a good message of, like, self-esteem and all, but MAN does it get into a good deal of fat-shaming and slut-shaming and girl-hate and just really horrendous unjustified nonsensical bullying along the way.also, every single background character in this book is a goddamn villain out to get at least one of the main characters.
and that's just unreal.i do like the theme of "the only thing it takes to be a beautiful girl is decide you're one" because, um, extremely true as hell.
and i think dessen was going for something good here.
but the sarah dessen reread extravaganza will continue!!!
3.5 stars
For me, this wasn't as good as other Sarah Dessen books.
And before I even begin reading it, I've had high expectations on this one, because I've read that this is Sarah's favorite among the books she'd written.
I didn't really realize I was close to the end, because I kept waiting and waiting, so I was stunned that I was almost finished reading when i'm on the last few pages.But it still has some morals in it.
Because failing means you've tried, and that's already an accomplishment on its own.
I have great news guys! I am finally done my Sarah Dessen marathon! I know I haven't read Someone Like You, but I wasn't planning on reading that book. I am so happy to move onto other books, I loved doing this marathon but I went through many ups and downs. Sometimes, I wasn't a huge fan of her books but most of the time, I loved her books. HAPPY DANCE! “You should never be surprised when someone treats you with respect, you should expect it.”   Colie is a fifteen year old girl who has been bu
I know I haven't read Someone Like You, but I wasn't planning on reading that book.
I am so happy to move onto other books, I loved doing this marathon but I went through many ups and downs.
The characters were the best in this book, I loved all of them.
Morgan was so sweet, but at the same time, I wish she listened to Isabel.
Isabel and Morgan were awesome and I loved their friendship.
Norman was an awesome character and I feel like he was really patient.
I loved Mira's bond with Colie, it was sweet and nice to read about.
Just read if you want to read all the Dessen books.
The book abruptly ends and there's no real closure to Colie's slightly frayed relationship with her mother.
One good thing I will say is that I enjoyed Isabel and Morgan's relationship/friendship.
Her famous mother is traveling and Colie is shuffled off for the summer.
We just don't get a lot of time getting to know them much cause Dessen drops tidbits here and there and jumps around.
Most of this book felt like things were left unsaid.
Probably why I felt like a lot of things were left undone.
As Colie tries to adjust to her very different Aunt Mira and her strange artistic tenant, Norman, she lands a waitressing job at the local diner and meets Morgan and Isabel, two girls who have gone through high school and survived.
Over the course of the summer Colie finds out this might have been just what she needed.I really liked Norman - he was my favorite character, his personality just made me smile.
Sarah did an excellent job of showing a broken, sad girl who thought she was stuck and how with the help of a couple eccentric new friends, she finds the strength that was hiding all along inside her, to change.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
5 Words: Friendship, confidence, unique, girl-power, change.This was my first ever Sarah Dessen and I definitely enjoyed it.
It was a relatively quick read that I didn't have to focus 100% on - which is a good thing as I was puppy-sitting.Last Chance was quite empowering.
It made me feel good.
They were quirky, multi-dimensional and believable.I wish I had read this ten years ago, that's when it would have done the most for me.
The message of friendship and being yourself and staying strong is one I wish I'd had back then.
Not my favorite Dessen, but like all her books that I've read so far, it's compulsively readable and likable, and full of great, quirky characters, honest emotion, and unforgettable settings. I love the way Dessen writes female friendships in particular--they always feel real and nuanced, veering from loving exasperation to crazy joy to impatience to rock-steady love. Just like all the best relationships I've known in real life.
My first Dessen read and the one that lead me to her other marvelous novels. I drank the kool-aid once and never turned back. I need to do a proper review for this one day. It has a good lesson on how other people can help you and that sometimes you are more special than you thought you were. The title fits and is such a cool name.
Even though I really liked this book and I did put it on my favorite list, I really wish Ive read it when I was 15 (the age of the main character) this is such a positive book about self-esteem and how to get it. Its a positive love yourself book. I just wished it was more fat-positive.
Even though I really liked this book and I did put it on my favorite list, I really wish I´ve read it when I was 15 (the age of the main character) this is such a positive book about self-esteem and how to get it. Its a positive love yourself book. I just wished it was more fat-positive.
Every book I read by Sarah has such a powerful lesson to be learned. And this is no exception. Absolutely wonderful story.
I feel like it has been a while since I've read my last Sarah Dessen book..
At least until she lives with her Aunt Mira for the summer because her mom, who is famous for weight loss advertisements, is touring throughout Europe.
However, I really liked that Colie went to live with her aunt because she really needed that.
I do wish that Morgan listened to her friends advice more often though.
I definitely need to get back on the Sarah Dessen book train because I feel like it has been too long since I read the last book from her.
I've done it, I've read my first Sarah Dessen.Gotta say I was delighted by her writing style and her creativity.I'm looking forward to checking out more of her books.P.SNorman is adorable! (both the human and the cat).
I wasn't sure I was going to like it in the beginning chapter because Colie was a little irritating at first.
I didn't love Colie but I did like her.
It was mostly all about Colie, Isabel, and Morgan I sometimes forgot he was even there until the last few chapters and the very few times he would be mentioned.
I have no idea why I thought that...- IsabelI loved Isabel's character.
I absolutely loved Mira, she did things that she enjoyed and didn't care one bit about what others thought, I really admired her character.
When she was young she was overweigh and now even though she’s really slim, she still has no body confidence and moreover she has to deal with the bulling in the past and name calling.First of all the book was really slow.
The first 30% were boring and slow and sometimes annoyed me.However the main reason I didn’t like this book was the main character.
She was annoying and I really didn’t like her.
There was a part when she was talking with another character about school problems and sort of bulling.
Her aunt lives in the adorable beach town of Colby, North Carolina and Colie expects a boring summer is ahead of her, but just the opposite happens.
She is still dealing with a lot of issues regarding her self-esteem; the years of being made fun of for being overweight sort of hang over her head wherever she goes despite the fact that she has lost the weight.
While hanging out in Colby, Colie meets Morgan and Isabel, two best friends and waitresses at the local beach cafe.
They take Colie under their wings and through their help as well as her eccentric aunt's, she blossoms this summer despite the return of her nemesis.
Keeping the Moon while having the writing style I have become accustomed to, it varied slightly when it came to the mood of the book.
I found this book to be much more brash in the sense that the characters were much more rude and just very different from a lot of the characters I am use to Sarah writing.
I wouldn’t suggest this as the first Sarah Dessen book that you read, some of the other ones are a lot better.
I would suggest you read this book though, because it’s still a good read even though it can be slightly annoying.
The story revolves around the character of Nicole "Colie" Sparks, a fifteen year old girl.
Colie's story of finding herself and realising the potential that has been there within her all along, is heart-warming and endearing.
It seems to be a ploy, by either the author or the publisher or both, to trick people into wasting their money buying the same novel twice, or even three times.
I almost brought 'Crazy Town' along with this novel, but fortunately I realised my mistake before the purchase was dispatched and was able to amend my order in time.
Keeping the Moon by Sarah Dessen is a realistic fiction, and young adult story about a girl named Colie who has trouble making friends because she has never had any.
Colie leaves her town in North Carolina to stay in Colby for the summer with her aunt Mira.
She makes friends with two waitresses and best friends, (Isabel and Morgan) and an eerie but sweet boy named Norman.
The author makes everything in the story so detailed especially with the characters.
Morgan is a sweet and compassionate girl who always goes out of her way for Colie.
More of my reviews @ Reading 24x7Keeping The Moon was short, sweet and like all other Dessen books, had that "wise" message in the end.
See, that's always the case when I read any Sarah Dessen books.
Anyway, coming back to this book, I really liked the way Colie slowly changed from a shy, always hiding and cowering sort of a girl to a confident, beautiful and sure person.
I felt like I could really understand her.Personally, my favourite character in this book was Isabel.
Isabel made me believe that if other people make you feel inferior, its not because they want you to become the target.
Auch wenn sich Sarah Dessen mit Colie dem Klischee des einst dicken Mädchens ohne Freunde, der Außenseiterin ohne Selbst- und Sozialbewusstsein bedient, die erst glücklich werden kann, als sie sich selbst schließlich schön findet, verkörpern Norman, Kiki, Mira, Isabel und Morgan fünf ganz andere, komplett verschiedene Wege glücklich zu werden.
ONCE YOU UNDERSTAND YOU INNER BEUTY, IT WILL COME OUT!(Man sollte auch sagen, dass Sarah Dessen mit der Veröffentlichung dieses Buches im Jahr 1999 vermutlich eine der ersten Contemporary-Autorinnen war, die sich der auftretenden Klischees in diesem Buch bedient hat.)All in all: Glatte drei Sterne.
Colie has no faith in herself.
Leaving Colie to experience the summer with her aunt in a nameless town where the only notable eatery is called Last Chance.
But Colie knows better than to anticipate a new start for herself.
Times three.An apology.An emergency.And a job offer.Suddenly Colie isn’t alone.
She may even learn to “keep the moon.”Perhaps more than any of the author’s other characters, Colie felt very real to me.
To Colie, the past is inescapable.
Keeping the Moon is full of quirky humor and wonderful details—along with an engaging subplot of first romance—but the story’s true center is friendship.
This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic Nerd MY THOUGHTS I've read almost all of Sarah Dessen's books and, I must say, her books are absolutely brilliant. This isn't my favorite of hers, but this was still a very good book.This book focuses on Colie. Both Colie and her mom used to be fat, until her mom becomes Kiki Sparks, fitness guru. Now both Colie and her mom are skinny and Kiki Sparks is famous for getting people fit! Kiki has to go on tour, so Colie is left with her electric a
I've read almost all of Sarah Dessen's books and, I must say, her books are absolutely brilliant.
Both Colie and her mom used to be fat, until her mom becomes Kiki Sparks, fitness guru.
In the course of one summer, Colie will learn how to be someone other than the daughter of Kiki Sparks.I think Sarah Dessen's book are entirely mislabeled.
Sarah Dessen seems to be known as a romance writer, but I never see her books are romance.
If you love contemporary books, Sarah Dessen, you just want a pick me up, this is a good read for you!
i paraphrase, but the gist is accurate.let's get this straight, then: my mother could be a weight loss guru (female richard simmons) who pawns me off on my eccentric morbidly obese aunt who loves broken things because nobody's perfect and once i'm there i can get an impromptu summer job at a diner/cafe where i meet two girls 1.
at my job, i will meet the sweetest, nicest dirty hippie painter boy who will have a huge crush on me but who i will initially scare off with my lip ring and black hair but who i will realize is mr.
Colie tiene 15 años y tiene que pasar el verano con su tía Mira porque su mamá es Kiki Sparks, la guru del ejercicio y la pérdida de peso que anda de gira por Europa.
Me pasó lo mismo con Ghostgirl que para mí ese va a ser siempre su mensaje.Keeping the moon es una historia hermosa, dulce e inspiradora sobre la amistad, la confianza y la autoestima, sobre entender a los demás en lugar de juzgarlos y criticarlos, y seguir intentando...
I was Colie- Had zero friends and zero self confidence.
But, like Morgan had horrible taste in guys.
She also had a boyfriend named Mark that was a complete dirtbag and treated her like crap.
She was the best friend I have ever had in my life but unfortunately her dirtbag boyfriend ruined our friendship.
But the point is before I met her I had no friends like Colie and no self confidence and like Morgan my friend brought me out of my shell.
So Colie's and Morgan's friendship was by far the best part of this book in my opinion.
The first time I read this book was about 4 years ago so I decided to read it again and I was still just as interested in it as I was then.
Its a good starter too since it isn't as dark as some of her other books.
Colie seems to hold herself back so much in the start of the book.
However as the book progresses she gains self confidence with the help of her new friends.
I can't quite pinpoint exactly why I love this book so much.
This book is about growing up, realizing what is real, and ultimately finding your own worth.
I really liked this book! It's a really important story, with a good lesson for (young) girls/teenagers. Because of that I gave it 4.5 stars. An other reason why I gave it 4.5 stars out of 5 is because I'm not going to re-read it (I only give 5 stars to books I can re-read over and over again) but it's really worth to read!
