https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15424.And_Eternity
I started in the mid eighties, reading all of the Xanth, Blue Adept and Incarnations of Immortality series.
The stories seemed to focus more and more on panties and young teens discovering sex in a very childlike manner.
The final Blue adept book made me uncomfortable for the same reasons.
He writes several paragraphs about struggling with being sexually attracted to her.
Then he writes several more paragraphs justifying his attraction even though it is illegal, he was a judge AND she was put into his home for protective custody so she would not be in sexual situations with adults.
I also quit reading Piers Anthony books.
There's something wrong when you write up the character of a middle-aged man who "falls in love" and repeatedly has sex with a 15-year old girl and have every other character try to justify this by saying "age is just a construct," and "they're really in love."In Lolita, the story was at least presented without glorifying pedophilia - instead, it seemed designed to make you feel uncomfortable by following the point of view of a very flawed villainous figure and showing the damage that resulted from the violation of trust when a grown man pursued a sexual relationship with a young girl.
So. I read this when I was about fifteen, and I learned that men who don't rape women are automatically noble creatures because it's really hard not to rape. Once I start taking testosterone I'll let you know if I get a sudden urge to go around raping people, but I'm going to go ahead and guess with "no".
I expected he might do with this book as he did with For Love of Evil, that is, surprise the reader with a sympathetic, nuanced depiction of God. Perhaps he might even have shown God's love and intervention working throughout in ways so subtle the other characters were missing it all along, the way he up-ended readers' expectations with his examination of Satan in the previous work.
In fact, the Incarnation of Night ends up as the subtle character, and might have played a great God (except without all the sex).
The love affair, for Piers Anthony anyway, is relatively well done, though really, why couldn't Piers have written the man to be ten years younger (so the story line still fits, but the love affair isn't quite so eww?) The series does really wrap up in this book though, and (mostly) ties up all the loose ends, and definitely brings together all of the other books, but there's just so much more I'd really like to know, that the book doesn't answer.
Mainly, what happens next to Orlene and the world at the end of book 7?
Was awful. The trashy cover is actually an accurate depiction of the storyline. I still cant believe this awesome series ended so badly, I still have trouble believing Piers actually even wrote this! I think he has issue with believable female characters
Replace God? Awesome idea. Kudos to you, Piers.
Re-reading it now, it has lost some of its luster, but it was still a favorite re-read for me.This book centers around Orlene, who committed suicide after the death of her baby son, Gaw-Two, which we saw in Book 2 of the series.
The book culminates with the Incarnations we became familiar with in the first 6 novels agreeing to a replacement in the office.Some of the trials were disturbing to me, but on the whole the quest was a noble but futile one.
The fact that I have bestowed an additional half a star has to do with how well the book redeemed itself once reaching Chapter 12.
The first 11 chapters really feel more like an exploration of Mr. Anthony's views on sexuality and morality rather than a story of entertainment for its readers.
So, I'd recommend this book for the simple fact that it contains three great chapters at the end.
There is one book left in the series focusing on the Incarnation of Night, Nox. I will read it since I have read the series through to its end twice (once when it was destined to be concluded in 5 novels, and again when it was to be concluded in 7 novels).
Nox the incarnation of night promises to help but needs some items of great power from all the other incarnations.
In their journey they find that definitions of good and evil which are used to judge souls for heaven or hell are flawed, and the incarnation of good(God) has become obsessed with his own greatness and completely unresponsive to the outside world.
Given this information the other Incarnations decide that God has been derelict in his duty and must be replaced so that evil may not overcome good.
an interesting read but still my favorite was For Love of Evil
Each time I read this book I like it less and less. I loved it when I was in high school. Now I despise Piers Anthony's blatant sexism and wonder how much damage he did to my teenage psyche.
The worst aspect comes when another protagonist--Vita, a fifteen-year-old girl who has been forced into prostitution--comes under the protection of a judge, described as "middle aged," so no younger than forty, and the two of them start a fully sexual relationship.
Midway through the plot, there's a random "debate" between creationism and evolution which--though, again, unintentionally, I'm sure, based on his other writings--treats evolution not as a scientific fact, but as a belief.The book only started to redeem itself at the very end when it finally started to dig into what should have been the main premise of the book: the Incarnation of Good has spent the last thousand years contemplating his own greatness, neglecting his duties and the mortal realm, and thus needs to be replaced.
Like any Incarnations book, there are a lot of sex scenes, but none so uncomfortable or out of place than here including Nox changing Orlene into a man who attempts rape Jolie or the subtler moment where Jolie forgets to where clothing because she’s used to being a ghost.
While some may try to argue that since sex is just a natural part of life, it should be put into a novel without any reluctance, to me, Piers Anthony still has those strange fetishes he has yet to don.While there are some interesting things that happen, the novel tends to stray quite a bit from actually talking about the Incarnation of Good.
This book did not feel very well-thought out, with Nox wanting Gaw-Two (and what she did to Orlene in the beginning).
He didn't give up his office willingly, so there's no mention of what became of him.If you read the next book, Under a Velvet Cloak, the thing with Nox and Gaw-Two make more sense, but that doesn't mean that it made sense overall.
Overall, this book deserves some stars for Orlene's interactions with the other Incarnations and the discussions that come forth, but really, it's the other Incarnations that redeem this book, not Jolie or Orlene.
After rereading this recently, I am kind of appalled at some of the subject matter that totally slipped by me the first time.
The concept that men are pretty much just animals who just barely learn how to control themselves (dancing a very fine line, apparently) from constantly attacking and assaulting women is pretty gross.
There is the matter of a "very good man" who has an interest in young girls.
I don't believe the character he gets involved with has a stated age, but she is constantly referred to as "young flesh" (which, also gross).
This was the second time that Piers Anthony was going to end the Incarnations of Immortality series. The first ending was book 5, then he added two more books: the quite good For Love of Evil about Satan, and this one, about God. The book follows the ghost Orlene as she goes on a quest to revive her dead ghost baby who had been kidnapped by Nox. Sound silly? Well, that’s because it is. In the process, there is some Incarnation politicking and a weird Lolita-like romance that seems creepily ratio
This was the second time that Piers Anthony was going to end the Incarnations of Immortality series.
The first ending was book 5, then he added two more books: the quite good For Love of Evil about Satan, and this one,  about God. The book follows the ghost Orlene as she goes on a quest to revive her dead ghost baby who had been kidnapped by Nox. Sound silly?
In the process, there is some Incarnation politicking and a weird Lolita-like romance that seems creepily rationalized by Piers Anthony.Things wrap up in a satisfactory matter, but it kind of feels like Anthony is phoning this one in.
The final story in the Incarnations of Immortality series by Piers Anthony, I have to say this was my favorite of the seven.
Other than that, I loved this story!!
The author did a great job of finishing the series and the story had a great flow.
I was planning to give this story an 8 out of 10, but the ending was totally amazing, so my final rating is 9 out of 10!!
I loved the way the story / series ended--it was so unexpected but the perfect ending to this whimsical series.
Ugh! What a terrible ending to such a good series. I would probably rate it two stars but the whole concept of an elderly man having a sexual relationship with a fourteen girl was inappropriate for the context of the novel. The way time passed also changed from previous books. Time spent in purgatory was much slower than time on earth. This didn't correspond with the passage of time from Wielding A Red Sword. Over all, it was just a lame book and really had no purpose.
This book is the final installment of a seven book series. I however, did not know it when I read it. Once I finished this amazing book, I was demanding more and that is when I realized it was part of a series. I enjoyed it so much that I went back and read all of the other six books and reread this one. It is truly an amazing series, just for the simple fact that it showed me that I wasn't alone on beliefs or ideas that I have.
Not as good as I remember it being; same text so I've obviously moved on. Worst of the series.
Orlene finds out the curse was from the genetic tampering, and discovers that Nature (her own mother!) had facilitated that at the ghost daddy's request, but couldn't fix it.
She was helped by Jolie, the ghost that loved Parry (now Satan) and hung out with her mom (Orb/Nature) a lot.
Together, they end up finding out about, then going to Nox, Incarnation of Night, for help.
But when they got there, Nox already had the baby with her in ghost form!
a powerful item from each Incarnation that only they could provide, that would enable them to heal the baby's curse and bring him back to life.
Nox, who is the incarnation of Night, plays a part in this title, where she takes Orlene's baby and sends her on a nearly impossible journey to get powerful items from each of the Incarnations.
Will Orlene get her baby back or will she find herself in a position she never imagined doing?
The final pun in this story is worth the cost of the book right there.
However, the story raises many societal issues, as well as some scientific issues, ie evolution, population control, etc.
This is one of the best of the series, as well as the end of the series.
Wow, this was unexpected till the end.
I think that it is a good end of the series.
I don't think I'll read the last book as "And Eternity" makes sense - one big family they are, indeed.
Happy family 😊I am glad a re-read original 5 books and added 2 more.
Maybe Nox's story is still missing right now, on the other hand I am satisfied with only the Incarnations of Day 😊One of the best books in the series, together with Thanatos, Fate, and Evil....then comes Gaea, Mars and least favourite Chronos...Overall, pretty good series 😊
"A soul is infinitely precious.Incarnations of Immortality is one of those series that's needs to be reread over and over in order to understand the nuances of what's going on.
There's a huge cast of characters, who are all so unique and amazing that each time I reread one of these books I see something new or something that I missed.
Or I interpret something differently, which changes my entire view on that character.In And Eternity, we get a trio of very remarkable, and very different women, on a quest to find the Incarnation of Good (God).
The outcome is perfect.
I quite enjoyed this series when I read it as a teenager but now, thirty odd years later, it was difficult to finish. The first six books were okay but they have not aged well for the most part. This book was the worst: I had forgotten about his justification of statutory rape.
I have always enjoyed Piers Anthony's books but I had never read this series. As a whole I quite enjoyed this series of books. I found the characters and story to be clever and interesting. It sort of reminded me of a more adult version of a Rick Riordan series of books.
As much as I like some of the concepts in this book, I found it pretty hard to read...
Builds up to a very nice ending. Quite a bit of foreshadowing resulting in a climactic finish.
Love that Piers Anthony was excited about getting a new 386 computer in the author notes.
This is a better book with a woman Lead out of the books. I really enjoyed the listen!
