https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9641918-three-loves
Безмилостна, това ми идва наум като описание .Толкова жестока и реалистична.А как ме подведе заглавието.Но автора не е изменил на себе си и тук,показвайки истинската същност на живота в неговите най-тъмни страни.Трудно се свиква със стила на Арчибалд Кронин. Бях на път да се откажа.От върха на моята камбанария и принципно оптимистичния ми начин на мислене, тази книга е още по-тежка,не оставя никакви илюзии.
Three loves is a about the story of Lucy Moore who loves her dear ones too much that her love takes up some sort of destructive nature.
everything to make her goal...I am impressed with the detail in which A J Cronin has written the character of Lucy Moore.
Such a strong character driven by her goals, ready to endure all sorts of hardships for what she think is right...Never ready to accept defeat even at things which people think at impossible for her...The book is worth reading for the exploration of the character Lucy Moore.
Ho passato tutto il tempo a chiedermi chi fossero questi "Tre amori", e diciamo che (parer mio) l'ultimo di questi mi ha un po' deluso. Mi stavo stancando della testardaggine e dell'eccessivo orgoglio di Lucy (soprattutto per quanto riguarda il suo rapporto con Peter); solo ora che ho finito, ammetto che il libro è strutturato molto bene, sottolineando e portando in primo piano i grandi sacrifici (e debolezze) di una donna.
A Mother’s Love?A story of a mother’s steely determination to give her son the chance to succeed in life against all the odds.Not my favourite AJ Cronin novel. Perhaps too wordy & too long but indisputably well written, it is a depressing tale of what can go wrong with life from cover to cover with no let up throughout.While the author has a remarkable insight into the human nature, he perhaps dwells on the negative aspects to the extent that it is not an easy read.
I Hated it.I am a Cronin fan but this tale was a misery from start to finish. I was hoping there would be at least some redeeming feature by the end...some masochistic depressive might enjoy it! Again Bello the publisher made too many errors in punctuation and words that were wrong. Must be dictated to a computer like the subtitles on TV. Pity they don't have a proof reader.
Pride conquers all. Or does it? Amazing story. One admires Lucy's fortitude, devotion, sacrifice, and hard work. She really does help her son grow into a decent prosperous young man. But she wants it all her way. She asks so little, yet demands so much.
I didn't know what to expect when starting Three Loves.
Seriously, all I gathered before starting was that a lady had three loves.
And three loves she sure did have.
Lucy Moore pushed through life when life pushed back at her.
She might be considered stubborn to some and maybe she is.
I'm not sure if I liked Lucy Moore all that much but I couldn't put the book down.
I wanted to know what the twist and turn of her life was going to be.
All in all, it was a good book.
A story of how a woman lives her life the way she sees fit, She has her own moral code and stands by it. She lives the way she choses, She ends up dying alone and lonely but if you told her that is the way she would die, I do not believe she would change anything.
Eu amei esse livro. É uma crítica social muito bem definida. Além de mostrar aspectos da sociedade, temos uma ótima perspectiva de dentro do convento.
