https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529719.The_Great_Gatsby
Loved it.
2nd time reading and it was better than a high school read. Well Worth the time.
Parents need to know that THE GREAT GATSBY is at once a romantic and cynical novel about the wealth and habits of a group of New Yorkers during the Jazz Age. Fitzgerald's writing is unassailably magnificent, as he paints a grim portrait of shallow characters who maneuver themselves into complex situations.
This classic American novel is required reading for a lot of high school students, and it can definitely be appreciated and understood on some levels by teenagers.
However, Fitzgerald's use of language and symbolism is best appreciated by mature readers able to analyze literature and think critically.
Parents also need to know that some characters express racial and religious prejudice.
The Great Gatsby follows Nick Carraway during his summer working in New York when he meets his eccentric neighbor and learns about his affair with his cousin.
I've read The Great Gatsby twice and loved it both times.
I like reading about the lives of this strange people in this strange, romanticized time.
I find it so fascinating how people romanticize the novel and want to be just like the characters, because in my opinion living this story would be awful and being any of the characters in it would be as well.
I think the book is beautifully written and teaches us teens important lessons.
Very helpful revision tool. Reading this really puts you at an advantage. It gives you in depth chapter by chapter summaries and analysis which is really useful. It gives character analysis and historical background information also. However, this is not the most interesting read thus the two star rating. If you understand the book well, it feels like repetition but repetition is always good for revision.
I would recommend this book to many other readers. I have been reading it for my English class and it had definitely caught my attention. Kudos to the writer of this story and I wish he would've written many more.
Plot spoiler, well written but the main character dies
Surprisingly good.
Cars and the American dream and plenty of love in this book.
Loved it!
A fascinating story which depicts the era perfectly. I liked the poetry of the writing and although it is quite short I want to go back at some time and read it again.
Still in awe of the last sentence...
You type your review
The Great Gatsby is one of my all time favorites. I know lots of people have beef with this book but the last page of it alone should make up for any of its supposed shortcomings.
JAR6-Fit
Don't believe the hype!
A whole book about a bunch of spoiled rich people bitchin'. Total waste of time in AP Lang last year...
Big ReadGreat!Gotta see the new movie.
