https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77239.Andersonville
But Andersonville started to actually put some real tarnish on the shiny world that I thought I inhabited.Listening to the Audible version many years later.August 18, 2017The book begins with ira wondering his land early of a morning.
As they ride off ira hope they will not choose his land.I am amazed to find myself at the beginning of chapter 7 and still amidst the details prior to the development of Andersonville.I continue to progress through the Audible book up to chapter 24 now.
He comes across a 20-year-old Union soldier who has escaped from Andersonville with a lost hand.
The book begins and ends with the man who owned the land where the 27 acre stockade was constructed.
The author does an incredible job of setting the scene, as we begin with plantation owner, Ira Claffey, and are gradually introduced to his family and neighbours.
It is also interesting that the author mentions that Ira Claffey and his family can actually ‘smell’ the camp from their house, and has parallels perhaps with people in small towns near concentration camps, in the Second World War, who denied any knowledge of what unfolded so close to where they live.
Bruce Catton called it "the best Civil War novel I have ever read."Although it long enjoyed both popularity and financial success in the wake of its publication, my sense is that it is not considered today as a part of the Contemporary Canon.
It certainly does not figure in any of the more common lists of notable fiction from the XX Century and I would be surprised to find it listed in a major bibliography of selected, fiction works dealing with the Civil War.Perhaps one reason why it has slipped into oblivion is that its structure is antithetical to contemporary tastes.
In both histories and historical novels, preferences run to a central figure whose actions or inactions thread dominantly through the work.
There are parts that are difficult to read, there is real horror, but there is nothing lurid, nothing overstated in Kantor’s treatment.It’s a mixture of fact and fiction, a mixture of real people and wholly believable characters: unforgettable characters like Ira Claffey and his daughter Lucy, who live on a plantation close to the camp, and Nathan Dreyfoos, a cultured man, a Union prisoner, carried to Andersonville by chance and fate.
It’s a story, in so many ways, of intersected lives and intersected destinies.In Dachau the Nazis imposed a brutish order, with guards in the camp and designated block orderlies.
Incredibly graphic passages abounded, and while I did care in that "I care that any human was treated this way," kind of way, I did not care in an, "I know and care about this character specifically," kind of way.Also, Kantor felt the need to not include any quotation marks in the book.
Not cool.I actually only made it about 750 pages into this 900+ page book.
Typically I will finish a book no matter what, but when there is no real continuing plot and I hated it as much as I did, I didn't really see a purpose.The author clearly did his research, and wanted to include every morsel of it, and I can see why Civil War buffs might care about this book.
Historical novels are, without question, the best way of teaching history, for they offer the human stories behind the events and leave the reader with a desire to know more.
Looking through a reversed telescope at a prisoner of war camp, in fact a true death camp, is probably a subject for few readers.
There is no glory of war in this book.
It seems to be a true and accurate depiction of the worst War and human endeavors can produce.
As a historical novel: brilliant.
Perhaps the most inglorious book ever written.
While this book is not as racist as GONE WITH THE WIND, Kantor still takes a very tolerant view of slavery.
All the slaveowners in the book are benign and enlightened, which is the oldest of Southern lies.
There are no Abolitionist Yankees, no black runaways, no-one to challenge the Southern view.
Oddly enough, the main conflict in the book is between the native Anglo-Saxon Yankee prisoners, and the "criminal" element.
Kantor portrays the bad Yankees as 100% Irish, Catholic, and urban.
GONE WITH THE WIND is hateful in many ways -- but it's never boring.
I remember finding this book in a big old library edition at the old Kent Library. I don't know why I picked it up off the shelf; I was 15 and probably bored. But it turned out to be one of those books that has stayed with me all this time. I didn't know I'd end up living in the South at the time, but the descriptions, the characters, the details of survival, seemed so familiar and known. Maybe it was just the scope of the trauma and grief the book conveys; articulated so beautifully.
I've known about this book since high school, but I never imagined I'd actually read it.
Narrator Gardner does a wonderful job sustaining the intensity of the story, individualizing characters--since it's all about the characters inside the barricades (prisoner, jailers, and camp officials) and the residents outside, many of them cultured southerners who were appalled by conditions.
Well-researched; written in polished (and even lyrical at the beginning and end) prose; a sobering, disturbing, moving tone; a compelling story of characters with flashbacks to earlier lives.
A harrowing novel of the horrendous conditions at the notorious prison camp written in elegant, compelling prose.
Having visited the Andersonville Prisoner of War Camp in South Georgia years ago, I already knoew a little about the horrors the Union soldiers suffered there.Open for only 18 months, 52,000 Yankees were "housed" (although not my idea of housing) at this notorious POW camp known as Ft. Sumter and 13,000 of the soldiers died there.
After that, the author devotes each chapter to describing the residents of the POW camp.
At the end of the book, as a reference, the author writes about some of the true characters, which I referred to as I was reading the book.
After reading this book, I'm sure to take another visit to the Andersonville POW camp.

Epic and amazing.
Have you ever had a book on your shelves that you know you will enjoy, except it’s sheer size makes you second guess yourself?
What if I start it and it’s a slow, dull book?
But finally, I took the plunge, and guess what?
The novel, set in Confederate Georgia, is about the infamous Andersonville prison.
The prose, the introspection, and the stories that make sure you will never forget what took place in Andersonville Prison.
Kantor does not neglect to feed his readers a sense of hope, as he connects the characters in the book.
Andersonville...all hope abandon, ye who enter here.
All hope was abandoned by the 45,000 Union soldiers imprisoned here.
MacKinley Kantor spent 25 years researching and two years writing this magnum opus, and justifiably being awarded the Pulitzer Prize.The prison itself was fact, along with the poor unfortunates imprisoned on it scant 20 acres.
The prison administration was fact.
Kantor merely populated the town surrounding it with fictional characters.
Kantor populates his novel with a cast of hundreds showing the epic scale of this deplorable prison.
Considered the ultimate novel of the Civil War; And justifiably so.
Andersonville was a prison camp for Union soldiers during the American Civil War. The author uses the facts and some historical characters, blended with fictional ones, to tell the story of the camp and the wider war.The story flows chronologically, but is interrupted by the life stories of several of those incarcerated. It was a brutal, dehumanising place and the intrusions remind us that there were real people behind the facts. The book is an impressive one; the story is a sad one.
Any five chapters of this novel --take them in a row, or cherry-pick--are more authoritative, more astutely conceived and better executed than--well--really, you'll find them better than any American novel written today.
No one would sit still long enough to travel back in time, to the American Civil War. They wouldn't stand for it.
It is a slice of our world at the time in question.Also I must remark that 'Andersonville' is one of the great 'food' novels.
Kantor exhausts the English vocabulary on his treatment of Civil War-era food.
We need more books like this.
Ugh, this book was painful to get through, and I only persevered because I was reading it for a book club.
Meandering, overwrought, and muddled, the story skips around randomly from character to character with no discernible rhyme or reason.
The attempt at "authentic" language is cloying and painful at points (perhaps not aided by the narrator's strategy in the Audible version).
There are some aspects of the story that are touching and heart-wrenching, which is the only reason this book did not get 1 star.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1956. The story is about the Civil War and a prison in Georgia called Andersonville where the Confederate Army held Union Soldiers. The book is very long at 747 pages and has many characters that are only referenced briefly in a chapter and are not heard from again. If you are interested in the Civil War I would recommend the 1975 Pulitzer Prize winning novel titled "The Killer Angels" written by Michael Shaara. I give this book 4 stars.
Savagry ruled the day and most people weren't cut out for the ruthlessness they encountered there.One of the more shocking examples was an old man following the men with diarrhea and eating the undigested food they found.
Long before the world was horrified by European concentration camp in WW II, men were subjected to conditions even more shocking in Andersonville, Georgia.
He followed the lives of some of the guards and leaders of the camp and how they felt, some were sympathetic to the Yankees and others just wanted them to die.
So I came into this book expecting to read about the noble confederate soldiers struggling against the much better equipped northerners.
Not matter what you think of the politics of the civil war, this book shows how the combination of incompetence, lack of manpower, lack of compassion, and just plain inhumanity came together to create hell on earth.
And it was physically and psychologically hellish for the prisoners, but also psychologically hellish for the guards.I came away ashamed of how the confederate forces treated their yankee prisoners, and horrified at the general inhumanity on both sides of the war.
Thus reading this book forever changed my outlook on racism, war, and how we treat the people around us.
A fundamentally fascinating history made unpalatable by the entrenched racism of the author and the reams of indigestible prose.
One can often make the case that judging an author by today's mores is to retroactively judge them unfairly.
Because the fundamental tenet of those books was universal truth deployed in beautiful language.
Despite its ambitions and despite the plaudits, this book had neither.
My wife has two ancestors who died at Andersonville, so on this summer's trip to Disney in Orlando we made a detour to Andersonville National Historic site in Georgia.
First we stopped at the Visitor's Center and were quite surprised that there was a National Prisoner of War Museum (haunting and somber).
After touring the site of the prison, I wanted to learn more so I picked this book from among the many in the bookstore.
It is historical fiction with mostly the civilians invented but it is an accurate account of the misery and brutal struggles of Andersonville Prison both inside and out.
I read this book as part of my Pulitzer Project.
It is about the Civil War era prison known as "Andersonville".This book sat on my nightstand for some time.
it was more plein air pig sty then anything else).Books like Andersonville are one reason I am so glad that I am forcing myself to read all the Pulitzer fiction winners.
I would never have chosen this book otherwise, and I learned so much.
The book was a fascinating and disturbing account of an era of US history.
I read this book up at Grandmother's cottage in Michigan when I was a kid. Someone, a guest perhaps, had probably brought it up to read over their vacation. In any case, like many of the books I read in childhood, this one was just laying around and I, being daily reminded of the centennial of the War Between the States, thought it would be interesting. What it was, however, was mortifying--quite the antidote to all the films and television shows glorifying the war.
evil theme - and does a decent job at sidestepping the romantic vision of the Old South - but in its desire to be inclusive of all narratives it both overworks itself and falls short...Here's why:To begin, Andersonville was an actual POW camp run by the CSA to house captured Union soldiers at the end of the war.
Obviously this is a 21st Century review of this novel (Which was written in the 1950s) but regardless of if someone was a "good" or "bad" slave owner doesn't excuse the fact that they owned people.
I just didn't care much for these characters or their troubles.The second portion of the book deals with the actual historic situations within the camp.
MacKinlay Kantor’s Andersonville barraged us with a documentary-like assortment of characters and loosely connected action events.
No truly central character; no real heroes; the historical context disqualifies calling the bad guys villains; no fundamental struggle with basic values, not really; nobody facing moral conflict, except where the reader himself may be making judgments from his perch well removed from the time and place.We got a heavy dose of pus, blood, vomit, diarrhea, gangrene and rotting corpses.
Even though Kantor apparently researched his book for 25 years, there’s still a lot of talk of this being one more propagandized account of the Andersonville debacle.
As I thought about those who hadn't or wouldn't like this novel, I realized that the critics just don't have the patience to work through a complicated piece of historical fiction, one that challenges the reader to keep track of characters and face a lot of unpleasantness about America's past.
The back stories of the Union prisoners are often a chapter in length, and in that chapter Kantor paints a full picture of that man's pre-war life, his loves, his ambitions.
These chapters give us a fleeting glimpse of a man--but that's because the man's life itself was fleeting, lost at Andersonville.
It was a bestseller when it was published in 1955 and won the Pulitzer Prize the next year.The book opens and closes with Ira Claffey, the local plantation owner who watches the prison get built, agonizes over the deplorable conditions and it closes after the American Civil War ends, as Claffey wonders if America will ever get back on track.
Claffey's story is told throughout, as he tries to come to grips with the changing moral landscape, as times get tough and he finally loses control over his slaves (he is, of course, a beneficent slave owner).Other chapters include interweaving stories of the deplorable and tragic conditions in the prison.
I enjoyed getting to know so thoroughly the various characters, both prisoners and their Confederate captors, cheering when the prisoners won some small victory and mourning the death of yet another noble Union soldier.
This book does an excellent job of portraying the conflict between the Confederate chain of command and those in charge of the prison, between the Union prisoners and the Confederate jailers, and even within each man as you see, time and again, men realizing that their enemies are really their brothers, worthy of whatever assistance can be rendered.
Each chapter in this long book features characters who re imprisoned in Andersonville during the Civil War--a horrid outdoor prison in the south.
To be fair, I will admit that a few characters reigned in the book and their stories were woven throughout.
But since I am being fair, I should also admit that the author didn't always do a good job of weaving their stories together and by the time a character was brought back up, I often had to go back and find his previous story, perhaps several hundred pages earlier, so that I might remember who the hell he was.
