https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36301023-my-plain-jane
This was everything I had wanted and so much more. I’ll be devastated if this series doesn’t go on forever because the Lady Janies truly belong together! I loved “My Lady Jane” SO much that when I got an ARC of this I knew I had to read it asap! I’m so excited for you all to read it in June when it comes out. It’s a long wait, but believe me it’s worth it! I’m just sad I now have to wait until 2020 for the next one!
4.5! So fun!
My Lady Jane was so so much fun when I read it last year, but I just felt like both the humour and the story were pretty bland in this book.
I felt like the previous book was a hilarious historical comedy; this one was a meh Jane Eyre retelling.I don't think it worked as well when the authors switched from a funny retelling of history to a not-so-funny retelling of a well-known book.
The real action doesn't kick off until more than halfway into the book, and the jokes fell a little flat instead of making me chuckle like they did in My Lady Jane.
Very fun book!
The authors took elements of the story of Jane Eyre and managed to turn it into a ghost hunting mystery adventure.
It very much felt like a mix between a classic romance novel and Ghostbusters, and it was just a lot of fun to read.
And I can safely say that even if you have never read Jane Eyre (as I haven’t), you can still wholeheartedly enjoy this book.
Another thing to note is that you also don’t have to read My Lady Jane before reading this one.
This is not a sequel, it’s a completely separate story.
Some notes:1.
You don't have to read MY LADY JANE first in order to enjoy this one.
The books are connected only by the authors and the first and last words in the titles.
And the look of the cover.
And the amount of fun we had writing the books.
But other than that, totally different books!
2. You also don't need to have read JANE EYRE to enjoy this book.
As with MLJ and knowing Jane Grey's history, we've got you covered in the prologue.3.
That said, I certainly do recommend reading both MLJ and JE!
More books!
Oh boy, this is going to be awkward.➸ Disclaimer: I loved My Lady Jane. Every time I think of this marvel of a book a huge grin takes over my face. And, partially, that's the reason I may be too harsh on My Plain Jane (well this and my slow but steady transformation to a judgy old lady that is too difficult to please). I really wanted to love it. I expected to love it. I'm afraid, though, that My Plain Jane was exactly what the title promised. Plain.  “Northern England, 1834, and the aforementio
Our plain Jane's brain was clouded by misplaced love for a great part of the book, and for the rest she kept refusing to join the Society without good reason.
Which brings us to the romance, or the lack thereof.➸ Well, aside from the oh so icky relationship between Jane and Mr. Rochester (and I'm not talking about the age gap), there was another love story on the making, and I couldn't care less about it.
“She took a shuddering breath. Crying, she told herself sternly, does not indicate that you are weak. Since birth, it has always been a sign that you are alive.”  4.5 bloody amazing stars. I loved the first book and I loved this one. “And if you find another suitable position, and leave me, you will pull it out. And I will bleed.” “What do you mean?” Jane said. “It sounds rather obvious, and slightly disgusting,” Helen said. “He’ll bleed.”  ~~ I just loved this part *lol.💫if you like the first
SO GOOD!Half of the book I was laughing out loud (really out loud, is very hard for that to happen), the writing was just on point.The romance between (I feel like it would be sort of a spoiler so not going to mention names, although I fell like you would probably figure it out after 5 chapters in) was so cute, funny, great, loving and AMAZING.
=> Helen is AMAZING, I love her, one of my favorite characters of this book!
every single Jane in all of history needs their own book please and thank you.This was such a clever twist on the "true" events behind Jane Eyre!
The general idea is that Jane Eyre and Charlotte Bronte are friends at Lowood school when Mr. Brocklehurst is murdered.
So through a series of fortunate (or unfortunate) events, she conveniently ends up as a governess at Thornfield Hall...The twists on the original story ranged from hilarious to straight up clever, but I think my favorite parts were the little details in each character.
This totally felt like a British comedy sketch of a murder mystery!
I'VE BEEN WAITING TO USE THIS MEME IN CONTEXT FOR YEARS...Wat? Tell me I'm not the only one who hoards weird memes and gifs and waits for proper context...
Alexander then enlists the help of Charlotte Bronte (yes, she is a character in this book), a talented writer who has taken it upon herself to write a novel about her best friend (Jane Eyre).
To simply put it, this book is both a retelling and an origin story of Jane Eyre.The Lady Janies sure do know how to make their readers laugh.
In any case, it was not surprising that I was able to relate to her love for reading and writing.My Plain Jane actually downplayed the romance between Jane Eyre and Mr. Rochester.
I am LIVING FOR THIS BOOK, but it is taking me a while due to reading a little more than six books at a time and some with other people.
So, therefore, know that I am so sad that it is taking me so long to read this book but also really happy I get to read it at a slower pace and stretch it out and enjoy it more.
- - -Thank you HarperTeen/HarperCollins for sending me a physical Advanced Reading Copy of this marvelous and stunning book and giving me my soul back because I'm pretty sure I lost in the pages of My Lady Jane the first time I read it.
MY JANE EYRE LOVING HEART IS SINGING
I wish that, some day, there would be dozens of these books, just lining book shelves and waiting to brighten someone’s day.This particular book was a combination of two things I adore: My Lady Jane, which I found so darn funny; and Jane Eyre, which is one of my favorite classics and is considered one of the most romantic books ever written.
My favorite aspect of this book, besides the humor element I’ve already mentioned, is the inclusion of a new character.
Charlotte Brontë became a character in the story that made her famous, and I loved that so much.
“This brings us to the real start of our story: northern England, 1834, and the aforementioned penniless, orphaned girl. And a writer. And a boy with a vendetta. Let’s start with the girl. Her name was Jane.” I'm currently doing an MPhil in English Literature and Jane Eyre is one of the books I'm examining. What this means is I know every freaking inch of the novel. I know what scholars have said, I know the dirty racist and imperialist undertones, I know critical interpretations of barely ther
I'm currently doing an MPhil in English Literature and Jane Eyre is one of the books I'm examining.
Helen dies, by the way, and her death is used to further Jane's character development.
'Never in any Jane Austen novel did the love interest pretend to be a fortune teller,' Helen said.
Yes, Jane Eyre was a bookworm in the original novel.
Jane Eyre was published in 1847.
Given that Bronte and Eyre are orphans, I doubt anyone bought them to the library to learn about Mr. Darcy.
The real Bronte didn’t read Austen until her first novel was published.
Yesssssssssssss. *hisses enthusiastically* A favorite classic, a favorite heroine, and a favorite YA author in Cynthia Hand. I'm going to aggressively hug this book when I get my hands on it.
This was so much fun! I didn’t like it quite as much as I expected to, but it was still such an enjoyable read and I am v happy to have read it! Also the HP reference slayed me
HEY YOUYEAH YOU  whoever is reading this review is automatically required to buy me this book. If you don't do this then you will have 63 years of bad luck. For shipping details, feel free to contact me 😊😊😊
2.75 stars!!!  ARC generously provided by the publisher via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review. Thank you Harpercollins! Arc #3I read My Lady Jane back in January and I absolutely loved it. I gave that book a 4.75 rating. I fell in love with the story and characters, but this book really gave me a hard time. I considered giving this book 2 stars but something (or should I say someone) stopped me. First of, I'm going to pinpoint the things I liked about this book. •The freaking cover! It
I fell in love with the story and characters, but this book really gave me a hard time.
They are so cute!Now I'm going to point out the things I don't like about this book.•The plot seems ordinary, I didn't feel any excitement when I read this book.
•It was too plain for me, it failed to hook and intrigue me, which was really disappointing because I was obsessed with the first book.•Lastly, I didn't like Jane.
She's my least favorite character in this book.
All in all, what I felt after reading this book is disappointment.
i should probably not expose myself like this but.... I had an ARC and forgot all about it, and still haven't read the book.and then I ask myself why my edelweiss requests are never accepted lmaoooooo
4.5 ⭐Aahh yes! This book was yet again soo much fun to read! I cant wait for My Calamity Jane 😍
4.5 ⭐️Aahh yes! This book was yet again soo much fun to read! I cant wait for My Calamity Jane 😍
I was so excited to read this book, but it ended up being not quite what I was expecting.
I love Jane Eyre (it’s one of my favorite classics) and I expected a fun retelling.
I kind of got that, but at the same time kind of didn’t.Also I just want to throw it out there that I have never read My Lady Jane, so I can’t say how it compares to that book.
I enjoyed the Jane Eyre aspects of the book a lot.
I loved seeing the new takes on classic Jane Eyre scenes and characters.
Dubbed as Jane Eyre meets the Ghostbusters, this story provides a wacky and fun retelling of the classic with lots of supernatural twists!
I adore Scooby-Doo so this worked really well for me!As with the first book, this story follows the perspectives of three main characters: Charlotte Bronte, Jane Eyre and Alexander Blackwood.
This is actually the second Jane Eyre retelling I have read this year and I can honestly say, I am much closer to reading it now than ever before.I had a fun time reading this and felt like it was a great book to read during October!
ayyyy book #1 done for the booktubeathon ✔this was really FUN and ridiculous and slightly silly. i preferred my lady jane over this one but nonetheless a great read.
ayyyy book #1 done for the booktubeathon ✔️this was really FUN and ridiculous and slightly silly. i preferred my lady jane over this one but nonetheless a great read.
I think I liked this one more than My Lady Jane which I didn't think was possible. But it is. This book was perfection. I wouldn't change a single thing about it, and I want to read it again already, despite finishing it two minutes ago. Do I have a problem? Yes. That problem is that this book ended.
What I do not like: My Lady Jane.What I do like: Jane Eyre.What I am doing: adding a My Lady Jane sequel retelling of Jane Eyre to my to-read list.In other words:
I loved the mystery/paranormal aspects of the story and of course the Jane Eyre references!
I know its unfair to compare My Plain Jane to its predecessor, but I couldn't ignore how bland this book was in comparison.Like I said before, Jane Eyre is one of my favorite books, and it's a classic tale for a reason.
The fact that our Jane in this book mooned after boys made me roll my eyes.A surprising addition to Jane's story that I actually enjoyed was the character of Charlotte Bronte.
I LOVE JANE AND ROCHESTER SO MUCH.I was surprised about how much I liked Charlotte and Alexander together.
It was a shame, however, that I didn't care about Jane, or Rochester, or anything connecting with the original classic.This book was just...dull.
Boo, that this was pushed back from May 1st to June 26th! But then, yay because we finally have a cover =D ---OMG...I literally just finished My Lady Jane yesterday, and now I find out that the three brilliant minds behind the book are partnering up again for another Jane themed adventure To which I say: Hell yes! I am ready for more fun, romantic, humorous, historic retellings! =D
I waited for this book for so long because I fell so much in love with the first book, My Lady Jane, and I was not disappointed one bit! I was thoroughly amused by this book and just ate it up quickly. It is entertaining and funny just like the first book! These three authors’ combined work is beyond amusing to me! Now I have to wait another year or so for Calamity Jane. Love love these Jane books! My quick and simple overall: Another funny and entertaining work by three awesome authors!
Rating 3.5 StarsI feel like I can't truly judge and review this book at the moment since I read it and didn't listen to it on audio.
The narrator for My Lady Jane I'm sure will be doing the narration for this sequel and she was the most phenomenal narrator I have ever listened to.
She really breathed life into the book and it's characters.
I feel like just reading the words on the page did not breathe enough life into the story so I will listen to it when it comes out then I will rate and review once more.
