https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6820.number9dream
Moving through a complicated coming-of-age tale that starts small with a quest for ones estranged father under control situations and further expands into a search for the meanings and acceptance of life while caught up in events beyond oneself, Mitchell questions reality and the nature of dreams all set to the soundtrack of the late, great John Lennon.From the very first page, it becomes obvious that Mitchell has grown as a writer in leaps and bounds from his previous novel, which was stunning in its own right.
She's obviously got a lot going for her besides her perfect neck, including a horribly pretentious style and a vividly dramatic penchant for detail, but while I had a very good time with some of his other novels all lined up in a row like some Voltron Robot of literature, this one just seemed to go on and on with rambling and disjointed plot-lines that EVENTUALLY, like, at the END wrapped up into the Matrix-Style "This Is Only A Dream" Science Fantasy extravaganza with immortal witches and people Outside Of Time that so punctuated his other novels.Don't get me wrong.
It's always a heavy mix of traditional literature, fascinating locations, interesting peoples, and OUT-THERE SF to tie it all together like a nightmare or a dream.Indeed.

It's like someone said to David Mitchell "Take this cliched plot, drop some acid and see what happens." And what happens is a lot.The first chapter had me scratching my head.
By chapter two I began to think the trick to this book was to stop trying to get it and just go with it.
(Stop trying to make it Murakami's Tokyo, Mary!) By chapter three I was immersed and thinking back to chapter one and how much fun this whole crazy book is.
This book is like that.The key I think is to just not take it so seriously.
But you see where I was coming from – I wanted to know what was what for the integrity of the story (as opposed to the story within the story, nested like these parentheses.)) The only points I took off for in this otherwise excellent book were for a few heinous crime sequences that I felt were over-the-top.
I almost got the sense that Mitchell didn’t feel the reality of them either (within the story, that is) since Eiji didn’t seem as affected by them as a real, sentient person probably would be.
Eiji Miyake is looking for his father but he finds many different things…Squeeze, squelch, squirt.
I am learning that laws of probability work differently in the field of lost property.The most important thing, however, is that while searching for his father Eiji Miyake finds himself and on the way he establishes his attitude to life.The eighth dream is titled: The Language of Mountains Is Rain and the language of number9dream is not just water – it is the other three elements as well.Any life is a quest…
When I declare Mitchell a brilliant writer, I don’t mean it any capacity to strip down the prose and tell some brutally honest tale in the Hemingway sense; he’s not in that business.
I don’t mean to say that he spins out a deft plot, a wildly original story (he wears his influences on his sleeves) but rather, I mean that David Mitchell is a level-ten wordsmither, capable of making any situation, no matter how banal or derivative come alive with soaring prose.
What seems to be a mess of splintered threads and tangential story lines is really the product of a book about the search for meaning.
Later on the book Eiji's dreams seem to take on greater meaning, as his subconscious attempts to make sense of everything that has happened to him on his Tokyo expedition.Readers of David Mitchell will know how ambitious his novels are, and it is something I admire him for.
The slow blossom of Eiji's relationship with Ai, his desperate longing for his unseen father, his heart-wrenching memories of Anju - these were the parts of the novel I loved most and will remember.This was Mitchell's second novel and it is the work of a writer still honing his craft.
I don't completely understand everything you revealed with my mind awake, but your echo resonates lucidly through my dreamtime.
You say: "Time may be what stops everything happening at once, but rules are different asleep." How I know this to be true, yet could never prove.
Repeated conclusions reveal nothing where conclusions don't exist.
What we experience, day and night, happens, regardless of comprehensible explanations.
"Dreams are shores where the ocean of spirit meets the land of matter...where the yet-to-be, the once-were, the will-never-be may walk awhile with the still-are."With eyes open or closed, meaning lurks everywhere amongst these pages, knowing no boundaries.
Mild SevenParliamentCabinPeaceKentHopePhilip MorrisMarlborough LightThat's the number of different cigarette brands cited and smoked in this novel.
Follow Miyake as he smokes, gurns, fantasises and bull-shits his way around Tokyo trying to find his long-lost Pops and enjoy the literary games and jousting word-smithery that accompanies this.
David Mitchell has once again cleared his literary throat and spewed forth a load of different writing styles.
Mostly you are left with the impression that he write to amuse himself; it's a way of stretching some newly formed literary muscle that he's developed.
This is my last Mitchell book left to read (I am now a Mitchell completist) and I was hoping for just a little more PoMo juice to squeeze out of his second novel.
Three dreams into it and I was afraid Mitchell was aping Murakami (Norwegian Wood, A Wild Sheep Chase) and Joyce (Finnegans Wake) a bit too much in his persuit of a dreamy father-quest novel.
By the end, however, Mitchell salvaged the novel.
Don't get me wrong, I liked it and obviously (I've now read all of Mitchell) I like how Mitchell writes, but I'm not sure #9Dream is even close to being top shelf for me of Mitchell's novels.
5 Stars - Phenomenal book!This is the fourth David Mitchell book I’ve read, and none have disappointed.
I have never known another author to compact so many emotions into one book and make the book a good read.
David Mitchell and John Lennon.
I think that's because the base story (that's what I call the generally plot of Mitchell's books - or what the main character is going through.
And when the real is wrapped in this sci-fi/fantasy it makes for an incredible story.Do I recommend this book?
The devil has all the best tunes, and the fiendish Mr Mitchell is in cahoots with Old Nick for the best stories too.
What worries me is what the deal involves?
This, Mitchell's second novel and the last one that I had not read, is the story of one who is punished by the God of Thunder, by being given exactly what he asked for.
Having lost his twin sister in that deal, bereft of a mother too, his quest to find the father he never knew becomes a compulsion that drives him into another perilous bargain with the Prince of Darkness himself, the head of one of the warring Yakuza gangs of Tokyo.
(hide spoiler)]So I might not be able to sort out in my head the meaning of Panopticon and the cartoonish lawyer Akikoi Kato, the deadly adventures with the Yakuza, brilliant set pieces though they are, the story telling animals, mini submarines in World War Two; and why chapter 9 is blank.
[Note to self: move book to three stars.]***This is what I wrote earlier:This is by way of a preliminary review, done in a state of confused uncertainty heightened by near cyclonic weather conditions in Sydney and all along the coast of New South Wales.
What's he doing in that weird hotel (this was the part that I personally hated the most)Around 200 pages in: Still doesn't make a lot of sense, but it's gripping reading300 pages in: I still don't get it...400 pages in: Done, I still don't get it, it's like a roller coaster ride on hallucinogens (not that I know what hallucinogens are like), fun but you don't know what ride you were on exactlyThis was my second try at David Mitchell and I must say that this was as far from my usual reading as anything I have read.
Beaches where the yet-to-be, the once-were, the will-never-be may walk amid the still-are”number9dream is the second novel by British author, David Mitchell.
Claude Debussy and John Lennon play significant roles, as do the Yakuza organised crime syndicate, an overabundance of cigarettes, some seriously weird pizza recipes, a cat, an absent mother and a dead twin sister.Mitchell manages to seamlessly include the journal of a WW2 Kaiten pilot, scenes from a surreal black and white movie, a fantastic tale starring a stuttering goatwriter, a hen and a Pithecanthropus, an account of sex slavery and organ theft, and, of course, quite a few dreams.
Reminiscent in many ways of a Haruki Murakami novel, "number9dream"'s propensity to shift between the real and the imagined burdens the novel with a frustrating format despite the compelling story that lies at the novel's core.
Set in Japan, where Mitchell spent eight years of his life, "number9dream" follows Eiji Miyake as he goes on a quest to find his estranged biological father he has never met.
Proving he has a keen eye for the culture in multiple eras, "number9dream"'s modern Japan is wholly realized and believable despite the fantastical and psychedelic sections that permeate most of the book.
Αναφέρει ότι ο πρωταγωνιστής του έχει αφήσει μισό το Κουρδιστό Πουλί κ δεν ξέρει τι απέγινει ο τύπος που κατέβηκε στο πηγάδι χωρίς σχοινί, παίρνει τον τίτλο του βιβλίου του από τραγούδι του Λέννον κ βάζει τον μεγάλο μουσικό να πει ότι το συγκεκριμένο τραγούδι είναι απόγονος του Norwegian Wood, αφήνει αρκετές ιστορίες ανοιχτές κ πάνω απ'όλα δημιουργεί μια ονειρική ατμόσφαιρα με τρόπο παρόμοιο με αυτό του Ιάπωνα στις καλύτερες του στιγμές.
Είναι διαφορετικό για ένα πολεμιστή σε έναν πόλεμο, διαφορετικό για μια πιανίστρια με υπέροχο λαιμό που ονειρεύεται να σπουδάσει στο Παρίσι κ φυσικά διαφορετικό για τον ήρωα που προσπαθεί να πιαστεί από κάπου (οπουδήποτε), ακριβώς γιατί η δικιά του ερμηνεία φαίνεται να οδηγεί στην ίδια την αναζήτηση του νοήματος.
REASONS I LOVED THIS BOOK:-It is by David Mitchell-It made me want to go have sushi & sake bombs-It was surprisingly funny-Not only did it remind me of Murakami, it referenced The Wind-up Bird Chronicle-It had the word "knickerbockers"I was rating this in my head as I went along (something I can't help but do since joining goodreads), and for the first part, I was liking it and thinking 3 stars.
Once I hit the halfway point, the Mitchell I know and love emerged, bumping it up to a four.
His character is slowly revealed not just by his actions, but also through his various dreams.
Set in Japan in the present or perhaps the near future, with several versions of early bits of the plot. Is it real or is it a computer game - certainly he plays computer games? Some wonderful metaphors and some ludicrously contrived and awkward ones. Too much organised crime and mindless violence for my taste, with little of the beauty of his other books to provide balance or contrast. (Number 9 Dream is a Beatles song that plays at a disco in Black Swan Green (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...).)
This was a book club read and none of us got through it, not even the most die-hard David Mitchell fans.
I guess this is proof positive that a knack for writing will not save your book if you have nothing particular to say.
As one person in our group described it, reading this book is like watching a musician play his scales very, very well---but after a while, you just want to hear him play an actual song for a sustained period of time.
Perhaps I'll have better luck reading Cloud Atlas or Black Swan Green.
For a lot of the book it was a 2-star read but the last 2 chapters were particularly good.
Still, this is not a book for the casual Mitchell reader.
Though it is chronological and only follows 1 character, unlike a lot of his work, each chapter has it's own sort of narrative style that makes it a bit jarring to read at times.
I liked our main character, even when I felt like I (as he) did not know where his story was going.
Glad nonetheless to have read it as Mitchell is always a treat, if not a challenge.
Dreams play with reality like kids with plasticine and create alternative meanings which having been auditioned by the present or the past, had been rejected in order to give way to other story-threads (the actual reality).
Mitchell succeeds in writing a great final chapter for a book which at some points seems unfocused, with details that could be easily skipped without altering the story.It's obvious all the way through the book that he is a great fan of Murakami's: not only does he say that the main character, Eiji, is reading "The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle", but he seems to even adopt Murakami's style and adapt it to his own way of creating literature.
It is so much simpler to bury reality than it is to dispose of dreams Writing a book and telling a story are obviously two very different projects especially for an author like Mr.Mitchell.
The Tokyo of Mitchell is a surreal place with characters constantly in search/with dreams of something.
In addition we have the changing cigarette brands that is maddening for a reader which makes you wonder if the entire book is actually a lucid dream of an insomniac.
Eiji, the main character, remains likable even as he's shuttled between hell and back, like, five thousand times in 400 pages and disappointed by nearly everyone who matters to him.
I liked the David Mitchellness and how minute details wind up mattering very much, though I think his hallmarks are far less defined here in his sophomore effort than they are even in his debut novel.
Some characters and a few scenes hogged a few too many pages: Had I found Eiji a little less interesting, the many detailed accounts of his odd jobs would have been downright tedious.
He is probably one of the most gifted authors who can weave incredible narratives while masterfully juggling a variety of styles; he makes his way through them seamlessly and beautifully, his stories take you on a journey across time and place, and the versatility of his style makes it seem unreal that the same author has written the various chapters.
Dreams are a recurring motif that runs through the book and the author makes it apparent from the first chapter itself that he likes to mess around a bit with conventional structures of narration.
Luckily, when everybody else foolishly headed out for a New Year's Day walk in the rain I was able to raid my host's bookcase and grabbed a copy of David Mitchell's number9dream; I'd enjoyed Cloud Atlas enough to try something from earlier...number9dream is the story of Eiji Miyake: a twenty year old Japanese lad from Yukashima who has arrived in Tokyo with the intention (or you might say dream) of meeting his father.
Then, ultimately, the book comes full circle as Eiji realises that a minor event at the start of the novel has become key to the completion of the end.The ninth chapter is empty.
I gave number9dream five stars way back when I first started rating books around here, but it was far enough removed from reading the book that I didn't feel I could write a review, so there is no chronicle of why I gave it five stars.
In many ways the story of Eiji Miyake is irrelevant when it comes to my final feelings about this book because it wasn't so much the story that made me love number9dream as the storytelling, and no matter the characters no matter the plot, if David Mitchell is telling the story, I am going to set the book down with a mixture of sadness and joy.
No less than 5 amazing stars. Originally posted here.Nine things about  number9dream 1. That was one helluva whirlwind read! Alternating between reality and fantasies-cum-dreams took me for a loop, but I'd gladly do it again. No one can do that to me and totally awe me like Mitchell just did. 2. Is this metafiction? Are there traces of metafiction in this novel? If the answer is yes to either question, then I think I could definitely get used to the genre. 3. "Maybe the meaning of life lies in l
No one can do that to me and totally awe me like Mitchell just did.
Are there traces of metafiction in this novel?
5. There is no question now about Mitchell's writing talent - to echo a buddy's observation, is there anything the guy couldn't do?
He can write convincingly as a different person, all within a single novel.
That tells a lot about how awesome this book is, doesn't it?7.
It made me curious about John Lennon's song, #9dream, from which the title is derived.
Because of this, I'm set to make a playlist devoted solely to songs mentioned in books.
Los momentos de realismo mágico quizás puedan chocar demasiado al principio, y confundir al lector hasta el punto de no entender qué está pasando, (algunas cosas sigo sin entenderlas incluso ahora) pero en su conjunto Number9dream es una novela que pese a sus defectos sigue siendo maravillosamente construida, escrita y, sobre todo, ambientada.Eiji Miyake es un joven de 19 años que está dispuesto a todo para encontrar a alguien.
