https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328439.I_Am_a_Bunny
A spiritual tale of a rabbit who goes by the name of Nicholas. No last name is given. In a way, he is Everybunny, making his way through the seasons of life as best he can. This is a classic "bunny v. environment" conflict, one which Nicholas survives through his wits. In one scene, he is threatened by rainfall, and just when you think it is going to be the end for him he decides to keep dry under a toadstool. A profound statement about the instinct to survive.
Oh I loved this book when I was little! I loved the illustrations so much! The bunny and his outfit and especially the mushrooms fascinated me! I need to see if I can find it! Oh nostalgia — take me home ! I remember one page or set of pages where there was rain! Beautiful and my favorite. 🐇
This is my grandson's favorite book; it's a really sweet story with colorful illustrations. He was dressed as Nicholas for Halloween this year--yellow shirt, red overalls, white bunny tail and a helmet with bunny ears. So cute! <3
Great alpha waves of contemplative calm emanate page by page from this exceptional book.
I still have a copy of this book from when I was a baby, and I have just started reading it with my one year old.
The pictures are absolutely beautiful, and the story is simple and short enough that my baby can pay attention the whole way through, without being annoyingly simple or cutesy.
While my baby's not quite at the talking stage yet, I think the pictures are really helpful in pointing out what the story is about - flowers, butterflies, birds, frogs, leaves, rain, and snow are all beautifully illustrated in vibrant colors that capture the baby's attention and (hopefully) are helping her learn too.
Ok, I lied. This isn't one of Kate's favorite books, it's my favorite book to read to Kate. She only likes it if I change the words so instead of "snow", I say "marshmallows" or something like that, and she can laugh and correct me. But then if I don't change the words, she gets mad and tells me "No, do it wrong!", but then it isn't really as fun, because how much of a surprise is it for me to read the words wrong when she just told me to. Great illustrations too. And it's dang short.
An epic tale covering a whole year in of a naturalist rabbit's life. The rabbit has a very limited wardrobe.
One of my girls first favorite books and what she learned to read (memorize) first. That little girl has been teaching English for 15 years. Now it's for the grandchildren to discover
A cute bunny in red overalls named Nicholas narrates the story; he lives in a hollow tree and shows us how he enjoys observing the changing seasons and playing with plants and animals.
I therefore disagree with Marilyn Courtot's review in Children's Literature, which says "there is nothing particularly exciting about this little romp through the seasons".
Laura Tillotson's article in Book Links cites a school library media specialist who always gives this book as a gift and receives rave reviews.
Courtot, Marilyn, Children's Literature Reviews Database, retrieved 10/3/08Tillotson, Laura.
I Am A Bunny is one of my all-time faves.
Beautifully and simply written by Ole Risom, and perfectly ilustrated by Richard Scarry, this was one of the few children's books I never tired of reading aloud.
The charming Nicholas, (the bunny of the title), takes us gently, sweetly, thoughtfully, and happily through the four seasons of the year.
We learn about the seasons, weather, colors, counting, animals, plants, and having fun outdoors.
I learn, each time I read it, to take a deep breath, smile, relax, and give thanks...for all these things...but especially for the child on my lap.
An almost mystical paean to the seasons, illustrated by Richard Scarry. A peaceful book that is still fraught with the raw power of nature. Such a contrast to that fraud Eric Carle, whose anti-capitalist screed "The Very Hungry Caterpillar" drips with socialistic, vegetarian dogma in every sentence.
This my my book as a child.
I found it in one of my old boxes just before my daughter was born.
It was the first book she would let me read all the way through was she was a tiny baby.
Now I would still have to say it is her favorite book at 18 months.
When I am done reading it to her she always says "more".
I don't even have to read it anymore because I have it memorized.
Sometimes when she gets fidgity when we are somewhere that she needs to behave I just recite it to her and it usualy calms her down!
Bunnies = cute. Bunnies in overalls drawn by Richard Scarry = cute overload.
Better than the usual claptrap. Not very accurate in its depiction of bunny life though. Also books with animals dressed in people clothes kinda ick me out, but I need to get over it I suppose.
8* art3* storyI would love to frame these illustrations and hang them in Squirt's room. The book is merely an excuse for Richard Scarry to revel in the seasons. The words hardly matter, and the author made them scarce. Does Squirt like this book as much as his Mom does? That's the question. [image error]
The only book my 13-month old ever brings to me to read. The story about cute little bunny Nicholas going through the seasons is calming (pleasantly soporific if the time is right) and the illustration of Nicholas lying in the sun and watching the birds is very pretty.
A gem! A beauty! We both experience a good deal of joy making a blowing sound after reading, "I blow the dandelion seeds into the air."
The only book Emmy ever hands me to read to her.
This book is, quite literally, the FIRST book I ever read.
It was read to me many, many times.
I very clearly remember the day that I wanted my mother to read it to me, but she was doing something else at the time, so I sat in the doorway of my closet and opened it up, wanting to look at the pictures again, at least.And suddenly.I knew how the words went, because I could have recited it to you from memory.But now the words on the page connected with the words in my head.And I was off to the races for the rest of my life.I still own the book.I may never have a child of my own to read it to, but someday it will be passed along to someone who will love it as much as I did, and still do.
I had forgotten all about this book until a mommy blog I read put it at the top of their best books for babies list.
I loved this book as a child.
I can remember reading it over and over again.
I loved the beautiful, colorful illustrations by Richard Scarry.
This book is magic to me.
I have no idea where the copy from my childhood is so I bought a new one and Phoebe and I are reading it together.
I hope she'll love it as much as I do.
My toddler loves this book.
(Apparently, so did I when I was her age.) Every page has pictures of things she knows by name (bunny, bird, butterflies, flowers, frogs, etc.) because they're common in books for this age and/or recognizable from the real world.
The vocabulary and story are simple, which means this is a book she's starting to understand, far earlier than many of her other books.
Very few words per page make for easy storytelling with a child who can sometimes be restless during long stories and turn pages prematurely.
I give this book as a gift for one-year-olds now.
Ike loves this book. He really does show a preference for it, through grunting. The illustrations by Richard Scarry are vibrant, full and beautiful, and the story is really sweet and simple. Love you Richard Scarry.
Easter gift from Aunt Christy and Uncle Gregor. Beautiful drawings. We had the very abridged story "I am Bunny" in the yellow "Best Storybook Ever" but this is the full length version and it is also a board book. Emerson has been ripping pages again so this is a big plus.
I'm absolutely in love with the illustrations of this book <3
I read this book between 10 and 15 times a day. Definitely a favorite in our house!
Great book for my 5 month old granddaughter!
Scarry is my fondest picture book memory...
I love vintage animal drawings - this book could be wordless, the illustrations are wonderful.
Love this story of seasons. So cute and Richard Scarry's illustrations always rock.
First book I ever read, at age three.
