https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99442.The_Secret_Life_of_Plants
I grew up next door to a tree nursery, and spent my childhood running up and down rows of azaleas and camellias, and reading books in the branches of an old apple tree.
I cannot remember a time in my life when I did not talk to plants.
I must admit, the day we used the ball of cow dung that had been buried on a full moon and left in the ground for a year or so before we dug it up was something else.
We also planted by the phases of the moon.
I have never seen such a lush, productive garden or such beautiful grounds, Of course we are connected to the plants.
In addition this book is poorly organized, in a dire need of editing and at times deadly boring.The authors’ propose that we/human beings have a conscious connection to the plant world.
Or at least I thought so.“As Sauvin's main problem remained that of getting his plants to be sharply attuned to his person rather than to their immediate environment, when he was away for several days, he had to devise some means of attracting his plants' attention even more effectively than addressing them over them on long-distance phone.
(very true!)These experiments led Sauvin to wonder if plants might not react just as well to emotions of pleasure and joy as to pain and shock.
Do you think this is a boring book?
I'm not an 'in tune with nature' person and prior to this book I didn't look at trees in any special way.
This book is very far from boring!
True it was written in the 70s but the experiments inside date as far back as the 1800s.
A true eye opener, this book has converted me into a nature enthusiast!
This book is profound. I know you're thinking of course a vegan is going to like this book. But, it almost scares me. I mean..if I can't eat plants what can i eat? I need another copy of this book though cause I didn't finish it. I ended up giving it away...seriously not because I didn't want to finish it but b/c the other person NEEDED TO READ this book.
I would recommend this book only to people who love plants and gardening.
Basically, the book is trying to prove that plants have "feelings" and are extremely sensitive to human thought.
I was reading this book in my living room near my houseplants and at one point, looked up to apologize to how poorly I treat them!
All living things respond to kindness and concern, why not plants?
I, for one, have started paying better attention to my houseplants and plan to extend some of the ideas in the book to my vegetable gardens.
A gardener can always dream!
It is very important to keep an open mind throughout the entire read, as the authors use quite an open dose of Writer's License, and many of the intended hypotheses have since been proven one way or the other (some of the major and emotional hypotheses having since been proven false) and other things are just downright incorrect (Washington-Carver and peanut butter).
There are some marvelous insight, however, despite all of those oversights (and do please remember the amount of scientific discoveries since the early 1970s)...Overall a great read for open-minded individuals, but there are points that will make you cringe if you are used to scientific process or involved in any way with studies in Biology.
I don't know where I found this book, what compelled me to buy it, or why I started reading it, seeing that I had never sought it out or knew anybody else that had ever read it.
Or maybe a plant willed it to happen somewhere.
This book follows the studies of various scientists that have proposed that plants not only have the ability to feel pain and other human emotions, but can also anticipate them, adding psychic and telepathic to the list of abilities that plants have.
In one of the experiments, a plant could anticipate and feel the pain of some live brine shrimp getting boiled in the next room.
I came across this book in a second-hand bookstore in Antigua, Guatemala, complete with colourful wild crayon scribblings inside the covers.
What an extraordinary book this is.
Some parts are recognisably connected to "regular" science, and some are plainly looney.
Mainstream science in many ways is blinkered, and incapable of considering a lot of the radical material covered here.
The most important thing however is that throughout runs a thread which recognises the undeniable connections that exist between all living things, human beings and plants obviously included.This is an astonishing audacious fascinating and gorgeous book.
With or without crayon drawings.
This book is what really excited me so much, I chose to study Plant Genetics. To learn that plants communicate when they're either stressed or happy. Yes, plants have feelings too - we just have a hard time understanding them - in many ways plants are alien creatures. They live, act (yes, they act), and reproduce in ways very strange to mammals.If you think plants are boring and totally uninteresting (like my college zoology instructor), give this book a try. You'll be surprised at the atypical research presented in this book.
In The Secret Life of Plants: A fascinating account of the physical, emotional, and spiritual relations between plants and man, Peter Tompkins chronicles numerous scientists and their experiments with plants through the centuries.
The Secret Life of Plants inspired me to look further into the world that I inhabit and to take back science from the specialist dictocrats!
This book is life-changing. You will never consider your interaction with plants/nature the same afterwards. Study after study, experiment after experiment - this book is full of the indisputable evidence that plants are sentient and possibly communicate with other worlds. While the reading can be a bit heady, it covers such a fascinating topic so broadly, it doesn't matter. Artists, scientists, and students all have contributed to incredible work with plants to reveal just how alive they are. Highly recommend.
This non-fiction book discussed totally ridiculous, yet amazing research from the 70s regarding the empathetic and telekinetic powers of plant life.
tomkpkins' and bird draw on extensive fringe research on the parapsychological and superscientific (that is, both of/within and above/on the fringe of "science") to ground their convictions and central claim that plants are sentient, feeling, communicative beings which can communicate with mindful humans who tap into their energetic frequencies.
Not a science book.
They dont follow guidelines of science.
It has an annoying chauvanistic undertone which begins in the introduction, when a general statement is made about women liking to decorate their houses with plants.
I dont know if it is true, but I have seen a number of brine shrimp, and I would like to know how they know which are males and which are females just by looking at them swim around.
Sexism is annoying and helps to invalidate their claim to "science" as far as I am concerned.
This is an older book that I think was published in the 70s, if I remember correctly.
I include it under the bookshelf of shamanism because it explores the level of Consciousness within the Plant Kingdom.
The authors set many different environments for the plants and recorded how the plants responded.
It goes to how plants develop relationships with their environment and even with animals and people.Our human senses are very limiting and just because plants may not respond in a manner that we can easily observe does not mean that they do not respond.
Plant Consciousness is just different than ours!
I came across this book by pure accident and was drawn into it in a way I cannot explain.
On the one hand I felt a salivating fascination and on the other it made me want to laugh hysterically at the absurdity of it.
That being said, I felt almost comforted by the unsophisticated 70's vibe of the book.
Plants are way more intriguing to me now.
I watch my sugar snap peas send out their tendrils which then search for and curl around the wire I strung up and I recognise that the plant is a living thing.
Sorry plant...
Cleve Backster invented the Galvonometer otherwise known as the first "Lie Detector" before the advent of the polygraph being developed for use of studying the most fragile admissions of hopeful intelligent life and extra sensory perception(with plants).
The book proves that since 1966 and the dawn of Botanical research Backster and his research of all species of plants are entirely sensitive to any mirroring human emotion.
Later engineers had touched upon Backsters creation to make yet even more sensitive instruments for more acute research into exploring the depths of the sensory perception;extra to Humans- that would lay within all plant life.
Comprehensive info about--you guessed it--PLANTS.
Contains some nonsense (in part due to the book being so old), as well as some wisdom, so pick and choose what chapters you would most like and then skip the rest.
I appreciated the admirable account of George Washington Carver, noble genius, and also liked the idea that people should approach eating plants with a feeling of reverence.
After all, plants are living things that die in order for us humans to live.
I found my prayers over meals became more thoughtful as I considered the soil, air, sunlight and water that had all gone into the material I now consume.
Reading this book makes me feel stoned. In a good way. A lot of sentient root-tubules seeking sunlight, and responding via ESP. Hard to tell if there's any science buried in all the pseudo-science, but it seems likely. In any case the more far-fetched stuff is I can't read this on my way to work, it'll ruin my ability to focus. But it's a great weekend read... and may convince me to change my life back to the plant-loving hippie lifestyle I should be living.I love it.
Some might say this book is airy fairy la la hippy crap. Personally I like the thought that plants are sentient in ways people don't fully understand. Science and evolution are clearly valid explanations, but there is much left unexplained and its prudent to keep ones mind open to other more ethereal possibilities.
Some very convincing stuff here, but then they blew it near the end, by going over the top somewhat.
The Secret Life of PlantsThe book covers experiments from around the world and features many familiar names from the scientific and philosophical communities such as Alessando Volta, Edgar Cayce, Franz Anton Mesmer, George Washington Carver, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Luigi Galvani, Manly P.
Smith continuously broadcast music to a small plot of Embro 44XE hybrid corn from the day of its planting to harvest time.
At harvest time the Departure plants stimulated with music produced 186 bushels per acre as against only 171 for the silent plot.
In so-called "enriched" white bread, with the vitamins and minerals removed, nothing is left but raw starch, which has so little nutritive value that most bacteria won't eat it.
I know this doesn't do any justice to this complicated subject, but a better discussion will have to wait for a better book on the topic to come along, or for someone else to tackle it entirely."The Secret Life of Plants" is about the experiments done by various people with plants which make it clear that plants are infinitely more interesting and complex than we assume.
Some of the stuff is dismissable (scientifically), Willhelm Reich being interesting for other reasons, but perhaps not in the more narrow sense of the scientific attributes of plants.
The authors cover an enormous volume of literature as they review and present the various aspects of plant life and its connections with the human world.
The book affirms what many of us already believe: that plants respond to thought, intention and action.
The language definitely will benefit from a round of good editing.The account given, of over-exploitation of soil, and of the ill effects of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, is grim and relevant.This is a book that makes at least one controversial claim on every page!
It says that plants, animals and humans are affected by the phase of the moon, and the positions of the planets and all the other stars and celestial bodies!!
It says dowsing works!!!!
This book may not always make you completely believe its conclusions but it will make you start to b
An inquiry into plant consciousness that opens thought provoking windows in to a broad range of topics from biology and physics to our connection with the divine.
There are SO many interesting facts and fascinating experiences in this book.
This is a great book to read if you're doing any kind of gardening, though it ventures well beyond plants.
I did find the writing to be a bit heavy on names and historical details at times, but it just goes to show how well researched the material was.
I am curious how this information has evolved since the time it was written (nearly two decades ago).I definitely recommend this book!
A book that really opened my eyes to nature and its capabilities. I was captivated by some of the topics....do plants have feelings? A good incite into the natural world and mind expanding, there is so much we take for granted, this book takes you on a journey discovering the small vibrations of life and how essential they are. If you believe talking to your plants makes them grow stronger then this is the book for you!
Plants can detect the thoughts of humans around them..and they respond to humans actions towards plants!!! Organic Farmers Rule!!! this month's The Sun magazine (Oct 2012) has a great feature story "Sowing Dissent" about real farming methods...not Monsanto's. Lab people we should all be aware of the importance of the millions of bacteria that are part of our bodies and our health. If you want Info on The Sun, ask me. No Advertisements in this magazine. Subscriber supported.
For anyone truly interested in the sciences and plants, this book contains some fascinating forays into the nature of plants. It is a sort of survey historical research (scientific and otherwise) about all facets of plant-ness. Electro-magnetism, ESP, alchemy, music... plants have had more time than any other lifeform on earth to develop responses to their environment, producing amazing results.
Who knew plants were capable of emotion and connection to human beings? Like most people I'd heard that plants like classical music and they thrive when people talk to them. However, I was skeptical. Learn about the good guys and the bad guys researching the plant kingdom. Find out what plants are really capable of perceiving. This book is well-written and reads more like a novel.
