https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/527495.The_Autobiography_of_Alice_B_Toklas
Yes, he said, everybody says that she does not look like it but that does not make any difference, she will, he said." Well, I can't really say if Gertrude Stein ever looked like Picasso's portrait of her in real life, but in my imagination, there is no other way to see her, exception made for Man Ray's photograph of her in front of the painting which is a brilliant double portrait of the grand lady through two artist lenses:Whoever is in love with the painters and writers who frequented Paris during the first decades of the 20th century must read Gertrude Stein's brilliant account of the era.
She was also a lesbian, living with Alice Toklas who spoke to the wives of the important men Stein met.
So this was written by Stein under the guise of her friend and lover.
-Gertrude Stein, by Pablo Picasso (1906)Other than that, it's a bit dull Stein advocates for the beauty of writing, for creating artistic sentences and prose; yet, for all that, she has little to know skill at doing so.
There’s nothing in her words except endless repetition about her own books.
I’ve also read Paris, France and had a similar reaction to the dull nature of the writing.
Or maybe you want to hear more about Picasso and Matisse and Hemingway, which were my favorite parts of the book.
Maybe you want to read about Paris during World War I, and how empty of men the world had seemed then.For me, I'm still fascinated by the Lost Generation and will read more Hemingway and Fitzgerald (because I didn't fully appreciate them when I was younger), but I may have had my fill of Stein for now.
That was how much I knew about Gertrude Stein prior to reading The Autobiography of Alice B.
They made the acquaintance of T.S. Eliot (he and Stein quarreled over split infinitives -- isn't that great?), Henry James, F.
And those are just most of the people I have heard of.No, it’s not because they volunteered for the American Fund for the French Wounded during World War I, though that was noble.
I loved the idea that Stein wrote the book in the style of an autobiography by Toklas because she became tired of waiting for Toklas to write the book herself.
Based on the description, this book should be amazing: Stein, writing as her companion Alice Toklas, describes how they came to live in Paris, World War One, and the various artists and writers who visited their famous salon at 27 Rue de Fleurus.
Stein is right in the middle of it, helping Hemingway with his writing and discussing punctuation with TS Eliot, but Toklas freely admits that she isn't an artist, and always keeps herself apart: "The genuises came and talked to Gertrude Stein and the wives sat with me.
643. The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas, Gertrude SteinThe Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas is a 1933 book by Gertrude Stein, written in the guise of an autobiography authored by Alice B. Toklas, her life partner. In 1998, Modern Library ranked it as one of the 20 greatest English-language nonfiction books of the 20th century.اتوبیوگرافی آلیس بی. تکلاس - گرترود استاین (آگاه) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سوم ماه آوریل سال 1992 میلادیعنوان: اتوبیوگرافی آلیس بی. تکلاس؛ نویسنده: گرترود استاین؛ مترج
Toklas, Gertrude SteinThe Autobiography of Alice B.
Toklas is a 1933 book by Gertrude Stein, written in the guise of an autobiography authored by Alice B.
در سال 1902 میلادی یعنی در اوج گردهمایی خلاقانه هنری به فرانسه رفت، و به همراه برادرش لئو در خانه شماره 27 خیابان رود فلورو ساکن شد.
این خانه در تاریخ هنر به کانون گردهمایی هنرمندان نقاش، عکاسان، شعرا و نویسندگان مشهور است.
وی تا سال 1912 میلادی در پاریس زندگی کردند و تنها یک‌بار بین سال‌های 1934 میلادی تا سال 1935 میلادی برای ارائه‌ ی یک سلسله سخنرانی به آمریکا بازگشتند.
I don't dispute the book's importance, by Stein's style drives me bonkers. I'd much rather read ABOUT her than actually read her. That said, I'm glad she existed-- I'm also glad I'm not forced to read this all the time.
Except I don't think they appreciated the genius part I recognized after reading this book...Here's what I know about Gertrude Stein: She was an asshole.I say that in a joking way.
Thinking about this all too much is enough to cause a brain aneurysm.So what did I learn about Alice?:*She did not like hot weather.
I want to be more pissed at Stein, but I have to admire the way she really seems to be poking fun at the reader.Well played, Stein, well played.Seriously, though, don't read this book if you actually want to know anything about Toklas.
"And now I will tell you how two Americans happened to be in the heart of an art movement of which the outside world at that time knew nothing." I'm ashamed that I haven't delved into Stein's work until now, but quite honestly, at 900+ pages, The Making of Americans seemed daunting. Yet when I saw Stein's character in the movie Midnight in Paris, and I read Hemingway's A Moveable Feast, I knew it was time to read the work of one of the few women writers of her time and place. So I started with
"And now I will tell you how two Americans happened to be in the heart of an art movement of which the outside world at that time knew nothing."
Yet when I saw Stein's character in the movie Midnight in Paris, and I read Hemingway's A Moveable Feast, I knew it was time to read the work of one of the few women writers of her time and place.
For years Stein had been asked to write a memoir and she refused.
She was an important figure within American literature--especially once you consider how many writers she mentored and introduced to Parisian society (i.e.: Hemingway) and how many manuscripts she read and edited.
She was friends with anyone who was anyone in the artistic and literary circles of early 20th century Paris.
The sheer amount of name-dropping in this book is immense; Picasso, Braque, Man Ray, Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Joyce, Pound, Beach, et al.
Although don't go into this book expecting something along the lines of Hemingway's A Moveable Feast, this majorly focuses on the artists of Paris, not the writers.
Since I'm doing my BA in English Literature and History of Art this book was just fabulous to me.
This is a very niche book, but if you fit into that niche then this is essential reading.
It is a novel written as though Stein’s partner Alice Toklas is writing an account of Stein’s life in Paris before and after the First World War. It is also an account of those many famous and not so famous writers and artists who passed through their home: Picasso, Matisse, Cezanne, Braque, Hemingway, Fitzgerald, the Sitwells, Appollinaire, Eliot and many others.
Reading it is slightly confusing and you have to think on your feet at times: sometimes it feels as though you are watching Stein as described by Toklas until you remember Stein is writing as Toklas, observing herself.
Years before, they had another adopted girl who died of leukemia before she was a teen.They are my Gertrude Stein (GS) and Alice B.
Toklas (ABT).
The difference is that GS and ABT did not just read them or see their work.
These long dead authors/artists will come alive before your eyes (the best, I suppose, to me at least, is the part where GS and ABT met Hemingway, then working for a newspaper, and before he wrote his great novels, GS giving him some pointed advice).This is, however, more than gossips.
Toklas written by her great love, Gertrude Stein.
Stein wrote this work in the conversational style of Toklas, who was her life partner.
One of the reasons I wanted to read this book was for Stein's impressions of Ernest Hemingway, who held Stein up to ridicule in A Moveable Feast.
Reading what Stein had to say about Hemingway in this book - almost all of it extremely unflattering - made me realise that Hemingway's portrait of Stein in A Moveable Feast was effectively his revenge.
Stein, of course, would have wanted the book read for the pleasure of reading the work of a literary genius.
I am still to read Stein's first novel, Three Lives and her long The Making of the Americans both of which were mentioned a lot of time in this book but I have an inkling that Stein's writing style or voice here is different from what she used in those two books.
From reading Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer, I am just wondering how come Stein and Toklas did not meet him and his lover, Anais Nin. They could have a foursome date and that would be interesting the drunkard Miller mentioning Stein in his book and genius Stein doing the same to Miller.
Não costumo ler biografias, mas tinha alguma curiosidade nesta.
Por saber que Gertrude Stein conviveu com pintores e escritores famosos, pensava que ia ficar a saber pormenores interessantes das suas vidas.
Mas, tirando uma coscuvilhice ou outra (que o irmão de Stein disse ser tudo mentiras), não passa de descrições rotineiras do género: Matisse veio jantar e Apollinaire embebedou-se; Picasso está a pintar e Stein está a escrever; fomos ao café com Braque e ao ballet com Gris...
Provavelmente estou a dizer uma barbaridade, mas é assim tipo revista de sociedade (A Caras, por exemplo) para intelectuais.
I read this in my last year of college, in an autobiography seminar. Though it's not really an autobiography. A fictional autobiography.I enjoyed it. Our class ultimately decided that it was an amazing love letter to Alice from Gertrude. It is incredibly pretentious and presumptious, but a love letter nonetheless. Just because the author is hopelessly self-involved doesn't make it any less a love letter.Beautiful.
You might be tempted to dismiss this book out-of-hand, either because of Gertrude Stein's reputation for unreadable austerity or because it's basically a bunch of bohemians (yes, they're famous bohemians, but the point stands) running around Paris and London, but I'm here to tell you it's well worth your time.
Stein's style is a little repetitive, but has an easy conversational flow and quite a few beautiful moments, and besides, the book bristles with wit and an arrogance that's just on the right side of amiable.
I don't think Stein's on her way to my list of favorite authors or anything like that, but this is a good way to spend a few days' worth of reading time.
The ego of Gertrude Stein was too hard to swallow, particularly combined with the absolutely atrocious writing. This woman seriously compared herself to Shakespeare at some point. Shakespeare and this...No, just no. Horrible horrible horrible. Worse than Hemingway and Kafka.
Yes. Finally found, rather Ruthie found, in a bookshop here and finished her in a few days.
Gertrude Stien appears at least five times on every page usually with some remark about being friends with Picasso or not having interest in some other painter or person of prewar, war, or just post wwI era.
Interesting as a writer to try to write in sentences not in words but in sentences.
I however, find myself writing very all the time in my sentences now, and that is distrubing but only one consequence of her genius.
Metti insieme Alice Toklas, Gertrude Stein e la traduzione per Einaudi di Cesare Pavese e otterrai una miscela esplosiva.
"Autobiografia di mia madre" di Alice Toklas è una opera straordinaria che ci racconta due donne dalla cultura raffinata: Gertrude Stein e Alice Toklas.
Parigi e Rue du Fleurus 27 sono il salotto letterario ad accogliere i grandi del 900 con cui si intavolano discussioni, risate e battibecchi.
Un salotto letterario intriso di arte, cultura e splendore con figure che hanno cambiato il loro secolo regalando, a chi ha il piacere di leggere queste pagine, momenti unici di cui noi siamo testimoni.
About six weeks ago Gertrude Stein said, it does not look to me as if you were ever going to write that autobiography. You know what I am going to do. I am going to write it for you. I am going to write it as simply as Defoe did the autobiography of Robinson Crusoe. And she has and this is it. Stein is a fascinating character in literature's history: her prose is messy and circular and fascinating. She was an axle, in many ways, of Paris society, befriending artists (Picasso; Matisse; Gris) and
About six weeks ago Gertrude Stein said, it does not look to me as if you were ever going to write that autobiography.
You know what I am going to do.
I am going to write it for you.
I am going to write it as simply as Defoe did the autobiography of Robinson Crusoe.
Stein is a fascinating character in literature's history: her prose is messy and circular and fascinating.
I liked the prose: the choppy imperfection of it, of picking through the chaff to finds lines that just leap to life.
My mother’s father was a pioneer, he came to California in ‘49, he married my grandmother who was very fond of music.
My mother was a quiet charming woman named Emilie.A splendid book where we can find some historical artists such as Picasso, Matisse, Braque as well as some famous writers, Ernest Hemingway among others.The book is written in a prose mode which makes the reading flows quite well.
The description of how the intellectuals faced the World War I is also described by the author.Portrait of Gertrude Stein by Pablo Picasso inside Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York City.Matisse, Woman with the Hat.
This book is like be stuck next to someone's boring wife during the longest dinner party ever.
Sure, she name drops like nobody's business but what she has to say is dull and inane.
He was charming and Gertrude Stein liked him very much.
The same things are mentioned over and over but the thinking isn't linear so you end up saying "wait, didn't that person die 20 pages ago?"This book could have been half the length or maybe just one of those "People Magazine 10 Things You Don't Know About Me" 1.
It's not Gertrude or Gertie or Ms. Stein.
It's Gertrude Stein.2.
I like to take long walks in the heat.3.
I will confess that I was intimidated by this book, having read only isolated bits of Stein and having heard much about her difficulty.
It's an odd sort of memoir, skating along across the surface of Stein's and Toklas's life together and almost never delving into any sort of interiority or emotional depth, but it's full of clever lines and sharp little portraits of all the writers and artists that they knew in Paris before and after WWI, and if you read between the lines even a little, there's this great, subtle sense of the long intimacy between Stein and Toklas.
While reading it, I sometimes got the sense that it was all just a big shared joke between the two of them, and Gertrude and Alice were still off somewhere sitting together and chuckling over it all.
Self-obsessed snoozefest of a memoir detailing to excruciation the dining habits and interior designs of post-War Paris Bohemia. That Stein can make figures like Picasso boring when disfigured by her ugly syntactic compulsions is a perverse sort of accomplishment, I suppose. Genius my ass.
2.5/5 [Stein] once told me that when she was young she had read so much, read from the Elizabethans to the moderns, that she was terribly uneasy lest some day she would be without anything to read. It's great when the popularity machine known as the canon spits out the most facile representation of one member of an underrepresented demographic's work and goes here, see? It's not our fault we've gone and ignored good half of the population (more like 80% if you factor in men of color), just look
I did delight in the brief mentions of Jane Harrison and Mina Loy, and even some of the more insufferably well known male types for the sake of filling in the gaps, but the text, experimental as it was, did its best to normalize everything that was far from normal in those days, and considering how the rest of the 20th century treated Toklas when she outlived her partner, I wouldn't say the pretense was worth it.
She knew how to bet on winning horses, she said F Scott would still be read and praised when all his peers were dust; I believe Hemingway probably did skip a couple grades by hanging out with her, and she seemingly championed him when no one else was.
However, this books gives no indication why all the great figures of the age could have possibly wanted to hang out with her, free meals?
What Stein does is demonstrate a sense of freedom that disregards gender; feeling like an exception among one's own gender can be a stepping stone to a wider individualism applied to others: to ways that do not consider gender relevant in plenty of situations and to using gender less as a social categorisation for others - an ideal of equality which at least some strands of feminism have forgotten.
I did enjoy this book, but not as much as Gertrude Stein probably enjoyed writing it, or thinks that I should like it.
Stories about other people inevitably wind up being stories about Gertrude Stein (she's like that person who says "That's enough about me, let's talk about you.
Stein and Toklas bimble about in a Ford ambulance and nobody dies and after the war in Paris there are more young people than ever before (which was different from every other city in Europe I should imagine).What's odd is that despite being intensly self-centered and Stein being quite unlikable and the gossip being particularly dull, I quite enjoyed it - although perhaps not in the way that Stein would have liked me to have enjoyed it.
At first it just seems like simply a gossipy good time, but it also functions as a fascinating mise en abyme (the author speaking about herself through the voice of her partner, etc). It's a thoroughly delightful portal through which to slip into 1920's Paris. I'd wager that Hemingway's A Moveable Feast is generally preferred, but I am definitely Team Stein.
