https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89838.My_Mother_s_House_Sido
Yet only a Colette can write about a mother like that (her own) with a memorably bittersweet nostalgia like this (her mother already 71 years old at the time, a widow, with various illnesses):"At five o'clock in the morning I would be awakened by the clank of a full bucket being set down in the kitchen sink immediately opposite my room."'What are you doing with that bucket, mother?
Whereupon my elder brother insisted that my mother should keep still and that an old servant should sleep in the little house.
This would have to be one of my very favourite Colette books.Sido was Colette's very earthed, very wise,very "french" Maman.Its some years since I read it which is why I have put it in my re-reads. But to savour their rustic village life again is like renewing an old acquaintance.
“Any writer whose existence is long drawn out turns in the end towards his past, either to revile it or rejoice in it.” This is Colette’s comment in the preface to this beautiful book, which is her own thoughtful gaze into the past.
The unifying figure among these stories is Sido, Colette’s mother.
She’s a woman who sees the world in a fresh way, who can respond to a child reading ghost stories by saying,
“Have you been reading that ghost story, Minet-Chéri?
And have you read that idiotic story about a dead woman’s revenge?
The magic of Colette's evocation of motherhood--and of her mother--is that she builds it by also evoking what it is like to be someone's child, someone's sibling.
I'm left with the distinct impression that when Colette paints her mother's goodness, she is painting just one possibility.
By showing all the flaws and idiosyncrasies in Sido's character, and yet demonstrating what a peerless blessing she was to everyone she met, Colette opens the possibility that there might be as many ways to be good as there are ways to be human.
so this is her masterpiece apparently, and it was one of the last things i got around to reading by her. it makes sense it is--the best thing about colette is her vivid description of sensory experience and little daily luxuries, and such descriptions abound here and are very strong, even for her. also makes me understand why proust admired her--the best things he does with the sensual aspects of memory she does here. a truly pleasurable read.
This is one of my all time favorite books. I rarely re-read a book, but I have read this book many times. This is writing that Colette did for herself, unlike Cheri and other books that she wrote at her husband's request. This is a personal memior as seen through her eyes as a child. Magical stuff!
Even if you only read a vignette or two from this book, it's worthwhile. Colette's recollections of her childhood, and her parents in particular, is amazingly rich, both in style and emotional substance.
I read this or Earthly Paradise every fall. Somehow it seems like the right time to fall into Colette's meditations on childhood and family and tramping through gardens and over fences into fields.
Some books, like The Snarkout Boys and the Avocado of Death and Pippi in the South Seas, appeal to my childlike love of mischief and weirdos.
My Mother's House & Sido took me to a different place from my childhood, completely dreamy, sensual and romantic.
I loved her strange siblings who read books in trees and made up epitaphs for fun.
the warm sitting-room with its flora of cut branches and its fauna of peaceful creatures; the echoing house, dry, warm and crackling as a newly-baked loaf; the garden, the village.
My Mother's House (originally Claudine's House, 1922) is a collection of very short anecdotes about the lives of the author and her family, with particular focus on her mother, as she grew up in rural France in the late 19th century.
Nobody, I think, could swear that all of the stories are 100% true,Similarly, Sido (1929), which is an abbreviated form of the author's mother's name, consists of three short stories, one each predominantly dealing with her mother, her father and her two older brothers.
Colette also had a half-sister, who was somewhat estranged from the family after her marriage, at the husband's insistence.it is easy to see why Colette is a French national treasure.
I thoroughly enjoyed this memoir, especially Colette's lush and sensual descriptions of the rural village in 19th century France where she grew up under the care of her unconventional and fascinating mother (Sido) and her father, the Captain, who was passionately in love with Sido (his nickname for his wife Sidonie).
Last week, I read Colette's "The Ripening Seed," but I didn't like it at all.
Because of "My Mother's House & Sido," I will enjoy reading other works by her.
I can't believe how wonderful this is.
I can't believe I hadn't managed to read it years ago.
I mean, I like all her books that I've gotten my hands on so far.
But this one is so far and above my favorite I can't even explain!
It reminds me of My Family and Other Animals, that's how wonderful it is.
It has the elusive Coletteness, the unpindownable author's voice, of course.
And the lyrical but taut descriptions of animals and plants that are only approached in my experience by Durrell.
But it has something else I've never found in any other Colette.
We read it for my book group. At first I thought the style was a bit precious, but I gradually warmed to it. It's a series of sketches about Colette's childhood and her family--a disabled father, a bookish but somewhat narcissistic mother, a depressive sister, and a very odd brother. Nevertheless, it seems like a pretty functional family, one you would not expect to produce a "libertine" like Colette. One appealing aspect of the book was the way the sketches, although mainly descriptive, had a kind of narrative arc, sometimes with a surprise ending or startling final aperçu.
Delightful writing about a mostly-endearing family, with very distinctive personalities, in a part of rural Burgundy. Elements of a young girl growing and discovering life. Interesting that, though her father was half-Afro-Caribbean, the influence of that on her childhood are barely mentioned. But the family was not fully in the mainstream of small-town life. I will read more Colette.
Beautifully written vignettes of Colette's mother and her childhood.
Beautifully detailed memoir. Colette is at her best remembering her childhood in the village where she grew up.
Not a fan of short stories but at least there was a tread. Some georgous writing.
Al empezarlo me llevé la sorpresa de que este libro no es una novela, cada capítulo es como un pequeño cuento, pero en realidad son recuerdos, sobre todo de infancia, de la autora.
Al principio me costó ver una conexión entre cada capítulo (con los libros de cuentos siempre me pasa), cuando llevaba cuatro o cinco empecé a situarme en lo que estaba leyendo: Son anécdotas, a veces siguen más o menos un orden cronológico, pero otras veces no tienen nada que ver una con la siguiente.
Several years ago I visited St Sauveur en Puisaye, Colette's childhood home, on the strength of reading this. From reading Judith Thurman's excellent biography, Colette seems have been a flawed person in many respects (like all of us) and, to a certain extent 'Colette' was a fiction that she created that may not have always been true to reality, but I always read her autobiographical work with the sense of resuming a conversation with a old, wise, friend.
Somehow, perhaps because of her extravagant history, I didn't expect Colette to be such a very, very good writer. These little vignettes about her childhood in the country are delightful because her love for her mother, her animals, the nature surrounding her, is so strong and real and so scrupulously and passionately observed. This is the kind of writing that connects you to life rather than providing an escape from it.
I loved this book! It's a collection of memories, musings, and descriptions of the author's childhood home in a small French village. The writing was lovely and made the far off time and place of someone else's life seem immediate and tangible in the way only the best writing does. I have never read anything by Colette before, but I will definitely be seeking out some more of her books. I only wish this one had been longer!
Loved this beautiful memoir told thru child's eye, wonderful evocation of provincial French life, and the enviable love between her parents, told with an economy of words. Strange to realize that Colette's scandalous adult life including her distant relationship with her own daughter was so different from the life she knew in her mother's house.
Each chapter is a story about the author's childhood. As a whole, the book reads as a tender tribute to her mother. It paints a detailed, and sparklingly entertaining picture of life in the French countryside while also highlighting the important strength of women in the countryside. A happy book to read. Tender, enjoyable, and loving.
My first real encounter with Colette, and it was absolutely beautiful. This brought back memories of growing up in the countryside, of finding excitement and curiosity in the smallest details. Something to savour.
Had never read Colette before. Some lovely, simple, timeless mother-daughter stories hidden in lots and lots of imagery and adjectives. Grew tired of trying to find them, and didn't finish the whole book. :)
Reading this one in the bathroom...when I'm not reading something for school...have been reading for the last few months, I think its going to take me a few more to finish. Each story in the book is like a little gem, so its nice to take it slow.
This book is a reminder of the beauty of a life well-lived and nurtured by nature. This is a deceptively simple collection of Colette's musings about her mother and the rest of her family in their country estate.
Oh, I loved reading about Colette's mother. The richness of her life and her love for her daughter. It's been decades since I read it, but it was wonderful. Was some of it fictional, pehaps. I can't recall. But what a delicious book.
A writer's writer. The language is divine, and I quote from these stories all the time.
Finished this book because it was one off my own shelf and because I'd started it for a Reading Challenge. It was good enough to keep reading…… only just.
