https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5287473-hex-hall
I so wanted to be a witch.Perhaps that is why I loved this book so much, or maybe it's because Hex Hall is a laugh-out-load, fast paced and easy read.
Ask me why I don't like something, I can write you a list a mile long, but describe why I like it....
She's caring, open-minded, a good friend, and she might be a little gullible at times, but that is what makes her so great.
I'm sure it will leave you craving the next novel as much as I am.Then again it was probably the writing.
“Crap.”Titter.Yes, sometimes Sophie’s sass and smart-arse comments bordered on a bit much… but if she toned that down just a tad, I imagine we’d be best friends forever and sit up all night eating delicious snacks and chortling over her being a witch and having sexy men fawning over her and how it was so cute that I was completely ordinary and stuck with the bad dog in cargo shorts and his excessive slobber.OH, HOW WE WOULD CHORTLE.Love Interest.Well, in the beginning I could take Archer or leave him.
(That’s right, FUN TOWN) And it was really refreshing to just sit back and take in the view.Although… I gather the sequel is going to be a lot darker.And that’s just fine by me.Recommended For.People who want to book a one-way ticket to FUN TOWN.
It took several tries to get past the first couple of chapters, but once Sophie finally gets settled in at Hex Hall things start moving along.
The witchy battles are pretty cool, there's good build-up of the mystique behind the school and behind Sophie's past and powers, and the author does a nice job with creating a variety of different characters with distinctive voices.
It's always a plus when a YA author manages to surprise her audience with twists and turns in the plot too, and there are a couple of really good ones here that will leave readers on the edge for more.Besides...you can't not love a girl who tries to stop an attacking werewolf by yelling, "BAD DOG!"
As to date, this has been one of the most enjoyable fantasy books I’ve read that deals with otherworldly creatures like witches, vampires, faes, werewolves, shape-shifters and demons (collectively called as Prodigium) through the author’s creative effort of putting them all together in one monster high called Hecate Hall or simply Hex Hall.
It’s a fast, fun read told by Sophie, a supposedly powerful witch who at 16 barely knows anything about her real powers.
“'I'm experiencing some teenage angst…I need to, like, write in my journal or something."  The events are fast-paced and very interesting.
Young adult fantasy and urban fantasy seems to have been constantly churning out more of the same, but Hex Hall really ticked all the right boxes for me.Granted, a boarding school for witches and whatnot isn't exactly original and it's a hard field to compete in when you're up against the likes of J.K.Rowling, but I liked Hawkins' laid back and kind of chick-lit style writing.
The novel reminded me of something in between Vampire Academy and this TV show that I used to love when I was a kid called 'The Worst Witch', maybe I'm wrong but I'd be willing to bet that not many people outside of the UK have heard of it.
Yes, you heard me right: another young adult novel with another hot but dangerous male love interest...
It's been years since I read Hex Hall for the first time and for some reason I got a strong feeling that I need to re-read this one.
After six years.
So, here I'm and this time in English.The main character is 16 which is a little younger than books I usually read right now.
But honestly?
I did not care at all!
Sophie is so damn hilarious.
I love that girl!
(view spoiler)[But I need to take one star down for the instacrush/instalove.
(hide spoiler)]I thankfully did not remember much about the book, except for the fact that I'm Team Archer!
"Archer is smart and funny in addition to being hot. Elodie [his girlfriend] is stupid and dull." The second, the second, I read that line, I logged into Goodreads to check which year it was published. 2010. Also known as YA's embarrassing puberty years. I tend to stay away from books published during that time since they're filled with unhealthy romantic relationships and girl-on-girl hate. YA now is like college you, all grown-up and cringing at the occasional photo of your tween self that po
(view spoiler)[Elodie turns out to be a power-hungry bitch after all.
(hide spoiler)]In the acknowledgements, it surprisingly states Hex Hall is mostly about the power of women.
In Hex Hall, it's Sophie and Jenna against the witches' coven who are obsessed with power and their looks.I'm sure you're all tired of me banging on about feminism, but it's something I unconsciously look for when I read.
If a book is awesome enough, I can overlook certain aspects, like Six of Crows's arguably archetypal ending (view spoiler)[of a hero needing to rescue his girl.
(hide spoiler)]Hex Hall just fails on all fronts.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I really liked Archer but I wasn't very drawn into the plot or the main character. The author has a fun, fast-paced writing style that is easy to follow and plenty of humor to go around, but I was not a fan of the cliff-hanger ending for a first book in a series. I will get around to the sequel at some point but this is one of my more light-hearted fantasy reads. I think it would have been a hit for my middle school self:)
I've seen the same story time and time again in books like Secret Lives,Evernight,Firespell, and it is just boring me.1)misfit teen sent to boarding school2)she doesn't want to be there3)gets on wrong side of popular bitches on day one4)instant crush on sexiest guy at school5)her only friend is a fellow misfit6)grim teachers7)obnoxious students8)murderer on the looseThe characters are either obnoxious muppets or cardboard cut-outs that have no depth or interest to them.
As usual in these books, the kids do what the hell they like with the teachers ignoring them, which defeats the whole purpose of the school in my opinion.
HEX HALL is an insanely fun, hilarious, and HOT book!
I can't even tell you how many times I laughed out loud (or had to put the book down because I was laughing so hard)!
Sophie Mercer is now officially one of my favorite heroines and I just might be a little bit in love with Archer Cross, too.
:) I can't say enough wonderful things about this book, only that you need to pick it up ASAP when it debuts next March.
I'm only sad that I have to wait so long to read the next book in the series!!
Actual Rating: 3.5 starsIt took me a while to start reading this book.
Firstly, how can she be that dumb to show her magic to others like nothing?
Who she doesn't even know that well and is like "let me be your fairy godmother.
I really liked that we have a book that finally portraits that having a gay girl friend doesn't means she will be different, or that she won't like pink or be feminine or even that she will like you.
We also get the hate-love plot as a bonus and things happens...And FINALLY, at the end of second half, the book starts for me.
The main character was witty and any reader would be able to relate to them since she had boy, friend, family and identity problems.
This book occasionally reminded me of Harry Potter because of some of the teachers being both harsh and grandmotherly at times.
Rachel Hawkins also captured the rea high school life and drama in this with their own version of Prom, cliques, relationships, and talking about teachers behind their backs.
The ending was sad somewhat but you are going to have to read to find out what it is :) Overall this book is good if you are looking for:a good introduction to a seriessuspensefantasyromanceand great characters.
I loved this simple book so much because it's funny and has magic with a cool magic school setting which I enjoyed a lot!Sophie is one of the most funny characters I read about.
I mean, only Gwendolyn from Rubinrot is funnier than her.I loved a lot Archer Cross and (view spoiler)[I don't think he wanted to hurt anyone, so I'm expecting his appearance in the next book.
(hide spoiler)] I can't wait for it!I will not have a crush on Archer Cross, I will not have a crush on Archer Cross, I will not...[...] "Mm-hmm," Jenna agreed.
"Anything else?""I have a crush on Archer Cross."Jenna laughed.
For instance, her characters were so perfect.
She was a giving caring character who was also definitely selfish and she second guessed herself and others all the time, all the while giving chances to the underdog.
She is in reality a well rounded character that I could see existing in the world and that's so rare.Besides the supernatural beings, this was a very realistic book.
They go to classes, they sometimes suck at classes, she got detention, there was a cute boy with a girlfriend who happened to be the mean girl.
It was basically the supernatural version of mean girls if they had been at a boarding school and I loved it.
My main impression from the book is that it's meant for the very bottom of the age spectrum it's being marketed for.
Of course, there's a lot of dead teenagers flying around so it's a weird mix of older, more mature themes and fairly immature writing.
There wasn't a lot of depth here despite being charming in a general kind of way.
The book tosses a lot of cliches in a blender and while you're perfectly aware you're being served every paranormal plot device ever it still goes down smoothly enough.
I'm giving my copy to the teenage girl who lives next door.
Harry Potter : Magic Castle.
Courses to learn spells.
Very powerful headmaster.
Special relationship between headmaster and one student.
Said student appears to be the Chosen One. Humble, but still very gifted.Anna and the French Kiss : Boarding school.
On her first day, meets lesbian roommate and hottest boy in school.
Then meets Queen Bee and is bullied.
Doesn't talk to Dad but likes Mom okay.
Earns detention, and ends up with hottest boy.Vampire Academy: Magic castle.
Vampires.
Courses to learn how to fight.
Doesn't know Dad. Learns that he is the Evil incarnate.Sounds familiar?
Sometimes the result of those distractions is a complete crap gif-filled mess instead of a review.Sophie was just trying to cast a love spell that would make the quarterback ditch his cheer captain date and take the most unpopular girl at school from zero to hero.
Rather than joining a clique of bitches witches, Sophie befriends her roommate Jenna – a vampire who is believed to have killed a former student.
You’re welcome.)The story gets a little convoluted as it jumps from mystery solving to every day teenage witch activity (complete with some broomstick riding
I would like to thank Ate AJ and Ate Rachel for recommending this book to me.
(Click their names to read their reviews) This paranormal fantasy novel is fun, quick and entertaining  to read.
When a spell gone bad, a young witch Sophie Mercer was sent to Hecate Hall (Hex Hall) as a punishment of exposing herself to humans.
Students consists of young Prodigium or supernatural creatures like vampires, werewolves, fairies, witches etc.
Sophie Mercer is such a fascinating character.
Now, that is one good twist!" What a great surprise.Overall, I really like this book.
If you are looking for a light fantasy novel, give this one a try.
Very cute book, I enjoyed it!
Докато официално си казах "Искам я пък" и си я взех, макар и 2ра ръка от момиче, което я продаваше в olx.bg.
И така книжката стана моя - лошото на копието, което имах беше, че липсваха 20 страници - а после имаше и още няколко еднакво принтирани.
Все едно де - много ми хареса пък.
Всички, които твърдят, че е супер посредствена, напълно грешат.
Да, няма някакъв велик замисъл в книгата; да, героите не са описани велико - ама пък на мен си ми хареса.
Много си падам по книги за вещици или хора със суперсили!
Супер бързо я прочетох и даже почвам следващата!
Meh-meh. I really think that a bEarding-school story would have been far more orginal than this "followed-all-baking-instructions-for-paranomal-young-adult" boarding-school girly-girl, let's-kiss-the-presumably-hot-and-bad-but-taken warlock, "three-mean-girls-shall-you-be" witchy-washy is.Please pat me on my back! Finishing this with only skipping half a page now and then took almost all my witch-power for today.
"BAD DOG!" (What? It's iconic...)This was one of the first books that I added to my TBR pile, right after taking recommendations from Booktube and I was really excited to start reading it (even tho I had postpone for years.... \_(ツ)_/ ).It isn't really what I had expect but that doesn't mean that I enjoyed it any less, just that the hype for this book was too high.When I finally got a chance to pick it up, it took me only a few hours to finish the entire book in one sitting.It is really fast pac
When Sophie was born she thought it would be better if he wasn't involve in her life, so everything that Sophie knows about her powers are the things that her mom read about in houndreds of magic books and from discovering some thing by herself.This did seem to work until one day she went to far and was forced to enroll into Hex Hall, an academy for supernatural missfits.
**3.5 stars**When my husband asked me what I was reading today, I summed this book up to him as, "Harry Potter chick lit".
"Hex Hall" is a really adorable and spunky YA paranormal read.
I was shocked at how much fun I had reading this book.
Sophie was an awesome MC.
She was funny (I surprised myself by laughing out loud at some of the phrases Sophie dishes out), accepting, and not clichéd (bonus points for that one!).
What kept this book from being a great read was that it was a bit too slow for my tastes.
Sophie, inoltre, è una protagonista simpatica, irriverente e cinica, insomma è una vera badass!
E, grazie al cielo, la situazione sentimentale della nostra briosa protagonista, non scivola come al solito nell’amaro cliché dell’amore a prima vista, no, è un innamoramento più naturale con tanto di mega colpo di scena finale (e adesso???).
Certo questo non ha salvato la Hawkins da qualche piccolo scivolone… ma per essere il primo di una serie certi “errori” ci stanno tutti.
THIS BOOK WAS SO MUCH FUN!The characters were all awesome, the setting was great, and the plot was exciting!I really enjoyed the main character, she was witty and snarky.VIDEO REVIEW UP SOON :)
Actual Rating: 1.5 starsUnoriginalI have already read this story a thousand times over.
So freaking cute and hilarious!Rachel Hawkins is a queen, when it comes to these terms!
I've read Rebel Belle this year, fell in love and now it is one of my absolute favourites of this year.
So, normally I had to read something else by this amazing author.
I'm so dumb.I loved Hex Hall!
I just adored her wit and her sassiness!I can't wait to continue with this series, especially after this cruel ending.
Seriously, what is it with authors and their nasty endings?
:D STOP IT.
:P Okay I lied, don't stop.
I love being tortured!
I love a book that can make me laugh. Although I am not feeling the Team Archer vibe after this book I will say that as far as romance this series has potential. The characters are all entertaining and keep you guessing. Best "witch" book I've read in awhile.
GUESS WHO'S IN THE MOOD FOR REREADING OLD YA FANTASY BOOKS \_(ツ)_/Someone stop me I have an exam tomorrow.
GUESS WHO'S IN THE MOOD FOR REREADING OLD YA FANTASY BOOKS ¯\_(ツ)_/¯Someone stop me I have an exam tomorrow.
