https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12335.Savage_Beauty
You can thank me later.I've decided that I like Edna St. Vincent Millay more as a person than as a poet.
She gained popularity for her writing, and her personal life was secondary (sorta).Nancy Milford does a great job here of researching Vincent's life, primarily through talking with Vincent's sister, Norma, who passed away in 1986.
These experiences are also detailed in Daniel Epstein's What Lips My Lips Have Kissed: The Loves and Love Poems of Edna St. Vincent Millay, but are also written about in great detail in Milford's biography.Here's the main thing I've learned about Vincent - she was a dependent and co-dependent person.
More poetry.
And way more salaciousness.
Alas, Nancy Milford is a patient professional who carefully presents well-documented facts with little innuendo.The story of Edna is beyond fascinating.
This sort-of homely girl from Maine uses her mind and ability to pierce through people's facades to seduce her way through life.
But there's so much more to the story.
Through her poetry, we see how she eventually tames this sharp pastoral ardor into sometimes subtly bold plays and poems and other writings that touch upon the here and now of her time.And then there is her mother, her sisters, her friendships, her dalliances, her addictions, sadness, her savage fiery-red beauty.
I'm biased because Edna St. Vincent Millay is my absolute favorite poet. So learning more about her was very interesting to me.The book itself is incredibly well researched, really delving into the wild life of this amazing women.She's not really someone you can idolize or look up to, but she is someone you can fall in love with, and that shines through beautifully in this biography.I will warn that it is a bit heavy, and getting through the entire thing does involve a little slogging, but for someone truly interested in the subject matter it is 100% worth it.
While I enjoyed Milford's treatment of the early life of this poet, by the time Edna was living in Greeenwich village, I had had enough of her.It was a real chore to get through the middle third of this book.
I was left instead with the impression of a childish, insecure, munchausen case who barely had the will to get out of bed in the morning.I began this book with a great deal of enthusiasm and anticipation.
I remembered how much I enjoyed Millay's poetry as a teenager.
After reading this biography, I feel pity for her.
Milford remains remarkably true to her sources - a vast treasure trove of at-that-point-unseen letters, journals, notebooks, unfinished works, and more from Edna St. Vincent Millay's estate.
Yet Milford allows Vincent's literary triumphs, her frank eroticism, her late-in-life petulance, addiction, and downward spiral to unfold quietly, without a hint of sensationalism.
Savage Beauty almost reads in real-time; that is, she revels in the details of Vincent's fantastic life in a way that makes you feel like you are watching it via hidden camera.
Vincent's life seemed a perfect entry point onto these fascinating processes, but Milford declined to allow it to be so.
In fact, the entire description of Edna's life called out for psychological interpretation at nearly every turn.
Although I never felt that I really liked any of the characters, I found them to be realistic and fascinating as well as products of their particularly interesting time period.
My only critique of this book is that I thought the author was often too present in the book - she appears as a character and her own interpretations of the personalities are repeatedly reiterated throughout the book.
Despite the, at times, heavy-handed writing, this was a compelling biography of a fascinating woman.
I haven't read a lot of biographies of writers, but this year I read two, and I think I've figured out what the biggest challenge is in documenting the life of a creative person: Most of them don't leave behind much writing about their creative process.
This is all well and good--after all, I think most people who read biographies are looking for this sort of detail about the subject's life, and, when it comes to creative process, are content to let the work speak for itself.
Every draft of every letter, every journal entry, every working copy of every poem, every telegram, every photograph; the only things Norma seems to have held out of Milford's reach are a stack of nude photos.
Nancy even moved into Steepletop, the house Edna and her husband shared, while working on the book, piecing together Edna's life and napping on the living room couch, taking down Norma's injections of commentary, sometimes with a grain of salt, sometimes with a pound of it.
Even so, I can only hope that my own life and work will warrant a biographer as deft and searing as Nancy Milford.
Thomas Hardy once said that there were only two good things about America--the skyscraper and the poetry of Edna St Vincent Millay.
I'm not usually a fan of sonnets, but, man, does she write some beautiful, bittersweet ones.Here is the one that prompted me to pick up this book:Time Does Not Bring ReliefTime does not bring relief; you all have liedwho told me that time would ease me of my pain!I miss him in the weeping of the rain;I want him in the shrinking of the tide;the old snows melt from every mountainside;and last year's leaves are smoke in every lane;But last year's bitter loving must remainheaped in my heart, and old thoughts abide.There are a hundred places where I fearto go--so with his memory they brim.And entering with relief some quiet placewhere never fell his boot or shone his faceI say "There is no memory of him here."And so stand stricken, so remembering him.Good stuff.
So far, amazing.
The meeting of historical significance with personal seals the depth of the story.Edna St. Vincent Millay- known as Vincent to friends and family- was born at the tail end of the 1800's and grew up primarily with her two sisters, Norma and Kathleen, ( Kathleen having a small side story throughout, as the sister who wrote and published but resented her lack of status next to her more famous sibling, eventually dying of alcoholism after fierce descent including hospitalization, divorce and financial ruin )and her mother, Cora.
She led a very dramatic and alluring life, and as usually goes, it ended sadly and more quickly than it should've.I've read some reviews complaining about how much the book focuses on her lovers, but I think each is very telling about Millay, particularly Ferdinand Earle, Arthur Ficke, Edmund Wilson and, of course, Eugen Boissevain.
I ended up breezing through reading about the "juicy" parts out of curiosity for what it was that thrust her into domestic life.What he did was mother her - which made sense, considering Millay's relationship with her mother.
Although I feel that there are some faults in Milford's biography, seeing the poetry against the background of a life, often troubled but always adventurous, added a new dimension to my understanding.Millay spoke for a new generation of women, those of the Jazz Age that were stepping across boundaries and breaking into new territory.
The relationship between the four women affected much of "Vincent's" life, with turmoil between herself and a difficult younger sister who felt overshadowed by Vincent's talent.
The biography is well worth reading for the facts presented and the excerpts from Millay's journals and less accessible writing beyond her poetry.
There was so little social/historical context until ESVM marched in protest for Sacco and Vanzetti- so little sense that the poet was aware of and engaged in a world beyond what gave her immediate pleasure.
Her poetry seems so old-fashioned for her time- 19th century wind swirling through dark English moors kind of stuff.
Yet, after reading this bio, I have little desire to explore her poetry.
If Milford's portrayal is an accurate one, the poet is a creature I find repulsive- so needy, manipulative, little deserving of sympathy.
----------------------------------------------------------------------PCC-Chicks Book club read for March.
I devoured this book and it broke my heart. Three sisters. All so clearly close. And what talent this poet had. The third woman to win the Pulitzer for Poetry. And it also rather bothers me that so few people even know her name among my contemporaries. Read this biography, please!
Wish I could give 4.5 stars. Fantastic biography -- fascinating and exhaustively documented from beginning to end. Much of that is due to the fact that Edna St. Vincent Millay lived such a *life* and had such entirely engrossing relationships while composing her classic poetry. The book jacket reviewers call her life both "inspiring and cautionary" and ... yeah. There's a hell of a lot of caution in there as well. But you can certainly say that Ms. Millay never shrunk from living. Great book.
So I looked around for a good biography to read and found Savage Beauty: The Life of Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Also the author lacked a certain sympathy with her subject that would have allowed her to discuss some of the more sensitive parts of Vincent’s life without coming across as gossiping, judgmental and exploitative.
She also allowed her personal hostility towards Norma Millay, Vincent’s sister and her source for much of the book, to be painfully obvious in the text.
I would love to read another, better biography of Edna St. Vincent Millay.
Milford's critical biography of Millay is a masterpiece: detailed, meticulous, and stark. Vastly more textured than Epstein's biography (which I also enjoyed, but for different reasons), with the weight of Millay's personal papers and correspondence adding an almost uncomfortable level of intimacy. If Milford wrote a second book about the process of writing this book (including detailed descriptions of ALL her interactions with Norma Millay at Steepletop), I would read that as well.
The thing about biographies is that I float around the house for days, pretending to be the dowdy best friend of the subject. Or alternatively the glamorous best friend, if my biofeedback is in alignment. And I floated on this one for WEEKS. Just a great combination of interesting circumstances, genius, weird personalities and all things fabulous. And a darn good poet.
I was working for Virginia Hamilton Adair when I read this book. I was telling her about it, and said that Edna's mother had to work all the time, and they didn't have money, but she made sure they were surrounded by poetry."Poultry ?" says Virginia, "Why would they want to be surrounded by poultry?"What a good laugh we had over that.
It is astonishing how much research went into this biography.
I feel like I knew Edna St. Vincent Millay.
I love reading about the various artists in this time period of the Jazz Age. There is an amazing amount of detail gathered about her life, family, friends, and ambitions.
In addition, it was a lookinto the story and meaning behind much of her poetry.
In it's thoroughness, the book is quite long.
In being a biography, and not a memoir as I often prefer, it can be an intense read.
I can't imagine I could learn anything more by reading another book.
I loved this biography so much, still thinking about it a lot a month after reading it.
I'd read a few Millay poems but knew nothing about her -- so this book read almost like a fictional story where I was like, WHATS GOING TO HAPPEN TO EDNA?!?
Except it was her actual life.
Brings up a lot of interesting themes -- sister/mother dynamics, ambition, selfishness/freedom vs.
restlessness/expat life.
I feel like Millay really squeezed the juice out of her life, for better and for worse.
Also such an interesting time period, she lived 1852-1950.
A stellar, stunning work, prodigious and relentlessly, empathetically researched, and both a thrilling and depressing read. This is the second biography of a memorable woman writer I've read this year (the Shirley Jackson bio was the first)--and both are chastening in their depiction of how private pain, and the difficulties of being a great woman writer in this society, take a terrible toll in the end.
Mentioned in Zelda: A Biography by Nancy Milford - 1/22/2018
Even though this took me forever to read, it was lovely.
Nancy Milford does an incredible job of weaving the story of Edna St Vincent Millay’s life - almost making it feel like fiction.
But of course, that is also because the life lived by Millay was so unusual and extraordinary, casting off social norms, capturing the hearts of men and women alike, writing beautiful poetry, and then spiraling down into tragedy.
She truly lived the life of her most well-known poem: my candle burns at both ends; it will not last the night.
But ah my foes, and oh my friends, it gives a lovely light!
A poorly written biography will map out a person's life as a story.
I think that Nancy Milford did a wonderful job in not over-narrating her biography of Millay.
I mean there is a certain closeness to the subject, the biography is spliced with anecdotes Milford's dealing with Norma Millay, but there is no one track that the biography takes.
I don't mean to say that the biography is perfect, that it is the authoritative text on Millay's life.
What we have here is not Millay's life, but a well drawn out sketch of it.
Milford’s biography makes it clear that the candle that Millay burned did not always give a “lovely light.” She fueled that life with love affairs with men and women, alcohol, and drugs, yet somehow managed a dedication to her writing that eclipsed all other commitments.
Milford observes that durng World War I “One would hardly know, from her letters, that there was a war in Europe or that women were marching for suffrage in New York.” Yet she developed over time.
During World War II she produced poems, first anti-war, then anti-Nazi, passionately urging U.S. involvement.
This is the second time I've picked this up and begun reading only to become intimidated by the subject and lay it aside.
In this particular case, the biographer is careful to draw parallels down through three generations, ending with Edna Vincent Millay.
She enmeshes the reader in the life of the family and thus draws you into the story.Both dense and fascinating, Millay's story moves quickly, thanks in part to Ms. Mitford's generous section breaks and inclusion of several poems.
Her prose is filled with the dense imagery of poetry and exigesis, so this is appreciated and gives the reader time to absorb the information.
I'm not huge on biographies, and I didn't have an especial interest in Millay either, so this was a somewhat unusual choice for me to pick up.
Millay's story, of course, is fascinating in itself, and Milford's work with that raw material was just outstanding--so incredibly readable and engaging.
I especially loved her first-person accounts of the eerie conversations she had with Millay's sister Norma.
This book for sure brought out a new interest in Edna St. Vincent Millay, and I'll also be on the lookout for the next thing by Nancy Milford (although that may be a long wait--30 years passed between her last book, on Zelda Fitzgerald, and this one--bummer).
Be forewarned, Milford is sexist and heterosexist to an educated modern reader and paternalistic towards her subjects.
Furthermore, she seems to be listing what Millay does instead of telling/narrating it.Biography is the art of making data into a story so the reader can feel they knew the person whose life is told; Milford does not accomplish this.
That said, Millay herself is such an interesting person and her poems (quoted abundantly) are sometimes so good, there is something to be taken from this book.
I was also bothered by the unexplained shift from 'Vincent' to 'Edna' to refer to the subject.
