https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/279305.I_Just_Forgot
* * * Read & Reviewed with my niece Emma * * *A nice story about a furry little kid admitting and denying things he did and/or didn't forget to do.
They're just about things that happen to a youngster about five or six years old.
Mayer does a good job balancing light fun with a bit of seriousness.
Teachable moments are plentiful, but there's always a light-hearted scene around the corner to keep the balance.Emma, who is almost seven, enjoyed the furry kid's foibles from the lofty position of being at least a solid year older and wiser than the character.
I left themon because I was going right back outside."Not every sequence is as adorable as this, and sometimes I was a little annoyed that the child looked rather angry with its mom for questioning him.
But, all in all it's really rather sweet and a cute view into how a child might forget to look at "the big picture."Plus, the illustrations are so fun and unique!
Isabella decided she would like to write some reviews on her whiteboard and I would type them for her. Here is the first one in Izzy's exact written words: The book was so good becos I am like him becos I furget all the time like him. He says he will clen his toys up but he furgets. And he is always saying he will do sumthing and furgets abot everything.
Sometimes LC remembers and sometimes he forgets...But he never forgets a bedtime story or kiss.
In I Just Forgot, we see that Little Critter is hit or miss when it comes to chores and other aspects of his daily routine, but he loves his family, and wants to be a good boy.
There's no shortage of responsibilities for Little Critter around the house, even at his age.
Little Critter accepts each of his mistakes differently, sometimes meekly but other times with minor backtalk, and his parents' reactions to his occasional forgetfulness vary in the same way.
There's a lot to remember for a kid Little Critter's age, as he grows into taking responsibility for his actions.
This is a delightful story about an anthropomorphized animal (rabbit?) who goes through his day and forgets many things to the ire of his mother and father.
He forgets to make his bed; he forgets to put away the milk; he forgets to turn off the bath tub.
But he never forgets to have his mother read him a story before bed!
I've read this story with first graders and it builds great vocabulary (forgot, remembered) and helps them learn how to break down difficult words into chunks.
The pictures also strongly support the text and extend the meaning based on how the parents react.
Another Mercer Mayer book that all my kids enjoyed. My 5 yr old just adores Mayer and requests her books constantly. I read them at the breakfast or lunch table and even my 3 yr old twins get into them. We love trying to find the mouse and spider that seems to follow the main character around, they’re always doing silly things. Fun engaging themes that any child can relate to, a great addition to any children's library.
Jackson has been reading to me all Little Critter books we can find. I am not going to rate them all, but this one is my favorite. Overall, they all get 5 stars - funny books with great pictures. Not sure why I didn't use these with my other kids, but Jackson LOVES them.
What a great kiddos book - teaching them the concepts they need to be successful in school and life. This book helps emphasize the importance of being truthful and responsible. These are basic lessons a kid should learn early on, so what a great way to incorporate this into their life.
A Little Critter book that shows Little Critter's forgetfulness. Little Critter either genuinely forgot things or just didn't bother to do what needed to be done. This is a series where parents will have to explain why the characters and their behavior shouldn't be imitated a lot of the time.
GRL: GDRA: 12
I’ve never related to a book so much in my entire life.
This one just made me laugh the whole way through! I want to read the other books by this author. I like searching for the spider and mouse on every. single. page.
Another critter book I’m not a fan off. The illustrations are ok but I don’t like the story. Not easy or fun to follow.
Throughout the book, little critter remembers some things, but is forgetful when it comes to other things.
However, little critter always remembers to have his mother read him a bedtime story and a goodnight kiss.I think that this book is cute because I like the illustrations and I just like the characters in this story.
This book would probably be best for younger children because it has the ability to teach them small things to remember to do in their lives that they could easily forget at times.
Genre:Modern Fantasy Grade:prek-kVery funny and adorable this little critter just keeps forgetting a lot of things and it makes me die laughing. He is so freaking adorable. The things he forgets are cute and the ending is the best thing about this book besides the puppy getting to the newspaper first. :)
I can appreciate Mercer Mayer for writing this book about how hard it is to remember everything.
It's a good thing the little critter in this book remembers what is most important;family.
That is all that really matters.About the Author:Mercer Mayer is an American children's book writer and illustrator born in Arkansas.
Mayer moved New York City in 1964, where he met an art director who told Mayer that his portfolio was so bad that he needed to throw it away.
Though he was offended, he did throw it away and created a completely new portfolio.
This whole series is a very good series for children to read.
They have good lessons and it is fun because there is a mouse on every page.
The lesson in this book is that sometimes people are going to forget things but the book shows that forgetting things can carry consequences as well.
This book is mostly a good book for parents to read with their children at home rather than a book to share in a classroom.
The last page in the book is the mother reading with the child, which makes for a good ending for a parent child experience at the end of the night.
All throughout the story, the boy keeps forgetting everything like turning the bath water off and putting away his toys.
I liked this story because it is very realistic with children these days, especially our own students.
But like us teachers, at the end of the story, he does not forget how much his mom loves him.
This is a very important concept for children to remember, that they are human, are very capable of making mistakes-but we will always love them unconditionally.
I would teach and use this story with my students when teaching them of strategies to help them remember important concepts and information.
We have a lot of Little Critter books in this house.
They're short, they're funny, they're topical, and they're cheap.
This book is a very realistic portrayal of how children remember things, or forget things...
or remember what they should do but decide not to do it anyway :)Like, Little Critter forgets to feed the dog, but not the fish - the fish just didn't look hungry!
He won't forget to put away his toys - oops, maybe he *did* forget.Pretty funny stuff, if my nieces are any indication.
When I was little I loved Little Critter books, and this one I remember especially well.
I love that with these books you usually don't get the whole story unless you pay attention to the pictures.
I remember my mom pointing out that when he didn't forget to water the plants, but just thought "they didn't look thirsty" the plants in the picture were wilting and definitely did look thirsty now.
I also always loved looking for the little mouse or the spider and cricket on every page.
There are a few children's books that I loved enough as a kid that I am planning on finding copies for my children, and this is one of them.
Mercer Mayer's "Little Critter" series has always been an influential part of my life. This series of books, of which I still own a massive collection, were the first books I read as a child, and planted in me a desire to write children's literature myself. This specific title, "I Just Forgot," highlights the very innocent everyday goofs a child makes, and does so in hilarious fashion. I recommend these books to anybody with children of their own, or to those who just so happen to enjoy easily and quickly read children's books.
I love the Adventures of Little Critter. Although the main character has no name other than Little Critter. He is sometimes referred to as Big Brother and other characters similarly are referred to as simply Mother, Little Sister, and Dad. Once the character reaches a classroom setting other characters are given names. Yet Little Critter remains Little Critter. This Picturebook is great. The images are very organic. There is even a hidden character in each page that children can try to find. Sometimes it is a pet mouse or a pet cricket. My son loves this aspect of the book.
This little critter book is part of a series of picture books about the little critters and their adventures. I just forgot tells the story of a little critter who keeps forgetting to do his chores and the consequences of not doing them. Its a cute book to talk to children about doing their chores and being responsible. The little critter books are a very creative series that addresses issues faced by children.
Little Critter books are cute and great for young readers. "I Just Forgot" is my favorite critter book. I had my mum would read it to me all the time. This book teaches children that it is okay to forget sometimes. It also shows that your mom will always love you. Sometimes with all the fun things children do in life they forget the simple stuff. Sometimes the simple stuff is important and you can get in trouble for forgetting them.
The first picture of the Little Critter in this book made me burst into laughter! His shrug and dumbfounded look seemed very familiar to me. Sometimes we forget, ok, give us a break! Sometimes we intentionally leave the refridgerator door open. It happens. The great thing about Mercer Mayer is he writes about very relatable subjects, combines them with simple language and amusing pictures to create a classic, funny story for people of all ages.
This book is a blast from the past. As a child I had several of these books and I loved them all. It may be a bias but I rated this book 5 stars. Mainly because children love talking animals. This is why several fantasy books have talking animals. This is a family of animals living as we do. Helping kids to identify to this animal. I would recommend this book to any teacher and parent. I think it is fun and teaches kids to be responsible.
“I Just Forgot", is a funny story about a critter who forgets to do a lot of things. He remembers to brush his teeth but forgets to make his bed. He remembers to get to the school bus on time, but forgets his lunchbox. This is a great story because children can relate to it since it’s real life situations. I would use this book to show students an example of a text to self-connection.
This book reminds me of my brother! "Sometimes I remember, sometimes I just forget." an example would be when the little critter puts dishes in the sink but forgets to put the milk away. I think children will like to read this story because Im sure that many of them will be able to relate. This books overall message is that it is okay to forget, because every child forgets sometimes.
A problem all children face one time or another during their lives. This story tells about the little critter and how his forgetfulness gets him in trouble one hard day that his Mother has. This Children's picture book is a classic book in which children can all face their problems and grow from them.
