https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/342445.The_Dark_Tower
It's simply personal preference and not a reflection on my feelings towards the man or his fans.But.Like every other asshole out there who doesn't bother reading a book until the movie comes out, I saw this trailer and suddenly got interested.Yes. I'm 
I'm not 100% about this, but I think if you're planning to read the books, then this thing will spoil some of the plot twists for you, and you may want to wait and read the comics last.Alright.
Dark Tower graphic novels?
Yes please!This is the very first volume and it is a collection of seven issues telling the same story as in Wizard and Glass (4th book of The Dark Tower series).
That part of the Gunslinger story lends itself very well to the graphic novel format.
The whole thing lends itself to this format, book four is just a very good place to start.I am very impressed with the adaptation of a 500+ page novel into a 150 to 200 page graphic novel.
Each panel focuses on what is closest to the reader, leaving the background up for interpretation.King and graphic novel fans alike should check this out!
9/22/17 - (ALL TEN VOLUMES are currently) ON SALE for $1.80 - $2.20 each:                    Do you understand how cheap that is for a graphic novel? Go! Get them ALL! Now!Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsEven though one of my few legitimate phobias is anything Stephen King-related (I read one of his short story collections when I was far too young and have been unable to sleep in a room with an open door ever since #truestory), all the hype surrounding  The Dark Tower  movie, made me curious . . . Of al
BUT.What does Stephen King fantasy look like?
We're bffs.And FYI, Stephen King curiosity + new(ish)found love of graphic novels = duh.I figured it would be safer.
I'm just giving the gist, so I'd consider it safe--I'm not going to tell you anything that I wouldn't want to know.
more complicated.Were parts of it gross in the way I imagine all things Stephen King to be?Yes.Were parts graphically violent?Yes?But in a manner most unsurprising (if you know me), I sped through those parts, not looking too closely at the images, and overall, I have to say this was an excellent compromise.
I absolutely adored this graphic novel. The artwork was STUNNING!It seems that the graphic novels tell the story quite differently than the books do. Having just listened to most of The Dark Tower: Wizard and Glass, the story of Susan Delgado and Rhea of Coos is still fresh in my mind. Their stories are told here, in Volume 1 of the GN series.I can't wait to read the next one!You can get your beautifully illustrated copy here:             Dark Tower: The Gunslinger Born All Hail the Crimson King!
To prequel της ιστορίας του Μαύρου Πύργου, όπου μας διηγείται τα νεανικά χρόνια του Ρόλαντ και πώς ξεκίνησαν όλα. Εν όψει μάλιστα και της τηλεοπτικής σειράς που αναμένουμε το καλοκαίρι (με Idris Elba και Matthew McConaughey) καλό είναι να το φρεσκάρουμε λίγο!Οι φαν του Μαύρου Πύργου θα το λατρέψουν (εγώ ομολογώ ότι δεν τρελαίνομαι), αλλά το σκίτσο είναι εντυπωσιακό, η ιστορία περιγράφεται στο ίδιο ακριβώς στυλ με τα βιβλία, ενώ στα μπόνους έχουμε περιλήψεις, σημειώσεις από τους συντελεστές και πολλές εκδοχές σκίτσων. Καλή και προσεγμένη η ελληνική έκδοση!
There is a flashback recall of Roland's mother's treachery and the current villain of the tale but the real focus is upon Roland and his ka tet going undercover to the town of Hambry where they discover that Hambry and some other bad people are trying to utilize weapons of the Great Old Ones (think tanks and other high tech things versus cowboys).
What follows is the ka tet trying to escape with their lives as the antagonists know they know and come after them.CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus to A minus; STORY/PLOTTING: B plus; ARTWORK: A minus; SETTING/TONE: B to B plus; OVERALL GRADE: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ: mid May 2012.
This is truly a work of art.
Gorgeous paintings accompany a wonderfully written story.
This acts as a prequel to the Dark Tower novels, since Roland is only 14.
The story then follows Roland and his Ka-Tet as they undertake a mission against Farson's troops.
Truly a gorgeous series.
This issue has the Gunslinger Born story and an extra section giving a cool history on how Arthur fell to the Crimson Queen, and how Maerlyn's magic crystal balls were created-but most of all I appreciated how it explains the Crimson King and the Dark Tower.
A must read for any Dark Tower fan.
I have been told that if you HAVE NOT READ book four of the Dark Tower Series, WIZARD AND GLASS, The Dark Tower graphic novels provide some spoilers.
(Let me know if I am!!)THE GUNSLINGER BORN is a graphic novel that packs just as much punch as King’s first book in the Dark Tower Series THE GUNSLINGER.
For me, THE GUNSLINGER BORN answered many questions I had about Roland (questions I have been told are answered in WIZARD AND GLASS).
Overall, this is a remarkable story for all Dark Tower fans.HIGHLY RECOMMENDED
Well, I was warned that there were changes to the story...I read this as individual issues.
I'll explain that statement shortly.This is part of the story from Wizard and Glass in which (view spoiler)[Roland and his gunslingers take on the several layers of bad guys.
This was my favorite of the Dark Tower books, and there, Stephen King really developed Roland's character, giving him a background and a past.
The level of emotion was very high as Roland falls in love with a damsel in distress, defeats the Big Coffin Hunters, and sets him off on his journey toward the Dark Tower itself.
With the Dark Tower movie being released this year, I thought I'd delve into the huge multi-series comic book adaptation of the story, and it starts here.In this first 5-volume series, with guidance from King, Peter David and Robin Furth decided to begin the story by compiling material from the prequel/flashback events referenced in the main series to detail Roland's early days as a gunslinger, the fall of Gilead and the moment when the world begins to break apart at the seams.
I enjoyed the Dark Tower series, so I looked forward to getting back to some places and characters I missed through the graphic novels.
The writing in The Gunslinger Born is dull--an overdone mimic of the language King uses in the original series.
So I wasn't expecting miracles in the writing department from a spin-off graphic novel.But the art is a let-down as well.
At first, Lee's and Isanove's pictures are striking and elegant: strange, dark, gothic, twisted, shadowy .
Strange, dark, gothic, twisted, shadowy.
For the first chapter or so, I enjoyed seeing a graphic depiction of familiar characters, but the novel quickly lost its charm.
Great graphic novel that goes into the Roland origins story as related in The Gunslinger and Wizard and Glass.The art was great.
Fans of Dark Tower will love it.
I'm not sure how it does as an entry into the main series of books though.
The books also give more detail than is in the comic, but what this has that the books don't is extra information interspersed about the histories of Gilead and Arthur Eld and the mythology of "In World." This is actually NEW information that the books only hint at.I enjoyed it and will continue with the rest of the graphic novels.4 stars
WOW, WHAT AN AMAZING ADAPTATION!!!
First off, I must say that this book is not recommended for those who have not read the Dark Tower series (especially Wizard and Glass on which this graphic novel is based).
However, for those that have read and enjoyed Wizard and Glass, this graphic novel is a real treat.
The artwork is superb, the tone is spot on, and the writers do an amazing job of translating a 500 page story into 150 page graphic novel without losing the scope of the book in the process.
I absolutely loved it and cannot recommend it highly enough.
Así que en los próximos meses van a ir encontrando en estas reseñas puntos importantes que no deben olvidar para entender mejor esta saga de fantasía oscura creado por Stephen King.
También en este libro y es de vital importancia leerlo te explican las 13 llaves de invocación y por que están alrededor del rey carmesí, esa hoja es la pagina 44, mucha atención ahí.
6. Pagina 145 hay un dialogo primordial acerca de los animales de la mitología de King, que deben ponerle atención, para que más adelante entiendan algo referente a los portalesAHORA SÍ:¿Para qué leer el nacimiento del pistolero?1.
I'm still not a fan of the familiarity of the narrator with the reader, but the story is solid.I love the way the GN explains things like Ka and Ka-tet as soon as the words are used.
As the narrator was addressing the reader, he spoke in too familiar a voice.
As I read the Dark Tower series, I feel it's almost an epic fable, but addressed in such a way makes it too personal and "right now".
I want to feel like I am reading/hearing this story eons after it has taken place, not a week later.
Fantástica precuela? del pistolero de Stephen King. Me esperaba una fiel adaptación de la novela y me encontré con mucho más. Nuevos personajes, villanos entre bambalinas y escenas que dan redondez a un personaje que un principio resulta un tanto árido. Con este principio tan épico tengo muchas ganas de continuar leyendo los cómics.
We had our national comic days in Breda Netherlands and a colleague of mine did get some copies of this book for free so he could pass them at his work so hence my adding this to my reading-list and reading this today.The Dark tower a series I steered clear from, which is odd as I like Stephen King novels, I did not see the movie which is odd as my wife kinda fancies Idris Alba and Matthew McConaughey.
Not sure why we did not go.I recently downloaded the whole Dark tower series on my e-reader as I figured it was about time to start reading this sooner than later.Anyhow back to this comic which is fairly well written and looks glorious in this presentation with the zeven chapter collected in one good looking comic-book with hardcover.
If you have read the novel and first book of the Dark Tower series, Gunslinger, then you are going to love this graphic novel.
In this graphic novel, Peter David with the help of Stephen King writes what occurs after Roland gets his novice guns.
I've always wanted to know the story about Susan, Roland's only love.
He talks about her wistfully in the books, but doesn't go into detail on what happened to her.That is basically the graphic novel.
We get to see everything that happens right after Roland becomes a Gunslinger and we get to meet his friends and Susan.
But lately I've gotten into reading graphic novels, and I know King has been interested in them as a medium (Just look at the main character in Cell).
(My only nit was that I didn't know what a "thinny"was, but a quick Google search ironed that out.) The book left me wanting to see/read more in the DT graphic novel series, but also left me wanting to go back and finish the original King books.
The Marvel crew that is in place is clearly their A Team, a team that totally understands the medium and how it works - along with the attendant dangers of adapting books for sequential art.
Ho avuto un inizio un po' difficile dovuto al fatto che mi sono abituata a leggere manga e mi sono dovuta riabituare alla lettura occidentale ^^Graphic novel fantastica, alcune parti leggermente diverse rispetto al romanzo e altre complementari.Le tavole di Jae Lee (tra i miei fumettisti Marvel preferiti) sono spettacolari.Piccola curiosità: nella postfazione, Stephen King, parla di idee nuove che avrebbe voluto utilizzare per fare altri fumetti e ci racconta la trama di 22.11.63, quattro anni prima che venisse pubblicato.
Well, I finally finished the main sequence of Stephen King's Dark Tower series (all 8 books) and found out there's more story told in the graphic novels.
I enjoyed it quite a bit and Wizard and Glass remains my favorite in the main series.While the story remains great, there's also so much missing from the book that just isn't captured in the graphic novel.
The whole relationship between Roland and Susan is completely surface, whereas I consider the book's representation one of the best love stories I've ever read.
This will make me wait a little longer to re-read the Dark Tower series; but then I found my library has every one of these graphic novels and I got excited.
This graphic novel is basically the fourth book in the series Wizard and Glass.
I also think since I have read the Dark Tower series, and have formed my own versions of what these iconic characters looked like, I had a slight issue with the way they were drawn.
I highly recommend this to any fan of the Dark Tower saga.
I'm a big fan of The Dark Tower, and I was a mixture of excited and apprehensive when I heard about its comic book adaptation.
They're all shadow and dark, and the use of black negative space is incredible.
Stephen King is lengthy for a reason, and comic books are somewhat short in the textual sense.
So the mood is maintained and they pull off the almost impossible feat of making you feel like you're reading The Dark Tower all over again, instead of a shoddy knock-off.
Funny thing, I actually enjoyed this more than Wizard and Glass.
This is a comic of Roland's early years.
The story is told in book four of The Dark Tower series, Wizard and Glass.
I collected the individual issues as they came out.There are maybe six pages of new material which I found very disappointing.
I have the individual issues that include pages of the original pencils and I really hope they include them in the collected edition.
Absolutely amazing.This series is worth picking up for the artwork alone.
If the artwork is even half as good, I'll pick it up.
And I'm back in Mid World.
After reading this first volume, I know that I'll love this series.
There are some major spoilers in this first volume alone, which aren't revealed in the series until book 4, Wizard and Glass.
This volume is very well done as it starts with Roland's quest to become a gunslinger, his first quest, and first ka-tet.
I'm looking forward to the next few volumes as they touch on Roland's time before the first book of the series, The Gunslinger, and events that he mentions throughout the entire series.
This makes me want to re-read the entire series.
Ok this is a second time around for this book but there is a reason...I have finally been able to get all the various instalments to both series of the Dark Tower.
For me the Gunslinger series represents many things - (which is no surprise considering the number of influences that Stephen King himself has acknowledged in the making of this grand story) but if the books were a epic tale on a grandiose scale these graphic novels make it far more personal and intimate after all if the books are making a world then these graphic novels are the making of a man.So starts my journey in to the Dark Tower graphic novels.
I think it's become clear over the past few months that graphic novels just aren't my thing.
That book was the best of the series, but all of the things that made it such a terrific novel are missing from the comic-book version.
Where King injected emotion and pathos, this is flat and sterile.
Where King built a rich and believable world, this is almost claustrophobic in the narrowness of its scope.
Where King developed nuanced characters, this provides a series of cliches.
In the end, this attempt proves that when he's at his best, King's words are worth more than 1,000 pictures.
This is such a stunning accompaniment to the series I love so much.
The artwork is incredible, and I like that they break down the process at the back of the collection to show you how much work goes into creating each frame.There's little to say about the story itself - here, the Dark Tower saga begins in chronological order, and I'd recommend people read the series before the comic, or only read the comic if they have no intention of reading the novels.
Just admiring the art and appreciating that this story has taken on a new shape.
If you haven't yet read the Dark Tower series (or finished the series) and plan to, don't read this book!
The writers and artists have crammed an impressive number of spoilers into this brief volume, and have also bulldozed levels of nuance which make the Dark Tower series such a good read.Some elements of the artwork are inspired and atmospheric, which I appreciate, but the artists still work for Marvel, so the male characters look like they're on steroids and have had chin implants and the one female character who's supposed to be attractive looks like a Barbie doll who's been posterized.
And you can forget about character development in such a short book.Oh well.
