https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/997336.Beau_Sabreur
The continuation of the Beau series and the series of amazing coincidences.
This time the focus is on Major de Beaujolais, who found the fort of dead soldiers in Beau Geste, his enlistment and years of service culminating in a great proposal to a local Emir.
The Major’s exploits would put Lawrence of Arabia to shame, but even the Major was over-shadowed by the revelation of who the Emir and Vizier were.
There some humour but plenty more of misogamy and racism (not just White on Black but between the French and the Americans).
It’s an old style yarn of a tall story.
This is an amazingly delightful and witty book; a wonderful discovery that my Grandfather led me to.
The first half was enjoyable ...
all the delight of a swashbuckling romance with a noble hero ...
the second half turned everything in the first half on its head, with multiple surprises I never saw coming.
A truly lovely book that I will enjoy reading again in a few years.
Thanks, Grandfather!
I had no idea I would enjoy it so much!
If only I could find a copy of the silent film made around the same time the book was written, I would love to see that.
It ends the story jus about over 1/2 way & then changes persons & perspectives & goes back to a prior event......Upto then it was about a fellah who joins the French Army & works his way through being a cavalry officer, to spy, to envoy in the North African theatre of the French Empire.
The writing borders on a farce or what was once called a screwball comedy if it was a film & its alright in that respect as a change of pace for me but in truth Im probably revealed at the get-out clause of the change as above.....
This is NOT Beau Geste part 2 in any shape or form, even Doug Mc Clure would have avoided this script......
This book should be, along with Beau Geste and Beau Ideal, required reading for all boys in every school in the world. This book in particular focuses on duty and morals. Sometimes the two can conflict, other times they go hand in hand. It strains the importance of the two for being essential elements of being a good soldier, or Beau Sabreur which translates into literally "good swordsman," hence the name.
This book was written in 1926 and it is a very good adventure story concerning France’s colonial empire in Africa.
It is a story with several very unexpected twists and turns.
It is tough to follow the geography which when I’m reading such as adventure story of historical fiction, I like to understand where the general locations are and the story is taking place.
A few well-placed maps by the publisher would have been nice and enhanced the experience for me.
But that difficulty doesn’t really take anything away from the adventure.
I loved "Boy's Own" classic Beau Geste but Beau Sabreur is just too much: too preposterous, too racially arrogant and too obsessed with masculinity (as expressed by butchering everyone in sight- particularly the unfortunate locals). The two main characters are both saved by almost the same extraordinary fortune- and there is a ghastly narrative technique where the book is split into two to conceal the ridiculous conceit that the author carries on all the way through the first half, which (I suppose) would be a spoiler to reveal. Just re-read Beau Geste!
I read Beau Jest a long time ago and, as I recall, really enjoyed it. I wasn't even aware that it was the first of a trilogy, so when that came to light I was excited, but this book wasn't nearly as exciting. That might be because of my advancing years, but the whole thing was very confusing.
This is a book I couldn't put down. I was reading it while traveling in Germany and spent hours in my hotel just finishing the book, which is so unlike me when I'm traveling. It was spellbinding for me and I absolutely loved it.
This book is incredible! The author’s sarcasm comes through his writing in the best way and he had me laughing out loud many times. The first part of the book ends in a huge plot twist and the second half of the book is a whirlwind of deceit and more plot twists. Just when the reader thinks everything is wrapping up, the author throws in another plot twist on the last page just for kicks. Great read!
Reread Dec 2012. And as a footnote to the brief review below, my 10 (now 13) did read all of these books and LOVED them as have all the young men I've recommended them to. --Cracking great story. Not as suitable for young boys as Beau Geste (only because there's a bit of smooching in one part and I can't see my 10yo getting in to that ((nor do I wish it:)))Fabulous fun. P.C. Wren was a funny guy. Love the humor.
I believe I enjoyed this one more than the first, perhaps because no movies have been made of it and it was new to me as a result. The absolute idolatry of the British upper class in this one grew tiresome and it certainly falls into the unpolitically correct bin filled with Buchan, Haggard, and more of that ilk. (I've always wanted to meet an ilk.) Still they have their charms and this one does as well. Onward to the third volume in the series now. Excelsior!
well i liked this book a lot it was great i recommend reading beau geste first that is another great book.
I remember seeing the movie Beau Geste when i was a child and decided to read the book. After reading beau Geste I picked up other books by Wren and have enjoyed them all.
