https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252838.Lord_Valentine_s_Castle
Lord Valentines Castle, Robert Silverberg’s brilliant 1980 publication that won the Locus Award and was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Novel is a superb mix of fantasy and science fiction.Beginning with a seemingly obvious theatrical irony, Silverberg invites his reader along for a very entertaining visit to his world creation – Majipoor.Aside from an engaging and well-written conflict involving the amnesiac Valentine regaining his past, Silverberg’s Majipoor is the real protagonist –the novel is a vehicle by which Silverberg can introduce us to his magnificent invention.Similar to China Mieville’s New Crobuzon world building, Silverberg’s Majipoor swells with life and vibrant history.
It feels like he is walking around, minding his own business and suddenly the narrative encounters him and latches on to him for the entire book.Lord Valentine’s Castle is, I believe, Robert Silverberg’s first stab at something like an epic fantasy, though a more appropriate label would be science fantasy.
So begins Valentine’s quest to restore his position as the rightful Coronal.Prior to writing Lord Valentine’s Castle Silverberg was known for several thought provoking standalone “new wave” sci-fi novels like  Dying Inside,  A Time of Changes,  To Live Again,  The World Inside etc.
(click on image for larger, and complete, picture)At the end of the day, I enjoyed Lord Valentine’s Castle very much, but I personally prefer his more thought provoking standalone books.
i think i was too scared to return to that bookstore.so this book has nothing to do with St. Valentine, whew.although it is ostensibly about Finding Your True Self and What Makes A Good Leader, i found the novel was equally concerned with two other things: World Building and Silverberg's Vision of a (Semi) Perfect World.haters of world building need to give this novel a pass.
reading Lord Valentine's Castle made me realize that this was all the author's version of his own ideal world.
I was in a period of upheaval about then (not an unusual situation in my past as it happens) so I sort of "lost" the book I suppose.So, that said I have been meaning for some time to go back and pick it up.
He begins the book thinking he's just "Valentine" and has no memory of who he is, where he came from or anything about his past.
In a book that could easily have bogged down into a detail laden tome of background details about the alien world on which it happens, the peoples of that world and all the other world building, character and plot minutiae we instead get an interesting a very well told story.I can recommend this one, enjoy.
And I did, to my disappointment Trite and more or less predictable, the book is really no more than a tour of Majipoor Silverberg's made-up planet of far-away pseudo-magic and leftover bits of science.
Majipoor brings a few tasty tidbits to the table, but a crap story does nothing to help.Let me summarize: If you don't guess that the amnesiac hero is actually the high king of the planet 10 pages in, you are probably soaked to the gills with barbituates.
It's just that there are so many far better works to waste time on.
Robert Silverberg was a huge sensation in the 80s and his most famous works - outside of some exceptional short stories - were the Majipoor Chronicles, of which Lord Valentine's Castle is the first complete novel.
Lord Valentine's Castle introduces us to Majipoor, and although peopled by a number of races who chiefly had origins from other planets, the genre leans towards fantasy more than sci-fi.
What I really enjoyed about Lord Valentine's Castle is that it was a major move away from the larger warring worlds that dominate the epic fantasy genre.
"Valentine, a wanderer who knows nothing except his name, finds himself on the fringes of a great city, and joins a troupe of jugglers and acrobats; gradually, he remembers that he is the Coronal Valentine, executive ruler of the vast world of Majipoor, and all its peoples, human and otherwise..."This book may be 35 years old, but the political issues that it deals with still resonate strongly today.
Majipoor is a very multicultural world, supporting many different races, including a persecuted aboriginal population largely confined to their own province.
So for world building, Majipoor gets five big stars.
I also thought The basic plot, though straight-forward and somewhat simple, was interesting and a great vehicle to explore the world of Majipoor.
Overall, an excellent book and I look forward to visting Majipoor again in the not too distant future (hopefully to learn a lot more about the mysterious metamorphs).
"You may not pass!" the ugly, stupid guards thundered."Huh. Yikes.
I really need to get by you, guys," Valentine said.The guards considered this briefly.
Surely there can be no deeper reserves than these, Valentine thought to himself.He stood tall, faced the guards, smiled, and said, "Would it change anything if I told you I was the Coronal?
I mean, I know I don't look like the Coronal, but if you squint a bit—""My Lord!" the guards cried, falling to their knees and making the sign of the starburst with their ugly, stupid fingers.
Forgive us!"Oh, nice, Valentine thought.
"Conquest over self was the finest of victories."(467) It pains me that this book is languishing in undeserved obscurity. Lord Valentine's Castle follows the journey of Valentine, devoid of any semblance of identity and perhaps irretrievably deprived of indescribably defining memories, living a wanderer’s life, joining a band of jugglers, learning the trade in the only way it was meant to be learned, by heart and soul, and comes to the realization that he has fallen from the highest possible st
For it is not so much as the color of the skin that talks but of the profound meaning and effect it carries concerning minute details of vital necessity not only in the fantasy genre but of printed work generally… for most fantasy plots are patterned if not derived from the middle ages of conquest where the dichotomy of the white and black or of the east-west conflict is fundamentally translated to good and bad respectively and the stratification of the social class is at its height..’’ Authors like this must be read!Silverberg’s world building is exceptionally extensive and my imagination was left in no less a euphoric state given the way he wrote.
Another book I've read several times. The whole series is good, but this book is my favorite in the series (and it is the first). Valentine wakes up as a circus performer traveling through an interesting world (set in an alternate world, not earth) but stricken with amnesia. Overtime he comes to realize that he is actually the ruler of this kingdom, but he has been driven from power by villians and has to find his way back.
i first read this when i was less than half my current age, re-read it many times over the next ten years, and still remember it fondly.
i don't have any way of knowing how i would receive it if i were to read it for the first time now, and i'm even a little wary of re-reading it again for fear it will have lost some of its shine.
but i still treasure the copy i've got, and i may yet recommend it to someone else, if i realize they need to read it.
So, with a loyal group of friends, he sets out to get some answers and to try to make things right.Lord Valentine’s Castle (1980) is considered a classic SFF novel and, therefore, it’s one I’ve been planning to read (and expecting to love) for years.
Indeed, there is much to love about Robert Silverberg’s world of Majipoor — it’s a huge hinterlands planet full of jungles, volcanoes, archipelagoes, deserts, long rivers, and sprawling cities populated by alien races and Old Earth humans.
I hope these things will be explained in later Majipoor books.I listened to Blackstone Audio’s production of Lord Valentine’s Castle which was read by one of my favorite narrators: Stefan Rudnicki.
Almost certainly the first novel, and I think it's the best work of his that I've read (and a clear step above others in the series).
I learned never to leave books around people who can read, but are too foolish to want to.
This time, I learned that Silverberge has something of Vance's knack with weird description, but without the cold-bloodedness.
In fact, one of the strength's of the novel is Valentine's warm heart.
But the humans are the heart of the story, and that's done very well.
I think I was just in the right mood for its innocent epic hero quest storyline, but let me tell you, so many books long to attempt even a tenth of what this book accomplishes.
Dreams play prominently in this story, and I really liked the seamless interspersing of visions and dreams with the storyline.
Lastly, I really liked the fact that this book succeeds where so many others fail.
This is a much better offering than previous examples I've read by him, I think he does a lot better when dealing with science fiction on an epic level, or at least character driven level.
When ye start the book, Valentine is entering an enormous city in time for a festival.
I don’t tend to like books where the characters wander around and nothing really exciting happens.
Valentine waffles and hems and haws about his identity even when it has already been proven to the reader and even other characters in the book.I do not like wishy-washy characters or angst.
I did understand why Valentine wouldn’t want to take up his old position.
The second book, Majipoor Chronicles, is now sitting on my PDA, waiting for me to have the time to read it.Lord Valentine's CastleMajipoor, Book 1Robert Silverberg9/10[Copied across from Library Thing; 3 December 2012]REREAD #2: (3 December 2012 - 15 December 2012)This is still a wonderful book, even on this third (or possibly fourth) reread.
He writes of an "agrarian society" which contains "a small village of perhaps eleven million people." Lord Valentine marches 2,000 miles with an army of 50,000 in less than a month.
It would have to be the size of China!Oh, and somehow in that 1-month, 2,000 mile forced march of 50,000 soldiers, Lord Valentine only has to provision them once, and only then with "a little fruit and meat."But size and quantity are not Silverberg's only failings.
From Silverberg we learn that machines once put into place and set to working never stop working even when the society's level of technology mysteriously regresses.
I'm finding this very uninteresting. And I hit a spoiler in my review searches!(I suspected anyways)At the 50-page mark I am ungripped. This is the first Silverberg that I didn't care for, and loved the others so I will definitely read him again.
More people should read this book, its amazing.
I read this an inestimably long time ago. The stars are in memory of my memory.
Robert Silverberg’s novel “Lord Valentine’s Castle” (first published in 1980) is a clever mix of science fiction and Tolkien-esque fantasy, and I’m pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed it.
It’s a genre that I have tried, numerous times, to read and enjoy, but it never quite grabs me in the way that science fiction or even horror grabs me.
George R.R. Martin’s “Game of Thrones” series was, I thought, very well-written, but I stopped after the second book, not because I didn’t like it but because I felt there were simply too many characters.
Една от най-любимите ми книги от времето, когато бях юноша бледен, четена и препрочитана поне десетина пъти.Силвърбърг има невероятна фантазия и усет за светоизграждане, комбинирана с причудливи изобретения и сполучливо създадени герои от множество различни раси.
Мащабите са огромни, описанията дъзки и цветни, миризми, обичаи и усещания успяват да вдъхнат истински живот на тази фантатична и уникална сама по себе си планета.Валънтайн, главния герой в това приключение е изгубил паметта си, но бива приютен от група странстващи жонгльори и започва да учи занаята от тях.
Историята продължава в няколко последователни книги, за съжаление само част от тях са издадени на български.Един от романите определено направили поредицата "Галактика" толкова значима за българските почитатели на фантастиката.
But I also know that some of his later stuff was good too as I have read and enjoyed both Tom O'Bedlam and The Face of the Waters, which were both written after this risible tosh, so I can't put this down to an irreversible decline in taste and sense.When you think of all the great books that never won either the Hugo or the Locus - let alone both - the mind boggles with regards what that year's panel were thinking!Reading this book can make you want a place a pox on your own house if, like me, you have that ridiculous, masochistic predilection to finish every book you start.
Much of the technology has been lost, and Majipoor is at a feudal, agricultural level of development and something of a galactic backwater.
But overall, it is a peaceful and prosperous world.Here we find Valentine, a young man who has forgotten his past.
But Valentine is not who he seems, and when he discovers his true identity, he faces a great challenge, and a journey across much of Majipoor.Silverberg has created a fascinating world, filled with many colorful characters of various species.
I look forward to the next book in the series, Lord Valentine Pontifex and the continuing political intrigue it will reveal.
A feast for the senses as well as the intellect, Silverberg has created a vast world of wonder, part science fiction, part fantasy, part fairy tale, with a just enough of a touch of 1970s sci-fi sexiness.
Silverberg is a master world builder; you will find few points to quibble on in his gigantic world.
What's nice about this series (at least the first three in the series; I found his later Majipoor books to be less desirable) is that you can come back to it again and again; it's very re-readable.
I'm always surprised this isn't a more beloved series of books.
richly rendered epic fantasy with a scifi twist, which is reminiscent of jack vance. the characters are sympathetic if not compelling, the plot has a flavor of the protag slowly leveling up but still moves quickly enough. a recommended read for fans of the classic SFF epics of the 70s and 80s.
Great epic fantasy from Robert Silverberg.SRC 2018 SUM Task 30.6-2 w/ Planetfall (satisfied this task with two books based on writer's gender and initials)
I know this is supposed to be one of the classics of modern SiFi but I just could not get into the book. The story seemed to drag and never pick up for me. Not recommended
Маджипур. Необятен свят, в пъти по-голям от родната ни Земя, където хората от незапомнени времена съжителстват с интелигентни извънземни раси. Свят на замъци и ездитни животни, в чието небе от време на време проблясват двигателите на самотен космически кораб. Давладяващ и епичен свят, в който Робърт Силвърбърг елегантно преплита фентъзи и научна фантастика, създавайки един от най-големите шедьоври и на двата жанра. Пътешествието ни из този свят започва от „Замъкът на лорд Валънтайн” (изд. „Бард“). Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле": https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
