https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3412.The_Thorn_Birds
I gave this book a five-star rating because otherwise my mother would disown me. (How would she know? Mothers know everything.) This is her favorite book/movie/miniseries. My first reaction to hearing this story was to stare blankly, shake my head and think to myself, 'parents have the worst taste in books.' I grew up on Britney, Christina and Backstreet Boys. I survived Twilight. I owned a a bright pink Spice Girls T-shirt that had matching shorts with white hearts (and wore it proudly in publ
Mothers know everything.) This is her favorite book/movie/miniseries.
My first reaction to hearing this story was to stare blankly, shake my head and think to myself, 'parents have the worst taste in books.' I grew up on Britney, Christina and Backstreet Boys.
I think what I love most about the book is its realism.
Like her mother before her, Meggie marries a man she doesn't love.
In a sense Ralph was like God; everything began and ended with him.
Like the old Celtic legend of the bird with the thorn in its breast, singing its heart out and dying.
Tidbits.........The relationship between Father Ralph de Bricassart and Meggie Cleary calls for a lengthy book club discussion- in itself!!
Father Ralph says: "I've known Meggie since she was ten years old, only days off the boat from New Zealand.
.....A theme that never got off the ground: Early in this novel, when Meggie was a small child - in school with the nuns- she became friends with a little black girl.
Justine- As unfair as I felt she was 'emotionally' loved by her mother- Meggie...she was my least favorite character in the book too.
I would give this all the stars in the sky if I could. This was simply the best book I've ever read..  This might sound strange, but I crave a book that is going to ruin me for all other novels to come. And this was it! Something in my greedy little reader paws, wants a book that is going to destroy me. Wreak havoc upon me. Do you know what I am talking about? Well, maybe you don't. Hmph.This story lifted my heart and made my soul come alive. I felt as if the characters ingratiated themselves
This was simply the best book I've ever read..
This might sound strange, but I crave a book that is going to ruin me for all other novels to come.
Hmph.This story lifted my heart and made my soul come alive.
With that being said, there is something that you must know and accept before beginning this novel.
Um..?**Important note**I've recently been informed that this author has supported and condoned the rapes that have been occurring on Pitcairn Island located in the South Pacific.
If you are interested in finding out more information, you can view this article that a fellow GR friend shared with me.https://www.smh.com.au/world/pitcairn...
These provide a slight focus, but the only characters who really dominate the story are Meggie, Ralph - the Catholic priest who falls in love with her - and Justine, Meggie's daughter by Luke.There is definitely tragedy in this book, but I never once found it depressing.
A few things I could see coming, like Dane turning out just like his father, but even then it felt completely natural, not as though McCullough was manipulating the story.It seems funny, reading a book of extreme heat, drought, flies, fire, endless silvery grass while outside it's freezing, snowing, bleak.
Epics have been forgotten & more readily current authors satisfy readers (or do not, as the case may be) with smaller stories & smaller lives.McCullough has the tenacity to include three generations in this sprawling saga, and as family portraits usually tell of differences between the generations PLUS the ties that bind them together and to a home, this one exactly does that in an extremely entertaining fashion.Fee marries her second choice, not the man of her dreams, and becomes pregnant with more or less the number of digits one has in both hands; she lives a quiet & ironically isolationist existence.
Normally, a five star read would merit a long review depicting characters, place, time, and the author's luscious prose.
Yet, despite the story of the Cleary family and their parish priest being a much needed tonic for me, I am omitting my long review for now.
That is because The Thorn Birds is our quarterly long read in the group Retro Chapter Chicks here on goodreads.
The Thorn Birds has catapulted itself to my all time favorite shelf and will be a saga that I sense myself revisiting more than once.
Oh my fucking God. This book.
I was standing in the kitchen this morning angrily chopping veg and I couldn't work out why, then I realised, it was this book just making me irrationally angry, when I wasn't even reading it!Tragedies within the first 50 pages, let's list them.1.
There was some shit about how priests should be allowed to marry because what is God if not Love and some other stuff about being married to the land and where babies come from.
The thorn birds, Colleen McCulloughThe Thorn Birds is a 1977 best-selling novel by the Australian author Colleen McCullough. Set primarily on Drogheda—a fictional sheep station in the Australian Outback named after Drogheda, Ireland—the story focuses on the Cleary family and spans the years 1915 to 1969. The novel is the best selling book in Australian history, and has sold over 33 million copies worldwide. Meghann "Meggie" Cleary, a four-year-old girl living in New Zealand in the early twentiet
‏‫‭The thorn birds, Colleen McCulloughThe Thorn Birds is a 1977 best-selling novel by the Australian author Colleen McCullough.
Set primarily on Drogheda—a fictional sheep station in the Australian Outback named after Drogheda, Ireland—the story focuses on the Cleary family and spans the years 1915 to 1969.
The novel is the best selling book in Australian history, and has sold over 33 million copies worldwide.
Meghann "Meggie" Cleary, a four-year-old girl living in New Zealand in the early twentieth century, is the only daughter of Paddy, an Irish farm labourer and Fee, his harassed but aristocratic wife.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ The Thorn Birds is one of those books that might be as great as I remember . . . or it might have been a real turd. However, it consistently pops up on my feed due to other friends reading it and I felt it was high time to explain my 5 Star rating (and Tadiana’s review of a different book added some inspiration). Here’s the deal. This was the first book I ever stole from my mother. It was right after the miniseries came out, I was lik
However, it consistently pops up on my feed due to other friends reading it and I felt it was high time to explain my 5 Star rating (and Tadiana’s review of a different book added some inspiration).
As a terrible good Catholic, I spent the remainder of my formative years reading and re-reading this book, attending mass, and fantasizing the entire time that I would end up as a “Meggie” to our young priest, Father Ralph Rick.
In all actuality, Father Rick was probably more interested in one of the altar boys being his Meggie.
This is a book I can NEVER re-read.
Magnífico! Y me quedo corta; cortísima. Tanto que he estado a punto de otorgarle mis segundas 6 estrellas del año. Hace años vi por la tele la serie que se hizo de esta novela, pero no hay punto de comparación; es imposible. En la novela vemos y sentimos a todos sus personajes, sus miedos, sus inquietudes y deseos; todo lo que aman y aborrecen. Sus defectos y virtudes. Sencillamente muy muy fan de esta escritora.
(I hid it in my room for a month b/c this is sooo not a book for a 10 year old!!) My father is an ex-Catholic priest who left the church for my mother so when the mini series came out, the world stopped in my house for an entire week.
The book spans some 40+ years of hardships they encounter.
The only daughter, Meggie, falls in love with a local parish priest who has ambitions of Rome and is constantly tempted by her seductions.
It's a tearjerker of a classic and I'm not ashamed to say I love it.
Meggie feeling very unloved by her mother.
Ralph is very fond of, Meggie and the more he see her the stronger his feelings become.
This is the first book I've read by, Colleen McCullough and it definitely won't be my last.
If you love reading Classic or Historical novels then make sure this one is at the top of your list.
I read this book with, Kathy a friend of mine who also loves reading.
Although, Kathy read this book quite a long time ago she enjoyed just as much if not more the second time round.
Loved this book!
Any progress that comes must trickle in so as not to disturb the blazing heat, endless dust, dry lightning storms, and the needs of 125,00 merino sheep.Colleen McCullough is the author of The Thorn Birds, and as a writer, she brings a lot of good stuff to the table.
I think that it takes a certain boldness for writers to just come out and state something in the 3rd person omniscient, but McCullough is capable at pulling it off.Feminism: While not a feminist tract by any means (and that's good because novels that are blatantly political tend to be problematic), Thornbirds is not a story that shirks seeing its female characters developing across the generations.
I LOVED this book, and until I read the last paragraph I couldn't figure out WHY!
What was so utterly unexpected for me is that the reason I love this book is precisely the exact reason I would have hated just yesterday it seems?!!?
This book is an impressive tale with all of life's elements present...in fact, it is a tale ABOUT life, which in turn is a tale about every one of us.
This is truly the best love story I have ever read, in more ways than one.
پرندگان خارزار، هفتصد صفحه ی تلخ و شیرین رو همراه خودش داشت؛ صفحاتی برای تجربه ی تمامِ احساساتی که طی یک عمر تجربه خواهیم کرد، با تمام اشکها و لبخندهاش.از سال هزار و نهصد و پانزده همراه تک تک اعضای خانواده ی "کلیری" بودم، تا هزار و نهصد و شصت و نه.
پنجاه و چهار سال از اتفاقاتی که بهشون گذشت، از لبخندها، شکستها، امیدها، از دست دادنها و احساسشون خوندم و نزدیکیشون رو عمیقا حس کردم.اولش همراه یه خانواده ی هفت نفره بودم.
مادر، پدر، چهار برادر، و یه خواهر؛ مگان.
ولی دوست نداره مگان صداش کنید، مگی رو ت
با مشکلات خاص خودش، و با مادری که فرزندان پسرش رو یه معجزه می‌بینه و حواسش بهشون هست، اما مگیِ مظلوم، آروم و همیشه راضیِ داستان رو‌ دچار سرنوشت تلخ تمام دختران می‌دونه و توجه چندانی بهش نداره.
با این کتاب و طی این پنجاه و چهار سال، زندگی تک‌تک شخصیت‌ها رو دنبال کردم، اما مگی همیشه در مرکز داستان بود.
پرندگان خارزار بعد از گذشت چند فصل، دیگه برای من یه کتاب ساده نبود؛ و من به این باور رسیدم که تمام شخصیت‌ها واقعی هستن و‌ جلوی چشم‌هام جون گرفتن.
Two stars for decent writing, zero stars for plot and characters.
Reading the rest of the book just felt like a chore.
He seemed manipulative and sketchy and at the same time didn't really feel like a real human being.
Meggie herself I didn't like at all.
Urghhhhh.The dialogue felt stilted and overly formal, even for the time period in which the book took place.
The story didn't feel at all real to me.
Despite the religious aspects of the book (Ralph is a freaking priest for God's sake) it didn't make me think about religion or spirituality or Catholicism in any meaningful way.
Nesta etapa da história surgem os primeiros pontos fortes da mesma; a relação entre Fee e Patsy, os pais de Maggie, e a doçura premente entre Maggie e o irmão mais velho, Frank.Julguei que tudo se passaria aí, nessa pequena cabana na Nova Zelândia, onde Maggie ajudaria sempre a mãe com as mil e uma tarefas do lar e os seus muitos irmãos cresceriam para se tornar tosquiadores como o pai.
O mais significativo do livro são, sem dúvida, as relações interpessoais.Cada uma das personagens principais, de personalidades marcantes – Maggie, Fee, Ralph, a tia Mary, Frank, Luke, Justine, Dane, Rainer, etc., etc., etc., tem algo de tão rico em si que nos rouba o pio.
Only one aspect made me a little uncomfortable (view spoiler)[not that Ralph is 18 years older than Meggie but that he met her when she was a child and had this position of authority (hide spoiler)], but thankfully the author dealt with this in a manner I could accept.As you can imagine, there are plenty of themes, but the two main ones for me were that of Pride and Love in all its guises, impeding people from doing things, or indeed pushing them into action, for the wrong reasons.
My favourite still has to be Australia and Drogheda, the harshness of the sheep farming life, and its unending beauty (minus spiders, of course).I was a child when I first heard of The Thorn Birds, an 80s tv series with a certain Richard Chamberlain, but I am so happy that I’ve finally read it.
Em muitos momentos, não resisti a saltitar umas páginas à frente para bisbilhotar o que se ia passar e é algo que nunca faço, mas a curiosidade era mais que muita.
Pelo menos é o que diz a lenda.[...]O pássaro com o espinho cravado no peito segue uma lei imutável; impelido por ela, não sabe o que é empalar-se, e morre cantando.
E assim mesmo fazemo-lo."A meio do livro, tal lenda é esmiuçada da seguinte forma:"Cada um de nós tem dentro de si alguma coisa que não pode ser negada, ainda que nos faça gritar, gritar, gritar, até ao fim.
In fact, in the beginning and at the end, I quite enjoyed reading Meggie Cleary.
Some of my favourite bits are here.“And gradually his memory slipped a little, as memories do, even those with so much love attached to them; as if there is an unconscious healing process within the mind which mends up in spite of our desperate determination never to forget.”"When a man's hands are callused you know he's honest.""Time ceased to tick and began to flow, washed over him until it had no meaning, only a depth of dimension more real than time.""Maybe senility's a mercy shown to those who couldn't face retrospection."End of the story is, I liked the book but didn't love it.
It's described beautifully, and is as unpredictable as any human character she's introduced here.This is the third McCullough book that I've read, and I feel like she must have spent an inordinate amount of her life just observing life and people.
We can only reach so far into their hearts for the mysteries that elude us, because, like real people, they don't have open-book hearts and minds.
We meet Meggie Cleary as a 4 year old birthday girl, and then follow her through six decades of life, love and loss.
Meggie meets and loves Father Ralph, the Catholic priest in the area.
Ainda que ficção histórica não seja dos géneros literários que mais aprecio, tenho uma certa tendência para adorar (e até delirar) com enredos focados numa mesma família.
Este em particular toca em temas como a existência do ser humano, a importância das escolhas e a incerteza/certeza do destino.Motivos para ler este livro é o que não falta por aqui, deixo os meus eleitos:1 - as personagens são tão completas que sentimos que vivem para além do livro2 - a escrita da autora é cativante, rica em imagens e sentimentos, conseguimos facilmente visualizar as paisagens que a autora descreve3 - a autora consegue relacionar muito bem a história da família com os acontecimentos da época4 - é um livro muito absorvente, daqueles que nos fazem esquecer onde estamos5 - Colleen McCullough sabe realmente como contar uma históriaNão é um romance perfeito, nem sei se tal coisa existe.
I didn't read this book when it was popular (when I was in high school) because my mother wouldn't let me - because of the affair the Priest has.
Well, a few months ago she was getting rid of a bunch of books & asked me if I wanted any of them & The Thorn Birds was in there.
I asked if I was allowed to read it now that I was 46 yrs.
I didn't want the book to end.
By the way, the so called affair the Priest had, was pretty mild.
This was a reread for me. When I read it some 30 years ago I didn't get to finish it because someone stole it off of my work desk. I had to know the ending. It is just so epic. If you love a big sweeping saga, this is a must.
692 pages of a wonderful family saga. I loved it all.....the secrets, the family, the bonds, the deceit, the stubbornness, the pride and the love!!!! Sooooo goooood!
("After all, we all need to relax now and then." Hmmmph!)Well, now I'm older and wiser and more inclined to read books for enjoyment than for the pleasure of imagining how people will be impressed when they scan my bookshelves, and since I have realised that every crime that can be imagined has been done to death already (sorry!), I have started to read books I wouldn't have touched in the past.
In other words, chic lit, romantic fiction, historical fiction and the like.And I've been discovering plenty of good reads in the process.
It's a good story that catches your interest right from the start.
2nd re-read and it still has not lost anything. A more review-like compilation of thoughts will be forthcoming in a few days.
And there sets the setting for The Thorn Birds by Colleen McCullough; a quest in search of true love but faced with a powerful, forbidden passion that only grows stronger and more painful as time goes by .
The Thorn Birds has definitely found a spot on my favorites list, as I loved the story, the turbulent cast of characters and beautifully descriptive scenes in this book.
Spellbinding!
