https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173673.A_Course_in_Miracles
I've read it a couple dozen times over the last 25 years and still read it daily.
If you are drawn to it, please begin by reading the Clarification of Terms in the back of the book so that when you begin, you'll know how certain words are being used.
The language stopped me several times at the beginning.
Then a friend told me to begin with the Workbook (Part II).
This is a day to day reading and meditation.
Once you do, it's time to begin at the beginning of the book.I can't think of a book I recommend more highly.
You don't read this book. You live it. I studied it for several years back in 1980, and it transformed my life then. Now I am re-studying it, slowly so as to not miss a single insight, and it is transforming me yet again. This is not a philosophy. It is a new way of actually perceiving the world, a course in practical Christian mysticism. If asked to select only one book to have with me for the rest of my life, this would be it.
Only the time you take it is voluntary.
Free will does not mean that you can establish the curriculum.
It means only that you can elect what you want to take at a given time.
The course does not aim at teaching the meaning of love, for that is beyond what can be taught.
The opposite of love is fear, but what is all-encompassing can have no opposite.This course can therefore be summed up very simply in this way:Nothing real can be threatened.Nothing unreal exists.Herein lies the peace of God."ACIM is the book that Helped change my perception of everyone and everything to a happy Perspective.
It is probably the most challenging book I've ever read.
I got involved with A Course In Miracles (ACIM) group in town and found that there was a good deal of skimming over whatever seemed most impactful in the book.
Basically, it shows this world as created to "prove" that division and separation really happened and is still happening.
ACIM turns this around and shows how there can be no real separation or division at all.
What if the words of Jesus were expanded upon and instead of taking up a few dozen pages as they do in the first four books of the Bible they went on for 669 pages?
What if the words were suddenly believable and more consistent with the non-dualistic philosophy of One?
Most Christians I speak with about it hate this book.
The more philosophically open minded people I speak with about it say it is too difficult to take in the simple but profound prescriptions offered.
All people are brothers and the only path to salvation is forgiveness.
While the content is given in "the mode" of Christianity, the underlying concepts are universal in nature.
The scope of the concepts is enormous, where ideas are presented in an amazing array of variation, yet somehow these variations all illuminate the central messages.
The degree of internal logical consistency is amazing, creating a framework that at times delivers thoroughly mindblowing content.
But the framework is not one of a definitive position or thesis.
So the framework is rather elusive and hidden, creating the anchor for the ideas in some uncreated depth.This book is indescribable.
This book really laid out for me the differences between the ego and the true Self and allowed me to see which was operating when in my life, mostly in myself but sometimes in others.
The concepts in this book are amazingly powerful and the kind of simple that is not easy.
I had to really force myself to focus on meaning rather than form (which is part of the point!) It took me a year to read the text part, a little each day.
I continue to try to do a lesson each day.
I sometimes revisit the text with study groups.
This is my new scripture! I find more love and peace than in any bible or other religious writings I have ever read. I truly believe these words come from our Guardian and have way more guidance in these words than anything! I feel at complete peace and although I didn't completely understand on a human level, I felt something happening on a spiritual level--energetically. I recommend it to EVERYONE! Very deep, but so worth it!
It is probably the most challenging book I've ever read.
I got involved with A Course In Miracles (ACIM) group in town and found that there was a good deal of skimming over whatever seemed most impactful in the book.
Basically, it shows this world as created to "prove" that division and separation really happened and is still happening.
ACIM turns this around and shows how there can be no real separation or division at all.
I highly recommend this as a way to peace. It's different from many other books in that it doesn't so much tell you what is or what to think, but to get past the illusions of your mind and ego, and get past the tyranny of your imagination to find the reality of love and divinity that's always been there. It's a great challenge to the ruts of indoctrinated thought, not only in religion, but in society. It's a deliberate gateway to an inner revolution.
blows my egoaway
But wouldn't a spiritual self-help book try to be more, well, accessible?
The course's extreme focus on self, on ME - isn't this contrary to becoming spiritual - wouldn't the emphasis be on the divine, on God?
But I found the book's redefinition of Christ disturbing, and when the writer/author/narrator told me I am "pathetic" for believing in the redemptive work of Christ on the cross, I was offended.
Reading those passages in context might help a reader understand the volume (and/or the Bible) better or, perhaps, see the inconsistency and contradiction.
This was an other faboulas read. I shall give a full review later.Be Blessed.
Those who seek Truth know what I mean, and are probably the only audience this book has.
So I will speak to YOU guys: *Note = The writing style of this book may not be for everyone, it's very intricate and long - but only because the SIMPLE TRUTH it explains is so immensely HUGE...
Kinda proves the point, eh?A Course In Miracles can't express the Truth because the real Truth can only be lived.
So if the way that The Course explains It doesn't work for you, feel free to pass it by and continue seeking.
Profound and utterly confusing. I begin to understand it in layers. I have moments when I think, "Ah, that's what it meant." It's like a window into another dimension. For instance, try understanding and picturing four dimensions instead of three. This book is like that at first. The mind needs time to open to understanding another dimension of truth. Studying this material is a way to help that process.
A friend who survived a Near Death Experience recommended it as the only spiritual approach that fit with what she saw on the other side, namely: its message of Oneness, forgiveness and love.
The book encourages us to see things differently, with the forgiving vision of an awakening mind: "Seek not to change the world, but choose to change your mind about the world." This changing of our mind is the true "miracle" of the Course.
After 12 years of studying and learning from the Course, and completing the Workbook lessons twice, I still uncover profound new insights practically every time I pick it up.
No book has influenced me more, nor has had as profound an effect as "A Course in Miracles."This is actually a 3 volume set of books: a text, a workbook and a teacher's manual, that I read from continuously, and have for the past 31 years.
A Course in Miracles strengthens our awareness of choices we are already making and helps us to get in touch with our Inner Teacher.
The course, as I know it, does not bear Helen Shucman's name, as it does on Goodreads.
The Foundation of Inner Peace does appear where an author's name would be.
If you are genuine in your desire to understand the true meaning of your existence, including the cause of all your pain and suffering, then this really is the beginning of a journey that will change your life forever.`Truth is restored to you through your desire, as it was lost to you through your desire for something else.
Open the holy place that you closed off by valuing the "something else," and what was never lost will quietly return.'It is a truly inspirational book without comparison.
My only advice is that you take your time and understand the true depth of its message.
This is a long term self paced course.You will know when you are ready to read this simply by reading the 1st few pages or visiting the reviews and synopsis of the book.I guarantee it will change your life simply by changing and understanding more about yourself.For me within the first 3 weeks of the exercises the changes have been enormous.
Furthermore it puts to bed many mysteries from my pre-teen years and then to a lesser extent my tumultuous teen years.
If freedom from fear, guilt, sin, and death interests you, then you might want to give this book a chance - an open-minded read.
A COURSE IN MIRACLES is about the miracle of healing through mind-change.
Just read the Daily Workbook Lessons and let Jesus lead you Home.
Jesus dictated the Course.
Upon reading this book - if you are a believer in miracles - that's the first one you come to accept.
Until you read the book, you won't know what I'm talking about.
I you do begin reading what Jesus calls "a required Course," you will be amazed.

I believe the message, but the packaging is awful. This book seems to be written especially for dogmatic Christians in order to shine a different light on the interpretations of spirituality in Christianity.Considering the way Christianity is experienced in some parts of America this book may contribute to a more open and loving way of living. Other than that, I would say there are books who get down to the core of our essence along a more simple and clearer path.
This book is a profound, direct, non-dualistic pathway of awakening. The wisdom and clear instructions support a total transformation of consciousness, from identification with the voice and thought patterns of the ego (fear-based thinking) to identification with Spirit (Love) and the still, small Voice within.If this book finds you, and you know in your heart that this is the answer to a prayer for help, then ACIM has everything you need.
This book is huge and will take me a long time to finish. It's not for everyone -- there are a lot of stumbling blocks because of the "Christian"-type language. If you're able to get through it, it will be life-changing. All the other books I'm reading that are related to the Course and serve as help tools have already altered the way I see the world, which is ultimately "my" world, my perception, my projections, fears, baggage, etc. Very happy to be reading this book right now!
Our challenge is to let go of our own egos and to develop a relationship with the Holy Spirit to serve as our guide in order to lead a life of peace and joy.The second section of the course contains 365 daily lessons.
They provide a framework for opening oneself to a more mystical experience which has helped me become more attuned to my spirit.They are absolutely beautiful lessons that are relatively easy to absorb.
It is written in a language that is easy to comprehend.The course has been instrumental in helping me to let go of judgment and to embrace my oneness with all of creation.
Susan Dugan (in her book "Extraordinary Ordinary Forgiveness") describes the Course in Miracles as "a spiritual psychology that explains the constant conflic humans find themselves mired in, and offers a solution for resolving it at the level of the true mind, the only place in which it can be truly resolved.
I'd start with "Disappearance of the Universe" by Gary Renard, then read Susan's book while you're reading "The Big Blue Book" if you're interested.
I've actually had this book for over 10 years but didn't get too far, because what little I did read back then so entirely changed my perspective of the universe that I had to put it down for later study.
I have just picked it back up again, and since there are a year's worth of lesson's I expect that it will be on my "currently reading" list for at least that long.
However, this is a book that I would compare to the bible (which I've also just started reading from front to back for the first time in my life), you don't just read it once and put it down.
You study it for your entire life.
I am working hard to get through this because I feel it is hard work with a reward. I am reading it to get in touch with my spirituality or reality. I also think it clarifies what Jesus Christ was meaning to convey in the Bible that gets misinterpreted a lot. It makes sense to me.
This is the penalty for looking not within for certainty and quiet calm that liberates you from the world, and lets you stand apart, in quiet and in peace.An idol is a false impression, or a false belief; some form of anti-Christ, that constitutes a gap between the Christ and what you see.
Here the world of idols has been set by the idea this power and place and time are given form, and shape the world where the impossible has happened.
Here does the changeless change; the peace of God, forever given to all living things, give way to chaos.
Cannot believe I have never written a review for this book.Course in Miracles is really a thought system that teaches people how to find peace and love though forgiveness.
There really is no right or wrong way, personally this book has an interesting habit of meeting me where I am.I have been using this book now for more than a decade and I have never finished it but I do not concern myself with its completion as much as I do about the journey getting the message and living it.
