https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18866012-the-night-horseman
Westernové paparbacky vydavateľstva Návrat :-) zo zlatých deväťdesiatych.
Then the latter messes with his dog, Black Bart.Like I said, 'Whistling Dan' is one weird hombre.
Doctor Byrne, an intelligent but weak man of science whose contrast to Barry is one of the stories strongpoints, calls him an 'atavism.' Here's Barry when his old running mate Buck - soon to be an enemy after an unusual incident - meets up with him to bring him home to the adopted father and jilted bride he walked out on some months ago (and in a previous book):"I s'pose you're bustin' to find out the news about the folks," he said dryly, at last.The other sat with his hands loosely clasped in his lap.
Like we say in France "it does not break three leg to a duck"....th story drowned itself after a while. nothing really happened and the end...guess I was already sleeping like a log at the time I was reading those last pages...or felt like I wasSo I won't try it again except if I'm plagued by insomnia
I liked it, but it was not as good as "Untamed". A little slow at times.I plan on reading the other 2 in the Dan Barry series.
I liked this about 1/2 star less than the first in the series about Whistlin' Dan (The Untamed).
He is the total nature man, with the strength and cunning of a panther.
Tough and mean cowboys (who don't know Dan) tend to pick on him and make fun of him because of his small stature and quiet attitude most of the time.
The third and last book of the series is "The Seventh Man.") I listened to this book as a free download from LibriVox.org (by an excellent reader).
This was a really unusual western. It's an old book I bought at the Wallowa library sale. It was written in 1920. I liked it but it sure wasn't what I was expecting. I think the night horseman was "death". The book reminded me a lot of the Brad Pitt movie, "Meet Joe Black". I would love to discuss this book with someone. If anyone would like to read it I'll mail it to you just for postage fees.
What an Author lThis man must have a Bibliography in his head! Outstanding job. This story is fabulous,and one of the really good ones I have read. I have no doubt he is a great guy!
It was way too wordy and boody. The character of Dan Barry was just weird. Was he supposed to be walking around in a daze? What was I supposed to feel for him? I have the impression of a character like Don Knotts who everyone loves and fears.
#2 in the Man, a horse and a dog. Good read.
This book started with a lot of what I call flowery language meaning words that are mostly fancy, (insouciance) being one of them, and I was considering not finishing the book but I did.
I did enjoy the book as obvious in my rating because it did have a lot of classic western action.
Someone else wrote that it had a werewolf but it was a youngster who was probably raised in the wild for part of their earlier life but taken in by Joe Cumberland and raised as his own.
Don't remember what attracted me to Max Brand save that he is another author of stories of the American West. The book in question imbues the reader with a sense of foreboding and unknown menace heightened by the fact that it is left undefined as the book begins. As much psychological thriller as cowboy western. There is non of the overt romantic interaction that characterizes other writers here. There are lengthy descriptions and side-plots that divert us from the story at hand. It all ends with the inevitable showdown.
This is a generous three. The book reads often like it should have went a supernatural route (werewolves and spectres), but that is not Max Brands, but as written this book drew tedious at time, and the action was sorely limited too.
WESTERNJim read this from 5-11-16 to 5-15-16 and rated it 4.5 stars.
A very interesting plot. A western love story with a super hero cowboy.
I've heard of Max Brand all my life but never read any of his books until recently....now I can;t get enough of them. This one was intense and un-put-downable!!
primal, elemental, essential western.
Clever villain, gets it good!
Even though I had some problems with the story, the author did make me want to turn the pages to see how it all turned out.
