https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7791997-crescendo
I mean come on, apparently Patch doesn't screw Nora up enough, we may as well give them a run for their money big time, right?
But that apparently isn't enough for her so in a matter of ten seconds she conveniently compiles a list of all the things that she can't do with Patch around and dumps him (a list of differences which are never brought up again later in the story).Not too bad so far, right?
Patch gets away with making out with Nora, sexually harassing her in the first book, and even getting hit on by Marcie.
Hey. Hey, Patch? Yeah, you. Right there. Patch Cipriano? Hey there. Hi.Listen.Yeah.I will not read any more of this garbage.
Warning: You're about to read a really, really stupid review. This is because the book the review refers to is also really, really stupid. So beware. And don't drink milk before you watch Alien. That's just good sense.Now for the real review.This book irritated the shit out of me. Kira's Nuclear Triggers: a) Wishy-washy heroines with fake booksmarts/dead brain stems/attraction to rapistsb) Male protagonists who taunt/harass/objectify/cheat on/pander to wishy-washy heroinesc) Motiveless, cliché v
Go die in a hole.]I felt every single move the author made in this book, like you might feel Nora as you drive over her in your car.
Why did Rixon cart Nora all the way through the funhouse only to, you know, conveniently lose her so that OH NOEZ she lives and he gets sent to Hell without a capital letter?
Though I have to say that this mirth kind of dilutes Nora's angst which, you know, is the MAIN PLOT OF THIS BOOK therefore made it kind of hard to concentrate on.
Spoilers are coming up, but mostly about the 'relationship' between Nora and Patch.Also: pretend I'm reading this out loud to you, while I'm barely able to remember what they taught me in my anger management classes, and with a voice that's a few notches above normal volume.
When a guy tells you he'd sacrifice himself for you, you don't go around complaining about how he 'ran' when you told him you love him.
All he has to do is stick his tongue in your ear and you're slobbering all over him like a needy puppy.I lost count of how many times you told Patch to GET OUT.
So I was at Borders the other day, and this book was on the shelf and underneath it read 'Patch is the bad boy Edward wishes he was'.Of course, the idea of a forbidden-ish love story will always remind us of You-Know-What, but i'm seriously saying that this book is addictive enough for it to be a crime to compare it twilight.
It's a great mix of mystery, thriller, adventure, lurve and a sexy, sexy, sexy bad boy (or angel...?) named Patch.P.S in the blurb it says "For Nora is in the middle of a centuries-old battle between the immortal and those that have fallen".
Just read it, in a day.I cannot describe how much i adore it though, i have to say its my favourite one i've ever read.Got this off amazon yesterday, and i started reading and was hooked, i had to go out that night, and slept out and all i could think about was the book, it was that capturing.
I started reading it this morning and finished this afternoon.A Billion times better than hush hush, the author did an amazing job, can't wait for the next one, what a cliff hanger it was left on!
So many secrets and different plots, its an amazing read.
4.5 stars“Don’t ever leave me,” I told Patch, hooking a finger in the collar of his shirt and pulling him close.“You’re mine, Angel,” he murmured, brushing the words across my jawbone as I arched my neck higher, inviting him to kiss everywhere. “You have me forever.” “Being with you never felt wrong. It's the one thing I did right. You're the one thing I did right.”  “I love you, Nora. Whatever happens, promise me you'll remember that. I don't care why you came into my life, only that you did. I
I don't remember all the things I did wrong.
The story was intense and I really like some unexpected things :PP.S. I love Patch (view spoiler)[his real name is Jev, thank God :P (hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[1) Nora is stupid.
What's wrong with you?4)I didn't expect Rixon to be bad.
6)Of all people and Nephilim in the world, Patch is assigned as Marcie's guardian angel.
7)I loved the fight between Scott and Patch when Nora kisses Scott and Patch sees them and becomes jealous.
I loved it!!8)Marcie just exists to make Nora's life more difficult!!!!
Note: This review is rather "harsh" so PLEASE IF YOU LOVE THE BOOK AND DON'T WANT TO READ A RANT REVIEW ABOUT IT PLEASE DON'T READ THIS!!!SCROLLDOWNIFYOUSTILLWANTTOREADMYREVIEW This book is a classic example of a horrible imitation of  Twilight, Evermore and City of Bones .Add some cliches, one-dimensional hot guy, annoying, whiny, suicidal, boring, petty, clingy, stalkerish, slutty, stupid female heroine Nora Grey aka  The New Bella Swan , with a pinch of Anti-Feminism and damn add that gorgeou
This book is a classic example of a horrible imitation of  Twilight, Evermore and City of Bones .Add some cliches, one-dimensional hot guy, annoying, whiny, suicidal, boring, petty, clingy, stalkerish, slutty, stupid female heroine Nora Grey aka  The New Bella Swan , with a pinch of Anti-Feminism and damn add that gorgeous silver cover and TADAAAAAAA!
And seriously do you want to read another book about a Bella Swan character falling for Edward Cullen character for no apparent reason other than the guy is hot?
_____________________Thoughts Before Reading This Crap10.19.2010loved the silver theme of the book covers ^^I'm freaking jealous, I want my own copy of this T_TMoment of Jealousy Over.
Look, I get that Angels are not supposed to love humans, that this is the big no-no for this particular supernatural creature, but it seems a little stupid for the archangels to let the fallen angels run rampant and then lose their shit and play the hell card over this.Other major plot points in no particular order aside from what struck me as totally ridiculous:So Nora's not her father's biological child...
but the entire plot of the first book is based on her being her father's child and having some very specific nephilim blood in her that makes her an acceptable sacrifice in exchange for Patch's soul.
I'm feeling better now.I’ve spent the last 8 hours gulping down this book.
My fingernails are bitten down, my eyes are red-rimmed, my hair is all tousled because I kept pulling it...basically, I look like a lunatic.Well, that Nora’s acting beyond stupid in this book has already been established by several readers so I will not waste my breath on this and get all worked up again.
Enough with the violence.Nora is a major pain in the ass in this book.
So, if you feel like throwing a fit for hours while reading, I'd recommend you to give Crescendo a shot.
Okay okay, so this book kept having plot twists over plot twists, I kinda liked that in the beggining, but at the end I was like: NO WAY, ANOTHER ONE? Well, that doesn't mean I don't like surprises, but this was too much to take in. EDIT: I just read the summary of the third book. WTF? She doesn't remember anything. DEAR GOD. I think this next book is going to make me want to kill someone.
It's not like it's one of the seven sins or anything.After breaking up with the epic love of her life, Nora proceeds to spend every other page whining about how Patch doesn't love her anymore and how he has the audacity to move on with her archenemy, Marcie.
Though it'd take a entire militia to protect Nora from herself because the girl is as dumb as a doornail.There's this secret Nephilim club called The Black Hand and instead using the Internet like a normal person to dig up info on it, she ponders the 5Ws endlessly in her mind: What does this have to do with my dad?
The only thing a boyfriend was good for was a shattered heart.   Well, this is a book full of drama:-teenage desperation, -lost and found love, -lies and secrets, -truths and revelations, -broken trust,-broken friendship -dream walking-mistakes from the past that haunt the futurePatch behaves like an irrational jerk:Firstly he behaves like he does not care, then he chases Nora, then he betrays her, then he invades her dreams, then he destroys her dreams, then he gives no explanations, then he
Nora behaves like a normal heartbroken teenager:Firstly she says "I love you", then she thinks it is a mistake and she tries to take it back, then she gets angry and feels used, then she tries to understand,then she pushes Patch away, then she forgives but not forgets, then she demands explanations, then she cries, then she tries to get over him, then she is lost in her other problems, then she misses him.
Naturally, she puts herself into danger because when you see your dead dad who was TRAGICALLY SHOT PERHAPS BY THE BLACK HAND, regardless that in previous times BAD ANGEL PEOPLE HAVE PUT RANDOM THOUGHTS INTO YOUR HEAD AND MADE YOU THINK SHIT WAS HAPPENING THAT WAS NOT HAPPENING, this is totally different, especially since your dead dad has got to be alive because you SEE HIM and you just KNOW this is real.She also gets, like, fallen-angel-roofied via scented apology card and chased around a library (libraries are here to remind us that NORA IS SMART N SHIT).She finds another THE BLACK HAND ring in Scott's room (because she totally thought it would be a good idea to snoop around his room even with his roid rage).
EDIT: 16/07/16JUST LEAVING THIS HEREI'll leave my original babble below.--------Awesome, fun and highly entertaining, but not as good as the first.............. I was able to guess last year what this book would be about, not hard to figure out. The execution was iffy at best. As for Patch, he disappointed me this time round *pouts*As for Nora and her need to question and doubt everything anyone does, especially Patch, this is my answer to her...........Its a good book, and I will read the next one, but, well, I think the pictures have made my POV very clear.
Whilst I could forgive a lack of plot progression, cliched sub-plots, nonsensical plot holes and characters I struggled to relate to, I could not forgive some of the characters behavior!Let's start with guardian angel, Patch.
I disliked him in the first book and struggled to see what Nora found so attractive about him.
He played with Nora's emotions, led her to believe one thing when he knew one sentence could remedy his behavior and save her from a broken heart, picked and chose when he wanted to see her and often used physical displays as opposed to emotional honesty to rectify himself to her.
Updated on 10/15/10: Group review of crescendo on Bewitched Bookworms.
Pics of tossed book & time out corner included.
http://www.bewitchedbookworms.com/201...At this moment in time, I will write a very simple review (numbered of course):1.
I threw this book a few times.
(Can you expect anything less from a book with Patch in it?)3.
Speaking of Patch: More pleeeeeeeease.
I *heart* this book.
I'm not sure that I *heart* it more than the first, BUT nonetheless (and against my better judgment) I do so love it.
why are we gluttons for punishment?) annnnnd I will write a better review with my fellow Bookworms soon.
Thusly, Patch broke my ARC cherry.
I have no idea how someone can find an absent character hot or sexy, especially when all he does is show up when Nora needs him (view spoiler)[sometimes, when it’s convenient to the plot (hide spoiler)] and offer her rides home.
When Nora tells her she doesn’t want to take Scott out, Nora’s mother can’t take no for an answer even though she doesn’t like Scott for fearing of hurting Scott’s mother’s feelings.
is this good? I have read Hush Hush but I heard mixed things about this one!
Patch was a lot more sensitive and caring this time round (as crazy as it sounds) and I don't know why so many people keep critisizing him.
Having said that, there were times when he caused her a lot of pain and acted like a jerk but in the end won me over.
It ends with a cliff hanger with a new villain on the horizon and I m dyin to read tempest to see what happens to patch, nora, Scott, marcie and vee.
She didn't even try to resolve things with Patch because whenever she'd see him she'd say the most randomly offensive thing she could think of instead of talking to him.This is basically how it goes:Nora: PATCH LIKE SRSLY, WHAT GIVESPatch: Well I-Nora: PATCH I'M ASKING YOU A QUESTIONPatch: Uhm, well like I was saying I-Nora: PATCH YOU DON'T EVEN LISTEN TO MEPatch: WatNora: OMG PATCH IT IS OVER Patch: I-Nora: ARE YOU REALLY NOT GOING TO FIGHT FOR ME AND TELL ME YOU LOVE ME AND HOLD MEPatch: I-Nora: NO STOP DIDN'T YOU HEAR ME?
All I hear from him is blah blah blah SECRET blah blah blah DANGEROUS blah blah blah I THINK I'M SUPER COOL He literally explains nothing and proceeds to not understand why Nora flips sh** on him.
It hasn't been that long since I read Hush, Hush, so I remember the characters, but what I couldn't remember was these assumptions Fitzpatrick jumped to in her angel lore.
I remember not quite buying into it, and that could be part of the problem, but whenever Norah went on whining about some angel restriction, I kept asking myself "why?" And really, Patch could go have sex with a girl that it didn't mean anything to but he was restricted from developing a loving, emotional relationship with or without touching.
I don't think I like the direction book #3 is going to take6.
I almost feel like I am reading a Completely different series that what Hush, Hush..
It doesn't even feel like they go together..
The Scott giving Norah a car at the end was far-fetched.8.
I almost hate how at the end, Patch and Norah just kiss and make up...
that should say it all coming from me :)Blek, I feel like I just wasted time on this book, which by the way was #122 for this year..maybe 150 is doable!
Nora is very annoying 😒
This makes me want to ignore the YA genre for a long, long time.Because this review is my way of venting about the book, because no one else I know will ever read it and I'm actually glad of that, I'm going to list all the things wrong with the book, starting with the characters (I'm gonna have to leave Nora and Patch out or it will never end) (also, SPOILERS from here on out):- Vee. In the first book, Vee had a boyfriend who tried to kill Nora.
Sorry, just no. This was bad. Nora's reason for breaking up with Patch, with being flirty with her mortal enemy or is it just her petty jealousy and bias toward the fact that he didn't say those three little words. The girl on girl hate is pretty terrible as well. I basically just skimmed the entire book because it was too boring. I'm not sure I'll continue with the series unless someone gives me a good reason..
In short, I hated the book, primarily because I just couldn’t believe that the author was writing a so-called love story where Patch, the designated male love interest’s abhorrent actions, including stalking, sexual harassment, borderline abuse and threats of murder, were considered okay because he was a sexy bad boy.
But the honest truth is that “Crescendo” is a huge disappointment, depressingly so.The thing that worried me from the offset in this book, one chapter in (ignoring the prologue that clumsily sets up the intrigue but really gives everything away), is the establishment of Marcie, a flat, incidental character from the first book, as Nora’s ‘nemesis.’ She is immediately set up as the polar opposite of Nora based on her promiscuous dress sense.
Nee dit is dus geen serie voor mij... Lees hier waarom:http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
WHAT WAS THAT?? That plot twist!! Rixon!! Nora's dad!! WTF. And what was that ending? After 400+ pages of the on-and-off romance, they finally made up at the end, but something got in the way again?? I'm so frustrated right now. This series is messing with my head!!Anyway, Jev is a better name than Patch and he should stick with that name instead.
Este libro fue muy distinto a Hush Hush, en ciertas partes me gusto menos, y en otras mas, pero creo que lo supero.
Luego de conocer todo este mundo, van reapareciendo temas que no se tocaron muy a fondo en el primer libro, como la muerte del padre de Nora, y eso me gusto mucho.
Por otra parte, se que en algunos sentidos se puede desconfiar de Patch, pero vamos, conocemos a Patch, conocemos como es, las cosas que hace.
