https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/343921.Medieval_Civilization_400_1500
Lucrarea este divizată între explicarea vieţii „materiale”, pe de o parte, adică a condiţiilor economice, structurilor sociale şi tehnologia şi pe de alta, a mentalităţilor, dar fără a stabili relaţii clare între aceste domenii, totuşi, corelate în opinia lui Le Goff.
„Oamenii din Evul Mediu nu au avut alt vis decât să fugă de vremea lor pentru a se refugia într-o lume de dincolo”[3], sublinia istoricul francez.
Societatea era definită în funcţie de religie, formând acea Res Publica Christiana, mai puţin decât de structuri şi relaţii sociale precum feudalismul şi aici, Le Goff se distanţa faţă de poziţia clasică a lui Marc Bloch[5].
Sözde "Karanlık" Çağ'ı farklı bir açıdan ve okunaklı bir dille anlatan hoş bir kitap. Hanife Güven'in yeni tercümelerini dört gözle bekliyoruz...
I had to read this book for my Medieval Ages class in College.
It is a very interesting book and the author aproaches the subject in a very interesting way.
To be honest, there are more light reading if you want something easy about Medieval Civilization, BUT I would be lying if I told you this is a bad book.
It isn't, it is an excelent book, specially if you are in College and studying Medieval European Society.
Le Goff knows his stuff and knows what he talks about in the book!
This is one of the most neat and friendly books I have picked up on the questions that may pop up in
Comme a dit Umberto Eco à Fontevraud (en présence de Le Goff lui-même) en 2007: "avec ce livre j'ai eu une révélation: j'ai enfin su qu'au Moyen Age, ils mangeaient des fèves." Un livre-clé pour comprendre le Moyen Age par le plus grand médiéviste français actuel.
The book provides a fascinating yet sober description of the medieval Europe. The range of topics covered by the book includes economics, politics, everyday life and culture, but for me the main object of the book is rather a "medieval spirit" in general.Interestingly, the book has many parallels with the famous "Il nome della rosa" and reveals some of the sources Umberto Eco alludes to.
Средновековие на глад, епидемии, жестокост, грубост…: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/c..."Читателят може да сметне моето описание за прекалено „мрачно“ и в противовес на това да замечтае с наслада и доверчивост на очарователния образ, внушаван от „Златната легенда“. Верятно е той да се опита да заклейми моето Средновековие на глад, епидемии, жестокост, грубост, за да върне едно Средновековие на възвишени химни, великолепни катедрали и обаятелни светци. Бих искал само тези явления, а те са изключения, да не крият от погледа му останалото, онова, което е било ежедневие."Agata-A Издателство​http://knigolandia.info/book-review/c...
Un libro muy interesante para los que, igual que yo mismo, tengan un conocimiento escaso de la historia de nuestro occidente medieval. Las cronologías se reducen a lo esencial, y permite asomarse al sabor del ambiente de un mundo extraño, un mundo oscuro obsesionado con la luz... y la comida. El tiempo, los espacios, creencias, vida material, etc...
Very good, but not easy to read, study on medieval culture. The book begins with an historical overview, but the second part - the largest - concentrates on all kinds of aspects of the medieval society and its development during its 1000 years duration.
Una excelente y sintética obra histórica sobre el medioevo...necesaria para todo aquel que siga series o sagas que intenta basarse en ese mundo.
Casi dos meses para leerlo hablan por si solos, me temo.
Originally published on my blog here in January 1999.Medieval Civilization is an examination of the Middle Ages as a culture, an attempt to get into the minds of men and women quite alien to modern thought patters yet from whom modern culture derives.Available for many years in France before being translated into English (at which point some revision was made), le Goff's work fits very much into the style of French historical writing whose best known exponent was Fernand Braudel.
I do realize that Le Goff is an Annales historian, but the last part of this work is so scattershot in its approach that I can remember few of its important points.
Also, while I appreciate the attempts of the Annales school to capture major themes of historical development over long periods of time, the problem with Le Goff's approach is that he is dealing with roughly 1000 years of history.
How can we make effective generalizations about 1000 years of time while acknowledging ongoing historical change?
Despite this book's pitfalls, it is worth a read if you are interested in medieval history.
I expected a different 'genre', a history book written for the masses and not for history buffs and/or students.
Its language is very simple; but the entire book is so detailed that it often gets boring.As a history enthusiast myself- and a future history student (ps.
i got into uni, yaaay!!)- i can appreciate it for what it is: a book meant for people tremendously interested in history.
But, since I was expecting something completely different, I skim-read most of its parts and only focused on the parts that interested me a lot, such as the position of women and children.
Took me forever, but I finally got through it.
Not because I hated it.
I'm just a lit major so I have to read everything forever, and any side reading is done when I'm about to fall asleep in bed.
It was detailed and comprehensive, and gave me a good view of the era as well as the changes that took place over the course of a thousand years.
A lot of people seem to view the Middle Ages as being homogeneous, and that all progress was arrested during this time, but this showed how the culture slowly changed over those years.
Well, I finally finished this book.
It was good overall, although some parts were better and more interesting than others.
It bordered on being an academic writing (or so it seemed), so some sections were a tad dry and a decent amount just went over my head even when I was concentrating.
There is a ton of information in this book though, so I'm sure it's one that I will pick up again in the future to see if any of it makes more sense to me (right now, a lot of the names and dates mentioned don't mean much to me because I'm not familiar with this period in time).
This is largely a cultural and economic history of the Medieval period written by a master who is genuinely excited about the subject. This is no boring tome. Le Goff guides the reader through the period with generous samplings of primary source material that are often very funny, sometimes sad and always illuminating. You can't go wrong with this book if you know some of the principle figures (i.e Frederick II, St. Louis, Joinville etc).
This book I had to read during my studies, but only some parts of book and when you do something because you must to do, you can't enjoy. Now I read the book without any pressure and I can say this is perfect book, that's the way how I would write history. This book can read everyone, it was wroten very clearly, off course there is some parts which are not easy for understanding if you are not historian, but generally this book is for everyone who wants to meet real medieval life.
Open University's Cultural History course bookThe early chapters were a nightmare because of all the lists of barbarian attacks. It just got me all dizzy and I wished he would have just told about the ones that were of great signifigance to medieval culture. Also, some of the foreign language phrases weren't even translated. Not all bad but it came across as a bit too heavy for me.
A thorough and interesting read about the Middle Ages. However, the frequent Latin quotes and occasional references to people and events that assumed the reader was familiar with them was a bit distracting.
Tarihsel dönemleri bir ders kitabı sistematiğiyle işlemek yerine, bölüm ayrımları yapmakla birlikte, roman biçimselliğiyle işleyen bir eser. Olumlu veya olumsuz bir yan olarak okuyucu adaylarının bu durumu göz önünde bulundurmasında fayda var.
Un survol intéressant de l'occident médiéval. Livre dense, il couvre plusieurs tendances qui définissent l'époque selon la compréhension actuelle de l'histoire.
Love Jacques Le Goff and this book was no disappointing at all. Great resource for History and Medieval History fans.
Handsome overview, but perhaps on many points already outdated. Remarkable short treatment of the late medieval period. A classic, typical of the Annales school, use of narrative sources and artwork.
5/5Fantastic work - interesting, gripping and thoroughly enjoyable.
Non è una lettura da spiaggia, ma per il resto vale tutto il tempo che ci si perde sopra. Un libro da non perdere
simple a must to read!
