https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73654.Logan_s_Run
In the year 2011, it is impossible to discuss the Logan's Run novel without mentioning the 1976 movie, which I believe has surpassed the original work in terms of notoriety.
While my modern tastes found the 70's movie to be rather charming, I cannot say the same for the novel.The first problem comes with the age limit.
(as a side note, the movie sets the age limit at the much more believable 30)Moreover, the novel fails to familiarize the reader with the structure and composition of the world before plowing around in it.
Did I mention that it's Logan's Run?Ok, I hate reading the book after I've seen the movie (this pretty much goes with any book-to-eventual-movie combo), but really, I vaguely even recall the movie - I remember scant parts and I think most of the parts I remember aren't even in the book and I think the other parts I remember are those refreshed by stills wedged into the middle of the book after being reprinted in '76 to promote the movie.
This was actually pretty damn good.
Definitely a good bad book, which anticipated cyberpunk the way Robert Sheckley anticipated Douglas Adams.
In Logan's world, everyone has to submit to voluntary euthanasia when they turn 21 and their palmflower goes black.
But Logan decides he'll try and find Ballard, who's 42 and has lived a double lifetime.
If it's as good as Drive, it should really be worth watching.
Though I'm disappointed to see that they've already announced one major change: people in Logan's world will be euthanased at 30, not 21 as in the book.
I read this back in the 70s. The movie appeared (not a bad science fiction movie for the day) and I ran the book down. It was better than the movie by quite a bit.This is another cold war view of the future and a fairly dark outlook. While it's not the best or the worst one I read it's a fair read.
It was the last act of his life, and no other nuclear weapon was used in the Little War. Ground zero for the bomb was the site of the Smithsonian Institute – and the resultant crater was thereafter known as Pope's Hole.
It was a remarkably dirty bomb, and for two weeks Washington was virtually uninhabitable – until the Geiger count fell low enough for observers to re-enter the city and test the atmosphere.
Winter ceased to exist in Washington.”I like a little humor in my fiction.
The novel Logan's Run was published 40 years ago & still holds up well as an entertaining piece of science fiction.
I've always liked the 1976 film version starring Michael York & Jenny Agutter & was pleased to see that there were noticeable differences between the film & the novel.
I wonder had the novel had been published today, in a world of The Hunger Games, Divergent etc, it might have been a huge hit & inspired a whole series of films & merchandise spin offs.
While I would recommend the book to any fan of science fiction I must admit that I still prefer the film.
Either that or I should dust off the DVD version I picked up for a low price and put the shiny disc into the player and cross it off my list of shame.For a long time, my excuse has been that I'd never read the book.
So, it was that I finally found myself at a point in time that I felt like it was time I should sit down and finally crack the cover of "Logan's Run." Was it worth the wait, the build-up and the hype?Yes and no.As with all books that are made into movies, it's nice to see what the authors originally intended for the world and characters to be on the printed page.
That god-awful Hunger Games series has nothing on this book.Logan's Run is set on our very own planet, but the people, to avoid overpopulation, have to die at age 21 and be replaced by younger generations. All the 21-year-olds are (view spoiler)[recycled, eaten, ewww! (hide spoiler)]. This book is intense! It gets a little choppy and drags on in some parts, but the characters were complex, the plot was original and the imagery was fantastic.
:Dživdžanzbori: Bolje od filma.
Minus one star for ubiquitous, unnamed, and unnecessary opening female point of view (third present?) Minus another for head hopping without achieving anything the main character couldn't have conveyed.
Minus a third star for being repeatedly tossed into the deep end of this world's vocabulary and left to float without a life preserver.
You'd have to self publish this if you wrote it today, because the technology is built around what the authors wanted to happen, and not what we know computers are capable of, like shutting off access to elevators and credit cards.
The Tyranny of Pleasure6 November 2012 I was wondering through a second hand book shop one day and found a book called 'Logan's Search'. I picked it up and discovered that it was the third book in the Logan trilogy, which made me realise that that really awesome movie that was made in 1975 was actually a book, and in fact the first in a trilogy. So began my quest to find a copy of the original book (as well as part two, which was easier than finding the first book, which I did eventually accompl
In a way this book (I keep on wanting to write movie because, as I have said, the movie is substantially better than the book) is very much like 1984, though unlike that novel this book has a happy ending because the blinkers are taken off of the eyes of the people and they are freed from their dystopian world to be able to think for themselves.
Simply put, by preventing people from growing old, and in fact by preventing multiple generations from being alive concurrently, the machine is able to control knowledge.
Logan is a Sandman who decides to run on his last day, teaming up with a female runner and going on an intense journey within the course of 24 hours that leads them to an underground railroad seeking Sanctuary.It reminded me a lot of the movie In Time, with regards to an artificially-set end of life for political and economic reasons.
Logan's Run was a result of the writers watching a cultural revolution take place in the late 60s, where young people changed the country, something not really seen before in America.
It took me very little time to read the tiny book, but it was quite the adventure and I would love to see them make a technologically advanced film version that actually matches the book instead of the weird 70's one.Logan's Run takes place in the not so distant future of 2116.
Logan is a Sandman who embarks on a journey, with a runner named Jessica, in his last 24 hours before his palm implant turns black.
I personally loved it, despite its flaws and give it 4 out of 5 because I wish Logan and Jessica were developed on a deeper level.
The movie works and contains the major themes of the book.
In his preface to the omnibus Logan: A Trilogy, the edition I am reading, Nolan states there are many layers to the novels, like peeling the layers of an onion.
The novel is much different from the movie.
Most important perhaps is in the book there is one domed city in a dystopian future; in the novel the entire world and its cities are involved in an advanced, if strange civilization.
Logan's Run is a quick and exciting read, I would recommend for anyone who has enjoyed the movie and to lover's of Science Fiction.
Classic science fiction doesn't always match the expectations built into the moniker.
Typically you have three elements associated with sci-fi permanence and the makings of a classic, only the first of which is specific to the genre: 1) imaginative spins on science and technology, 2) unique, memorably developed characters and 3) great writing.
Logan's Run is all but devoid of #2 and is spotty in #s 1 and 3.
While it hasn't aged as well as one might have hoped, Logan's Run is still worth reading for the quick thrills and its thought-provoking solution to overpopulation.
This is a relatively short book but so packed full of action and fast-moving that I had to keep pausing and checking back to make sure I hadn't missed anything on the way! It's also the type of book that I would like to read twice: the first time to purely enjoy it and the second time to better understand it :D.
It's a bit different from the movie version. All action, with very little character development. I definitely liked the movie better.
i just discovered a very old paperback- with pictures!- and decided i remember it too much to rate it less than three. there are some great sequences (how could i forget the robotic civil war?) and some ... not very good. i never read the sequels and have not seen the film in years (decades...) but i guess cost/running time excised some parts. goofy fun...
3,5Una distopía con un planteamiento realmente interesante y muy entretenida porque está llena de acción, pero el argumento flojea un poco y los personajes no son demasiado destacables. El final me ha gustado bastante.
The way it's written makes you wonder if humanity can be so cold in the future.
One of these killers, or 'sandmen', as they're called in the book, kills runners.
Since you can read a summary of the book above, I'll just skip to what I thought of it.
But the father Logan went on his journey, the easier it was to read.
You could see a change in Logan, and the more the book went on,the more he started wanting to live.
I think that the writing style of the book changed with Logan.
And to be honest, a little too real for comfort.
Sometimes classic science-fiction isn't as good as you hope it will be.
While a better written novel than the sequel it isn't as fun.
As pointed out by Stacey it's nothing more than a glorified chase through a exotic series of sets.
The future world of "Logan's Run" just isn't as developed as it should be.
The predictions for the future are wildly off the mark which makes the book feel very dated.
That isn't necessarily a bad thing, but for some reason it hurts "Logan's Run".
This is one case in which the movie is better.
Not a horrible book, but not all that great either.
In a society where lifespans are short to curb the population problems, a man is sent to stop those who try and run away from their fate. Only then it is his fate too and Sanctuary is looking more appealing. One of my favorite distopian books
A interesting distopian sf novel where the dead is forced at 21 years,a in this sense youth world dedicated to material pleasures but with the price of have only that years to enjoy.The movie is rather different,the dead is forced at 30 in the carusel ceremony, and so is the end.
Glad I finally read that! Very, very different than the film. Super-1960's Counter-culture artifact-ish. Think this time out I might actually like the film version better than the book.
Your life is over.But some choose to run, and that's when people like Logan 3 hunt these Runners down.
He's a Sandman.When Logan’s palm turns black, he accidentally stumbles on a Runner who tells him about Sanctuary.
And that's when Sandman becomes Runner...While the concept is interesting, it's also very disturbing to read about kids and teenagers acting like adults.
And not in a very interesting way, either.Overall, I found this SciFi novella too bland and boring in bits.
The 'love' connection was so flimsy it bordered on embarrassing.I did really like a few things: how the chapters counted down to zero, the twist near the end, and the ending itself.It wasn't great, but I'm glad I read it.
Really 2,5 stars there are some things that not persuades me overall the support of this novel for t
For this review I actually did a "Book vs Film" post which can be found in full here.Summary of my thoughts on just the book:Logan's Run delivers a fun and fast paced take on an old and time tested familiar dystopian theme of population management.
However, the story also experiences some limitations with the very reduced age of the population.
It can be hard to process a society where the entire Earth never ages beyond 21 and view them from a viable, mature and fully functioning perspective.
But the end result is still a successful story that accomplishes a large amount in a very small span of time.
Considering how much kitsch, colour and pizzazz the 70s movie version has, it was a bit of a shock to go back to it's source and find just how hollow, ordinary and downright dull it is. Faceless protagonists, lacklustre descriptions and terrible dialogue all add-up to a turkey, which gets 2 stars only because it retains a modicum of period charm.
It's easy to see why this book got picked up to become a movie. It's action from the start, and the pace never dips. The prose is spare but gets the job done; the occasional neologisms sprinkled throughout the text give it a futuristic flavor without getting as intrusive as (say) "A Clockwork Orange".Sure, the backstory setting up the dystopia is implausible, as is the eventual truth of "Sanctuary", but it's a brisk, effortless and entertaining read, and that has to count for something.
This premise falls into a specific category (sub-genre) of dystopian fiction that I refer to as dystopian hierarchical reversals, wherein the current status quo and authority have been displaced by either a minority group, the disenfranchised or by technological tools or servants (computers or robots).
In Logan's Run two such have taken control: the disenfranchised (those who are currently deemed underage or minors) and computers (which currently runs the world).
