https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6621016-the-tree
This short early tale is notable for its classical Greek setting (unique in Lovecraft) and its stylistic use of archaic inversions—the kind Yoda of Star Wars is fond of—in order to summon an antique mood.It tells the story of the esteemed scuptors Kalos and Musides, very close friends who live together, who have become rivals in the creation of a monumental statue of Tyche the Goddess of Fortune commissioned by the Tyrant of Syracuse.
Not enough evidence to prosecute, but the conclusion itself is clear.
There are two ways you can look at this story.
It can be either a story of a great friendship (it could even be more than that) between two artists that ends in the death of one or a story of revenge.
The Tyrant of Syracuse makes them compete for the job, but it doesn't end well for either of them.Whichever you choose to accept it can't be denied that the two sculptors Kalos and Musides have this profound connection that goes beyond simple friendship.
No matter how I looked at it, this is one of the saddest Lovecraft's stories I've read.Source
Solamente Lovecraft puede crear el suspenso utilizando como elementos el arte de un escultor, una tumba y un olivo.
Para ver la relación de amistad que hay entre nuestros dos protagonistas y como está puede durar hasta después de la muerte.2.
Te explica íntegramente lo enigmático del arte y como las voces de la naturaleza pueden crear un gran suspenso.3.
Es una historia muy fluida que acabas en minutos.4.
Aunque yo me quedo con el mensaje de, la magia y el misterio que encierra la muerte, se puede representar en una obra de arte.
2 1/2 creepy trees, greece, nature gods, sculptors, friendship, death. read for 7th grade english.
Racconto breve dai toni misteriosi.
This is a very sweet if sad story. One brother dies and the other never quite stops grieving. And it's all aade even sadder by the disappearance of both Musides and his great statue. It's a bit of a departure for Lovecraft at this period in his career. His stories had been terrifying and occult, but the sadness in this one sets it apart.
To be honest I'm not quite sure what I'm supposed to take from this story. It's not Lovecraft's best, at least not in my opinion, and I suppose you could interpret the symbolism of the tree a couple different ways. Apart from that it just wasn't interesting to me.
fearful, human-like olive tree . it's good but not great .. there some mystery i can't understand to Solve it .
На горі Меналус, яка височіє над Аркадією, стоїть маєток, а в ньому живуть два скульптори - Калос і Мусідес. Попри те, що вони найвеличніші скульптори свого часу, вони не борються один з одним - вони найкращі друзі. Яклсь вони дістали замовлення від тирана Сиракуз на дві статуї. Тиран сподівався, що вдвох вони об'єднають зусилля і створять чудесні витвори мистецтва, які раніше не вдавалося створити навіть їм. Та згодом Калос помирає. Виконуючи його бажання, Мусідес саджає на могилі свого товариша оливкове дерево, яке, виросши, до страху нагадує людську форму.
Enjoyable, though I'm not sure what the intended interpretation is. Given Lovecraft's bent, it's more likely that he intended a malevolent motive to the events, but I'm more inclined to a positive interpretation. (view spoiler)[I'd see it as a homoerotic love story, where the two become joined in death as well, and the person who would have divided them in competition comes away empty-handed. (hide spoiler)]
"The Tree" is an early work of Lovecraft's, and unusual in that it is set in ancient Greece and not his present day New England. Kalos and Musides, two renowned sculptors, compete against each other in a contest sponsored by the Tyrant of Syracuse. It's an interesting piece, I think, but certainly only for the completists who wish to say that they have read everything that Lovecraft wrote. Otherwise, it's a pass.
Un cuento, bastante corto, que se disfruta y se lee en cuestión de minutos. El cuento, a diferencia de lo que Lovecraft nos tiene acostumbrados, no es una historia de terror. En lo personal, lo considero, un cuento reflexivo, con ambientación de la Antigua Grecia. Cuenta con un final a interpretación de cada uno; yo pienso–esta es mi humilde opinión y nada más– que el cuento nos incita a enseñar la importancia del arte. Especialmente, el arte de la naturaleza, de la amistad y amor.
Pointless story set in ancient Greece. (Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017. Seeing Bill's review, maybe I'll try it one more time and see if I'm missing anything.)
An unusual setting for Lovecraft, this very short story has the same kind of atmospheric vagueness that characterizes most of his fiction.
A meh story about a tree that grows from a dead man's tomb.
It wasn't bad it just wasn't that great for me.
A VERY UNUSUAL BUT INTERESTING STORY ABOUT REVENGE!
6/10
A surprising departure from Lovecraft's usual style.
It's a nice story, but I'm not sure how to interpret it...
Another good story from Lovecraft. I liked the Greek setting.
Most of his work is leads you to a clear conclusion, vengance, terror, odd cosmic justice all are common themes, but not here.Friendship is evident in the story, there is not a hint of jealousy or fratricide.
Genuine concern and mourning of the sickness and loss of a close friend, followed by an outpouring of love in building a tomb.Here is the only oddity.
The dying artist asked only for olive boughs from his favorate trees to be planted by his head.
In a normal Lovecraft tale I would expect hints of buried jealousies, perhaps of poisoning or some long sinister interrelationship between the two artist.
A traveler to Mount Maenlus in Arcadia notices an olive grove and a ruined villa with a large tomb.
Among the olive grove is a particularly large, misshapen olive tree with roots growing into the tomb.
It looks almost like man, or perhaps a man’s body distorted in death.
But an old beekeeper tells the traveler a different story.
Many years before, there were two friends who were both gifted sculptors, Kalos and Musides.
After work, Musides like to go drinking.
Kalos stayed home, but sought solitude, away from even the slaves in the olive grove.
Recounting a story within a story (how meta), Lovecraft creates a narrative of this same Greek tree being noticed by two sculptors, one of which requests two of its branches to be laid upon his final resting place.
The tree is all consuming growing upon the grave of the one sculptor, while the other, haunted by the strangeness of its forms and by the loss of his friend succumbs by the fall of a branch of the same tree.
Was it ever haunted?
The tree provides beauty and the macabre through the unknown, but it fails to be anything but a curious case of fate.
An interesting tale and beautifully written, but not one of Lovecraft's best. The ending is not crystal clear, but I believe, after some contemplation, that I understand it. This is not really a spooky, horrific tale as much as a thoughtful, mysterious one with supernatural overtones. It's very brief (only four pages in my collection), so it doesn't hurt to read it when you have a few minutes.
A tale of revenge once more from Lovecraft. This time set in an ancient world where two sculptors vie for excellence, their methods disparate and seemingly at odds with each other.Not the tightest of Lovecraft's plots I've read, but still absorbing enough to make me turn the pages quickly.A slightly disappointing ending for me, I've come to expect more from him, but better than more modern efforts I've read.
One of my least favorite of Lovecraft's short stories, set in ancient Greek, featuring two very talented and mythical sculptors, that loved each other as if they were brothers or more. They are set to compete against each other, but one of the two gets sick. Things take an unexpected twist from there.
A mildly interesting tale about two renowned sculptors, seemingly the best of friends despite their different personalities and the fact that they often compete. The question left dangling throughout the story is... is this a tragic tale of friendship cut short or is it a story of revenge from beyond the grave?
This is an apparently simple folk-tale, told in a very folk-tale style through the technique of having it narrated by a simple old man within the story itself. It is a take on the classic Greek tragedies, leaving you contemplating friendship, art, tyranny, competitiveness among others - but answering no questions. A short, seemingly easy read that will stay in your mind for ages to come.
While I enjoyed seeing Lovecraft step outside of his comfort zone, I have to agree with other reviewers who have commented on the fact that there really just isn't a lot going on here. I arranged my takeaway thoughts on the story into a haiku:"What appears perfectMay have snarled roots underneathThat choke the blossoms."
