https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21111.Tregaron_s_Daughter
Cadi's got very mixed feelings about Lucian; he reminds her of a man in a mystical, recurring dream that she has of a starlit, palace-like house by the water, a man who sometimes brings her great joy in her dream, and other times terrifies her.When Cadi's father dies a couple of years later, leaving her alone in the world, Mr. Morton finds out about it and comes back to Cornwall, asking her to come live with his family.
(hide spoiler)]Tregaron's Daughter isn't as exotic as most of Madeleine Brent historical novels, with only a short part of the story taking place in Italy.
I knew nothing about this when I first read the Madeleine Brent books, and I still have a hard time believing they were written by a man!
Nevertheless, they're great reads in the gothic genre, usually set in the late 19th/early 20th century with intrepid but kind heroines, exotic locales, and a mysterious is-he-good-or-is-he-bad hero.
Perhaps because I've read Brent's other books or because this was the first one written and not quite as complex as some of the others, I knew from early on how everything would turn out, and there was no great mystery.
I recommend all of Madeleine Brent's books for romantic adventure with highly likable heroines and intriguing settings.
First book I have read by this author.
She is surprised to find out that she has an inheritance, a very large inheritance.
All kinds of adventure, mystery and suspense happen in Venice.
This book has horses, boating, a beautiful palazzo, and an old locket handed down from her Grandmother.There are many side stories and mysteries that all get wrapped up nicely in the end.
I did have the main gist of the story figured out before the end but it was still a lot of fun reading all the details and actually the suspense really made this a fun story.
As I wasn't able to get a copy of this via my library or Paperbackswap .com, I resorted to reading the Reader's Digest condensed version. I expect that my 3 star rating is a reflection of this, as the story wasn't as fluid or compelling as it probably would be in the unabridged version.Nonetheless, writer Madeleine Brent penned a nicely atmospheric story of a Cornish fisherman's daughter who finds danger and romance in the fabled city of Venice, Italy. I will certainly be on the lookout for more Brent novels in future - hopefully unabridged.
;PI might have liked this better had Cadi (the heroine) not been such an insufferable goody-two-shoes Mary Sue. This twee 19-yr-old is just so eternally pure & wholesome in her aura of charmingly provincial capabilty; she never has a bad/naughty/unkind/rude thought about anyone, she instantly charms everyone she meets (aside from one or two selfish and/or villainous asshats who are there solely to emphasize her heroic awesometude), & has no concept of money as anything worth fussing over (natch).
When this hitherto destitute orphan inherits a fortune, her first thought isn't to be grateful that she'll no longer have to live as an eternal adoptee in the cushy Morton house, or even that she can put money aside as a safety net in case Mr Morton or her Twu Wuv kick the bucket without warning.
I found the coast's menu and rough vittles to be more of an interest that anything in this book. XD I don't think this heroine ever opened her eyes long or wide enough, than to blink, in her entire life, until the hero came into town. Yawning myself to extremity.
4/5This was a decent story yet also rather disjointed and confusing leading us one way then another. Cadi was, as usual for Brent's heroines, a strong character with her own charms and strengths. I also enjoyed reading of the other related characters too as they grew in their own right. However the more occult aspects of Cadis life seemed to me while useful also inconsistent and not fully explored or explained.
I didn't love it quite as much as I ADORED Golden Urchin, but it was still very much worth reading.
Once again, Brent has also written a female protagonist who is so strong and capable, without falling back on that haughty, arrogant personality type we often find in historical fiction featuring strong women.
Tregaron's Daughter also maintains a nice balance between historical fiction, romance, and a splash of Gothic to top it all off.
Also, I read it while in Venice, and about half of the story takes place in Venice!
Contrary to what usually happens after reading a book after many years, this one certainly didn't disappoint, quite the opposite, actually, it has definitely stood the test of time.
'Tregaron's Daughter' is an excellently written story about fisherman's daughter who's life abruptly changes after her father passed away in an accident.
She is taken into a new world where she finds happiness until the discovery of her real identity puts her life in danger and has her surrounded by people who aren't what they seem.
I have really enjoyed these Madeleine Brent/Peter ODonnell books. The writer did a lot of research on the locations and cultures. They are pretty formulaic, but that is kind of what makes them good. They are all adventure stories with a little romance thrown in. They are great light, escape yarns for an afternoon read. They are kind of hard to find because they were originally published in the 70s. Despite some of the lust-in-the-dust covers they are extremely clean and even appropriate for young adults. MOonrakers Bride is my favorite of his books written under the Brent pseudo name.
The fictional, romance, mystery novel, Tregaron’s Daughter, written by Madeleine Brent, takes place in the 20th century in different parts of England and Venice, Italy.
The main character, Cadi, lives alone with her father, since her mom and Italian grandmother passed away in an accident, in a small fishing village in England.
The small fishing town of Mawstone reflected Cadi’s life as a simple, hardworking girl in a poor village but O’Donnell is able to show the sense of community in the village.
Saying Venice has an age, is personification and it makes the reader envision the setting with old buildings.Peter O’Donnell builds the characters in a way to make the reader really like them.
Tregaron's Daughter has predictable gothic story line but is an engaging read. Plus, the heroine is not a ninny.
Cadi Tregaron grew up a fisherman's daughter in Cornwall.
Educated by a tutor and her Italian grandmother, Cadi is far from ordinary and knows she's meant for greater things.
When tragedy strikes in her life, Cadi must find a new home.
In the process, she learns dangerous secrets about her family's history.Cadi is such a great heroine.
She fits perfectly into that era following Victoria's rule; she knows women are capable of more than they've been allowed in the past, but she's clear about what she doesn't know and her dependency on the men in her life.

I love Madeleine Brent's novels, and this one was no exception. The atmosphere was excellent, with Cadi being completely unsure who she could or couldn't trust, and the reader is kept guessing - though once you've read it a couple of times you of course know who to trust, but still the writing is so good that I still questioned motives a couple of times!
I read this for the first time with my sister, Erin, while we were in high school. We were camping, and we stayed up and read to each other with a flashlight. We loved it! A perfect book for the young romance reader and a great light escape book for the experienced reader.
This is a perfect example that you never know when a good book/author will fall into your lap. Author, Madeleine Brent (aka Peter O'Donnell) is wonderful! The story was engaging, the characters well written. I could not put it down. I loved it!
Can't say enough good things about this one - a new favorite!
Books truly should not be judged by their covers because if one did so, Tregaron's Daughter would surely be easily dismissed. Fortunately, I ignored the overwrought 70's blue-hued illustration which hinted at ghostly encounters and found myself plunged into an exciting well-written tale that falls into the lines of Mary Stewart, Daphne du Maurer, and DE Stevenson.Caterina is an admirable heroine of this gothic tale. Plot twists, and ample red herrings guarantee a good read.
Spirited, good-hearted heroine; lovely settings (English countryside, London and Venice); old-fashioned; light gothic romance; light suspense: these components make a lovely read to me. A girl's brave actions save the life of a man sailing in Cornwall. Her life later becomes intwined with his and his somewhat odd family, which later leads to discovering the mysterious past of her own grandmother.
My favorite book that I can remember. The story is thrilling, with so many parts that come together gracefully in the end. I am in love with this book and can't wait for time to pass so I can read it again.
I found this when searching for books like Du Maurier's Jamaica Inn. I wanted something similarly over the top but literary. This is more the former than the latter, but the prose is solid enough to scratch the itch. I'll be reading more by "Madeline Brent."
Dramatic/Gothic - not usually my style (altho lately it seems to be) but a fun read; I've been needing some easy fiction to get me going again & this did the trick.
Fun book. I’ve read his books before. They aren’t great literature, but they are fun and clean. They all have a bit of gothic mystery to them, a great heroine and fabulous settings. Just enjoyable.
This book was a delightful, gothic romp through 20th century England and Venice. Gothic novels are my favorite genre, but this was probably the most intense one I have ever read. It had all of the classic gothic traits, but the storyline was also fast- paced and thrilleresque once I got about halfway through. There was mystery, romance, murder, family secrets, and high- speed chases down the canals of Venice. I was pleasantly surprised about how well- plotted the story was... Definitely 5 stars!
I've heard a lot of good things about Madeleine Brent, so after another recommendation from dear Mom, I started.And I couldn't stop.It took me about a week to read, true, so of course I did stop a few times.
I found myself reading it late at night, because, it being the Christmas season, it's kind of difficult to find perfect silence during the day.Onto the lovely plot.
I don't find this kind of real emotion in books these days, and I really appreciate it.Most of the time, concerning plot and characterization, I didn't know what to think.
A gothic style romance set in turn of the century England and Italy. It took a while for the story to get warmed up in my opinion but I do like this authors books.
Loved it. I liked the writing style very much and the story was very interesting. Kept me guessing and the twists and reveals didn't feel contrived.
Her father dies in the sea, and she comes to live with Mr. Morton.What follows next is what one who loves to read Gothic books expects: several attempts of murder towards Cadi, who is brave as well as sensible (two virtues a Gothic heroine must have); nightmares; distrust of people, especially of the man she loves; big houses (serving staff is very important, there should be a lot of them: cook, butler, several maids, etc, etc); travel to a foreign country (in this case, beautiful Venice, which is a perfect setting for a dark story).
The final chapters, where Cadi escapes for her life, were very exciting (my heart was beating so fast!).I remember that, when I read my first book by Madeleine Brent and then found out he was a really a man, I was disappointed.
With the death of her father, Cadi Tregaron goes to live in London with the family of Morton.
She came to England and married Cadi's grandfather.
Cadi has dreams of a house which proves to be one in Vienna.
When her grandmother locket breaks, it is discovered her maiden name is the name of the family who owns that house in Vienna.
After surviving an attempt to take her life, Cadi is taken to Vienna and left there with her uncle where she soon finds herself in great danger.
Her uncle is quite a trickster but unknown to her, Lucien is an even more talented trickster.
