https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27326.The_Wall
It's a form that allows him to load the book with information, cram in as much of his research as possible - in other words it gives him the overview scope of a non-fiction book.
(Lauren Binet playfully examined the fact vs fiction conflict so brilliantly in his novel HHhH.) I recently read a real journal of the Ghetto which got me interested in the subject and one of the fascinating things about it was the profusion of untrue rumour or, in modern parlance, fake news.
I am not surprised if you have not heard of this book, but please, please read it.
It is the archives of a man named Noach Levinson who lived through the Warsaw ghetto and chronicled in minute detail his experiences and the lives of those around him.
It is both fascinating and terribly heartbreaking to see the way in which the Jews in Warsaw were systematically destroyed through the eyes of one of their own.
I have never read a book on the subject that even comes close to the depth of knowledge and feeling in The Wall.
Brilliantly written ... the part I've read so far forces the reader to feel the relentless closing of the ghetto
Author John Hersey was a Pulitzer Prize winning writer, best known for his small first person account of the aftermath of the bombing of Hiroshima, called Hiroshima.And when he writes historical fiction, as he does in The Wall, it is very close to actual events.
Based on the real documents found buried inside the destroyed Jewish ghetto of Warsaw after WWII ended, it tells the story of the Jews who were trapped there by the Nazis who took over Poland in 1939, and the escalating determination to wipe out these people by their oppressors.But The Wall also is about, not just destruction, but a determination to survive under the most harrowing of conditions.
One of the books in my pile was The Wall by John Hersey, a 640 page novel that I honestly wasn't sure I'd get around to any time soon.
The story opens with four survivors of the Warsaw ghetto finding the buried Levinson Archives.
Noach Levinson is a Jewish historian who documents life in the ghetto from 1939-1943.
The family is broken up by the "relocation" but those who are left take up arms, build bunkers, and prepare to fight back.It's all fictional, but the archives are so believable that at first I thought they were real.
When they go through the horrific events of the story, the reader will feel compelled to stay with them, and when the book ends, some readers will feel like they had to say goodbye to several good friends.
The diary style of the story is an approach that Hersey used in some other books.
It was recorded by Emmanuel Ringelblum, and it is, of course, even more horrific than this novel.
Some characters here have real-life equivalents, and not just Noach Levinson as Emmanuel Ringelblum.
I first read this book as a 16 year old almost 40 years ago. Although I have read literally thousands of books since then, this one I remember to this day. It was the book that personalized the Holocaust for me as much as, or even more than Flowers in the Attic, much as Schindlers List has done for so many more recently, and sparked a life long interest in the Jewish culture as well. I have added it to my read again list, something I rarely do.
This is written in an unusual style, as if a historian was keeping a diary of the events he witnessed in the Warsaw Ghetto, along with interviews of the inhabitants.
The preface refers to the Levinson Archives, discovered after that war.
Levinson, a recluse, finds a spirit of camaraderie and a "family" as people are forced to move into ever-closer quarters and to rely on one another for survival.
It's an unique look at the Warsaw Ghetto and I liked the diarist style.
Sometimes I wonder why we need all these new books, when there isn't time to read the old ones.
I was led to this author through Orson Scott Card who called him one of his favorite writers. Hersey's book is a powerful study of human nature and a literary depiction of the Warsaw Ghetto during World War II. One of the best WWII books I ever read.
Tremendous. Hard to read, as any novel set in the Warsaw ghetto should be. And yet I could not put it down.
One of the best and most important novels I've read.
I suggest printing a map to refer to while reading (I found a good one of the ghetto in 1942-1943 online).
Here are a few quotations, not the best of the book, just what I had a chance to copy: "To me, it makes no difference whether I am to die at the hands of Nazis or of microbes." - Goldflamm.
"There is nothing like an expensive mistake to show a man to himself." - Berson.
Several months ago I read The Zookeeper's Wife.
An ok book but what I remember about it was the work done by the Polish resistance during the Nazi occupation.
I've since read the Polish Resistance was the fourth largest army in WWII.
I wanted to read more about these people.
Did some research and read this book as I was familiar with the author from the book Hiroshima.
This is a powerful, intense and heartbreaking book.
The author created several amazing characters which I will have a hard time forgetting.
If you are interested in WWII history I very highly recommend this book.
I read this book a long time ago.
My opinion onthe Polish people has been influenceer by this book and the upcoming travel has force me to read about the Poles in the second world war.
However the Wall is a truth that haunts you and maken you want to look away and at the same time wish you were there when iTV happend.
Moments of despair and hope and as the introduction stages: the writer has focussed on the resilience of the people, not on the hopelessness of their fate.
To be read and remembered in these fatefull times.
I found this book difficult, at first, to read due to many characters/honorifics/streets/locations/ in Polish, Yiddish, Hebrew. After fighting my way past this hurdle, this book is riveting. I've read many accounts of the Warsaw ghetto uprising, but the way that Hersey presents as a day by day account adds to the realism.
An incredible book that tells the story of the Warsaw ghetto from the very beginning to the heartbreaking end. If you are interested in WWII literature, don't miss this one. It is a work of fiction that is well researched and told in a non-fiction format.
Not at all what I thought I remembered from my first reading mote than 50 years ago--almost clinical in its structure.
Excellent. Very similar to Mila 18 but this is based upon actual historic notes from people in the ghetto. Uris' book is brilliant but this book is based on real life recording of events.
They succeeded in smuggling in a number of small arms weapons which were used to resist German and Polish troops that came into the ghetto in 1943 to complete deportations of the Jews.
In the end, some few Jews escaped, often with help from Polish resistance fighters and the ghetto was largely burnt to the ground.The book, while fiction, had well defined main characters with whom readers can readily identify, making events feel real and creating empathy.
OMG! Everyone needs to read this book. It is an old, a true story. It is very important to know that although this book is a novel, it is based on true events, not loosely. Read the preface and you will see what I mean.There is an archive in existence that validates ALL of the factual information.This is a very, very important piece of history. There was also a movie and Broadway playmany years ago. The movie is still floating around out there. It did not lend itself wellto the live stage. The show closed rather quickly.
Much like the Ghetto must have been on a crisp April morning in 1942, the reader is introduced to a crowded group of characters, who, at points, seem overwhelming.
What bigger praise can be given to this piece than by saying that if not for Hersey's ("the editor") explanations in the Prologue, one might be inclined to believe in 'The Wall' as a work of non-fiction.
This is in my top ten book list of all time. I return to it often and when I read it, I feel like I'm listening to a best friend whispering quietly.
This is a fictional account of the Warsaw ghetto uprising during WWII.
This was the largest Jewish uprising against the Nazis.
The story follows a "family" of Jews thrown together by various circumstances including an archivist.
I have wondered what the Jews felt and thought as the Nazi's herded them into a ghetto surrounded by walls that the Jews themselves had built.
It is an interesting companion to The Zookeeper's Wife A War Story, which is a non-fiction book about the same time period written by a non-Jew that helped save some Warsaw Jews.
This was a strange book.
Because it is written as the archival records of Noach Levinson, there are large sections that are boring and dry.
However, some of the story is captivating and horrifying.
I cried over some characters' deaths (however, typical of the author's style throughout the novel, the author would mention thee deaths in passing, giving some less importance than the story of retrieving a pistol).
That is why this story is a 3 for me.
Periods of wonderfulness intermixed with parts so boring that I could put the book down and not think about it again for days.
This book is completely fictional, but is based on true event of the Warsaw Ghetto during WWII.
The book is written as a "journal" or "archive." Hersey worked as a journalist and his gift of journalism is evident in this fictional piece.
The format of the book takes a little getting used to, entries are not always in chronological order and they are written with some initials or abbreviations.
Once I was able to get into the style of writing, I was caught off guard by the depth and the meaning of so many little conversations or observations.

We probably all read Hiroshima in Grade School or Junior High; and while that is definitely a good book, having to read him for school may have turned you off of John Hersey. If that's the case, I urge you to reconsider, and pick up The Wall.This fictional account of the Warsaw Ghetto covers the implementation, construction, governing, and revolt; all from the perspective of journals written by a member of the central group of characters. The characters are wonderfully crafted, engaging, and beautifully crafted.I strongly recommend this book to everyone I know.
I read this book in college.
It is one of the best book about the holocaust that has been written.It takes place in Warsaw, Poland during the invasion of the Nazi's.
Forty people made a standagainst the Nazi's occupation of their city.
The book lets you into their lives and what it was like.I visited Warsaw a few years ago and found what was left of the ghetto.
There was part of the wall,that the Nazi's erected to keep the Jews separate from the rest of the population, that was stillstanding.
There were yarhziet, or memorial candles in niches in the wall.
I read the title and the author a few thousand times as this book sat on my mother's bookshelf (I grew up in a living room lined with books, a library built by my grandmother and her daughter). I finally read the book, probably 50 years later; I picked it up at a used bookstore for 2 dollars so I'd have something to read on a flight. So a great book under my nose for years and I finally read it.Phenomenal.
A pretty decent read, but nothing special. Overall, I liked this book, but there were some quirky things. It was difficult to keep characters straight for about the first 1/3, until the story really picked up in pace. The diary type writing was both interesting and distracting to me. There were very interesting moments, yet also many slow moments that caused me to force myself to focus.
This is the third time I've read this; my grandfather (an English teacher) suggested this to me when I was 7 or 8th grade, telling me, "the first 150 pages are slow, keep going. It'll be worth it." On my 3rd reading now, 16 years later, I can only say:He is right. It gets better. In fact, it gets breathtaking. Still one of my all-time favorites.
