https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16160797-the-cuckoo-s-calling
They do all, however, share the formal language style.And while I think people were silly to say things about The Casual Vacancy like "ohmigod this had, like, noooooo magic and even fewer dark lords" when Rowling clearly said it was an adult mystery book and I wanted to say to those silly people:I still think it's entirely relevant to compare the two when looking at Rowling's writing style and the reason why sometimes it works and sometimes it really doesn't.
The formal tone with simplistic language - like in Harry Potter - is okay, but dense descriptions and over-complicated sentences made it hard work and tedious in this book.
Throughout the book Strike has long conversations with many different characters.
I’d prefer Strike actively doing things to discover clues and some interesting, unexpected, or scary action.Even Robin, my favorite character, she went to Oxford to investigate something.
Like in the first paragraph, she is answering a bunch of questions about her past activity.The author used the word “had” a lot - more “telling” not showing.NO CLUES TO THE READER UNTIL THE TELL-ALL AT THE END:There are no clues until the last fourth of the book.
This was answered, but the answer didn’t feel right.SWEARING LANGUAGE:Strike has a long conversation with Evan who used the f-word every other sentence.
(B+) 79% | GoodNotes: A prototype yet to find its footing; its complex, interview-heavy plot poker-faces all clues until a bursting end reveal.
Potential television series title #21: LONDON STRIKE Alright, let’s address the hippogriff in the room: finding out that J.K. Rowling published a book under a pseudonym is something that I had I expected might happen post-Potter (and, embarrassingly, searched for), but when the question was brought up as to whether or not she'd write under one, she dismissed the idea, saying that people would quickly find out it was her (which, after reading The Casual Vacancy I concur with, as the tagline could have been "WELCOME TO DURSLEYVILLE"), so the idea was sort of debunked for me.

Both Strike and Robin, are fully fleshed out characters that we care about deeply by the end of the book.The crime Strike is asked to investigate involves a famous supermodel, who falls (or is pushed) from her balcony on a snowy, London night.
The author has created a totally realistic scenario, with London almost becoming an extra character as Strike walks the streets and a satisfactory plot with a good cast of suspects.I would say that Cormoran Strike is the best new addition to the P I genre that I have read for a long time.
Meet Cormoran's First Strike..His first 'Mystery' which haunt me from the early beginning,even the epigraph. Why were you born when the snow was falling? You should have come to the cuckoo’s calling, It starts When snow was falling..and a 'Cuckoo' fell...A famous model star fall off the balcony to her tragic death..the paparazzi gather around her body just as they did when she was alive..Her neighbor assert that she heard her arguing and shouting with a man "The Killer" right before seeing her f

A first-time author who goes by the unassuming name of Robert Galbraith comes out with a mystery novel called  The Cuckoo’s Calling . The book receives favourable reviews and is wholeheartedly accepted by the fraction of the populace that reads it.And then (and this I borrow from reliable old Wikipedia), the Sunday Times scratches it’s stubbly chin and wonders how a first-time author with a background in the army and the civilian security industry, could write such an assured debut novel. So, af
A first-time author who goes by the unassuming name of Robert Galbraith comes out with a mystery novel called 
. The book receives favourable reviews and is wholeheartedly accepted by the fraction of the populace that reads it.And then (and this I borrow from reliable old Wikipedia), the Sunday Times scratches it’s stubbly chin and wonders how a first-time author with a background in the army and the civilian security industry, could write such an assured debut novel.
Thou shalt read the new Rowling tablet.
“He had never been able to understand the assumption of intimacy fans felt with those they had never met.” I'll venture a guess that J.K.Rowling is not a stranger to this feeling. Propelled to household-name fame for her lovely gift of imagination, she gets to experience the uglier side of fans' adoration - the side that comes with suffocating hard-to-meet expectations and stifling atmosphere of demanding hype. Is it any wonder she'd look for a respite in releasing a book under a pseudonym?And
Is it any wonder she'd look for a respite in releasing a book under a pseudonym?And yet yours truly is selfishly celebrating the infamous leak of the unknown mystery writer's true identity since otherwise I would have been quite unlikely to pick up this tome given the ever-growing size of my precariously balanced to-read pile that is beginning to dangerously resemble the Leaning Tower of Pisa.Lula Landry, a supermodel, falls to her death from her balcony; the police called it a suicide, her brother feels it was foul play and hires Cormoran Strike, a bear-like ex-soldier, to investigate.
SOLID.It was a bit too long for my taste (I feel like it could have had a little less dialogue and such), but I really liked the characters! Strike and Robin all day.
Geez!) I want to read about the case and I really think that the book could have less length but I guess that when it's an author with the reputation of Rowling, they can't let to print a good book with a 300+ pages, no, it has to be 400+ or nothing.
I'm a bit puzzled by the rave reviews. It's okay, but a fairly run-of-the-mill detective story. A private eye with a silly name solves a murder mystery, and there is a long exposition at the end of the how and why. The characters are quite well drawn, and the writing is competent, but I wouldn't seek out any further books with the same star.I didn't know, when I reviewed this, that it was written by J K Rowling! But it doesn't change my view.
Did J.K Rowling out herself that she was the author of this book using a pen name or did someone else do it?
It has been wonderful to publish without hype or expectation and pure pleasure to get feedback under a different name."ANOTHER UPDATE:Goodreads you should have left J.K. Rowling's pen name author page alone, it's not that damn necessary to make sure everyone knows she wrote this.
Now you've added her name as a co-author to the book as well.
Enjoyable read! good detective work,action pact,little mysterious and some interesting storyline..the only negative about this book-the plot was slow to get into but picked up eventually..nice ending which only leads to this story continuing..can't wait to see what happen in book#2 (paperback!)
A hard-boiled mystery about the suspicious suicide of a supermodel and a curmudgeon as the detective, who delves into the underground world of the rich and famous, daring to ask questions no one else will.This was the first book I've ever...wait for it...
read by J.K. Rowling writing under a pseudonym as Robert Galbraith.
How could I have never read the Harry Potter series?
Anyhow, this was a great mystery novel.
I can't compare it to any of her other books, as I haven't read them, but if you like mysteries, especially those of the "who-dunnit" variety, you will definitely eat this one up.
It's super streamlined and reads more or less like a series of neat, orderly interviews with each of the various players in the mystery.
Even at the 11 o'clock reveal, there's never a sense of danger or serious tension, it's just the natural progression of things.
Cormoran's a decent character but I really could have done without being told 849 times how hairy he is.
It seems like Rowling goes through each of his individual body parts to describe how hairy they all are.
She's one of the best things the novel has going for it.
The Cuckoo's Calling (Cormoran Strike #1), J.K. Rowling, Robert GalbraithThe Cuckoo's Calling is a 2013 crime fiction novel by J.
It is the first novel in the Cormoran Strike series of detective novels and was followed by The Silkworm in 2014 and Career of Evil in 2015.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دهم ژوئیه سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: آوای فاخته کتاب اول؛ جی.کی رولینگ؛ مترجم: ویدا اسلامیه؛ تهران، کتابسرای تندیس؛ 1393؛ در 656 ص؛ چاپ چهارم زمستان 1394؛ شابک: 9786001821196؛ مترجم: حامدحسین دیزبند؛ تهران، نشر دامون؛سال 1393 ؛ در 214 ص؛ شابک: 9789642714377؛کتاب دوم این سری: کرم ابریشم؛ و کتاب سوم: رد پای شیطان استنخستین رمان از مجموعه داستان‌های جنایی کورمورن استرایک است؛ که به گفته ی نویسنده بیش از هفت جلد خواهد داشت.
“How could the death of someone you had never met affect you so?”I remember being utterly and absolutely excited when I heard about a new J.
K. Rowling.
London, a detective and a dead topmodel.
Yup, I was head over heels.
So naturally I ordered it rightaway and started reading as soon as it arrived.I wasn't let down.
While I remained a little skeptical about A Casual Vacancy (which in my eyes is unfairly rated - it's a great novel), I fell in love with The Cuckoo's Calling at first sight.
And while our protagonist can be a bit of a bore, Robin is my absolute favourite.
So is Mrs. Rowling.
I’m writing about a totally different book altogether and the only connection to Magical Harry P is the author.
The settings in a dark and gothic London  are so vividly written that you can feel the cold, the grayness and menace that surrounds this world of rock stars, supermodels, designers and the paparazzi.Incredible sense of place and characters that brings it and them all to life.Allright….let me just say – get this book, not because it’s a J.K. Rowling only but that it’s a great mystery read.Some quotes that I thought were great…..
16 Jul' 2013   Full confession:  Pfft yeah, I totally did grab this after I heard it was written by JK Rowling? Mostly because I hadn't even heard of this book prior to the news. But the blurb itself makes it sound like my type of novel on a cold, rainy day, regardless of the author.Look, I'd like to pretend as if I were one of those people who wouldn't give a limp banana that Rowling wrote this book. I'd love to have the same level of self-restraint to cringe my nose in disgust and walk away f
But, so help me God, I do love Rowling's every bit of written word, and I cannot keep away from her dry British humour, her morbidly fascinating characters, and the thoroughness she puts into her work.So, prigs to the left, please.***
And as Rowling does best, a note of glorified tension permeated this opening, drawing us from the very first turn of the page, into Lula Landry's tragic fate.What follows is the investigation into her death, formally written off as mental-health-induced suicide, by the most unlikely of all heroes: Cormoran Strike and his assistant, Robin.If you imagine a dashing, more contemporary version of Sherlock Holmes -- perhaps one Benedict Cumberbatch in all his dreamy-eyed glory -- you better put your panties back on because Strike is no poster-boy:
Rowling filled my childhood with magic, intrigue, and beauty with her Harry Potter series so I was eager to read her sophomore adult novel.
It angers me how Rowling was betrayed by a friend who had revealed that she was the genius behind The Cuckoo's Calling.
Another silver lining is that Rowling will be donating her royalties from The Cuckoo's Calling to charity for the next 3 years.
The mystery in The Cuckoo's Calling is well-throughout with just enough intrigue to keep me peeled to the page.
The Cuckoo's Calling is a novel worthy of immense praise.
nah
I’m speechless.
I am speechless at how bad this was.
I was more interested in Strike and Robin’s personal lives than that sorry excuse for a mystery plot.
The entire mystery/thriller (?) element of the book and the investigation process were so painfully and mind numbingly boring that not only did I forget every single character the moment they were no longer in the scene, I also seriously couldn’t care less as to who murdered the model.
I just couldn’t muster the mental fibre to give a shit.
Strike and Robin were the only saving grace of this book.
The private detective, Cormoran Strike, was created along the much too-obvious cliche-panels of the contemporary mystery genre: ex-soldier with a past & the scars of war (a missing leg), neglected child of an uncaring mother (the rock-star father is a bit of an unexpected, but good touch), at the brink of a dysfunctional relationship, who smokes & drinks.
JKR places her clues inconspicuously along with the red herrings, but you can pick them up & discover the real motive fairly early in the narrative, if not the person of the murderer.
He has a very easy repore with people and a way of getting them to talk, controlling the situation without seeming like he is controlling the situation and he was a bit of a romantic in some ways even if his own romance was completely in the toilet.Robin his new temporary secretary has always dreamed of a job like this, even if her new employer doesn’t seem excited to have her there.
Strike is a bit of a romantic isn’t he(view spoiler)[“R’bin,” he said, giving up and gazing down at her.
The supreme moment.”Oh please, thought Robin, please don’t tell me we’re having one.“An’ d’you know what ours was, R’bin, mine an’ Charlotte’s?” he said, staring into the middle distance, his unlit cigarette hanging from his hand.
SO GOOD. I literally had NO IDEA who the killer was until the very end. Jo is such a clever woman!
Coromoran is hired by Lula's adoptive brother, John Bristow, to investigate her death as he doesn't believe she committed suicide, albeit the Police do and have ruled it so.
There then follows one of the best investigations I have had the pleasure of reading, and I honestly thought I had been watching a drama on TV as the characters are so vividly described, together with the whole process of Coromoran's extremely sharp brain.
Robin is his very very likeable and extremely efficient secretary and I love her commitment to Cormoran and his failing investigative business.
The best bit for me was the characters as I loved how well they were developed and how they interacted with others, especially Cormoran Strike.The story follows Cormoran Strike, a private investigator and ex military man who has been left with a severe injury as a reminder and has to cope mentally and physically with his injury.
About a hundred pages could have been cut from this book as nothing of real significance happened and the story was long winded at times.
Towards the end, the novel became exciting and thrilling as the story finally began to unfold and things began to link together.
For me 5 stars, I stumbled on this by accident and glad I did..Strike ia a Cornish ex-military policemen, based in London, at a very low point in his life, Strike is sinking fast.
I loved his clever, sharp stubborn character, especially the prickly ebb and flow relationship with his quick witted sidekick secretary Robin.The other plus for me was the twisty, story line, I did not guess who did it at all!
was rather shocked in the end but in a good way, having just read 2 out of 3 of the Larson Millennium Trilogy our author more than holds his own.
Wonderfully paced, lovable relateable characters, and a stonking good mystery whodunit..."Proper Job" :).
Fantastic writing, wonderful characters, and a very clever & compelling mystery! Video review to come in the next few days! :)
