https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24244.The_Black_Ice
A first class thriller, combining the best of both the police procedural and the hard-boiled detective tradition. Plus--Harry Bosch is a character who grows. Nobody does this stuff better than Connelly.
It's also clear that the brass want to close the case ASAP, sweep the bad news under the rug, and limit any damage to the department's reputation.Harry is specifically ordered to stay well away from the case, and shortly thereafter his boss assigns him a pile of homicide cases that belonged to a useless detective who has suddenly quit the department.
He begs Harry to pick through the cases in an effort to solve the easiest one or two of them in time to sweeten up the stat sheet.Reluctantly, Harry begins digging into the cases only to find one homicide that crosses the trail of Calexico Moore, the dead narcotics detective.
He is abrasive, doesn't play by the rules, sets his own agendas and gets the job done!Black Ice - a derivative of the drug Ice. Manufactured in Mexico it is Ice with heroin added to give an extra kick.
Digging around he finds these cases lead directly to the suicide of his old partner and a Mexican drug cartel manufacturing Black Ice.As is Harry's way he rubs the bosses up the wrong way, chases his instincts and has a couple of inappropriate relationships too.
With Black Ice, Michael Connelly’s second outing, I got what I expected.When a week-old suicide is discovered at a rundown cheap motel, an Assistant Chief of the LAPD takes over the case even before Harry Bosch, the detective on call, can be notified.
I believe in the rule cited above: if the first is great, the second will drop off and the third will steady up and begin trending toward the quality of the first--and hopefully beyond.
I came to this book with great anticipation precisely because it was Connelly’s second outing.
Continuing on my quest for a new mystery series suitable for distraction, I hit up my librarian for the second book in Michael Connelly's famous series centering on Detective Hieronymus Bosch.
In about two minutes, Harry is warned off the case by both Internal Affairs and his boss, so of course, he's even more suspicious.
Instead of distracting him, they seem to lead him back to Cal.Alright, so that's enough of a summary to help me remember which one it is, because with a current twenty-one books in the Bosch series, it's going to be easy for both me and Connelly to get them a little confused.

Me ha encantado! Realmente Connelly sabe cómo mantener en vilo al lector, y Bosch es un personaje único; de esos que se te meten en la piel. Sin pensarlo, a por el tercer libro!!!
LAPD south of the border action.It’s hard not to like Harry Bosch as a crime fiction hero.
Surly and reclusive, a loner more than a team player, Bosch provides a modern variation of the noir crime fiction sleuth.Connelly’s 1993 thriller takes Bosch to the Mexican border towns of Calexico and Mexicali to investigate what begins as a suspicious cop’s suicide that develops into much, much more.
I was reminded of Oscar Marinez’ 2016 non-fiction novel A History of Violence: Living and Dying in Central America.Connelly’s prose is tight and the dialogue and characterization is first rate.
After nearly dying in the last book, and taking a short fishing/recuperation trip, Harry is back and ready for duty, even though, again, nobody in the LAPD seems to be ready for Bosch to be ready for duty.
I was pleasantly surprised to see Bosch eat food in this book.
I like Bosch's partners a lot, and I think that they offer a somewhat tempering force on him.
(view spoiler)[So, after a massive raid of the drug lord's compound, where they think that their main suspect, Zorrillo (the drug lord) has gotten away, Harry finds out that, plot twist!
Last year I decided I was going to re-read the Harry Bosch series in order (at my own pace), and The Black Ice is the second one from my list.
Harry ends up going across the border, but he finds far more than he bargained for while he is assessing the situation.Corruption, drugs and police politics are all called into play in The Black Ice. The investigation takes many twists and turns for Harry, but he is determined in his quest for the truth of what happened to the LAPD Detective.
He's got great instincts and needed all of them with this one as the bad guys weren't always outside of law enforcement.
We also learn a lot about Harry's background, providing some key insights about this enigmatic detective.
I've got to admit I'm starting to fall for him and I don't see that changing.
Even if I read any of the other books in the series (I don't plan to), I'd still hear his voice as Harry.
I'll be listening to the series until Connelly stops writing the books.
If you're a fan of detective stories without the gloss, then you'll like Harry, too.
If you're into Noir than this TV series is a must see.Connelly has a knack for writing suspenseful tales that take quite a few twists and turns before being resolved with a stellar Who-Done-It that has most readers guessing till the very end (at least in his earlier books).Heironymous (Harry) Bosch, the hero in this series, is named after a Renaissance painter who specialized in earthly sins, debauchery, fanciful and gruesome visions of hell, violent consequences from high above if not detailed looks at the tortures reserved for earthly residents.
[...]Compare that to the later books in the series where we find a Harry Bosch notably mellower in his older age, where we find endings easily guessed at, where procedure begins to trump a superb plot.
It seems as if you don't care for the characters at all and that even at times apply to our main detective, Harry Bosch.I really wanted to like this book but I'm not going to lie to myself.
Although I don't hate it particularly, this book makes me not want to continue reading another Harry Bosch novel for a long time.
Obviously I want him to be happy but it's going to get pretty irritating if he's going to be one of those dude who can't help but be attracted to every victim's wife or girlfriend.With the book moving at such a slow pace, many a times I wondered if it would have been better if the author wrote in another characters point of view rather than just focusing on Bosch the entire book.
Reviewed at Cross My Heart Writings & ReviewsLAPD Detective Harry Bosch strikes out on his own to investigate the apparent suicide of an narcotics officer in this twisted, gritty police procedural.
Meantime, he's assigned another officer's cases and upon closer examination, he strongly suspects that the murder and suicide cases are connected.
a situation where all is not as it seems.The Black Ice showcases Bosch's classic, hard-nosed detective character to perfection.
Connelly does an outstanding job developing this character, and I definitely want to see where he takes Bosch over the course of this series.
Michael Connelly consistently delivers exciting hard-boiled police procedural with Harry Bosch in control.
In Black Ice Bosch is cut out of an investigation of an apparent suicide of narcotics officer Calexico Moore by the bigwigs of the department.
At the same time Bosch's supervisor Pound feels compelled to increase the percentages of his homicides solved so Bosch is elected to solve some cases of an out on stress leave detective, Porter.
Harry realizes that Porter's case, his own and Moore's "suicide" are all tied together.
Connelly is always exciting and hard to put down.
For anyone unfamiliar with Connelly and Harry Bosch, read them in order.
I found The Black Ice to be a a bit disappointing.
The first is its similarity to an Alistair MacLean novel rather than sticking to the usual noir tone of the Bosch universe.
In any case, Bosch is less a detective and more of a one man demolition army in this book.The second is its reliance on an overly convoluted plot.
This affected me in a couple of ways.
And I found that even with meandering plot, I could figure out the plot as well as the ending quite a way off.
Ultimately, The Black Ice misses the oomph that exists in the Bosch universe.
Harry Bosch returns in the second in the series.[return][return]On Christmas Day, Bosch, who is on call, notices on the police scanner that a call about a dead body has been routed to Central detective dvision.
He decides to visit the scene; the body turns out to be that of a Narcotics officer, Cal Moore, with whom Bosch had been working on the death of one of his informants.
Moore's death is labelled a suicide, but there is evidence to the contrary.
[return][return]Then another officer is found dead in what seems like an unrelated murder.
All my concerns about the unnatural dialogue in  Michael Connelly's first Harry Bosch novel,  The Black Echo, are completely cleared up for his second outing. Bosch's supervisor, Pounds, has some sentences that could use some contractions to make them more natural, but he doesn't spend enough time talking for it to matter.Again, Connelly provides a twist in the end that I did not see coming, and the whole mystery was very well done. I'm looking forward to the rest of the series more now than I was after the first book.
In this book, we have Harry investigating the murder of an unidentified male who was found outside of a restaurant that is frequented by the detectives of the undercover drug unit.
During the course of the investigation, Harry realizes that there might be a connection between his murder and the suicide of Officer Calexico Moore, found dead in a hotel room over the Christmas holidays.
Reading The Black Echo and The Black Ice in quick succession really highlighted the thematic similarities between these two books - in each of them, an effort is made to use Harry Bosch's rogue nature in a way that benefits the individuals at the heart of the conspiracy.
I Liked the First Book BetterThis was a solid crime novel, book two in the Detective Harry Bosch series.But I liked the first book in the series, "The Black Echo" better.This one felt a little formulaic. Somehow, the first book in the series had more heart.A series of dead cops is showing up in LA.First, Calexico ("Cal") Moore shows up dead in a seedy motel room.It looks like a suicide. (view spoiler)[ But the autopsy raises doubts about whether the death was self-inflicted or a murder. (hide sp
Plus, another, apparently unrelated, corpse shows up.Bosch gets the case load of Porter, the perpetually drunk cop, dumped on him after Porter takes a leave for "stress".Some (or all) of the murders turn out to be related to a new drug called "Black Ice", a potent mix of heroin, PCP, and cocaine.And how is all of this connected to a campaign by the government to eradicate fruit flies in California?Bosch ends up going on a "field trip" to the twin border towns of Calexico (on the U.S. side) and Mexicali (on the Mexican side) to try to get to the bottom of the whole scenario.As usual, he defies his cowardly and self-serving superiors in the LAPD to go to Mexico, because he is driven, as they are not, to find out the truth.There's plenty of action, danger, shootings, romantic involvements, etc., the usual mix for a Bosch story.I think I'll put this series aside for awhile, as these are starting to seem too similar to me.
I prefer series in which each new book seems like a fresh departure from its predecessor.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
It was during this time that Michael Connelly introduced me to Harry Bosch.
I'm enjoying doing a re read of the series through the audio books.
However I think I get Harry Bosch.
He is obsessed with justice.
Justice.
At the end of the day I wish we had more like him.Now one other thing, it has been nice to watch him mature.
I knew it was happening but it was gradual and it became clearer upon rereading these first books.
And despite that I like the newer Bosch better, I've missed the younger renegade a little.
You'll like how all the pieces fit together in the end.
More of his personal history is revealed, in drips and drops, which I believe will continue until we know his whole history.
Fairly often, the characters seem incapable of speaking in contractions.
This would work if it were consistant, or a feature of just one character, but as it is, I find myself contracting the words as I read them.
I don’t know anyone who talks like this, much less when it’s interspersed with cop slang like “ten-four” and other abbreviations.On the whole, though, I really like reading these books.
The second book in the Harry Bosch series continues to establish it as a fine example of detective fiction. It is smart, suspenseful, and Harry makes for a complex yet relatable protagonist. My only quibble with Harry hinges on his romantic decisions. In that arena I seriously question his judgment, lol.
Book on CD read by Dick HillThe second novel in the Harry Bosch series begins with Harry on call on Christmas day.
The pace is lightning quick, the plot twists come with no warning, and the reader isn’t any more sure than Harry whom to trust.
One thing I really like about this series – and, admittedly, I’ve only read two books in the series – is that I’m getting to know Harry Bosch little by little: his childhood, his relationships, his service in Vietnam.
And I want to continue reading the series to get to know him better.Dick Hill does a great job of narrating the audio version.
He's a driven, haunted man who thinks that the ends justify the means & I don't always agree with him.
That made it both a better & worse reading experience.
I really wish he'd come up with a better solution than (view spoiler)[ calling the paper after the M.E. spilled the beans to him in bed.
He didn't even spend much time thinking, just called.
Wow. I didn't see it coming at all.Connelly certainly does a good job, though.
To that end, I put together a list of all the books in the proper order in the review of the first book of the series here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
I've read most of the later Harry Bosch books -- The Narrows through The Drop -- and while they are still entertaining and worth reading, they are just not as good as the books at the beginning of the series. Maybe detective anti-heroes are better when they aren't burdened with too much history or family, or maybe Michael Connelly just used up his most brilliant stories early on. Either way, I am looking forward to reading the next book in the series, The Concrete Blonde, and seeing how far the brilliance goes before the inevitable tail-off.
Fairly depressing, but alright if it's your cup of tea. Not for me 4 of 10 stars
He hates the bureaucrats and politicians and apathetic morons who have brought the LAPD to ruin."The Black Ice", the second Bosch book by Connelly, is a brilliant, beautiful work of literary art.
In this book, Bosch investigates what appears to be a suicide of a burn-out cop named Cal Moore.
Moore was also apparently interested in an ongoing case about a Mexican drug cartel spreading black ice, a form of cocaine laced with heroin and PCP, that was slowly gaining popularity on the streets of L.A.Against the wishes of his superiors (of course), Bosch investigates Moore's suicide.
Harry’s an individualist, and I can relate to that.This read is my third Harry Bosch book and the character is definitely growing on me.
He’s just his own man.In THE BLACK ICE, narcotics officer Calexico Moore's body is discovered Christmas night in a seedy Hollywood motel, an apparent suicide.
As the L.A. police higher-ups converge on the scene to protect the department from scandal, Harry Bosch inserts himself into the investigation.
On a side note, it was also interesting to read that the "black ice" drug was a fictional drug invented by Connelly for his novel.
Bosch is not just a loner, he's very isolated, and has been his whole life.
It's hyper-focused on Bosch and his investigation and this works very, very well.
clearly I'll just have to relisten to the entire audio at some point so I get to see what happened between the bull and the helicopter.
As part of that whole Harry-is-hyper-isolated thing, a lot of his conversations end up being over radio or phone, and they add in sound effects on those parts, which actually adds to the feel of the book.
