https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24569.The_Gangs_of_New_York
So thoroughly does Herbert Asbury embellish his facts in The Gangs of New York: An Informal History of the Underworld that things just end up becoming a muddled farce, particularly near the end of the book where the names (Blanky the Blank is the general setup for these) and the stories have piled up beyond all recognition.It sounds more fun than it actually is: a 1920s journalist recounting New York's heady, violent days in absurd exaggeration and abandon.
For a bit.But then things become a slog, really, and one gangster's colorful anecdote is indistinguishable from another's, and Asbury's preposterous assertions detract from the pretty-interesting-without-all-the-exaggeration-anyway stories.
Many of the smaller street gangs, like the Plug Uglies, Dead Rabbits, the Roach Guards and the True-Blue Americans which functioned as civic auxiliaries in parts of the city where the legitimate government had no sway or interest, joined forces with the political machine Tammany Hall, or its rivals in the anti-immigration Know-Nothing Party, for whom they rounded up voters, defended polls in sympathetic precincts and attacked the polls in hostile districts.
True Crime Commemoration # 33Setting: early nineteenth century Five Points NYC
I just love reading about the vice and crime that characterizes the history of New York especially in the time period discussed in this non-fiction book.
Starting at about 1829 and ending when the book was written in 1928, it chronicles the worst parts of town and its inhabitants; tough tough men women and children who did unspeakable things to survive.
At a time when a square mile of London's east end, the neighborhood so wrenchingly portrayed in the novels of Charles Dickens, contained 175,000 inhabitants, Now York's fourth ward had a population density of 290,000 per square mile in immigrant neighborhoods.Fun to see how mixed up the gangs were with the polititians and labor unions.
The language this was written in is also fun with things said like on page 297 when speaking of Chuck Connors…"the final nail was driven into his cross.." and when speaking of a saloon that catered to street boys who ran in juvenile gangs picking pockets and making life miserable for people….(page 225) --"saloons and dives were opened that catered solely to the street boys selling them frightful whiskey at three cents a glass and providing small girls for their amusement.." I'm not sure if that was true or an exaggeration.
DNF 50%I just couldn't continue with this book.
You'd think for a book about the history of gangs in NY, it would be really interesting, but it was so dull and dragging and there were so many commas.
One moment you're in pre-civil war next your in the late 1800s and you're to keep guessing which ear you're in until the author bothers to tell you.
Also the cycle of each chapter is the same.
This pattern was repeated over and over with the chapter that I got tired of reading it.
So tired that I've fallen asleep many times reading it.
I don't need to torture myself over this book.
Questo volume un’impostazione vera e propria non ce l’ha, i capitoli che trattano i vari argomenti sono stati composti piuttosto alla rinfusa, e anzi più di una volta alcuni paragrafi sarebbero stati maggiormente funzionali collocati in posti diversi.
Sì, seguono una certa linea temporale, ma vengono affrontati in modo tale che si sarebbero potuti organizzare in maniera decisamente più “performante”.
Il libro non è certo stato scritto con fare accademico e proprio in questa caratteristica trova il suo punto di forza.
A metà tra il saggio e la fiction, è stato un volume appassionante, ricco di episodi coloriti e di personaggi tanto temibili quanto bizzarri… realmente esistiti!
If I love a book I actually mourn it a little bit when I finish.
But, this book was written in the late 1920's so it was going to be a challenge and I didn't particularly like the film either.
I only picked it up to start my A-Z list going as the author is an 'A'.
There is some debate about how much of it was actually true and how much was fiction but I like to think of it as a historic account as it is based on newspaper reports of the time.
The Gangs of New York by Herbert Asbury, written in 1928, is a great read for those who love to read stories about crime and criminals that took place in New York City, dating back to the early 1800's. The book starts with the chapter entitled “The Cradle of the Gangs,” which was the Five Points Area in 1829. Roughly, the Five Points area was the territory bounded by Broadway, Canal Street, the Bowery and Park Row, which was formerly Chatham Street. Now this area is the home to the city prison
The Gangs of New York by Herbert Asbury, written in 1928, is a great read for those who love to read stories about crime and criminals that took place in New York City, dating back to the early 1800's.
Now this area is the home to the city prison called the Tombs, the Criminal Courts Building and the County Court House.
As the years went by, gangs came and went in the Five Points area.
If you want to get down and dirty, reading about the lives of men so despicable they were hung weekly in the courtyard of the city prison called Tombs, The Gangs of New York is the book for you.
In that strange pre-Civil War, pre-railroad, world: One-QUARTER of Manhattan's inhabitants had only RECENTLY been starving, potato-blighted subsistence peasants in southern and western Ireland, yet were now savvy, hardened urbanites -- how did these rustics become brutal city-dwellers?
Jumping ahead to the Civil War years, the most historically significant chapters concern the "Draft Riots" of 1863.
However significant the events, these chapters are unfortunately the most poorly written in the book; look elsewhere for a historically rigorous and well written account.The chapter on the Chinese tongs was interesting, but its accuracy can't be assured.
I had seen the Movie when it came out in theaters and I was so so-so happy with it.
I was So happy with the Info, The History, The PEOPLE!!!!!
I know violence is a part of both but it was so different but the same.
But old time "Gangsters" they were into Crime, Violence, Status, And some actually making it and being wealthy!!!!
I was just so happy to see all of this great info on such a important part of history that is known about but not known in depth.
if you enjoy the movie Gangs of New York, Historical, PEOPLE OF THAT TIME!!!!
If there is a fault in Asbury's account (which he styles an "informal history of the New York underworld") is that while the linkages between the political corruption of Tammany Hall that encouraged, protected and promoted the gangs are outlined, it is somewhat sparse and subjective, without the clear connections that linked money, property, immigrant votes, protection rackets and other vices to the political structure of the city and the nascent NYPD.Realistically the book culminates with the Draft Riots in 1863, which saw more than 2,000 people killed during a week-long riot that ravaged New York (That's the same number of Union forces that died at Antietam (or Sharpsburg, if you are from the South), one of the bloodiest battles of the Civil War).
I think I love this book so much because its yet another bit of evidence that humans have always be sublimely f'd up and perverse, and criers of declining morality and vices of the twentieth century have no idea what they're talking about.
I also love it for it's great antique voice, that lets you know "THIS WAS WRITTEN LONG AGO".
(Warning: antique voice means that antique casual racism is included as well, which honestly really isn't quite as delightful at ALL).I also also love it for being better then the movie of the same name in every possible way (except maybe Daniel Day Lewis) and for also being true!
Julian DeBitetto Mr. Hart English III 12/10/2018 Gangs of New York  The book Gangs of New York is about a man named Amsterdam Vallon and the story of his life. In the beginning of the movie he is a young boy in a scene that follows his father’s death after Bill Cutting stabs him while fighting over the five points which is the neighborhood he had lived in as a child. The neighborhood was notoriously known for its gang violence (gangs fighting to control the five points). After his father is kill
In the beginning of the movie he is a young boy in a scene that follows his father’s death after Bill Cutting stabs him while fighting over the five points which is the neighborhood he had lived in as a child.
The neighborhood was notoriously known for its gang violence (gangs fighting to control the five points).
Later, he begins to like this girl named Jenny, who Johnny is in love with.
While he’s at the five points, draft riots begin to occur and turned into an extreme fight.
its ok, pretty detailed history. sometimes overly detailed.
Fun but not totally accurate of that era.
The foreword to this edition, fittingly enough, is actually the Borges essay.Asbury wrote several books collecting sensational crime stories (the others focus on Chicago, New Orleans, and San Francisco).
(I haven't read the others but I assume the fact that New York is the oldest and most populous of the cities covered accounts for a lot.) Asbury attempts to give some historical background, but tends to dwell on the most sensational events and does not shed much light on the "why"s of the gangs.
These tales of violence and depravity are interesting to read, but since most of the figures appear for only a few pages at a time and there is a certain feeling of repetition to the stories of gangland grudges and police crackdowns, the book lacks a certain momentum.Oddly, the most interesting section wasn't really about gangs at all.
There are a few chapters in the middle about the draft riots of 1863, a several day period when the citizens of New York, scared of conscription and angry at the rich who could buy their way out of the draft, looted much of and almost burnt down the entire city in a giant riot during the middle of the Civil War. Thousands died and most of the police force was injured or incapacitated.
There's a long tradition in New York of looking back on bygone periods of mind-bogglingly dangerous violent crime with a sort of wistful, carefree nostalgia.
Occasionally the text degenerates into lists of gang names, ridiculous underworld sobriquets, and catalogs of weaponry that start out fun and then glaze your eyes over, and there's plenty of casual 1920's bigotry sprinkled throughout (those sneaky, sneaky China-men), but, you know, all in good fun.
When reading a book written some time ago, it's important to remember that standards and tastes may have been different back then.
It's entirely possible (in this case, likely) that this book was considered eminently readable when it was published in 1927, but today's readers might find it somewhat more difficult.Asbury presents us with a dizzying array of names of people (real names, pseudonyms, and nicknames) and places (modern and historical), barely pausing for breath, let alone meaningful distinction among them (I lost count of the number of gangsters described as "huge").
And each one is more sensationalistic than the last, making me wonder where Asbury got his information from.
VERY DETAILED look at the underworld of NYC from the 1850's to the 1920's, with a focus mainly on the Five Points & Bowery area.
This book was published in 1923; so a good amount of the material occurred within the memories of those still living.
The writing is a little more formal than what I'm generally used to; and the massive amount of material was overwhelming at times.
Definitely a scholarly work vs.
Still worth the work in reading, though.
Bill the Butcher, The Dead Rabbits and the Civil War draft riots are mentioned, but they really flushed out a story for the fictional film.Wow, how horrid and seedy NYC was from the mid-19th century to the first World War!
The tenements sound like absolute hell on earth.
Apparently muggers and "gangsters" got a crack at anyone who wandered into their neighborhoods, and knew politicians would most likely bail them out.
I'm surprised there isn't more "romantic" underground fictionalizing from this era, where the police were barely organized, the politicians were blatantly corrupt and The City was one big crime college of cons, beatings and debauchery.Now if anyone needs me I'll be over there at the Faro table...
This book tells the stories of 19th century gangs or crews in New York City.
My favorite part about the book is when they tel you about secret gambling houses.
Gambling houses were getting shut down so people were creating these very quiet places where people could gamble.
I think what worked was how they collaborated everything that happend like the riots, gambling houses and the head of a militia gang being arrested into one book.
And lastly it was a great boo to learn about what happened in the 19th century New York City and how it was a horrible place to live.
It certainly provides a window on a unstable period of the great city when gangs ran rampant....and ran local politics as well.
But it didn't have a flow of narrative; it felt almost disconnected and therefore, I couldn't concentrate on it.
I put it down several times and would pick it up later but just couldn't stay with it for any length of time.
However, there were sections of excellent detail and insight into the inner workings of the society and hierarchy of the gangs.
But other sections seemed to drag on forever.One thing is certain ..........it was better than the film!!!!
There are only so many times an author can introduce you to the baddest dude in New York city before it all starts running together.
It's basically just a list of all these crazy guys and what they were known for, but sprinkled in are some great stories about how crazy Manhattan was in the 1800's.
It also provides a lot of great rebuttals to bring up to people who say today's society is less civilized than in times past.
For pretty much all of the 1800's 75% of Manhattan was off limits unless you were keen on having your head smashed and all your money taken.
This has lots of interesting facts and tidbits about underworld New York in the nineteenth (and a little bit of late eighteenth and early twentieth) century, but it's a litany of disconnected names, places, and events with very little exposition to provide unifying themes or conclusions other than that everyday life was squalorous and brutal, and the officials were as corrupt as the criminals. After a while the list of bad behaviors gets tedious.
An odd book. Purporting to be the history of New York gangs in the1800s, it’s far too credulous to tales of giant men who carried dray horses through The Bowery. And as such what should be a gripping guide to a lost city, feels more like inconsequential gossip.A mediocre book, which ultimately became a mediocre film.
A fascinating overview of 19th century gangs written from an early 20th century perspective. If these gangsters had put even half the effort into legitimate businesses that they put into coining bizarre nicknames (Chick Tricker, Slobbery Jim, Kid Dropper, One Lung Curran, Ludwig the Bloodsucker, etc.) they would have been as rich as Rockefeller.
gangs of New York is an excellent book, it is very interesting because the world of the gangs is so exiting.
Not worth spending another minute reading.
