https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129636.The_Moon_Is_Always_Female
Some I felt the need to speak out aloud, I wanted to hear the words not just read them.
Very impressive.An excerpt from the title poem -"A woman is screaming and I hear her.A woman is bleeding and I see herbleeding from the mouth, the womb, the breastsin a fountain of dark blood of dismaldaily tedious sorrow quite palatableto the taste of the mighty and taken for grantedthat the bread of domesticity be bakedof our flesh, that the hearth be builtof our bones of animals kept for meat and milk,that we open and lie under and weep.I want to say over the names of my motherslike the stones of a path I am climbingrock by slippery rock into the mists.Never even at knife point have I wantedor been willing to be or become a man.I want only to be myself and free".
Written at the start of the middle of Piercy's career, The Moon Is Always Female includes some of her strongest poems and many of her most meditative. The two-part collection refines the rawness of much of the poet's early work, dialing down its fury a bit and more carefully moving from image to image, poem to poem. It also develops the interest in Jewish identity, rituals, and faith that would come to define Piercy's verse as she aged.

Nearly every time I've gone to the bookstore, I've ended up with this book.
That statement--the absoluteness--was wholly seductive, wholly haunting.So, instead of buying it, I siphoned bits of its beauty, year after year.
When I'd open it after not having seen it for weeks or months at a time, every word was more final.
With just a few words, I'd get full and leave full, like the moon.
But it almost felt wrong, buying it--stealing the moon away like that.
maybe it's really been waiting for me this whole time.
That's the stuff. So much wisdom and beauty here, and so much... recognition of the way life really is, if you're a woman, anyway. Favorites: "The Inside Chance" and (for more than 20 years now, and probably forever) "Right to Life."
The rating would actually be a 2.5 as the imagery is good. I really expected to love this collection but it was just too focused on the negative and it brought me down. My favourite poetry brings me to a quiet place of thinking and pondering but this brought me to a place of despair and that is not a collection that I am going to keep in my possession and visit again.

I came across this book at random at a local used book store.
Instead, I found myself moved by the first poem I read.
I repeated that twice more before realizing that if I didn't buy the volume, I was going to sit myself down right there and read it in the store.
I took a long time to read this.
I enjoyed being able to give each poem as much time and attention as it needed.
I don' think this would be everybody's cup of tea, but I found it powerful, moving, and a joy to read.
Took me a while to warm up to this collection, but it did finally pick up speed. I love the abortion poems, especially those about the clinic workers. It makes the issue real by linking it to real people who don't have any medical stake in what's going on---they're just doing their jobs. Piercy's feminist tone is back again but softened in the decades after To Be of Use. Still love her, though!
a strong woman is... that poem alone helped me through a tough mental period, i turn to it every time that i feel that stress coming on again or when i see an other strong woman losing their footing on the world
A rich book of often feminist poetry. There's a reason this is a classic - there are some excellent poems here and very few weak ones. It's hard to pick a favourite, but here is the first stanza of 'For the young who want to', a poem to which I think I'll be returning: "Talent is what they say/ you have after the novel/ is published and favorably/ reviewed. Beforehand what/ you have is a tedious/ delusion, a hobby like knitting."
The title poem is one I've long loved and will continue to do so. I'd return to ten or so of the other poems in the collection. While many contain fine, surprising lines, there is a tendency to err on the overtly rhetorical side, which lessens the overall grace.
“I want to say the names of my mothers like the stones of a path I am climbingrock by slippery rock into the mists. Never even at knife point have I wantedor been willing to be or become a man. I want only to be myself and free.”
The poems are fantastic. I felt like we were soulmates.
If someone gives you a Marge Piercy book, it might be because they love you. If you find yourself welling up with tears with each passing page, it might be because you love them back. Thank you, Nammy.
I wept, I smiled. This book is such a treasure.
4.5
DNF @ 47/115.Not my taste.
This is a truly remarkable collection. Several were astoundingly well-crafted poems.
One of the most important pieces of women's literature ever. Also essential for anyone who is squirming in this WTF nightmare political climate.This baby should be flying off the shelves again.
Holy fuck dude. Gamechanger.
My absolute favorite book of poetry!
I have a mis-printed edition. The poems end on page 135 with a note on the type--and then restart on page 103. So I have 31 duplicate pages at the end of the book.
Probably my favorite book of poem, esp. the first portion of poems around everyday life.
Some good lines but it reads like sentences than poetry.
(The poem was "To Have Without Holding.") I picked up The Moon is Always Female because of the many times my friend S/E has mentioned it as one of her favorites.
It's the kind of collection that it's nice to leave out where you can pick it up and randomly re-read a poem or two when the mood strikes you.
"For the young who want to" is one of my favorite poems (by any poet) and I never tire of re-reading it.
Talent / is an invention like phlogiston / after the fact of fire.
You have to / like it better than being loved."
Piercy has some great moments like Listening becomes eavesdropping and theybegin to feel my silence like a horse in the diningroom.
Gradually as I sitmy hair mats.
Feathers stick up fromit, crow and eagle.
My cheeks breakout into painted zigzag designs.
Hair breaks throughthe back of my hands.
In another momentI will swing by my long prehensile tail from the crystal chandeliershitting in the soup.(from Excursions, Incursions)and great lines likeLove is plunging into darkness toward a place that may exist.
(from Night Flight) *and*I feel my weakness summoning melike a bed of soft grey ashesI might crawl into.
(from The Longest Night)
I like the collection generally, but some of the poems in the book struck me as dated.
I much preferred the selections in "Hand Games" to "The Lunar Cycle." If that makes me less a feminist, so be it.
(Maybe it's just that I'm beyond menopause.) My favorite poetry is verse to which I return over and over.
I'll keep this in the bookshelf, but it's not likely I'll return to it anytime soon.
Some memorable snippets:"Every love has its season, its cultural artifacts...""I am on vacation ...
from the fatty broth of my life.""I am my mother's daughter, a small woman of large longings.

Very few of these poems really speak to me, but those that do-do so profoundly. It isn't that I find Piercy's "wear it on your sleeve" feminism off-putting, but I certainly don't find it moving or engagine. I am not her natural reader, I think. I can, however, recognize that the uses the same techniques in the poems that do not register with me as she does in the poems that do. Result: I will read her again and invite others to give Piercy a try.
