https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769896.Poland

In fact, type in your search engine "books set in or about Poland" and be prepared to be not surprised.So what did Michener teach me?
Well, the country of Poland and its people have been at the centre of a lot of conflict through the centuries.
As he states in his foreword, he travelled to Poland eight times and traced the steps of his characters and consulted many historians and collections.
Secondly, I felt that all characters no matter what period of time or century were the same-whether fictional or real suffered the dialogue came across as stilted and repetitive.
I remembered the three layers of Polish society that Michener portrays as a constant throughout the eight centuries that are covered -- the pragmatic but usually self-centered upper nobility, the more romantic but perhaps more selfish gentry, and the serfs, who are taken completely for granted by their masters while steadfastly serving as the country's greatest resource.Reading Poland's long tale of woe, I thought of Arnold Toynbee's ironic quote, "History is something unpleasant that happens to other people.
The first four chapters represent essentially the entirety of Polish history: "From the East," "West," "North," "South," discussing the events and effects of the invasions of Poland (or just Eastern Europe in general) by the Tatars in the 1240s, the Teutonic Knights in 1410, the Swedish Protestants in the 1650s, and the Turkish attempt to capture Vienna, famously defeated by the Polish King Jan Sobieski in 1683.
All of the historical set up in the book builds up to two main events: the Partition, and "The Terror," describing World War II in Poland.
Fantastic book! Being of Polish heritage I found this book to be especially good. I would recommend this one.
First Michener I've read. Interesting setting and history, wide in scope. Covers a lot of ground.
As a bestseller, the 1984 Corgi edition of this novel retailed at NZ$9.95.
In a miniscule way, by comparison, I’m providing a little snapshot of the history of NZ’s Campbell Island in my next novel “Island of Regrets”.That aside, I had to recommend “Poland” to readers, who have not yet discovered it, as a great read that will keep you enthralled from start to finish.With such a history, it is amazing that any Poles survived let alone, as the book blurb says, with an “unconquered heart”.
The novel “reveals this spirit in all its drama and tragedy”.
This book is more less the history of Poland and the Polish people and their neighbor and it was well written by the author hence no dull moment... The author is a Genius hence I gave it to 4 Star.
Michener paints a thorough picture of the events that have shaped Poland, and clearly establishes the boundaries between history and fiction before the novel begins.
A thousand years of history are cleverly presented through tracing families through their generations, which adds to the reader's understanding of the depth of Poland's history.The novel sparks the imagination, and ignites an insatiable desire to discover Poland's heroic greatness - the heroism that its beloved pianist, Frederic Chopin, achieved in his nationalistic music.This historical fiction is also significant for the bits of wisdom about the unfolding of history and about the shaping of character.
After reading this book (one of the few books I bother owning & storing on my shelf), I read the rest of Michener's historical novels.
And it doesn't go too deeply into the mumbo jumbo lovey stuff like (a la "Days of Our Lives") but just the basic way of life from each generation, and how it affects future generations.This style also got me hoocked on Edward Rutherfurd ("Russka" and "Sarum", for example), after which I ran out of "interesting" historical novels to read & had to find another genre.
An epic historical novel that encompasses Poland as the battleground of Europe from the Mongol Invasions of the 13th century to the soviet backed Polish People's Republic in the 20th century.
Michener includes aspects of Polish culture including pierogies, the mazurka and the horsemanship of the landed elites.
Michener places three fictional families at the centre of events, the aristocratic Lubonskis, the petty gentry Bukowskis and the peasant Buks.
I was in Poland about 20 years ago, hanging out with two Polish friends, one of whom spoke three languages fluently, the other, five.
This was just a few years after the collapse of the Soviet Union and its decades of oppression in the region, so this seemed entirely reasonable."What type of jokes do you make in the US?" they asked "Who do you make fun of?""Um .
But Michener manages to develop the nation of Poland itself as a single character.
If you enjoy the absence of subtext, disastrously bad sentences, and descriptions that make a list of technical specifications read like poetry, you will love Michener's writing.
The only way I can process and enjoy what I've just read is to believe that it's 100% accurate as history, and allow me to parrot back plot points as if I have taken a Polish history course.
Reading those pages ever again might very well be enough to drive me mad.)The more important point is: I can now discuss in rudimentary detail seven or eight important periods of Polish history with my in-laws.
WOW !
I haven't read a Michener novel in years but he still delivers the goods for me.
Virtually all I know about the histories of Hawaai, South Africa, Afghanistan, and now, Poland I learned reading Michener.
I even learned things I didn't know about the history of my home state of Texas from reading his novel, "Texas." "Poland" covers the history of Poland from the the 13th century to the 1980s.
I had no idea of the adversity faced by Poland down through the years.
In fact, by the end of the 18th century there was no Poland.
You’ll have to decide for yourself whether that is just me or if the book is missing some human ingredient binding these disparate stories together (other than obvious genetics within the families).The first four eras demonstrate how Poland was constantly under threat from four geographical areas, even titled after the four cardinal directions.
The good news is that the account of the Battle of Grunwald (Tannenberg) was extremely interesting but it seemed to this reader that the families through which the book was woven together had taken an extreme back seat to these historic events—although the battle scenes do demonstrate that Michener wasn’t afraid to kill off named characters as some authors hesitate to do.The third era covered the threat from the north.
I thought I would never make it through the first 100 pages, but I am glad I stuck with it. This book is so well-researched, and so real. Once I got through the first 100 pages, which I felt went slowly, and into the war, and the struggle of it all, wow. Just wow. This book was incredible. No spoilers here, there is too much to say. I am so glad to have read this one. Exceptional.
This was my first "real Michener" - one of the long, serious books that covers centuries in an area's history.
One problem I had is that Poland's history is frankly depressing.
Frankly if Michener had invented Poland's politics I would have thought it ridiculous.
What kind of country insists on electing only foreigners for kings?
Still, these features pale compared to the constant destruction of the country by it's neighbors.
Still, there's a lot of fascinating history and some good story telling in this book, if the reader can persist.
Yikes.It spans 800 years of history, which is ambitious to say the least, and I feel like Michener just couldn't pull it off.It felt like he wanted to tell the history of Poland without actually referencing, you know, sources, so he made it fiction and created a fictional area on the Vistula so he really didn't have to be accurate at all.Even that would have been fine if it were overpowered by fantastic, compelling characters, but the character development was nearly nonexistent.
I love historical fiction, and all I wanted was some good fictional characters to hook me into a very general overview of Polish history.
This book failed to deliver in so many ways.These characters are barely even 2-dimensional; they speak nothing but stilted expositionese; they are not memorable or distinguishable from one another by anything even vaguely resembling personality; since I put it down a couple of weeks ago I struggle to name even one.The style, such as it is, is confusing.
Sometimes it behaves like a history book, sometimes it lectures you about politics or political philosophy, sometimes the 'characters' lecture each other, and at others it weirdly drops into theatre dialogue.
What’s missing here is the strong line that writers of thick sagas usually draw through their books; Michener took several thousand years of Israeli history and drew that line through The Source; he connects hundreds of years of families in Centennial and Hawaii.
But here, he missed the mark.
What definitely redeems the book and makes it most interesting is Michener’s prescience about the fates of Poland, Russia and the Eastern Bloc.
He’s not some sort of psychic, but he still completely describes Reagan’s plan to end the Cold War and hints at what was coming soon for Russia - all of this in 1983.
Through a series of chapter-long vignettes, each of which takes place at a different point in history yet involves the same series of families, Michener captures both the nation's long history and the unique pressures from which it has suffered -- both from enemies without and conflicts within its social classes.
His use research is phenomenal, describing a Tatar charge and a Chopin mazurka with equal skill and grace, and the simple repetition of his structure does not prevent him from investing his characters with humanity.
The novel made me happy to be a reader, and proud to be Polish.
When the battle is over, he starts to rebuild'' several times in this documentary novel about the history of Poland, and it easily encapsulates the theme.
Even a cursory glimpse of its history leaves one incredulous that the country exists today; lacking natural borders and hampered for centuries by the ruling class of feudal magnates who fought against a centralized government and too often owed their allegiances to the foreign powers who supplied them with wealth and power, Poland continually suffered invasion (Tartars ...
Indeed, the Poles know how to rebuild, and how to flourish a culture steeped in an appreciation of education, music, the arts, love of the land, and freedom.
“How cruel are the repetitions of History.”This is my first novel by Michener and It did not disappoint.
I have Polish heritage and the epic story he created to explain Polish history from 1200 to 1983 was amazing.
It pulled at my heart strings and was so rich with Polish history.
The names and places are hard to pronounce but I just used Google Translate.At one point I even looked up and listened to all the composers and pieces he was using in the story to get a sense of being in the room with everybody and to hear what they were hearing.
Anyone who wants to know the roots of many of the conflicts swirling in Eastern Europe would find "Poland" fascinating.A secondary but important note that I wanted to make about James Michener's books about history is the way that his story line differs from history textbooks, for example.
There was mention of religion in history in our classes, but my understanding is that public schools are less and less likely to even discuss religion in their history classes.
We, as a society and as educated people are truly lying to ourselves if we think we can understand history without religion.
Poland is nothing like Michener's other books.
On first reading both books, I thought that there was no way that the same person could have written both books in the same year.
Now I'm not convinced that he wrote either book and its caused me to re-evaluate the authority of his whole bookshelf.
Michener's name was a huge selling point in a booming publishing industry in the early 1980s.
Maybe that's why they suck after all.So, who really wrote Michener's Poland?
Michener does a good job of pointing out that what is good for one class [nobles] may be very bad for another class [tradesmen or farmers or craftsmen].I sense that Michener romanticizes in particular the violent episodes.
On the other hand, when Jill and I were in Poland we got the distinct impression that a lot of Poles still today romanticize the violent episodes of their past, and have plenty of military heroes.Poland has indefensible borders [except the mountains along the southern border with Czech.].
So Russians and Germans or Prussians kept taking huge chunks of what today is called Poland.
This was often heavy going but perseverance always wins the day with Michenerbecause he is always so
Really interesting book about Polish history spanning centuries.
Makes you in turn marvel at the stupidity of the Polish magnates, shake your head at strange occurrences and wonder why you never heard about such important events in European history before.
Very good and obviously well-researched book.However, one should have a fairly good knowledge about European history in general beforehand.
It makes the book seem heavily biased and containing a US-American point of view rather than the objective historical account it otherwise tries to be.
The bishop realizes that what the younger man has wanted to ask was 'How did we gain the courage?" The bishop says: "Character is the sum of all we do before the age of twenty.
You did certain things in those formative years which made you brave and durable." The bishop goes on to tell what he did in his formative years that determined his character and made him able to withstand the abuse of Auschwitz.
Children will gain character in their formative years, which I think goes on until 20 years of age.
All of James Michener's books are amazing.
I have only reread a handful of books in my life and this was one of them.
In 1989, I had the opportunity to visit Cracow, Poland and I saw how hard life was for the people.
I imagine much has changed for the better.
Michener truly seemed to capture the essence of Poland, how it clung to the only thing that kept it united as a nation, its history.
While its borders would shift, change, and often disappear, it maintained its identity as a nation through its collective memories from the past.
