https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/626362.The_Wilt_Alternative
No pude parar de reír con el momento manga pastelera.
E o Inspector Flint está de volta, depois de quase ter sido levado à loucura pela honestidade brutal de Wilt no livro anterior, e desta vez tem alguma satisfação, para além da frustração normal que a natureza do estranho casal Wilt provoca em toda a gente.Pode parecer suficientemente mau quando Wilt tem um encontro perigoso com uma roseira e os seus espinhos, mas este acontecimento é o prelúdio de uma sinfonia de loucura.
A única forma de apreciar o humor de Tom Sharpe é lendo os seus livros, mas uma coisa é certa, ele sabe jogar com o seu enredo melhor do que ninguém.
I think I may have outgrown Tom Sharpe. Funny - yes. But wanted to finish so I could turn to something more nutritious. Perhaps I was in the wrong frame of mind.
Re-reading after many years. This follow on from the first book in the series, Wilt, is just as funny and delivers some genuine belly laughs from Tom Sharpe's usual high farce. Having read it before (several times!) I knew what was coming but Sharpe's style ensures it remains fresh, witty and humorous - the joy is in the delivery, not just the content.
While some may say it is in the same vein as Wilt, this has the quads playing a fantastic supporting role. (And why not if Sharpe hits gold every time?) I have yet to erase the image of Wilt impersonating the People's Alternative Army. The joy of fucking with anti-terrorist squads. A tour de farce. And all I can say is : MORE.
Tom Sharpe never disappoints! Funny, good sense of humour and always manage to place Wilt in a crazy and awkward situation. Preferred the first one, but nevertheless I give it 5 stars for all the laugh attacks I had on my way to work!
I do not find other people’s misfortunes funny.
I do not find one incident involving bad luck (i.e. unfortunate timing) followed by another, then another, funny.
[a woman asking Wilt about enrolling on a Rapid Reading course]’My problem has always been that I’m such a slow reader I can’t remember what the beginning of the book was about by the time I’ve finished it,’ said the woman.
‘My husband says I’m practically illiterate.She smiled forlornly and implied a breaking marriage which Wilt could save by encouraging her to spend her Monday evenings away from home and the rest of the week reading books rapidly.
Después del primer libro de la serie, que me pareció de lo más divertido que he leído, supuse complicado llegar a ese nivel con la continuación, y así me lo ha parecido. La historia es aún más absurda que la primera, pero con menos gracia. Como entretenimiento no está mal. Se lee rápido, y se dispara contra todo: religión, modas, snobs, educación.. Se echan de menos las charlas de Wilt con el inspector de policía o con sus alumnos, que eran una risa total. No está mal, pero tampoco es imprescindible.
Hysterical, unbelievable unfolding of events. Superb economy of prose in some spots: Inspector Flint retreated behind the sofa. "That is most certainly Mrs. Eva Wilt," he cried. (I'm paraphrasing here.)
so funny, i cried
Even better than the first book.
Not as good as the first in the series. About halfway through it got slightly far fetched, and to be honest I just wanted to finish it to get it out of the way.
Not as good as the first one but not terrible either. The last chapters are the worst, but there's a laugh here and there. I might read the next one in the series some day.
Anything I say about the actual book will spoil it, so I can't comment much on that front, other than to say if you want to read something funny, something that will occassionally even make you quite literally laugh, or at the very least chuckle, out loud...
If Tom Sharpe makes fun of wives and marriage, it's a joke.
The great thing about Tom Sharpe is he insults all of his characters.
read them unless you're a kid, basically.
D.) You take jokes as actual insults against your beliefs (kind of the same as B, C, and A really).
Wilt is a middle aged man who aspires to a life of peace and tranquility and yet constantly finds himself amidst chaos - admittedly some of his own making.
As a result he is subjected to various painful and unrelated procedures by insensitive health providers.
As a result the reader gets a glimpse into a National Health Service that values bureaucracy over the well-being of its patients and believes that dignity is an archaic concept best forgotten in the name of efficiency.
Tom Sharpe has a number of targets for his wit among then being progressive education, new-age fads from the 1970s, terrorists and government bureaucracies.
Y pese a ser consciente de que es la segunda entrega de la saga de Wilt sin haberme leído previamente el primero, lo he cogido con ganas.Se puede leer perfectamente sin haber conocido el primero, ya que la trama se abre y se cierra perfectamente y, en algunos momentos, pone en antecedentes de hechos ocurridos en el primer libro.Pero la sensación que me ha quedado tras su lectura ha sido un poco fría.
Quizá porque no ha envejecido del todo bien pese a que no hay chistes de la actualidad en la que se escribió hace casi 40 años.
he's a funny man is old Wilt
Another one In the same vein as the first instalment. Hilarious comedic gold. Can’t wait to read the next book in the series.
So funny!
Cam slăbuță, cel mai probabil din cauza traducerii. Prea multe trimiteri la chestii erudite; nu toți suntem așa de documentați cu privire la mișcările teroriste din anii '80 din UK. :-P
Hilarious as always. Some of his phrases are truly unforgettable! Much of the book is laugh out loud humour.
Witty and absolute delight to read. Looking forward to read the next installment.
It's an incredible read.
In the story Wilt is same old mellacholic self, despite fact he lives in much bigger house and has "quads".
The story starts off with Wilt self loathing himself in beer after discovering a teacher in his depatment had made a student make love to toy crocodile.
This followed by the bad news that his wife Eva wilt has rented the attic out at top of house to a irmgrad muller or gurdan schautz if you like, who turns out to be one of Britain most dangerous terriosts.
Eva is back as well, and in this 2nd Wilt book, the couple have been blessed with issue.
Bewildered as ever, Henry grasps for some sanity in his upside down world, and the only solution the beleaguered Department Head can come up with is to fall madly in love with the coed renting the apartment upstairs.
However, nothing is easy in Wilt’s world, especially once word gets out that the coed is also an international terrorist.
Filled with the usual Sharpe wit his readers have come to expect, this 2nd Wilt entry will make you laugh out loud at turns and cheer the stalwart Eva on.
Henry Wilt's life never seems to go quite right. Even though he's now head of liberal studies at his college, it gives him even more headaches than when he was a teacher because now he not only has to deal with crude students, but raving revolutionary instructors as well. His home life isn't much better. At his wife Eva's insistence, they now life in a great pile of a house where Eva can give full vent to her current enthusiasm for alternative living while their quadruplet daughters only become more horrifying as they grow older. Read more
Wilt n'aime pas les femmes, ni son boulot, ni d'ailleurs tout ce qui se met entre lui, sa bière et son pub.
Mais voilà, il n'a pas encore réussi à se débarrasser d'Eva, sa chère épouse.
Le destin lui a même joué un sacré tour.
Alors Wilt se jette à corps perdu dans le travail.
Suite à cette désaffection paternelle, Eva embauche Irmgard, une jeune fille au pair.
Wilt, d'abord réticent à l'idée d'en avoir une sixième sur le dos, change vite d'avis lorsqu'il rencontre cette Allemande qui ne manque ni de charme, ni d'esprit.
Wilt, the main character, is a somewhat listless academic. He's the head of his department, but doesn't really have the authority to do anything. He's riddled with anxieties and has all sorts of misadventures based on miscommunication and some poor decision making. I imagine if Don DeLillo wrote a comedy it would turn out a lot like this.I read it because my dad had it kicking around the house. It was funny, but not hilarious; enjoyable, but not good enough for me to go searching for more of his stuff.
Tom Sharpe's first book about Henry Wilt, simply called Wilt, was so funny that I was disappointed in the second saga. As usual nothing is easy in Wilt’s world, especially once it gets out that the coed is also an international terrorist. I don’t enjoy novels where the protagonist an unlikeable jerk. It’s hard to like him, although his long suffering wife Eva has a force of character that steals the show. For your own sake, read this only if you're a Sharpe fanatic.
Tenía las expectativas muy altas con este libro, pero sabía que "Wilt" iba a ser muy difícil de superar y así ha sido. Sin embargo, he vuelto a disfrutar de las desventuras de esta familia tan peculiar, de la escritura de Sharpe, de los nuevos personajes, sobre todo de las cuatrillizas; y espero que las próximas locuras de Henry y Eva se mantengan en este nivel, "¡Ánimo, Wilt!"
