https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/440463.The_Gutenberg_Galaxy
It was one of those books where you understand all the words, but ultimately have no idea what the sentence they form actually says.It doesn't help that McLuhan made extensive use of quotations from his source material.
That was what really made me realize that if nothing I'm reading means anything to me, there's simply no point in continuing.One thing I did find interesting is that, contrary to what Nicholas Ostler said about how writing systems have never changed speech patterns, McLuhan states directly, "writing affects speech directly, not only in its accidence and syntax, but also its enunciation and social uses." (48)Anyway, I tried this, and found that I barely understood anything in it, so I'm leaving it.
Clearly a work of illumination and like a polished multi-faceted crystal something you can turn around in your hand to try to see more of its brilliance and its light, the reader will derive a sense of the measure of the ratio that has been lost/superseded by what McLuhan refers to as "visual stress" in the outering by the homogenizing technology of print of one of the senses, that is, the gaining of fixed perspective for the price of losing the collective conscious.
It exemplifies its own outering, of course, by this same book's printed form.
Basically what McLuhan argues in his book is that the invention and diffusion of Gutenberg's printing process marked the passage from a balanced kind of linguistic communication - where each sense was taken account of - to a tiranny of its visual component.
I must say, though, it did have some really interesting and diverse links that I enjoyed a great deal: the final Pope quote was a treat.One last thing.
This mosaic pattern is an attempt to cover the vast subject with meaningful quotes from different areas of study, using the quotes to provide examples of how typography changed humankind’s perception of things, altering the relation with understanding and the world at large — making of the whole of humanity a uniform entity.
As stated before, the subject matter, being a galaxy of consequences, it’s simply too overwhelming to be completely grasped.
This book is also good to direct your attention the work of Harold Innis that provides much more insight into this theme of information technology, media shaping and history making.
This was a fun and inspiring book, and there were points at which I would have considered just giving it five stars despite some of its obvious flaws and the fact that it is quite dated.
I'm not arguing for sticking to authorial intention, but good literary critics can sell the reader on some of the outrageous interpretations that they produce.
For someone with close ties to the discipline of literary criticism, he seems to have an especially hard time with it.Overall, I loved the book and am now equipped with a list of other authors to check out.

This is my first book-length foray into the world of Marshall McLuhan, and I feel very torn about this book. While it seems reductionist at points (setting up a number of not-necessarily-true binary oppositions), it seems to pretty much "get it right." I agree with his main statement that we are all "typographic people," and I think this is a good lead-in to further studies in media.
McLuhan is to information what a centrifuge is to salad: you're going to see the same quotes and the same analogies and the same aphorisms pass by in slightly different contexts to stress slightly different things. This time around, there's less focus on literary criticism and more on general philosophical and scientific advances.
I think McLuhan has not aged very well and wonder about his relevance to media studies today. The scholars he quotes and then misinterprerates are at times more interesting than his own ideas.
The printing press created mass ideology. True enough.
A fun book with plenty of food for thought, but not intellectually honest enough for its format.Reminded me a little of Julian Jaynes' Bicameral Mind book at first, when McLuhan was trying to make an argument about visual/aural cultures---not because of any similarity in the theories but because it was simultaneously unconvincing and fascinating.
But as McLuhan went on, I grew bored of his sorting things into whatever category justified his previous argument, however little sense it made.
Lots of interesting tidbits.
Lots of tiring western white male centricism.
Doesn't come together into a grand theory after all, so lacks punch and purpose.
I love how this book is divided into sections on the different effects the printing press had on society; that makes it far easier to find information for research. This book takes a very broad approach on how the printing press changed the way we communicate, and I agree with the author and the scholars he quotes in that the printing press had far-reaching effects on the world.
In this new age, humankind will move from individualism and fragmentation to a collective identity, with a "tribal base." McLuhan's coinage for this new social organization is the global village, a term which has predominantly negative connotations in The Gutenberg Galaxy (a fact lost on its later popularizers):Instead of tending towards a vast Alexandrian library the world has become a computer, an electronic brain, exactly as an infantile piece of science fiction.
A work of insurmountable genius.
Cat despre satul global intr-o perspectiva anticipativa din anii ’60 ai secolului al XX-leaa cand s-a scris cartea el descrie conceptual lumea ce traieste cu si prin regulile unei comunicari in masa, ale carei uzine, tehnologii, industrii mediatice comportand folosirea mai multor canale de comunicatie, acel mass-media si care are emitator in cine construieste si receptor colectiv populatia, separata taxonomic prin diversele clase de interes pe care indivizii le au, intrand asadar in acest joc al vietuirii ce nu poate comporta lipsa informatiei.
He was able to have the foresight to see how different technologies would effect culture as a whole.
Here is the guy who coined the phrase "global village" in the '60s in reference to what he thought the effect of electronic technology would have on the world.
Here's the guy who predicted (again, in the '60s) that color TV would have a great impact on sports viewing, in particular snow-related activities that are more visceral (X-Games, anyone?).
Here's the guy who predicted electronics would allow tribal, third-world countries to leap into the 20th century, without having the cultural development leading up to it, thereby remaining tribal (Middle East, anyone?).
Uno tiene la sensación al zambullirse en las páginas del libro que MacLuhan salta de tema sin previo aviso, conecta temas para luego desdoblarlos y no volver a ellos y cita, hasta el límite del paroxismo, con el objetivo de encontrar apoyo en la autoridad donde sus argumentos parecen no bastar.
Si a eso se le añade la capacidad endiablada en sus explicaciones para hacerse entender pero, al mismo tiempo, manteniendo en una bruma espesa los lugares a que dichas explicaciones han de llevarle, la lectura del presente volumen puede convertirse en una verdadera tortura.
Totally brilliant.
The idea that civilization has been made captive of the processes uncovered by printed phonetic language...
But is a totally plausible diagnosis of causes of contemporary commoner alienation and elite tyranny.
His ideas need to be brought up back into social discussion to raise awareness and start the process of evolving human consciousness from an adolescent technological tyrant civilization to an adult egalitarian sustainable society.
I have had enough of the 1% casting down behavioral edicts of obedience that were spawned by the technology of the printed word which is now to me identifiable as the culprit.
It is also part of the cure as can be voiced here, in phonetic print.
Evolve.
"Галактика Гутенберга" - легендарная работа канадского литературоведа, социолога и культуролога, знаменитого "пророка из Торонто", овеянного славой глашатая электронной эры, метафоры которого вошли в повседневный язык, став элементом классификации мира, - Г.М.Маклюэна.
В ней он, прибегая к мозаичному, чресполосному подходу к современной цивилизации, утверждает, что решающим фактором процесса формирования конкретной социально-экономической системы, а, по сути дела, двигателем исторического прогресса выступает смена технологий, влекущая за собой смену способа коммуникации.Маклюэн убежден в том, что создание новых технических средств, доступных обществу, носит революционный характер.
От алфавита и письма к печатному станку, а затем и к электронным средствам коммуникации - таков путь развития цивилизации.
Every moment of its consciousness is an act of translation of each of these cultures into the other."Die Gutenbergdruckereien haben zweihundert Jahre lang kaum etwas anderes veroeffentlicht als die mittelalterlichen Handschriften.
Die Leserschaft vorher fragte nach den alten Texten in handlicherer Form, neue Autoren haetten einfach keine Kundschaft gehabt.Zunaechst wurden die Bibel, Gebetsbuecher und erbauende Literatur wie etwa Heiligenlegenden in grosser Zahl gedruckt und der allmaehlich steigenden Leserschaft zur Verfuegung gestellt.
Vergleichbar dem Vorgang zu Beginn der Digitalisierung, als ( allerdings neben dem gleichzeitigen Entstehen originaerer Inhalte) eine Vielzahl analoger Inhalte (Fotos, Gemaelde, (Print)Buecher, Vezeichnisse) gescanned und in Datenbanken abgelegt wurden.
The basic syntactical unit of the book is the two page micro essay and there are no clear chapter/subject divisions.
But at around 100 pages things start to come together and McLuhan's commentary on the implications of movable type and the book as commodity(and the role of the written word in the articulation of nations, sophisticated economies, globalism, etc) becomes compelling.
And, in general, it seems like you have to know McLuhan if you want to think about the impact of a particular media on culture.
Which is what a whole shitload of people are doing now with the whole digital humanities thing.
Gutenberg - and this particular text - is probably most famous for his phrase: "The medium is the message." Although dated and a bit dry, this book is a must-read for anyone interested in the effects of technology (in this case the printing press) on society.
The takeaway for me was that text is itself a technology - and that the method of communication is indeed equally important to the semantic meaning of the message itself.
Should be read with Walter Ong's Orality and Literacy: The Technologizing of the Word.
Either completely brilliant or total hogwash, I'm not qualified to say.
Sometimes McLuhan sounds like he's simply wandered off on some flight of fancy, and his tendency to being in Shakespeare, Milton, or Blake as proof of his assertions ("Here in King Lear you can see how Shakespeare was discussing the ways in which print liquifies our sense of geographical and personal boundaries!") is baffling at times.
But for all the fluidity and scatteredness of his style, there's no doubting he's expressing some very interesting things.
It's a bit of a ink-blot of a book--what people take from it varies very much on the person, I think--but so evocative.
I didn't follow everything in the book, but I did get a lot of ideas.
I originally got interested in this book when the World Wide Web was beginning.
Although McLuhan wrote in 1960, what he saw about the electronic age beginning with the telegraph, radio, film, and TV has continued and intensified with the Internet.
This book helped me see a lot of my assumptions about the way the world is based on print culture, and helped me appreciate some seemingly silly Internet trends as more meaningful as new ways of thinking and communicating.
I'm enjoying this book a great deal so far.
Written by a Canadian scholar and published by the University of Toronto Press.Book Description: "Since its first appearance in 1962, the impact of The Gutenberg Galaxy has been felt around the world.
It gave us the concept of the global village; that phrase has now been translated, along with the rest of the book, into twelve languages, from Japanese to Serbo-Croat.
It helped establish Marshall McLuhan as the original 'media guru.' More than 200,000 copies are in print.
The reissue of this landmark book reflects the continuing importance of McLuhan's work for contemporary readers."
Review completo en: https://atcupcakeland.wordpress.com/2...Siendo sincera...pensé que iba a ser peor. La verdad es que no era tan críptico como esperaba y algunas ideas son interesantes. Sin embargo, me molestó muchísimo la arrogancia y pretensión de superioridad intelectual de este hombre. Te habla de conceptos de Aristoteles, Weber, entre otros sin mencionar que son los conceptos de esos autores, dificultando la lectura para quienes no están familiarizados con ellos.No lo recomiendo, pero me imagino que muchos lo leen por obligación en la universidad (como yo).
Dans la Galaxie de Gutenberg Marshall McLuhan presente sa grande these que ce n'est pas le contenu du message mais son medium (presse ecrite, television, radio, etc.) qui est le facteur determinant dans le resultat du message. Dans ce livre McLuhan essaie de demontrer que l'invention de la presse par Gutenberg a donne naissance au rationalisme, au dualisme, a la standardisation, et a l'uniformisation culturelle a l'echelle planetaire. La these presente dans ce livre resiste bien a toutes les attaquies depuis deja plus qu'un demi-siècle.
An astonishing book, a dry one, about the effects of the Gutenberg press, a device that shocked the church, brought about new religions, started wars and changed the human race. In different sections, the Greeks complain that more books will make readers lazy. Readers won't have to memorize a book because the presence of more books will make that unnecessary. In other sections, the author talks about the fact that Balinese plays, not books, teach the Balinese what is right and wrong.
As with all of his works, this one, as well as "Understanding Media, The Extensions of Man", had a huge impact on me. They're not the easiest books to read, but they will give you a new appreciation of just how important experience retrieval is; which is to say the major means of how we store and retrieve experience over time has a tremendous impact on how we think of, and see, the world around us.
Read all the way through this a couple of times and just had it sitting around and picked it up to read random spots. Lots of great ideas about antique perspectives. Got me into don quixote. Its really impossible to talk about McLuhan without sounding trite. If you don't catch on right away just by every McLuhan book and listen to every McLuhan recording on ubuweb and watch Videodrome and eventually you'll be sucked in by his ideas and dialectic and you'll never be the same.
