https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39338911-the-virgin-in-the-ice
I read it some time ago but somehow neglected to share my deep and insightful views with everyone here at Goodreads.How remiss of me.If you are familiar with Cadfael and his "history" then you know that our monkish mystery solver is never allowed a peaceful life for long.
That said murder is also still a factor in Cadfael's life.As always we have a good mystery here with a nice "chunk" of history thrown in to boot.
I suppose it's like more seasoning on a good steak....I can recommend this one as I can most of the other Cadfael books for mystery and historical fiction fans.Enjoy.
I'm not doing plot spoilers. Instead I want to talk about Ellis Peters' impeccable ear for dialogue, and the way she evokes her period with seeming effortlessness. There are also wonderful characterisation and intricately woven plot lines.If you have never attempted a Cadfael story, now would be a good time to take the plunge.
My favorite so far - absolutely loved it.
Firmly set in the history and geography of twelfth-century England, these tales dig into the always-current dirt of humanity and find both gold and dross.
“It would have been an insult to repent of having loved a woman like Mariam.”Here the series takes a decidedly personal turn with the lives of Cadfael and Hugh Beringar becoming part of the warp of future tales.“Youth destroyed for a folly.
(Mystery was close on this one.)Cadfael series: excellent historical fiction.
Ellis Peters draws the reader into the twelfth century with modern story telling but holds us there with a richness of detail which evokes a time and place which might as well be fictional.
This is one of my favourite of the Brother Cadfael series.
Peters has her story well in hand again.
At no time does she seem to 'phone her book in' as so many authors with a long running series and established reputation tend to do.
(I speak here specifically of the "Cat Who..." series.)Reading Peters led me to research into the Stephen/Matilda battle for the crown.
It is a fascinating time in history.
England had nothing but civil wars for so much of its early history.
Peters manages the difficult feat of coming down on neither side and letting Cadfael generate understanding for both.
Confession: This is my absolute favorite Brother Cadfael story!
Ellis Peters actually lived in Shrewsbury, England, where Cadfael's monastery of St. Peter and Paul can still be visited.
You really do feel as though you are in that long-lost world lit only by fire, where it's quiet and green and life moves at a pace most people can be happy in.Cadfael is a suitably complex man.
He's from Wales, but now living in England (though Wales is not very far away).
He's lived a full life, now he wants to be quiet.
Brother Cadfael is called to Bromfield Priory to care for a visiting brother, victim of a brutal attack by a band of marauders roaming the countryside.
He also seeks the whereabouts of a sister and brother of noble birth who fled their village to find refuge in Shrewsbury, but never arrived.
When Cadfael finds the body of a young woman frozen in the ice at the edge of a stream, it's the beginning of an investigation that will force him (and Hugh Beringar) out in the dead of winter to track the murderer and find the missing children.
The ending is very satisfying and includes a personal revelation for Brother Cadfael.
I enjoyed this one more than the other two I've read, but I still guessed the murderer and surprise ending well in advance of the reveals. I've just read too much. What I did enjoy was the "voice" of the book, the dialog, and the beautiful descriptions of the countryside under snow. I find myself getting these books as a palette cleanser. They are fun, fast reads and this one does not disappoint.
But this is indeed one of the best ones, and is the one I would recommend to anyone who wished to read just one Brother Cadfael mystery.In November of the Year of our Lord 1139, word comes to the Abbey of the sack of the town of Worcester.
The story opens with the sub-prior from Worcester's Abbey visiting Shrewsbury in search of Ermina and Yves Hugonin, two siblings of a well-connected family who had been in that Abbey's care.
It comes out that Ermina, 13 year old Yves, and Sister Hilaria had safely made it as far a Blomfield and Brother Elyas was added to their party to escort them on to Shrewsbury.
Now, the good brother is near death and the other three are missing.What follows is a complicated dance of people found, lost, found again--it would almost be a farce, if the stakes weren't so high.
While for much of the novel it it feels more a historical fiction thriller than mystery, Peters bring the story around very nicely and finds a very Cadfaelian mystery: a tragic injustice that is overlooked in the chaos of the age that only Cadfael can unravel.
This essentially frees him from the confines of the Benedictine order and Cadfael can act and do whatever he wants.
However, I hope that removing Cadfael from the Abbey so he may act more freely is not a device that Peters employs more frequently as the series continues.
Peters has created a lot of enjoyable and memorable characters, and they keep coming back!
While the enjoyment of the story might be slightly less if you haven't read the other books, it could still be enjoyed by a newcomer to the series.
For those in the midst of the series, though, all the major characters (including Cadfael) get some personal development.
If we would take credit for all the misfortunes and evil acts of the world, we would be laboring under the great sin of pride, and trying to deprive God of his rightful role as the judge of all.
Another fine installment in the Cadfael saga. This one is set outside the normal setting of Shrewsbury. This has always been one of my favorite epiosde from the PBS television series but is better in printed form. As usual the storyline for the TV adaptation is simpler and not as rich and where Ms. Peters uses new characters freely the TV series recycles some of the cast regulars.
In the Sixth Chronicle of Brother Cadfael, The Virgin in the Ice, it is the winter of 1139. This chronicle is one of the first ones I read and still a favorite. Three refugees of the feud between Maud and Stephen are missing. While Brother Cadfael is on another mission, he discovers clues to the fate of the missing travellers.
Enjoyable re-read of an old favourite.
Another excellent entry in the Cadfael series. This one was perhaps a bit more harrowing than others, but it allowed the goodness at the center to shine through all the more (and honestly, was probably more realistic for the 12th century as well).There were several excellent twists, including the personal one for Cadfael himself, that leave me looking forward to the next books in the series.
Probably one of the best so far in the series as it brought a certain reality to the period along with more connections to Cadfael’s past. There was also more action to this plot that livened things up for the series..
It wasn't until the last chapter that I understood the importance of this book.
These books hold together; to get the most from them they must be read as a group.
I do not agree with those who say this series need not be read in order.
However start with book two and read the rest in order.
Narration by Vanessa Benjamin was in my view not as good as narration by Johanna Ward (alias Kate Reading) or Stephen Thorne.*********************BEFORE READING:Previously, I have listened to the abridged version at BBC and disliked it, but since I know now I like the series, I will listen instead to the unabridged audiobook.
No. 6 in the Brother Caedfel series.[return][return]In the late fall of 1139, the civil war between King Stephen and the Empress Maude for the throne of England flares up and engulfs the city of Worcester which lies close to the Welsh border and not far south of Shrewsbury.
To the abbey comes a messenger from a brother house in Worcester, seeking the whereabouts of two children of a noble family, Ermina and her younger brother Yves Hugonin.
[return][return]Brother Caedfel becomes involved when he is summoned to the abbey at Bromfeld, where a monk, who has been beaten nearly to death by brigands, turns out to have a connection with the sought-for Hugonins.
This is another fine entry in Ellis Peters' acclaimed "Cadfael Chronicles." In this book, Brother Cadfael is drawn into the adventure of three young people seeking refuge from a fresh outbreak of the war between forces loyal to the Empress Matilda and those of King Stephen as the cousins vie for supremacy in England.
There is also the introduction of a character who will reappear later in the series; one who is quite significant in Cadfael's life.My one quibble is that this is yet another Cadfael mystery in which the foolhardy actions of young lovers and children provide the initial impetus for the story and several turns along the way.

Summoned to tend a badly injured monk, Cadfael stumbles on clues regarding a missing brother and sister, and the young nun who fled with them when war came to Worcestershire. Meanwhile the countryside is beset by pillagers who burn and steal, rape and murder. As always there is a secondary story involving romance, and the best twist of the story comes here. Moments towards the end of the book were beautiful enough to make me cry a little. Another 5 star gem by Ellis Peters.
Have I mentioned that I really enjoy the Brother Cadfael novels? He is man and martyr, sleuth and simple man. This novel finds him tending a monk who had been badly beaten on the road, left for dead. As expected, this is just the tip of the iceberg and Cadfael's quiet persistence brings all the truth to the fore, even things that were a surprise to him.
There was some awkward phrasing in this book, but I am glad I finally tracked it down since it does include an important puzzle piece with regard to life of Cadfael. While I may have grimaced a time or two while reading, I did end up with a big smile.
Quite complex with all of the characters constantly appearing and running off, but their actions made more sense at the 'big reveal'
I won't spoil it but I rated this one higher than the others...which I love...because of Cadfael's discovery of what he'd left behind in Antitoch!!!! Was so excited. *big smiles*
another great medieval who-dunnit.
Well, he hd known them to crop up in cottage, no less than in castle, in croft and toft, and among the soil-bound villein families too." And Yves: "All the arrogant pride of all the feudal house of Anjou and England in this small package." Slippery and with their own motivations, Yves and Ermina evade Cadfael, Hugh, and Brother Elyas.
As soon as Yves is rescued, he follows haunted Elyas into the night blizzard just as Ermina is retrieved.Yves falls foul of the marauding outlaws which have burned and pillages several villages under the cover of weather and darkness.
Three of the refugees a young, noble sister and brother and a nun have disappeared into the snowy English countryside of 1139.As with all the books I’ve read in this series there are many threads to follow.
Cadfael even has something personally important that he didn’t expect or look for revealed to him.The more I read of this series, the more impressed I become of Peters dexterous weaving of multiple story threads and her creation of a new cast of thousands for each book.
I know that many mystery series operate like this but I think she does a particularly good job of creating new characters that are distinct and believable.
This sixth Cadfael novel breaks the mold set by the first five, but offers an experience that is not as delightful as its predecessors did.
I found some of the situations a tad simple, as if they were inserted to enable characters to do foolish things such as running away.Not a great mystery by any yardstick, but still nice to read due to the writing style and the prime protagonist, Father Cadfael.
The sliver of specialness that comes at the end deserved a better story, I thought.But do read it if you like Cadfael novels.
