https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/586852.The_Wall
Dead, but hard to know of what disease or hostile deed.It all seems like a bad joke but there’s no explanation to what happened.
And there’s something strangely calming and quieting in these simple deeds, in growing potates and bean, in logging wood, cutting the grass, haymaking, preparing stuff for winter.
We don’t need any apocalypse for we are already divided and we keep building our walls without restraints.
And that way The Wall feels like a critique of our acceptance of loosening interpersonal relationship and moral relaxation, like a statement that maybe world that lack love doesen't deserve to exist.
A female Robinson Crusoe finds herself as a castaway in a lonely dystopian forest, and an invisible wall blocks her from the rest of humanity, which has mysteriously turned into stone sculptures, - an absurd reversed Pygmalion creation act.
She struggles and enjoys her life, and when danger lurks, it is bizarrely from the single other human being that resides inside the invisible wall - a symbolical truth of human destruction and construction, existing side by side.The story is eloquently and convincingly told, recommended to dystopian Robinson fans who don't mind skipping the fast-paced action of conventional science fiction.
I finished reading the book yesterday, but I still can’t stop thinking about the heroine, Lynx the dog, the cat, Pearl the kitten, Tiger the tomcat, Panther his brother, Bella the cow, Bull her son – they haunt me in my dreams in gentle ways.I have read some wonderful books this year but I have no hesitation in saying this – ‘The Wall’ is my favourite read of the year.
Book2moviechallenge 201212/12 Ein Film der 2012 aus einer Literaturvorlage veröffentlicht wird Buch 5 Sterne Eines jener Bücher, das mich beim erstmaligen Lesen vor mehr als 10 Jahren am meisten beeindruckt und gleichzeitig extrem verstört hat.
Fazit Sprachlich und inhaltlich ist das Buch ein Hit!Film 5+ Sterne Der Film ist wirklich die perfekte optische Umsetzung eines an sich schon fabelhaften Werkes und setzt mit seinen beeindruckenden Bildern der Natur des Salzkammergutes qualitativ dem Buch noch die Krone auf.
Sowohl die Idylle als auch die Bedrohlichlichkeit, die Einsamkeit der Natur wurde mit Bildern perfekt inszeniert und interpretiert.
Θεωρώ πως η παράθεσή τους δεν προδίδει κάτι από την πλοκή της ιστορίας αλλά αποτελεί το πρελούδιο των όσων πρόκειται να ακολουθήσουν, μια βολική αφορμή και όχι μια ουσιώδη αιτία για να ξεκινήσει η συγγραφέας τη διήγησή της, ωστόσο θα τις κρύψω στα spoiler, γιατί μπορεί κάποιος να μη θέλει να γνωρίζει τίποτα για την υπόθεση του έργου:(view spoiler)["Όταν έφτασα στο τέρμα της χαράδρας άκουσα τον Λύγκα (σσ ο σκύλος της ηρωίδας) να ουρλιάζει από τον πόνο και το ξάφνιασμα.
It is beyond me why this novel is classified a feminist classic as it holds up as something great no matter whose sex wrote it.
Marlen Haushofer writes in an engaging style, conversing with the reader as if on solid ground and friendly terms, tolerant at all times for the fate she has been faced with, and in my eyes kindly hoping that we might do the same, given similar circumstances.
This book is as good as any I have read, and so accessible that it caused me no care to look a word up or write one down.
My animals were fond of my familiar smell, my voice and my movements. I could easily cast off my face; it was needed no longer. At this thought a feeling of emptiness rose up in me, which I had to get rid of at any price. I looked for some kind of work to do, and told myself that in my situation it was childish to mourn a face, but the tormenting sense that I had lost something important would not be driven away. Virginia Woolf once called Middlemarch one of the few novels that had been written
Emotion is far more concerned with internal erasure than external pride and prejudice, and the foraging homicide, the one man survival kit, the hero, all of them were caught on the wrong side of the wall.
You could build a fire and scope out a surviving community and stab and rape your way to the top of the rule of their roost, but what if you can't.
[I]f time exists only in my head, and I'm the last human being, it will end with my death.
But there was Lynx with his bleeding mouth, and there was the bump on my head, which was beginning to ache.When our narrator was invited by her cousin Luise and Hugo to go and stay at their hunting lodge in the foothills of the Alps for a few days, she was very keen on the idea.
Our narrator comes across a book luckily enough on births in animals and so assists at this time.
A long, deeply felt-meditation on loneliness, survival, friendship with animals, …since she’s all alone, inside a mysterious, invisible wall, deemed to be three meters thick, which separates her from the rest of the world.
For two years, starting on a 5th of November and ending on a 25th of February, she’ll try to accurately record, on the available paper, her inward musings on fear, hope, on being a human and not getting into despair; rather, at all costs, survive the ravages of the weather, loneliness and loss.Her writings, though, include blessed summer moments in the wild, using her binoculars for gazing at the stars.
She has decided to write 'a report' of what happened, and so in looking back we get tiny snippets of what has happened in her present, just enough to tease us and keep us wondering.
The report, and nearly all of the book is a daily account of the activities she has to do to stay alive.
It is not the food that keeps her alive, but her relationship with various animals, which in the end come to mean so much more to her than any human relationship she had, probably even her own children.
I can allow myself to write the truth; all the people for whom I have lied throughout my life are dead."There are wonderful passages throughout the novel; my book is covered in highlighter pen because so many lines stood out.
The process the author goes through to come to terms with what has happened and survive is realistic and gripping.
It speaks to the need to work for peace; to come together to avoid creating a situation where this novel could actually take place.
It is an important work that I believe everyone who is concerned for the future of our planet should read.
Sending their dog Lynx home before them, he becomes one of the important and constant companions of this lone woman, who must learn to survive.Eventually she realises she is living in the forest completely alone, she is joined by a cow she names Bella whom she hopes is pregnant, an old cat who will also give birth, a sack of potatoes she can plant and some beans which she will also use to create a crop.The book recalls the days, the months, the seasons, the work she creates for herself, the relationship between her and the animals, her nurturing of them and attempt to protect them from the harsh elements of the environment and their interactions with her, that remind her of her duty to survive.Lynx prodded me with his muzzle and pushed me sideways.
Es hat meine Erwartungen, die ich vor dem Lesen hatte, bei weitem übertroffen.Eine Frau macht einen Ausflug zu einer Jagdhütte in den Bergen und wacht eines Morgens auf, um festzustellen, dass sie nun scheinbar der letzte überlebende Mensch ist.
Das Buch schildert das Leben der namenlos bleibenden Frau in der Natur der Berge, ihren Kampf mit eben dieser Natur und ihrer eigenen Einsamkeit.Das Buch ist in Form eines Berichts geschrieben, den die Frau nach einiger Zeit angefangen hat zu schreiben.
Ich selbst kann allerdings nicht gut beurteilen, wie treffend die Charaktere der Tiere (Hund, Katze, Kuh) beschrieben sind.Ein weiterer wichtiger Aspekt dieses Buches für mich, ist die Beschäftigung der Frau mit ihrem eigenen Menschsein bzw.
Existentiell och civilisationskritisk robinsonad. L ä s u p p l e v e l s e! Den typ av bok som får mig att tänka "jag vill BARA läsa SÅDANA HÄR böcker resten av mitt liv".Till protokollet: Så befriande att ta del av en kvinnas survival skills efter The Revenant, The Martian, The Heart of the Sea, Life of Pi, Into the Wild, Castaway, Thoreaus Walden etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc.Ikväll tittar jag på https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jykYk...PS. Nyutkommen i pocket!
The woman knows the dog will follow so she continues....only to walk into an impenetrable barrier.
The ending is abrupt with no real resolution, but realistically the resolution will come when the woman dies and there is nobody left at all.
The story moves slowly (which is appropriate given the subject of a woman being totally alone for years with just animals for companions).
The audio brought the woman's situation to life.....it was like hearing her thoughts, so I was more interested in the story despite its tendency to plod along without any real developments.
Das Paar möchte am Anreisetag noch ins Dorf und lässt die Cousine, unsere namenlose Protagonistin, allein mit dem Jagdhund Luchs zurück.
Und auf der Seite der Protagonistin?Diese rechnet zunächst zwar noch mit Rettung, akzeptiert jedoch erstaunlich schnell, dass sie vorerst isoliert ist.
Bald gesellen sich noch eine Katze und eine Kuh zu der Protagonistin, die ebenfalls auf ihrer Seite der Wand gestrandet sind.
Gerade ihre Liebe zu den Tieren ist für mich absolut verständlich.Keinesfalls sollte jedoch der Eindruck entstehen, dass das einfache Leben ohne die Errungenschaften der Zivilisation hier verklärt oder gar glorifiziert wird.
(Insert space here for snarky comparisons to The Simpsons Movie or that Stephen King novel, even though The Wall predates them by 50 years and is a very different beast.)The wall has kept her safe from whatever seems to have killed all life outside it, but also traps her in a world she, as a city dweller, has no idea how to survive.
Even without a name, she remains singular, just a woman with her dog and her cat and her cow trying to survive even at the end of hope.
I am going to be in the minority when it comes to reviewing this book.
After reading the reviews and the synopsis on the back of the book, I thought I was in a for an “I can’t put this down” kind of book.
Instead I got a “Wow, is this book ever going to end” book.I love post-apocalyptic stories, which is why I was drawn to this one.
In the story, the nameless character is somehow trapped in a rural area when an invisible wall comes down and cuts her off from humanity.
As I read in another review, there is no action.
Una novela feminista, intimista y ecologista. Pausada, rutinaria y casi sin sobresaltos, aunque los esperas todo el rato, y eso es, precísamente, parte de su encanto.Me ha hecho sufrir mucho por la relación con los animales, pero también esperanza.Una maravilla.
I have to admit that though I work in publishing and though, up until 2010, I lived more years in Switzerland than I’d lived in the United States, I’d never heard of Marlen Haushofer until this year.
I appreciated the author’s meticulous attention to detail in this book and thought it aided my understanding of the narrator and what she valued in life.I might not be right, but for me, at least, The Wall was an exploration of what it means to be human and our connectedness with all of nature.
At the end of the edition I purchased, the director of the film says that The Wall is supposedly a perfect representation of depression.
I think that those who loved The Bell Jar in youth would find this to be the continuation of inescapable honesty that the life-long depresseive remains married to through the years.
For companionship, she has the hosts' pet dog and several other cattle and cats; she continues to live to care for them for several years.
I believe that this book is especially poignant to those who have suffered some kind of depression, as the narrator clearly does.
In "The Wall", Die Wand, a woman in Austria is isolated from the rest of the world.
They live in a mutual dependence, and form a community, a we, that seldom is described in literature.The woman's life is a daily struggle, and there is no chapter divisions to enable the reader's breath.
The inner and outer world is melting together and raises the question whether the wall really exists in a physical form or as an opportunity for the woman's personal development.
We think we are free in the modern society, but the woman is starting to question the world of conventions.
Ich hatte irgendwas mit vielen komplizierten Empfindungen und einer unangenehm leicht deutbaren Metaphernwand erwartet. So ist es aber gar nicht, sondern tatsächlich wie von Stefan Mesch versprochen mehr wie bei Cormac McCarthy, nur mit weniger Mord und mehr Geburten (mehrere Katzen, ein Kalb). Ich glaube, es geht vor allem um eine vollständige Darstellung des Konzepts Fürsorge, mit allen ihren schrecklichen Seiten, von denen zumindest ich selten lese. Stilistisch angenehm ehrgeizlos.
Die Dinge geschehen eben, und ich suche, wie Millionen Menschen vor mir, in ihnen einen Sinn, weil meine Eitelkeit nicht gestatten will, zuzugeben, daβ der ganze Sinn eines Geschehnisse in ihm selbst liegt.’Zeldzaam mooi schrijft Haushofer over de band, de verhouding met de dieren, liefde voor en inlevingsvermogen in de hond, de katten, Bella de koe en haar kalf!‘solange es im Wald ein Geschöpf gibt, das ich lieben könnte, werde ich es tun; und wenn es einmal wirklich nichts mehr gibt, werde ich aufhören zu leben.’Bijzonder is hoe de vrouw toch vrede krijgt met de situatie:‘Heute, nach einer langen Reihe von Weihnachtsabenden, saβ ich im Wald allein mit einer Kuh, einem Hund und einer Katze, und ich besaβ nichts mehr von allem, was vierzig Jahre lang mein Leben ausgemacht hatte.
En un principio puede resultar extraño leer algo así, pero lo cierto es que esa característica del relato se termina entendiendo por el mismo tono de la novela, y en ese sentido la autora consigue elaborar un texto creíble dentro de las reglas que éste mismo plantea.
Hay hacia el final una escena que no llega a ser un giro argumental (porque no cambia nada sustancial de lo que ya habíamos leído), pero que sin embargo produce en el lector algo de sorpresa o, mejor dicho, imposibilidad para entender qué es lo que ha ocurrido.
Am nächsten Morgen ist die Frau immer noch allein, nur der Hund ihrer Begleiter ist bei ihr, in der Berghütte und stellt fest, dass sie von einer unsichtbaren Wand eingeschlossen wurde.
Einzig die Atmosphäre wusste durchweg zu packen, was mir aber nicht reicht, um ein Buch gut zu finden.Der Punkt ist, ich habe mich furchtbar gelangweilt und fand das Buch alles in allem richtig schlecht.
So hat bleibt einem nichts weiter, als den vor sich hin plätschernden Storyverlauf zu ertragen und auf die wenigen Höhepunkte zu warten, die man ja dank der missglückten Erzählweise schon kennt.c) Überlebenskampf: Den hat es tatsächlich in begrenztem Ausmaß gegeben, erwartet hatte ich aber mehr.
Quite possibly the most profound book I've ever read. I was unable to put it down, and read it obsessively over the course of a week. The woman's survival and taking care of her few animals while profoundly alone in the mountains was quite awe-inspiring, and her relationship with her animals moved me to tears. A must-read.
Stunning. About isolation and relationships with animals... it's just incredible! One of my favorite books.
El mayor logro de este libro es el estado sicólogico que te genera desde las primeras páginas.
Es verdad, por momentos se vuelve una lectura muy lenta y monótona, yo misma estuve a punto de abandonar el libro varias veces, pero sin duda que en las últimas páginas todo toma otro sentido, pero no por lo que te dice la autora o sucede en la historia, sino por lo que desencadena en nuestra cabeza los pequeños hechos que narra.
Un análisis profundo de nuestra existencia, de nuestro lugar en el mundo, de lo que es ser un humano y nuestra relación actual con la naturaleza.
There are never any answers as to why the wall appeared or what its purpose is.
Instead, you will just learn the lesson that the world would apparently be a great place if there were more animals and fewer men.Perhaps what makes the book so feminist is that her reactions are inscrutable to me.
Die Geschichte funktioniert besser als einen Film.
Die österreichische Inszenierung ist wunderschön, und der Film ist nicht so langweilig als der Roman.
(Es ist nicht oft das der Film besser ist, aber in diesem Fall ist er.) Leider war die Off-Stimme auf Englisch.
