https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16245510-nothing-lasts-forever
But some bright Hollywood type cast Willis in Die Hard after all the other action heroes of the day turned it down and the rest is history.The film was based on this book originally titled Nothing Lasts Forever.
I don’t know if that’s true, but the idea of Sinatra saying “Yippee kai yay, motherfucker!” makes me smile.)While there are some significant changes between the book and the film version like the age difference between Joe Leland and John McClane, there’s a surprising amount of material written here that got used in the movie.
Honestly, and with no shame, I knew that my opinion of this book would be tainted by close to three decades worth of the greatest action movie ever - Die Hard!
Usually the book is better than the movie, but this movie is better (as expected) so .
. .As an action book, this was decent.
With our modern technology, some people may have a hard time enjoying the CB communication that drives this book.
Also, he spends a lot of time lamenting about some of the terrorists being females.
I got a digital copy of this book from Netgalley, so first of all thanks to the publishers and Netgalley for a chance to read this one.If you are like me, you have seen the movie Die Hard countless times.
Also, the story is very different from the movie.
So, if you see that this is the book the movie was based on, try not to go into it with any preconceived notions.
Despite the trauma and life and death decisions Leland has to make to stay alive and save the hostages, he also turns intropective.
He thinks back over his life and his mistakes.
We have a movie that's better than the book!The primary reason to read this sucker is because it's the basis for the movie Die Hard, a Christmas Classic (don't fight me on this, just accept).
Also, he claims responsibility for encouraging stores to put high-theft items like pens on cardboard backing to discourage shoplifting.
There are a lot of the specific little things from Die Hard in the book.
I'd sooner watch Die Hard's 4-6 (is that how many we have now?) than read this book again.
Yes. Does it really violate the appeal of the first, second, and third movie to make John McClane a superhero?
Die Hard is one of those films I knew by heart and that has stood the test of time better than most.
So, when I saw that the book that had inspired Die Hard was available on NetGalley I had to jump on it.
The book focuses on Joseph Leland, a World War II veteran, retired cop, private detective, terrorism expert, and a security consultant, who just gave up flying his own place seven years earlier.
Where Bruce Willis fills the solitary scenes with muttering and talking to himself, Leland in the book recounts his personal history.
The cult novel that inspired Die Hard isn't actually quite as satisfying as the movie itself, but it's not a landslide victory.
He's fun to read, and belongs on the page at least as much as John McClane belongs on the silver screen.Now, in order to answer the question everyone's obsessing about: the novel is maybe 60-70% similar to what the movie is.
It's through the original scenes that the novel stands out though, through the exposition and Thorp's über-efficient dialogues.
If you worship the movie as much as I do, it's worth a read.
I'm glad I read it, because now I can say I read "Die Hard", one of the greatest movies of all time :DThey're very, very different.
You can tell someone just read the book and went "holy shit, this is a great idea for a movie" and that was about it.Yes, terrorists sieze a tower.
Yes, John McClane kicks ass all over the tower.
That's about it for similarities, though.John McClane is a lot older.
It definitely reads more like how that situation would go down in reality.Three stars because the story was good enough to keep me reading, but the style was kind of choppy to me.
The flaw was in the superfluous character of the taxi driver who is described as a young black man who has a daughter in college son in High School.
The odd thing is that as I watched the movie, I thought it was very familiar--turns out I had read the book past its shortcoming first chapter and thoroughly enjoyed it.
In many ways, the movie follows the book, but I have to say, the movie took many of the boring details of the book and either changed them or left them out entirely, making it a much better story.
I kinda liked the main character who, in the book, is named Joseph Leland.
In the movie John’s going to see his wife, in the book Leland is visiting his daughter.
Definitely not the way you want a movie to end.
Personally, for one of the rare instances in my life, I like the movie better.Note: Ends at 86%, has bonus content.
yippee ki yay mother f cker !!!! wow what a book , what a read , also what a great movie adaption bloody fantastic
The only thing better than watching Die Hard is reading it.
While reading, I have to say the movie stayed very close to the book, and it was probably the best adaptation I have seen/read.
Just as things were getting intense and the action was building Leland would have some sort of flash back to give us a little bit of information on other characters or his own past.
Here is the kicker, I have seen Die Hard a million times so I figured I had this whole thing figured out and for the most part I was right.
No Die Hard fan would be complete without reading this book.
NOTHING LASTS FOREVER by Roderick Thorp has been re-released with the author's notes that built this over-the-top, non-stop action book!
Movie goers, think DIE HARD-this is where it all started!Joe Leland has flown out to Los Angeles to visit his daughter, an oil company executive for Christmas.
Terrorists take over the building and...start the non-stop, over-the-top action!
Its Joe against a dozen terrorists holding hostages, including his daughter.If you're like me, all of the blood, all of the action, everything Joe did was visualized as actor Bruce Willis doing it!
This book is chock full of balls.
Probably too many balls for you.
It's like a nuclear bomb of testosterone delivered straight to your brain through your eye-holes.
You saw Die Hard?
That guy was a charter school kindergarten teacher compared to the hard-core-terrorist-killing man-sack that inspired him.
Either avert your eyes from this book and get on with your every day life or buy every goddamn copy you can find and let sheer osmosis turn you into the fire driven mountain man you've always wanted to be.
Author's Envy! I wish I'd written this book! Here's why: http://www.mark-hodder.com/authorsenv...
Otherwise the story paved the way and became Die Hard, Leland is less gun-hoe than McClane we see a much softer side and some of his quips mirror one of our all time favourite characters Bruce Willis brought to life on the screen.
The book brings a more human side and lets us get inside the head of Joe, what he is thinking and how the killings of the terrorists affects him, something that is missing in the movie.
If you haven't seen Die Hard read this book first as you will absolutely love it, then check out the movie.
I love looking at the differences between books and their adaptations, seeing what's been changed and considering why.You can see the bare bones of the film in the book, but it really is a different creature with different characters and key changes in the plot, though follows a similar path.McClane is an older cop here, Joe Leland, visiting his adult daughter at her workplace on Christmas Eve. His wife is dead, he is estranged somewhat, but soon finds himself in a position that Bruce Willis will be glad of...Leland is a strategic thinker, I enjoyed the insights into his policeman's way of thinking through his problems, and the lead villain is just as smart and deadly as Alan Rickman, taking the threat of the lone hero seriously.
With the help of LAPD Sergeant Al Powell, Leland must fight the terrorist one by one to save the hostages, and more importantly his daughter and grandchildren.Nothing Lasts Forever by Roderick Thorp was re-released in December 2012 after being out of print for 20 years and if you haven’t guessed it by now, this is the novel Die Hard is based on.
One man taking on the world makes for a great story but I’m always bothered by that and while it’s entertaining in a book I feel like I question it more than I would with a movie.Nothing Lasts Forever is a little darker than Die Hard but there is no real competition when comparing the two.
In terms of Die Hard versus Nothing Lasts Forever, here’s my reason for liking the movie more: spatially and directionally, I have no compass, no imagination, so when it comes to all of Thorpe’s details about the building design and where John McClane is in terms of the building, and there’s a lot, I just couldn’t follow it.
But, for the spatially and directionally challenged, like me, it’s even more thrilling to see it come to heads on the big screen, since I can actually visualize everything.
If you’re like me, though, you might prefer the movie, but I’d definitely say that you have to read the book as well.
So much was familiar and indeed a paragraph or two summary of the novel and the movie would be strikingly similar, both involving terrorists, a Los Angeles high rise on Christmas Eve, an office party of a high powered multinational corporation, a blood relative of the main hero in danger (with the terrorists at first not knowing who she is as well as completely at a loss to understand who their lone adversary is), of a lone cop outside who is the hero’s only friend for a time, communicating via radio, of the cop’s supervisor more of a hindrance than a help, of the hero trying to secure guns from the terrorists, harrowing scenes in elevator shafts and ventilation ducts, the lone hero stealing explosives from the bad guys, law enforcement helicopters coming to bad ends, the news media digging up information on this lone hero…even down to the hero being bare foot, feet cut up by acres of glass shards, originally driven to the high rise in a limo.
Imagine a world in which Die Hard starred Frank Sinatra as an aging detective trying to save his daughter and grand children from terrorists.
Nothing Last Forever came out fifteen years later, with the character (Joe Leland, not John McClane) appropriately older (the ex-wife in the movie is a daughter in the book).Nonetheless, the bulk of the novel will be familiar to viewers of the film.
The set pieces are all the same--Joe/John dangling in an air duct, using a fire hose as safety line to jump off a roof, imbecilic cops trying to fight their way into an office building that's defended with RPGs--with the character's age being the main difference.
People who have seen Bruce Willis Yippie-Kay-Yaying his way through the Die Hard movies may think they know the story.They're wrong.Credit for the taught terrorist takeover of a skyscraper thriller goes to author Roderick Thorp.
The novel opens with Joe Leland, a wizened security consultant, pointing his gun at an unruly motorist preventing him from catching his plane to L.A.Leland, not Willis' John McLane, is going to spend Christmas with his estranged daughter Stephanie Gennaro, an oil company executive.
He's regretful at first, then furious after people are senselessly murdered.Fans of both the Die Hard franchise and suspense thrillers will enjoy this book.
"Nothing Lasts Forever" takes place in less than a day but the action didn't feel fast, probably due to the fact that Thorp could get very detailed; I skimmed a lot.
There's also a lot of internal monologues; Joseph is much more introspective than the movie's hero, John.
Joseph agonizes over some of the choices he makes and the reader will not always agree with him, but he has depth and isn't a cartoon character."Nothing Lasts Forever" offers a scenario that is possible, suspense mixed with the hero's family life, is gritty, and is reflective of our times.
It was entertaining and thrilling but I had too many expectations for "Nothing Lasts Forever" thanks to the movie "Die Hard".
It was changed from Joe Leland to John McClane.
He ends up in a battle for his life with terrorists in a high-rise building full of hostages.
It is a battle of will and wits to see who will be the victor.I think the reader will enjoy comparing the spectacular, breathtaking blockbuster movie with the book that inspired it.
Both the book and the movie are filled with highs and lows, action and exhaustion where the main character gets hurt but never gives up his battle to save his daughter and all the other hostages.
I took note and once finished with the movie went to find the book.
This is actually the second book in Joseph Leland, P.I. series but the first book in the Die Hard series.
There are many little changes through out the book.
Our main character in the movie is John McClaine.
Our main character in the book is Joseph Leland.
There are other small changes with names, ages, and people in the book.
That means, get ready for little changes in the story line but the same concepts.
Fans of 'Die Hard' should for sure read this book.
Perhaps this was such a fast read because 'Die Hard' is my Christmas movie every December.
It was interesting to compare what scenes from the book made it into the movie and what scenes didn't because of the change in medium.
Because I am such a fan of the movie, this was more like reading source material than a novel in its own right.
I am a huge fan of mysteries and thrillers, and often love both the original book and the movie made from the book.
In this case, I have to say that I feel the movie improved on the book as far as heightening the tension and thrills.
This is one of those times where the movie is better than the book
Years ago, I remember being bemused by the news that Frank Sinatra was first offered the role in DIE HARD; now, having encountered this novel's grandfather protagonist (as well as the fact that Sinatra appeared in THE DETECTIVE, a big screen adaptation of the first book in the series), it all makes sense.I'm a massive, massive fan of DIE HARD, and I've watched the film many times over the years.
The book also has a dark, more nihilistic edge, which makes it a more realistic read than the crowd-pleasing film is to watch.
Here is the perfect example of Hollywood adapting a mediocre book into a great movie.
And "Die Hard" is not just a great movie.
What I found out is that the producers and creators of "Die Hard" took the good elements of the book and perfected them on the silver screen.
Basically they trimmed the fat.
So much fat.
John McClain is a far more exciting character than Leland.
Leland's backstory weighs heavily on the already cumbersome plot.
In comparison to the movie, the book is a tragic and bleak affair, and it doesn't deliver the goods.
A lot more brutal than the film. A lot darker.
Ok so its Die Hard. But its not Die Hard you see. Its Joe Leland, not John Mclane.Its Stephanie Gennaro (his daughter) not Holly Gennaro.  Hans Gruber is Anton Gruber. Little Tony.There were some great similarities but some HUGE differences. Its a much darker more nasty book than the film. Very good in its own way. But ya know...its no Die Hard.
