https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76637.The_Fashion_in_Shrouds
At least its sexism is of a more paternal tone -- oh, you women are so silly and unable to control your feelings --rather than truly hateful.
When women commit their sordid little crimes it is at the behest of men, but that still makes them worse than men because they are stupider as well.This book contains the most repulsive proposal I have read, to date: Will you marry me and give up to me your independence, the enthusiasm which you give your career, your time and your thought?
I really thought I had read an earlier installment and not hated it or him, but I sure did here.
The sexism in this book was utterly appalling to me. It ruined a decent detective story. It's easy to say "oh, it was written in 1938, it's just of it's time", but that's a terrible argument considering that three years earlier Dorothy L. Sayers had written the intelligent, feminist detective story Gaudy Night.
Furtherance of her career is one of the pivots this story turns upon, but it is more Georgia's self-indulgence rather than her career which drives her to go through husbands (and painfully neglect her sadly-situated child Sinclair).The second woman is Val - Campion's sister - an extremely successful couturier discovering love rather later than usual and suffering for it.The third is Amanda Fitton - aircraft mechanic, inventor, brilliant, valiant, cheerfully playing partner to Campion's detective endeavours.The fourth hovers in the background, the devoted, unattractive secretary.The mystery itself is intriguing and complex, but it is the way these women deal with romantic possibility which is what the book appears to be about.(view spoiler)[Georgia is a 'timeless' woman - her self-absorbed 'outside society' approach could be found in any age.
Most of all, this is one of those weird misogynistic novels women write sometimes, when you get the sense they would like to believe women weren't inferior, because the thought, and the implication for human life in general, is crashingly depressing when anyone really thinks about it, but can't manage it.
Campion thinks weird misogynistic thoughts about his own sister, Valentine, because, I think, if only she wasn't a woman she'd be as good as him, and he kind of likes her and she's his relative so this inferiority depresses him.
But the book is enjoyable for reasons above and beyond the delightfully in-denial nature of their relationship: we meet Campion's sister for the first time and the mystery is tricky enough that, while I called a couple of plot twists, I didn't figure out the whodunnit until Allingham allowed the reader to.
*g*It's a pity the BBC Campion series didn't go long enough to tackle this one--I would have loved to see how they handled it.
But beyond that, they are selecting quotations from the book to augment their arguments, while they are ignoring just as many sections of the book that describe the talent, ingenuity, self-made wealth, independence, success, and other incredible qualities of the same women.
I would hate to read a book in which none of the women had any less-than-ideal qualities or weaknesses or in fact in which none of the men held ridiculously old-fashioned male viewpoints.
If we were reading for a university class called, for example, "Treatment of Women in Early 20th-Century Mysteries," then yes, let's write a full argument about the way the author treats her characters.
Lovely, mysterious, and peaceful ( for a murder mystery).
That said, anyone whining about the cultural milieu needs to realize that time is linear and novels are pinned to when they are written.
You don't like the characters, the language, or what the author says?
Fine, stick to reading last week's NYT best sellers--they're obviously for you.
Oh, and one more thing: it's FICTION folks-- not the flaming Constitution.Whew.
I didn't realize how annoyed I was at the reviewers with modern axes to grind on a 1938 novel.
If you aren't one of them, go read it, it's a wonderfully crafted mystery.

The Fashion in Shrouds (1938) is another entry in the annals of Margery Allingham's detective, Albert Campion.
As Campion begins to follow the trail among politicians and the theatre, plane designers and fashion designers, he discovers secrets that may affect his own sister.
Campion takes a bold step in the finale to bring the perpetrator out into the open.It may just be the state I've been in the last couple days (not feeling well)...but this particular Campion mystery seems just a bit more convoluted than most.
The mystery did hold my attention....I just barely got it solved before Campion's final scene.
And some of the character interactions were very good.
Good solid mystery.
Mostly good characters.
I am usually an Albert Campion fan but this book just irritated me.
Even Campion came across as a vacuous fool.
Another complaint I have is that if you have not read Dancers in Mourning (which I have) you have no idea to what some of the characters are referring when they bring up, for no particular reason, names and incidents from that story.The story here revolves around the fashion industry in which Campion's sister is a major player.
I was very disappointed in this entry in the Campion series......but I'll get over it.
I found nothing offensive in this book. I feel that those who see it are the ones who create it.
Better than average 1930s English drawing-room mystery that mostly takes place outside the drawing room. Several strong female characters are paraded before the reader, but are they good/bad/ugly, or a murderer? Or none of the above?
A deceptively bad, unbearably anti-woman book, this one sneaks up on you just as you settle in to enjoy a good deep psychological detective story.
As you may be able to tell, my enjoyment of this conversational habit did not linger.After a few chapters of this describe-everything-in-great-psychological-import-detail style of storytelling, I started to wonder when the story would actually get going.
Campion had admirably proved himself to be both smarter and more emotionally stable than everyone else around him (ever) and the only death had been one that happened some years earlier, apparently unsuspicious.Furthermore, it was becoming uncomfortably apparent that Allingham was oddly preoccupied with the state of the modern woman.
Have the previous books I've read by Margery Allingham been edited for racial slurs, homophobic remarks, and other offensive language?
Sayers was writing earlier with a far more enlightened mind and refined language.
I would like to feel that I might discuss anything with you if I wanted to; but only because I wanted to, mind you; not as your right."Seriously?Here again: Dorothy L.
Sayers talking about equality of the sexes and equally valued work in 1935, and Margery Allingham setting women back decades in 1938.
and maybe not all the successful/interesting women are willing to give up their lives to unworthy men.
This book isn't going to change one's way of thinking, but it's a well-plotted mystery with some excellent characters. Margery Allingham was a good writer and this novel is far better-written than most detective/ mystery novels; one of her strengths is that she does not write as if sh were in awe of her main character.And then of course, there is her treatment of female characters. How many novels are there where the female engineer gets the man?
I did not like this book. Things I did not like:The writing styleThe charactersThe plotThe datedness (couldn't forgive the racism and misogyny no matter how contemporaneous they are)The beginningThe endThe middleNo.
I can't praise this book highly enough. Utterly fabulous. My favourite detective in his most fiendish case yet. A perfect example of the golden age of detective fiction.
Surely SOMEONE must write a detective as interesting as Sayers's Lord Peter?
So far, I'm just not taken with Allingham's writing or character work.This story shows promise during the first third but plateaus past that point.
I know there's a famous one somewhere down the line.
The rape mention was probably the apotheosis of it all, and I can't say I'm proud of Allingham for writing such tripe (understatement of the year).
I'm shocked that anyone would put Allingham and Dorothy Sayers in the same category after reading this book.
Please go read Gaudy Night or any other Lord Peter book, for everyone's sake.
A period piece, written in 1938, featuring detective Albert Campion - subsequently a TV series in Britain.
Though I will say that one of the main women characters runs a successful fashion business and another works for an aircraft engineering firm, which is pretty advanced for the period.
It wasn't necessary to the plot or for character definition.
God knows, when I was at school in England in the mid 60s, our dark brown uniform cardigan was described as 'n' brown, subsequently changed to Congo brown, so you can see it took a while.
In spite of all that, this book is an important part of the series.
There are three strong, independent female characters, Amanda, Val and Tante Marthe.
Campion develops as a character although at times in this book he fades into the background.
These books don’t rely completely on each other and can be read as stand-alone but the character of Albert Campion develops more with each book.
By this point in the series Campion has become such a human hero.
Reading this book alone will not give the reader a complete sense of him.
I think they are best read in order.
Super fun. I do adore Albert Campion.
Albert Campion's involvement is more than just professional this time, because the case involves his sister Valentine, Georgia's best friend.The reason I like this book so much, is because we get to know Valentine, Albert's sister, and learn a bit more about his back ground and family and also because Lady Amanda Fitton from Sweet Danger, is back in Albert's life.
I also like it because during Campion's investigation, Alligham describes working women, 1930's period fashion, and the mores of British upper class society.
Sadly, I am with the folks who did not like it as much as, well any of the other Campion books before it in the series.
I'll leave it to others to summarize the plot.I like this series for the historical detail, the characters and the mystery in that order.
Sometimes in cases where books have a lot of characters I write their names down and create a little "cheat sheet".
Won't say any more about that so as not to spoil.My plan is to read the next book in the series and see how it goes.
I understand it was written in the thirties and there were certainly worse things going on in the world at that time than a fictional character who hates women.
But I would remind anyone unsure about this book that you are supposed to hope the guy solves the mystery and all ends up happy for him.
I kept hoping the guy would get what was coming to him due to his attitude towards women.
Mr. Campion (the hero of the book) says to his sister, "What you need is a good cry or a good rape.
Albert Campion’s sister, Val, is a fashion designer who finds herself mixed up in the unexplained death of film star, Georgia Wells’ husband.
I liked Campion as a characters and I also liked his sister, Val. The ending of the book was a complete surprise to me as I had identified someone else as the murderer but when you look back at the story there are plenty of clues as it who the murderer actually was.These older mysteries written during the Golden Age of British crime fiction stand the test of time very well in my opinion.
I was writing down favorite bits of exposition the whole time I was reading.
It can be a bit off-putting in its treatment of women.
Maybe it was her reactionary attitude to the times in which she wrote or maybe it was her self-consciously overcompensating writing as herself a successful modern women, especially given the setting of this book - fashion, with lots of strong, central female characters.
It's my first novel length of hers (aside from some Campion short stories), so I will continue and see if it pervades all of her writing.
As for the story itself, character development, tone and style, really great.

Somewhat amusing but not much more.
The mystery was hardly solvable for the reader, and the characters did not feel interesting.
There was quite a lot of prejudice expressed against other races and against women.
Personally I never like any hint of racism, and while I have no trouble with old-fashioned attitudes as such when it comes to gender, I thought this book was actually misogynistic at times, which I also don't like.
If you disregard the prejudice, the book is an okay way to pass the time, but there are many better novels you can find.
Well, at least Allingham succeeds in creating a group of thoroughly unsympathetic people. Unfortunately the casual racist and misogynistic comments spoil the story. I agree with another reviewer who writes that the book contains the worst marriage proposal ever. If you have never read any of Margery Allingham's mysteries, I recommend you start with something else.. I enjoyed the Coroner's Pidgin.
A lovely period piece, ruined by a heavy dose of disgusting period misogyny. Too bad.
