https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3221687-kamienie-na-szaniec
Przystępując do czytania tej książki zupełnie nie spodziewałam się co mnie czeka.
"Jedna z wielu lektur gimnazjalnych, nudy" - oj jak bardzo się myliłam.
Kilka(naście?) razy doprowadziła mnie do łez.
Ci wszyscy bohaterzy poświęcili życia aby ratować ojczyznę, abyśmy my żyli w wolnej Polsce.
Ich dokonania, tak z ich perspektywy zwykłe i normalne, wzbudzają we mnie ogromny podziw.
Często czytając zatrzymywałam się nie wierząc, że ktoś jest w stanie do takich poświęceń, do takieg odwagi.
Alek, Zośka, Rudy i wielu innych - to nie fikcyjni, książkowi bohaterowie, ale prawdziwi młodzi ludzie, niewiele starsi ode mnie.
Jestem Im ogromnie wdzięczna.
Innej oceny dać po prostu nie mogłam, jako uczennica Batorego i harcerka Pomarańczarni.
Krótko i na temat: po przeczytaniu wstydzisz się, że nie mógłbyś być takim bohaterem.
3.5Historia bardzo przejmująca i super, że faktyczna. Forma pamiętnika tutaj dla mnie za mało emocjonalna, nie udało mi się porządnie wypłakać. Jednak zachęciło mnie to wszystko do sięgnięcia po więcej literatury wojennej, więc tu duży plus.
Bałam się, że będzie to nudna historia o wojnie (nie jestem fanką historii), ale na szczęście książka ta okazała się przeciwieństwem moich oczekiwań.
Kamienie na Szaniec by Aleksander Kamiński is a non-fiction book about the story of occupied Poland and the Warsaw Uprising.
It follows three best friends’ lives: Alek, Rudy and Zośka.
This book wasn’t written in an intriguing way, because it was full of facts - and only facts.
The concept of Kamienie na Szaniec itself is interesting, but the way the author explained the story wasn’t as great.
I recommend this book to teenagers and adults who like to read about history and can stand books that only state facts.
In my opinion, every Polish person should read this book.
One of my absolute favourites. I love this book, I love the story it tells. I am a Girl Guide from the Scout Group which patron were scouts who fought during the II World War so it is my personal Bible. I read it so many times and every time I cired when some of the heroes died... It is beautiful story of a wonderful, amazing actions of true people.
Nel libro sono veramente tre i protagonisti: Alek, Zośka e Rudy, che in italiano è diventato il Rosso.
I tre ragazzi, chiamati in italiano Alek, il Rosso e Zośka, all'inizio del libro sono semplici scout.
Ognuno ha una caratteristica che lo rende imprescindibile nel gruppo: Alek è quello atletico che non ha paura; il Rosso è quello riflessivo che studia sempre; Zośka, invece, è l'organizzatore.
E ovviamente il prezzo che si paga sarà sempre più alto.Alek, il Rosso e Zośka sono esistiti davvero: per Internet si trovano le loro foto.
Wcale nie płakałam Wcale nie zużyłam całego opakowania chusteczek WcaleAleż to wcale
Nie podobała mi się forma, ale nie mogłam uwierzyć, że to prawdziwe wydarzenia.
4,5
9/10
Kamienie na Szaniec by Aleksander Kamiński is an incredible nonfiction book about the Second World War. The book is about three boy scouts who are sent to a secret organization named Mały Sabotaż, which is translated into Small Sabotage. They worked over the area of Warsaw and its outskirts, completing different tasks supporting the Polish army and/or working against the German army. The book takes place from the beginning of the Second World until 1943. As I started reading this book, I realis
The book takes place from the beginning of the Second World until 1943.
As I started reading this book, I realised it is a story with many facts put into it.
I knew I would like that because the facts were very interesting and much more fun to read when put into a story.
At times, the amount of facts, names and details got too overwhelming and that slowed down the reading pace.
The plot is significantly interesting and the book is worth the time it takes to read it (which isn’t very long).
Kamienie na Szaniec is a historical non-fiction book by Aleksander Kamiński.
Kamienie na Szaniec is a book that tells about the adventures of three friends living in occupied Warsaw and Poland.
I really enjoyed the book and I think it shows very well what life under the occupation in Poland, during World War II.
He also shows what all of the characters feel and what they think about the current situation.
It is a book worth reading for most people.
Kamienie na Szaniec is a book for people of all ages starting from 12 year old up to 100 years old.
Kamienie Na Szaniec is a historical non-fiction book written by Aleksander Kamiński.
First published in 1943, it tells the tale of three young boys growing up in the times of the second world war.
The book provides factual information and properly describes the horror of what it was like to live in Poland in those times.
It is a landmark in Polish history, as it shows many of the highlights of the second world war in Poland, such as the Operation Arsenal, in great detail.
It is worth reading solely for its educational value and it is recommended for the Polish youth, though anyone can read it and learn something.

Странно, но эту удачную книгу о первых шагах варшавского сопротивления в годы нацистской оккупации, вошедшую в курс польской школьной литературы, не переводили на русский. Странность в том, что это антинацистская повесть. Что не понравилось советским цензорам, понять трудно. Польский патриотизм? Так он направлен против "адольфиков", немцев. Жёсткая сцена с избиением пленного подпольщика? Ну, советские агитпропщики, не стесняясь, писали о "наших замученных героях". Короче, не понять. А написана она здорово и стиль автора напоминает гайдаровский.
The book is very sad, especially in the end. I ussually dislike the kind of a book where everyone dies at the end, but this one was actually much better. It cartainly is not a book for depressed people, because they will become even more depressed. After all, the book is interesting, and it is worth reading
It is a really interesting book.
Lektura xD
<3
Chyba pozycja obowiązkowa dla Polaków.
Wzruszająca i trzymajaca w napieciu, czytałam w czasch szkolych a wciąż świetnie pamietam.
*lecture* one of the best! must read!
Lektura, kolejna z ciekawszych.
Good book about three brave young adults during WW2.
2013
