https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44230.The_Silver_Pigs
And if you're looking to read to relax, there's no better praise.As I mentioned in my comment, the voice and tone reminded me of Glen Cook's Garrett, P.I. series sans the fantasy element.
If you're looking for fast-paced, engaging and smartly written bedside/airplane reading then I can recommend this series.Fortunately, my library has all but 3 of the 20 books Davis has written so far.
Though, of course, they wouldn't have #2 but my luck continues good as my alternate library has a copy, which I've duly ordered.
'Now don't be worried!' I reassured her. 'Tell me, how old are you?'She was sixteen. O Jupiter!'Married?''Do I look like a person who is married?'She looked like a person who soon should be! Nope. Not for me.
Way back in early 2015, I read Lindsey Davis' The Ides of April.
For many of us who would rather read historical mysteries than current true crime, the attraction is what an author can do to transport us to a different time and place and to make us understand (and/or feel) what it was like to breath and walk around in that remote land.
But more than all this, Davis weaves a story that takes the "informer" (that era's term for a private investigator) Falco from a callow opportunist to a more mature man.
So, when a lovely young girl, Sosia Camillina, niece of Senator Decimus Camillus Verus and daughter of the senator's younger brother, Publius Camillus Meto, almost knocks Falco down on the steps of the Forum, he welcomes the distraction.
He plans to bring her relatives to her in the morning, as they decide it is to dangerous for her to go out in public.After visiting the Senator in his palatial house and verifying Sosia's relationship and her story, and happily getting a contract from the Senator to work for him, Falco leaves the Senator's house intending to return to his small flat and the girl.
Wow, I really liked this!
It's very accessible; you can enjoy it even if you don't know a thing about the history of Ancient Rome.
The author supplies historical details smoothly without lecturing the reader.The mystery itself wasn't especially gripping, but the story was fast-paced, with truly likeable characters and great dialogue.
I started snickering at the dramatis personae and continued to be amused all the way through the book.There are frequent, oddly placed paragraph breaks, which make the writing seem a little choppy at first, but after a while I started to enjoy the narrative style.
I've already ordered the next book in this series.
Enjoyed the reread. I always find new plot points or historical references that I've missed. This time it was Vitellius and mushy peas.
Ova knjiga je za mene toalno otkrovenje!Pozajmila sam je od drugarice, u fazonu "Daj nesto da odmorim od fantastike." I nisam se pokajala.Znate one stare, crno-bele filmove o detektivima sa sesiricima i cigarom uvek u kraju usana u ciju kancelariju jednoga dana zaluta prelepa plavusa sa zanimljivim slucajem za istragu. E ova knjia je bas to samo smestena u Stari Rim u vreme Cara Vespazijana. Veliki plus su vrcavi humor i sarkazam glavnog lika.

And “The Silver Pigs” is the first of 20 books she has written about the adventures of Falco set in 70 A.D. during the the beginning of the reign of Roman Emperor Vespacian.I always marvel at how well British authors can work with the Roman Empire as a setting, as there are quite a few books and series set in Ancient Rome, as I am also a huge fan of the Medicus series by Ruth Downie – I admit I have not read the works of Steven Saylor from the US but hope to begin shortly.
Solid effort for a first book in a series, even though I could figure out some of the conspiracy and the conspirators before Falco – but that is OK since he is the first private investigator and I have read many more of these books than he has worked on cases!
Oh - where do I start?
A private eye series set in ancient Rome.
This is the first one - I won't add all the books individually, there are (I think) 18 by now, but it's set in Rome in 70AD, the hero is Marcus Didius Falco, a Roman 'informer'....
and his friends, and his over the top family, and his lady, Helena Justina, the senator's daughter, way out of his league but that doesn't stop them, lol, and HER family...
They are my favourite ancient Roman couple Evah.
I love, love, love this series.
Pode-se comparar aos romances de Steven Saylor que tem como protagonista o Gordiano, Descobridor...Mas ao contrário de Gordiano, Marco Falco é um sedutor e republicano.
Gostei do facto da autor descrever os factos com humor, e não de modo muito sério.Helena foi uma das personagens que mais me encantou.
Já para não falar que o envolvimento dela com Falco foi um dos melhores momentos do livro.Também acho importante referir o episódio das minas em Bretanha.
Pessoas que sofriam com o domínio dos romanos.
Só se pondo no lugar dos outros compreendemos com precisão o que realmente as pessoas sentem!
I always loved ancient Rome (since I first read Asterix), and detective stories.
In Silver Pigs, we are introduced to Marcus Didius Falco, a hard-boiled detective set in ancient Rome under Vespasian's rule.
Still, no one can fault Davis for her research and accurate depiction of what life in the stratified Roman society was like at the time.--Assaph Mehr, author of Murder In Absentia: A story of Togas, Daggers, and Magic - for lovers of Ancient Rome, Murder Mysteries, and Urban Fantasy.
Sugeriram-me que experimentasse a série Marcus Didius Falco, de Lindsey Davis, por ser grande fã da série Roma Sub Rosa, de Steven Saylor.Devo dizer que, com esta comparação, coloquei as expectativas um pouco elevadas, já que adoro as aventuras de Gordiano, e isso fez com que este ‘Porcos de Prata’ me soubesse a pouco.
No início dei por mim a não gostar, sequer, das personagens, opinião que curiosamente se foi modificando ao longo do livro.Também me disseram que o primeiro é o mais fraco da série, pelo que tenciono, ainda assim, dar mais uma oportunidade a Didius Falco no futuro, pode ser que me convença melhor.
Pontuação: 3 estrelas muito fraquinhas.
"The Silver Pigs" is the debut novel introducing Falco and the other characters that dominate the series.Falco's period is also fascinating: after the Year of the Four Emperors, just as Vespasian is beginning his rule.
Along the way he loves, loses, and loves again (vague enough?) and begins a relationship not just with a Senator's family, but with the new Emperor's as well.The dialog is first person, and reads a bit like Sam Spade in the Subura.
My pal (and fellow author) Fidelis Morgan suggested I give it a try because I couldn't think of a book that wrote about a successful relationship in an interesting way.
I think that's the key to a relationship (haha, and a sign that it might be over)--when you fight, do you go for the jugular or do you hold back because you love that person?
There's so much good stuff in these books, and you don't realize that you're also learning some really cool things about Roman times.
Actual rating: 2.5 (Seriously Goodreads.
Lots of people writing in their own half stars.
Take the hint!!)The first thought I had in the first chapter was "Is the narrator British?
What is he doing in Ancient Rome".
I later learned that the author is in fact from England.
I didn't care much for the story.
The saving grace of this story was the snarky and likeable main character and the ancient background, but at the end of the day that wasn't good enough to get three stars out of me.
First time I've ever bothered to switch edition on a GR book, and that's because reading this book in 260 pages of titchy tiny font really do make a difference. Does slow things down and make it that little bit worse.Still plenty good though. The fun is in the humour because the mystery is sadly a little underdeveloped, but that's okay, because Lindsay Davies as Falco is one of my favourite authorial voices ever; irreverent, sentimental and self-deprecating.
When a Philip-Marlowe like character becomes the narrator of events that take place in Ancient Rome, you get Lindsey Davis! The research is excellent, the stories are fascinating, the historical truth is respected and… a sort of hard boiled detective investigates. Probably one of the best historical novels, along with Sharan Newman, on the market.
I needed a new series to make me fall in love with a clever detective (informer) all over again, and I really wanted it to be the M Didius Falco series.
The long and short of it is that Lindsey Davis failed to make me fall in love.
It was more like a mild like.
I can't see myself coming back for more of this series.
I came looking for a genuine mystery.
What I got was Moonlighting meets Remington Steele meets Hollywood-sword-and-sandal-romantic-mystery-lightness.
It's not horrible (I bet it would make a cracking and very watchable TV series), but not for me.
Despite the slightly strange first person writing style, I really enjoyed this book. It introduces Marcus Didius Falco, a private informer just about surviving in Rome at the time of the emperor Vespasian. It's fast paced and has all the elements of a novel to keep you entertained, bit of romance, crime, travel... I'll certainly be picking up the next Falco story.
I read some series like River Song travels with the Doctor: out of order. I’ve dipped and dallied with various books in the Falco series, but most recently I read  Venus in Copper  before going back to the source, Falco #1: The Silver Pigs. Here we meet Lindsey Davis’ private eye: Marcus Didius Falco, an informer in the first-century Roman empire. Falco is constantly on the hunt for new clients and new income, lest his greedy landlord send some gladiators around to bust his kneecaps (and other,
In this case, Falco gets mixed up in the murder of a senator’s niece and finds himself travelling to Britain, where he meets the same senator’s daughter as he races to uncover a silver theft conspiracy that could topple the emperor.As I pointed out in my review of Venus in Copper, this series has two notable strengths.
She creates a consistent voice for him as narrator, expertly balancing between exposition that her modern readers need to know and inferences about would be apparent to someone living in ancient Rome.So many books set in this time period focus on the dynastic struggles.
Algo lioso e introductorio, pero ha estado bien, un libro ligero con mucha historia, cosa que me viene genial para lo que estudio. A ver si los siguientes son mejores, pero el segundo lo leeré después de exámenes, quería terminar este antes de que empezasen.
It seems like a promising premise: take the noir stock character of the down-and-out gumshoe, gruff on the outside but with a soft center, and move it to Imperial Rome.
Also, I couldn't really bring myself to care about the mystery, even though it begins with the murder of a lovely, innocent girl.
I did enjoy the character of Helena Justina, divorced socialite, cousin of the murdered girl, a no-nonsense young woman of exceptional intelligence who is not in the least shy about going after what she wants--which happens to be the hero.
Also, I honestly lost track whether Falco was looking for the murderer of a young girl with her family as his clients, or working for the emperor trying to solve a case involving theft from the silver mines of Britain, or both...I look forward to trying the next in the series to see if the pacing evens out and if I have an easier time following the characters' motivations.
I can see why Didius Falco has such a following - even his daughter now has a spin-off series!
Not bad, but it has some flaws.
The bad part, for me, has to do with the writing.
I cannot say that Davis can't write, but she has problems with the order of exposition (she puts the horse before the cart, making you think you've lost something you can't find running through previous pages, just to let you discover that it's the conclusion of an inference only exposed several pages later) and the common flash-references to things we haven't heard about in the whole book.
Listened to the audiobook narrated by Christian Rodska - superb narration, really flavorful British accents throughout and brought all the characters to life. The story is fast paced and involves a detailed plot of embezzlement, murder, and class politics. Out hero, Falco, appears quite rough around the edges and of low character when we first meet him, but don't be put off-this is as much a story about the internal life and evolution of Falco as it is about government intrigue.
Ah to be Rome surronded by naked people!Which isn't quite what happens to Marcus Didius Falco; he does seem to get surronded by women an awful lot.This is actually a quite funny, sometimes touching, and very good novel. Falco must solve the mystery of the pigs (which are really silver and not pig shaped at all) while dealing with his mother and various others.Fun!
Run don't walk to your local bookseller and start this fantastic series of first century Rome detective Marcus Falco. He will win your heart and his nutty family and associats will continue to delight through many adventures.
2.5 stars
The opening bow of Marcus Didus Falco is like a Chandlerest noir novel, with first person point of view, big corrupt city and this disenchanted, cynical PI who's at the wrong place at the right time.Davis succeeds in creating a believable Rome set in Vespasian's time (70 AD) with it's corrupt politicians, corrupt army, corrupt police and public administration and makes it connect with our modern life.
Davis introduces two strong characters Falco and Helena Justina who's relationship molds and drives the series.
