https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16634.The_Glass_Bead_Game
All the insights, noble thoughts, and works of art that the human race has produced in its creative eras, all that subsequent periods of scholarly study have reduced to concepts and converted into intellectual property – on all this immense body of intellectual values the Glass Bead Game player plays like the organist on an organ.In other words, an early glimpse of post-modernity, but telescoped into an imaginary future (after what Hesse dryly characterises as “The Age of the Feuilleton”) in which – for the purposes of players of the Glass Bead Game – artistic production has stopped or gone underground, and the highest cultural calling is to manipulate what has been left behind by former ages, to create – in a hyper-ritualised setting and for the benefit of worldwide audiences – these “games” that are part music, part mathematics, and use a futuristic brand of calligraphic characters to sample and integrate their component parts into a quasi-equation that can later be studied and reproduced.
I exercised it myself by “leaping,” to use Joseph Knecht’s term, whenever I felt The Game was being threatened.The idea of the rules of The Game, its language, and symbology undoubtedly provoked some sort of teen-age mysticism.
That many of them are dead or no longer in my daily life is neither regrettable nor sad since the Order continues to unite us.Hesse’s idea of the Age of the Feuilleton as a motivating social force for the development of The Game resonated in my young life with what I perceived as the random character of what people worried about - nuclear war, mortal sin, cures for acne - and what might actually matter.
There was something both disquieting and uniquely calming about these strange little books that Hesse wrote detailing his love and fascination with Eastern thought and philosophy.
Using the framework of the Game Hesse is able to look at the dynamic of all of man's achievements as being both beautiful, worthwhile, but also frivolous and fleeting.
I found these ideas (obviously) beautiful and rewarding, but I'm still not sure if I really liked the structure of the book: Part 1 (pages 7-44): Introduction to GBG; Part 2 (Pages 45-427): Magister Ludi's story; Part 3 (428-445): Magister Ludi's poems; Part 4 (446-558): The Three Lives (other incarnations of Magister Ludi).
Or there is the Sinophile who draws Knecht into a dialogue with Chinese history and literature, who gets to deliver the book’s most interesting challenge: when Knecht seeks his assistance in bringing the symbology of the I Ching into the vocabulary of the Game (much easier, you’d think, than it would have been to encapsulate French poetry or organic chemistry, since the I Ching is already encoded in a set of symbols easily printed on beads), his new mentor smiles and says you can build a garden in the world, but good luck fitting the entire world inside your garden.
576. Das Glasperlenspiel = The Glass Bead Game, Herman HesseThe Glass Bead Game (German: Das Glasperlenspiel) is the last full-length novel of the German author Hermann Hesse. It was begun in 1931 and published in Switzerland in 1943 after being rejected for publication in Germany due to Hesse's anti-Fascist views. A few years later, in 1946, Hesse went on to win the Nobel Prize in Literature. In honoring him in its Award Ceremony Speech, the Swedish Academy said that the novel "occupies a speci
نقل از متن: آن اندیشه که در اصل مرا برافروخت تصور تناسخ بود، به صورت محملی که از طریق آن ثبات در تبدیل، دوام در سنت و زندگی روح به طورکلی بیان شود.
«کاستالیا» را باید مفهومی بری از زمان درک کرد، که واقعیت درونی خود را واجد است و هدف آن نشان دادن امکان زندگی روح و روان است.
اما بالاترین حالتی که از بازی کردن بازی مهره شیشه‌ ای باید حاصل شود، سلامت نفس است، و این چیزی است که «هسه» در همه ی آثار خود، از رمان و شعر و مقاله و نقد به دنبال آن بوده‌ است.
These are in no way contradictory notions, they even sit together as one of the themes of the book: "meaningful and meaningless cycle of master and pupil, this courtship of wisdom by youth, of youth by wisdom, this endless, oscillating game was the symbol of Castalia" (p207) First IntroductionSince I have had a second introduction it follows that I ought to really have a first one.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Hessian Fable: "The Glass Bead Game" by Hermann HesseI read this in German a long time ago (2002-06-15).I suppose it depends on whether working through the difficulty brings you genuine insights into the human condition. I'm ashamed to say I've only read one book on this list - Ulysses - and enjoyed it. I like modernism, and Joyce's Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man is one of my favourites. Woolf is a bit daunting, but Mrs. Dalloway is superb.
I usually  like weighty wordy novels where nothing in particular happens.I did not like the Glass Bead Game.I really did not like the Glass Bead Game.And I don’t understand how people did.First of all, I’ve gone through a lot of reviews.
I’m not trying to insinuate that they didn’t really read it, or that they didn’t really understand it, or even that they are trying to seem cool by giving a Nobel winning book a good star rating--- I’m not insinuating that, but I have to wonder.
That leaves Josef as the driving force of the book, but the only time he comes to life is when the actually interesting side-characters come back into the book, like the Master of Music.
I read everything that he had ever written at a whirlwind pace several years ago and still return to my favorites, Steppenwolf, Siddhartha and Demian, on a rotating yearly basis.
That said, I have often heard that The Glass Bead Game is the magnum opus of Hesse's career.
If one were to read only one book by Hesse it should be this one, I had been told.
No offense to those earnest recommendations, but I could have gone a long time without reading this dull retread of every one of Hesse's other books.So many of the same character types and situations appear in these pages that I can't help but feel I'm reading a Cliff's Notes version of his oeuvre.
The hierarchy supplies Castalia with serenity, a static but comfortable stability, built to prevent any disordered flow of disruptive emotion while dedicated to a life of contemplation, research, study of any subject worthy of intellectual exploration.Is there any other of us who earlier in life didn’t wonder, can’t I just get paid for thinking?
The Glass Bead games not only singles out the best players but insures the continous enlargement of consciousness, wisdom, knowledge.
Besides, dealing with life in the world is a lower pursuit and one not worthy of following.
The world with its bustling jobs based on fear and ambition thinks the same of Castalia.And where is Knecht?Hesse’s skill as a novelist is shown in his ability to dramatize this rather than lecturing.
هذا كتاب هيرمان هيسه الأشهر و الأكبر , كُتب على مدار تسع سنين , و يضمّ معظم أفكار هيرمن هيسه التي عُرف بها فيما بعد إنّها النزعة نحو الذات , و التأمّل و اليقين الموجود هناك في داخلك , وحدة الوجود , التي تقاوم ماديّة العالم و سببيّته الصلبة , الطبيعة تتكلّم معك و بك , و الكائنات كلّها كينونة متنافمة ضمن اللحن نفسِه .الموسيقى ..
و هنا عبقريّة الرواية و فكرتها المذهلة الحقيقة الواحدة لعبة الكريات الزجاجيّة , هي لعبة ابتكرتها الموسيقى , ثمّ عبّر بها الرياضيّون عن أنفسهم ثمّ الفيزيائيّون ثمّ نقّاد الأدب ...
The closest philosophic vision to Hesse's Castalia that I can think of is Cassirer's philosophy of symbolic forms, which similarly seeks to express the unity of human knowledge into a single philosophical language.
In this, Hesse shows a remarkable understanding of the nature of form: only through a meditative act can scholars here fully reveal the content of symbolic forms:“everything actually was all-meaningful, that every symbol and combination of symbols led not hither and yon, not to single examples, experiments, and proofs, but into the center, the mystery and innermost heart of the world, into primal knowledge.
(Nice hat!)A good Tratactus on Society; on what distinguishes the normal ones from the elite ones.In Castalia, the Elite (or the Order) pursues the Games of the Mind and its cultivation. An elite member renounces material wealth....and embraces poverty to become a Mandarin of the Mind. That is what Joseph Knecht did.Ah!...at Castalia, they learn meditation (Hesse calls it, so appropriately, psychic hygiene)....and they're in the 23rd century. Students of the Order, most often, renounce marriage
(Nice hat!)A good Tratactus on Society; on what distinguishes the normal ones from the elite ones.In Castalia, the Elite (or the Order) pursues the Games of the Mind and its cultivation.
An elite member renounces material wealth....and embraces poverty to become a Mandarin of the Mind.
Students of the Order, most often, renounce marriage.
They are quite familiar with the idea of reincarnation (*) and, annually, they have to elaborate a composition (called "A life") which narrates the author in three periods of time, say, for example in Imperial Rome...or in Periclean Athens ...or Austria in Mozart's time; it's up to each one.
This is Hesse's epic novel that tells the story of Joseph Knecht, a boy who passes through the system of the Castalian Order to become the Glass Bead Game Magister.
The book is written by an unknown member of the Castalian Order who is retelling the story of Joseph Knecht.
The Glass Bead Game is an intellectual game played encompassing all major areas of learning, though its origins lay in music theory.
The Castalian Order is a monastic like society whose one goal is to learn.
The book deals with ideas of spiritualism, elitism, intellectualism, and how best to deal with the problems of society.
إضافة هذه القراءة العتيقة التي وجدتها عندي من عام 2006ربما لو أتيح لي إعادة قراءة الرواية الآن بعد أن زاد في روحي كم كبير من الكتب و السنوات لكنت نظرت إليها بعين أخرى، و ما كنت لأدري ما أقول عنها الآن بأية حال هي رواية تميل لتكون مسنة و حكيمة---على كل هذه القراءة على ما كنت قضيته فيها سابقا، و الله وحده العالم ما كنت لأقضي حاليا فيما لو قرأتها----لمن لعب بالكريات الزجاجية: تعال شاركني2006حاولت عدة مرات أن ألاعب هيرمان هسه بكرياته الزجاجية و لكني كنت أفشل في كل مرة...0إلى أن أتى اليوم الذي قررت فيه أن أعذب نفسي فأجبرتها على مواصلة قراءة الرواية (لعبة الكريات الزجاجية) و التي بلغت عدد صفحاتها (628)...
One of the fun aspects of this work is The Glass Bead Game: he introduces an idea of representing ideas, mathematics, literature -- all knowledge and philosophy -- as "glass beads," or symbols.
The academic society he builds is dedicated to the art of arranging these symbols in a sort of game.
Hesse doesn't go into depth here: he's simply uses this game as a device to show 1) an elite society dedicated to this game, and 2) a way to represent how devotion to studying a worthy cause is not in and of itself the meaning of life.
All that is lacking in terms of passion in the first part is present in these three short stories at the end, and they present all the same themes.The Glass Bead Game itself, as far as I can tell, seems to be something like abstract mathematics.
It lacks anything sensual, experiential and personal and so is incomplete.Whether in the idea of the game itself, or in the relationship between Castalia and the outside world, Or in Joseph Knechts relationships with others like plinio Designori, this novel is steeped in Hegelian dialectics.
Man’s spiritual journey and the idea of contemplation and psychological liberation, the individual and the hierarchy, and the values of tradition are some of the major themes dealt with in the novel.
This book was a really incredible meditation on accomplishment, ambition, finding peace and the breach between intellectuals and reality.
Hesse creates a reality in which an intellectual elite has created an entire society that lives above and beyond the rest of the world playing an incredibly esoteric game that seeks to connect all knowledge as a series of symbols.
There were a number of things that struck me in this world.
We are actually creating worlds that are removed from reality.
Over time this breach could become a real problem.
وغايةٌ عزَّ الوصول اليها لدى العديد من الساعين ....لعبة هدفها التقاط ذلك النور وغايتها تقوية تلك الفقاعة البراقة وتغذيتها علَّها يوما تحتوي العالم في داخلها ...
وكلٌ يرى النور في ناحية فيظن انه النور كله....وتأبى تلك الأضواء أن تكون شيئا وحده ....
واختلفت في وصفها الكلمات ....واللعبة أن تؤلف من تلك الأضواء نسيجاً...
ولكن الماجستر لودي كان يختار كرياته بحكمة ويعد لعبته قبل الموعد بأشهر ...
يتبعها تأمل من الحاضرين فلا يخرج أحدهم الا وقد لامس الأضواء مُصافحاً ومعانقاً ....********************************************كل ذلك ...
ويتراءى الرضى بين تلك الأضواء علَّنا نتخذ منه درعاً للقلوب .....
ولكني تمنيت لو اني أقطِّر من تلك الكلمات عطرا او ترياقاً ليوزع للكثيرين .....
The Glass Bead Game: Invented hundreds of years ago it combines all art and knowledge of Western culture, correlates and re-combines in infinitely combinations: world literature, sciences, fine arts, and, last but not least, music – according to fixed mathematical laws.
Castalia: The separate, secluded republic of scholars, artists, and glass bead players.
The province supplies its elite talent from the best students of the outer world and teaches them to join the austere order, to devote their life and eventually become glass bead players.
The glass bead game, to me, is so far evolved and sophisticated as it is, that even the scholars and teachers cannot provide anything of real substance.
This is a truly unforgettable classic which incorporates science fiction, adventure, philosophy and futuristic elements all into one well-written story.
As Castalians, the elite of the elite in the country's intellectual world, most of the characters have given up worldly pleasures and devote their life to the Order and Game - a 'Life of the Mind'.I really wanted to love this book (the concept of the Game was grand), but in the end I felt that something was missing - perhaps I wanted more of the actual Game, perhaps the Castalian world was too refined and complete, while being so distant from the real world, and somehow, I enjoyed reading it but maybe it was too technical and dry.Out of the three short stories, included in Joseph Knecht's Posthumous Writings after the main, biographical section, I thought the latter two, The Father Confessor and The Indian Life were great pieces.
Su Hesės stiklo karoliukais nesėkmingai bandžiau pažindintis paskutiniais mokyklos metais - pritrūkau kantrybės tada. Po penkiolikos metų su knyga susigyvenau visai kitaip - be noro bėgti puslapiais, ramiai, vis pamedituojant po įveikto skyriaus. Hesė kažką turi, ko kiti ne. Ta begalinė kūrinio ramybė lėtai besrūvanti į skaitytojo sąmonę paperka. Kai kuriais aspektais "Stiklo karoliukų žaidimas" priminė V. Mykolaičio-Putino "Altorių šešėly": pagrindinio herojaus drama ir vidų draskančiais išgyvenimais, askeze, dvasinio ir išorinio pasaulio supriešinimu. Puiki knyga, kai norisi gilesnio ir lėtesnio skaitymo, pamąstymų, filosofijos.
A friend of mine (a pure mathematician) says that the Glass Bead Game is obviously pure mathematics in a thinly disguised form.
It's not exactly a slam-dunk, but I'm still surprised how few people there are who seem to believe this theory.
You'd think it would at least be a respectable minority opinion.Turn it around: if the Game isn't pure mathematics, what is it?
Just something he made up, that doesn't refer to any real intellectual discipline in particular, but is a hypothetical synthesis of all of them?
Are there any other reasonable alternatives?
Personally, I rather like the "pure mathematics" account.
I was disappointed when I re-read this book. I remembered it as very moving and very significant. Upon re-reading I found it tedious and preachy. Hesse is trying to write a new kind of novel, one based on ideas instead of conflict. He succeeds, but the end product is boring. I also was bothered by the assumption that the life of the mind was open only to men -- women are somehow not qualified to share the glorious world of ideas. Hrmph.
a disappointment that demands reflection...
Yet these, too, could either be the budding spirituality of a noble man, or signs of conceit from an ultimate fool.I found the early parts of the book painful to read, not merely because of the dullness of our narrator or the confusion I felt in trying to untangle Hesse's philosophies, but because it is, at it's core, the story of a fairly smart guy who is given everything on a silver platter by a series of wise men who recognize how special he is.It's not merely that this left us without much conflict, it was annoying reading about someone effortlessly achieving things that sound like they would be cool to do.
Here we have Castalia, a "province" [more like the seminaries of today] where it population of masters and students devote themselves to studies, or to the "things of the mind".
But before this, the book is a long constant debate of the relevance, importance, meaning of, on the one hand, Castalia [with its "things of the mind"] vis-a-vis [or in contrast with), the outside world, with its practical sciences, its politics, its wars.By the way, the author Hermann Hesse was born in 1877 and was brought up on a missionary household where it was assumed that he would study for the ministry.
My review is based not on the book itself, as it was read it so long ago, I don't remember details, which is somewhat remarkable, as I remember the effect of the book. transformative, profound revelationary, this is the best I can manage. I was transformed into worlds of thought, deep thought, worlds where intent and meaning reigned. The book required a serious commitment from the reader of Attention and willingness-to-truth, a remarkable requirement, adding to the books magic. A classic that lived up to it billing.
It's one of those few books that made me love it deeply yet at the same time despise it entirely.
It might sound surprising, especially since this is an unanimously loved and admired book -- even awarded with the Nobel prize; it might also seem awfully arrogant of me to compare my beliefs to the wisdom of a man like Hesse.
Yet I don't know how I feel about the book.
And in the end, no matter which one I stick to, I can only admire Hesse and his Josef Knecht for awakening such powerful feelings in the depth of me.
