https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3475268-white-witch-black-curse
If there had been no Holly, I’m not convinced they would have gotten involved at all.Banshee shenanigans aside, LOTS more Big Things are going on.<——it’s kind of a trend at this point, yes?Ford (the maybe human empath) discovers that there’s a ghost in the church, and Rachel figures out that she can see the ghost, if they’re both standing in a ley line at the same time.Pretty cool, right?Until Al shows up and snatches the ghost.
At first I thought it was all of the very public confrontations with demons, but now I think it’s b/c of something else that doesn’t become an issue until the next book, so not telling.And finally, in the showdown with Mia, Rachel remembers what happened thatnightwedonotspeakof.
Not sure when there's going to be a book in this series that I do not give it 5 stars.
This one deserved every single one of them, and so did its predecessors.A child banshee unable to control her powers and a mother bringing hell on earth to keep her safe and to herself.
After the events of the last book, now that we know that every child Rachel has is going to become a demon..
Rachel and Ivy are working things out, they are again at a good place, maybe the best they've been.
I loved how Rachel kept Marshall at distance.
The 8th book in the series.
Rachel is trying to find Kistin's murderer, tag a banshee, and deal with Al/save Pierce.
Kistin's murder feels like a bookend, it's the focus of the beginning and the end of the book.
There have been plenty of things she's done in the past that might have justified it, at least from an outside point of view, so I really am not sure why Harrison decided to have her shunned for something she didn't really do and why she has Rachel accept it.
I can't count the number of times there was this cool visual image (gargoyle correcting his size by plinking out ice cubes) or interesting emotional moment (Rachel having a flashback) and I nearly missed it because of a clumsy phrase or an anvil to the head.
And this book lost major points with me for ham-handed exploitation of terminally ill children for emotional juice that it didn't even need.And yet .
And yet there are clearly even more interesting things to come, and not every last one has been semaphored fifty pages ahead of time.
I think Rachel is one hell of an admirable friend to put up with her, and I think Ivy is selfish.
That's a quality that most of Rachel's other acquaintances are sorely lacking.Trent makes a bit of a cameo (sigh!) but not much comes from it.
I love me some Trent, but he's also a selfish bastard sometimes!This installment to the Hollows didn't do much in the way of moving the story in the way that I WANT it to go, but I think I'm okay with the fact that events never unfold the way I expect OR want them to when it comes to Rachel Mariana Morgan.
So very much happens in this book, heck so much has happened in this series and you can't help but want a reprieve for this group of friends but sadly, while there are some short moments of happiness, they never seem to last long for Rachel and gang.
This book was a bit bittersweet in that we finally are getting some answers to things we have been questioning for awhile now but those answers come at a cost as they always seem to for Rachel and my heart broke numerous times for her.
That shift in how certain characters behaved, along with the fact that the plot of this book depends heavily on events that occurred in two separate short stories in two separate short story collections, plus the sudden introduction of a couple heretofore unheard-of facets of witch culture in The Hollows, made this book seem really disjointed and unconnected to the rest of the series.
So this move by Kim Harrison to suddenly make her previous short stories part of the main plot of the series as a whole really rubs me the wrong way.
Every single plot point (was there even a plot in this one?) was rehashed and repeated multiple times.
Banshee stuff because I really felt uneasy about how everyone, especially any of the Inderlanders, seemed to sorta excuse the killing of humans because eh, it's what banshees do and they gotta eat and whatever (or if not excuse, then taking it far too lightly), and the aura stuff because, again, it was repetitive ad nauseam.Anyway, I really hope it picks up for me again in the next book, but I think I might want to take a longer break from the series for now.
So happy with this book. It had some frustrating moments, but in the end I liked it so much.With all those events happening, it's one of the few series that still hold my interest, even after book 7. So curious about #8 :)
Did you take the time to read all of those Hollows short stories scattered in anthologies over the past few years?
In return, Ivy gave her the wish Rachel granted her in Dead Witch Walking.
Think back to "Two Ghosts for Sister Rachel" (Holidays Are Hell.) Yep, good old Pierce is back.
Especially as we see Rachel struggle to remember bits and pieces of the night Kisten died.
But it is back with a vengeance as Rachel finally remembers his sacrifice with heart-breaking clarity.
And while he could never replace Kisten in my heart, I did like him quite a bit in the short story.
A character doesn't have to be perfect or even likeable for me to like reading about them, but Rachel is just plain annoying, and it's hard for me to have any kind of concern for the character.
I'll probably read the next one, but I'm no longer paying for these books new.Can you tell by my ranting that I'm disappointed I'm not liking the series better?
The seventh book in the series, I found this one dragged a bit more than some of the others, although I think it ended really strong.
It also tied up a number of loose ends that had been lying around, and although a few new ones were started, this had the feel of closing a major chapter or arc before beginning a new one.This is also the first book that directly incorporates events from the novellas and short stories which have been published in anthologies (specifically Dates From Hell, Holidays Are Hell, and (I think) Hotter Than Hell), rather than just from the previous novels.
When I started this series, I wanted to punch Rachel in the face and tell her to listen to the people around her instead of going charging into a situation half cocked.
I think this is the first time that Rachel has really showed her vulnerabilities so openly, because when you think about it, her house is full of people who can’t hold her when she is upset, help her to her feet when she is down, or even come to her rescue when she needs it.
I've been reading the series since the beginning & this is book 7.
Our heroine, a witch, is still trying to do right & still coming up with nothing but problems.
Which problems get solved & which new ones will pop up is the mystery.
Hopefully, she'll end the series on a good note one day, but until then, there is plenty of fodder for new books.She's had the opportunity to go the Hamilton route & bring lots of graphic sex into the story, but hasn't.
I appreciate that.Here's the books in the Rachel Morgan series:1.
Dead Witch Walking (2004)2.
And that becomes exhausting to read.Despite that, this continues to be one of my favourite urban fantasy series, mainly because I love the Hollows world and most of its insane characters _I may even have started warming up to Ivy.Despite that, I can't help wishing that the book had been about half its size.Oh, and can't we get Rachel a therapist so that she can start dealing with her need for "Rachel candy" once and for all?
o_OWe've just got ridden ourselves from Marshall!You're telling me that in the next book, I'll have to put up with Pierce?*sigh*Why, why do I like you...you frustrating series!?
But it’s not just him because Rachel’s brother is also present throughout the novel, and it’s true that it will not be easy for her.
I was curious to see if Trent would be present, if he would make an appearance, and even if he finally doesn’t have an impact on the story, I hope we’ll have the opportunity to see him a bit more in the next volume.Rachel is changing dramatically in the novels and it’s true that she’s trying to do her best even if nothing is easy and that she does not really know how to resolve everything.
Rachel is nearly killed more than once, a ghost named Pierce is back from her past, Al is up to his usual tricks, Ivy not only blames herself for Kisten’s death but for their new banshee problem, Rachel is being called a Black Witch and is shunned, and now her mother is moving to Portland, then her full memory of what happened on Kisten’s boat comes back.
Ms. Harrison writes it in such a way that you feel it, feel everything, that the characters feel, whether it’s guilt, desperation, determination, you feel it all.Filled with mystery, action, suspense and emotions, White Witch, Black Curse is more than your typical roller coaster ride with characters that you love - and love to hate.
I'm a huge fan of The Hollows, but this was definitely the weakest installment.Rachel's shunned, cast aside as a black which in her community.
It also helped that Harrison alluded to Book 9 being a book with a lot of focus on Trent.I don't know about anybody else, but I sort of started to like Al a bit in this book, and not in a "he's a cool villain" kind of way.
The Hollows as a whole is my favorite series, but I definitely don't recommend starting with this book.
I am definitely hoping for the next book to be a bit better.
But it was rather disappointing.In past books, the series moved onward by slowly revealing new layers and facets of the society and Rachel's situation.
They bring out the Banshees (a dull species worthy of Stephanie Meyer.) They solve the mystery of Kisten's death (but it was exactly what they thought it would be in the past books.) Nothing really happens with Al except he decides to leave her alone for awhile.
every witch mumbles and moves away from her because they think she's black.She does not kick anyone's butt.
This instalment seemed a little darker than some of the previous books in the series.
I liked the banshee story and I'm eager for the next book where Mia will be the major antagonist.
I'm also happy that (view spoiler)[Kisten finally can rest in peace and Rachel is ready to let go of him (hide spoiler)].
I loved how Rachel/Ivy relationship got stronger through this.And if you took the time to read all of those Hollows short stories it's worth it for this book.
That's why I like the end so very much!
I couldn't really remember any of this book at all so it was quite like reading it for the first time. As usual, I was hooked with the adventures of Rachel and co. The ending was utterly heartbreaking, and I was devastated for Rachel and Ivy, though at least they got some closure. Re-reading this series has been such fun, I'm both anticipating and dreading getting to the end.
This one was pretty epic. Lots of twists and turns, a lot of backstory revealed, some new/returning characters brought into the mix and developed, and a lot of Al hijinks. Fun fun!
Back to top form.
3 1/2 starsSo Rachel has been getting on my nerves lately. This girl just has waaaaay to much drama and the stuff with guys in her life is a bit ridiculous but I’m also still upset about the whole Kistan thing. So it was like rubbing salt in a wound when all they did was talk about Kistan in this book and then when Rachel finally remembered the memory she had spelled to forget, that just gutted me and is not helping me move on with this new story plot! I will still press on though.
The world-building, the not-at-all-black-or-white-but-totally-grey characters, the plot and twists and some of the best lines ever, make the whole series a pleasure to read!Nothing is easy for Rachel for one more time.
She worries all the time that her problems will affect everyone she loves and it’s easy to see that, although, many people care about her, she feels lonely.Jenks is the best character in the whole series!
The fact that he was repeating that he’s very small, told me that he doesn’t like to feel helpless and he wants to be an even better partner.Ivy is a very complicated character and she’s very lonely.
I thought I would be unhappy that Trent is hardly in the book.
I thought Marshall was going to turn out like Nick and screw Rachael over.
I just love when I find a series that's mostly published or finished.As with the previous book, Rachael needed to do some literal and figurative attic cleaning.
I believe the old Rachael was not ready for the things Ms. Harrison will throw her way in upcoming books.
Nick will never worm his way back in her heart, Kristen is gone, Marshall headed for the hills, and Pierce is a ghost.
Al says something along the lines of "But he is Rachel candy..." I can't remember now if it was a statement or a question, but assuredly it is hilarious.
yeah I know if your 7 books in you should already have a reason, but Rachel is one of the most whiny rhymes with witchy character.
HURRAY!!Rachel Morgan is dense, she can't afford her rent currently, can't do much, whines about Al, but wants to get more proficent with Lay Lines as seen in the last book where she tried to pay for school...
Rachel Morgan...
I don't think I could choose a favorite from this series but this installment is near the top.It's action packed and a fast paced read.
She really goes though a lot of tolls, both emotionally and physically in this book and I felt really attached to her character.
There is also a great short story featuring Jenks and Bis in the Anthology Unbound that really gives you that Hollows addiction a kick until the next book.
I cannot wait to read BLACK MAGIC SANCTION in 2010, her books never disappoints!
The Hollows is a Urban Fantasy series must!
Another amazing book in this series!Rachel, Ivy and Jenks have a lot to deal with in this one.Mia, the banshee, was a formidable opponent and I was so happy when she and her creepy husband Remus were finally behind bars!
3.5[Reseña Pendiente]
