https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146137.The_Essential_Hemingway
Hemmingway, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1954 most definitely experienced a significant amount of war and times of uncertainty in his lifetime - this forms a major portion of the material he uses. The verdict: I read through all 500 pages or so and did not enjoy the book as much as I was expecting to. At the end of each chapter I sat asking the question: so what? I guess its just like people say: different strokes for different folks.
Yep, this is the Hemingway to read - a best of, really, but you don't necessarily need more than that.With such a seemingly simple, paratactic style, I at first questioned - how could he be considered a "genius"?
Florid Nabokov is "genius", labyrinthine Joyce is "genius" - Hemingway just seems to write what he sees!
But he is a genius, or at least I'm a big big fan of his, despite all the feminist criticism (I think they miss the point - I think he embraces castration as much as you would like to enact it upon him).
I haven't read anything quite so good for a while now.
I started this book expecting to love it considering all the praise that I have heard about Hemingway and also because of the fact that I have read and liked many quotes from him, but sadly, I did not. I really had to push myself to even finish it and am glad that I read this book before diving into one of his full-length novels. I think I will stick to reading his quotes from now on.
A major writer, I know, but.... I read 'Fiesta', an aimless novel in which the main characters drink a great deal and generally are rude to each other. There are bullfights too. Read the next one, a chapter from another novel in which an ambulance driver inWWI was on the run. Gave it up then.
If you have never had the chance to read Hemingway this is the perfect book for you. The selection of readings are the perfect introductions to his works and have inspired me to read more.
A good introduction to the master of the short sentence. One of the finest American writers of the 20th Century. Hemingway should be on everyone's book shelf.

I find his stories are vastly better than his novels, perhaps because it has more pointed character development in his shorter fiction. All in all, I can see the appeal of his style but I am not as entertained as I had hoped to be.
the book doesn't include THE WHOLE COLLECTION of ernest work
Early (1924-1941) HemingwayI suspect that if you love Hemingway it is the very late (e.g. the Paris memoir A Moveable Feast) and the very early (the vignettes in our time & the later expanded In Our Time ) that were probably the cause of that love.
They were for me in any case.The Essential Hemingway is a 1947 U.K. anthology edition first published by Jonathan Cape and reissued by a few other publishers since that time but apparently never updated.
100 pgs) and 25 short stories w/ 15 vignettes interspersed (i.e. the complete "In Our Time" and several other short stories) (c.
How I love you!Somehow, and I'm not going to enter into too many details, my reading 'Essential Hemingway' was very much like my first relationship - he was the most beautiful and the smartest guy I've ever known.
And we split, though there was still love there.
I loved reading Hemingway, but I simply had to leave some of his short stories in this volume un-read (if I'm allowed).
It was like that kind of love you need to get rid of, or you die.
Yes, I'll read Hemingway again, but for now, I'll just have some Simone de Beauvoir (ironic, isn't it?)
Very much a book of its time with themes of drinking, parties, bullfighting, war, hunting and fishing.
I am not sure if I would like to read the full versions of the books which had excerpts in these collections 'a farewell to arms', ' to have and have not' and 'for whom the bell tolls'.
I found the writing about the men in the war stories very moving - it was a difficult time for all of them and yet they also had the comradeship with their colleagues.Hemingway shows his joy in these ways of life in the way he describes them, even when what he describes is unpleasant or difficult.
October 15, 2013: I purchased this for the purpose of readin the short stories "In Our Time" so this rating reflects that section only. I can appreciate Hemingway's writing. In many ways, I find myself thinking he is very good because he achieves he goal of writing whatbis true. That said, his abrupt style makes it very difficult for me to engage with his characters and care what is happening to them.I continue to struggle with the short story format. The main thought I had was "at least I'm done."
It didn't quite reach my expectations. I just don't think it's my style of writing. I like how he introduces characters but some of his character descriptions I've found repetitive and the dialogue doesn't flow as easily as I'd like. He reminds me of Salinger, but I prefer Steinbeck. A great writer though and I'll keep plodding through for a few more of the short stories at the end.Also Paris lovers may enjoy this. I've been but still couldn't follow all of the geographical references.
Hindi ko alam, baka hindi lang ito ang tamang panahon para basahin ko si Hemingway. Baka masyado pa akong immature para maapreciate ang kanyang katha. Hindi ko maintindihan kung saan papunta ang kuwento sa kanyang istorya, hindi ko alam kung saan ako dadalhin. Para ako nitong idinuduyan sa hangin sa gaan ng kanyang mga salita pero hahanapin mo pa rin kung saan ka ba niya tinatahak, at nawala ako doon. Siguro itatabi ko muna ito at muling bubuklatin sa mga susunod na panahon, pag handda na ako.
Originaalkeeles Hemingway lugemine on ettevõtmine, võiks öelda suisa, et keeruline ettevõtmine.Kuna tegemist on kogumikuga, siis on terviklikku hinnangut üsna keeruline anda. Kindlasti meeldis mulle kogumikus täispikana esindatud romaan "Ja päike tõuseb". Lühijuttude ja ülejäänud romaanikatkete osas oli emotsioon aga väga kõikuv, sest mõne lugemine nõudis ikka siirast pingutust.
there were only a few of the short stories that i liked personally. his iceberg writing style is interesting and enjoyable on the whole but i feel like i just do not connect with most of his stories on a level of interest. i know each of his stories are unique, but the reoccuring dominant themes of war and just that time period are usually boring to me.
She opened up the laptop. It was a nice laptop. She pressed the button to take the laptop out of standby. She went to the tab with GoodReads and found the book."I don't like this style of writing at all," she wrote. "I think I can safely conclude I don't like Hemingway."
It's Pappa, why would be anything different than Great Readsand re-reads and more re-reads.
I read the stories from 'In Our Time'.
part of my quest to read all of Hemingway I can get my hands on.
I was disappointed. Too high an expectation of Hemingway, perhaps. Not too fond of tales 'without heads or tails'.
Hemingway cuts through a story like a hot knife through butter.
Worst and most random compilation I have ever come across. Unclear how shoving three random chapters from A Farewell to Arms into the middle of the book seemed like a good idea
Book was good. Skipped a few chapters that were taken from other Hemingway books.
I didn't finish this book. Maybe I will come back to it later and hopefully I will like it more.
Really wanted to like it. Alas.
I've always found him more of a "man's kinda writer" and did so with this one. My husband loved it.
Didn't realize this was mostly novel excerpts when I picked it up - that was a bit disappointing. Certainly my fault, not the publication's.
