https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78463.Ghost_and_Horror_Stories
all hail Ambrose Bierce! an American original. aka "Bitter Bierce" - a soldier, government agent, journalist, short story writer, satirist, social critic. his life bookended by two wars: at age 19 in the American Civil War (most notably, fighting in the Battle of Shiloh) and at age 71 as a witness to Pancho Villa's revolutionary efforts in Mexico (most notably... vanishing without a trace).gaze upon the dapper don: Bierce was a misanthrope of the first order and his scornful critiques of anythin
aka "Bitter Bierce" - a soldier, government agent, journalist, short story writer, satirist, social critic.
plus Bierce's malicious sarcasm is notably absent, replaced with a dreamy but slightly bitter sort of lyricism.Moxon's Master must have been channeled by the equally infernal Thomas Ligotti because it contains all of that author's ideas around the working man = a cog in a sinister machine, within a brief story that is mainly comprised of menacing, barely explicated innuendo.Some Haunted Houses is less of a story collection and more of a journalistic account of various, wait for it, haunted houses.
This book gets five stars all around. By reading these stories I can see how Bierce inspired Lovcraft. Sometimes if you close your eyes and forget that it is a Lovecraft tale, Bierce comes shining through.Bierce is often forgotten when it comes to late 19th century writers. I hope that the situation can be rectified.
For the modern reader, “bitter” Ambrose Bierce is either that guy who wrote “An Occurrence At Own Creek Bridge” (which you were required to read in school but pretended to be surprised at the dozens of films that recycled its twist) or he's the guy you read about on Wikipedia in connection to a more recent dead author who may have read or pretended to (you know who you are). In either case, the reality of his prose is a pleasant surprise.  E.F. Bleiler's introduction to this Dover edition is an
For the modern reader, “bitter” Ambrose Bierce is either that guy who wrote “An Occurrence At Own Creek Bridge” (which you were required to read in school but pretended to be surprised at the dozens of films that recycled its twist) or he's the guy you read about on Wikipedia in connection to a more recent dead author who may have read or pretended to (you know who you are).
Bierce's stories can be mannered and some of the ghost stories end up a tad mechanical in their formatting.
The most notable of these stories is "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge" (1890) which was filmed in France as a black and white silent short in 1963 and broadcast on television's Twilight Zone in 1964 at which time I probably saw it with my father.
Years later, after a friend and I had started a youth movement in our hometown, we came back to this story and the film based on it.
The day started with booths and acts and art and clowns, the late afternoon featured bands, the evening featured movies projected (thanks to Mr. Lindquist who was in the business and provided the equipment) onto an enormous screen suspended between trees.
I love this guy!
I came to Bierce late in life but I soon made up for lost time. Excellent collection of his stories.
One of the faces on the Mt. Rushmore of Horror and Weird Tales.
Oh, these are so, so good. Up there with Poe.
The jurors were trying to figure out what happened to the man.
Hugh Morgan was a timid writer and like to hunt.
William Hankers was a very strong writer and saw what happened to his friend.
He woke up to his friend screaming and then he saw the thing.
The thing ran off and he went to go see his friend, or what was left of him.
I liked the book a lot.
I would recommend this book to anyone who likes scary stuff.
Some things in this book will have a person wondering what going to happen next.
As good as Poe, and one can see the influence it had on Lovecraft.
Not just in Lovecraft's appropriation of Carcosa, but in the selective sequence of events leading to a dramatic end.
Distinctly American, with settings like the Civil War and Westward expansion.
"John Bartine's Watch" seems to contain some prophetic lines of the authors real fate as he went to report on the Mexican Civil War; "Not the slenderest clew to his fate was ever found.
After the war the most diligent inquiry and the offer of large rewards failed to turn up any of his captors or any fact conceding his disappearance.
Most of these stories feel very dated -- they are not the sort of ghost stories that would scare anyone today, and you have to imagine what it must have been like to live in the 1800s and hear these kind of "Unsolved Mysteries" creepy rumors around the campfire.
Usually there is not a complex story arc.
It is just: Once upon a time, there were some people and these coincidences happened, and then they realized that the other people were ALREADY DEAD.
Boo!
One story was ahead of its time: "Moxon's Master," about an AI robot that plays chess.
Since I'm on the subject of ghost stories, Ambrose Bierce is one of the few Victorians who still hold up today--even if it's much easier for us, as a modern audience, to spot the twist, as so many ghost stories since have borrowed from Bierce. There's the famous "Occurence at Owl Creek Bridge," of course, but by far the best, to me, is "The Moonlit Road." It's hard to say exactly why this story, in particular, is so strangely and sadly haunting.
WOW...That was my comment throughot the entire book...Ambrose Bierce is indeed the master of gothic stories and a genius narrator...His sarcasm is hidden wisely and noticeable only to careful readers...Read these stories early in the morning, just after sunrise,if possible after a sleepless night, trust me. =)
My number one favorite for horror/fear/scary whatever ya wanna call it stories! His civil war creepers are my favorite. I read this book over and over and was sad to finish it each time. I love the damn thing.
I read this at age 21 deep in the stacks at my university library late at night while listening to the Dark Knight soundtrack. I scared myself so badly that I had to go find people to remind myself that they are only stories.
Sooo wonderfully creepy!
Fairly interesting short stories. Not scary, but interesting. Very similar to Poe's style of writing.
After reading this collection of stories I can safely say I am not really a fan of Bierce’s prose.
At best, occasional tales are sometimes clever and wry, at worst dry and at times incomprehensible pretentious wafflings.So many of the stories just merge into one another and there were so many repetitions, similarities and lack of any real development I often found I was reading the words on the page without actually taking any of it in, not engaged with the writing at all.These are snippets really, just sketches of ideas.
Not my kind of writing, and overall they fall flat, being uncaptivating and lacking substance.
Bierce is better at writing about ghosts and strange disappearances than he is at Twilight Zone-esque science fiction horror, but fortunately the former comprises the bulk of the selection in this book.I'm never sure how to review the contents of an anthology, so perhaps I should pick my top 5 favorites:"The Damned Thing"I liked the reveal in the last segment of the contents of the journal about what the "thing" was, although I was a bit confused whether the person giving testimony earlier was on trial for the dead man's murder, or if he was just there to give evidence."A Watcher by the Dead"Classic story of a practical joke gone awry, but it kept me guessing until the end who the one who died really was.
The Death of Halpin Frayser ~ ★★★Moxon’s Master ~ ★★★★Beyond the Wall ~ ★★★The Damned Thing ~ ★★★The
It had some brilliant tales; Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge, The Left Toe of The Right Foot, etc. Tales that I would easily rate 5 stars individually. However, it also had some tales that, while well-written, were almost forgetful. Overall, however, I enjoyed the collection.
It's great to get into pre-lovecraftian horror and tales of the fantastic. Mr. Bierce has a serious knack for the sardonic and a truly subtle twist in words.
Some of the stories are really good, but others get too predictable. Look for some of his greats like "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge," "The Middle Toe of the Right Foot," and "The Damned Thing."
This one scared the crap out of me. Bravo!
I'll give it four stars instead of five simply because there might be a more perfect collection of his stories out there somewhere.
Bierce is a master of art and language; not a word wasted.
.5, when the introduction harps on how bad the author's writing will be and then you read the first story and it is that bad, it is time to abandon the book. I'm not one to quit books, but this one was rough. The mystery of Bierce's life is cool, but his writing at least in this context is that bad.
This is a great book if you like stories about ghost and paranormal things a very great read if you ask me I would recommend this so someone else who is in to these types of things now if your not in to things like This then I would not recommend it but very good book overall
omg i almost peed me pants
Other than the story where the guy beats his robot at chess, only for it to strangle him, I found most of the stories boring.
