https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188506.Raising_Your_Spirited_Child
Is is too much of an exaggeration to say this book saved my life? Well, perhaps it is, but in all honesty, this book improved my quality of life and helped me understand my 3 year old's personality. My child is definitely more intense and sensitive than many other children--but now I've learned to value and appreciate her in a new way. I also know how to be an advocate for her in preschool and future school settings. Seriously, I am a better mommy due to the facts and advice found in this book.
warning: this review is kind of long because I want to remember certain things before I return this to the library.I have had this book recommended to me by several people but had never read it because I didn't think my kids were "spirited".
secretly needed to talk with other parents who understood what is was like to live with a child who could scream for 45 minutes because his toast had been cut in triangles when he was expecting rectangles." That has happened several times in our house so, when I read that, I knew this book was for me.
The self-scoring section was helpful in giving me a general idea of where my kid fell on the scale and making me realize that she is perhaps more spunky than spirited and that normal discipline methods probably still apply.
I did glean one or two helpful things from the book, the most useful of which has been her instruction not to use "Please" when issuing directives and to use as few words of possible (i.e. Not "Please get in your seat now so we can go" but "Seat.
MY NOTES/QUOTES/AND USEFUL BITS: This is called the Pygmalion Effect and has been well documented by researchers. The reality is that children learn what hey are from others in their lives. Think about ht e spirited children you know. What words do you use to describe them? Do they sound like the million-dollar words created by advertising companies, words that can make you wish you could have even more children who are spirited? Are they the kind of descriptors that would make others envy you t
In other words, kids who like themselves, behave themselves.Page 32	Once children have learned to respond to the cues their bodies are sending them and understand time-out as a healthy opportunity to deal with their stress, they can call for one themselves.
If you want your child to do something and don’t wish to debate it, be sure your message is a clear direction: “It’s time for bed,” “You may play in the yard,” “It’s time to leave,” “Wash your hands before eating,” “and “The rule is you must wear shoes in school.” These are all straightforward directives.
Really helped me understand him and better deal with some of the issues we were having.
Having read this book after a few months of me changing my patterns and the things we did he became a different child.
Great reference book.It was a relief for me to read this book, having been accused of having an A.D.D, ADHD, full on hypo child, to being ostracised at play group, gym tots, little kickers soccer etc it made me realise that I was getting my son to par take in activities that would over stimulate him as he was unable to take control of his emotions.
As I continued, what stood out, even beyond the helpful advice and tips for handling the intense traits of a spirited child, was her positive perspective.
I was able to shed the burden I was feeling about having a "spirited" child and look at these traits and challenges as a very special gift.
That's where she breaks down her definition of "spirited" into separate temperamental components and what they look like, and then how to respond in a positive way.
The practical advice is the meat of the book.Along the way not only did I learn about parenting, but I learned about myself, my childhood, my marriage, and about relationships in general.
Kurcinka emphasizes that those larger-than-life size reactions your preschooler are having come from her real reactions to things and that understanding the temperamental sources of some of those reactions (like being slow to adapt to a new situation or being high energy and needing to move) can allow you to handle them better and to facilitate them where you can and redirect them where you can't.
I suspect that Kurcinka would say that when we narrate emotional management and highlight collaborative problem-solving, we give the child the tools to handle those threatening or difficult situations on their own.
My sister Amy recommended this book when Ellie was a toddler, she'd had a friend who'd used it with her son and loved it.
I'm a "mellow" person, and so was Hannah, so when "spunky" Megan and "spirited" Ellie came into our family, I just didn't know how to deal with their needs (and they really are needs, not just whims.) One of the best parts was about Introverts and Extroverts, and how some people need to be around other people to "refuel" (me and the other kids) and some people need to be alone to "refuel" (Jerem and Ellie!) Very educating!
In fact, I'm going to make my husband read this because I think there are some really important observations we can use to be better parents for our spunky/spirited child.
There are parts of the book that don't apply to us, which I think would be the case for many parents.
Overall, though, I found this book to be one that spoke to me about a kid like mine in ways I found positive and reassuring.I do wish that there were more examples of how to handle discipline, tantrums, etc.
All in all, I think this will be a book I come back to often in the coming days/weeks/months.
А надзвичайні діти - це такі, які ніби звичайні, тобто без психічних розладів чи інших важких хвороб, але все ж якісь...
Але ж дитина просто має такий рівень енергії, і питання не в тому, як її приборкати, а як навчити жити з такою енергійністю.Авторка вчить правильному ставленню: як сприймати, як переформульовувати "проблемні" риси в позитивні - не впертість, а завзятість, не вибуховість, а пристрасність.
Раджу всім, у кого надзвичайні діти, а також всім, у кого ніби нема особливих проблем з вихованням, але бувають епізоди...
Бо всі діти надзвичайні.
I am working on changing my own labels of Toby.
ha, ha.I like that this book has summaries of each chapter, so if you don't have time to read the entire thing you can at least read the one-page summaries.
I loved that it was about real parents - real stories about real kids.
I might also look for a more recent edition next time I'm in the bookstore (I read the 1998 edition, not sure if there are newer ones out there.) One of the best parenting books I have ever read.
I began this with a lot of cynicism, since every other parenting book I'd ever read seemed to be talking about a child quite different than mine.
Fortunately, this book made a huge impact on me, my husband, and the way we understand and appreciate our daughter.
I love that the book's premise isn't to "fix" your child - it unapologetically says, "this is who your kid is, you can't change 'em, so this is how you learn to cope and appreciate them." What a refreshing thought!
As an added bonus, I never expected to read a book in order to help me understand my child and, along the way, gain so much understanding of myself!
I got my answer in the first chapter of this book when I took a quiz that surprised me.
After the quiz to identify whether or not my child was spirited, I was surprised to find a quiz to discover if I was spirited.
When I discovered that I am a spirited parent, that was all I needed to know.
We have an exceptionally close relationship, in large part, because of the realization I made about myself in this book, which changed the way I parented my sweet baby boy.


Good strategies for all parents.
While I don't think my son falls into the truly "spirited" category, many of the attributes outlined in the book did apply to him and it was good to read a bit more about facets of his personality and temperament.
That has helped me to stay calmer, a lot calmer.Kurcinka's writing style makes her tips and techniques accessible to a broad spectrum of parents.
Many times I found myself reading other parents' tales and thinking, "Phew...I am not the only one!" In reality, this book reminded me that my son is a normal kid, with slightly higher energy and perceptiveness than his peers.
Якщо я скажу, що знайшла, нарешті, книгу про виховання, яку радитиму й даруватиму усім знайомим батькам, ви мені повірите?
І якщо "Французьке виховання" Памели Дракермен (мамський хіт позаминулого літа) сприйнявся з багатьма правками стосовно місця, часу, традицій, звичок тощо, то поради американської лікарки-педіатра й відомого тренера з виховання дітей мені особисто як мамі вже стають у пригоді практично в повному обсязі.Зізнаюся, спочатку я чомусь вирішила, що мова йтиме про те, як виховати зі звичайної динини надзвичайну.
А ще з’ясувалося, що практично всіх сучасних дітей можна назвати "надзвичайними" – емоційними, чутливими, занадто інтро- чи екстравертивними тощо.

I found the first part of this book, which consists of detailed descriptions of the temperamental traits of spirited children, very interesting, and definitely worth reading. It gave me a great deal of insight into my daughter, myself, and the dynamics within our family. The second part of the book, which attempts to teach the parent how to live with the spirited child, however, was a huge disappointment to me. I simply do not agree with the author's philosophy or methods, and thus there was really very little, if any, advice that I would use.
Take him back, please!" I also had terrible postpartum depression at the time, which made everything worse than it already was, plus my son had one of the five worst cases of colic I've ever heard of, and I've heard a LOT of stories of people trying to sympathize but being unable to even imagine the hell we went through in our son's first year.(By the way, we feel like our son's nature contributed to the colic and other first-year problems, which is part of why the book has been able to help.
Overall pretty good, fairly helpful. Loved the part where it talks about how those traits that make your child a little difficult at times are going to make them be very successful adults one day. It was a great reminder to carry on in patience and help them turn their weaknesses into strengths.
I'm not alone! There are other sensitive children out there with parents who are struggling like I am. This book gave me some good ideas about how to approach situations with my son.
Great adviceI will be referring back to this one a lot. Lots of really useful examples, that can applied in every day life.
Чудова книжка, моя оцінка 5+. Рекомендую батькам, які хоч раз подумали "у всіх діти, як діти, а у мене невідомо що". Почала більше розуміти власну дитину, побачила її справді чуттєву і наполегливу сторону, а не тільки вередливу дитину, якій не комфортні шкарпетки :)
I've learned that my son is perceptive, and slow to adapt, and serious/analytical in his mood, even though he is not 'spirited', he does frustrate me, and this book has helped me understand him better.
We can set the scene for a more successful day, and we can encourage them to deal with their own temperaments and learn how to handle it, over time.
This will not sit well with parents who feel that kids should just learn to obey without question.
I also liked that the author recognizes that the same things will NOT work with different kids, and I think that's what's lacking in many other parenting books.
Forgot to mark this one "read" after my kindle loan ran out and I bought a hard copy to finish it. Gosh I should have read this book years ago. What wonderful insight into how your "spirited" child's brain works and what tools and techniques work in different situations. Wonderful book. I think it would incredibly helpful even if your child is not "spirited".
I have at least 2 highly spirited children (the jury's still out on the baby), and a friend recommended this book to me.
This book would have been supremely helpful back then, since it helps you figure out what the heck is wrong with your kid and reassures you that it's not something you did.However, reading it with an 8 year old and a 4 year old, I found it extremely UNhelpful.
I guess it's just supposed to be reassuring for the newly horrified parents of highly spirited toddlers that they are not at fault, and that they are not alone.
"The word that distinguishes spirited children from other children is MORE."I came to this book at a low moment in my parenting journey.
I thought, "thank god I'm not the only one" and "it's not just me sucking as a parent".
Being a parent is an incredibly hard role for which you get no training in advance and a multitude of advice which may or may not have any bearing on your own reality.
Having discovered RIE (thank god) when my daughter was about 6 months old, a lot of the techniques in this book are not new to me but there is much useful advice here.
In the opening chapter there's a paragraph that summarizes life for me (and I'll paraphrase) "when this kind of kid is happy, we're all happy.
On the bad days, you want to hide under a rock." Reading this book, I felt I was not the only parent who struggles to live daily with a child who is very intense and sensitive (in ever sense of the word).
In this book I learned about the importance of using positive language, learning how to plan the day, how to read my son's cues, how to protect him from a world that's just to overwhelming for him at times.
