https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6892870-the-girl-who-kicked-the-hornet-s-nest
One message was from his mother and two more were shipping notices for books he'd purchased from Amazon.com.
I don't read legal thrillers but I love courtroom scenes in movies, especially when judges say stuff like "I'm going to allow it, but you'd better be going somewhere with this." No one says that here, but only because apparently you can do whatever the fuck you want in a Swedish courtroom without bothering to talk to the judge at all.
And I wish Stieg didn't eat quite so many of the fatty sandwiches and Billy's pan pizzas he loved detailing so much (hey, write what you know).
What I learned from this book (in no particular order):1. You can use duct tapes to close up serious wounds; they keep the blood in and the germs out.2. You can be shot in the head and STILL have photographic memory, though annoyingly, you will forget the solution to that pesky Fermat's Theorem that you have just discovered.3. Congenital analgesia is a useful condition to have for mafia henchmen and Bond villains.4. Muscular, one meter eighty-four tall Latina policewomen who can out-wrestle a ma
”The majority of poison pen artists were either teenagers or the middle-aged.” Only people between 26 and 54 years of age are crazy enough to become stalkers.9.
Meatballs with potatoes and Lingonberry sauce are good Swedish food.BUT SERIOUSLY,this final book in the Millennium Trilogy is a let down compared to its predecessors.
Salander herself spent the majority of her time on a hospital bed, convalescing from the shot in the head that she received from Zalachenko.
Still, if you have read them, you will want to read this one too, if only to get a satisfying ending for Salander, Blomkvist and other characters that we have came to know from the series.
(A-) 82% | Very GoodNotes: A predictable outcome with no real surprises along the way, but characters are well drawn and the pace never slows.
You have forced me to bang my head on the wall, pull my hair, throw your books at the end of the room, and then pick it up again and read it like a mad woman, totally forgetting the outside world.
I am glad that I won’t have to go through all of the emotional drama again, experience all the turmoil, and feel kinship for Salander.I am happy and I am inexplicably sad.This book was clearly not how you planned to end the series.
I feel very sad that you died without seeing what a sensation your books became, how the memorable characters you created will forever be etched into the mind of us readers.
”Salander was afraid of no-one and nothing. She realized that she lacked the necessary imagination--and that was evidence enough that there was something wrong with her brain.” Noomi Rapace plays Lisbeth Salander in the excellent Swedish trilogy. She takes the bad girl goth look farther than even Joan Jett.Even if Lisbeth Salander had been raised in a “normal” environment of a white picket fence, with a swing in the backyard, a dad flipping burgers in a haze of barbecue smoke, and a smiling, sun
She takes the bad girl goth look farther than even Joan Jett.Even if Lisbeth Salander had been raised in a “normal” environment of a white picket fence, with a swing in the backyard, a dad flipping burgers in a haze of barbecue smoke, and a smiling, sundress wearing mother, she would have been abnormal.
So Salander is in the hospital recovering from wounds sustained near the end of book two.
As I read this book I thought about why I, like so many others, find Salander such a compelling character.
Another short review due to glitches on GR! Lisbeth is recovering in the hospital but she has to go to court because she is being charged with the murder of her rapist. Who cares if she did in my opinion. Mikael and the gang are also trying to get things pinned on Lisbeth's evil father and such as well. Lisbeth goes to trial to prove she's innocent in this matter. She's just too cool. Fin
After finishing The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet’s Nest, the last of the Millennium Trilogy by the late Stieg Larsson, I have a great desire to order a tray of sandwiches and coffee, fire up my 13 inch MacBook Pro, and order some Ikea furniture online.
Larsson has created some characters that will live in world literature for some time.
This was so much more than a spy thriller, or a murder mystery or even a legal drama, this was a fascinating character study, psychological thriller and all the other genre specific labels rolled into one.
“If love is liking someone an awful lot, then I suppose I'm in love with several people.”This book is utterly outstanding.
I mean, I knew that book 1&2 were amazing, but as I said before, a few years had passed since I last read them.The characters alone are fantastic.
The size of the cast and the many POVs could easily be confusing, but Larsson gives them such shape and character that they are easily recognisable and very compelling.
This whole book wouldn't work if it didn't have so many characters telling its story.The plot twists killed me (and not only me).
At times, when his dialogues turn romantic, they turn cliché-like and slightly unrealistic.
And it is a crying shame because Salander has quickly become one of my all-time favorite characters.This one picks up almost immediately after the events of The Girl Who Played With Fire, and I can’t say much about the plot without spoiling that one.
Of course, his biggest headache will be convincing the pain-in-the-ass Salander to cooperate in trying to save herself.Oddly enough, each book in the trilogy reads like a different type of genre story.
While Blomkvist and the supporting characters are all engaging enough, it’s Lisbeth that made these books a cut above the normal mystery/crime thrillers.
On the other hand it is not fair to write two brilliant books and then publish a 600 pages long epilogue without much of a new story, either.600 pages look like a long story, but if you skip the 300 cups of coffees Micke and his friends make, stir and drink, if you skip the complete index of the Stockholm city-map and if you skip the subplot of Erika and her stalker (which yields nothing to the main story) it boils down to 250 pages at most.Some trivia questions you will answer completely wrong if you have not read this book:1.
Español - EnglishLisbeth no está muerta, pero esta gravemente herida con una bala en el cerebro.
Esta interna en el mismo centro que otro paciente muy peligroso que la persigue, Zalachenko.Desde la cama y pese a su estado, usa sus habilidades informáticas para ayudar a Mikael en la investigación.Mikael sabe que no puede dejar la libertad y como se encuentra Lisbeth en manos del Estado, ya que sobre ella pesan graves acusaciones.Pero aun falta una persona mas detras de Lisbeth...----Lisbeth is not dead, but she is badly injured with a bullet in her brain.
Edited to include link to Nora Ephron's very funny piece ("The Girl Who Fixed the Umlaut") from The New Yorker:http://www.newyorker.com/humor/2010/0... D E P R E S S I O N… You’re probably depressed when, in the space of 3 or 4 weeks, you leave the house only when absolutely necessary, and read about 30 books – 90% of which are crap, including 15 books by Harlan Coben, a grade Z mystery writer. Even worse, you read Coben’s entire Myron Bolitar series, which is the equivalent of reading the same
Throughout the first two books, and for the first third of the last book, we get a steady array of sandwiches complete with descriptions of their ingredients.
One sandwich – toast with orange marmalade, cheese, and avocado – sounded so interesting that it prompted one of my few ventures out of the house so that I could get the ingredients.
Lisbeth Salander is an interesting character, and her slim presence in the third book contributed to its sluggish pace.Larsson’s books are escapist literature to be sure, but a few steps up from Harlan Coben.
This is the third (completed) novel of what Stieg had hoped would be a ten-volume opus.
At the end of the last book, Lisbeth Salander had been shot by her evil and well-toasted natural father, a former Soviet spy who had been granted immunity in Sweden in return for handing over information.
Journalist Mikael Blomkvist joins with other investigators, public and private, to get to the bottom of why the dastardly Zalachenko was officially protected for so many years, and why Lisbeth Salander was forced to pay a harsh price for his existence.
I loved the Millennium trilogy. I hate that I've now read every novel written by Steig Larsson.
Book Review  4+ of 5 stars to The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest, the third book in the trilogy written by Stieg Larsson shortly before he died. The series has been picked up by another author who's published book 4 and set to release number 5 later this year. This is my second favorite of the series, as nothing can compare to the first one, as it focused on family history and genealogy. Lisbeth is so tragic. And you want her to get revenge. And what happens to her over the course of a life
Book Review
4+ of 5 stars to The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest, the third book in the trilogy written by Stieg Larsson shortly before he died.
The series has been picked up by another author who's published book 4 and set to release number 5 later this year.
And you want her to get revenge.
And what happens to her over the course of a lifetime, let alone the last few years, is more than anyone one person should endure.
These are not easy books to read...
Larsson must plan his books for months...
Great series of books.
She complained that no one loved Lisbeth, and I replied that I loved her even more after hearing all those dismissive comments - that was the point, wasn't it?Then, a few minutes ago, I was struck by one of those thoughts that really make you wonder why you haven't had them months earlier.
I don't want to drop spoilers, but there are some interesting resonances with the Millennium trilogy; in particular, it's also possible to view Nicole Kidman's character as an unusual kind of female Christ figure, who, at least IMHO, has a certain amount in common with Salander.
Mr. Larsson, wherever you are, thank you for your magnificent story telling which, like your life, ended too abruptly and much too soon.
ایشان طرح نوشتن ده جلد رمان را، در سر داشتند؛ اما تنها فرصت نوشتن سه رمان کامل: «دختری با خال کوبی اژدها»، «دختری که با آتش بازی کرد»، و «دختری که با تبهکارها درافتاد» (دختری که به لانه زنبورهای قرمز لگد زد)، و یک رمان ناتمام را پیدا کرد؛ رمانی که قرار شد توسط نویسنده ای دیگر، کامل شود.
گویا این رخداد همزمان با مرگ ناگهانی «لارسون» بود، چون مدتی بعد این دوست او بود، که دستنوشته های «لارسن» را، که ظاهراً درست خوانده نشده بودند، پس گرفت، و به ناشری دیگر سپرد.
There were several emails from Meghan Fang and a few from the girls in her book club.
I just don't care what a character has for dinner.The book picks up minutes after The Girl who Played with Fire leaves off, and while there are parts of it that are very fast-paced, there are many more parts that drag.
Among some of the things that could have been edited: the aforementioned chapter on the Section, the subplot in which Erika Berger has a stalker which has absolutely nothing to do whatsoever with the rest of the story and seemed to exist solely to give Berger something to do, and the romance between Mikael and a cop named Monica Figuerola.
It is no easy job to find a plotline so intricate and tricky, where you would usually have to make notes on every little detail (which I didn't - but I can only advise you not to take my laziness as an example, because following each of the interspersed details will help you with understanding the story), and Stieg Larsson's books are most certainly not created for entertainment only - they keep their readers thinking, guessing and reading on.Stieg Larsson is by far not the best writer I've encountered up to now.
The other books in the "Millennium" series by Stieg Larsson:
Για όσους δεν γνωρίζουν τα παρελκόμενα της σειράς (που είναι περισσότερα από την ίδια τη σειρά): Ο Λάρσον είχε σκοπό να γράψει πολλά βιβλία από τη σειρά Millennium και λίγες μέρες πριν το θάνατό του είχε παραδώσει τα 3 πρώτα βιβλία προς έγκριση στον εκδοτικό οίκο.
Σε κάθε περίπτωση, οι συγγενείς με τους οποίους είχε να μιλήσει 20 χρόνια έγιναν εκατομμυριούχοι, ενώ η επί 30κονταετίας σύντροφος και σύμβουλός του κατά την έρευνα των βιβλίων (είχε δράση σε γυναικείες οργανώσεις, θέματα που διαχέονται διαρκώς στη σειρά) πήρε τα απαυτά της (όχι, δεν τις έδωσαν δεκάρα ούτε από τις πωλήσεις ούτε από τα δικαιώματα για ταινίες.
Sin duda alguna, una de las mejores trilogías que he leído.No sé si me ha gustado más esta parte o la anterior.La parte del juicio me ha dejado con la boca abierta, y el final ha sido perfecto.Me da mucha pena que el autor falleciese tan pronto, me habría gustado poder disfrutar de más libros suyos.
The attempt was clearly to say something about how, traditionally, women have actually fought in wars, not stayed on the sidelines fainting and tending to wounds like, I don't know, some people expect, but really the story was more about how cool women want to be BFFs with Blomkvist and have sex with him.
And it was like, mystery guys and punching and guns and stuff.”“Do you think the prime minister knows how cool book 2 was?”“We should definitely tell him.
E, pa svaka čast Larssonu! Toliko likova, toliko događaja, toliko zavrzlama koje su na kraju savršeno povezane i razvezane! Pisca nema već više od 12 godina, ali pali i žari i dalje! Sigurna sam da je ponosan! ;)Obavezno čitati redom, ali rekla bih i u kratkom razmaku kako bi se kvalitetno pratila radnja. Bila sam "u strahu" da mi se trilogija neće svidjeti jer je svima savršena, ali ispalo je da sam i ja u tom klubu! ;)Na kraju bih dodala da se isplati pogledati i švedska ekranizacija trilogije. Glumca više nema, no iza sebe je ostavio kvalitetan opus.
My Rating: 4.2/5RTC
The third and final volume in the series, more like part two of The Girl Who Played with Fire, but I am not complaining these books are brilliant, fabulous story line with wonderful and colourful characters. Lisbeth Salander is a marvellous invention by the author, a very unlikely heroine, but credible all the same. I found this series totally gripping and almost unpredictable. I recommend these books to anyone who likes a good read, but especially those that like crime thrillers.

The characters were just as amazing as they were in the first 2 books but I feel like Larsson sacrificed them for plot.
Honestly, I had no plans to read book 4, but I honestly hope this random author ends up salvaging some of the respect I had for Blomkvist and repairing the relationship between the two leads.Also not to mention that none of the characters got any sort of closure, but I will assume this has to do with the passing of the author before the series was complete.
Readers whose loyalty to the series centers around Salander will not find much to love here.Aside from Salander’s waiting game, we observe a long series of meetings among the bad guys (Zalachenko’s protectors and those who want Salander falsely declared mentally incompetent – again), the good guys (Blomkvist, of course, and a bevy of powerful babes), and the not-evil-per-se-but-out-for-themselves guys, a.k.a. the Swedish government.
All of this eventually (read: after about 600 pages or so) leads up to Salander’s trial, where she stands to be punished for defending herself against the bad guys in the last book, and possibly declared mentally incompetent.
All three of these books fit together to form one brilliant story and I can really appreciate his commitment to it, to all of the different characters, to the inevitable mountain of research and so on.
I felt like he packed so many small details in here and there because he wanted us as the readers to get the full story, the big picture.
He wanted us to know these characters the way he did.A million thanks to my Aunt Judy for getting me the first book for Christmas several years ago.-----Two months later and FINALLY watching the movie and omggggg <333
