https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34517.Reaper_Man
How can you not like Death? HOW, INDEED?I'm sorry, did someone say something?NEVER MIND. I'LL ONLY BE HERE A MOMENT.Oh, okay then. Anyway, as I was...erk...
Probably my favorite of all of the Discworld novels (and that's a hard choice, given my total love of the series).
Of all of Pratchett's many quirky characters, I think I love Death the best, though I couldn't begin to tell you why.
Anyone who compares Pratchett to Tolkien or Douglas Adams hasn't actually read any of the three.
It might be better to compare him to Jonathan Swift or Mark Twain; in spite of the dwarves, wizards, witches, werewolves, and other fantastic characters, Pratchett's novels are more a commentary on human nature & society than high fantasy.
Nevertheless, I agreed to read one book per month and this month, of all possible months, it was this novel's turn.Sometimes life just loves punching you in the gut.And yes, I half laughed hysterically, half cried pitifully while reading.I've actually read Reaper Man before but it's been a long while and I must revise my original opinion: THIS is the best Death novel by Pratchett.
Seriously, if you want to know how to treat the woman you love, take notes from the Reaper himself.This book is full of really profound messages about life and death and making your life count, if only by giving others some of your time (in any way this can be meant), religion, time in general, friendship, love ...
Re-read with buddies!I suppose it helps that I'm already a lifelong fan of Pratchett, but even objectively, this is a delightful novel about Death's retirement. Sure, he was tricked, but he really needed some time off. Or some time, period. The magicians were delightful, as usual, and the undead, even more so. This is the zombie apocalypse, Discworld-style, when no one's allowed to die. It was rather pastoral. :)I wouldn't say this is my favorite of the Discworld series, but it *does* mark the inclusion of one of my absolute favorite Discworld characters of all time.
In 1991, Sir Terry Pratchett first published his 11th Discworld novel Reaper Man. The comparison is mine, apparently Pratchett titled the book as a reference to Alex Cox’s 1984 fantasy film starring Emilio Estevez.So, what happens when our Discworld friend Death is given a timer and … time to spend it?
We get this fun book that helps us to revisit Discworld and some of our favorite Pratchett characters like Death, the Unseen Academy staff, Cut Me Own Throat Dibbler, some of the City Watch and an Ankh-Morpork host of otherworldly Ghostbuster type shenanigans.When Death takes a break out on the farm, all the spirits and ghosts and poltergeists and spooks back up with no where to go.
“No one is finally dead until the ripples they cause in the world die away—until the clock wound up winds down, until the wine she made has finished its ferment, until the crop they planted is harvested. The span of someone’s life is only the core of their actual existence.”— Terry Pratchett (1948-2015).Thank you, Mr. Pratchett. God speed.
“No one is actually dead until the ripples they cause in the world die away...” "I want more Death" is what I spent most of this book thinking. 60% of this was about Windle Poons and other wizards and I just wasn't into the silly randomness of the problems they were dealing with. The "life force" issues felt too much like the alchemy issues in Moving Pictures, and I just couldn't get into that one.I wanted to experience more of Death's life on the farm, and his whole side of things. I liked The
"I want more Death" is what I spent most of this book thinking.
The "life force" issues felt too much like the alchemy issues in Moving Pictures, and I just couldn't get into that one.I wanted to experience more of Death's life on the farm, and his whole side of things.
I liked The Death of Rats and The Death of Fleas as an added touch.
It has my favourite cover (not the exact one on this edition, but close enough) so I was a little bit overexcited maybe?
I don't know, I'm just a bit disappointed.
If I could steal credit for a book and claim it as my own, Reaper Man would most likely be it.
It's a very subtle shift from the little parodies of science fiction and fantasy conventions of things like The Light Fantastic to the rich satire of a book like Jingo.
Behind the story of Death being fired for having developed a personality, there's a clever little parable about what it means to be human, to be alive, and why the man locked in the tower watched the flight of birds.
Because while wizards don't believe in gods they know for a fact that gods believe in gods.Reaper Man is the second book in the Discworld series that features Death as a main character.
(Overall it is book 11) I really wanted to love this.
I loved when Death was featured but I wasn't a fan of the storyline surrounding the secondary character, Wizard Windle Poons.
two and a half starsI did come across a quote perfectly suited to me and my penchant for abusing exclamation marks though!

...it's just that life is a habit that's hard to break...With Death off gallivanting around, Discworld residents discover that eternal life ain't all it's cracked up to be.
When all those "Buggers" you spout sprout wings and start stinging, you'll be sorry!The subject matter of this tale also lends itself to a bit more introspection and philosophical musings, and dare I say, a few nuggets of wisdom...There was never anything to be gained from observing what humans said to one another - language was just there to hide their thoughts.Hmmm...
Death plays as the Boot in Monopoly, and once again shows his humanity. Pratchett showed the world that death isn't an ending it's a release especially for the very old, 130 year old wizard Wendel Poons. He shares other wisdom as well, "Inside every living person is a dead person waiting to get out", "Five exclamation marks, the sure sign of an insane mind!!!!!"When death comes and asks if you have any last words, "Yes, I don't want to go."Death to all tyrants.Great fun read, now onto Soul Music!!!!!
Zato mi je i Mort u retrospektivi malčice opao: iako sam se smejao i uživao, ne mogu reći da se baš nečeg posebnog sećam, jer je ipak taj roman pre svega podloga za meditaciju o društvu i životu, ali i za razvitak likova.
Primećujem da iako generalno (...
i iako su generalizacije loše) najviše volim romane bez p od priče, u fantastici volim romane sa pričom.
Ili bar nekakvom narativom.
Ili bar retko.
Pračet je bio blizu sa Mortom, ali ne i potpuno uspeo.Ovde, medjutim, sve je divno i bajno i krasno.
Pračet.
A Pračet je u rečniku negde pod „dobrota“.
This time he has been shorn of his anthropomorphic designation and sentenced to a short life on the Disc as punishment for becoming too individual.
Of course it wouldn't be an early Discworld novel without a simultaneous plot going on that ties in to the main story in some way, this time the recently invented wizard faculty get to raucously investigate what is happening to the world now that nothing is dying, including the suddenly full of beans Windle Poons, wizard - DECEASED.
1 Jan 2002 6 Jul 201413 May 2016Is there anyone who doesn't love Death?
He's one of the greatest characters ever.
That is exactly what I want to read today!" So you do.
And Death takes a (working) holiday, and life is bursting out all over, and the plot is silly, and the characters are so engaging, and you've read it before, so you know what to expect.
And it doesn't matter that I didn't read it in anything like proper order relative the last Pratchett or the next one.
It was delicious.6 Jul 2014 Personal copy
3.5. Tiene un arranque muy muy muy muy divertido (sublime incluso), y una sinposis de lo más Pratchett: la Muerte tiene más personalidad de la que la Muerte debería tener jamás, así que la apartan de su trabajo. El problema es que, sin un sustituto a la altura, la vida chorrea por todas partes: los objetos inanimados se vuelven locos, los muertos están vivos, el abono del jardín te ataca de manera teorrífica... ¿Quién no querría saber cómo termina todo esto?
Invasion of the Shopping Centres6 July 2013 I guess the person that said that the problem with Terry Pratchett is that you have to read him more than once probably applied it to this book in the same way that it had been applied to the other books that I have read and discovered that the second time around I have enjoyed them much more than the first time. Okay, I am probably not going to pick up Moving Pictures again, though this one is definitely one that I should come back to again some time
Invasion of the Shopping Centres6 July 2013	I guess the person that said that the problem with Terry Pratchett is that you have to read him more than once probably applied it to this book in the same way that it had been applied to the other books that I have read and discovered that the second time around I have enjoyed them much more than the first time.
Most of his other books is generally focused on the main plot, where as this one deals with the retirement of Death and the resulting chaos that comes about, and concurrently deals with this strange phenomena that has appeared in Ankh-Morpork: Shopping Centres.
The story of 130-year old Windle Poons only beginning to live his life after his death is one.
It's the latter that makes this book a gem in the overall arc of the Discworld books, but it just wouldn't work nearly as well without the light note of the activity in Ankh-Morpork and the hilarious cast of characters that Windle has to deal with.Death gets to point out some things that are really profound throughout the series as a way of dispensing Terry's wisdom through an unassailable point of view, but he rarely gets to make profound statements about the role of Death himself.
Tırpanlı Adam’da, bu kez yaşamgücü fazlalığı ve Ölüm’ün malulen emekliliği unsurlarını kullanarak tüketim çılgınlığını eleştiriyor ve büyük alışveriş merkezlerinin, şehirlere neler yaptığını irdeliyor.Mesela şehirlerin dışında, çok dokunaçlı ucubik yaratıklar gibi yayılan dev AVM’ler için şunları söylüyor, ilk kez 1991 yılında yayımlanan Tırpanı Adam’da:“Şehrin içinde, sıcak ve korunaklı bir yerde büyüyor olmalıydı.
Gerçek değil, sahte bir şehir; sahte bir şey… şehrin canını, yani insanlarını çekip alan bir şey…”Her hafta sonu, büyülenmiş gibi ve zombivari hareketlerle AVM’lere koşan koca bir insanlık için daha iyi bir tanım olabilir mi?
Satın alınan bir sürü irili ufaklı çerçöpü, uyduruk hediyelik eşyaları ve daha başka kim bilir nelerle yoğrulan tüketim çılgınlığını da unutmuyor Pratchett.
4.5 'Inside Every Living Person is a Dead Person Waiting to Get Out...'  Death is one of my favourite Discworld characters and Reaper Man is the second book in the Death novels. I prefer reading in general Discworld reading order though. Still, whether you read these books like I do, or you choose to read them as separate novels about Rincewind, or Death, or witches and so on, you will have lots of fun. Death gets fired. Or something like that anyway. Instead of mopping around feeling sorry for
Death is one of my favourite Discworld characters and Reaper Man is the second book in the Death novels.
Still, whether you read these books like I do, or you choose to read them as separate novels about Rincewind, or Death, or witches and so on, you will have lots of fun.
He finds his way to a group of life-challenged individuals and there the adventure of his unlife starts.The troubles in Ankh-Morpork and Death's new experiences are the two threads we follow in Reaper Man, both funny and entertaining.
Upon hearing the tragic news today, I have realized I have not added this book or written a review of it, and I feel truly bad about that.If someone were to ask me which of Terry Pratchett's book is my favorite, I wouldn't hesitate.
All of his books are works of art, but among them, this one stands out like a true masterpiece to me.
It is the only one of his books that I have re-read so many times and I know I will re-read it many more times in the future.
He doesn’t understand how mortals can stand being alive, knowing they’re going to die.Now that there’s no Death, Windle Poons can’t die, he’s 130 years old and ready for his next adventure in the afterlife and is very much hoping for a reincarnation.
Windle gets rather disheartened that when it was his time to go, all that happened was his spirit left his body, and then re-entered his own body since there was no one to usher him to the other side.Most Wizards wait in nervous anticipation for their face to face meeting with the anthropomorphized personification of Death, but it’s even more unsettling when he doesn’t show up.
He's done it again.My favourite of all of the Discworld novels.Death is a fascinating character, and seeing his strain of humanity just makes him all the more so.Reaper Man is HILARIOUS. Death is so awkward, so unsure of himself in the realm of the living. And when your time is running out, you want to experience everything life has to offer. And when you've never lived, maybe the basics ARE the most important parts of life.
The first of the Discworld books I've listened to the audiobook of, narrated by Nigel Planer, and it was excellent! I'll now hear Death's voice in my head as voiced by Planer when Death appears in the upcoming books I happen to read in print.
Dear Pretties,So I'm starting new healthy exercises; after my surgeries 3 years ago. Pratchett has inspired me to get back into shape with his wit and humor. Using the Google Fit and 30 day Challenge apps. The work out regime is Full Body, Abs, Butt, Arms workout, and 2 mile walks.Day 1: My body is screaming... Day 2: Exercise says to me... Day 3: I say to exercise... Day 4: It's a rest day. Color me surprised, and my husband is now going to join in. Day 5: and I've came across the librarian of
Dear Pretties,So I'm starting new healthy exercises; after my surgeries 3 years ago.
The work out regime is Full Body, Abs, Butt, Arms workout, and 2 mile walks.Day 1: My body is screaming...
Day 6: It seems that I'm going solo on this training.
Though it doesn't seem that the Abs workout hurts as much as when I started...
Day 10: Another 4 mile walk today.
Day 11: After a combined 12 miles in the previous 3 days this is how my workouts progressed...
I'll also keep going on this 30 day challenge.More later pretties!
There is actually one fun moment of meta-awareness within the story when Windle Poons realises that the whole chaos surrounding him, the things happening to him are so full of metaphorical interpretations it is almost too much.Anyways, one of the main ideas here is that when Death retires, the living cease to die – at least for a time.
Actually one of the recurrent ideas of the Death books (at least these two I have read) is that beliefis a force to be reckoned with and it infuses the entire concept of this worldbuilding.One of the main characters here alongside Death is the elderly magician Widdle Poons who have lived an unremarkable life until he became undead.
Este segundo libro de la saga de la Muerte me encanta, lo recomiendo a todo el mundo y seguramente lo vuelva a leer dentro de no mucho tiempo, pero me deja con un sabor agridulce.
Hay que decir que los personajes del Mundodisco son estupendos, todos y cada uno de ellos.
Se puede ver que Windle Poons es un personaje necesario para completar la historia sobre la vida y la muerte, sobre el "descurbirse" a sí mismo.
Por ello, podría decir que la historia de la Muerte y Bill Puerta merece las 5 estrellas, pero la de los magos serían 3 estrellas.
He's a good character but most of his parts had the same problem: he didn't really know what was going on.
He has some good scenes and meets interesting characters, though.The third story is about Death, and how he is coping with becoming mortal.
I think Mort did a much better job with the separate story lines: merging them together as the plot progresses.I felt there was very little direction overall to the book.
The start was good, with some good laughs, and the five wizard characters are still likeable, despite what I said earlier, so they make their scenes enjoyable even with a lack of direction.
how sweet)At the urging of quite a few friends both on and off of GR's, I finally got around to reading my very first Terry Pratchett Discworld novel.
I found myself laughing about some of the scenes in this novel well after I had read them, sometimes in public, and sometimes drawing a few curious stares from passers by*.This novel, which is centered around the subject and the person of Death, was a quick read and a lot of fun.
Given that the novel includes a sentient shopping mall, an undead rights support group and a baboon librarian, I think that says a lot about Pratchett's ability.
The world building aspect of this novel was, at times, hard to follow.
Reaper Man is the second book in the Death subseries of the Discworld universe.
Poons fails to die properly without Death on the job and thus becomes undead.Windle Poons himself was a fun character, but his part of the story wasn’t all that interesting to me.
I was more interested in what would happen with the Death character, and I’d been looking forward to reading more about him.
However, Death really didn’t show up that much during the first half of the book and his story was on the skimpy side.
I also thought the story seemed pretty disjointed, even for a Discworld book.
