https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/519933.The_Lives_of_Christopher_Chant
this was a wonderful kid's novel, swiftly-paced and enjoyable from beginning to end.i loved the connectivity between this book and its predecessor, seeing the basic similarities and differences between Cat and Christopher, their similar reactions to their current Chrestomanci and Chrestomanci Castle, their different ways of not being magical, their similar abandonments and the different ways their families let them down, their different sorts of victimhood and their similar ways of finally taking command.
their mutual destiny.Cat and Christopher are both very special people who are trapped by that destiny.
Maravillosa precuela de 'Charmed life' (traducido al castellano como 'Una vida mágica') en la que conocemos los orígenes del fantástico hechicero Chrestomanci, cuando era tan solo un niño que viajaba de un mundo a otro conociendo diosas, robando gatos y soñando con ser jugador de críquet profesional.Tan solo desmerece un poco el desenlace, pero aún así he disfrutado muchísimo de toda la novela que es divertida, original y llena de personajes geniales. No es necesario haber leído 'Charmed life' para catarla, por cierto
I don't think I'll ever get over how fantastic this series is.
Wonderful like I remembered. I love putting all the pieces together. The ending with the people of Eleven wasn't the best, sadly. I think the 'noble savage people' idea is showing its age.
5 Stars!As seems to be typical for me, I'm ready to head on to the next book in this series so...time to review the last one I read!I stick by my initial statement: "There isn't much better than a classic Diana Wynne Jones to get you out of a slump!" I can't remember what got me into this slump to begin with, but The Lives of Christopher Chant pulled me out of it with a whirlwind one sitting read.
True to Diana Wynne Jones' style, the book starts out fairly mundane and with a typical account of a child's, or children's, lives.
The scene where he helps Throgmorten escape is one of my favourites in the entire series, because it's one of the first times we really see that kindness come out in an overt way.His gradual burgeoning friendship with Millie is wonderful.
Not necessarily sensible, she's still a kid after all, but practical and decisive and confident in a way small child me always wanted to be.I've also always loved Mordecai Roberts and Flavian Temple, the way their friendship and betrayal and renewed friendship plays out in the text, but also the very different ways Christopher treats them.
I wanted it to be all mine, so that nobody could corrupt it.Somehow, this translated to me reading it year by year, eagerly and thirstily, sucking in all the multi-layeredness and life lessons that I'd missed on previous rereads.
It's THAT kind of book -- it's full of things that you don't fully understand the first time, that you have to get older to appreciate, or that you have to think about in a certain way to comprehend.
I've read it at least ten times, and I don't even think I've found everything yet.I love the other Chrestomancis too, but they pale in comparison to this one.
Fun and easy to read.
Maybe I only read the first book, when I was younger.
In any case, it's best to read this after Charmed Life, otherwise it would give the game away with some of what happens in Charmed Life.Christopher Chant isn't the pleasantest kid to read about, if you're reading in an aware sort of way and you know some things about the world -- e.g. dragon blood -- but at the same time, you get sucked into what he's doing.
Millie/the Goddess is a fun character, too, and I kind of identify with her obsession with school novels...
Jika sebelumnya saya suka sekali hubungan di Charmed Life [ Cat dan Janet, Chrestomanci dan Millie istrinya (yang toh sangat "awwww" di bagian pertempuran pemungkas Charmed Life ❤️) ] dan di The Magicians of Caprona [ Paolo dan Renata juga Paolo dan Tonino ], maka disini saya terpikat dengan Christopher dan Sang Dewi.
Soalnya nak Gabriel itu lively sekali ❤️ //serius //sayasukasenyumusilnya //khasanak-anak //anakyangusil //heh.Keluhan terbesar saya hanyalah bagian yang menghangatkan, misalnya mencairnya hubungan antara Christopher dan Gabriel tidak diperbanyak.
Soalnya-- setelah setengah buku masuk ke bagian Kasti Chrestomanci, Dua per tiga bagian itu menceritakan betapa menjengkelkan hubungan Christopher dan Gabriel pada masa itu (sebenarnya tidak juga, tapi menyerempet lah).
(At least, I love the stories that surround the character and the castle, so notable exceptions include Volume II.) As a story, I don't think this is paced as well - or as fun - as Charmed Life, but it does dovetail with Charmed Life in fascinating, tongue-in-cheek ways, and those overlaps do a lot to elevate the story, placing it in context in the wider Chrestomanci universe.More specifically, this is the story of the way the vague, suave, dressing-begowned father of Roger and Julia in Charmed Life came to be that person.
The newest publishing of the books list #2 as The Magician’s of Caprona, but a list I found that showed Diana Wynn Jones’ recommended reading order pointed to The Lives of Christopher Chant as #2, which was what I went with.
I’m going with the order recommended by the author because that seems like the most relevant opinion on the matter, so there you have it.In The Lives of Christopher Chant, we look back at the Chrestomanci that was in A Charmed Life and see him as a young boy who learns that he is meant to be the next Chrestomanci.
What a well-drawn character and set of relationships (including his with Miss Rosalie).I also loved the Goddess, although I was pretty annoyed that she and the rest of the people in her world seem to be white.
This annoyance doubled when it became clear that Tacroy -- and the entire rest of his (evil, extra alien) world -- are not white.
SMHStill, overall really loved this book and am excited to read more about Christopher and Millie.
I read this series as a 5th grader.
In fact, my copy got confiscated by the terrifying 4'9" Mrs. Wasserman because I was reading it under the desk and trying to look innocent.
I was delighted to reread this and realize that these books really ARE captivating, and maybe I did have some literary taste as a kid.I loved the way the adolescent hero has a terrible shock discovering that he is not adorable, and that he may in fact be an arrogant jerk.
And Jones is a master of the dangerous mistrusting gulf between children and the adults around them.
How can adults and children understand or trust each other?
Christopher grows up in magic Victorian London, escapes from marital conflict in dream spirit travel to Anywheres, strange lands, even mermaids.
Actually this (Brothers) Grimm tale has gruesome massacres of endangered magical species - cats, mermaids, dragons.
His world Twelve A faces the evil Wraith smuggler, the soul-eating Dright of Eleven, and vengeful immortal Goddess Asheth of Series Ten. Christopher dies, once stabbed through the chest, once his head crushed "like a run-over pumpkin" p112, three times burned, too quickly, too easily.
Christopher sees the "hidden prettiness" of his governess comes out beside Ralph, only an adult would suspect attraction, maybe an affair.
Travel through time and space is a theme that I can't possibly spend enough time wondering about, and Diana Wynne Jones does it in such an intriguing and cute way :) I mentioned in my review of Charmed Life that I'd read a couple of books in the series before, probably #3 and #4.
I find a lot of the time that I pick up an adult fantasy novel and the mythology is terribly complex and never fully explained, so that I feel like I'm reading a different language and wishing for a glossary (J R Ward actually added a glossary for each of the Black Dagger Brotherhood books which helped a LOT).I really wish more people were exposed to this series.
His uncle sends him a helper, Tacroy, whom he meets in the "place between" before the two enter the various Related Worlds and, using a magic carriage, load up on illicit objects to bring to "Series Twelve" where Christopher lives, and where most of the Chrestomanci series takes place.
It turns out that Christopher is actually a powerful enchanter, possibly the most gifted magician in his world, save for the current Chrestomanci, Garbriel de Witt, who is charged with moderating all magic and ensuring it is not misused for evil.
I read this as the second book in the series, following the author's suggested reading order.
I was a little skeptical at first about this order, because I felt like this book was fairly similar to the first.
I now think that this book is a good sequel to the first, because it contains characters introduced in the first book but also expands on their backstory and expands on the whole idea of multiple worlds.
They were briefly touched upon in Charmed Life, but there was little travel between the worlds.
(hide spoiler)]This world and the stories in this series are very intriguing.
For a while this was my all-time favorite book.
I chose it to write a book review on when I was twelve, which was a lot of fun (though I seem to recall having some trouble picking out a favorite passage).By the time I read this, I'd read two others of the same series, and so I was familiar with the character of Chrestomanci.
As such, it was nice to see him growing up, and to be able to pick out traits he retains in the earlier books.
Reading chronologically, this is the first book of the Chrestomanci series.
The reader gets to grow alongside Christopher Chant, and learn magic with him.
The many worlds presented are fun, vibrant, and make for an interesting contrast to the one Chant lives in.
Jones' writing keeps readers thoroughly invested and submerged in her world.
Even bits of exposition are presented as casual comments rather than any heavy-handed world building.
Her works are always a joy to read, but Chrestomanci was always one of my favorite series.
DWJ, in these early Chrestomanci books, captures something of the blind obedience of children, doing what they're told (at least for people they like or trust) and understanding very little of what's going on. [Though Christopher is almost wilfully blind toward the end there.]The story can be read from a post-colonial viewpoint, with the unhesitating exploitation of various cultures by the Wraith's gang, but it also raises the question of what gives a British government-appointed enchanter from one particular world the right to police anywhere but his own Britain?
I'm reading these in what Wikipedia informs me is Diana Wynne-Jones's suggested reading order, which is different from the publication order. I've been enjoying DWJ, which is why I've been reading them so quickly, but this is the first one which really makes me understand why she has such a devoted fanbase: she really has created a convincingly strange alternative world, with a real humour and charm to it.
If you liked Harry Potter, don't read this book. If you think Harry Potter is derivative puerile nonsense entirely bereft of wit, charm, or originality then I salute you. You should enjoy this delightful children's fantasy.
Funny, strange and convoluted: trademark Diana Wynne Jones fantastic-ness.
This is, finally, a worthy sequel to Charmed Life--which isn't to say that the intervening books were bad, but rather that that one and this one are very good.
It has a phenomenal beginning, a dreamscape of multiple worlds, creative and playful and entrancing, and it doesn't lose its magic even when events become more mundane--thanks in part to DWJ's humor, which is critical without becoming cruel and sits on just the right side of absurd; thanks in larger part to her aptitude for characterization.
DWJ also excels at endings; this is less climactic and numinous that some of her others, and the twists are obvious and young reader-accessible, but it's satisfying clever in a way that aligns well with Christopher's character arc: it feels good.
It begins with Christopher Chant (who we have met as an adult in Charmed Life, but this book stands alone), a lonely child with wealthy, self-obsessed parents, who can travel to other worlds.
This is a singular skill, but Christopher doesn't know it: he gets solace from travelling to other worlds, but doesn't know it's an exceptional skill until he meets his charismatic uncle, Ralph.
It's a fast paced novel, with Christopher shuttled from place to place, meeting many unsatisfactory adults.
The story is very satisfying, keeping to its internal logic, and full of daring, and, not always present in children's books, genuine human emotion.

Of course, Ralph is up to no good, but it is some time later, and after various adventures, that this becomes evident to Christopher, though it is apparent much earlier to the reader, certainly the adult reader.I enjoyed this book a lot more than Charmed Life, the first in the series, where we meet Chrestomanci as an important adult figure, though it does make his lack of sympathy for the boy Cat in that book even more of a surprise, given that Christopher had his own experience of being taken in by a family member and of not being able to confide in the adults around him.
Wow. I still love this series, and the orientalism was less offensive than I was expecting.Like "noble savages" and "heathens" wow this is 80s or what. (Not that it's been much better this decade.)You can read without fear, just guard yourself against some childhood stereotypes. The kind that come from a lack of clear answers from your parents and a general naivite about the world.Still had the usual brand of humor and quirkiness that I love. These books are nostalgia and comfort to me.
I have so much love for this series.
I love Christopher so much, and the Goddess.
The mystery is just enough—I know when I read it the first time, I didn’t predict the ending as quickly.
I love Morticai’s arc, though I am always slightly disappointed by the reveal of the secret of the Eleventh world.
However, I’m always smitten with stories of the world in the between the worlds—as you see with my love for The Magician’s Land and The Magicians trilogy—and this doesn’t disappoint for me there.
I can’t wait to read Witch Week.
this is her second book which i read. first was the charmed life. her writing style is similar in both books. the twist in both the stories are of similar kind too.a creative original story in deed. where and when did she found and wrote this stories. i wonder.an interesting book it is.
