https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356596.Rifleman_Dodd
Rifleman Dodd was a short little book that was solidly OK.
After reading the entire Sharpe series I wanted to get Forester's take on the Peninsular campaign.
(My understanding is that Cornwell wanted to write the land version of the Hornblower series.)The comparison did not fare well ...
The lengths Dodd goes to survive and his drive to harass and confound the enemy doubtless explain why it is on the USMC's reading list (http://guides.grc.usmcu.edu/cprl-p) but not the best book for the casual reader.
If you want to read a good historical fiction novel of the Peninsular campaign I highly recommend the Sharpe series by Cornwell.A disappointed two stars out of five.
The people at Kirkus Reviews combined their review of this story and another multiple read favorite by Forester, "The Gun"Copied from KIRKUS REVIEWThese two books -- neither of them known to any considerable American public-have a timeliness today that may give the impetus they need.
The Gun was published in July 1933, as an isolated bit of thinly fictionized history, an episode in the Spanish campaign of the Napoleonic Wars when guerilla bands, under the leadership of a patriotic priest, captured a gun and moved it over incredible barriers.
This book (paper back) was my best friend at night during USMC boot camp in 1998. The story provides a great example of how one person can make a difference. It underscores the importance of never quitting on oneself through the story of an infantryman separated from his unit in a combat zone. This would be a book that I would someday give to my children to read.
A classic novel of self-reliance and military duty, also known by its British title "Death to the French!" It is the tale of Rifleman Dodd, a soldier of the 95th Regiment, who is separated from his unit and trapped behind enemy lines in Portugal during the bloody Penisular Wars.
It's an excellent glimpse into the hardships of military life during the Napoleonic Wars, and to his credit, Forester also provides chapters describing the same experience from the perspective of the French units.
He's not entirely unsympathetic to the French, which is no easy task given that they entered Spain as supposed allies and proceeded to loot, pillage, murder, and rape their way through the Spanish and Portuguese countryside.
"Death to the French", aka "Rifleman Dodd", is the story of a seasoned English military man, cut off from his unit, during the Peninsular War, circa 1810.
Ultimately, Dodd wants to rejoin his unit in the vicinity of Lisbon.Dodd is the prototypical military man; mission, duty, and self-sacrifice are his values.
It's also a mostly one-dimensional view of the situation; Dodd does not dwell, or even think about, non-mission values, eg.
That's innovation.Although this story is told mainly for the point of view of Rifleman Dodd, there is also the point of view of a squad of French.
Good story and I can see why it's on U.S. Marine Corps reading list for the survival tactics and Dodd's  gung-ho attitude.Written a few years before Forester's Hornblower novels, this one tells of a farm boy turned rifleman in the English 95th Regiment.
A doughty sharpshooter, Dodd is trapped behind enemy lines and the story details his attempts to reach the English lines, with help from Portuguese irregulars and still fighting the French, killing them if necessary.
One big scene has him sabotaging by arson the French attempt to build a pontoon bridge across a river.
Interesting...the title of my copy is 'Death to the French'.
Maybe not politically correct in 1990.
My edition is based on the original published in 1933, my edition being 1956.
(Perhaps De Gaulle saw it in a bookshop and that was why he vetoed our entry in the Common Market!)This belongs to a certain genre for a particular reader.
Certainly those who love the work of Forester, who was one of the great authors of adventure literature in the 20th century.Substitute Hornblower for Dodd who is trapped behind enemy lines during the Napoleonic wars and you have the 'missing ' Hornblower book.
Forester presents Dodd as a man of tunnel vision in that he is not so concerned about the larger aspects of the war (which he could not have had information on--given the slowness and tenuousness of communications even between the generals even they did not always know what was going on in the territory let alone abroad), but necessarily focuses on 1.
In Dodd's situation we might recall Samuel Johnson's dictum "Depend upon it, sir, when a man knows he is to be hanged in a fortnight, it concentrates his mind wonderfully."The brutality of this war is brought out clearly by Forester.
I read this while I was at 29 Palms in 2010 (I wrote a review that may still be on Facebook somewhere, perhaps I'll copy it over). I think it was humorously bad, and it's perhaps more modern than one might expect based on its tone. I think the xenophobia was particularly off-putting (or hilarious, depending on mood), which is nowhere better seen than the last scene of the book. The fact that I still remember that scene 7 years later is telling. Also, I like to say: any book that uses the word 'highfalutin' unselfconsciously is itself highfalutin.
Great short novel by Forester following the adventures of a rifleman in Wellington's army in Portugal. Dodd is separated from the British force and has to work his way back to the army through French-held territory. Unaccustomed to personal heroics, he still manages to cause a good deal of damage to the French. Well-written, historically informed and good fun. Similar to Bernard Cornwell's Sharpe, but more literate and less melodramatic. Recommended.
Quite good on both the phlegmatic nature of the common English soldier and the savagery of the Iberian campaign. Cut off from his regiment, Dodd fights his way back to it over a winter; an epic by this ‘mute inglorous Milton.’ The landscape is out of Goya. Well written with little or no emotion, but occasionally sardonic about the costs of war.
Leadership, endurance, and wits.Engaging and thoughtful; the book is a good choice for a reader looking for adventure with a helping of historical realism. Effectively communicates the hunger and helplessness of those who are swept up in the tides of war, while simultaneously describing the frightening endurance of an everyman against all odds.
A green jacket is cut off from the British army as it retreats west through Spain and into Portugal.
Napoleon's French army is hot on the heels of the British army.
The Rifleman Green Jacket must survive with a group of guerillas while awaiting his British army to counter-attack.
It is a very good story, though I read it some time ago.
I remember thinking Sharpe stories might have been inspired by this when I read Sharpe's Gold story, many years later.
If you like a good bit of war fiction or like Napoleonic history, then I believe you will enjoy this.
Quick and exciting read. It brings you into the everyday life of soldiers fighting the Peninsular Campaign. Forester was a great storyteller.
The character Dodd was visualized as a warrior who took care of his equipment and sought only for the accomplishment of duty and mission.
A rifleman and his duty to serve.
Very boring.
The British Army under the Duke of Wellington is retreating behind the Lines of Torres Vedras during the French 1810 offensive.
With the help of some Portuguese guerrillas, Dodd wages a small campaign against the Napoleonic French forces as they try to manoeuvre through the mountain passes to lay siege to the Lines of Torres Vedras.This is a most enjoyable story as Dodd and crew fight the occupying French forces waiting for the British counter offensive to come.
I read it many years ago, but remember the schoolboy enjoyment I got from the novel.
Well worth reading, especially if you enjoy Napoleonic history.
"Rifleman Dodd" is the story of an English rifleman cut off from his regiment by the entirety of the French army.
The novella chronicles his harassing attacks and ultimately return to his brothers-in-arms.
The book accounts both the English and French side of the story, providing the reader with a unique insight into the battlefield dynamics.
Dodd's story is ultimately one that hails individual action, duty, and soldierly fidelity.
It is a book I would recommend to family and friends who cannot quite understand what would drive a man to sacrifice life and limb for country.
It doesn't necessarily explain that, because duty is the assumption upon which the entire work rests.
Like all of the other Forester novels I have read, this one is excellent!
I particularly like the way that Forester tells both sides of the story.
Rather than telling everything from the perspectice of the title character, Forester writes one chapter from Dodd's perspective, then another from the perspective of the French troops facing him - usually soldiers from the same squad throughout the book.
This does not diminish the hero of the book in any way, but serves to "humanize" Dodd's enemies.
Excellent reading which gives the reader a good sense of the fighting, terrain, and challenges faced by both sides during Wellington's "Penninsular War."
Rifleman Dodd becomes separated from his company while fighting the French in Spain.
(The book's original title was "Death to the French.") He falls in with a small band of guerrillas and fights his way back to the 95th Rifles.
Dodd could easily be one of Richard Sharpe's riflemen (see the great series by Bernard Cornwell), so the book appeals to my interest in the 95th.
Forester wrote another book ("Brown on Resolution") about the ability of a single man to continue fighting the enemy, similarly rooted in the WWII miieu in which Forester wrote.
Interesting take on the war novel, what happens when you become separated form your unit? How do you eat, where do you sleep, do you continue to fight, how do you get home? I can see why The Corps has this as 'sugessted' reading, great insight into guerilla tactics and how to be an infantryman, how to read the land and live off it. I recommend for anyone who is serious about joining the military, especailly the Army or USMC.
Not much in the way of plot or character here (although the framework is certainly there, and it's a shame it couldn't have been fleshed out more), but it's a great little glimpse into Wellington's time in Spain and Portugal. I appreciated the author's completely unsentimental approach and matter-of-fact treatment of war. A little dialogue wouldn't have gone amiss, but the book is so short that it's easy to forgive its faults.
Rambo of the 19th century. Slow to start, and repetitive towards the end, the book's most enjoyable aspect is getting to know Dodd and how hardcore he is. After the first few ridiculous stunts that he pulls, the book pushes the repeat button, and the last 70 pages are entertaining, but stale. Overall though, it's an inspiring and motivating read. If only we had more Dodds in the military...
This is another I picked up because of a military read list. Its a good tale of being separated from your unit and continuing on despite a bad situation. Makes a great companion to A Red Badge Of Courage.
Excellent piece of historical fiction. Provides insight into the Peninsular Campaign of the Napoleonic War (1808-1814) without injecting the character into any particular major event of that period. A good, quick read for anyone interested in Napoleonic or British military history.
I read this book when I was in boot camp because it was on the required reading list. So since I had nothing else to entertain me, I enjoyed this book quite a bit. I think I would have enjoyed it even if I was in boot camp though.
A great story of duty and persistence. Like most who have read this book, I read it back in boot camp at Parris Island.
Great story! As good a read as Forester's Hornblower novels--even better after reading Bernard Corwell's Sharpe series . . .
USMC Reading List
