https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6614.Lipstick_Jungle
Now I begin to wonder why dildo was created in the first place, eh?Wendy, whose family is rather dysfunctional with a spoiled staying home-dad/husband with equally two spoiled kids, feels her world is crumbling apart when her no-good of a husband Shane decides to divorce her just to punish her as she was always busy with her work and hardly home and never take care of the kids.I can't help to wonder that the same theme, only reversed, has existed for centuries but regarded as the most natural thing on earth as portrayed by the dumbest TV series I have ever seen called "Desperate Housewives".
Since the television series was about to come out, I thought I would read this book.
I just saved myself and my tivo a lot of hours if the series is anything like the book.*spoiler alert*Generally speaking, the three main characters have no depth, no true conflict, and no real resolving storyline.
Victory, a famous fashion designer, falls in love with a billionaire and decides she too would like to have that kind of money by working hard at fashion.
YAWN!I see this book as a ridiculous attempt to capture the experience of Sex In The City without any real drama.
As a "Sex and the City" viewer, I thought I was going to enjoy this book; however, that was not the case.
I think that the book could have been much better and that a few times hit on deeper thoughts that should have been further developed- but instead were just dropped...
Now you might think- "Sex and the City" (SATC) isn't exactly deep so what did I expect?
I suppose that after watching SATC for several years- you naturally develop relationships with the characters so even though they are superficial- you still care about them.
I was very happy to find that this novel is not your typical chick-lit book (and not at all like the Sex and the City novel which I found jarring and strange).
While the same familiar characters are there (harried Wendy, cool calm Nico, and cute Victory) , they seem a lot more career-focused and more ruthless than their TV show counterparts.
For example, in the novel Wendy is very overwhelmed with her responsibilities at work and struggles a lot more with achieving a perfect work-family balance than she does in the TV show.
Nico is a lot more cut-throat than in the TV show, necessarily so for her job I think.The book is not perfect.
So, at first I was going to write this whole review about the book and why I SHOULDN'T have liked it.
But the truth of the matter is that it was entertaining enough and it's okay for a book to be just that.
I'm allowing myself to find the good in things for what they are.
And sometimes you want a fluffy, no brainer.
It's called ENTERTAINMENT.
Here I go with the whole, why I shouldn't like it stuff.
I'm stopping.If you try not to read too much into anything and just look at it as mindless entertainment, it's fine.
This book is horrible. Terrible writing, cliched, vapid, and over the top. The three women blend into one- halfway through I still can't remember what one of them actually does. And why anyone would want to date or marry any if them is beyond me. Don't waste your time reading this. And please don't think that being a feminist means you can be an asshole, "just like the men". That's not what it means.
Even their assorted, constantly changing "other halves" generally merge into the same bland, faceless goo to be honest.On another level though, the fact that a book like this can be written, obviously read quite widely, and can be repeated again and again by simply changing the names of the characters, the title of the book, the TV series or the film really should be quite disturbing.
Lipstick Jungle was a bit hard to follow due to the fact that per chapter, Bushnell jumps from character to charter.
On the plus side of things, Bushnell is talented and knows how to write about the powerful, successful women in the New York district.
I'm a very detail oriented reader/writer, so when someone say "it was a busy day in New York..." and nothing more, I'd like to know HOW it was busy...
The book is worthy of reading, but you'll find yourself exhaugsted from the jump just trying to keep the characters from molding into one another.
Lipstick Jungle weaves the stories of Nico O'Neilly, Wendy Healy, and Victory Ford, numbers 8, 12, and 17 on The New York Post's list of "New York's 50 Most Powerful Women." Love reading books about women in power. Sure, some parts annoyed me but it's a nice refreshment to see women with money, power, and choices. Plus, it was also a nice refreshment to read about older women, women in their late 30s who can do it all and have it all. This was like Sex and the City, but smarter.
If Miranda, Carrie and the gang were high-powered businesswomen, this would be their story. It's the same old "Sex and the City" tale: Can women find happiness, friendship and success in the Big Apple? Bushnell is a smooth, entertaining writer. A perfect beach read.
Not great but much better than Sex and the City.
Kendaisa Busnela "Lūpukrāsas pavēlnieces." Grāmatas žanrs ir drāma.seit tiek stāstīts par trim ietekmīgām Ņujorkas sievietēm, kuras, atrazdamās panākumu virsotnē, izbauda veiksmi,taču tajā pasā laikā arī zaudējumus, attiecību vētras, nodevību un skandālus, kas sevī ietver katras sievietes aktuālās tēmas un spēj piesaistīt daudzas lasītājas.sī grāmata ir ļoti mūsdienīga, jo darbība risinās Ņujorkā ap 2008.
Viņas visas trīs vienmēr ir optimistes.Grāmata mani ļoti piesaistīja ar akutālajām tēmām, dzīves ikdienu, kā sasniegt labus rezultātus karjerā, kā arī interesantā un aizraujosā mīlas dzīve.
Tā kā man ļoti patīk pārējās sīs autores grāmatas, ne mirkli nesaubījos,ka seit man varētu kaut kas nepatikt.
Wonderful writing but awful book.
These characters are the exact reason why some men hate feminists; there is nothing wrong with being a strong woman but these women took it to another level of belittling and disrespecting the men in their lives.
These women seem to think that being a strong woman is about being as big of a jerk as you can to men, which couldn't be further from the truth.
They are the kind of people who create awful situations in their lives and then blame everyone else when these situations go awry.
I was pleasantly surprised by how much I liked this one. Well written, not full of male bashing, and fascinating characters. Would love a sequel to this to see where the three protagonists are in 5 years time.
Candace Bushnell's writing leaves so much to be desired. I've tried and tried, and it's just not worth the effort anymore. How they managed to turn one of her sad books into a multi-million dollar franchise is beyond me.
It's hard to understand why soulless, ignorant, vapid, shallow golddiggers are of interest.
Oli hyvä kirja eikä ollut ainakaan tylsä. Riitti menoa ja meininkiä jokaisella perheellä. Ja niin kuin tapana on niin BC-kirjat lähtee kiertään joten tää kirja jää odottamaan seuraavaa lukijaa :)
The ladies work in high power (or climbing high) jobs, one in magazine publishing, one in movie production, and up and coming fashion designer.
Wendy the producer married a man who couldn’t live up to her potential and jumped off the career path to take care of their kids, and in typical houseparent status feels left out and “not appreciated” Eventually leaving the spouse for the money without the faked love.
They all end happily every after no bad things occur Wendy makes a smash movie.
Silly summer fluff, with a generous helping of sex.
Everything felt scattered, from an all over the place time line to almost interchangeable, and therefore easily confusable, main characters.Lipstick Jungle follows three strong, professional women who found that they could be vulnerable, but only among their female friends.
While managing work, family, and romantic relationships, the women predictably learn that friendship is the most important thing.I found it difficult to always be able to decipher which woman we were focusing on at each point in time, especially when the main women interacted with minor characters usually related to another story line.
Lipstick Jungle is chick lit with a clear female empowerment message.
I came away on holiday with three books to read: The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas by John Boyne, On Chesil Beach by Ian McEwan and Burning Bright by Helen Dunmore. Of course, this did not stop my from buying a book at the airport (I am a serious bookshop junkie) and since I was going on holiday, I thought I would get something fairly trashy and easy. I opted for Candace Bushnells Lipstick Jungle seeing as I am enjoying the TV show. I have just finished it and I have to say I am pretty disappointed
I opted for Candace Bushnell´s Lipstick Jungle seeing as I am enjoying the TV show.
Whilst I am all for reading about powerful women, succeeding and battling it out in a supposed man´s world, I was bitterly disappointed with the characterisation of these women who came across as entitled, whinging and unlikeable.
Whilst I really enjoyed the TV shows Sex and the City and Lipstick Jungle, which were both inspired by her writing, I think the credit for their respective (and, admittedly, varying) success belongs to people other than Bushnell herself.
How I Came To Read This Book: I spotted it at Superstore and snagged it.The Plot: Instead of four single sirens in NYC, Bushnell writes about three power players who are learning the 'glass ceiling' of yesteryear still has an impact on their lives.
The Good & The Bad: This was definitely Bushnell's best book to date that I've read.
The characters were a helluva lot more likable and well-defined, the world of NYC wasn't *just* a cycle of disposable relationship stories (although love is a factor here), and the plot overall was just a lot more dynamic.
Sei que este livro passou para uma série de televisão e que não durou muitas temporadas, mas gostei mais de ler o livro do que a série.Fala sobre uma amizade entre três mulheres, e na sua luta diária para vence num mundo que é de homens, fantástica leitura posso vos garantir ;)http://aviciadadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
Ok, so sassy New York ladies all dressed up and going to work is my jam (thanks, Ryan!). Quick read, fun but a little repetitive and hit you over the head with its "themes". Still, it would be perfect to take on a beach trip with the ladies and read while sipping daquiris that some handsome younger man brought you.
Blah blah blah women blah blah blah power blah blah blah relationships suffer blah blah blah money blah blah BLAH! The "feminism" in this book gets really heavy-handed and then just ends up being tiresome.
That was really good. It's not the type of book I typically read, but it was a nice change of pace. Great characters and a very entertaining story. I may have to read more of her books. This was much better than the guilty pleasure I was expecting.
"Every woman knows you need to combine two men to make one decent one."
Suka deh novel ini..apalagi sekarang ada serial tivinya.. seru banget.. bongkar2 lagi ah nyari bukunya..
I love Candice Bushnell for giving us a book that eventually became the TV series Sex and the City, but most of her books are OK. Not a bad way to pass an afternoon though.
Because what self-respecting 27-year-old doesn't devour this book in like 72 hours. (Can't believe I'm admitting this on Goodreads...)
The book was okay. I think I would read something more recent by this author.
