https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51167.So_Much_to_Tell_You
*May contain spoilers*I listened to the audio version of this book (#1) during a few quiet hours in my garden, it was the perfect setting.After suffering a horrendous injury to her face whilst intervening in an argument between her parents, young Marina has stopped talking.
The book has us tuning in to Marina's daily entries into her diary, slowly we see her story unfolding, and as we discover her story, so does she.The writing sharpens her mind and makes her more observant, as she writes, she begins to see and understand people differently and soon discovers that everyone has baggage.
I love the way there's that quiet mystery of What Happened to Her which is slowly revealed through her journal entries - of course Marina knows what happened, she was there, so she refers to it only vaguely, giving a little bit more each time - because it's her journal, SHE hardly needs to sit down and explain it all!
I really need to go and grab me Take My Word For It asap to re-read that as well!I love also how Australian it is - like five pages in Marina mentioned doonas and I wanted to squeal from excitement!
She is socially awkward dealing with a tragic accident that has left her face scarred; and she hasn’t spoken a word since this incident.I picked up this book on a couple of peoples recommendation; John Marsden really is a stand out Australian author and this is probably the best I’ve read of his works.
I know she has issues of abandonment but with the scars I know something bad happened; I thought it was a case of her father setting her on fire (but that’s just my disturbing mind).This is a wonderful story of discovery and understanding.
Beautifully written - I'm always admirable of males who write in the shoes of a female and you would never know as the accuracy is remarkable. The concept, the execution, I just loved it all, and was in tears by the end.
I don't like fiction that's written in diary-form unless it's done well.
So Much to Tell You is definitely in that category of well-written.
It is the story of loneliness and the difficulties of being a teenager.
I love how the narrator, Marina, is so observant of the other girls in her class and she realizes that nobody is really what they appear to be.I think I would've appreciated this book a lot when I was 15 or 16 years old.
This is the type of stuff that teenagers should read, not the Twilight garbage that's out there today.
This book is written in a diary form and tells of Marina’s life in the boarding school and how she feels and who she meets and a little about her own family life.The main character of the story is Marina, whose face is partially disfigured but was beautiful before the accident.
Marina writes about what she sees and feels about the people around her.Cathy Preshill is a tall, thin, anorexic looking girl who is beautiful and becomes Marina’s best friend.
Kate is the bad one, along with Sophie.Lisa is tall, blond and very Nordic looking, very beautiful with a slight mark on her cheek from a skiing accident.
This is truly one of the worst books I have ever read.
I reached the end and was completely blown away that the book had ended.
It was abrupt, disappointing, and did not benefit the book in any way.I essentially walked away feeling like I was led on.
I trudged through this dry, emotionless, poorly written, plotless book with the promise of discovering the important withheld information being dangled just out of reach, and I didn't even get that.
Despite having read So Much to Tell You about a year ago, I am still furiously spiteful towards this little package of disappointment.
How on earth can he pack so much angst and beauty into such a small book?At first, our narrator appears to be a painfully shy new girl, apparently invisible to her classmates, just an observer with maybe a few more issues than your average fifteen-year-old.
What we do learn, as her story is carefully drawn out, is that she is far from invisible.Th journal structure allows the author to achieve the honesty and the immediacy that I associate with great YA.
I know I tried to at one point, and I'm pretty sure that when I did try, I was thrown off by the fact that it takes place in Australia, so I didn't know how to think about the Australian educational system (e.g., "what the hell is a third former?") as well as the school year ("what do you mean winter holidays are in May/June?").But I did enjoy it, for the most part.
That was pretty unclear -- it seemed as though it was either because of suicidality, or (view spoiler)[because her mom and step-father wanted to get rid of her during holidays, or a combination of both.
Her inner dialogue spills onto journal pages filled with hesitation, wit, raw emotion and brutal honesty.From family disfunction, physical and emotional trauma, hospitalisation and a new start at boarding school, this book encapsulates how we all feel through turbulent times, regardless of age, sex or economic status.
His ability to absorb the reader into an emotional connection with the title character is what initially caused my devotion, along with the sense that she was saying everything I couldn't, acting more honestly that I felt I did, and inspiring me not only to start a journal but to indulge in creative writing and the art of the written language.
don't like this book Depressing
I felt very bad for her but liked her adventures and stories a lot.
Brilliantly written!! highly recommend, but really annoying/unsatifying ending
This book gave me hope when I was a depressed, messed up kid. It...it draws you in.
This book is based on a true story and is from her actual diary writings as she progresses through time.Marina describes herself before the accident as a fun, immature, pretty teen who liked to play the flute.
As time goes on she finds comfort in some of the people around her such as her English teacher Mr. Lindell.
I feel the book does a good job in showing the progress of surviving through hard times through the support of others.I liked this book because it is based on a true story and that draws me in to the emotion of the characters.
This novel talks about Marina being at a boarding school and how she doesn’t know how to feel about her parents.Marina is 15 years old and is a very independent character.
You find out that this is the theme of the book because Marina’s past has made such a huge impact on her so that she can’t be like other people.
I really liked this book because I think that the way John Marsden explains Marina’s experiences makes it seem so real and believable that you end up sharing her pain even though she is just a character.
It’s about a girl called Marina who’s had a bad injury in her face caused by her father who accidentally spilled over her face which was supposed to go on her mother because she was having an affair with another man.
The books also very nice because I’ve never read anything like it.The book is teaching us a lot of things, how an injury can change your life, and how you can still love someone even if he ruined your entire life.
He wants to teach us these things.I like the book but I think it’s more of a book for girls.
This book is about a girl called Marina whom can't talk because of an accident with her parents.
Marina's father was going to throw a bottle of acid to his wife however, Marina jumped inbetween and the acid went onto her and her face was deformed and from then on she couldn't talk.Marina stayed at the hospital for awhile and then she went to a boarding school called Warrington.
Marina felt alone, and everytime at prep class (in other words, homework time) she would write a diary and telling us about her day and what her mom would say in the letters she sent.
It is such an amazing and insightful description of depression and despair "I feel like I'm dropping such a long way down again." "I seem to be dropping into a cold dark wet place, where no one's been before and noone can ever follow.
It's the most alone place you can ever be and, when you go there, you not only cease to exist in real life, you also cease to exist in their consciousness and in their memories."June 15 - I really wanted to know what she did in class when she was thinking about a significant time in her life.
Her father spilled acid on her face and now she won't talk so she starts keeping a diary.
Her mom sends her to a bording school because she can't stand the silence or Marina's face and Marina's father goes to jail.
Marina throws her chance of makeing friends and starts failing school, but afters a while she and Cathy (girl from her dorm) become frineds and Marina gains back some of her self esteem and writes her father a letter and while is at Cathy's house Marina goes vistit her father and she beginns to talk again.
I love So Much To Tell You because it was just so gripping that I had to finish it quickly, I'm glad Marina talked with her dad in the end but I don't like the ending, it leaves too much out. People should not even contemplate whether they should read it or not. They should just go ahead. John Marsden is a star.
I am surprised by how much I enjoyed this book. Wasn't too sure of it when I picked it at the library, but I found the character really intriguing. It was an easy read, and I am amazed at John Marsden getting into the head of a 14 yr old girl so well.
it was a good book.
I think we read this as a class in year 6... I don't remember enjoying it very much, maybe I was too young.
So far its good but its kinda sad. The girl cant talk but i think she might start to talk soon cause she's getting more used to her new school.
Ίσως να απευθύνεται κυρίως σε ένα νεανικό κοινό καθώς είναι ολιγοσέλιδο και ίσως η πλοκή σε κανα-δυο σημεία να είναι λιγάκι βεβιασμένη, ωστόσο το βρήκα καλογραμμένο και συγκινητικό.Η δεκατετράχρονη Μαρίνα έχει βγει από το νοσοκομείο και έχει μπει εσώκλειστη σε καινούριο σχολείο.
Πως έφτασε το κορίτσι σε αυτή την κατάσταση; Θα το βοηθήσει το καινούριο του περιβάλλον να συνέλθει;Μέσα από το ημερολόγιο της Μαρίνας, αποκαλύπτεται σιγά-σιγά η ιστορία της, ενώ παράλληλα παρακολουθούμε τις σκέψεις της, τα συναισθήματά της, την καθημερινότητά της στο σχολείο και σταδιακά τον μακρύ δρόμο προς την ανάρρωση.Ένα ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο που θα μπορούσε να αποτελέσει τον πυρήνα ενός μεγαλύτερου μυθιστορήματος.
The protagonist is a 14 year old who is sent to an all girls boarding school after experiencing unfortunate events.
Arriving at the school she finds it hard to adjust to her new life away from her mother/stepfather/father and grandmother.
I never noticed through all the story the main character never refers to her name.
Despite what the main character has been through.
It is not really spoken as to what happened just that the main character was in the way of an altercation between her father and mother, taking the brunt and ending up disfigured.
This book is about a girl how is struck in her head.
iI is an interesting story of what she thinks and how she communicated to others what she wants because she can't just simply ask for a pencil if she's forgotten because that's not how she works.
iI would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in hearing her personal thoughts and opinions.
I would actually recommend this book to all the girls in my year level.
It's not hard to see why John Marsden is such an amazing author when reading this book.
It's such a heavy and touching story to tackle, but written so subtly that I managed to read it in under 24 hours (world record for me!).
Although the book is short and writing is simple, the topic was endlessly engaging and flowed seamlessly that I really could have read it in one sitting, had sleep not gotten in my way.
I am a sucker for stories about people overcoming tragedy, and this is forever going to be one I carry with me.
This book was conflicting for me, for the first 30-40 pages I was not enjoying it.
I felt like I missed on a huge part to make the plot make sense.I knew it was book about a 14 year old girl in a boarding school who had gone through something traumatic and wasn't talking in a diary format, but what and why I did not understand.
Since my copy was only 109 pages I got a bit worried that I missed the point or that i was just not going to enjoy this.However I did, this was a strong 3,5 for me rated up because it was closer to 4 than 3 in my eyes.
