https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15348.Bored_of_the_Rings
Not one to turn to the classics, I wanted to select a novel that may accentuate a book I read and did not entirely enjoy, while also not choose a parody that had been flogged to death.
Still, I am sure that many will love this book, both those who are Tolkien fans and others who enjoy a good parody.
Deemed the ‘parody that laid the groundwork for this literary genre’, Beard and Kenney have done much with this and surely some collective will find it amusing.One might ask “why would you ever read this book?”.
Tolkien's was particularly detailed and it was clear that he put a lot of time, effort and emotion into the creation of it.The skewered version in this book of the LoTR map is hysterical.
Here is one of my favorite characters Tom Bombadil, in this book, Tim Benzedrino singing: "Toke-a-lid!
The gag lost its charm though after the first couple lines.If forced to pick a favorite scene, I'd have to go with when the party was attacked by a "Thesaurus" outside of the Mines of "Andrea Doria": "The creature was about fifty feet tall, with wide lapels, long dangling participles, and a pronounced gazetteer.
See HARM." pg 68.Anyway, rather than garnering a lot of laughs, this parody succeeded in making me want to re-read the original books.
This is an extremely out-to-left-field parody of a timeless fantasy classic. Full of horrible puns, cheap shots and droll tongue-in-cheekery, it will infuriate purists and delight others.
There are quite a few funny scenes particularly when the book makes fun of the Tolkien characters by incorporating sex innuendos.
When I picture in my mind the scene with Elijah Wood and Liv Tayler then the scene becomes alive and funny.As a parody, the story follows the same as the one of Tolkien's trilogy The Lord of the Rings minus some details and characters.
For the serious lovers of Tolkien, don’t read this book.Well at least for me, it didn't work.
As I said, I laughed a little there and a little hear but not enough for me to like this book.
Unsubtle, gross, stupid, mechanical, but quite often funny. My favorite line, which I often quote when hungry:"This better be food, 'cause I'm gonna eat it"And I liked Deus Ex Machina Airlines too. And the introduction. And the Council of Elrond, where Frito suggests just dropping the Ring down a storm drain, or pawning it and losing the ticket. OK, OK, I admit it - there is a lot of amusing material.
Just from the beginning, when Dildo Bugger throws a party for the gluttonous freeloaders of the Sty, and the foists his Magic Ring off on his hapless nephew Frito, you know things can only go wacky.The folks at Harvard Lampoon did a brilliant job here, warping the characters of the original story (with the utmost love and respect, of course, for the money they're making from sales of the book) into funhouse mirror-images.
And so does everybody else.What really differentiates this book from, say The Sillymarillion, is that the Harvard Lampoon writers have allowed these warped characters to evolve in their own right.
In the Preface alone, there is the best footnote ever written!So, follow Frito, Spam, Moxie, and Pepsi, four boggies from the Sty, as they journey to drop the One Ring into the Zazu Pits and rid Lower Middle Earth from the machinations of the evil Sorhed, the Great Carbuncle of Doom--with a little help from their friends Goodgulf Greyteeth, Stomper the Lone Ranger, and wretched little Goddam, while still finding time to stop for a visit with dear Uncle Dildo, fresh from playing another game of four-letter Scrabble.
Don't try to read this if don't love LOTRs this very funny this joke book that will have you gigging
No one would consider it "high brow literature", but it manages in about 200 paperback pages to lampoon, twist, puncture, and (if you will) defile a lengthy, intricate, and amazing tale (in six books, as defined by the author) in a way that seems so natural, so precise, so funny as to have no equal, let alone superior!I grant that humor is highly subjective, but there are certain universal concepts that funny men throughout the ages have used to get people to laugh.
A thorough sendup of Tolkien's classic trilogy. Character names alone will crack you up. (After awhile you'll struggle to recall the real ones.) But I really enjoyed the points when the writing logic became childishly simple: "It started to rain, and they all caught colds." Still makes me laugh.
Okay first, I love the Lord of the Rings. Now, I enjoyed this book, mostly for it's witty humor which unfortunately is often buried amid a lot of off color strained attempts at humor. Still I give it a 3 as it will give you some genuine laughs especially if you are familiar with the trilogy.
An interesting title choice as I did in fact find myself bored more than once while reading this. A shame, because a Lord of the Rings parody had the potential to be hilarious. Some of the jokes just felt too on the nose (or conversely, way out in left field) and by the end I was actually having trouble with all the names (can you imagine?). It was clever in spots and I did laugh out loud a fair bit, but overall I'd rather have reread the trilogy instead. Thankfully it's rather more condensed than the trilogy, though ;)
Read this in high school and thought it was too funny, not sure how much I would like it now.
For one who has never read J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings books, this comic takedown offers a fair amount of fun. But I've concluded that it's too ridiculous (deliberately ridiculous) to be properly appreciated without better knowledge of the target than I have. So I'm going to set it aside until I see enough appeal in the originals to plough through them--I'll resist speculating on why I've been immune to such fantasy so far--or (almost as unlikely) until I can watch the Peter Jackson LOTR movies with something more than technical appreciation.
Clever, but probably more fun if you actually really liked the original books. I must confess, that while I liked The Hobbit, I got a little fed up with the actual Ring books- Frodo was always saying "I know what I must do". I think the subtitle should have been "Seven guys take a long hike". The movies, though, did capture me. I think that tolkien was just a little too verbose for my tastes at times. Oh well.
My nominee for the single funniest parody of all time. This had to have been written in the late 60’s/early ‘70’s and it still induces pain in me when I read it; it’s that funny. My sides ache, my jaw aches; I simply have to put it down and then recuperate for days after. As one might guess, this takes a ribald rip at Tolkien’s Hobbit and Lord of the Rings trilogy. I actually know a guy who can quote this entire book, word for word, from memory, even after all these years.
Either you'll love it, or you'll hate it. I'm a LOTR-fan to my bones, and I adored this version. Funny, silly and stupid, just as a parody should be.
Bin einfach null motiviert, weiterzulesen, daher DNF. Ich fürchte, es ist einfach nicht mein Humor.
(Who remembers Mallomars anymore?)Those sufficiently daunted by the length of the Lord of the Rings trilogy will be delighted by the work's succinctness.
While serious Tolkien scholars may be disappointed that the entire plot line of  The Return of the King is crammed into the final twenty-five pages, I felt that the warped minds behind the action-packed non-epic properly weighted the story in favor of the Fellowship's exploits and away from the huge battles that drag on through interminable chapters of the second and third books in the trilogy.(I first read this book ca.
The funniest book I've ever read.
And this is not a figure of speech.But you need to have some appreciation for English/Monty Python?
This isn't your ordinary book of jokes.If some jokes seem random, they probably aren't and you need to read LOTR again.
even events and plots sometimes seem like simply blindly taken out of their respective bags or, in these times, result of computer generator engine of #random things#.So the seeming randomness of humor in this book is to me the best parody/mock up in itself.I noticed curious thing.
I tried few times and choked from laughter.
This book absolutely skewers Tolkein perfectly; it's even too long, while the original is too short.
So why do I love it, when I treat the original like my Bible?
Because unlike most parodies, it's artful and lighthanded?
Because the people are like little mirror-image character studies of Tolkein's?
Because it even has poetry that parodies Tolkein's?
Or just because of the long list of nasties who come out to face the good guys in the last battle, including vampires, giant insects, "She, It, Them, the Thing and the Blob," whereupon all the sheep bolt.
I dunno, it's a freaking scream, until the last chapter where it wears a little thin and you're glad to put it down.
Perhaps one of the best spoofs of the classic Tolkien trilogy that may ever be made.
The adventures of Frito, Goodgulf, Stomper, Eorache and all of the others will leave any reader laughing into utter madness...
I even still use the moniker "Farahslax" quite frequently when online, ever to be inspired by the classic song:"We are stealthy Green Toupees Skulking nights and snoozing days, A team of silent, nasty men, Who all think Sorhed's numbah ten.
Draw their fire Flank on right Narcs retire Fight-team-fight!
Using every grungy trick From booby trap to pungee stick We hardly need the strength of thirty When we can win playing dirty.
Really funny book, made me laugh a lot.Loved the scenes in the inn with the spying Nozdrul, the gathering of the fellowship and the way Arrowroot was presented: so brave, or, maybe, not so brave after all.Also, the thesaurus was hilarious :).
From what I can remember, this was a very good parody of The Lord of The Rings. and if memory serves me it is probably more a 3.5 star book.
Tolkien is thy master, Tolkien is right and the Silmarillion, LotR, short stories and Hobbit as well, make your bible.
(Cue: if yes go to bookstore and get this book, if no - do the same nonetheless) Maybe a bit of a fresh halfling blood and their wits would unravel the truth behind the idealised bible's story?Are you ready to find out what really happened and how the truth got distorted into Tolkien's universe of heroes and heroines?
If you're armed with your wits and know what's what in LotR and elsewhere than this atrocious shameful deformation of a typical and world-famous from-zero-to-hero story of brave ones on the quest is just for you.
This is simply the consistently funniest book I have ever read.
I read it again every year or 2 just to remind myself how good it its.
Oh, you do of course also have to have read "The Lord of the Rings".
Otherwise the parody story makes no sense at all.
But that's one of the things I LOVE about this book: open it at random and read any 10 pages.
It will be as enjoyable, and make as much sense, as reading it from the beginning.
Although the introduction, and parody map, is priceless.
There's songs, verse and tales within tales, just as in the original, but here with a huge dose of humour.Sure, from time to time it might get a bit over the top, just like all parodies, but the book's fairly short and you never get really bored of the story.I remember the first time I read it.
Sitting in the waiting room at the dentist, laughing and giggling...
No wonder the other people there gave me some funny looks.If you like parodies, love Tolkiens stories and don't mind the two mingling, then this is the book for you!

Either that, or the people in 1969 were a little bit psychic and predicted both Jersey Shore and Instagram.While I managed to reach the end of this book, it is largely because it is only 160 pages long.
But in all honesty, it isn't for me.
Maybe it's the humour (which isn't really my style, though I'll admit it was vaguely amusing in places) or maybe it's because I adore Lord of the Rings and hate to see it butchered so.It wasn't all bad though and I thought the re-imagining of some of the characters was very well done, particularly Tom Bombadil and Goldberry as trippy hippies.
Bleh. I'm all for parodies, in fact I love them. But they must be done well, and they really ought to either be a celebration or a roast. This one, however, just felt dumb. I'm not sure exactly what it was - maybe the humor is too outdated, maybe it reminded me too much of Pratchett and fell short, or maybe it really just isn't that great. Regardless, I was never able to get into it, and while there were a some laughs, they were few and far between.
