https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18705209-the-blood-of-olympus
I will update y'all as soon as possible once I get my hands on this book.
***UPDATE***5.14.14 COVER REVEALJust look at that.
It's beautiful.
Absolutely beautiful.It also reveals absolutely nothing.
Look what you've done, Rick...
Me.Finishing House of Hades and being hit with that realization that I have to wait ONE MORE YEAR for the next book IS NOT POSSIBLE.My brain at the moment:DAMN THOSE WELL CRAFTED, SUBTLE CLIFFHANGERS!Rick Riordan, you just be sitting there like:You're pleased with this pandemonium, aren't you?
WELLLLLLLThe rest of us are all:Rick, please just give me the book.
Pretty please?LOOK AT THIS FACE!
I feel empowered by that book, ESPECIALLY the fight scenes. So BA!
LOVED IT BUT IT NEEDED MORE PERCY JUST SAYING
Upon further consideration, I've decided to give this book a 3.5. Or maybe a 4. Some of the concepts were a bit unrealistic, and the scenes that I was excited about the most sort of... let me down.I still love the series, don't get me wrong. I'll update as often as possible. If you guys want some good news, scroll down until the end of this review. Guys...It's done. The series is over, and I'm shaking and I want to cry out of happiness because it ended on a terrific note and sadness because my f
I have a feeling that someone (most likely Leo, cuz of Calypso, with her being immortal and all) will take up that offer.So, what are your predictions?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Update!You guys are gonna kill me, but… I think Nico might die.WAIT!
You guys will not believe what I realized!!!I've realized that Rick Riordan knows how important his biggest moneymakers (Percy and Annabeth) are to us fans, and therefore, he will not kill them in The Blood of Olympus!!!So I know you guys are like, How do you know?!I would say that I "have my ways", but no mis amigos, I simply read The Staff of Serapis.Is this a spoiler?
Riordan wants us to know that Percy and Annabeth won't die in the Blood of Olympus.
(A-) 80% | Very GoodNotes: It’s about phantoms, figments and vaporous things: darkened by ghosts of dishonor, and lit in the emotive afterglow.
I am so pumped for the finale of this amazing series!
My brain  which is slightly irrational when it comes to anything Riordan related refuses to accept the possibility that anything bad could happen...Oka so I might be in denial here, but who isn't hoping for the best?Mingled amongst the excitement, there's apprehension.
No more laugh out loud Leo, adorable Percybeth moments, or the final quests where nothing goes according to plan?
I'm feeling a little weepy inside Okay, so maybe  a lot  would be more accurate The only plus side I can see to this whole 'last-book-int-the-series' dilemma is that if there is one person who can conclude a book series like no other (recall;  The Last Olympian ), it is Riordan!
Thank you for teaching me so much and being such a strong female character, you are my favourite female character by far because you are not weak, you think things through and you are just not annoying.[image error]Thank you.PercyYou know what I'm just not even going to mention it.I loved how Percy just knew that Leo had met Calypso and he wasn't trying to hide and ignore it, he actually wanted to talk to Leo about what had happened and tell him how bad he feels about leaving her behind and forgetting to get the Gods to follow up on their promise.
PRETTY DISAPPOINTED WITH HOW THIS WRAPPED. Here's my full discussion/booktalk: http://youtu.be/pGWrSXrE-qc

House of Hades was just indescribable! It was soo good! After I finished it, I was SOO DAMN excited for the next book! But THEN, I saw The Blood of Olympus's publication date... OCTOBER 7TH 2014 Seriously?!?!?!? SERIOUSLY?!?!?!?!Rick Riordan, you do want your fans to be alive to actually read the book, right? I guess not. Are you REALLY gonna make us wait till OCTOBER 7TH 2014?!?!! FREAKIN' 2014!?!?! I am soo gonna die waiting. I mean it, cause..After all the action and drama that happened in Ho
I mean it, cause..After all the action and drama that happened in House of Hades, you're really gonna make us wait one WHOLE year?!?!?!I think I'm gonna die..
Otherwise the story will just seem tooo perfect.I'm just praying that it isn't Percy or Annabeth, cause even though I like the other characters, I Absolutely Love Percabeth.
Cause after soo many books, if the fans don't get a happy ending, Rick is gonna be in trouble.
But then again, Annabeth wanted to stay in Camp Half-blood, didn't she?Let's just hope that the two camps won't be fighting with each other anymore after the war with the giants end.
*Buddyread with the Awesome Mac.* (You can click her name for her review.^^)  “To storm or fire the world must fall. An oath to keep with a final breath, And foes bear arms to the Doors of Death.”   Seven demigods shall answer the call of the prophecy. Of the seven, one shall sacrifice his/her life. Who might it be? After finishing Harry Potter, my heart now made of steel (courtesy of Ms. Rowling) is more than ready to know. Just one death? Psh! Piece of cake. I have never really tried writing r
Like Reyna, the world would have ended if it weren’t for you.favorite line: "Getting a second life is one thing.
Chuck is a very lucky baby Satyr to have you as his dad.favorite line:"Have some Gatorade!”Grover, Tyson, Will Solace, Clarisse, and the rest of the demigods both from Greek and Roman camps, you guys were awesome!gods and goddesses, you were great but…I’ll keep my mouth shut.
(I really don’t want to incur their wrath.) favorite lines: “Gah!” and ”Argh!” As for the death of this demigod, turns out…oops, got no more time, sorry.
The critical part of my brain was spitting fire at the Blood of Olympus's weaker points, but my nostalgic side, the one who has been infatuated with Percy ever since she discovered The Lightning Thief at a book fair, rebutted, "Who gives a fuck?"Is the plot incredibly convenient at times?Yes, but...Is the climax rather rushed?Yes, but...Is Riordan a sickeningly safe author?Yes, BUT...Who gives a flying fuck about Piper transforming into Celine Dion all of a sudden to soothe angry spirits, and four books' worth of build-up for Gaea's return was over in about two chapters when this book showed me such a fucking good time?
“I don’t define myself by the boys who may or may not like me”This book was so empowering.
That alone deserves 5 out of 5 stars.Plotwise, he again managed a worthy and satisfactory finale to a 5 part series.
This happens so often throughout this and every single book I've read by this author, I just wish Riordan would figure out a new concept at some point.I have another confession to make.
I really don't like Leo. I just can't connect with him, and he easily annoys me.It took me years to finish this series, but I'm happy I finally did it.
After 5 books of suspense and worry about the demigod heroes defeating Gaia, they finally meet her and she's....
NOT a disappointment: Reyna and Nico!
They were a breath of fresh air after a whole series of nothing but the prophecied seven.
The series has left me with less-than-lovely impressions of the seven: Piper and Jason: poster-boy and -girl for the perfect All-American wonder relationship.
Reyna and Nico, on the other hand, were the real heroes of the book.
Octavian tries to take over her position and Reyna's like, "Whatever bitch, you don't even register as competition" and LEAVES.
I can't...I can't..I CAN'T WAIT A WHOLE FREAKING YEAR FOR THE CONCLUSION  Let me just say, if Leo Valdez dies, someone is going to pay...That's not creepy right? (there are a ton of edits that I keep adding, so check below) So, I finally decided to add to this.My predictions (these are just random predictions)1. Frank dies.Frank is going to die. His life is tied to a frigging STICK. Not to mention the whole "To storm or fire thing" His sense of duty is so much stronger than Percy, who's fatal fl
Let me just say, if Leo Valdez dies, someone is going to pay...That's not creepy right?
If Frank dies, then my guess is that Hazel will die again and then they'll be together.
4. Percy ends up with Annabeth living in the Roman camp.
I feel like Riordan is setting it up for Percy to be the leader of both camps.
These kinds of books always have one character already labelled for death and I'm sad to say that Riordan is given Reyna that label.
You can tell Riordan really wanted to put a spotlight on him in this book and make him a real hero, but he just doesn’t really get there.
I would have liked to have said you were an interesting character before your revelation in the last book, but I’d be lying.
While it’s great that Hades turns out to be an honorary PFLAG member, I feel that Riordan missed a large opportunity with having an (implicit) LGBT character turn into a stereotype that only cares about appearances.
My friend and I were brainstorming ideas for the end of this seiries and we came up with a lot...here's two of them.Optimistic theory:Gaia is defeated, no-one dies, end pairings are Percy/Annabeth, Leo/Hazel, Reyna/Frank (c'mon, it could happen!), Jason/abandons Piper and gets rejected by Reyna and is forever alone, and Piper/goes into Hunters of Artemis.
Leo accidently burns up Hazel (and therefore The Stick and Frank), goes insane with grief and goes on a burning rampage and kills everyone else, except Percy and Annabeth.
"No one can hate you with more intensity than someone who used to love you."  Uncle Rick, again you did it!! You satisfied me and made me curious for the next series at the same time!! WOW!!!!  OVERVIEW Seven demi-gods are going to Athens to stop Gaia from waking up. => This book has a very simple plot with extremely dangerous quest. I loved this! => I liked that FINALY we got Nico's POV. I loved how determined he was to transport the Athena's statue to Camp Half-Blood. He risked his lif
Seven demi-gods are going to Athens to stop Gaia from waking up.
=> This book has a very simple plot with extremely dangerous quest.
=> I liked that FINALY we got Nico's POV.
=> I liked how Nico skillfully summoned skeletons and bones.
=> The very thing I loved about the series is that every prophesied demi-god in The Seven has a very important role to play.
But I would definitely love to see them as side characters.
So I will read Artemis before continuing this series.
Really!Even before starting Artemis, I will read a graphic book in one sitting.11 November, 2017
I really liked the book, my main problem with it is Rick's selection of POV's!!! Percy, Annabeth, Frank and Hazel felt like side characters in comparison of Jason, Piper and Leo. I think that this book needed the POV of the seven demigods, but oh well... PS: I loved Nico in this book, my baby was so awesome. ALSO... SOLANGELO <3.
*3.5* ERMEGERD. That ending messed me uppppppp. Kind of a cop out though.
I mean, I know they had tons of POV time in Mark of Athena, etc, buuuut...I would never say no to more of Annabeth's snark and brains.+ Jason: Okay, I KNOW I said at the beginning he was my least favourite, but omg, he's grown on my like a loyal barnacle.
HE is so funny and has such terrible self-worth and his love for Calypso was endlessly cute.
But then Rick Riordan doesn't seem like the murder-everyone's-favourites kind of guy, so I wasn't surprised that Leo reappeared to sweep Calypso off her feet.
He and Leo are my favourites (but, well, I love Percabeth.
To Storm Or Fire The World Must Fall Hmm...Storm could mean either Jason or Percy or both of them combined and Fire could only mean Leo. The world as i've already thought(i swear i knew this could happen before HoH) could be Gaia.
Something that make the seven demigods think 'We're SOO gonna be killed RIGHT NOW!'Like Percy and Jason be like And The Seven are LikeSee?
But i think someone important is definitely gonna die, most likely one of the seven in the prophecy.
And you know who i think is gonna die?
As much as I liked Nico and enjoyed seeing the extent of his power, I felt that I learned far more about Reyna and how she changed as a person.
It was one of the few scenes that reminded me of the previous books.Piper was another great character and it makes me sad that people think she needs to prove herself when she has a thousand times over.
It's a five book series, of course his ideas were going to change over time, but the prophecy was barely even a guideline by the end, and I have to say that really does bother me.
Tengo sentimientos encontrados con este final y con el libro en general. Ame como concluye pero quedé con ganas de mas, extrañe muchísimo a Percy y Annabeth como narradores, pero me encantó leer a Nico Di Angelo y por último, hubiera deseado leer mucho mucho más a Percy, sigo sin ser capaz de despedirme de este personaje. Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
See more reviews at YA Midnight ReadsEDIT 11/10/14 - My thoughts on the rushed ending, lack of all main characters and the ending in general: (view spoiler)[I've been thinking about The Blood of Olympus a lot after I finished it on Tuesday.
I live for these books: no joke, I thought and fangirled over The Blood of Olympus pretty much at least once a day over the past year.
Besides, The Heroes of Olympus isn't just a Percy Jackson book like the first series, the spin-off series is about all of the 7 demigods: Frank, Hazel, Leo, Piper, Jason as well as Percy and Annabeth.
UPDATE: 10/12/14 My full review: http://littleonionwrites.wordpress.co...I just finished The Blood of Olympus. Words cannot describe the emotions I went through. I cried because I was happy. I cried because I was sad. Gods, I'm so sad. I feel like everything worked out the way it was supposed to, even though I wish...But I won't post any spoilers here. I have to save those for my full review. But that was an intense adventure. I suppose now it's time to bid Percy Jackson and his friends farewel
My full review: http://littleonionwrites.wordpress.co...I just finished The Blood of Olympus.
I cried because I was sad.
Gods, I'm so sad.
I suppose now it's time to bid Percy Jackson and his friends farewell.
I've been on this adventure since I was ten, back when my friends convinced me to start the series.
I've grown to love the characters so much, even the ones I wasn't so fond of in the beginning.
The character development was phenomenal.
We can always relive these adventures, but it still feels like we're saying goodbye.
Ah. I can't believe it's over. Full Review on YouTube: https://youtu.be/Pmn_QjULNoo
H.Y.P.E.R.V.E.N.T.I.L.A.T.I.N.G. THIS IS IT. This is it, guys. The end of Percy Jackson. The end of my life. I'm not sure how I'll be able to read this without sobbing hysterically after every page. I just don't think I can do it. I CAN'T LET GO. WAHHHHHHHHHHH
Edit: 10/12/14: I finished. I'm near tears now because I'm going to miss all these characters so much. This book had its flaws, but to me it was PERFECT. Am I being rational? Nah. But I don't care. Review to come. Edit: 10/10/14: I HAVE IT OMFG YESEdit: 5/14/14COVER OH MY GOD MY EXCITEMENT FOR THIS BOOK HAS BEEN RENEWED OH MY GODD.Okay guys... VATICAN CAMEOS. If you don't know what that means, here's the definition, as put by John Watson:"Battle Stations. Someone's going to die."Here's who can'
Edit: 10/12/14: I finished.
I'm near tears now because I'm going to miss all these characters so much.
This book had its flaws, but to me it was PERFECT.
Edit: 10/10/14: I HAVE IT OMFG YESEdit: 5/14/14COVER OH MY GOD MY EXCITEMENT FOR THIS BOOK HAS BEEN RENEWED OH MY GODD.Okay guys...
Someone's going to die."Here's who can't die:-Percy-Annabeth-Hazel-Frank-Piper-Jason (EVEN JASON)-Leo-Nico-Bob (view spoiler)[Can end up not being dead please (hide spoiler)]-Coach Hedge-Mellie-Reyna-Tyson-Grover-Chiron-DamasenPlease tell me if I'm forgetting anyone.People who can die:-OctavianThe rest are either monsters or immortal.Again, let me know if I'm forgetting any evil people.Anyway...*Arms self with tissues and junk food*.
Buy this book HERE on Amazon   or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING 3.5 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). I cannot believe this is the end. HOW. This series was basically my childhood. I was super disappointed that this story would not be told by any of my favorite characters (Percy or Annabeth). I'm not sure why I didn't like this a lot. Maybe because I read this over the course of so many days? Maybe because of finals week and other
Buy this book HERE on Amazon
or buy this book HERE on BookDepository with FREE WORLDWIDE SHIIPPING
3.5 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
Maybe because I read this over the course of so many days?
Maybe because of finals week and other distractions?My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star.
(A 4 star rating is the highest rating I've ever given a book.)3 - I enjoyed the book, but there we're flaws that made me enjoy it less.2 - I finished the book, but there were too many flaws for me to enjoy it.1 - I could not finish the book, and I probably did not finish it....
