https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3049498-virgin-soil-upturned
Đọc rất chán, dù đã cố lết qua 2 tập. Y như 1 quyển sách tuyên truyền.
It's underlying current is the struggle of the noble communist organization against the backward, individualist tendencies of the stubborn remnants of Russia's rural population, those degenerate middling peasants warped and unenlightened enough to want to retain their own land and the crops that grow from it.
The interesting thing is, about 2-3 years after the time this book is meant to take place, the holodomor occurs and somewhere between 2.4 to 12 million of these lovable village folk die as a result of forced collectivization policies.
But well written and interesting as an artifact of propaganda and I did learn a lot about what some people said life was like back then.
This novel is a classic of the socialist realist genre. It is crudely didactic according to the rules of the genre and is rigorously moralistic. This might not be great literature. However, it stands as the best portrayal we have of the collectivization process. If nothing else for the light that it sheds on a major historical phenomenon it deserves to be read.
Я много ждал от этого книга, было хорошо но правда думаю что что то потерялся среди первые и втором частые, очень красиво почитать, даже кажется что ты прямо на поле, думаю что Тихий дон, лучше, но все равно это хорошо)
Mới đầu khi biết đây là truyện về cuộc sống của một ngôi làng ở Liên Xô cũ trong thời kì xây dựng chủ nghĩa xã hội sau chiến tranh hồng quân và bạch vệ quân, mình không mong chờ gì nhiều lắm, vốn nghĩ mình sẽ phải lết từng trang để đọc đủ số trang yêu cầu một ngày cơ.
Nếu không phải vì những cái tên dài ngoằng đậm chất Nga thì mình sẽ nghĩ đây là truyện về thôn xóm nào ở Việt Nam mất.Trước khi đọc cuốn này mình có coi review trên goodreads, có bạn cho 1 sao kèm lời bình luận, cứ như tuyên truyền về Đảng ấy, nói thật mình cũng hơi rén.
Написаний з позиції більшовицької ідеології роман про колективізацію у 20 роки минулого століття. Чіткий поділ героїв на своїх і чужих. Прикрашення колгоспного життя.

The only places to find this book are in my apartment (I bought the last available copy from powell's books in portland) and the nu library because mr sholokov is one of the least appreciated russian writers of the 20th century.
he is an author of heart-pinching zingers, but most people probably aren't willing to wade through the descriptions of russian meadows and sunsets.
Another thing that people might not be willing to wade through, unique to this book I think, is the extended farming collective/anti-private property plot-line.
One problem is that this decrepit old copy has totally fallen apart on me.
An excellent book...contrary to other Russian authors I have read, Sholokhov does not dwell on the thoughts of the characters. The story twists and turns and is quite unpredictable. The village life has been showcased excellently. He portrays the problems of collective farming through various incidents in the book and by the end one does feel that Sholokhov is against collective farming. Many people have not read this book and I was not going to be any different. I am happy that I took the plunge and read Virgin Soil Upturned.
There's a sharp disconnect between the first and second half of the book. The first deals with struggle, both social and psychological. The second is a series of unconnected comic farces. It becomes a parody of itself.
i enjoyed it very much
