https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13925.Child_of_the_Prophecy
Child of the Prophecy is, I think, a book about learning to love oneself, that it doesn't matter how many people might love you because it is all lost if you don't have that inner core of strength and self-love.CotP is most definitely a tale of a girl's struggle to find her identity, to figure out what she stands for, and her sacrifice to do what she knows is right despite the horrific cost to herself.
I don't really get his somewhat slavish devotion to Fainne considering all she put him through, but he is an admirable character and any woman would be lucky to have a man like him.
This is such a hard review to write because I loved this book so much.
I’ve only read her original Sevenwaters Trilogy so far, but each of those books has succeeded in captivating me with a full range of real emotion.
I usually avoid sad books because the emotion often feels contrived, but these are not tearjerkers.
I wanted to reach in and prevent her from making terrible mistakes, or do something to help her find her way.But Fainne's growth and discovery from beginning to end was a journey that I found totally worth it.
The series started with the wild swans fairy-tale retelling featuring the Daughter of the Forest, Sorcha and continued with Sorcha’s daughter, Liadan in Son of the Shadows.
Furthermore, Fainne believes herself to be cursed by her heritage, blood of the evil sorceress Oonagh (her granny), which , on the one hand, gives her powerful magic and on the other sets her steps toward a destiny of darkness.
She is socially and emotionally impaired, and these are two huge disadvantages, especially that bearing the blood of four races Fainne believes herself to be set apart from the ordinary people and destined to be evil.I can do morally ambiguous protagonists.
Our novel truly begins, though, when the Lady Oonagh, Fianne's grandmother, blackmails her granddaughter into infiltrating Sevenwaters and preventing a prophecy from coming true.
Johnny, the son of Liadan and Bran, is the titular child of the prophecy upon which the hopes of Sevenwaters lie as they face a perilous time nearing war with the Britons, specifically the Northwoods who neighbor Harrowfield.
Without a doubt, Fianne's growth as a character is the best this series has delivered so far, and likely will be for her circumstances lend themselves to so much room for improvement.
Yes, I can see all the things that connect or influence one or the other, but while in the first book it was novel and gave the reader instant connection to the story and gave a familiar groundwork for all to feel as if they have common ground to start from, by this third book, the stories were far away from the reader's knowledge base and had little to do with effecting the story, but were just snippets of the character's reality, thus loosing their gravitas and making them close to irrelevant.
Although I loved revisiting the old characters from the previous novels, it was just missing something.Now because I read the first book long before I started writing reviews, I feel that I should say something about it – Maybe it will help to explain why even though this was a very good book, I just didn’t enjoy it as much as the others.
I will have to re read Daughter of the Forest and write a review for it, but in the meantime I will attempt to convey how absolutely wonderful it was and why this series touched me so.
In other words, to be a normal person.Fainne is a different sort of woman from Sorcha and Liadan.
But while Oonagh was driven by vengeance and had a clear goal in mind, that Fainne is capable of such a thing when all of her instincts tell her NO really made me question her character and morality.
I also questioned her slow realization that the amulet was not a good thing.
Fainne doesn’t even start to question her grandmother’s motives until the book is over halfway done.
But Fainne's flaws made me dislike aspects of her character.
Também não gostei do final dado à heroína desta história; a solução final assemelhou-se mais um castigo que a uma honraria, mas, lá está, neste género de histórias há sempre um “infeliz” que dedica a vida a uma causa renunciando ao mundo e aos seus.
Sempre numa linguagem acessível e fluida, chegando a atingir um ritmo verdadeiramente frenético, a autora criou histórias envolventes, que nos fazem esquecer da vidinha e mergulhar num mundo de magia, de amores com tanto de impossíveis como de indestrutíveis, personagens fortes que defendem as suas causas sem renunciar aos seus valores.
However, it's a bit different in that Fainne's rather scandalous parentage (scandalous even by today's standards), her rather withdrawn personality, and her very powerful magical talents make her an outsider and an object of mistrust to many of the characters we know and trust from the first two novels.
The first two books starred two young women made of very much the same stuff, and were easy to like.
This book starred a new type of character, but the theme of strong women making big, world-shaking decisions shines through, and remains true to the rest of the trilogy.
I don't think that Juliet Marillier is actually capable of writing a bad book.
This third book in the Sevenwaters series, while not my favourite of the first three, is nevertheless excellent.Marillier nicely ties up the various threads that have built up over the three generations that span the first three books in the series.
Whereas in both Daughter of the Forest and in Son of the Shadows the main characters were both strong and self-assured young women, in Child of the Prophecy Fainne is plagued with doubts about herself and her place in the world.
A new generation of the family is shown in Fainne, Niamh's daughter, who must infiltrate her Sevenwaters' family, who are strangers to her, as ordered by her grandmother Lady Oonagh.
Fainne has grown up on her grandmother's hate and her father's pain, and in relative isolation far from Sevenwaters.
Fainne must learn so much about herself and her family as she tries to find her own path.
The language is lovely, and the story unfolds slowly, much as Fainne's realizations do, as she makes her painful way to adulthood and her place in Sevenwaters.
I wanted more magic since the story was based on Fainne's powers but instead, the final 'battle' was a fight of words.
Fainne's character was great, conflicted but perceptive and somewhat believable.
I didn't feel the emotion at the end of the book with their relationship.
It didn't feel real and i was disappointed with that because the relationships of the characters in the previous books were well written.
It wasn't that great and i was constantly disappointed especially towards the end so it only gets 2 stars from me.

Also something else that differentiates this book is the smaller role of the element of romance, which of course exists but unlike previous books is quite limited as our heroine has much more urgent things to deal with, things that give the tone in our story and give it more depth.
Επίσης κάτι άλλο που διαφοροποιεί αυτό το βιβλίο είναι ο μικρότερος ρόλος που παίζει το στοιχείο του ρομαντισμού, το οποίο φυσικά υπάρχει αλλά σε αντίθεση με τα προηγούμενα βιβλία είναι αρκετά περιορισμένο, καθώς η ηρωίδα μας έχει πολύ πιο επείγοντα πράγματα για να ασχοληθεί, πράγματα που δίνουν και τον τόνο στην ιστορία μας και της προσδίδουν μεγαλύτερο βάθος.
They were diminished and it didn't feel right.The only reason I'm rating this a 2.5 to 3 stars and not less is that it kept me interested till the end - to see what finally happens.
It kept me hoping that it will all take a turn for the better and that somehow this story will climb up to the mark of the previous 2.
After an underwhelming second volume, I was nervous about finishing this series (well, the original trilogy, anyway).
Reading book 3, it further shows me how pointless book 2 was.
She could have taken everything important in book 2 (which amounts to about a chapter or two of information) and just folded it in to books 1 and 3.
It also amazes me that everyone hails The Mists of Avalon as something of a feminist pagan bible while ignoring this series.
The Sevenwaters series has strong pagan female characters and is just dripping with Celtic lore.
While it's helpful to read the other two books first, Child of the Prophecy can work as a standalone: a generation passes in between and there's a new heroine, a young sorceress named Fainne (pronounced Fawn-ya).
Many fans of the previous books seem to dislike this one for reasons that aren't flaws in my eyes: it's rather bleak in tone, the heroine is far from perfect and the ending is bittersweet.
But I can't imagine a better conclusion for this trilogy: thematically and in terms of plot and character, Child of the Prophecy works excellently.
At first, she is introduced to us as a dark character, what makes us think that she will be the Villain of the story, but as the story unfolds we realise that she is the hero, a really strong, generous and unbelievablly brave girl.
I loved the fact that despite the addition of new characters, there were still a lot of intrvention from Liadan and other characthers form book 2 that I loved so much.For me, this is the best conclusion that this series could have had.
Even his new god is formed in his own image, for do they not call him the son of man?
In the conclusion to the Seven Waters trilogy Fianne, finds herself the puppet of her grandmother, Oonagh in her plot to destroy the Fair Folk. Despite Fianne's inherent goodness Oonagh uses magic to poison her mind and twist her. She must find the strength to fight Oonagh's evil influence and end a war that has been waged for generations. Another good instalment to the Seven Waters series and the end of the first trilogy. I'm not sure if I'll continue. I mean is it worth walking away while I still love it?
4.5 StarsI didn't love this one quite as much as the first two books (it took me a long time to get into it, one aspect really creeped me out, and I guessed the ending), but I still really enjoyed it! Now I have to decide whether I want to read the second trilogy...
Pode não ser tão grandioso e entusiasmante como os anteriores, mas não deixa igualmente de me encantar e de me tocar na alma :)...........5****
3.5 stars that I’m rounding up because overall this series is fantastic. This one was my least favorite of the first three and the only one where I had a lot of trouble with empathy for the MC but it’s still a solid entry in the series and I will be happily moving on to the next book.
Acabei este livro e adorei! Senti-me transportada, como nos 2 1ºs livros, para outras eras e outras paisagens. Um história bem desenvolvida e que deixa vontade de saber mais.
If you haven't read book two, Niamh is sent away in an effort to keep her away from her love because (view spoiler)[he's her half uncle, conceived when the "evil stepmother" took over seven waters, and after she turned the brothers into swans.
And, of course, when the prophecy rolled around (something like "the raven marked would save the old magic or whatever") (view spoiler)[ and Fianne takes the place of Liadan's son, does she get *anything* ANYTHING from this horrible family in exchange for living the rest of her life in seclusion?
Marillier builds tension not only within the book, but across a three-book arc.
The woman is a master of her craft.
Marillier ponders the value and purpose of storytelling in everday life, but her books are not self-reflexive meditations on narration as a device, per se.
Gives me the same feeling I get when I finish a Neil Gaiman book.The only reason I didn't give this five stars is there is a bit too much should-I-or-shouldn't-I angst from the main character.
fate cage match that's been building for three books.
Fianne is the daughter of Ciaran and Niamh, with a heritage that includes the strength and goodness of the Sevenwaters clan as well as the darkness of Lady Oonagh.
After a mysterious illness strikes Ciaran, Lady Oonagh shows up to torment Fianne.
Lady Oonagh convinces Fianne that she is destined to be evil, even while controlling her by threatening the people she loves.
Lady Oonagh is still plotting to destroy Sevenwaters and plans to use Fianne to accomplish her evil plan.
As the residents of Sevenwaters gradually work their way into Fianne's heart, she learns that she is stronger than she ever realised and reaches deep within herself to fight Lady Oonagh.A satisfying ending to a marvelous trilogy.
5 stars. I'll be honest this is my least favorite of the original trilogy, but it's still an amazing novel and a great conclusion to the original arc. Review to come.
Fianne has loved a boy she played with as a child but she dares not let him into her life with the threat of her cruel grandmother hanging over her head.I will do no more to spoil this story, but the climax to all of this is an incredible "can not put it down" read bringing together some of my favorite characters from the previous books.
I have come to love these people as well as the beautiful forests and rivers of Sevenwaters, the fey who live there, as well as the "old ones" from ancient times.One thing I found interesting as I re-read them.
Fainne struggles with the suicide of her mother and despite Niamh's cheerfulness, Fianne is much more calm, liking to be on her own like her father.
But Fainne' peaceful life is turn upside down when her grandmother makes an appearance at her door determined to take revenge against the Sevenwaters.
She has flaws and because of that you can relate with her character.The relationship between Fainne and Darragh was so heartbroken and sweet but I hated that the author did not give much of them like Bran and Liadan.
Quem lê os anteriores, repara de imediato que este tem um início lento. Mas que tem de ser, de modo a mais tarde compreendermos o turbilhão de acontecimentos do fim.Mesmo assim, este livro é uma obra excelente. Só uma grande autora consegue retratar e construir personagens tão carismáticas e realistas.Uma série das melhores que alguma vez li.
