https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18116.His_Dark_Materials
I can't believe I had never reread this series! Such a fascinating world, such a good story!
The trailer made the movie look AMAZING, so naturally (as I always do), I thought…”I MUST read this book!”.
Quite frequently, I found myself looking at the cover of these books again and again to ensure that I was indeed reading a “children’s” novel.
No offense to you, Encyclopedia Brown, my dear friend.While I hesitate to compare to Potter, I want to point out one main difference which I think is very important to anyone thinking about purchasing this series for their intrepid young reader….while HP deals with the strong ideals of good vs.
And sometimes, just sometimes, Philip Pullman writes a book.Now I don't want it to sound like the series is the worst ever written.
The two team up and have a number of relatively dull adventures as we learn more about the great war brewing between heaven and earth and about the prophecy that Lyra is to be the new Eve and that she is to perpetrate a great betrayal and the freedom of all the worlds is at stake.
Also introduced is an ex-nun-now-particle-physicist named Mary Malone who is prophesied to be the serpent/tempter to Lyra's Eve.An interesting set-up for the final book despite being introduced by three-hundred pages of boredom punctuated by moments of ingenuity and interest.________________The Amber SpyglassBook three was just a mess.

The book begins as a simple rescue mission but ends as a story that is questioning the morals of all characters involved.
I wrote a review criticising the fact that the novel felt awkward; it had no beginning or end: it just felt like the typical content you’d find in the middle of the story.
So I’m going to read the third book before I speak any more about this- I need to see where these elements Pullman added go to.
The first book, The Golden Compass, is one of the best fantasy novels I have ever read.
I am inclined to agree.The first book, The Golden Compass, features the adventures of 11-year-old Lyra Belacqua, a precocious hooligan in a world almost but not quite ours, and the eponymous mechanism around which much of the story's plot is based.
By itself, it might seem like a bit of a flighty read - fun, engaging, imaginative, but a bit strange at times, slyly heretical, even gruesome, leaving one to wonder "What is this really about?" Some critics (mostly of the sort that would have books like The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn banned) have come to the shallow conclusion that the series is nothing but a vessel for diatribe against certain religions institutions, never named but nevertheless obvious in reference.
To add to that: a cynic grown so dull with the slop of the world that they have been rendered unable to see the raw charm of these characters Lyra and Will, and the amazing sad kind of beauty that comes with making the irreversible passage from childhood to adulthood.
Pullman is able to weave together in the thread of this narrative so many aspects of our worldly existence, including physics, evolution, literature, intraspective thinking (or meditative quieting of the mind, I'm not sure what to call it), religion, adolescence, and first love into a story that has all the charm and imaginative freedom of a fantasy work.
We meet only Lyra in book #1 but by book #2 and #3 we have a lot of Will's involvement too and it quickly becomes a series about friendship, strength of character, love and adventure.The character and worlds within this feel very genuine and expansive and I definitely connected with some truly horrific moments of the plot and felt deep sorrow, joy and sadness for the different characters at differing moments.On the whole and excellent one to reread and a solid 4.5*s on the reread becuase of all the new things I picked up and loved the second time through :) Highly recommended!
A sequel, or companion book, titled The Book of Dust is due to be published in 2017.The trilogy is categorized as for children and teens, but it is as much for adults as it's themes and views take on an anti-religious, anti-church point of view.
However, Pulliam says it is more about the dangers of strict, rigid religious doctrine and institutions than it is anti God or anti Faith.
Pulliam refers to himself as agnostic atheist.Pulliam's primary influences for the book were the works of William Blake and John Milton's Paradise Lost.
It's actually a flipped over retelling of Paradise Lost.I loved this book.
This is one of those series that is written for children on the surface, but that is highly relevant and readable for adults as well as it contains layer upon layer of meaning and symbolism.
I'm sure that you can read this trilogy again and again and still constantly discover new things - I certainly felt like a was missing out on a lot while reading just because so many things happened, and I knew there was more to them than what I realized.
I was constantly surprised at how intricate this series is and how relevant it is to everyone in our world.
Pullman does promote healthy skepticism and warns against blind faith and a failure to embrace life in this world, but if anything, I think his books would help parents talk to their children about these abstract and important issues.
After all, helping children and young adults to try and understand the world around them and discover truth in whatever form they ultimately find it, is never a bad thing and is actually a necessary part of the process of achieving a deeper faith.
By the time a person is old enough to understand any anti-religion message in these books, he is old enough to start critically evaluating his belief system.
Lyra's characterization is vivid--truly a memorable character--and I liked the world building.
I loved Will and Lyra as dual leads.
The story expanded here and grew much darker; favorite characters were revisited and new, compelling plot lines introduced.I listened to The Amber Spyglass in summer 2017.
I was so very excited to finish the series, especially knowing how much longer Spyglass is than the previous installments.
But, as many have said on GR, Spyglass is both too long and too short; it reads like a great draft but not as a finished work.
I'm willing to take a chance on books considered straight fantasy or science fiction, but I haven't been making the best choices this year other than Kraken.
She is the heroine through determination, compassion, and wit.I felt enough urgency in the plot to want to know "what happens next." It kept me reading.The Gyptian tribal people demonstrate a certain level of "town hall" democracy in their decision-making process.
There is a running theme through the book that the fictional Church is trying to hide certain revelations that might bring into question orthodox religious doctrine.
Even after the second book, it seemed as though he was only speaking out against corrupt religion, which I think is a good thing.
He writes about love and accepting people even with their faults (his main characters are flawed on purpose, I think) and the power of human relationships and following your instincts and the great value of learning.
But the major flaw I see is that his goal is to show that religion is the antithesis of all of those good things; it is only useful for repressing people.
So, while he may know a lot about life, he is quite ignorant about religion and people's reasons for being religious.
I loved meeting the ice bears and I'm looking forward to the next book!I liked the film adaptation for its effects and the cast.
The script just suffered unendingly, poor thing, and that made it utter crap overall.The Subtle Knife - 18Oct174 starsFirst of all, I'm amazed that I didn't make mention in my Golden Compass review of how fantastic the full cast audiobook is.
different series, same idea ;) I'll be ever glad to have visited this world (worlds?) and I'm looking forward to the new Book of Dust series so I can come back!Trilogy overall - 5 starsThis is one of those series everyone should read.
when it does occur, i would like to be someplace like a church where there will be lots of people Raptured...
that way, right afterwards, i'll be able to pick up all the wallets and purses that are also Left Behind.
you don't need money in heaven, right?
and with all the honest folk gone, i also feel confident that post-Rapture will be ripe for money-making opportunities.
i can indulge in all the hustles, scams, and grifts i've ever wanted, to my heart's content - but without feeling any sadness over cheating any of the Good People.
yay, bring on those post-Rapture greenbacks!
Defenitely a winner! Normally this sort of fantasy books is not my cup of tea but I adored reading this book. The themes it handles are very grown-up (I don't understand how a child could understand all what is in the book). It never becomes trivial or laughable. Everyone thinks very logically. The plans are well taught over and everyone handles according to this plans. I don't know what to say more about the book. Just read it!
One of those books you don't want to finish. Wow. I could recommend this to literally ANYone, and if they have the gumption and persistence, they would get a helluvalot out of it. WHAT DO I HAVE TO SAY TO CONVINCE YOU?!? Just read it, think about it, enjoy it.
People are too complicated to have simple labels.'"Challenge: #MyEverymansLibraryNote: This Everyman's Library edition contains all three books of the trilogy (Northern Lights, The Subtle Knife and The Amber Spyglass), so some of this review might be a bit spoilery.I first read the His Dark Materials books a good few years ago, so, naturally, I barely remembered anything from books two and three.
It's definitely a trilogy that I want to reread again in the future - because it is so complex and detailed, I think I'll find something new each time I go back to it.Recommended for: people who wish to read a wonderfully imagined fantasy with a lot of heart and profound themes.~~~~~Review also posted here.
Never has a book/series had such an impact on me as His Dark Materials, specifically The Amber Spyglass.
The film was incredibly disappointing (they stopped two-thirds of the way through the book, for God's sake) and wanted to see if the books helped clarify some of the plot holes in the movie.
The alternate universe Philip Pullman has created is much darker than the movie (especially as you move into The Subtle Knife and The Amber Spyglass).I know everyone's heard of how controversial this series is.
Most prominently in The Amber Spyglass, Pullman subtly (and in other places, not so subtly) deals great blows to the Christian faith, or religion in general.
He assumes you're smart enough to understand where he's taking you and how you're going to get there and he's smart enough to let you draw your own conclusions.The arc of Lyra "Silvertongue" Belacqua is a wonderful and satisfying one and her story is one of the few really strong ones for young female characters in young adult fantasy fiction.
His characters are the real story here and they are painted wonderfully and with incredibly detail.Its his daemons that I love the most and every time I pick these books up to read again, and I do often, I spend a considerable amount of time wondering what form my own would take.
This is not a series I would have exposed my children to.
There is a deal of indoctrination here, or if you consider the Narnia series indoctrination then maybe you won't use that term in this case.
So up to the parent, or if we're talking adults then, the reader.(view spoiler)[I gave a spoiler warning in case you don't want to read farther.
This series is basically a set of books where what passes for the "church" is evil and it works to a point where the children with the help of their own demons finally "kill god".
This was a truly amazing story. I'm actually giving it a 4.75 instead of a 5. It was getting a strong 5 until the ending. It wasn't a horrible ending but it could have been better. I cried if that tells you something. : /
If Harry Potter series were considered heretic by some groups of people, I don't know what will they say when they read Philip Pullman's His Dark Materials as the books do reflect anti-Christianism with God portrayed as vindictive and authoritarian figure growing ..dare I say it?
Very much like losing one's soul I guess where a person is like losing his essence or being.Then the battle of good and evil and the shaking of our belief of what has always been considered good may not necessarily be good.His Dark Materials delight and entertain as a fantasy novel even though there are some parts which I think wander too much out of the story...however, regardless all that - it's an interesting read.
It's that concept that dominates the plot of the "Northern Lights" (called "The Golden Compass" in the U.S.), and the book is a good read.Then Pullman starts to expand his fantasy world, with "The Subtle Knife," and each addition tends to water it down and make the cosmology both more complicated and more incoherent.
The third book is long and winding (and long-winded) and poorly structured, and Pullman just keeps inventing more creatures and more worlds and more cosmological twists and more, more, more that results in a clatter of silliness as the series finally reaches its silly and unsatisfying climax.If ever there was a popular fantasy series with a "making it up as he went along" feel to it, it's this one (moreso even than the "Star Wars" movie series and the "Twilight" books).
I really like the way Pullman plays with big and important ideas about the basic nature of reality and about faith without the book ever feeling preachy, heavy-handed, or overly intellectual.
I'm incredibly curious to find out how Pullman elaborates on this connection between science and religion, between these two different ways of exploring our universe and creating meaning, in the final book of the series.*****************************Wow. I mean, wow.
I enjoyed this book, this series, so much that I cannot wait until I get a chance to read them again.
Very rarely do I start a book and not finish it.
I've read some really awful books in my time and have managed to finish most.
However, I gave up on this book on page 277.
I think 277 pages is more than enough to get an idea of whether or not a book is worth finishing.
This one isn't worth finishing.
I really don't care about the controversy surrounding the author, his philosophy and how it's presented in the book.
I've read too many wonderful books this year to waste time on something terrible.
#KæreWonders#ViLæserDarkMaterials
I started reading this trilogy almost two years ago with my girlfriend, and despite taking some very long stretches off, we finally finished it today (her review in brief: the end drags a bit).
To be honest, I didn't understand the books, or the impact they had on me, until we started re-reading them last year.
The end of THE AMBER SPYGLASS could never have meant as much to me as it did reading it to my girlfriend.This edition is absolutely beautiful, with some "lantern slides" added in between the books which function almost like deleted scenes.
Many of the characters exist solely as two-dimensional metaphors and many of the plot developments and magical or fantastical elements of the world seem to exist solely to make the point that no, we're not in Narnia anymore, the lion is not Jesus and actually the church is trying to destroy all happiness.
The good-hearted people are also SO good-hearted, and also so likely to get violently killed in the midst of heroic sacrifice, that it's hard to relate to anybody in these books at all apart from the protagonists, who are actually characters rather than symbols.That said, the daemons are pretty cool idea, and it's imaginative and well written.
I DID IT
