https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238369.The_Guiltless
Είναι κάτι παρόμοιο με τις ιστορίες του Πόε: αναμφίβολα μπορεί να σου κόψει το αίμα, λιγότερο με αυτό που χρησιμοποιεί, παρά την ιδιάζουσα ατμοσφαιρικότητα του και περισσότερο για την αληθοφανή άλογη ουσία των αβάπτιστων καταστάσεων, υπό της φαινομενικότητας, αλλά χωρίς να φτάνουμε στα σύννεφα της μεταφυσικής.
Στα πολύ όμορφα σημεία του βιβλίου η μεταμόρφωση της Μελίττα, από αθώα, σε αθώα ( αναφερόμενος μόνο στην αρχή της δεύτερης ιστορίας και όχι στο τέλος, αυτό θα ήταν κουτό και ανήθικο ).
häuft Reichtümer an und kann schließlich – trotz seiner Kälte und seines Desinteresses für die Bedürfnisse anderer – sogar noch rechtzeitig errettet werden, bevor er aus dem vielleicht gnadenbringenden Zustand des „schuldlos Schuldigen“ in den des Schuldigen übergeht.Broch nutzt seine Konstruktion, um das Bild einer Gesellschaft zu malen, die in ihrer Vereinzelung, im Verlust echter Spiritualität und philosophischer Tiefe, orientiert an oberflächlichem geschäftlichen oder auch privaten Erfolg und vor allem bar aller Empathie oder sensiblen Wahrnehmungsfähigkeit dessen, was um sie her vor sich geht, das Unheil nicht nur nicht kommen sieht, sondern ihm durchaus Vorschub leistet.
But then again, this book may not be Broch's best.One more thing, there is a passage in the 'Making Of' chapter at the end that reminded me of Mount Analogue, which was one of my recent favorites, so I wanted to share it...For the totality of being that an art work is (by virtue of representing it), necessarily encompasses infinity and nothingness, and these two are the foundation of all conceptual knowledge, the foundation (denied to animals) of the most human of all human faculties: namely, the faculty of being able to say "I." Consequently both are irrevocably fundamental to man, though they are beyond the scope of his knowledge, in part because, though one can always think and even count toward infinity and nothingness, one can never reach them, regardless of how many steps of thought or enumeration one takes, because the ultimate foundations of existence (otherwise they would not be ultimate) lie in a second, logical sphere removed from it and accordingly cannot be grasped by the methods of the first sphere.
O motivo pelo qual não dou cinco estrelas: pura teimosia. É porque se trata de um livro que se admite imperfeito; um livro híbrido, uma costura de contos, poesia, romance de ideias, fábula moral, conto fantástico, ensaio filosófico, enfim: tudo aquilo que caracteriza a prosa dos grandes narradores modernistas germânicos, de Böll a Musil.O posfácio, no qual o próprio autor reflete sobre as suas intenções ao escrever e a função da obra de arte num mundo complexo que é refratário a totalizações, isso sim é cinquestrelas.
Broch writes about the "zeitgeist" in Germany during the period between the two world wars.
This is a novel only in a very loose sense, but not quite a collection of short stories either.
There are distinct storylines: suicidal lovers, a drunken philosophical debate, a story about a man who rooms in a house with a baroness and her mother, and some religious/political musings, but they are interrelated and read as though they are attacking a larger theme.
The title and afterword suggest that the commonality of all of these stories is the characters' indifference and inaction, setting an attitude prime for Nazism to take hold.
Μεγάλη απογοήτευση.Δεν ξέρω τι μπορεί να φταίει:η μετάφραση,ο ασυνάρτητος λόγος γραφής,η μηδενική υπόθεση;Να ομολογήσω ότι δεν κατάφερα να το ολοκληρώσω..δεν άντεχα!
amazing, amazing, amazing.back in the 1990s I discovered Hermann Broch & The Sleepwalkers thanks to an essay by Milan Kundera.
In something of a reverse of the strategy employed to great effect in The Sleepwalkers, where the narrative breaks down by the book's end, here we begin with fable, poetry, and strange incidents and reflections that slowly coalesce into a unified vision and a comprehensible story.
Thru the thoughts, speeches, & decisions that make up their lives (often reflected in the lives of others) we get a grand picture of a world out of control & moving inexorably (perhaps even "sleepwalking") toward degradation & chaos.The prose, here in a translation from the German by Ralph Manheim, is wondrous.
The fourth star is for the first short story - which must be one of the best short stories ever written in any language.
oh you philosophising Germans... even your the maids and peasants in your books spew torrents of dense philosophical wisdom. anything, but the regular talk of maids and peasants!
"Όταν ο άνθρωπος χάσει τα όριά του, τότε γίνεται και για τον ίδιο του τον εαυτό ένα θαμπό μόρφωμα, και δεν βλέπει πλέο το συνάνθρωπό του."
30 sider inde, og jeg forstår ikke meget og er irriteret. Nix
