https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/174852.The_Man_Who_Knew_Too_Much
G.K. Chesterton is an author who simply must be read by anyone fascinated by quality detective literature.
No, Chesterton is unique in his own particular way.
He possesses a clarity of mind and ability to communicate that prevents inelegance through sheer clumsiness or overphrasing.The Man Who Knew Too Much is not Chesterton's finest work.
Through eight different stories Fisher uses his knowledge to divulge the real criminals of different crimes from murder to theft.
The real issue is in the dilemma Chesterton throws up - that though by law the criminals in the end may be punished, morally they may have escaped (though their souls be damned).
But it will accept anything without authority.” ― G.K. Chesterton, The Man Who Knew Too MuchA collection of Chesterton detective stories revolving around Horne Fisher and his companion, political journalist Harold March.
The strengths of these stories revolves around the clever paradoxes that the Chesterton (the dark prince of paradox) knows too well.
The weakness of these stories (and the reason I gave them 3 stars and not 4 stars) is the unsubtle antisemitism that pops up in a couple of them (especially 'the Bottomless Well').
Stories include:"The Face in the Target""The Vanishing Prince""The Soul of the Schoolboy""The Bottomless Well""The Hole in the Wall""The Fad of the Fisherman""The Fool of the Family""The Vengeance of the Statue"
Amazingly cynical and subversive detective stories, of the sort I never would have expected from Chesterton!
The titular character gives himself that monicker because he is related to / friends with nearly all the important people in Britain, and therefore knows exactly how the country is REALLY run and how the legal system REALLY works.
In essence, it's Chesterton criticizing both British politics and human nature through the medium of dark-yet-beautiful detective stories.
And it works.
I missed a clever deduction like Holmes'.
I missed serene country backdrop like Christie portrays.
The climax of stories are revealed in a bit unhappening way for detective stories.
Why I kept going on was the writing.
Loved it!
I think the modern mystery novels are technically advanced and we expect the detective to be clever, unorthodox hero who twirls magic wand of sudden revelations ( like that of Patrick Jane) so it's not easy to like the Horne Fisher.
Yet I believe back then, he was loved.
But the writing stands still like 24 k gold.
As always an awesome and unique story by Chesterton!
A couple of the mysteries are not especially intriguing, and through most of the stories, whenever I tried to figure out who the culprit was, I ended up finding I was barking up the wrong tree—because some piece of arcane knowledge possessed only by the criminal and the inimitable Horne Fisher formed the clue that solved the mystery.
Read if you want more Chesterton, but don't expect stories of the intricacy, the deep knowledge of human nature, and the sheer memorability of the Father Brown series.
Who knew these were short mystery stories instead of a long, possibly lame novel that was made into an exciting early movie in 1934 with Peter Lorre or a definitely lame 1956 movie with Doris Day singing all the time? Not me, at least until listening to B.J. Harrison's excellent narration on The Classic Tales podcast. These stories are great fun to listen to and occasionally solve. And even when I know whodunnit I don't know why they dunnit. Which is just as much fun to find out.

An interesting collection of short story detective fiction.
Each time because Horne Fisher knows, and understands, that to make the crime or the criminal public will bring down governments, cause wars or destabilise countries.He feels a sense of guilt from his complicity, but because he's part of the system that he's protecting he doesn't have the strength of character to break with the peer pressure he feels and let justice prevail.
That he lacks this strength of character only strengthens his sense of guilt.Luckily, throughout many of the stories, he has a friend.
Mixed feelings. On one hand, Chesterton's prose is often lovely (this is the first I've read from him) and a few of the mysteries are quite engaging. On the other hand, his detective character, Fisher, wasn't engaging for me, and I got tired of the collection's gimmick quickly: murders are intentionally covered up, or the wrong men charged with them, because of the political situation. And while that is a probably too realistic and chilling outcome the first few times, after awhile it makes the outcome predictable. It's well written, of course, but just not my thing.
I regret not paying closer attention, because I missed some of the clever writing and reflections that many other reviews point out.Although somewhat formulaic, each of the stories was interesting enough to keep one's attention in order to discover the twist.
But I suppose that is the bulk of mystery novels, and this one did have a few unexpected solutions.I'm interested to read more Chesterton.
But I think I'll avoid any audio versions, as I think I would have given this 5 stars had I put in the extra effort to read it.
I didn't much care for Wiederman's narration, which made me resort to following along or rereading certain sections in my Kindle edition in order to understand what was happening. Oh well, it was free so nothing lost!
2.5*There is something about Chesterton's writing style that I don't quite like. I noticed this before in reading some of the Father Brown stories. The plots are interesting enough yet I can't say that I like them.
Very quotable, but the prose is a bit dense - dense enough, I'm afraid, that it lost me a few times.
Other people don't seem to have the same issue, so maybe it's just me, reading it when I was too tired and noticing the quips rather than keeping up with the plot."The Man Who Knew Too Much" is a collection of short stories about a man who hangs out with politicians (and is part of a family of politicians himself) and a journalist.
They solve all sorts of crimes which turn out to have political implications and must therefore never be revealed to the general public, or the consequences would be terrible.
Perhaps that's the point of Chesterton's stories - his protagonist Horne Fisher is so strangely brilliant he can see the angles even when they're hardly visible after the reveal.
If it were let out that Lord Culverton's man - for he is the true murderer - was the culprit, there would be a scandal that would threaten to destroy England herself because of [reasons]" all of which is said by Fisher sadly, as if you can hear the weight on his shoulders.
- You KNOW what I mean!")The stories are connected in that they all feature Horne Fisher, mysterious, tired, well-connected, liberal: The Man Who Knew Too Much.
He knows that the big fish will never get caught, that society can't change as long as this knowledge holds true, and that he, despite his knowledge, can not help the country.The book was written in 1922, and it becomes more socialist over the course of the stories.
I tried to ignore the unsubtle political views of the main character, although I might have muttered to myself a fair bit (I never even started The Ragged Trousered Philanthropists because I was shouting abuse just reading the sleeve notes.
Osam whodunit priča smještenih u mikrosvemir gdje centralnu figuru predstavlja naslovni ’čovjek koji je previše znao’- Horne Fisher uz svog sidekicka, tj.
prijatelja Harolda Marcha (političkog novinara i društvenog kritičara- piščev alter ego, a i Fisher ima autorovih karakteristika, tj.
Horne Fisher koji je „izgledao kao da se rodio umoran“ (usp.
Lt. Columbo) i kaže za sebe „znam previše toga, ali sve krive stvari“ generalno je dopadljiv lik.“Osveta kipa“- plot twist s braćom kao u Better Call Saul.Odličan, koncizan pogovor u izdanju Partenona.Hitchcock je posudio samo naslov za sadržajno nevezani film, a postoji, naravno, i parodija Čovjek koji je premalo znao s Billom Murrayem u naslovnoj ulozi.
This is a collection of his novels that revolve around the character of Horne Fisher, the writing style of G.K Chesterton is what kept my attention and kept me hooked on the stories.
Horne Fisher isn't a character who is easy to like and get along with as he isn't like the detectives we are now used too.
I found that the stories were too short and didn't develop the characters much so that you don't get a sense of who they are and what they are capable of to see if you can solve the mystery yourself.
I don't tend to like short detective novels due to the fact you can't get good descriptions of the characters.
In the same vein as the "Father Brown" mysteries, only with Horne Fisher - the man who knows too much - as the super-sleuth. That idea of knowing too much - about human nature, and about certain humans in particular - is carried throughout, and adds depth to the otherwise lighthearted mysteries. I liked these more than the "Father Brown" stories, and am impressed by the diversity of Chesterton's writings.
Fascinating and enjoyable short stories
Chesterton is more famous for his Father Brown detective stories, but this collection of tales about Horne Fisher is Chesterton's attempt to make a cynical Sherlock.
Fisher knows too much, and can literally "blow it all apart" with the things he knows about politics, society, and human nature.
Keeping things hidden for the greater good.
Yes. It's an interesting concept and Chesterton does a good job creating story after story that shows Fisher's talent and skill.
There's also a bunch of hand-waving where political things are discussed in a very "us vs them" mentality with little detail.
If you can stomach those flaws, this is a good collection.
This collection of eight mystery tales featuring detective Horn Fisher was enjoyable but doesn’t stand up to the quality or intricacy of stories written by the great mystery authors such as Christie, Poe, or Doyle.
Fisher stumbles upon crimes in high society and he really knows too much do try doing something against each culprit whose identity he is able to figure out all the time without failing.
These people are untouchable due to their high influence, general reluctance of the people in power to show dirty laundry in public, "for the good of the country", and other similar reasons.The mystery part of the stories is always good and I like most of them more than the ones of the most famous Chesterton's detective Father Brown.
For me seeing the murderers, traitors, and other serious criminal escaping justice was quite depressing as well as cynical - but this is exactly how it works in real life, unfortunately.
I had seen the Alfred Hitchcock movie of the same name (the one starring Jimmy Stewart) and thought this would be a suspenseful story and a boy would get kidnapped because his dad unwittingly overheard criminals talking, and then the mom sings "Que Sera Sera" and the boy is found.
It's a series of short stories that have mysteries that are all figured out by the titular man.
The "too much" that he knows refers to behind the scenes and under the table political deals and scandals and the like.
Even though he solves mysteries, justice isn't always accomplished because of these secret deals.
Although billed as detective stories, these are instead a collection of tales of political satire.
The Man Who Knew Too Much is Horne Fisher, who is related to or knows most of the British ruling/political class.
Chesterton was not a socialist, but he did have a feel for the common man and his struggles, and it shows in this book.
I don't know if his and Belloc's theory of distributism was fully accomplished yet, but the seeds are there.I can't say I loved this book but it had its moments.
The writing is lively and the conclusions of the stories make sense, even though Horne Fisher seems to figure them out rather easily.
Eight short stories with a detective unlike many others, because this one knows a little too much ab
I was expecting a collection of Holmesian mystery stories. Instead I was faced with what I assume is social satire, but of an age and a nation I'm not familiar with. The prose is dense, overly descriptive, and to my mind inelegant. The characters are one-dimensional and utterly unbelievable. I can't say I actively disliked this book, as parts of it were clever and entertaining, but finishing it definitely took a certain amount of willpower.
A collection of eight short mysteries, "whodunits", all connected by the same characters Horne Fisher and Harold March. Some of the short mysteries are better than others, a few quite defy belief and some are not politically correct by any means. The Face In The Target and The Vengence of the Statue were the two stronger mysteries in my opinion.Not a great deal of characterisation, but wonderful for atmosphere, time and place.
Eight stories featuring the title character, Home Fisher, a perceptive solver of crimes who does not indict his criminals, because he knows too much of the background story and the dangers into which the nation would fall if certain things were revealed. The stories: "The Face in the Target""The Vanishing Prince""The Soul of the Schoolboy""The Bottomless Well""The Hole in the Wall""The Fad of the Fisherman""The Fool of the Family""The Vengeance of the Statue"
Eight short stories involving Home Fisher. Fisher is a natural detective with outstanding logic and reasoning skills. Like most dectives in stories from the 1920's, he has a faithful sidekick who assists him.
