https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260683.Scattered_Poems
The Beats and I through the ages: Figure A: Allen Ginsberg: (1) Teenager: "Wow, this guy is brilliant!"(2) Early 20s: "What a try-hard bore."(3) Late 20s, having been reunited with "Howl" by way of an upper-level university course: "Wow, this guy is pretty brilliant." Figure B: Jack Kerouac: (1) Teenager: "Wow, this guy is so cool!"(2) Early 20s: "Jeez, this guy needs to lay off the sauce."(3) Late 20s: "Now where did I leave my copy of Howl...?"
3.5 * Keturias * daviau is senos meiles autoriui.TO EDWARD DAHLBERGDon't use the telephone. People are never ready to answer it. Use poetry.  1970
I bought this the first time I checked out the City Lights Bookstore in San Francisco (which was a neat little store, by the way).
I wanted to get something Kerouac and I walked away with this, mostly cause i've never read any of his poetry before.
I didn't have as hard of a time as I anticipated i would have, considering my usual struggles with poetry (which I've finally decided that it is POETRY that doesn't like me, rather than the other way around).
At times I went along with it just fine, other times I had no idea what was going on and wishing i had an audio tape of him reading it for me or something.
If you like sonnets or poems with intricate, delicate lines that beautifully describe scenery or the human experience, this is NOT the poem book for you.
This poem book is the exact opposite- it's dirty, vulgar, playful, funny, urban, and very much attuned to the Beat Generation.
I liked it.
It takes a stab at American life and explores the madness and disruption of the "Apple-pie American Dream" due to modernization/urbanization (and drugs, let's be honest.) If something dirty and playful like "pull my daisy" doesn't make you laugh, again, this is not the poem book for you.
Along with Dharma Bums, these 'Scattered Poems' (a few in particular) probably changed my life and the way I write and carry myself. If you're attempting to read Dharma Bums, you really should find a copy of Scattered and read the two together because there's a lot of related subject material about Japhy and his coming about. Just amazing.
"Súbitamente comprendí que todas las cosas sólo van y vienen,incluido cualquier sentimiento de tristeza: también se irá,triste hoy, alegre mañana: sobrio hoy borracho mañana,¿por qué inquietarse tanto?Todos en el mundo tienen defectos, lo mismo que yo.¿Por qué deprimirse?Es sólo un sentimiento que viene y va"
Only for the hardcore Kerouac fan. Unpolished scribblings with a gem here and there, but overall an undisciplined collection.
Kdo vůbec pozná svět dříve, než zcela pomine?
Some people just seem so cool in theory, but then burp, fart, vomit, they're human and they suck.After On the Road, I did not have high hopes for ever liking any of his work, but then this cute little book came into my hands, and I had the terrible audacity to believe that this could for some reason be better.
The way he writes, I thought maybe it would lend better to poetry.
Maybe it was a little better than On the Road, but I'm not going to give it any real credit that I don't think it deserves though.
It was a fun little ditty, I'm still struggling to read poetry and it has been a long time since I've attempted Jack again.
Probably its like listening to Ornette Coleman where one must plough through for awhile to begin to understand the language and the timing which at first will be an affront to the ears.
One little nugget in a rare moment of lucidity:"Above all, a haiku must be very simple and free of all poetic trickery and make a little picture and yet be as airy and graceful as a Vivaldi Pastorella."
This is a quick read. A quick and pointless read. I finished and was trying to remember which poem came across as really well written and went back through the book and couldn't find it! That was how much of an impression the best poem in the book made on me! Sorry, Kerouac. This was total drek.
I read and re-read this constantly when I was stuck in the middle of nowhere for a couple years.
This was not my favorite book of poetry and a bit off the wall for me, but it was a good representation of the times.
While the poems try to be innovative, Kerouac's randomness seems less about language exploration and more about throwing darts & seeing what sticks. There are a few cringy moments regarding women and POC as well. Even if one can't fully understand a poem, the lines should be able to convey some type of emotion. There was none of that here. On top of my criticism of the work, this particular edition is outdated and disorganized.
I read this many years ago and carried it in my back pocket throughout all my world travels. I’d occasionally pick a poem and read it for a bit of inspiration but I’ve never read it cover to cover. Not feeling quite as inspired as I was when I read it in my 20s. But that being said.. I really enjoyed the Haikus at the end.
This is more of a taste-tester than a full-collected works by Jack Kerouac. I found many of these to be highly fascinating as Kerouac was a lead pioneer for the Beat Generation. Some poems felt dry, such as the "Western Haikus" towards the end which I only liked two.
Don't like Kerouac's style. He just isn't for me.
Although some of the poems were truly really good, I definitely prefer his prose
I didn't understand any of these poems...I only read this because I had to for my Creative Writing class
My favorite:TO EDWARD DAHLBERGDon't use the telephone.People are never ready to answer it.Use poetry.
Some hit, some miss.Those that hithit true.
A brief, seemingly inconsequential collection of poems. Decent, as is all of Kerouac's poetry, but there's really not anything of note here to make this entirely essential.
I honestly don't even get what this was. And I love poetry. I'll probably try to read it through again to see if I can actually understand or interpret what Kerouac is saying in this, but, let's be real, he was probably high off his ass when he wrote these poems so who really cares?
City Lights, with help from Ginsberg, compiled a small volume of these poems and released them some thirty years ago.While a few of the works here (and, in some cases, a line or two within one of the works) shows the power and natural affinity for language that makes Kerouac one of the enduring figures of American literature, Most of what's here is solid evidence that, where uncollected poems are concerned, there's usually a reason why they weren't published in the first place.
Kerouac was one of the first American authors to really grasp the spirit of English-language haiku, as mentioned in a brief intro to the book's last section.
Some poems are more focused on sound than meaning and that has to be constantly kept in mind when reading Jack's poetry.
A pleasant surprise came early on when I read the Pull My Daisy poems at the start of the book and noticed that they were in fact co-written by Kerouac, Ginsberg AND CASSADY!
I never knew Cassady had written any poems until now.
This is probably the weakest book of Jack's I have read to date but keep in mind the fact that maybe even he didn't think it publishable.
I tried to like this poetry collection, but it just isn’t for me- lucky for me, it is a short collection. I couldn't connect with the majority of the poems, it felt like I’d just read someone’s rambling thoughts (albeit a creative someone). Admittedly this is the first collection of poems I've read so take this with a grain of salt. I found two poems that resonated with me, the following is one of these, a short "western haiku" found in the last three pages of the collection: Perfect moonlit nightmarredby family squabbles
Notable for the inclusions of "Fie My Fum" (with Ginsberg) and both versions of "Pull My Daisy" (with Ginsberg and Cassady) which it spawned.
Though they're not long enough to dominate the collection.
The collection concludes with a series of Western Haikus.
To quote Kerouac:A "Western Haiku" need not concern itself with the seventeen syllables since Western languages cannot adapt themselves to the fluid syllabillic Japanese.
I propose that the "Western Haiku" simply say a lot in three short lines in any Western language.
I'd give the collection 3 1/2 stars if I could.
I have never read Jack Kerouac before, but my brother raved about On The Road, so I thought I'd start small and work my way up.
I found the language to be quite accessible, and could easily identify Kerouac's voice.
My favourite poem of all was "Poem" of 1962, which speaks of wishing the human race to die, and being cursed as the last of us all as a result.
I also loved the Western Haiku's, my favourite being: Missing a kick at the icebox door It closed anyway.
I thought that one in particular held something very honest and true about life inside of it.
As the title suggests, this collection of poetry consists of a scattered collection of Kerouac's poetry from ephemeral publications, and scraps from his notebooks.
Oddly, this is the same quality of the poetry I enjoyed, after all, the off the cuff, jazzy, poetry of this collection in many ways epitomizes what the beat generation was all about.
The beat movement was about more than senseless journeying, it was also about Art, and Art is what this collection seems to lack.All things considered this collection is a little disappointing.
Whilst I enjoy the works of Kerouac, Ginsberg is the far more accomplished poet.
It's Jack; not a god made man. Not a hallowed shrine. It's Jack. A snippet of scribbles that were written and later decided to publish. In some senses it is a chaotic collection. For me, I found the most resonance with the poems in the middle. But that is reflective of the beat lifestyle and what he was-what his experiences were. Come to this book with no expectations. While entire poems may fail to captivate, in this work it is the poignant stanza that is outstanding. No expectations folks. It's Jack; not a god made man.
