https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29496076-killers-of-the-flower-moon
We walk in two worlds.”The Osage Indians lived in Kansas until the 1870s when the government decided that their land was too valuable for them to own.
As an example, if an Osage wanted a car, the guardian would buy a car for $250 and sell it to the Indian for $1,250.
When the suspicious deaths of Osage Indians reached twenty-four, the fledgling director of the Bureau of Investigations ( It would not be called the Federal Bureau of Investigations until 1935.) J.
The other problem was that white people felt the Indians did not deserve the money.
Reading about injustice -historical tragedies--such greed - such ugliness---does something to us.
We feel different- changed in ways - after reading a book like this.
It's the type of book that makes me want to 'do something'.
but there is much in this small book many people are not aware of.
Author David Grann kept peeling off the layers of the onion....by uncovering the magnitude of the numbers of murders that took place within the Osage Tribe.
plus this Native American Historical story...........If the combination of these two books alone don't completely transform you about your stand about American Indian Rights ....SO MUCH SO ....
He leaves us feeling ambiguous, not about White, but about Hoover.The Osage Indians once laid claim to much of the central part of what is now called the United States, “a territory that stretched from what is now Missouri and Kansas to Oklahoma and still farther west, all the way to the Rockies.” The tribe was physically imposing, described by Thomas Jefferson as “the finest men we have ever seen,” whose warriors typically stood over six feet tall.
“White people in Oklahoma thought no more of killing an Indian than they did in 1724.” said John Ramsey, one of the men eventually jailed for crimes against the Osage.
I don't know why or even how, after all I have read, I can still be surprised at man's cunning and greed.
This is the story of the investigation into murders that until Hoover involved himself and his men, we're virtually shoved under the rug and going nowhere.
So we learn about the murders, a little about Hoover, more about a man who was known as a cowboy in the service and he would be the one who broke open this case.
Well put together, though out, this book was easy to read and very informative.
All conspiracies are the same taut story of men who find coherence in a criminal act- Don DelilloThis is a stunning historical true crime 'novel' centered around corrupt and shameful politics, racism, and greed that fueled the ‘Osage reign of terror’, back in the 1920’s and was responsible for the birth of the first ‘Bureau of Investigation”-When Mollie Burkhart’s sister disappeared, and was later found shot to death, an investigation into her death, as well a bombing and a string of poisonings all aimed at wealthy Osage Indians who benefited from the oil found on their land, began that would eventually expose an incredible conspiracy.
Enthralling, it tells not only of the killing spree against the Osage, but the rise of the oil industry, the development of private detectives and the Bureau of Investigation ( the precursor to the FBI) and the political corruption of the day.
But for someone who came of age in the 70s, when Hoover was more villain than hero, it's interesting to see how much he did to bring the bureau out of its prior history of corruption and scandal.
I highly recommend this book to those who enjoy an entertaining, enlightening nonfiction book.
If you enjoy history and/or true crime I think this is worth giving a go.My main criticism is that while the story is interesting, I am not quite sure it is book worthy.
It seems like this whole story could have been told in 30 to 50 pages or in a Wikipedia article.
Some may disagree, but I hardly felt that this book could be used for a history report on the start of the FBI.This book is recommended for hard core history and true crime buffs.
If you like your history and true crime to be a little less textbook, this may not be the book for you.Side note: the audiobook is mediocre.
I've enjoyed David Grann's earlier work, but this latest one is just fantastic.Killers of the Flower Moon tells a story I hadn't heard before: The "Reign of Terror" in the 1920s, when white folk were murdering dozens of Osage Indians in a despicable attempt to steal their money and rights to Oklahoma oil reserves.
I would highly recommend Killers of the Flower Moon to anyone who likes true crime stories or books about history.Favorite Passage In Pawhuska, I stopped at the Osage Nation Museum ...
The devil and his cohorts wore well-pressed suits and walked among the honest and the God-fearing.In the 1870's, the Osage Indian Nation were driven from their lands in Kansas and forced upon rocky, worthless land in Oklahoma.
David Grann tells this incredible story through the wide periphery of Mollie Burkhart and her family members.
Mollie was an Osage woman married to a white man, Ernest Burkhart.
It is through Mollie that we come to know the brutal crimes committed against her and her family and others living in this town.
I had to know the story of Mollie Burkhart for myself.
This is the true story of the Osage Indians.
(Yup, I looked it up.) Leasing land allowed the Osage to become some of the wealthiest people in the country.
The government even thought they were not educated enough to manage their own money, appointing trustees for each Osage Indian.
It is one of the most chilling, true stories I have read (well, except Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders.)The book details all of this and the many murders of the Osage.
The first narrator, read like she was telling a bed-time story, with over the top embellishments.
This book was nominated for a lot of awards, but for me it didn’t live up to it’s praise.
The cold-blooded murders of the Osage American Indians was a tragic part of American history.
Full of greed and racism.
The book, however, was too long and repetitive.
The greed behind the murders and the disregard for Osage lives was not enough for a full book.
I would have liked to have seen more.I listened to the audiobook and wasn’t impressed by the first narrator who talked about two Osage women, Anna and Mollie, for it seems half the book.
David Grann, a journalist, has done an excellent job investigating and chronicling the terrible story of the Osage American Indian murders in the 1920s.
Grann deserves praise for helping to bring it back to light, and for taking the extra steps to investigate and report on what may have happened to some of the forgotten victims.
It makes you want to weep for humanity, but there are a few shining lights in the story."To believe that the Osages survived intact from their ordeal is a delusion of the mind.
The Osage refer to May as the time of the flower-killing moon, and Grann’s account begins in May 1921 when Mollie Burkhart is worrying about the disappearance of her sister, Anna.
Oklahoma was anxious to gain statehood and needed to get this agreement in place first, so they were happy to meet the Osage request to divide the land equally among only members of the tribe.
are hereby reserved to the Osage Tribe.”They already knew there was oil there, having seen the “rainbow” slicks on some water, and each member now had a “headright”, a share in the mineral rights of their “underground reservation”.Back to Mollie.
Killers of the Flower Moon: The Osage Murders and the Birth of the FBI by David Grann was a difficult book to read because of all the injustice to the Osage people and victims especially.
What a horrible stain on our history.
I wish it was a compulsory book for high school kids to read and discuss today.
I don't know but there is so much white-washing in the history books as it is.
This was a book for our reading group and I am so glad it was picked or I probably would never have picked it up.
Great book!
This is a powefrul book on murders committed on Osage people during the second decade of the 20th century. The author is an investigative journalist and does a tremendous job bringing this tragic story to the general public. I was astounded and could not put this book down...
Malfeasance toward Osage Inherent in the System Intended to Protect Them[revised/improved May 15, 2017]In the 1870s, the United States government drove the Osage nation in herds onto a small reservation in Oklahoma, situated on a relatively small tract which was chosen because its rocky terrain was particularly unsuited to agriculture and thus undesirable to sooners arriving from the East to stake land claims.Forty years later, after the discovery of vast reserves of oil below this barren land, Osage members were among the country's richest, unaware the only compensation for their tribe losing its land--black gold--would, by 1925, turn fatal for at least eighteen tribal members and three non-members who apparently got too close to the fire.In 1921, three of the Osage were found murdered, each under mysterious circumstances.
A good book friend of mine says that the best nonfiction reads like fiction, and Killers of the Flower Moon is that.
I soak up any books seeped in culture.
While there were some difficult topics, and the book is centered around the large number of murders of the Osage who were killed due to greed, there was also good triumphing over evil and truly beautiful, selfless people I enjoyed reading about, like Tom White and Mollie Burkhart.
I don't know if I'll ever forget this book or what happened to the Osage.
“History is a merciless judge. It lays bare our tragic blunders and foolish missteps and exposes our most intimate secrets, wielding the power of hindsight like an arrogant detective who seems to know the end of the mystery from the outset.”- David Grann, Killers of the Flower Moon David Grann’s Killers of the Flower Moon is an irresistible combination: part history, part true crime, and part journalistic memoir, it sheds a bright light on a dark corner of our nation’s history, one that has been
It lays bare our tragic blunders and foolish missteps and exposes our most intimate secrets, wielding the power of hindsight like an arrogant detective who seems to know the end of the mystery from the outset.”-	David Grann, Killers of the Flower Moon David Grann’s Killers of the Flower Moon is an irresistible combination: part history, part true crime, and part journalistic memoir, it sheds a bright light on a dark corner of our nation’s history, one that has been mostly forgotten with time.
Parallel to the Osage murders, Grann also tells the story of the rise of the Bureau of Investigation (now the FBI) under its demanding and particular leader, J.
It's been a few months since a book truly grabbed me, both heart and mind, and wouldn't let me go.
David Grann's latest is a compelling argument that he is the finest narrative non-fiction writer alive today.
The story here is unbelievable, thrilling and heartbreaking, and the reporting is first-rate, penetrating and immersive.
A moving elegy about the horrible abuses inflicted on indigenous peoples, a crackling whodunit set in the lawless frontier, a sobering examination of the corrupting influence of money and oil, and even a kind of haunting domestic thriller, KILLERS OF THE FLOWER MOON is not to be missed when it releases in April.
This is a remarkable and horrifying piece of American history that screams to be read!
It's an amazing piece of investigative reporting and very well put together.
There are so many characters it can be hard to keep track of who is who, but hang in there.
If you think the U.S. is messed up now, read this - institutional racism, greed, corruption, conspiracy....and just pure, unadulterated evil.Kudos to David Grann for this scholarly effort and bringing this piece of neglected history to light.
It brings the story and the characters to life.
Everyone should read this book.I grew up in the county next to Osage, bought the book at an indie bookstore nearby when Grann was on his tour, and have researched Oklahoma history.
To his credit, he doesn't stop there--towards the end of the book Grann finds evidence of even more Osage murders that were never identified as such and thus not prosecuted.As if a reminder were needed, this book shows how the "good old days" were bad--especially as the law was routinely subverted--and how the mineral wealth of the Osage brought its own kind of curse due to the greed and jealousy of others.As I have said in endnotes to STRIKE PRICE, there are elements of Oklahoma history--the Osage murders are one, the Tulsa riot another--that have been covered up for too long.
I tried it first in its Kindle version which includes photos of the people involved and then I moved on to the audiobook when I found myself putting it down and not wanting to pick it back up again.
The audiobook is read by three narrators and one of them, Will Patton, is one of my favorites so that definitely helped.
I've been really struggling to get through it and am instead going to continue to wait for my number to come up for the audio version via Overdrive and read it that way.
KILLERS OF THE FLOWER MOON was a book that I had heard plenty about, obviously, and when I picked it up and read the synopsis, I suppose I was no different from many others who thought: "Murdered Native Americans?
If nothing else (though there is plenty else), Grann's book will set an incredible number of atrocious wrongs right.
In a case like the Reign of Terror for the Osage Indians, this book is invaluable to all Americans.
We are doing so now, but books like KILLERS OF THE FLOWER MOON can help right out path again.
That is the truth that we need to understand the most.
What an amazing insight into The Osage Indian murders which occurred in the early 1920s in Osage county Oklahoma.
I had never heard of these murders and when I read reviews on this book by David Grann I really was keen to learn what happened to these people.
an extremely well researched and written account by David Grann, this is a book that informs and educates the reader as well as being a terrific true life crime story well worth reading.
By a complete twist of history, the Osage who were ousted from their own land during the 19th century were relocated to a part of the US that turned out to be a huge source of oil.
The first part focuses on the history of a few individual member of the Osage who were killed in the early 20th century.
And the third part is the author's own take on what was missed at the time, and how much more widespread the killings likely were.
Highly recommended to anyone interested in learning about parts of North American history that are at risk of being forgotten.
In the 1920s, when the American West still retained elements of lawlessness and secret codes of misplaced justice, in Oklahoma there were criminals hidden and their crimes unsolved, while these powerful white men profited off the Osage Indians misfortunes.
David Gramm gives a thorough, detailed and compassionate report on this terrible time in American history.
David Gramm's investigation of thousands more records led to the discovery of an even bigger story, led by greed and powered by evil.
There is a great deal to think about, upon closing the last page of this story.
*A recommendation from Library Reads New Books for April.
The newly created F.B.I. took up the case, in what became one of the organization’s first major homicide investigations.”This book surpasses any fictional murder mystery – the fact that it’s true and took place in this country in the not-too-distant past makes it even more horrifying.
The horrifying crimes, the cover-ups, the bungled investigations, and, finally, the newly created FBI’s involvement makes for riveting reading.Given the atrocities that take place all over the world, I shouldn’t be surprised at the greed, envy, prejudice, and evil that lurks in men’s hearts, but I am.
Turns out that the Osage tribe, now compressed into one area in Oklahoma, at least had savvy enough leadership to accept the terms of their confinement but to demand mineral rights below ground.Surely you've read the book blurb - oil-rich Osages were murdered right and left back in the 1920s by somebody who either had an axe to grind or theft in mind.
There were deaths from 'wasting illnesses' and unusual maladies that at the time were labeled as being from natural causes, but it turns out, we still do not know the full toll of the murders because toxins were used frequently.
The depiction of human venality here will set your hair on fire.
The Osage Indians, whose reservation happened to be on a major oil reserve, were in the 1920s set upon by an army of white grifters who murdered them for their wealth.
And the entire white institutional infrastructure in and around Osage County, Oklahoma—lawyers, bankers, judges, retailers, housewives et al.—were complicit in the killing.
The book is an object lesson in concise storytelling.
It contains nothing superfluous.
Grann has learned his lessons well from Truman Capote (In Cold Blood) and Norman Mailer (The Executioner’s Song) and has matched them exquisitely.
David Grann has come at this story from two angles.
By the time the investigation was in full swing, (keeping in mind that the Osage tribe had to basically beg and pay through the nose to get anyone to investigate or do anything at all about these murders), the FBI was officially called that and Mr. Hoover was in charge.
There is a third portion of the book, not exactly another angle, but a portion so unbelievable yet proven,(to my mind at least), to be true that it actually brought tears to my eyes.
