https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146106.The_Castafiore_Emerald
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1977 میلادیعنوان: جواهرات کاستافیوره، کتاب 21 از ماجراهای تن تن و میلو؛ نویسنده: هرژه؛ مترجم: اسمردیس؛ تهران، ونوس، 1357، در 62 صپای کاپیتان هادوک، پس از فروافتادن از یک پله، در مارلین اسپایک، به شدت آسیب دیده، او به شدت کفری شده، کاستافیوره به همراه دستیار، و متصدی خود ایرما، و آقای واگنر پیانیست خصوصی، به مارلین اسپایک می‌آیند.
او زمرد دزدی شده را، به همراه بسیاری از وسایل دیگر، در لانه ی یک زاغ، که در نزدیکی قصر لانه داشته، پیدا می‌کند… نخستین بار این ماجرای زیبا، خانوادگی، و پلیسی، با عنوان جواهرات کاستافیوره، در سال 1963 میلادی، چاپ گردیده است.
Now the above all being said though, and while much of the action presented and featured throughout the illustrated text of De Castafiore ihre Schmuck is most definitely entirely physical and at times even rather violent slap stick like humour, the author (Hergé) has also (and appreciatively) included subtle satire and pointed socio-critical jabs at cultural stereotyping (with regard to the Roma, who have not only been harassed and forced by the authorities to set up camp near the town dump, but who are later after they have been granted refuge at Marlinspike Manor, unjustly accused of having stolen Bianca Castafiore's jewels simply because they are Gypsies), as well as criticisms of the tabloid media and paparazzi (who basically descend on Captain Hadock's manor like a pack of raging lunatic locusts when it becomes common knowledge that famous opera diva Castafiore is indeed visiting).But I do have to wonder a bit if younger children reading De Castafiore ihre Schmuck (in whatever edition, whether in French, English, German, Alsatian etc.) would necessarily catch all of the included, featured cultural and societal allusions and innuendoes.
Jess, my 8-year old little girl, gives it 5 stars.Comments while reading:1. Captain Haddock is bad with kids. Why did he say “KILIKILIKILI” to that little girl and scared her off?2. What are Gypsies? Why do people in Europe don’t like them?3. I think it’s very bad to make the Gypsies stay in the rubbish dump. Captain Haddock is very good to let them camp on his land.4. How come that every time anyone call Cutts the butcher, they get Marlinspike instead? I’m glad that our phone isn’t like that.5.
Captain Haddock is bad with kids.
I think it’s very bad to make the Gypsies stay in the rubbish dump.
Captain Haddock is very good to let them camp on his land.4.
I know what insurance is.
It means that if anything that you own is broken or lost, the insurance man will give you money to buy a new one.
Anything with Iago and Captain Haddock is funny!-	Captain Haddock calling that lady “nanny goat”.-	 Castafiore calling Captain Haddock funny names because she couldn’t remember his real name.
She always calls him silly names like “Halibut”, “Hammock”, “Paddock” and “Stopcock”.-	Professor Calculus thinking that Castafiore was a painter, instead of an opera singer.

The most absurd of Herge's albums24 February 2012 This is a unique comic in all of Herge's repertoir in that it is probably the most absurd of his stories. Granted, Tintin and Alpha-Art (which is unfinished and I am unlikely to purchase it on those grounds) appears to move into a more post-modern setting (it is suggested that Alpha-Art was an adventure into the world of art, but Herge died before its completion) but in this story, basically nothing happens. In fact, the entire story seems to be
Granted, Tintin and Alpha-Art (which is unfinished and I am unlikely to purchase it on those grounds) appears to move into a more post-modern setting (it is suggested that Alpha-Art was an adventure into the world of art, but Herge died before its completion) but in this story, basically nothing happens.
Pretty much everybody in the story, with the exception of Bianca Castafiore, slips and falls on the step at one time or another.
However, it disappears nearer to the end, namely because through the story we hear Bianca Castafiore continually jumping at ghosts believing that her emerald has been stolen.
The Castafiore Emerald is what I would call a home-adventure for Tintin. It is a little different than the other tintin books as the adventure take place at one place, the Marlinspike Hall. The billions blue blistering barnacles turn into trillion blue blistering barnacles for Captain Haddock, when Bianca Castafiore pays a visit to Marlinspike. With his foot fractured, Captain Haddock nerves are through the roof. This comic is way funnier than any of the other tintin adventures. The story is pretty straight forward but what it lacks in story and suspense, it builds up in humor.
چقد سركارى و خوووب بود =)))))
One of my favourite Tin Tin books! It's probably the least exciting of all the books but its definitely the funniest. I think Herge relaxed a bit this one focusing on the interactions between the characters to drive the story instead of an actual mystery or adventure. The ending is a bit anticlimactic but it didn't spoil my enjoyment of it.
Doesn't Castafiore drive you wild? But she's so funny! :P
This scene, Professor Calculus presents his invention 'color television', is pretty iconic:
After reading Herge’s best Tintin album, Tintin in Tibet, The Castafiore Emerald feels like a letdown. It still has Herge’s signature clear line, and it does have complicated plot, setting it in Marlinspike for the entire story feels pedestrian.I prefer my Tintin globetrotting. But this would have worked better have a read it as part of the 3 album volumes I was buying before reading my first oversized album.
Es el único que se desmarca de lo habitual en los álbumes de Tintín dado que no hay viajes ni villanos.
La intención de Hergé era comprobar si conseguía mantener el vino al lector hasta el final en una historia sencilla que transcurría en el mismo lugar que se originaba.No es uno de los mejores cómics de Hergé, quizá porque estaba experimentando en otro tipo de historia tal y como comenté antes.
Siendo uno de sus últimos álbumes es una pena que no continuase ese camino para seguir probando otro tipo de historias.
Very funny but very revealing as well, this Hergé book with (finally) a strong feminine character - and with such a misogynous perspective! Why do Tintin books always have masculine characters only? I know some authors have already written about it... For the moment, I am only reading to enjoy myself, and there is no doubt that these books are full of humour, despite their misogynous perspective! LOL. Maria Carmo, Lisbon, 19 January 2015.
The first Tintin I've read to my daughter, I think she enjoyed it, getting so many pictures to look at was a big bonus for her.This is probably the funniest of the Tintin books, lots of misunderstandings, a deaf scientist, an opera singer who can't get Captain Haddock's name right and a funny parrot. Probably a good place to start for a young kid as things are really simple and the plot not too challenging to follow. Good fun and looking forward to read another story.
Bianca Castafiore and Captain Haddock is comic gold.
(Explorers on the Moon gave him his greatest artistic challenge; The Calculus Affair was the height of his skills as an artist; The Red Sea Sharks was a perfect story; and he capped all this off with the emotional study that is Tintin in Tibet)The story is well-known by now: tiring, like Captain Haddock, of adventures, Herge decided to test his own skill by doing a story in which "nothing much happens".
Herge continually teases with the idea of an adventure - there are Roma people living on the land with suspicious motives; there are shady men pursuing Castafiore; the diva herself is in fear that her emeralds will be stolen, and the actions of her entourage indicate something malevolent.
4 out of 5 stars.My brother, who is an avid Tintin fan and has been for quite a long time, recommended this novel to me after I answered a variety of questions as to what type of Tintin book I was looking for.
I told him I wanted a Tintin book with humour and mystery, and so this was the one he recommended to me.I was not disappointed.
Each of the characters were lively and unique in their own way and the art was engaging and fun.I think I will definitely read another Tintin book in the future!
In Captain Haddock, we have one of comics' greatest creations on the verge of a mental breakdown, housebound by a twisted ankle, and tormented by a psychopathic parrot and an opera singer who is the living embodiment of Sartre's famous observation.
Tintin himself is strangely subdued, which is no bad thing, content to give a nodding wink to the reader, and equally surprised when his famous sleuthing abilities are found wanting, and the real perpetrators of the crime featured in the story turn out to be something a lot more innocent...A strong supporting cast of equally amusing characters and eccentrics, lend gravitas to the claim of this being one of the best comic stories of all time...
The Castafiore Emerald is a unique instalment in the Tintin series since it focuses on a female character and takes place entirely in one location - Marlinspike. The hilarious interaction between the characters makes up for the loss of adventure and makes you laugh out loud several times. The story is rich in detail and the mystery keeps you captivated until the very end.
This one was actually fun to read! :'-D
My all time favorite Tintin adventure!
Boring... Just boring... Nothing else to add to this review.
Mil millones de rayos y centellas, Señora Castafiole!!!
A tintin adventure. That is much more relaxing than the others. It is set in their home which is a change as readers get to see the characters in their own environment rather than in some far off land
This was excellent. The interaction between all these remarkable characters, each with their own flaws, makes for a hilarious adventure, even if no big events are happening. It's also less predictable than other albums in the series.I loved Hergé mocking French press and their lack of knowledge about Belgium:"C'est à Ghand, joyau des Ardennes belges, célèbre dans le monde entier pour ses champs de tulipes ...".
The book is called the adventures of Tintin The Castafiore Emerald.
I give this book a 9.5/10The book is called the adventures of Tintin The Castafiore Emerald.
The story took place in Berlin,Germany.
The story took place in Berlin,Germany.
The conflict is that Jewels get stolen.The story made me feel happy.
The conflict is that Jewels get stolen.The story made me feel happy.
I would recommend this book to a friend because it is a good book and really interesting.
I would recommend this book to a friend because it is a good book and really interesting.
I give this book a 9.5/10
Pretty disappointing.
Gotta be my least favorite Tintin-- excluding obviously The Land of the Soviets and The Congo.
Even those were at least novel as cultural artifacts.
This one's basically a farce of increasing frustration with no catharsis.Two redeeming aspects: - Tintin's resolute faith in the Gypsy family despite the racism expressed by the Inspectors.
I appreciate that Herge made a point of skewering prejudice in these later works, especially considering the cringeworthy content of those first episodes I mentioned above.
Herge clearly doing this for the joy of experimentation, and as a nod to the dawn of the sixties.
کلا هر چه به پایان مجموعه نزدیک میشم کیفیت کار هرژه پایین میاد
Kind of an outlier in the Tintin series, taking place in a single location and focusing on comedy and farce rather than mystery or adventure. It's enjoyable enough, but compared to the globetrotting adventures of pretty much every other volume in the series, it seems pretty slight. Lots of pretty funny gags, but give me Tintin and Snowy running around and having chases on planes, trains, and/or automobiles over this any day.
One of Hergé's better attempts at humour, even if still largely slapstick. A worthy, if necessarily superficial, swipe at racial/cultural stereotyping and prejudice. Digs also at the tabloid media and paparazzi. This one has a lot going on for a children's book, but the moralising is lightly done and this is still very much a funny, adventuresome comedy-of-errors.
