https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/318335.Fatelessness
وعندما جاء الخبر بأن هناك من يصنع الحساء شعر بالحرية.اُسلوب هاديا ومقتنع بالواقع يعالج المؤلف ظروف اعتقاله في معسكرات النازية.ويوضح كيف ان الانسان يمكن ان يتأقلم مع الواقع وتحت اَي ظرف وذلك بالتقدم خطوة خطوة والاهداف تتغير حسب طبيعة المرحلة.في البداية كان الانتظار الى متى سيبقون بالغرفة.
وحتى عندما كان يعمل متى سينتهي هذا العمل مع ان هناك اعمال اخرى.فأهداف المعتقل تتغير من وقت الى اخر وحسب الواقع الذي يعيش فيه.وعند نهاية الإعتقال لم يبالغ بما يحدث في المعسكرات ورفض ان يصفها بالجحيم فهو لم يرى الجحيم حتى يقارنه بها.اُسلوب هاديء بدون اَي مبالغات في شهادته على فترة من اكثر الفترات مأساوية في تاريخ البشرية.
Fatelessness, the quasi-autobiographical novel and reworking of Kertesz's own experiences at Auschwitz and other camps during WW2 is narrated by Gyuri, an awkward, and I have to say not fully likeable 14-year-old Jewish boy from Budapest, who suffers from the usual teenage sensations of estrangement and diffidence, and is at a highly sensitive age to endure such tyranny and his response is to rationalise everything.
In places though it felt more like a holiday camp to him than one run by the Nazi regime, and apart from hunger pains, and the time he got some wounds infected whilst at Buchenwald, there was little else that made me feel the plight of his ordeal.
Now don't only think of pleasing as giving an audience what it asks for, but also think of it as giving an audience what it didn't even know it wanted to begin with.When we think about the Holocaust, unless we are aberrant or sadistic, we are unlikely to be pleased by it, in and of itself, but when we read a text (in the postmodern sense of texts, including films and art, etc.) concerning the Holocaust, if it is well-done, we will be pleased by it.
It isn't without an acute awareness of how it sounds that I claim that Imre Kertész's Fatelessness didn't please me.
After some time there, he is then sent to Buchenwald, then to a 'provincial' concentration camp near the town of Zeitz.The book is a recitation of his life.
But unlike Elie Wiesel's or Primo Levi's own excellent books, it is not an attempt to recognize the full extent of horror and atrocity here.
Instead, because they are incomprehensible, the boy Georg Koves lives as though they were ordinary.
Those who deny the atrocity talk to him about the gas chambers.
That we might not recognize any atrocity, any prejudice, any hatred, as being so horrible, and instead pass over it with unthinking indifference.
I don't think expert knowledge (eg, it's best to be toward the end of the soup line so the ladle is filled with weightier chunks of veggies and maybe some meat) will really come in handy any time soon, but this does have an important function now, the same as it always has, in that it shows how things can escalate step by step -- and all along the way human nature acclimates to whatever happens, gets used to/regulates whatever horror comes next, makes it so you become accustomed to seeing carts filled with body parts or even seeing three Latvian escapees caught and displayed as a lesson not to run, for example -- and all of it somehow doesn't blot out the ability of the sun as it sets to memorably illuminate the world, even when that bit of the world is Buchenwald.
Έχει ακόμη ένα εξαιρετικά μη-προβλέψιμο τρόπο να αντικρίζει τα γεγονότα...κάτι που σε αφοπλίζει από τις πρώτες ακόμη σελίδες...μπορεί να σε παραξενέψει, να σε προβληματίσει...ακόμη και να σε εκνευρίσει...αλλά τελικά, τι λόγο έχουμε εμείς μπροστά σε αυτές τις βιωμένες εμπειρίες;"αυτά όμως δεν ήταν παρά η δική μου εντύπωση και κατά βάθος, έτσι τουλάχιστον το φανταζόμουν, τα πράγματα δεν μπορεί να είχαν γίνει διαφορετικά." (σελ.89)Η αφήγηση κυλάει ομαλά, κυρίως ως προς την ψυχοσύνθεση του πρωταγωνιστή-αφηγητή.
This is when I found out that you could be bored even in Auschwitz - provided you were choosy. We waited and we waited, and as I come to think of it, we waited for nothing to happen. This boredom, combined with this strange waiting, was, I think, approximately what Auschwitz meant to me, but of course I am only speaking for myself. As he said, he's only speaking for himself. Here, I am speaking for myself, as is the case for any and all fiction, and even some of the non. What I speak involves m
This boredom, combined with this strange waiting, was, I think, approximately what Auschwitz meant to me, but of course I am only speaking for myself.
If those who still live on refuse the title of "victim", contemplate the multifarious of their experiences within the full range of feeling and thought, grasp their memories of such a time of their life as anyone else would, are they worth the time?
As if his effort to see the worth in living had time for that, when there were so many other things to think upon.
”Sem Destino” de Imre Kertész é um romance de leitura obrigatória sobre um dos períodos mais negros e conturbados da História Europeia e Mundial, a perseguição e assassinato de cerca de seis milhões de judeus durante a Segunda Guerra Mundial, um extermínio étnico perpetrado pela Alemanha Nazi, sob a liderança de Adolf Hitler, numa abordagem original, a de um jovem com apenas quinze anos, Köves György, que viveu e sobreviveu ao holocausto nazi, percorrendo três campo de concentração Auschwitz, Buchenwald e Zeitz.
(view spoiler)[Γιατί ακόμα κι εκεί, στις καπνοδόχους, στα διαλείμματα ανάμεσα σε όλα εκείνα τα μαρτύρια υπήρχε κάτι που έμοιαζε με ευτυχία.
Ναι, γι' αυτά, για την ευτυχία των στρατοπέδων συγκέντρωσης, θα έπρεπε να τους μιλήσω την επόμενη φορά που θα με ρωτήσουν.Μια σχετικά ανορθόδοξη οπτική του Ολοκαυτώματος και της εμπειρίας στα στρατόπεδα συγκέντρωσης, ως ένα γεγονός που πέραν της ηθικής έκπτωσης του ανθρώπου και της ρητορικής της φρίκης που το περιβάλλει αποτέλεσε έναν ιδιόμορφο αρωγό προσωπικής εξέλιξης, ένα όχημα ελευθερίας.
Ο Kertesz με διχάζει και είναι ένας συγγραφέας που με βάζει σε πειρασμό να τον κρίνω.
Ό,τι εχω διαβάσει από αυτόν είναι αυτοβιογραφικό ("Μυθιστόρημα ενός ανθρώπου δίχως πεπρωμένο" και "Καντίς για ένα αγέννητο παιδί").
Σαφώς και δεν ανταποκρίνεται στις προσδοκίες ενός αναγνώστη που διαβάζει για το Άουσβιτς.
Με προβλημάτισε και αναρωτιέμαι εάν όλα αυτά τα απάνθρωπα που έβλεπε να γίνονται γύρω του, τον άγγιξαν.
Ίσως πάλι εγώ, καθισμένη σε έναν καναπέ, να μην έχω κανένα διακαίωμα να κρίνω έναν άνθρωπο που έζησε αυτά που έζησε.Το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι αυτός ο συγγραφέας μου ασκεί μια περίεργη και ακαταμάχητη έλξη και θα ήθελα να διαβάσω όλο του το έργο.
The introductory chapters highlight how quickly and easily Gyuri accepted the plight of the local Jewish community and while it is not upbeat it is surprisingly sanguine, and perhaps even optomistic in places.
Gyuri rarely mentions his family or considers the likely fate of his fellow Jews beyond the walls of whichever labour camp he is interred in at the time.
The last chapter of the book also highlights in a startling way how those who were not subjected to time in the labour camps could never grasp the full scope of the horror.
"" Και όσο και να προσπαθούσα να ζυγίσω τα πράγματα, όση λογική, όση σύνεση, όση νηφαλιότητα κι αν προσπαθούσα να επιδείξω, δεν βοηθούσε σε τίποτα - δεν ήταν δυνατό να κλείσω τ'αυτιά μου σ' εκείνη τη μυστική φωνή, σ' εκείνη τη φωνή που κατά κάποιον τρόπο ντρεπόταν κι η ίδια για τον παραλογισμό της κι ωστόσο γινόταν όλο και επίμονη, σ' εκείνη τη φωνή μιας αμυδρής λαχτάρας: θα ήθελα να ζήσω λίγο ακόμα σε τούτο το ωραίο στρατόπεδο συγκέντρωσης.
"even in Auschwitz, it seems, it is possible to be bored—assuming one is privileged." IK was in concentration camp himself for a year at an age of around 15 and this novel is semi-autobiographical. Instead of usual double-quotation marks, the protagonist is using reported speech which seems to make the whole thing read more like a confession than a novel. Such things might seem as defects at first sight but, as in case of 'The Bell Jar', they just serve to show how difficult it is for a sufferi
What makes this book stand out is that it is not the big atrocities like ones showed in Schindler's Camp that are described in detail but rather the general experience - not only boredom but amid never ending hunger constantly stocking his consciousness, injuries, suicidal thoughts camps there were still happy moments:
Another thing, and one that I like to see in protagonists, is the kafkaesque efforts made by the fifteen-year old protagonist to understand the world around him and to speculate how it come out to be such - how they must have come up with all those ideas to make such a brilliant camp.
Başından geçen böyle bir tecrübeyi bu kadar donuk , bu kadar sıradan bir hikayeymiş gibi anlatabilmesi beni çok şaşırttı.
Üzerinde düşündükçe, başından geçenleri yıllar sonra artık olgun bir birey olarak yazıyor gibi değil de , toplama kamplarına düştüğü ve bir yıl geçirdiği 16 yaşındaki halindeki gözlemlerini, o yaşının verdiği bakış açısıyla anlatmak istediği kanısına vardım.
Yani olduğu gibi , fazladan acındırmaya gerek duymadan ve zaten çok acı olan anılarının inandırıcılık kazanması için ekstra bir çaba harcamadan.
Kırmızının kırmızı olduğuna inandırmak için kıpkırmızı demeden yani.Başlarda sıradan bir 2.
Dünya Savaşı zulmü gibi başlasa da son 10 -15 sayfalık kısmı diyebileceğimiz son bölümünden kitap ezber bozan bir duruş sergiliyor ve kitabın adını taşıyan kadersizliğin asıl suçlularını arıyor.
It was more layered than a work of witness testimony, such as Primo Levi's first book, If This Is a Man, yet less "literary" than Elie Wiesel's Night.The book left a bitter taste in my mouth, reminding me of how I felt after reading Tadeusz Borowski’s This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen or some of the essays in Jean Améry's unsettling collection, At the Mind's Limits.
Another statement by Levi comes to mind: "They [the Nazis] sewed the Star of David on me, and not only onto my clothes."But the underlying dialogue in Fatelessness is with Communism.
Ανορθόδοξο μυθιστόρημα, αιρετικό θα έλεγε κανείς. Η γραφή του Κέρτες μου άρεσε πολύ. 4,5 αστεράκια για την ακρίβεια.
For me, all works by a Nobel Prize in Literature winner should be gems. Methinks that getting this prize is the highest honor that any writer on this earth can dream about. So, since I have turned into a voracious reader, I have been sampling a work or so of the past Nobel laureates. So far, I’ve read: Sienkiewicz (1905). Hamsum (1920). Mann (1929). Hesse (1946). Faulkner (1949). Hemingway (1954). Jimenez (1956). Camus (1957). Checkhov (1958). Pasternak (1958). Neruda (1971). Bellow (1976). Cane
So, since I have turned into a voracious reader, I have been sampling a work or so of the past Nobel laureates.
I did not know that I’ve already read at least 23 books by Nobel laureates.
Boy, he sure is political.Fatelessness is about his experience in the concentration camps during Hitler’s reign.
4 stars to you Mr. Kertesz!Looking forward to reading the other books I have in my tbr by the other Nobel laureates: 
How well do you know the Nobel laureates?
كل الألم الذي يصنعه الكاتب باحتراف فذ للدرجة التي ابكاني فيها وهو يروي روايته عن المحرقة النازية لليهود يدفعني للتفكير في عدد الروايات التي تحكي بصدق معاناة الفلسطينيين وقضيتهم وهل ترجمت للغات أخرى؟لو كنا فعلنا أليست هذه بأصدق مقاومة أيها الكُتّاب العرب؟
Bagaimanapun juga, Kertesz menyatakan bahwa dia menggunakan gaya novel autobiografis, tapi karya itu sendiri bukanlah autobiografi.Kelebihan novel dari sang peraih nobel 2002 ini adalah Imre Kertesz menuliskannya dengan kewajaran, hampir tanpa emosi dan pretensi, seperti mati rasa, dari sudut pandang orang pertama, sang Aku, yaitu George Kovas.
Hampa, mati rasa, kata orang.Dari keadaan yang mengenaskan dan mengerikan itu akhirnya Kovas pun sampai pada suatu titik-balik di mana ia berkata dalam hatinya: Aku ingin sekali bisa hidup lebih lama di kamp konsentrasi yang indah ini (hlm 302)Dan setelah membaca novel ini mungkin kita bisa membayangkan: terkadang ada segaris keindahan dalam kesunyian kata-kata..(Pandasurya, Jkt, September 2009)
"Από την άλλη, όταν η μέρα εκείνη τελείωσε, ένιωσα ότι κάτι μέσα μου είχε χαθεί ανεπιστρεπτί, στο εξής νόμιζα κάθε πρωί ότι είναι το τελευταίο πρωί που θα σηκωνόμουν, σε κάθε μου βήμα νόμιζα ότι το επόμενο δεν θα το έκανα, σε κάθε μου κίνηση ότι την επόμενη δεν πρόκειται να την κατάφερνα· προς το παρόν όμως τα κατάφερνα κάθε φορά."
Anh sẽ nhận ra rằng sự thật vừa to lớn, vừa đẹp, vừa vĩ đại, đạo đức và cân đối." Phải đọc dăm ba cuốn kiểu không-gì-ngoài-sự-thật mới thấy triết lý của Márai Sándor trong Bốn mùa, trời và đất quả không gì ngoài đúng đắn.Kertész đã kể lại những trải nghiệm đầy khắc nghiệt của mình qua nhân vật György một cách trực tiếp và chi tiết nhất có thể.
Perchè l'essere di ogni uomo è in sè libero e senza destino, e l'unica cosa davvero inevitabile, per la quale si può guardare al futuro con sicurezza, e che ci verrà incontro persino nell'abisso, persino in Lager, è la felicità.Un giorno incontrerai un piccolo vecchio ebreo italiano, giovane Gyurka, che si chiama Primo Levi.
E' arrivato in fondo Gyurka, ma quello che ha trovato non è stata la pace, ma solo una tregua: mi piace pensare che quando lo incontrerai gli darai una pacca sulla spalla e gli spiegherai che anche per lui come per ogni uomo, il finale, inevitabile destino dell'essere sarà solo la felicità.
Чамайг нэгэн өдөр гэрээсээ гараад албадлагаар өдөр бүр хийдэг ажил руугаа явж байхад чинь хэзээ ч очиж байгаагүй харь нутаг руу, хэнийг нь ч танихгүй мянга мянган хүний хамт ачаа бараа мэт л аваад явна.
Ингээд л ажил хийхээр очсон тэрхүү газар амьдралын төгсгөл, үхэж байж л мултарч болох тамын хорих лагерь ээлжит оршин суугчдаа хүлээн чамайг ч бас "ёслол төгөлдөр" угтан авна...
номонд дүрсэлснээр бол герман цэргүүд үнэнхүү сайхан эрс байжхуй) 2002 онд Нобелийн шагнал хүртсэн энэ романаас хүний амьд явах, амьдрах хүсэл хэзээ ч унтаршгүй, түүнийг хэн ч хязгаарлаж, хясаж үл болохыг ойлгоно.
The protagonist (George Koves) spends a mere three days in Auschwitz, which he recalled as rather pleasant, before being forwarded to work camps at Buchenwald and Zeitz.
I am not sure George Koves ever recovered from his shock at being grabbed, and he spends all of his time trying to rationalize the senseless acts he saw around him while he was incarcerated.
I found the book became confusing in synchronization with George himself as he was ground down by back-breaking work and the hatred he faced continuously.
Perhaps this book is better in Hungarian, and could be better translated to English?
Da la sensación de que las muertes, el hambre, el cansancio y el destrozo psíquico ocurren sin separación de horas, como una especie de amalgama de terror que se junta consigo misma hasta hacer desvanecer toda concepción de cronología.
El protagonista describe su día a día en el infierno nazi como una acumulación de momentos ráfaga por los que se desliza sin libertad ni responsabilidad.
De alguna forma, Kertész se niega a disolver su concepción en la de los demás, no acepta la intromisión de lo colectivo en su experiencia individual.

Estremecedor es el momento en que él y sus compañeros llegan a Auschwitz, ven los presos, piensan que estos son criminales que han sido encarcelados por haber cometido un crimen, y ni sospechan que es el destino que a ellos les espera (si tienen la suerte de esquivar las cámaras de gas).
También es inquietante, pero comprensible, la forma en que el narrador acepta lo que va ocurriendo, los hechos atroces, como si fuera lo más natural del mundo.
También son de lo más bonitos y emotivos los momentos de camaradería entre los personajes y los gestos de bondad desinteresada que pueden tener unos con otros.
We – human beings – haven’t changed since large crowds gathered to watch public hangings, we just get our kicks in more subtle ways these days.I think that this attraction to violence and suffering accounts for why many people appear to find Imre Kertesz’s Fateless [or Fatelessness, in another translation] boring or disappointing.
Yet the book lacks these things, in large part, and therefore it is, I believe, for a certain kind of reader, a huge let-down.For me, however, Fateless is one of the most extraordinary books I have ever read.
gostaria muito de ter gostado muito deste livro.
ponto prévio 2.
não sei que sou eu que me torno mais exigente à medida que cresço enquanto leitor se sou só parvo por ter uma opinião dissonante da chusma.
em todo o caso cá vai...comece por se fazer justiça: a escrita de Kertész é boa.
Kertész conta uma história que até começa por ser interessante, mas depois, com excepção do último capítulo, pouco parece ter a oferecer pois quase nada diz de verdadeiramente relevante ao leitor.
as últimas páginas são do que de melhor encontrei no livro e justificam a nota atribuída.
Do you want all this horror and all my previous steps to lose their meaning entirely?
That is,'and I stopped to take a breath,'that is, we ourselves are fate.' I recognized this all of a sudden and with such clarity that I had never seen before."which, in the other translation, reads like this:"...and talk I did, albeit possibly to no avail and even a little incoherently.
I took the steps, on one else, and I declared that I had been true to my given fate throughout.
Why did they not wish to acknowledge that if there is such a thing as fate, then freedom is not possible?
