https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/151786.A_White_Bird_Flying
Not to mention the perfectly wonderful humour and beauty of her prose.I’ve only run into three people in my life who have heard of Aldrich: two casual friends who had to read A Lantern in Her Hand and my grandmother, of all people.
The two friends had not liked A Lantern… (it was too “depressing,” I believe they said), so in that instance Bess’s obscurity helped me not at all; but it was surprising and pleasing to learn my grandmother had an affection for Aldrich which I wasn’t aware of.A White Bird Flying is my favourite Aldrich novel.
A love letter to this book, to Laura Deal, and above all, to Bess Streeter Aldrich.
Upon finishing this book, I couldn't help but smile at the myriad of post-it notes sticking out of the pages like little flags, each marking a quote that spoke to me.
This particular quote really struck me:“The whole period seemed to come alive to her sensitive imagination,--the people of the times, substantial and courageous, walked and talked with her.
She wished she could hold to her heart the fleeting sensation until she could get pencil and paper.
She wished she could catch it and hold it between the covers of a book.” And that's exactly what Bess Streeter Aldrich has accomplished.A book about home, love, life, choices, and the legacy of family and of lives lived before.
When a book chokes you up, makes you laugh out loud, and you want to yell at the characters, you know it's an engaging, well-written book. This was one of those. I loved the emotional development the main character experienced through the course of the book. And, as always, I love how this particular author is such a champion for motherhood and marriage.
May or may not have felt the urge to cry because this was pretty beautiful. Granted it was predictable, but it added so much life to the predictability that I didn't care. And on the humor scale, 10/10 would recommend.
By the time their grandchildren reach maturity, their opportunities look very much more like what we have today...questions of career, education, culture, social status, and money.Bess Streeter Aldrich uses this book to stand up for the value of hard work and family.It has some amusing lines, too, and some great bits of descriptive writing.
You'd write, and I'd sharpen your pencils."I've read the preceding book in this set once or twice, and it is certainly helpful for getting to know the background of the families, but I like A White Bird Flying as a standalone.
I love, love, love this book. I first read it as a teenager, shortly after reading "A Lantern In Her Hand," which chronologically speaking, happens first. I fell in love with the Reinmuellers and the Deals as I read about their hard work and sacrifice over many years in Nebraska. I do recommend reading "Lantern" first. Aldrich is a much overlooked author who was wonderfully talented. Her writing is lyrical and descriptive and just plain beautiful. There are lines from her books that will stay with me forever. Read this book!
Lilacway added A Lantern in Her Hand, and while I can't remember if I did manage to track that one down and read it, I have read and loved this, its sequel about Abbie's granddaughter Laura.
It's really a moving story, if completely old-fashioned, about a young girl growing up on the prairie, going to college, getting married, etc.
I really like Laura Deal, and like LMM's Valancy, she is a character that I completely identify with.
Whenever I'm stressed out too much, this is a book I return to.
It's so quiet and calm that I start to feel the same.
This is a sequel to A Lantern in Her Hands and what I really liked is the granddaughter absorbed the teachings and character of her grandmother. Though her grandmother gave her direction and an example of values to live by, Laura (her granddaughter) had to find her own way and understand herself. I love how sincerity and solid nature of Laura. At the end Laura realizes that the things that matter to her most cannot be bought with money.
Sequel to A Lantern in Her Hand, and every bit as good! Abbie’s granddaughter Laura, although living in another era, finds that times may change, but life’s great purposes remain the same. From the dust jacket: “Should a woman’s ambition to ‘do something in the world’ mean more to her than marriage and home life?” Together, A White Bird Flying and A Lantern in Her Hand are a powerful antidote to today’s feminism. This one has also been reprinted and is not too hard to find.
I just reread this again after reading "A Lantern in Her Hand" I love it more now that I'm older, I read it last in high school but hadn't read the preceding book that went with it since it wasn't in our library. I love the story of Oscar the best and how it brings closure to the whole pioneer saga, it and the rest whole story is beautiful. This book along with the other one makes me look at my Grandparents and Great-grandparents in another light, love them more and be grateful for them.
This book was a gift to me when I was about 9 or 10, and I remember loving it, and crying a LOT while reading it. Probably one of my first experiences feeling so sad about a book, and yet loving it at the same time...
LOVED this! Starting out it wasn't as good as Lantern in her Hand, but by the end it was fantastic! Loved the themes and it wasn't as predictable as I thought it would be.
Not my favorite. One of my favorite books when I was a kid was "A Lantern In Her Hand" but this was not much like it.
I read this book for Library bingo because it was published in 1931. I love a long detailed story. And it turned out to be a bit of an emotional cliff hanger. The characters and the dynamic between them was very real. It was one of the sweetest last chapters I have read in a very long time. Not much has changed in 90 years when a woman has to choose between a career and family or creativity and love. This was contemplative with a rewarding end.
I think it was about 10 pages later when things picked up, and I couldn't stop reading after that.
I even contemplated giving it 4 stars for a while because of the beginning, but the further the book went on the more beautiful.And the ending (I mean especially the last few pages) - perfect.This is the story of Laura Deal.
Laura is giving some of her reasons against marriage to Allen and mentions she "can't think of anything more prosaic than settling down here .
I loved this book just as much as A Lantern in Her Hand.
I love to read about historical Nebraska; the area and points of interest are so familiar.
I hadn't discovered Willa Cather at this point and I fell in love with Bess Streeter Aldrich's depiction of the area I had recently moved to after living in San Diego for 20 years.
I really need to go back and re-read these two novels, although I wonder if they'll still have the same impact on me now that I've been in Nebraska for almost 25 years!
The book begins with the death of Abbie Deal, the subject of the author's book, A Lantern In Her Hand, and the grandmother of the subject of this book, Laura.
Laura feels that her grandmother is the only person who ever really understood her.
Abbie had wanted to be a writer, but her life was too full to have time for writing.
This book takes place around the time of the Great Depression.
It takes place in eastern Nebraska.
This book is very much about life in Nebraska and a young girl who grows up there.

I grew up just a few miles from where Bess Streeter Aldrich lived and I thought I'd read all her books years ago, but I think I missed this one.This sequel to A Lantern in Her Hand is a quaint, old-fashioned story about a girl, Laura Deal, weighing the options of career and marriage.
She longs to be a writer and accomplish some of the things her grandmother, Abbie Deal (of Lantern in Her Hand) wasn't able to do.
It is my understanding that in real life Bess Streeter Aldrich "saved" the bank of Elmwood and its depositors.
I like Aldrich a lot.
I think A Lantern in Her Hand is one of the best, if not the best, books about the life of a pioneer woman.
A White Bird Flying continues the story by focusing on the young granddaughter in ALHH who was so close to Abby Deal.
it is a well written book.
Dramatic tension is caused by having to choose between a career and marriage --obviously the book shows its age with respect to that conflict.
Didn't remember about the job/marriage dichotomy.
However I still recommend it, especially for those who like the first book.
(Thanks for the tip, Cara!) I loved being able to follow up on Abbie Deal's family, but I have to say that I just didn't relate to Laura as well.
Dare I say that I also felt bludgeoned by the Old Oscar pioneer founders of Nebraska and the good life stories?
Perhaps, I am just nostalgic for the Colorado "good life" after not seeing the sun for so long in Nebraska :) I had read the ending before in the Short Works book (she used the same idea for a short story) so Aldrich made good use of that silver dollar!
I did not like it, but then I didn't really expect to, since while 'A Lantern in Her Hand' is one of my favorite books ever, I never read the second half of the book when I read it because her kids are all so lame.
(view spoiler)[ And I can NOT sympathize with women who have a fantastic man in love with them and they want to turn them down for their careers ESPECIALLY when that career is writing and could so easily be done married as well as single (you idiot girl!).
(hide spoiler)] Plus the whole thing seemed not to really focus on Laura, but on the 'time passing' theme, so I didn't feel like I knew her anyway.
This was a re-read of a book my grandmother loved.
As a teen I loved it too.
But unlike other re-reads of teen favorites I found myself still enjoying this one.
She makes me reflect on my own rich pioneer heritage and be thankful for the road they blazed before me.
She makes be thankful to have the blessings of family in this life and want to make the most of my moments now.
So..while the story is somewhat archaic and predictable I enjoyed the journey and some of the poetry within.
And I think I would read it again.
I've read and really enjoyed some of Bess Streeter Aldrich's books in the past, including A Lantern in Her Hand, which this book is a sequel to. With that said, I found A White Bird Flying to be a chore to get through. Sappy, over the top sentiment, predictable and repetitive descriptions of both landscape and characters. I really had to start skimming over some sections or I don't think I would have ever been able to finish it.
This is such an interesting novel, at least in part because it is of its time. I think there is less written that speaks to the first couple of generations that followed the pioneers and how they made their way in the world. But, what I loved about this is the way Aldrich describes Nebraska. There is an especially cool scene where a storm lights up skies and trees, and she places a key event at Arbor Day Farm. We had to go and visit to see it in person after that.
This story is complete in itself, but it deals with the descendents of Abbie Deal from the author's well-known A Lantern in Her Hand. Bess Streeter Aldrich was a college classmate of my grandmother's, and I have tried to read all of her books and have enjoyed them very much. I had not read this book which I picked up at a book sale for almost nothing. This book keeps one's attention from beginning to end and is well-written. The viewpoint of Laura is interesting and engaging.
I have been in bed out of commission for a few days and got to read MUCH more than usual. This was one of the two books that I polished off. I really enjoyed Lantern in Her Hand and thought to try more of her works. This book did not disappoint. I wasn't quite sure at first, thought it was kind of sappy but the tears were flowing in the end. Im glad that I bought a copy as it will surely get passed around the house.
The story starts out slow, but once I got to the main conflict I couldn't put it down. (This is a sequel to A Lantern in Her Hand, and both books are highly recommended!) 4 1/2 stars.
3 1/2 starsThis is the coming of age story of Laura Deal, a young woman with her heart set on a career in writing - and NOT one on marriage and family. The writing is simple prose, but sweet in its simplicity. I love Laura's relationship with her grandmother, and plan on having my own grandmother read this book.
One of my favorite books when I was young was A Lantern in Her Hand, which my American grandma gave me when I was 11. I only recently learned there was a sequel and jumped to read it. It is at once a love letter to pioneer and post-pioneer Nebraska and a story of a young woman who grapples with the question of career versus love. And reading it made me miss my grandma very much.
