https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15309.The_Laughing_Corpse
I would consider someone like Lisbeth Salander an example of a woman who is painful to read about because her life is totally sacrifice to the mere survival of women.
That is disgusting that anyone would want to have sex with a woman in a wheelchair!” No, you are disgusting, Anita Blake.This is totally just a personal pet peeve, but it also really, really annoyed me the way Hamilton imagined being hardened to crime.
Anita refused an got plenty of troubles as a result.
During her investigation she managed to piss off a powerful voodoo priestess and got plenty of troubles as a result.
The stupid parts of the plot are gone - almost.
Name me any day and I will find more sickening stuff in real life than a description of a bloody toddler parts scattered around.We - humans - suck and can be very sick.
This might be a good thing as vampire suck - both literally and figuratively.
By the way in case anybody doubt Anita Blake is an ancestor of Kate Daniels: one scene in this book has strong resemblance of that in Magic Binds.
When I read the Kate Daniels series, I would see a lot of reviews that compared her to Anita Blake, and Kate would always come out on top. I could see some similarities, obviously, but I find Anita a little disappointing in how dumb she is. She really doesn't know how to shut the hell up so that someone would NOT want to kill her for a change.  "I'm going to kill you," he hissed."Take a number," I said. She'll need to buy more number machines if she keeps up this pace of pissing people off...I m
now, that's a healthy attitude!So, in this book, there are a boatload of people who want to kill Anita.
Do you want fries with that or not?"And, then she is shocked when people keep trying to kill her!
I think that Anita has so many people telling her they are going to kill her each day that she can't keep up with all of the threats.
I'm going to go on to the next book to see how many people try to kill Anita in that one.
Our Anita Blake marathon continues with the second installment in the series.One of the key things while reading this series is to remind myself of it being the product of its time, it makes it easier to forgive the overused, familiar elements and go with the flow.
It was an easy, fast read albeit not consistent with its flow and pace, which is most likely due to writing that still continues to be shockingly unedited, and just not very good with its repetitiousness.I am still unsure of what to make out of Anita Blake as a character.
There was something about Hamilton's first, then second book that irritated the hell out of me, but I couldn't quite figure it out.
Then one day I saw a picture of her on the book and I understood what it was.
It annoys me when authors make themselves the hero/ine of their books, and then just change the name and the environment to make it fantasy fiction.
What flaws she does have are laughable - like I care that she *almost* gave in to Jean the vampire's advances despite her no-sex-til-marriage vow.Maybe subsequent books get better.
“Oh nono please ..” And reading as quickly as possible to find out if what I was dreading would be true.Anita is confronted by an old voo doo priestess that scares the living hell out of anyone nearby, and even those whom feel they are unreachable.
Death can still come crawling through your windows.The twists of betrayal, and sudden insights of a friend that leaves Anita unsure if the friendship will continue.
I wanted so much more than what the ending offered me.
Kudos to the author, I’m 1/4 into the next book I recommend this read to anyone interested in bloody and gruesome books that are centered around the paranormal and the slight progression of possible romantic relationships.
I like these books.
I like the MC, Anita.
But with that said, the author has a way with words in her descriptive strokes.
Sometimes it has me rolling my eyes, but mostly she does a great job of taking descriptions and adding layers to them.
That is what I like the most.
This is the 3rd book I've read by her and I have thought this same thing about each of them.So far, the entertainment value of these are fairly high, but I have to say the same thing about the negative reviews.
They are a riot to read.
Burt, Anita's boss, was bland, Gainer was pretty meh, Dominga was interesting (but I didn't like what happened to her), and Wheelchair Wanda wasn't too bad.
In fact, Anita spent so much time on the Gainer plot that a total of THREE families were brutally murdered.
Of course, her own life is important, but Anita spent WAY more time about something she WASN'T getting paid for.
Dominga had given her word she hadn’t raised the killer zombie…she had something to do with the killer zombie…she’d raised the beast or why kill me the night after I talked to her?...She wouldn't just raise a killer zombie and let it loose.""He stood in front of me, hands at his sides.
I have read all of the Anita Blake series and The Laughing Corpse is the second book in the series. Again it is really great entertainment. I enjoy all the characters and the plot. Anita comes into more powers by being Jean Claude's human servant so you get to see that and also her zombie-raising skills come into play. The second book is definitely one of the good ones.
I forgot how much I loved the beginning of this series. More action and blood and guts and -JEAN-CLAUDE.
I mean the Zombies in this were freakin scary if Anita wasn't controlling them!
wow on this Authors imagination....Also it made me really feel like I knew and respected side characters like Dolfe, Jean Claude swoon...
when Anita constantly mentions his stillness comparing it to a snake (makes me think of them watching you before they strike.....) Hamilton paints such a vivid picture about every character (sometimes bone chilling)I am officially scared but its the first book in a long time to do that.....
so I'm gonna read some fluff before starting book 3...
I would love to see this on TV (it would be terribly gory, even worse that The Walking Dead, I'd have to skip those parts, I have a weak stomach).Anita Blake is once again in trouble, this time she has to deal with some kind of meat-eating zombie, she doesn't really know what it is, and she fears it may be the worst thing she will ever have to catch.
She also gets another job proposal, this time from a very dangerous man called Harold Gaynor, who offers her a million dollars to raise a 300-year-old corpse.
Doing a re-read after years away from the series, and after quitting the series about 10 books in. Interested to see if I want to keep going this time, now that I know that things fall apart a little romance-wise later on, rather than going in with hopes of happy endings!
“I could teach you so much, Anita, so very much.”  - Señora Salvador  Another bad ass Anita Blake story. A mad flesh eating zombie is ravaging perfectly good suburbanites during the summer heatwave. Anita must work with the police to find out who is driving the zombie and for what possible motive. Some of my casting:The ending was EPIC. “I am a necromancer. The dead are my specialty.”   - Anita Blake
I shouldn't have waited so long to read this book after finishing book 1. I had a difficult time remembering all the secondary characters. But luckily despite that I still enjoyed this book. What I did not enjoy was all the sound effects in the audiobook. They were loud and annoying and distracted from the narration. I could barely hear the narrator! The only thing the sound effects managed to do was give me a headache. If the narrator is good enough they can build suspense with just a change in their voice. No sound effects needed.
Note: this book is on my gruesome-horror shelf.
Certain scene descriptions were disgusting and consequently depressing.So far, this series is not what I expected.
I enjoyed this book more than the first, largely due to being more familiar with Hamilton's world and characters, something which is typical of long running series.
The first books are usually the weakest.
I desperately want to jump into book 3 but am pacing myself.
Sadly, I know some of what happens in later books yet I think I have a good many to go before I encounter those which most reviewers claim started the downward trend into poor plotting and gratuitious sex.
***2017 Summer Lovin' Reading List*** How can I not adore a book that has a character bearing my name? May I say that I did love Wheelchair Wanda, the prostitute with a heart of gold? Even better, she lives while men die around her like flies!But the book is about Anita, who is just a bit rougher and tougher that your average Urban Fantasy heroine. Because she is an animator/nercromancer, there are also far more zombies than I'm used to in the genre. How is it that I can lurve the vampires and
Even better, she lives while men die around her like flies!But the book is about Anita, who is just a bit rougher and tougher that your average Urban Fantasy heroine.
Because she is an animator/nercromancer, there are also far more zombies than I'm used to in the genre.
How is it that I can lurve the vampires and feel so ambivalent about the zombies?
I just don't understand their appeal.Nevertheless, Anita experiences what so many (if not all) UF heroines do--they suddenly find hidden depths to their powers which solves their current dilemma, but opens a whole can of worms, to be explored in further volumes.
not as good as the first one couldn't get into it
Finallerin yarın olması bende her zaman ki gibi blogla uğraşma içgüdülerini tetikledi ve işte ben, kendimi Anita'nın 2.
(İnsan 20 olunca 1 yılın değeri bile çok büyük oluyor.) Sonradan Gülen Ceset'in bir geçiş kitabı olduğunu ve asla favori kitabım olamayacağını anladım.
Hayır, Anita bildiğin (en azından o zamanlar) "evlenmeden sevişmem!" diyen bir kadın.Benim sevgili Cellat'ım...Bunu da Goodreads'ta yazmışım.Bu kitap serinin diğer kitaplarına göre daha geride kalmış gibi hissediyorum.
Her ne kadar okuduğum ilk Anita kitabı olsada, Anitanın orjinal karakterini koruduğu bu kitap zayıf, olaylar bakımından yetersiz, ilişkiler tarafından da boş bir kitap.
The Laughing Corpse digs deeper into Blake’s world, shows off more of Jean-Claude, Ronnie, and the polices characters.As always, Anita is surrounded by problems with no immediate, easy solution in sight.
She’s dark, creepy, and as evil as they come – her showdowns with Anita were brilliant.Jean-Claude still isn’t shown much, which is a shame.
This time around Jean-Claude wants something else from Anita (I won’t give away spoilers) and seeing her run from it is great fun.Hamilton consistently writes with a light, humorous hand while dealing with dark, depressing material.
The Laughing Corpse is one of my least favorite AB books and I really don't know why.
It's interesting, doesn't have all the sex craziness, no relationship drama but still...
Anita is, if nothing else, supposed to be the good guy(she says so herself many times) but in order to get what she wants from Wanda she lets JC terrify the poor woman.
I mean good guys are you know...good.
Black and white are nice colours to have as well.Generally the book was good enough.
I liked the Seniora a lot for a bad guy.
He was greedy(too greedy) not crazy.
Ještě lepší než první díl! Hrozně jsem se u knihy nasmála, ale nechyběli ani okamžiky kdy mě pálily oči od slz. Naprosto geniální kniha! Ode mne dostává zasloužený plný počet hvězdiček! :) Má pravdu. Co si sakra kdo myslí, že tu chci dělat? Ukrást tělo? Kdybych chtěla, celou tuhle budovu vyprázdním a se všemi mrtvolami si zahraju „všichni jdeme sborem“.
I found I was liking this a little more than the first one. I liked the first one, but with the second, I started liking Anita more, same with some of the other characters. She was likable so that was nice. Plus the plot was the main focus. Only two books in, but I'm liking the series. So far anyway. Hopefully the rest of the series is just as good.
Now she is having altercations with the Voodoo Queen of St. Louis while trying to avoid a rich man who is willing to make any sacrifice to raise a zombie.This was a reread for me, so I remembered the basics of the story, but it was still enjoyable.
Anita Blake is still a tough as nails female who is clinging to her soul with all that she has, but it is only a matter of time until she falls for the Master Vampire, Jean Claude.
This book was so awesome! Loved being in this world again, digging deeper, and I can't wait to read more!
Gülen Ceset'i, serinin ilk kitabı Suçlu Zevkler'e göre çok daha iyi buldum.
Gülen Ceset ise biraz daha ürkütücü bir kitap çünkü çok fazla zombilerle ve cesetlerle karşılaşıyorsunuz.
Bazı bölümlerde miğdem bulanmadı değil, ama yine de zevkle okudum diyebilirim.Sevdiğim çok şey var kitap ile ilgili.
Anita'nın ölümle burun buruna geldiği anlarda bile bu özelliğini kaybetmemesi gerçekten övgüye değer.Sevdiğim bir başka şey, Jean Claude oldu.
Anita ile olan ilişkisini hala tam olarak anlayamadım ama daha önce JC tarafından 2 kere ısırıldığı için Anita, onun insan hizmetkarı konumunda.
Anita güçlü bir kadın ve bu da JC'nin oldukça hoşuna gidiyor olsa gerek.Genel olarak toparlarsak keyifle okuduğum bir kitap oldu.
The Laughing Corpse is book #2 and focuses almost completely on Anita's zombie raising duties and her job helping the police on Spook Squad.
That's all I'm sayin'.In this book, Anita is called in to help with a murder investigation.
While investigating the case Anita is being pressured to raise a long dead zombie for a million or so bucks.
Jean-Claude makes a few appearances and attempts to seduce her with his other-worldly eyes and puffy shirts but this Anita still kills vamps and doesn't date them.
Anita has quite a few girlfriends, sidekicks and co-workers who disappear in the later books.
This was far worse than the first mediocre book in this series, and the only redeeming factor was the last third.
The beginning was so boring, in fact, that it couldn't hold my interest long enough for me to read more than a few pages at a time.I only hope that this series starts looking up, because my brother bought the first eight or so books, and it feels like such a terrible waste not to read them, since he never did.Slow paced, dumb, and quite lacking in motives where most of the characters are concerned, I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone with a lack of patience.
I know a lot of people love the Anita Blake series, but I don't think I'll be one of them.
I understand that later on in the series she turns rather slutty, and I'm thinking I might just skip ahead to those books, if I read any more at all, just because that would at least be entertaining.
Children are usually off limits in these kinds of books.
I'm glad I didn't order the next book at the same time I ordered this one or I'd feel compelled to read it.
I think I'll just move on.
Well now color me impressed....I had a real hard time with the first book but after I got through it and the characters started taking a life of their own I was real happy with this one.
I love the story that blake is giving us and I want more of this world.
I love how there is character progression and you find the vamp has feelings.
I like that Anita is getting thrust into this world and she is in it like a fish to water.
Anita is an interesting character.
I love the fact that Jean-Clud wants Anita, she fights it but I think she wants him too.
