https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6713028-border-town
I was particularly interested in reading this account of peasant life in China before the revolution, because I wanted to make a comparison to Pearl Buck's Good Earth.
I found them so vastly different that they might have been written about completely different peoples and times.It was difficult for me to see why this novel would have been banned by the Communist government that took over China.
Still, an interesting look at what a Chinese writer believed the peasant class was like before the country endured the upheaval of the revolution.
It’s the beautiful souls and humanity touched me dearly.
His sensitivity towards beauty and humanity is doubtless and his highly lyrical writing style is truly an artistic expression.
In fact, I've always seen Shen as an artist and he truly is.
Though Shen is portraying an idealized and if not an idyllic world, because it's so quiet and plain, it makes me feel quite realistic.
From Shen's perspective, life is fragile and intangible because of its mutable nature and the ending reveals it all.
Overall I enjoy so much reading Shen's works simply because I see so much life that I deeply resonate with.
Shen is sometimes called China's Faulkner and I don't really have a problem with that comparison except that Shen is maybe actually better.
He takes a time and place and the issues inherent and deals with them probably better than anyone.But Shen is just telling us a love story, kind of.
What kind of story isn't really that important actually.
In a way, it is the perfect kind of novel, an uncomplicated perfection that I've only ever seen in writers like Meir Shalev, maybe, Knut Hamsun, maybe--comparisons are dumb, anyway.
A classic historical Chinese novel about a young girl who struggles through life. She has to decide who is more important in her life as she turns to the age of marriage. Overall, I liked this book because it focuses on life struggles on one of the lowest classes during Chinese history, where focusing on a young girl reveals a feeling of sympathy towards her and the people she loves. I recommend this book to anyone wanting to know a little bit of Chinese history, without the seriousness and gruesome descriptions found in some other books about China's history.
En annorlunda bok som inte påminner om någonting jag tidigare läst. Tyckte väldigt mycket om det poetiska språket ("ett stjärnskott rispade rymden" etc.) men också själva storyn i sig. Man fick väldigt tydliga bilder i huvudet när man läste och miljön var väldigt vackert beskriven.I övrigt tycker jag det är sorgligt att biblioteket sålde den här boken för 5 kr, för jag tror många skulle uppskatta den om de faktiskt läste den. Det är nämligen en ganska mysig bok som går fort att läsa och som man får ut mycket av!
Shen Congwen is one of pioneers of modern Chinese literature, and with Border Town - one of his most famous books, it is easy to see why. Falling under the "native soil" genre of writings, Shen describes in detail the daily lives of the villagers in a semi-fictional town in the author's home province of Hunan. A descriptively simple book, Shen has managed to paint a picture almost frozen in time, of China before the turmoil of the mid-twentieth century.
Cuicui’s tranquil river life is interrupted when two young suitors come courting and she is faced with the choice of remaining with her beloved grandfather or making a favorable match. This stunning novel, set in rural China in the days before the Communist Revolution, was banned by Mao and is now accessible in a new English translation.
I can easily fall into ruts in my reading.
When I feel myself falling into one of these ruts, I walk the shelves of my local library.
Her two suitors though aren't of her liking, she has grander notions that go beyond the two sides of the river.It's a beautiful book, one that can easily be read on a lazy afternoon.
But like so many artists and intellectuals Shen was ultimately assigned the job of toilet cleaner after the Cultural Revolution (see "A Public Space" in the links below for more information)
Shen Congwen was banned in China by the communist party at the height of the crack down on culture.
The writer himself pushes his own feelings into his work without a second thought from his constant dismissal of those who are not country folk, to how things should be which is ironic as the reason he was banned was for not having a political agenda.
边城(Border Town) is a novella by Shen Congwen, one of my favourite Chinese authors. I read in the original language. It's a beautiful and poignant story. The writing is beautiful and lyrical. The un-spoken love, the sibling/friend rivalry and the intervention of fate, as well as the description of lake/river, somehow all remind me of Immensee by Theodor Storm, although the background is totally different and Border Town is much sadder.
I don't know near enough about Chinese politics, much less of this story's era, to be able to comprehend why it would have been banned.Terrific little story told terrifically. The author (and translator?) do a great job setting the scene. Really enjoyed this read.
Stilted, dull prose. Often compared to the Good Earth, but it doesn't come close to measuring up. The story was mildly interesting, but I never developed any feelings for the characters or what they were going through.
淡淡的哀愁很動人的故事 富有鄉村情懷 洗滌人心
2.5*. Nhân dịp sắp qua thăm ngôi nhà mà tác giả từng sống nên đọc thử cuốn này. Thật sự chẳng có gì nhiều để nói. Câu chuyện đơn giản, nhân vật thuần khiết, cuộc sống thôn quê êm đềm, tĩnh mịch. Trong truyện ai cũng tốt, vậy mà dường như ai cũng đau khổ...
Again, read this for class. Wasn't as boring as the other books we've had to read. Just still not my fav topic to read.
I haven't read the original as my Chinese isn't good enough for that, but I get frustrated with Chinese translations so often because it feels like they are so often done by scholars rather than writers.
Having studied literary translation, I know how hard it is to let things from the original go, but in my humble opinion when translating literature sometimes original nuances and all layers of meaning have to be selectively sacrificed in order for the reader of the translation to get the genius of the writing in the original.
My hunch is literary scholars often sacrifice the writing in order to get nuance of meaning.
Yes, the prose is lyrical, beautiful, and fluid, but I felt the story took too long to get going.I like coming-of-age stories, and especially of girls because you don't find that as often in literature.
Luckily, her grandfather was smart enough to foresee that he had to take steps to secure his beloved granddaughter's future, because he wouldn't always be around (in fact, he was in his early 70s during the events of the novel).I like novels that have a defined ending.
Maybe it's wrong of me, but in this instance, I will absolve Shen Congwen of all of these due solely to the fact this novel was considered for the Nobel Prize for literature.
中國現代文學家李建吾在《咀華集》中極力推薦此數，更強調：「這是一首美麗的長詩⋯⋯」說真的，他說得對。沈從文的《邊城》仿佛是一首柔和的詩歌或牧歌式的調子，雕刻著一個單純、悲慘的小故事。沈從文的文筆生動細膩，並且更能清楚反映出湘西一帶的苗蠻生活，令作品中處處都氤氳著清雅的氛圍及田園風光。故事雖然單純而且並不是太長，但是故事接近尾聲時已非常感動了。最令我印象深刻的是那位老人——翠翠的爺爺。他的女兒與一位唱歌的茶峒軍人發生了曖昧關係，生了孩子翠翠，然後就因羞慚而自殺了，軍人也不知所蹤了，剩下的只有那位可憐的老人、自己的孫女及一隻黃狗。兩人就這樣過著平淡的生活。翠翠自然變成老人的掌上明珠，老人非常疼愛她，但他明白總有一天，兩人必會分離。老人希望自己的孫女能過永遠幸福，找個好丈夫，船總順順的兩個兒子就是希望。（老大走了「車路」，老二走了「馬路」，「馬路」也就是唱歌，唱軟翠翠的心，想起來就像那位茶峒軍人啊！）但是此夙望又仿佛時燃時滅，再加上各邊產生了誤會，看上去就像悲慘命運又會在老人眼前再次發生，令老人特別焦急。故事中，老人年紀雖然大，但他為人忠懇。他非常疼愛孫女，願意為孫女付出一切，而孫女又非常依賴他，。再加上，許多關於自己及船總家祕密縈繞於老人的心，但他沒有把祕密揭露給翠翠，令他心內極為煩惱、辛苦。除了翠翠以外，書中不多的角色特別認同、憐憫他。因此，翠翠的爺爺留了給我一個深刻的意象，他也就變成了我心目中其中一位遭遇悲慘命運的一位故事角色。真的很感動。我真希望次子（老二儺送）會再次回到翠翠的生活中，翠翠也就能「飛竄過懸崖半腰⋯⋯摘虎耳草」去，他爺爺的願望也就不會被辜負了。但作者就特意弄了如此的結局：「這個人也許永遠不回來了，也許『明天』回來！」結局也就是讓讀者自由思索了⋯⋯在《邊城》中，作者運用了各種意象，蘊含著不同的意義。首先，他用了「渡船」以及「碾坊」兩個對立的意象，帶出新舊文化的衝突。老二鍾情於只會繼承渡船的翠翠，可是，他的爸爸及眾人都希望他接受中寨王團總新建成的碾坊以及女兒。故事中也有多個如此的例子。可見，作者在故事中多次作出「渡船」及「碾坊」的對比，顯示大部分人的價值觀已開始物質化，而樸素的、簡陋的傳統文化、風氣也就漸漸消逝了。其實，這也可能輕微地暗示了故事的結局，要看老二是一個怎麼樣的人，他的價值觀有否被扭曲了？也有研究說，黃狗是翠翠和儺送愛情展開的線索。《邊城》是以翠翠和儺送之間的美麗而又淒婉的愛情為主​​線，在其中他們相遇、相思、相怨、相盼的每一個場景都有黃狗的影子。首先，在兩年前最初的相遇中，翠翠站在那石碼頭邊等候祖父，而此時儺送從河裡爬上岸，翠翠身邊的黃狗，彷彿警告水中人似的，汪汪地叫了幾聲，那人方注意到翠翠，可見，是沈從文巧妙地安排黃狗出現，才使得翠翠和儺送之間愛情的萌發。而在後來翠翠和儺送的對話中，儺送說：「大魚咬了，你可不要喊，」那黃狗好像明白翠翠被人欺辱了，又汪汪吠起來。翠翠便喊「狗、狗，你叫人也看人叫。」翠翠意思彷彿只在告給狗「那輕薄男子還不值得叫」，但男子聽去的卻是另外一種好意，放肆地笑著，不見了，又是因為黃狗似乎無意地犬吠中，讓儺送產生了「誤會」的好意。他們之間的愛情由此而升溫了。就這樣在黃狗無意並有意的巧妙牽線下，翠翠和儺送的第一次交鋒就深深地印入了各自的心理。又一個兩年後的端午節「蓬蓬鼓聲，掠水越山到了渡船頭那裡時，最先註意到的是那隻黃狗」黃狗先在太陽下睡著，忽然醒來便發瘋似地亂跑，過了河又回來，黃狗的這一不同尋常的舉動引起了翠翠的注意。這才引起了翠翠對兩年前端午節相遇的回想。引起了翠翠對二老的思念⋯⋯我認為，「誤會」和「歌唱」也是《邊城》中也是一個重要的元素。
Cuicui (Green Jade) leads a quiet life with her grandfather, a ferryman, transporting passengers across a small stream near a frontier town.
Since Cuicui is thirteen, she is almost ready for marriage and draws the attention of two sons of a wealthy merchant.
Although published in 1934, the book has the timeless feel of a fairy tale.
I was particularly intrigued by the fairy tale-like implications of marriage.
If a young man is choosing between the daughters of a ferryman and a miller, he is actually deciding whether he is to spend his life as a miller or a ferrymen.
The novel "Border Town" by Shen Congwen has received much critical acclaim for its very real portrayal of what rural China can or has looked like in the way of culture, and customs.
I say can look like because surely a 1 billion plus population will not be universal in its ways.
Instead I would like to point out that, while being a novel (traditionally the least valued type of literature by the Chinese), it is quite short as novels go, and is fairly quite densely packed with symbolic content.
Also, the added length Shen has to work with, he uses to build a more profound understanding of an amount of the Chinese ways.
A friend gave me this book who is from a town similar to this one in China.
This book was banned in China for 3 decades.
A lot of pieces of this story didn't make a lot of sense to me, like why the two boys were named No 1 and No 2...
Anyway it maintained my interest enough to finish it so i can ask my friend about these aspects of the story, given this is such an important Chinese literary work and illustration of their rural culture and customs.
Giving this 3 stars is generous. The story moves very slowly and the ending unsettling. The plus side is the description and beliefs of the area. I'm surprised why they banned this book in China before, as this book is not talking about the lives of ordinary people & peasants living in that time, as what Pearl S. Buck did in her book (The Good Earth).....For me this is a predictive boring love story with no end....
Beautifully written, this was a quick read. Cuicui live such a simple life and yet, her problems seem more pressing and real than any I’ve ever experienced. While the novel had very little plot, the ending was open-ended and somewhat unsatisfactory. I would assume No. 2 never returns... nonetheless, I really enjoyed the language and slight incorporation of Chinese words. Very well written, not sure exactly why it was banned, probably more because of the author and not the subject of the book.
This is a story where the story behind it is better than the actual book. It is written by one of China's greatest writers and banned during his lifetime. The actual story is simple and sweet, but there wasn't enough for me to think it was an incredible story. Maybe it lots some of it's strength in the translation?
This book was beautifully written. I has a simplicity to it but still keeps you hooked. I gave three starts because I'm a baby when it comes to sad depressing open ended endings. I guess that's also a reason to give it five but I'm upset right now haha.
I read this book for research and really enjoyed it, especially because it was so hard to predict. BUT, the ending!!!??!!! Even the person who owned the book before me wrote, "WHAT?" in the margin. :)
Very beautiful and simple story which seems to just flow lazily along before you realise how much momentum it has actually gathered. Somehow the people are secondary to the town itself, which is the real main character of the book, but that doesn't seem to lessen their tragedy.
If I could read it in Chinese, I would. I am not sure if it's got to do with the translation, but I didn't understand the complexity in the plot. Aren't they making a big deal of the (view spoiler)[ death of No. 1? And I didn't like how it ended without a conclusion. So what happened next??? (hide spoiler)]
KOBOBOOKSReviewed by The Complete Review
This book was well written. The story is about peasants living in rural China before the revolution. It tells of their simplicity and customs. I would give this book a 3 1/2 rating. Shen has been compared to Pearl Buck...for me he did not quite measure up.
