https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80566.Run
This claptrap pile of PC bullshit was built for Oprah's Book Snub.
Sainted mothers come in black and white; issues of race and grief receive a sponge-over paint job that would make Bob Ross' happy little tree's wilt and die.
Matchstick characters are globbed together with gooey dialogue that spills from their cardboard souls.
To call these things characters would imply that they had some.
beyond some over-simplified, idealized tripe weighted with lazy Christian morality and a despicable PC'ness that permeates your being like a sniff of ammonia and feels as natural as a hospital corner bed sheet cramping your big toe.Fie on this book, I say.
Fie
this was a horrendous book, painfully targeted to the oprah book club readers of the world and oh so politically-correct, with one-sided characters that can be summed up with one adjective (tip was the serious one, teddy the sweet one) and who are allowed to express contrary thoughts only once to show there may be more to them than is shown by patchett ("shut the fuck up about the coffee," as kenya thinks out of the blue, to show she is a human after all).
after reading "bel canto" slowly and being brought to tears by the ending, i was left after "run" by thinking of patchett's endings as mere devices used to explain the sacrifice we make for the people we love.
This may not be Ann Patchett's best book but it was certainly very readable and engaging.
I found the ease with which the two black brothers grew up in a white household a little unlikely but at the same time it was nice not to have to be concerned for once with that issue.
The neatness of the ending also did not reflect real life but then I thought so what?
I even stayed up late to finish it!
Four stars for giving me pleasure and for keeping me involved from the first to the last page.
I just finished reading "Run" last week.
I loved "Bel Canto", so I was excited about the new book.
I started reading it, despite being in the middle of "Musicophilia" by Oliver Sacks.
One day last week, I was telling my honey about my favorite part of "Bel Canto", which is this gorgeous scene where these people who have been hostages and trapped inside get to go outside.
This obviously doesn't describe what was gorgeous about the scene, but I will just say that it took my breath away and that it captures something about the freedom in running.
Although this was still an enjoyable read, it did not leave me with the breathless appreciation of wonder that Bel Canto did.
Run, told in the third person from the perspective of several characters takes place during a 24 hour period of time on a stormy snowy Boston night.
What Patchett did so magnificent a job of in Bel Canto was weaving the lives of disperate, diverese characters who otherwise would never have met, by means of a powerful and violent sudden event, is a formula attempted again in this novel to less success.
What happens when a poor girl with a strong resemblance to the adopted boys is thrust into their lives?This gets worse.The two kids grow up with no desire at all to know who their biological mother was and all three children are drifting about--one steals drugs in Africa, one studies fish, and the other thinks he might want to be a priest.
As the story goes on it gets less and less believable--how could a man with the power of the mayor's office not know where the biological mother was?
Not my favorite Patchett but still read worthy.
A fairly quiet story about Doyle a former Mayor of Boston, whose wife Bernadette has passed and left him to oversee their grown sons, who include free spirited Sullivan who was twelve years old when Tip and Teddy, two young black boys given up by their mother were adopted.
Doyle is the kind of father who has high hopes for his sons and tends to be a bit pushy about what their life goals should be.
Not the best review but any more will spoil it and I know others are reading this -for Feb KUYH 3.5 stars
But this good Samaritan turns out to be no stranger to Tip and Teddy, bringing us to family number two: the Mosers; led by Tennessee, who is the impoverished biological mother who gave Tip and Teddy up but has been following their lives closely while raising her daughter, Kenya in the projects a few blocks away.
Over the next twenty-four hours, while Tennessee lies in a hospital bed and the Doyles are forced to temporarily assume custody of Kenya, questions regarding family, loyalty, sacrifice and forgiveness will have to be answered.Having never read her incredibly well-received novel “Bel Canto,” this was my first experience with Ann Patchett.
(Sorry Janet!) I really don't understand how the same person who wrote Bel Canto wrote this.
As an adoptive parent, I probably took greater offense at the tired old storyline that biological parents are out there just yearning and searching for the children they gave up so many years before, but here it just bordered on completely idiotic.
It is like she took a stock list of requisite "Bostonians": under-privileged blacks (check), Catholic priest (check), uber-liberal white politician who understands the black plight far better than they do themselves (check).
I started reading, thinking it was likely to be similar to Bel Canto which I found okayish but not memorable - although I now see that I gave it four stars.
I believe this is because it's a contextual thing, our reaction depends on where your head and heart are whilst reading.
The dialogue from each of the characters thoughts is a beautiful thing, I especially enjoyed the son who feels abandoned and betrayed by life's events.
Already as I use this review to put my swirling thoughts into some semblance of sense I feel a five star rating coming.........and another read some other time.
Again, themes like the family structure, the familiarity between perfect strangers, even quasi-religious miracles are explored (there is a priest with curative powers in RUN, a magic healing spring in PATRON ST.); only BEL CANTO’s brush with politics is found in this small but effective take on race and mixed domesticity in the 2000's.
(I think that writers like Nella Larsen would approve of this: a white woman's take on the everlasting issue.)A.
Patchett is definitely a (speedy) reader's writer.
BEL CANTO is magical & way more creative; this work suffers from our previous (or are they just mine?) expectations of a modern producing author.
Bel Canto is one of my all-time favorite books; The Magician's Assistant is one of the worst books I've ever read.
I was interested enough in the story line to finish reading it in a couple of days--I wanted to see where she was going with it, and how it would end up.
Unfortunately, the characters of the two adopted black children proved problematic for me.
I struggled with how free they were of any conflict with regard to race and their place in being adopted by a white family.
It just seemed completely unrealistic for a contemporary setting--more like the possible future.
I wouldn't have picked up a book on the themes of this book left to my own devices, but this was the January book for my wonderful book club and I read all the way through, no skipping.We had a deep and fascinating discussion about the long term emotional effects of adoption on relinquishing mothers and on children who had been given up for adoption; patterns of preference within families - which parent favoured which attributes of children; different ways parents exercise control over children and the ways that children respond.Patchett has said that she likes to put groups of people together in a particular situation and then see what happens.
Working this story out took her six years and it still felt contrived.
It’s an extraordinary tale, told by someone who has a knack for letting the reader see into the mind of her characters, as well as for revealing things one at a time so that the story unfolds until we know more than the characters themselves.I’ll be retuning to the library to look for other things written by Ann Patchett.
I liked this book just fine, did I love, no, but I liked it & I am glad I read it.Ann has such a gentle way of writing, I love the flow of her words.This is a story of family, & race & fate & running-as in actual running & running from something.
( or to something)Several characters come together due to an accident during a snow storm.
& we piece together how these people all connect with one another.There was a pretty major twist in the story that I never saw coming.....Like i said- I liked the book just fine.
More of a 3.5 stars but I rounded up
The eight main characters (Bernadette, Bernard, Sullivan, Sullivan Sr., Teddy, Tip, Tennessee, and Kenya) are introduced hastily enough that one almost needs a guide to make sense of which is which, especially considering how the voices of the characters overlap and how similar the names themselves are.
The way in which she intricately weaves together the lives of her characters causes the reader to ask, "what does this mean for Tip/Bernard/Teddy/Kenya?" and to be genuinely concerned about the answer to that question.
In a single fluid sentence, she testifies Doyle’s grief after losing his wife Bernadette: “He was still expecting his wife to come down the stairs and ask him if he felt like splitting an orange.”Doyle’s beautiful wife dead and buried, Bernard is determined his adopted sons, Teddy and Tip, follow the preordained path he’d chosen after Bernadette plucked the brothers from a Bostonian housing project; he has all but given up on Sullivan, the rightful heir.Following a lecture Doyle has insisted the brothers attend, an SUV nearly careens over Tip during a blinding snowstorm.
I had a little trouble deciding whether to give this book three stars or four, but then I realized I was letting my expectations interfere.
This book was good -- really good -- and if it had been written by an unknown author there'd be no question of giving it four stars.
But instead it was written by the exquisite Ann Patchett, and was her first book after Bel Canto, an absolute masterpiece.
So, of course it suffers in comparison.
I imagine this is a common problem in art.
Patchett's novels often feel like modern-day fables, and this one is no exception.
I have to preface this review by saying that I loved Ann Patchett's Bel Canto so I may just be a big fan of her particular style of writing.
With that said, I loved this book.
The characters were interesting and the story was developed and complicated (but not annoyingly so).
I really enjoyed that most of the book takes place in a period of 24 hours; it really increases the urgency and drama of the plot.
I also respected that I couldn't predict all of the events that happened, not all of them good, but it made me want to know what was going to happen next.
"Do" being the audio book listener's lingo for "read." But I have a long commute these days and figure I might as well spend it catching up on reading I would be doing if I wasn't behind the wheel.Let me next say that I am a huge fan of Ann Patchett.
I have read all of her books and when I learned that Run was coming out I wanted to "run" right out and get it.
If you have never read any of Patchett's work before, please don't start with Run. Her other books are really wonderful and you'd be cheating yourself if you let Run keep you away from them.
In Anne Patchett’s literary world people are open to one and other in ways that we, in real life, are not.
Reading a novel by Anne Patchett, you can expect to find beautifully written prose about odd, interesting circumstances featuring characters from many walks of life.
One of the major pleasures of reading Harry Potter is that despite all Harry endures, we know there will be people around him who give him love and understanding.
This is true in Patchett’s world as well.
I apologize for not reviewing it individually and rather Patchett’s work in general.
Snowy and cold.Tip and Teddy and their father, Doyle, goes to see a lecture together.
A lady named, Tennesse, throws herself to save Tip, but ends up badly injured herself, leaving her daughter, Kenya behind.
What does Tip, Teddy, Doyle, Sullivan, Fr Sullivan, Tenesse and Kenya all have in common?I absolutely loved Ann Patchett style of writing.
Ann Patchett didn't jump too much from character to character, so it was easy to identify who and what happened at such time.
This book sucked me in from the first page. I stayed up late after a not-quite-long-enough-flight to finish reading it. The writing is smart and the premise fascinating. Just the right mix of family drama and political implications. Definitely a little far fetched at times...one too many coincidences...and one near-death hallucination I could do without to add yet another twist to this windy road. But as always, Patchett's prose is lyrical without ever being overly wordy and a delight to read!
This book was excellent. First of all I LOVE Ann Patchett. I think she is quite possibly one of the best writers of my generation, she has this amazing ability to make you totally invested in her characters. And, she is the only writer who has ever made me cry actual tears of sadness. And for those of you who know me, this is a huge feat... I never cry.This book definitely lived up to my expectations and I would highly recommend it to anyone who likes well written and moving fiction. Just read it... Do it.
I was really very happy to see that Ann Patchett had written a new novel and I just ate this one up. There's so much involved in it - family, politics.... death, religion. It takes place over 24 hours and its just amazing. The characterization is astounding, as is in most of Patchett's novels. You can really see the characters as real people. I just really loved this book. I feel like sending Patchett a letter begging her to write more. Guess I will just have to settle for reading some older novels of hers now.
The entire novel focuses on their lives before and after the accident: what it was like for the brothers as as adoptees, the circumstances that compelled the mother to give up both of her boys to adoption (and adopt a daughter of her own).
Moving into and out of the minds of every character allows the reader a perspective, and specific, important knowledge, that the subjects do not possess.
Mainly, the narrative perspective is from Tip, a young man who has been adopted into white family where Doyle is a politician.
Doyle, Teddy, and Kenya add a fantastic flavor to the rich stew of the story.However, Beverly/Tennessee emerges as the most intriguing character.
The duality of the character is worthy of further inspection.
In fact, one most important turning points within the plot is when Sullivan quotes MLK, Jr. to Teddy (256-257).
We read advanced reader's copies of this for my bookgroup (it comes out in October, I think) and it sucked. I'd go into the particluars, but my brain refuses to revisit such a bold affront to good literature.PS I don't like that one star means I didn't like it. Can't I give it, like, a big red X or something?
Wow. This isn't a perfect book (because the child protagonist & her mom are a bit too perfect), but I couldn't put it down. It's so beautifully written, & the characters' struggles engrossed me utterly. Partly because adoption has been a major theme in my family of origin, but largely because Patchett succeeds in making this fictional family matter to me.
A very good read. The prose is beautiful and the story was absorbing. Patchett has the remarkable ability to weave various narrations seamlessly. Not quite as passionate as Patchett's "Bel Canto," but still a wonderful book.
