https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5211.A_Fine_Balance
Widow Dina Dalal has lived for decades in solitude, barely making ends meet, watching the sun rise and set everyday with the same transparent indifference; college-student Maneck Kohlah has left his much-loved life and his family's little general store in the Himalayas to study air-conditioning and refrigeration in the city, a course that his father believes will equip him to deal with a world that is hell-bent on destroying nature to further technology; tailors Ishvar and Omprakash Darji, uncle and nephew, have left their village, and their traditional "untouchable" occupation of tanning animal hides to seek their fortunes in this city of dreams and earn enough money to go home and live more comfortably.
“You see, we cannot draw lines and compartments and refuse to budge beyond them. Sometimes you have to use your failures as stepping-stones to success. You have to maintain a fine balance between hope and despair.' He paused, considering what he had just said. 'Yes', he repeated. 'In the end, it's all a question of balance.’ ”  A Fine BalanceI sometimes take a moment to focus on the corner of my office. The way the two walls come together forming a line, a demarcation. I think of it as bringing
These were thrown together to house the influx of country people coming to the metropolis to try and scrounge a living doing what others don’t want to do.
He would have been sacked long ago if He were managing a corporation, the things he allowed to happen...” The two tailors Ishvar Darji and his nephew Omprakash were there when the bulldozers started knocking down homes.
Further help arrives in the form of Maneck Kohlah, a rich boy in comparison to the other people in the apartment, who contributes much needed rent while he is going to school.
Though it’s not a big deal as one is not supposed to know everything but here’s a writer of Indian origin, writing unbelievably great books about Indians and is still remain unacknowledged by a common Indian reader is densely pitiable.
Well the answer could be “May be nothing is different, all trite”, or; “It’s helluva great story, I haven’t read anything like this before”.
Rohinton has captured life through his characters, has captured India through an unfortunate time, has captured ugliness of human face and has finally captured resplendence of human soul through his mesmerizing words.READ IT !!!Here's my audio review of this book: https://soundcloud.com/readbetweenlin...
For those not brushed up on their political history, the late 1970s saw India under the rule of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi who, though largely considered one of India’s greatest prime ministers on account of her centralizing policies (the constitutionality of which, I suppose, could be debated), was certainly not among those in the author’s favor.
Mistry makes us feel like this might be an India under glass, where the characters are tiny steel balls and Mistry is controlling the flippers.This book is good, though.
This book, A Fine Balance, has nothing to do with the terrorist attacks of 9/11.
Maneck is a young college student that feels as if he has been cast aside by his parents and turned out from his relatively comfortable existence in his hometown by the mountains.
A proofreader on a train ride has a chance meeting with Maneck and makes a statement that will continuously echo in this young student’s mind, as well as the reader’s, for the duration of the novel: "You see, you cannot draw lines and compartments, and refuse to budge beyond them.
Rohinton Mistry follows four characters: two tailors, Ishvar and Omprakash; the widow, Dina Dalal, who employs them in her apartment; and the college student, Maneck, rooming with the widow.
I don't want to spoil it if you haven't read the book, but it is an action of such implicit nihilism that it is emblematic of the tone of A Fine Balance.Simply put, if this book ended on a "happy" note, if Ishvar, Om, Dina, and Maneck emerged with little in way of complaint, then their suffering would have been meaningless.
“Poor naked wretches, wheresoe’er you are,That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm,How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides,Your looped and windowed raggedness, defend youFrom seasons such as these? O, I have ta’enToo little care of this! Take physic, pomp;Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel,That thou mayst shake the superflux to themAnd show the heavens more just.”~ King Lear*** “Why did I dislike him so much, she asked herself? Where humans were concerned, the only emotion that
Indeed, the whole drama is almost Shakespearean in scope - with distinct echoes of King Lear in it - in the pride and distance of each character; in their imaginary walls, which crumple with closeness.Lear’s Storm, Writ LargerMistry is often compared to Dickens, the archetypal author of the Uncaring State.
Authors like Mistry are the modern equivalents of the quixotic hero, trying to crumple these walls, reaching across thousands of miles, through the pages of a book.Of course, we can see in figures like Nusswan those people who manage to keep the walls of fine balance erected throughout their lives - we see in them ourselves.
Definitely a five star read for me, but all of my emotions are shot to hell.
Heaven forbid!Rohinton Mistry introduces his four main characters and their individual stories one by one until they merge together sharing a cramped apartment in a world of starvation, suffering and despair.With civil unrest and demonstrations against a corrupt government on the rise, our protagonists needlessly endure despicable injustices to both body and soul just for being in the wrong place at the wrong time.While reading A FINE BALANCE, I lost count on the number of expletives I screamed inside as I encountered shock after unbelievable shock.Excellent, but draining read with absolutely wonderful secondary characters added to the mix and a story I will not forget, and......oh the ending.
Don't miss this one......Definitely worth your reading time!
Rohinton Mistry has written three whopping novels set in India, Such a Long Journey, A Fine Balance, and Family Matters, and they're all brilliant.
He doesn't have pyrotechnic prose like the DeLillos and Pynchons, he's the tortoise to their hares, he plods on with his careful beautiful pictures of the details of people's lives, the complexities and the horrors and the unnoticed pools of affection, where the money comes from and where it goes, how they get through the day and how they don't - his camera never lies.
I recommend all of these three novels without any ifs or buts.
You may be weeping at the end of them, because life is sad, but you won't mind that.
Because it wasn't an unputdownable, hold-you-in-its-thrall, page-turner, this novel took me weeks to finish.My only real issue was that I loved the writing WAY more than the actual story.And what’s not to like about Mistry’s beautifully-crafted prose? I drooled over his penmanship and revelled in his wordplay. Like Rushdie and Shakespeare, he intermingles pathos with humour.The story, though, didn’t grab me by the ears and snog me.Which is why it drops one star.
Mistry is unsparing in details of how difficult, even cruel, life is for these characters.
In detailed flashbacks, Mistry describes the pasts of the characters with such humanity that it's impossible not to identify with them in some way.This is a fast read, in part because of how beautifully drawn the characters are, and in part because you want to read on quickly to discover how the characters will handle the challenges life throws at them.
It's a disturbing read as well, because Mistry provides clear descriptions of the violence, greed, and lack of compassion each character faces.
He, like a hapless docile creature, accepts the defeat and the fly, with its flourish of invisible wings and triumphant buzzing, licked his skin as though making him know, out of pure derision, the tangibility of misery, failure, and cul-de-sac.I used ‘the man’ here as a metaphor for the poverty-stricken Indians during emergency, with their independence and free-will paralyzed by the whimsical government and its greed for power, making them glued to their hapless lives.
Immersed in a foreign culture, India, 1975, under the brutal reign of Prime Minister Indira Ghandi and her State of Emergency, the tortures of a caste system, the mass murders of a government discarding citizen rights and reaching for complete and lasting control, left me as fearful as the characters whose lives I lived.
Over time she found unexpectedly a familial love with the two tailors and a young border who lived with her in her small flat.
In the end it will open up for me, as great books do, a life with a fuller meaning.
Another hardhitting scene occurs several days later when the police and labour contractors come to round up the beggars and poor sleeping in the street.
The poor are, of course, forced into hard labour, their only pay being a meagre portion of food and shelter.
Mistry works a fine balance with these scenes: comedy and absurdity juxtopose neatly with the pathos and despair.In the end, however, I was hard pressed to give this book five stars.
It's wholly subjective, of course, and I would certainly recommend this book as a good read.
As I scramble for words to speak of this book and even manage to get hold of some. I wait till they fall from my tongue into the depths of infinite hopelessness. And someday, I  hope  these words will find me again. These words, these thoughts will help me accept the  despair that is this thing called life.
India.
Martial Law. Murder-on-instinct; survival of the fittest.
Family Planning Program going as insane as the population explosion.
A Beautification Program chasing people with bulldozers like unwanted sewerage down the isles of perfection.
Amidst it all, the two tailors Ishvar Darji, his nephew Omprakash, and the young widow, Dina Dalal, tried to survive and prosper.
A masterpiece in the historical fiction genre.An excellent companion for this book is 'A Suitable Boy' by Vikram Seth to widen the perspective on what was, and still is, happening in India.RECOMMENDED.
This book covers the stories of four characters living in India during the mid-70s during a time in which Prime Minister Indira Gandhi declares a State of Emergency and in its name, countless human rights violations were committed.
However, it was important to the overall theme of the book that you truly get inside each of the characters heads so that you fully understand the reasoning and the extent of their actions and choices.
To not give the full history on each of them would have made some of the events appear to be melodramatic and it would have been all too easy to paint certain characters as selfish or even villainous in their choices.
3 "tragedy diminished by histrionics" stars !!I know this is a good book and that Mr. Mistry is an excellent writer.
Although at times Mr. Mistry got the emotional timbre "bang on" (especially in the very moving epilogue), more often the very sad and tragic events were shrouded not only with histrionic melodrama but often really tasteless slapstick that jarred the senses and I was left feeling "are they going to start in on Bollywood singing and dancing?!?"Many of my real life friends and by the looks of it my Goodread buddies found this book to be a masterpiece.
This was life? Or a cruel joke? He no longer believed that the scales would ever balance fairly. If his pan was not empty, if there was some little sustenance in it for his days and nights, it was enough for him. This is one book that made me want to clutch the life I live, as some blanket of security, and hide within. I have never known what it is to live with such constant uncertainty. That one could be completely uprooted today, the next day, or any day. Each day of struggle, each day of bui
This is one book that made me want to clutch the life I live, as some blanket of security, and hide within.
Each day of struggle, each day of building the hopes for a future which comes undone with the incessant tugs and pulls of life.
With my fictional foray, maybe I lived a little of what Om, Ishvar, and Dina lived.
The intricate descriptions of the physicality of life, so organism like, which breathes and lives as long as it is permitted to, as long as it is of service.
In a sense, it is the disposability of human lives.
Maybe this review, about exploitation as much as anything, should have stayed on this site...http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...(I am told some sort of word minimum is necessary on this site. In order to conform....rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb rhubarb)
This is how Dina Aunty comes to live together with the son of one of her old school friends, Maneck, and with two out-of-work tailors from a small village, Ishvar and nephew Omprakash.
In what is probably the most beautiful metaphor in the novel, Dina Aunty is making a quilt from the multi-coloured patches of fabric that are left over from her sewing business.
Rohinton Mistry (born 1952) seems to be telling us that he can write sad and bleak novel about Indian in a plain simple way so that ordinary readers (like me) can appreciate how rich India is in terms of its culture, politics and complex human dilemma.
As Mistry puts it "life is a fine balance between hope and despair."It is easy to relate to this kind of story for me because I am also living in a third world country that shares the same situations like that of India.
Unlike many of the Indian novels I have read, this book focuses on the Emergency years under Indira Gandhi.
Mistry’s characters live through the terrifying campaigns of forced sterilization and “beautification” (slum destruction).
Also unlike several of the Indian novels I have read, everything in the story seems perfectly, painfully real.
While not ultimately an upper, A Fine Balance is such a complete story, such a beautiful exploration of life in a particular place and a particular time that all the tragedies cannot stop it from being a pleasure to read.
The whirlpool of corrupt and brutal politics, the inhumane caste system, ethnic hatred, sexual abuses, abject poverty and social despair gives the narrative a pulsating realism that keeps the reader well-grounded in its authenticity.Dina Dalal, a widow trying to live independently of her overbearing brother, and Maneck Kohlah, a congenial college student and her sub-tenant, are from the relatively well-off Parsi community.
It seemed so unfair: that time should render both sadness and happiness into a source of pain.”The novel was a long read (my copy has 713 pages), but worth every minute.
Mistry weaves together the stories of four main protagonists whose fates are thrown together by the upheavals of India's Emergency in 1975.
On one level the book could be seen as relentlessly bleak, in that the expectations of the protagonists are constantly dashed.
My only slight criticism is that, as in many Victorian novels, there are too many coincidences in the chance encounters, particularly those with the peripheral characters, and that the ending seems a little too neat given the chaotic and brutal events that characterise the rest of the book.
My all time favourite book, without doubt! Magnificent, Educational, Interesting, Very Sad.....The setting is India in 1975-76, when Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, defying a court order calling for her resignation, declares a state of emergency and imprisons the parliamentary opposition as well as thousands of students, teachers, trade unionists and journalists. These events, along with the government's forced sterilization campaign, serve as backdrop for an intricate tale of four ordinary people struggling to survive. This book is amazing and unputdownable!
5 stars(completely forgot to review this; too busy trying to un-depress myself).If you were following along with some of my updates for Rohinton Mistry's  A Fine Balance, you might've detected a bit of my cynicism poking through toward the end of this 600 page behmoth novel of India's woes.
I know this might annoy a few people who railed on Katherine Boo's  Behind the Beautiful Forevers but I think both that non-fiction account of the garbage slums in Mumbai and Mistry's novel  A Fine Balance are worthy shelf-mates.
What an unreliable thing is time - when I want it to fly, the hours stick at me like glue. And what a changeable thing, too. Time is the twine to tie our lives into parcels of years and months. Or a rubber band stretched to suit our fancy. Time can be a pretty ribbon in a little girl's hair. Or the lines in your face,stealing your youthful colour and your hair. But in the end, time is a noose around the neck, strangling slowly. I have just finished reading this book by an author who wrote the a
What an unreliable thing is time - when I want it to fly, the hours stick at me like glue.
You'd end up with a huge fight inside your head, because half of it would want you to renounce all the faith in humanity/system/God itself.
And the other half would want you to believe in hope/silver lining because we are so pathetically weak that we need an anchor to go on.Ultimately you'll be in a quest to find A Fine Balance to settle the thoughts and move on.This book is written around one of the most difficult times that India has faced.
I do not think I will ever forget the beggar, Shankar, a man without legs or hands, who propels himself happily along on his wheeled board; or the Beggarmaster, an exploiter and yet a protector, who walks such a fine line that it is hard to determine whether he is a menace or a blessing; or Ashfar, a Muslim who takes two Hindi untouchables into his home and teaches them his trade, making them tailors.When the story opens, India has already endured partition, splitting it into the Indian State and Pakistan:A foreigner drew a magic line on a map and called it the new border; it became a river of blood upon the earth.
What to say about such an overwhelming book.It is a masterfully written story of four people who happen to come together in the 1970s in India.
The four are: Dina, middle-aged at 30 and struggling to maintain her independence; Maneck a 17 year old student who will take a room in her apartment; and Ishvar and Om, uncle and nephew tailors seeking a living in the city so they can return as successful men to their country homes.This is a powerful and difficult book to read but also, I believe, important for those of us who have not experienced such a tenuous existence, a life with no rights, little future, no real hope, where power resides in the greedy and evil.
There are also eye-opening scenes about the caste system that still remained at the time this book was written.
