https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27091.Teaching_to_Transgress
But hooks isn’t only writing about being politically consistent; she’s calling for the annihilation of personal boundaries in order to attain some kind of “self-actualization” and heal what she perceives to be the “mind/body/spirit” split of the "wounded educator." Early in the book she states that she expects her students to take the risk of “confessing” personal narratives to their classmates in order to stay registered in her courses, but doesn't acknowledge the danger of recounting sensitive, potentially traumatic details when there’s no guarantee that they'll be received well or even stay within the walls of the classroom.
This book renewed my passion for teaching, especially in light of the constant rhetoric of adult education existing to create an efficient economic pipeline.
I found that hooks had articulated many things I felt & experienced but could not name, which proves her point about the power of theory.
Through stories and dialogue, hooks explores how the intersection of theory, identity, teaching, and injustice is experienced in postsecondary classrooms.
She offers a theoretical framework & practical skills that she has successfully used to create an engaging, inclusive classroom.
However, this does not diminish the fact that hooks offers an important critical & historic perspective in an extremely easy to read format.
"The academy is not paradise. But learning is a place where paradise can be created. The classroom, with all its limitations, remains a location of possibility. In that field of possibility we have the opportunity to labor for freedom, to demand of ourselves and our comrades, an openness of mind and heart that allows us to face reality even as we collectively imagine ways to move beyond boundaries, to transgress. This is education as the practice of freedom."
Some of the earlier essays felt too academic and jargony, but I think this book is a must-read for all teachers.
It made me change the way I think about the classroom, my role in it, and about how power works in those spaces.
She pushes back against activists who say that they have no time for theory and that they would rather just do the work.
So in order to perform the work better, we need to engage with the theory as well.
There were many passages in here that I think I will keep thinking about--not just as a teacher, but as a person who is interested in ideas.
Que livro maravilhoso.Encontrei, nas reflexões de hooks, eco das minhas paixões, motivações, temas e problemas durante o ofício de professor. Fiquei profundamente emocionada com a leitura amorosa & crítica que a autora faz da obra do Paulo Freire. Um livro para todo mundo que é, foi ou pensa em ser professor. Reflexões ensaísticas sobre educação, transgressão e a tão difícil (mas ensinável? quero crer que sim) prática da liberdade.Que saudade que esse livro me deu da sala de aula. <3
This is the first book of hooks' that I've read—a collection of stand-alone essays in which she reflects on the concept of pedagogy as liberation.
Essay collections are almost always a mixed bag and there are some in here that didn't work for me—the one that's structured as a dialogue between her and her writing pseudonym, or the rather uncomfortable one on eros in the classroom (that one needed a lot of teasing out and consideration of agape, philia, storge, and a hell of a lot more nuance and acknowledgement of the power differentials and potentials for abuse within what she's advocating).
Yet there are other essays here which are powerful and (sadly) still relevant more than twenty years after the collection was first published.
And sometimes that book goes a step further, and challenges your view of the world or your understanding of your place in it.
Three things in particular I will take from this book: (1) education as the practice of freedom is actually education as a process of self-actualization,(2) coming to critical awareness can be a painful process; there is always conflict in spaces of unlearning, and (3) with critical awareness, must come praxis, that is, action and reflection; what good is critical awareness if we do not immediately put that awareness to work in the world?This is a powerful book.
Whew.
This book is magnificent.
If you're into critical/feminist pedagogy this truly is a must read.
Unlike Pedagogy of the Oppressed, hooks writes in a way that's accessible and understandable (a point she discusses).
I wish sleeping with this under my pillow would allow her wisdom to permanently make home in my brain and in result my teaching practice.
I'm a listener by nature, but the way she spoke about race and whiteness calls even a deeper sense of listening within me.
I highlighted the hell out of this and am even tempted to make print outs of quotes and put them all over my office.
A great book that really makes you think about your role as a student (or a teacher) in the classroom. There were times that Ms. hooks' words made me uncomfortable because of the truth they carried. At times I do feel that the more I know and learn about feminism, the less I can enjoy certain things. It's not because I don't consider myself a feminist but because so many people engage in offensive, degrading behavior and expect to be rewarded for it. Unlearning sexism and racism can result in a painful process, but the rewards are plentiful.
I have been dedicated to feminist, liberatory pedagogy since I began to teach, but admittedly I never read much about it, its development, its history, and how it used by others.
My own feminist praxis informed my teaching and my commitment to create an environment which was non-hierarchal, which elevated the voices of the subjugated, and which created communities of love, respect, and critical inquiry.
hooks is convinced that both teachers and their students must work to be self-actualized, must work to be present in education in their minds, bodies, and spirits and that shows through her willingness to open herself and history up to her students and her audience.
hooks definition of transgressive teaching, and critical pedagogy for that matter, are just too different from mine.
I have nothing against hooks pedagogy, but my goal as a critical scholar is to question the systems of thought that produce differences .
There must always be an element of renewal and generation within transgressive approaches to theory and pedagogy.That being said, the last few chapters are useful to get teacher's thinking about how to transgress the assumptions behind the universal, liberal subject (which is bodiless, classless, and speaks a perfect English).
hooks deliberately transgress these assumptions by bringing the body, class, and diverse languages back into the classroom.
An important book for teachers concerned about the impact (anti-oppression or the opposite) of our teaching. Very dense so I will just share one idea that I take away:I've tended to think about anti-oppression education in terms of the content that the teacher presents and that the class learns. hooks argues that *how* you teach and the dynamics of the educational space you (help) create are just as important as content in creating a classroom where education can be...well, freedom.
I think this is my favourite hooks book so far!
The term "engaged pedagogy" suggests a model opposite of the banking teaching method where teacher and student learn together from each other.Visiting these formative texts in my thinking and development this year have been necessary tools for me in the conversations that arise during our current political climate.
Presenting challenging ideas can be, well, challenging but books like  Teaching to Transgress  helps in the process of not just providing a method but also provides encouragement.While I definitely recommend this book to educators, it's a useful tool for anyone wanting to engage thoughtfully with people of different marginalized communities.
We can teach in ways that transform consciousness, creating a climate of free expression that is the essence of a truly liberatory liberal arts education."Each essay in this collection examines ways teachers must transgress within the classroom--ultimately, how to transgress normative professorial behaviors, such as lecturing without discussion or having discussion that avoids class/gender/racial/language differences.
Because of that, I think it would make a great companion piece to a workshop or class on pedagogy, so that there could be a discussion of the principles she outlines, and then a discussion of how to implement those ideas in the classroom.I agree with much she has to say.
why didn't i read this incredible book sooner?this book gives me motivation to become a teacher. to become a very good teacher. in future, when i will reunite with my dream work i will reread this book every summer before school starts to re-energize my soul as a teacher.
This is the first book in a series by feminist scholar bell hooks on education.
Key to her thoughts on education is that critical thinking and emotional engagement are important for real learning.
I really enjoyed the chapters that focused on teaching practice, especially the ones where hooks relates her own classroom experiences.
However, there are a few chapters in the middle of the book that are on feminist academia that don't relate directly to education.
Later books in this series have a stronger focus on the topic of education, so if you didn't enjoy this book, don't give up on the series.
bell hooks forever. I’m not teaching and this was written in 1994, still this book is relevant and inspiring.
She calls the classroom a radical space of possibility, and in Teaching to Transgress, she explains how teaching is a means of enacting progressive values of diversity, inclusion, and multiculturalism.No more education as the transmission of information.Instead, real education calls for a student's active engagement in a learning process that is inclusive of a multiplicity of voices and encourages the interrogation of biases and boundaries via critical awareness.
Her experience is VALUABLE, as is her discussion of how she's dealt with the challenges that have arisen.These ideas of inclusion and critical consciousness are great, but I think this book is particularly helpful and inspiring because hooks addresses important questions like, How can one teach without reinforcing existing systems of domination (sexism, racism, classism, colonialism, etc.)?
I would put it alongside Duncan Kennedy's Legal Education and the Reproduction of Hierarchy as something that all folks who are planning on going to law school should read.So much of what bell hooks says is resonant and insightful, particularly the parts about invoking personal experience in the classroom and the fear of teachers from non-privileged groups to use non-hierarchical teaching methods.
The commentary on the relationship between white and black women also provides fundamental grounding for her critique of broader feminist theory.I plan to see if I can get some of my favorite law school teachers to read this book and discuss it with me.
I was constantly pumping my fist in the air and shouting in reverence as I read this book. She makes the art of teaching so appealing in her descriptions of the potential liberatory effects on students' minds. Beautiful. She also so eloquently and poignantly critiques current scholars (along with the US culture in general) and our so deeply ingrained racism and sexism (and other isms) even among people who consider ourselves "progressive" and "feminist."
Livro maravilhoso sobre pedagogia, feminismo, prática da liberdade. bell hooks me fez pensar em várias questões relacionadas à docência e ao meu estar no mundo. Recomendo a leitura a todxs!
Sometimes a stone classic is a stone classic for a reason.
I should have read this decades ago.
Read it, even if you're not a teacher.
Plenty to learn, think about, chew on, struggle with.
If you are a teacher: it is a deep challenge, and a worthy one.(Side note: I'm trying to think about these challenges in teaching mathematics.
It is by its nature so much more structured than certain other discourses that it can be difficult to imagine how to put some of these teaching principles into practice.
(Not all, but some.) I'm sure people have thought about this.
I am pretty convinced that bell hooks is incapable of writing a bad book. This is an excellent collection of essays on pedagogy from a black, liberationist perspective. Hooks describes how to challenge the dominant (white supremacist narrative), foster communal learning which honors students' co-participation in the learning environment, and what it means to work for change. Certainly she writes this for the academy, but I see ecclesial implications and I loved her essay where Gloria Watkins (hooks's given name) interviews bell hooks on her appreciation and critical engagement with the work of Paulo Friere.
The ideas presented here are not anything entirely new for those who frequently think about teaching and its relationship to the capitalism, the patriarchy, and whiteness. However, for those who do, bell hooks presents very compelling, validating evidence and examples. I read it just before moving into a teaching career and it is exactly what I wanted. I also think it would be extremely useful for everyone to read, to gain an understanding of exactly how far capitalism permeates our society.
I love tacking bell hooks' books because she has this seemingly casual way of explaining things I haven't yet considered.
As much as I am savoring the works of Shirley Jackson I'm also savoring the works of bell hooks.
This collection of essays concentrates on education and her work in transforming the role of the educator within the classroom.
Everyone has a voice, and we can only learn from each other if we can hear every person's story.
This demands the classroom to be a safe space where students will not be victimized or taken lightly.
"Teaching to Transgress" is a solid collection of essays from bell hooks. It wasn't exactly the book I was expecting, and as someone who isn't a teacher I'm probably not the target audience. Still, it contained some fascinating rumination on many topics, among which my favorite essays addressed: the role of class and linguistic backgrounds in the classroom, the corporeal presence of teachers and their own needs, teaching students to question what they are being taught rather than conditioning them to passively accept and regurgitate.
Prepare yourselves, I'm about to get effusive.I ordered a copy of this the minute I finished reading my library copy.
This book is incredible - timeless and immediate, hopeful and encouraging, thoughtful and candid.
hooks' admission that she never wanted to be a teacher, never saw herself as one, yet still finds joy and energy in the classroom is so encouraging to this reluctant, nervous teacher.
I hope that I can bring hooks' ideas of embodiment, openness, and whole humanity to my work.
This is a volume I will be referring to again and again.
Talk to Layney!” When hooks speaks of eros and eroticism in the classroom, and the potential for the teacher to show real care and even love for her students, I think of Howard’s unparalleled enthusiasm for ethics and his passion for justice, and how, in response to his passion, I was drawn to love the texts we read, the thinkers we studied, and the transformative ideas I know can make communities more just.
While I nevertheless maintain that Howard, despite his whiteness and maleness, provides a model of possibility for the academic instructor hooks envisions, hooks sees education as the practice of freedom as liberatory praxis that frees people of color (especially women of color) from the lower end of the socioeconomic spectrum from the systemic patterns of domination reinforced in the traditional university classroom.
Wished I’d read this in university.
