https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2548866.James_Potter_and_the_Hall_of_Elders_Crossing
This is probably the most impressive piece of fan-fiction I have ever read.
Writers of Jane Austen fan-fiction (of which I've read a fair amount) should take notes from G.
He remains respectful of both the world and characters J.K. Rowling created while adding his own elements.
In my opinion, J.K. Rowling is an absolutely exquisite writer.
While Lippert's writing style is not quite as flawless as J.K. Rowling's, he is definitely a good writer in his own right.
I'm sure there are many people who could pick apart his interpretation of the wizarding world and the characters with whom we are all familiar.
An American by birth, he started writing the series in 2007, after his wife and children said how much they would miss the Harry Potter series when it would soon be over.
In this book, he chronicles Harry's first born James' adventures in his first year at Hogwarts.Here are a few random things which I liked/disliked about the book.What i liked:1.
He's everything that Harry was NOT, as an 11 year old.
like magic in the Rowling way --- deep, dark and fascinating.
The initial part of the book dabbles too much with the ways of Muggles for any Muggle's liking.
Only then I felt like things kind of started to fall apart for me a little.
There seemed to be very little regard for age in this story, which was definitely a big difference between this and Rowling's books, where, if I remember correctly, students only shared rooms and classes with other students in their own year.
Things like that just didn't seem well thought out to me.In addition, I felt like I couldn't recognize the original characters in Lippert's iterations of them--at least the ones who had grown up since Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, like Harry and Neville.
It's exactly the sort of things you would expect from Harry Potter's son.It's a great kids story, just like the original Harry Potter books.
Lots of things were hinted at and happening, lots of classes and mischief, but nothing that explained the events at the beginning of the book enough to satisfy my curiosity and continue reading.
Eventually, being one to finish what i start, i went back to it and found that after four or five pages, things really started to happen in a way that i became hooked just as badly as i had been when reading Harry Potter.
This actually turns out to be a fairly important part of the story, which only makes the pulled-it-out-of-his-ass-ness of it worse.-- There are several other errors as far as the way things work in the wizarding world (floo communication, for example).The Ugly –-- The author does not content himself with simply the highly overused cliché of ‘the American exchange student’ (though he certainly includes it), he also gives us an entire cadre of Americans, including three new teachers—one of whom, I kid you not, is Benjamin Franklin.
I feel Mr. Lippert tried to make it not seem so because he tried to make James' motives stem from wanting to stand outside his father's shadow, but in the end, it only made James make very dumb decisions.The thing I hate most in literature is stupid characters.
You cannot make me believe that someone was that dumb to make that kind of decision.(view spoiler)[Also who didn't see Ralph's wand being the staff the MOMENT THE THREE RELICS OF MERLIN WERE EVEN MENTIONED?!
(hide spoiler)] Who didn't see James bringing the damn cloak?Through sheer force, Mr. Lippert FORCED all the three relics to being in one place.
It is not J.K. Rowling nor is it Harry Potter.In some ways, it's like watching (in my opinion) the first few Harry Potter movies, where many of the details from the books were changed or omitted and you're still grappling with how Hogwarts in the movies wasn't exactly the way you had imagined it when reading the books.James Potter is Harry's son.
Benjamin Frankli(y)n?Once you release that because you've accepted you're reading fan fiction, then you can enjoy the little things, like Ralph creating a peach tree, and finding Snape everywhere.
That calls for a much larger shift than what I feel like actually happened.
So, I really didn't enjoy this book, which I had started reading in early December and took forever to finish because I found it an awkward format.
But I didn't give it a low rating purely on the grounds of its format, it was more a matter of content.
This novel was full of whiny drama and I would maybe recommend it to fans of Twilight or something.
It really didn't remind me of any of the other Harry Potter novels at all, at least not style-wise, and the personality of the characters seemed odd.
I love the artwork and potential for this book and it starts professionally and promisingly, but it ends up with somewhat immature writing and ripping off Reservoir Dogs.
I thought that Mr Grey was going to be a 50 Shade reference, so I was at least happy it wasn't but you need a new bunch of names and probably totally re-write the prologue.
'They can't talk propper, like wot we dunn', but that doesn't mean you need to rub my nose in the fact.
This is a fan fiction series I have just encountered. It's about Harry Potter's oldest son, James, and takes a year before the epilogue of the Deathly Hallows and during James's first year at Hogwarts. And, don't get the fact that it is fan fic discourage you. The book is a remarkable achievement. It's worth reading if you are done with the Harry Potter series. I was really happy to read more about the Harry Potter world. I'm sure I will read the next book.
Honestly, I can say that it is different from, but just as good as, the Harry Potter novels written by J.
This book some how managed to compliment and expand upon the endlessly interesting world of Harry Potter.
Lippert has rekindled that overwhelming feeling of curiosity that I had when waiting for the next Harry Potter novel.
I am surprised that more people haven’t read these yet.
I recommend this book and the following two (even though I haven’t gotten to them yet) to anyone who has read the seven Harry Potter novels.Again, all I can say is that I am impressed.
Wow! I have to say I'm impressed about this book! Never would I thought I'm gonna read something HP'y again. I'm afraid that reading this book is a waste of time? Got me wrong, eh. I recommend this I think to all HP readers who want some more read of Hogwarts!

I wouldn't have paid for it (I know there's another pay copy of a spin off of this fan fiction).I have nothing against fan fiction.
And what was altered didn't even make sense for the storyline - Merlin is feared the whole novel and yet when he's resurrected/changed the laws of apparition to return to hogwarts he's a stern yet jovial character.
This doesn't happen in England yet in the novel it appears to?
I know I sound like I'm nitpicking, but all these little things add up.The muggle who somehow penetrates magic boundaries makes no sense - was he a squib and this information glazed over?
Don't go in there expecting a replica of the previous 7, but do expect to enjoy the story and some of the new characters (and a few old) that have been introduced.Once you get through the first few chapters which are mostly inundated with Mugglisms/Americanisms, the book is quite a good read and up to the test of following Harry Potter.Once the story got rolling I found myself downloading the next chapter immeadiately.
I zipped through the last 7 chapters without a thought and I feel that this is a pretty good testament to what Lippert has accomplished.
James Potter doesn’t have his own villain; the Progressive Element is shaping up to be interesting, but that’s a battle of the minds rather than a battle of men, so it isn’t clear how Lippert will drive the plot for the next books (he’s already written two more).Rowling’s writing style was never the strong point of the Harry Potter books; she can be repetitive with her adjectives, for example.
Again, this lack of thoroughness comes from the fact that too much is going on; with one antagonistic plot at a time, readers might come to know the characters better.Overall, “James Potter and the Hall of Elders’ Crossing” has one very serious thing going for it: it’s a novel-length fanfiction that is already complete.
the three main characters - feel like part of Miss Rowling's world, yet, they are different from the original cast.
I am the type of person who remembers too much.Basically, Mr. Lippert takes the Harry Potter universe to the next level, which is great, but would also mean that if I continue reading, this knowledge of what happens with Hogwarts will remain with me every time I reread the original 7 books and I don't want that.It's like seeing one of your favorite series wrap up and you feel sad, yet satisfied.
4 Wands(After some serious contemplation...)Harry Potter and the Cursed Child may be the book that HAUNTS me this year.
I like the idea of adding something new, it could be Irish warlocks, Romanian dragons and villains, Alaskan Goblins....2 Less magicalThe dark and fascinating factor was lower in this book, it was less magical somehow.
Someone you can hate, fear and plot against...I'm still waiting and hope we see someone super evil in the next book.Would I say this was a continuation of the Harry Potter world?
No.We have lived, enjoyed and explored that journey to a satisfying end.But this is definitely a promising Spin Off series with a fascinating protagonist, i.e. James Potter.
Also, the idea of having some sort of continuation after "Deathly Hallows", made me grab this story and read it, forgetting it wasn't written by the genius herself.This "book" - since it's not a true publication but an on-line reading - manages to create a plausible continuation for Harry Potter saga, this time being his son James the main character.
I admit never having thought of that while reading Rowling's work, but Lippert managed to pick something completely different from what we were excepting, and transform it into a plausible (sorry the repetition of words) plot that would make us - my opinion of course - forget that we are not reading Rowling.
It was definitely well written, and had a very similar tone and voice as the original Harry Potter series.
But there were a few scenes I just didn't take to - some new creatures and magical practices didn't quite feel at home in Rowling's universe, and some scenes were very talky and harder to get through so that I felt like reading was a chore at times.
I was able to predict a lot of things that happened toward the end of the story way beforehand, although one thing did catch me off guard and it was really cool.
However, I do think this story is worth a shot for any Harry Potter fan, and I will continue reading this series by Lippert.
This was almost as good as the original series. The essence of the Harry Potter books was captured in this story, but with the son. The use of historical figures as well as mythological figures helps the reader connect. The story has all the intrigue build in. I got to a point that could not put it down. Great read for young adults, as well as adults. Would recommend highly
I was as big a Harry Potter fan as anyone, but I never read fanfic before, because I just didn't think it felt right, I didn't want to get my "journey" messed up with many different fictional universes - many with dubious quality, to put it nicely.
While reading, I wondered why the author kept writing something he would have to publish for free - writing a book is a lot of work, and rarely pays off, but here, it'll be impossible for all future to make as much as a dime off it - instead of developing his own fictional universe that he can actually make some money from.
Most fan fiction is unreadable crap, but there are a few authors who can actually write at a professional level, or nearly so. If you like Harry Potter and the very idea of fan fiction doesn't make you turn up your nose, then this next generation story is worth reading. While I didn't like all of the elements Lippert added into the "canon" universe (the Americans and the "quantum" explanation of magic, for instance), it's otherwise very much in the same spirit as the original books.
The writing itself was fine, the characters were fine, the continuation of the last scene front he real books was fine.
The Harry Potter books are essentially very British, and that's something I absolutely loved about them.
Reading some of the other reviews, I can interpret two things that would NEVER happen at Hogwarts: A) a muggle got into Hogwarts B) technology was used at HogwartsAs I said before, I couldn't finish reading the story myself (as of yet, I may find that my curiosity gets to me one day), and so I cannot say with uttermost conviction that I know exactly what happened, etc.
I thought it would be great to indulge in my love for the wizarding world with a fresh set of stories, especially since the ratings weren't half bad.But just a few pages in and I couldn't believe how awful it was.
(hide spoiler)] It was almost like the author had read the originals a long time ago and didn't bother refreshing his memory before writing these.
(view spoiler)[I mean, what equipment shed is going to be within walking distance of Hogwarts and the Quidditch pitch and still need protection from Muggles?
In many moments, you couldn’t distinguish between the two authors, and that is a huge accomplishment.This book has the same silly moments of awkwardness that made the Harry Potter series delightful and remarkably close to the human realm and not as something mythical because of magic and supernatural and otherworldly creatures, which I think is what gave it its resounding success.Now I’m going to start with the spoilers.
When the ghost of Cedric Diggory talked to James Potter through the inscription on the Triwizard Cup, it was an eerie moment masterfully displayed, and I give big kudos to Mr. Lippert for that.I loved the part of Old Mrs. Black distracted by TV.
Al fin de cuentas en ese universo ya nada podría seguir siendo igual luego de los terribles acontecimientos que la misma autora narrara en los dos últimos tomos de la serie.La trama es muy entretenida y apasionante; abundan esos aspectos a los que ya nos habíamos acostumbrado: el misterio, el humor, la ternura, las dudas, los temores y la necesidad de tomar decisiones que nos agobian a cualquier edad; los personajes nuevos son excelentes, y ni que decir que unos cuantos reencuentros que agitan esas fibras del corazón que destinamos para aquellos recuerdos especiales.El autor dice en su carta final que ...
I started reading this and literally felt dirty for the first 20 pages, so I stopped.
However, I looked this book up on wiki and apparently Rowling tried to stop the production of this and then talked with the author and gave her blessing as long as it is promoted as fan fic.
So I picked up where I left off once I felt I had the blessing of the most high author in the world.
It's an easy read and a way to get back and enjoy the world we probably all love!I'm going to only give this 4 stars though.
Leído para el 2015 Reading Challenge. #44. Escrito en otro idioma.Reseña completa en mi blog: La cueva de Danny. Un poco lento al principio pero conforme va avanzando se pone cada vez mejor, para ser un fanfic esta bien escrito y bien desarrollado. Se los recomiendo.
In relation to the thing I just mentioned, yes, it's all well and good to talk about it, but when the Muggle-borns go on and on and on about it, it gets a bit old.I thought the whole Americans coming to Hogwarts was weird.
While I enjoy quantum physics, I found his discussions on it boring - not to mention grounding everything in science sort of ruins a lot of the fun, whimsy and, in his hands, the point of magic.But I think, even worse, were the little touches that threw me off - first years and fifth years sharing not only dorm rooms, but also taking the same classes?
