https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/320.One_Hundred_Years_of_Solitude
In the small town of Macondo, weird things happen all the time, and nobody really notices.
Or if they do notice that, for example, the town’s patriarch has been living for the last twenty years tied to a chestnut tree, nobody thinks anything is at all unusual about it.This, of course, is a great example of Dream Logic – the weird seems normal to a dreamer, and you have no reason to question anything that’s happening around you.
Reading this book is kind of like a really weird game of The Sims - it’s about a family that keeps getting bigger and bigger, and something happens to everybody.
Here's how it breaks down:AMAZING THINGS: I can literally feel new wrinkles spreading across the surface of my brain when I read this guy.
(Also, his sentences average about 1,438 words each, so pretty much it's either him or Faulkner)REASONS WHY MOST OF YOU WILL HATE THIS BOOK: I have to engage every ounce of my mental ability just to understand what the *@ is going on!
Not even the classic Russians suffer from as much name-confusion as this guy.On an uber-disturbing note, Marquez has once again (as he did in Love in the Time of Cholera) written a grown man having sex with a girl as young as 9...
So I know that I'm supposed to like this book because it is a classic and by the same author who wrote Love in the Time of Cholera.
(If this all sounds too specific, yes I had this conversation with a professor of mine).I know that other people love this book and more power to them, I've tried to read it all the way through three different times and never made it past 250 pages before I get so bored keeping up with all the births, deaths, magical events and mythical legends.
Then again, he also used to re-read Ulysses for fun, which just goes to show that you should never take book advice from someone whose IQ is more than 30 points higher than your own.I have patience for a lot of excesses, like verbiage and chocolate, but not for 5000 pages featuring three generations of people with the same names.
To be fair, the book isn’t actually 5000 pages, but also to be fair, the endlessly interwoven stories of bizarre exploits and fantastical phenomena make it seem like it is.
The whole time I read it I thought, “This must be what it’s like to be stoned.” Well, actually most of the time I was just trying to keep the characters straight.

شعـــــورك بالعجـــــزهذه هي مشكلة الرواية الكبرىأنت في حال من الافتنان والنشوة لا يوصفوانعقاد لسانك
فلا يعقل أن إنساناً مثلنا يستطيع أن يكتب بهذه العبقرية رواية متداخلة كل هذا التداخل و تتكون من 500 صفحة و تقع أحداثها في مئة عام و لا يوجد في شجرة العائلة إلا اسمين اثنين , أورليانو و خوسيه أركاديوأما "صالح علماني" ,, فلابد أنه هو الآخر ممسوس و إلا فكيف تُفسرون قدرته على ترجمة هذا الجنون؟اللعنــة على العبقرية التي ستسبب لنا _نحن القراء_ فقد العقول
"What is your favourite book, mum?"How many times have my children asked me that, growing up with a mother who spends most of her time reading - to them, alone, for work, for pleasure - or looking for new books in bookstores wherever we happen to be."I can't answer that, there are so many books I love, and in different ways!""Just name one that comes to mind!"And I said, without really knowing why, and without thinking:"One Hundred Years Of Solitude!""Why?""Because..."This novel taught me that chaos and order are two sides of the same medal - called family life.
the first chapter is just brilliant: gypsies bring items to Macondo, a village hidden away from mass civilization by miles of swamp and mountains… these everyday items (magnets, ice, etc.) are interpreted as ‘magic’ by people who have never seen them and it forces the reader to reconfigure his/her perception of much of what s/he formerly found ordinary.
how can i trust and believe in a character who takes such pains to understand ice and magnets and who, using the most primitive scientific means, works day and night to discover that the earth is round -- but then will just accept that carpets can fly?
You have to read each page, soaking up every word, immersing yourself in the imagery.
It's hard to keep track of the characters, at times (mainly because they are all named Jose Arcadio or Aureliano), but a family tree at the beginning of my edition was helpful.
The book follows the Buendia family, from the founding of fictional Macondo to a fitting and fulfilling conclusion.
You begin to realize, as matriarch Ursula does, that as time passes, time does not really pass for this family, but turns in a circle.
And as the circle closes on Macondo and the Buendias, you realize that Mr. Marquez has taken you on a remarkable journey in his literature.
That said, One Hundred Years of Solitude is a masterpiece of narrative ability, and is itself unique as a statement, but reminiscent of many other great books: Pasternak’s Doctor Zhivago, Lowry’s Under the Volcano, Buck’s The Good Earth, and Joyce’s Ulysses were the works that I thought of while reading, but no doubt this is a one of a kind.Using all of the literary devices I have ever learned and making up many more as he went along, García Márquez established a new epoch of descriptive resonance.
An epic following the Buendia family for 100 years, Solitude is truly a great novel of the Americas that put magical realism on the map.
First Ursula who lived to be 122 years old and then her daughter Amaranta, the women expanded the family home and raised successive generations so that new Jose Arcadios and Aurelianos would not repeat the mistakes of their namesakes.
Between the prose and magical realism and a memorable story for the ages, One Hundred Years of Solitude is an epic, genre changing, extraordinary novel.
How readable is it?Gabriel García Márquez, plays around with reality itself; he plays around with the limitations of fiction; he uses elements of magic, of the fantastic, to give voice to things that could never be said quite as effectively in normal terms: he breaks through realism and establishes his own original style.
No matter how much we want to change the world (or how much we believe in a revolution or a new political ideal) these good intentions often become warped when faced with the horrors of war and bloodshed.
Nor am I disputing that he knows how to come up with an interesting story.
By focusing on the external side of things, and by never allowing his characters to speak for themselves (the dialogue in the book amounts to about five pages, if that), Marquez keeps his reader from getting to know his characters, and from understanding why they do the things they do.
I kept waiting for Marquez to focus on one character long enough to make me care about what happened to him or her, but he never did, choosing instead to introduce new characters (more Aurelianos...
This will be a better life for all, a utopia, his people will prosper, the first born will appropriately be a Buendia, the son of Jose and Ursula, named after the founder of the town Jose Arcadio himself, soon another son Aureliano and daughter Amaranta, seven generations will live here, the last six, to be their birthplace .
The sense of foreboding pervades the whole story: the rain continuing for many days and inundating the streets, the unceasing storm before the arrival in town of a heraldic character, and the fearful episode when townspeople begin to suffer a terrible memory loss, so that to remember the names and functions of things they write it down on labels and tie those labels to objects like chairs and tables.
“I was thinking the same thing,” Jose Arcadio Buendia said, “but suddenly I realized that it’s still Monday, like yesterday.
He described him as "The greatest of us all."Louis de Bernières was similarly inspired by the great man.I first read this book more than twenty years ago, and it has remained part of my authorial psyche ever since.As with Rushdie's work, you can literally point a pin at any sentence in this book to reveal an imaginative genius that most of us could never aspire to.
one vast and musical saga."So there you have it, a book so momentous that I will revisit it a few more times before I eventually pop my clogs.
WARNINGS WARNINGS I don't recommend this book if you feel uncomfortable with books that depict graphically* Pedophilia/rape (view spoiler)[ A 9 year old girl forced to marry and later bear a child to a grown man (hide spoiler)]* Incest/child abuse (view spoiler)[ The Buendia family members are constantly falling in love with close cousins, half brothers, nephews. An older woman Amarantha makes out with her underage nephew (hide spoiler)]* Non sensical Violence (view spoiler)[ including the crue
This book leaves you feeling disturbed  (hide spoiler)]*Prostitution* Cheating* Bestiality* Women treated as objects sometimes by their own parentsIf you like me grew up reading marvelous books like Harry Potter, Percy Jackson, Twilight, The Hunger games, which are all extremely strong in terms of characterization and character development and which are at times trashed by the same critics that praised this piece of cr%p, I doubt you'll enjoy this book because:* No plot, everything is a messy mix of twisted, and I mean TWISTED, disturbing, cringe-inducing family anecdotes*No character development.
صد سال تنهايي كتابي است كه در همان روزهاي اول چاپ در دنيا سر و صداي زيادي كرد و خيلي زود نسخه هايش ت
And as long as I haven't over-used it already - beautiful.It's the literary Big Fish and I'm sure people will and have debated what it means, and authorial intent and it won the Nobel Prize for crying out loud, but maybe it's to display on a prominent house wall and be debated.It's easy to get a handle on the broad and general themes - history is cyclical - not progressive, progress is a myth (and "progress" is evil), go after love, be careful not to let memories or nostalgia bow you down, seek knowledge, the world is mysterious and doesn't always make sense, don't be intimidated of anybody - especially of your past self or selves.Beyond that it's just conjecture.The story begins with Jose Arcadio Buendia -the patriarch - and the founding of Macondo.
أقول لمن نصحني به: سامحك الله على هذ النصحية..
المصيبة أنه يعلق على ترجمته للكتاب فيقول إن هذه الرواية من أجمل ما قرأ!لا أدري ما هو سر ولع كتاب أمريكا اللاتينية بالغجر والكيمياء وتحويل المعادن إلى ذهب وحجر الفلاسفة (آه من حجر الفلاسفة) والعرب ...
المفروض أن تشدك الرواية لقراءتها لكنني لم أستطع أن أتجاوز الصفحة 49 من الكتاب...إذ تخيلت نفسي وأنا أقرأه كمن يمشي حافيا على الحصى في ساعة القيظ...يكاد يكون لجميع الرجال في الرواية الاسم ذاته وهو "خوزيه أركاديو" بحيث يضطر الكاتب إلى التفرقة بينهم بترقيمهم : خوزيه الأول والحفيد والابن والجد وهكذا...بالمختصر المفيد..
Nombres que se repetirán en las siete generaciones, lo que lo hace muy confuso, pero interesante.En esta familia todos los integrantes parecen estar destinados a la soledad.---This is my biggest favorite book of all time.And is not for less.Through this book happen events narrated in other books of the same writer, like the Sad story of Candida Eréndida and its soulless grandmother, Isabel seeing raining in Macondo and The funerals of the great Mama.It narrates the history of seven generations of the family Buendía from its beginnings and foundation in the town Macondo.Jose Arcadio Buendía and Ursula Iguarán are two cousins who marry, but who have the fear of the myth that said that their children could be born with pig tails.
Ah!Has it really happened?Is it really a novel?It's one of those books which leave you with somewhat these kind of thoughts; it's a book which moves with every word. The novel deals with so many themes that it really hard to associate it with a few.However, one thing is for sure that the novel leaves you spellbound with an 'almost out of the world experience'; and you want to experience it just one more time every time you experience it !!!
399. Cien años de soledad = One Hundred Years of Solitude, Gabriel García MárquezOne Hundred Years of Solitude (Spanish: Cien años de soledad) is a landmark 1967 novel by Colombian author Gabriel García Márquez that tells the multi-generational story of the Buendía family, whose patriarch, José Arcadio Buendía, founds the town of Macondo, a fictitious town in the country of Colombia.Characters: Úrsula Iguarán, Remedios Moscote, Remedios, la bella, Fernanda del Carpio, Aureliano Buendía, José Arc
صعود رمدیوس به آسمان، درست مقابل چشم دیگران؛ کشته شدن همه پسران سرهنگ آئورلیانو بوئندیا، که از زنانی در جبهه جنگ به وجود آمده‌ اند، توسط افراد ناشناس از طریق هدف گلوله قرار دادن پیشانی آنها که علامت صلیب داشته؛ و طعمه ی مورچه‌ ها شدن آئورلیانو نوزاد تازه به دنیا آمده ی آمارانتا اورسولا از این موارد است.
"Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aureliano Buendía was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice."And so begins our journey into Macondo, as García Márquez's words walk us through seven generations of the Buendia family, where time has come to a standstill, and the fate of every character seems to be written with an ink of tragedy.Gabriel García Márquez is a truly gifted storyteller, and his ability to find metaphors, to make fables out of the most mundane events in life with the charm of Scheherazade allows him a rare distinction of being one of the pioneers of magical realism.
Well, I certainly don't think I would take this as one of my few novels after being dumped on a desert island, nor would I have a special place on my bookshelf, and take it out every now and then to scrape moss from the cover and shoo away any unwanted lizards from within the pages, but yes, I am glad to have read it.My fifth Marquez book had what I would come to expect in terms of magical realism, but through all the death, violence, and weird happenings, I found many of the characters still attached to real life situations, dealing with love, loss and war that had real consequences.
"The book picks up not too far after Genesis left off." And this fictitious chronicle of the Buendia household in the etherial town of Macondo somewhere in Latin America does just that.
The story is aided by a pedigree one keeps referring to in the beginning of the book, as its immense scope (yes, 100 years) and maddening array of characters demand of the reader to conjure up visualizations of what exactly is going on.
I understand Marquez’s metaphorical recapitulation of the history of Latin America, his articulation of the repetitiveness of human folly over generations, his recognition of the dangers of human inquiry and technological progress, his appreciation of the dialectical quality of things like ambition, masculine strength, sex, and family life.
the world of the participative human being; personal ambition vs.
I think I would prefer the story of Marquez’s gypsy seer, Melquiades, who had “an Asiatic look that seemed to know what there was on the other side of things.” But Marquez doesn’t say anything else about what that might be.
”Era como si Dios hubiera puesto a prueba toda capacidad de asombro, y mantuviera a los habitantes de Macondo en un permanente vaivén entre el alborozo y el desencanto, la duda y la revelación, al extremo de que ya nadie podía saber a ciencia cierta dónde estaban los límites de la realidad.”Esa frase de Gabriel García Márquez, ese gigante literario que nos regaló Colombia, resume perfectamente la perfección que este libro contiene.

