https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118347.Lions_and_Shadows
This is the book I wish I could hand to all of those people writing articles about people in their twenties.
Feeling most confident at the beginnings of things, before they've had a chance to become complicated.I love Isherwood's thin fictional veil.
I strongly identify with his conflicting desires: 1) to live a life of experiences to fuel his writing, and 2) to curl up in a ball by the fire and never go outside again.There are no easy answers here, but it is nice to be able to turn to the rest of Isherwood's story and the satisfying life he made for himself.
Now that I'm back home I depend on my brother and mum for my library books because I don't have library card to the British Council library and it seemed pointless to get a costly 6 months subscription when I'm only home for two months, but having to wait for them to finish their books and only being able to get one at a time is starting to drive me mad.
Especially since Isherwood is so, so charming and I can't wait to get my hands on some of his other books.
Quite enjoyed a lot of this.The bit before university? Great.The bit at university? Really great.That first bit after university? Oh so very plodding.That bit where he goes back to be a medical student? Pretty good.
Yummy yummy yummy and then MORE yummy .....❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤❤
Yummy yummy yummy and then MORE yummy .....❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
This is his autobiographical account of his journey to writer-hood which involved writing a few bad novels, accepting blunt and honest criticism from the family writer-friend, acting the artist, getting himself expelled from Cambridge and quickly deciding he wanted to be a doctor and then, in his first year of medicine, deciding just as fast that he was quite, quite mistaken.
In the background, his family, who I would have loved to have read more about, were unfailingly supportive of him, no matter what.
I think, for anyone interesting in writing, it's compelling stuff.
Isherwood simply doesn’t live long enough; today’s technology might have afforded him at least a few of these book innovations!
After leaving Cambridge, Isherwood takes a series of positions, one as a personal secretary, another as an English tutor for young pupils.
A dear friend, also a writer, “Chalmers,” asserts his theories, and Isherwood concurs: “‘I saw it all suddenly while I was reading Howards End .
Isherwood takes her advice and—twenty books later—never looks back, except, of course, to write about it!
A charming, fascinating semi-autobiography of Christopher Isherwood's late teens and early twenties. It's fascinating in part for its partially fictionalised portraits of people like W H Auden and Stephen Spender, and of course for Isherwood's carefully constructed self-portrait. It's also interesting in what is conspicuously absent - any direct exploration either of his relationship with his family, and his sexuality.
Though slow to start, Isherwood's memoir of his college mistakes and early-mid 20s adventures is as relevant a guide as ever for the aspiring writer looking to break free from the expectations of a "normal life"... whatever that means.
A painfully relatable read. As an aimless twentysomething graduate/dropout myself, I felt personally called out on several occasions by Isherwood's self-deprecating humor about his own twenties. Bro!!! I feel you.
Delightful. It's a decidedly critical look at the class that Isherwood himself was a part of, a fictionalized autobiography of his younger years taking us by the hand into his Berlin era.
However, I didn't enjoy it as much as might have for two reasons.
I mostly read this because I had it on my shelf and I know it precedes Christopher and His Kind, but I might take a bit of a break from Isherwood before I read that book, because I don't want the hangover of some of the self-indulgent elements of Lions and Shadows to spoil it for me.
It is, as all his books are, very self-deprecating and like most of his work, shines at evoking a deeper appreciation of a time, place, and social system that now seems so long gone and distant.This covers, roughly, his experiences at school, at university, living in a Bohemian neighborhood in London, working as a secretary and tutor, and taking a try at medical school, though all along his clear and primal focus is to be the next great and highly celebtrated English author.
After reading this book, I admire him more for the following reasons: - His bravery in writing about "The Test" during the 30's, albeit a veiled account if not given the benefit of hindsight.
comes to mind frequently while reading this book.
Here, one can already see Isherwood adapting to the role of the passive observer (to be further refined into later works, where the narrator becomes ensconced into a participating character) - but not quite there yet - and the explosions of personality scattered throughout brings the book and its images to life.
'Lions and Shadows' is one of Christopher Isherwood's biographies; this one details the end of his time at prep school, his short Cambridge career, and on through to the publication of his first novel.'Lions and Shadows' prompted me to want to read an Isherwood novel.
Ironically without 'Lions and Shadows" I imagine it would not have occurred to me to do so.The writing is very dense, with little, to no, dialogue.
The imagined world that he and his chum develop and discuss as an escape to their seclusion at Cambridge is the most intriguing part of the book.
The monstrous characters that inhabit this false world of "Mortmere" twist and morph as Isherwood matures.
Isherwood and his friends (including Auden and Spender albeit under pseudonyms) can come across as pretentious (mind you who doesn't cringe looking back at their youth?) and you can't help feeling he was a bit of an idiot when he deliberately flunked his exams and got booted out of Cambridge.
Some bits are odd - his descriptions of Mortmere (essentially a village of eccentric characters made up by him and a friend they hoped to turn into a novel ) don't really need to be there but overall he paints a compelling picture of youth and what it feels like to be young, fearless and facing a life of limitless possibilities.
I was disappointed that this book seemed so self-indulgent and did not have much reflection from a distance on the young man who in the 1920s was unconcerned about money, lacked empathy with the troubles of others, especially those of another class, was politically naive.
It's surprising that he should expect readers to be interested in the details of the fantasy world that fascinated him into his twenties, or in the dire plots of early failed novels.
I was interested in information about the time and the book improved towards the end.
he was only 34 when he wrote it.
I am inching into the book, actually not inching but dragging myself along.
Maybe because I am missing even a glimpse of myself, or because Isherwood comes across as a little too self-obsessed.
20s has varied shades, and I am missing many of them, the huge time gap may be undoing the charm, nevertheless I am sworn by myself to finish this in the shortest span possible.
One might find me rewriting a review, but if not please consider my forgetfulness as the possible reason.
The one section I have loved so far is when Baudelaire is discussed with a strange flair.
I read this immediately following Berlin Stories, and I liked it much better. The Isherwood who narrates this book seems to have a lot more distance from the Isherwood who appears as a main character, which also means that the Isherwood character gets to be a ::character:: instead of just the impartial observer he is in Berlin stories.I am pretty sure that this book is going to fall into the collection of books I am compelled to make silly allusions to all the time. I can't believe that I haven't been able to do so before now.
If there is one thing more boring than a writer writing about writing projects that never came to be, it is writers writing about a painter who is painting a painting that does not exist. Perhaps if one is more familiar with the details of Isherwood's early writing career, Lions and Shadows would be more interesting. The writing projects that never were I found to be boring. I was also distracted wondering who is Auden? Who is Spender? Other times, the writing is so clear that one is pulled along by the force of the current.
What I loved about this book were the crazy, detailed fictional worlds in the stories that Christopher and his friend would make up to entertain themselves. They never wrote them down, because to do so would mean committing to a certain beginning, middle, and end of the story, and that was something they just couldn't do. It amazes me that Isherwood was able to discipline himself enough to become a prolific writer of stories, plays, and novels. Lions and Shadows is a wonderful depiction of the interior life of a budding writer.
This is Isherwood's first autobiographical novel detailing his life from ages 17-25 (published when he was 34). Having read his three novels that preceded this one, I would say that the captivating writing style for which he is known for (and that I'm a fan of) really starts here. His attention to detail and the portraits of the people in his life are truly wonderful. I thought he could have cut some stuff out (like the long summaries of unpublished novels and the imaginary Mortmere world), but for the most part there was rarely a dull moment reading this.
Charming, thoroughly engaging and written with a wry sense of self-deprecation, peopled with an array of vividly-drawn, affectionately-portrayed characters, this memoir of Isherwood's early Cambridge years is vivid and entertaining, as well as providing a fascinating glimpse into a writer's developing consciousness and sense of craft. Incredible to think this was written so long ago, in a totally different world. And yet Isherwood's voice is so immediate and compelling. Wonderful.
This was an enjoyable fun read, Mr. Isherwood is amusing and he was quite the unique neurotic individual. He veils Auden & Spender in Mr. Weston & Mr. Savage but their personas shine thru this work, if you have not read Isherwood's classic Berlin Stories, start with this one as it ends with his leaving England for Berlin and his time there with Auden & Spender. This book is a great travel companion on a long bus, train, boat or airplane trip.
Interesting and fairly humorous memoir of Isherwood's early life, but probably should have read some of the early work (he writes All the Conspirators and The Memorial over the course of this book) prior to taking up this one.
Read for dissertation.I really rather enjoyed reading something of Isherwood's that was written at an entirely different period of his life. The way his writing develops into THE BERLIN NOVELS is evident, as is his development of his Isherwood persona portrayed in his books. I'm definitely going to read CHRISTOPHER AND HIS KIND to get an even further detailed view of his writing and life.
There is something truly magical about this book. Isherwood's manner of describing his friends and companions throughout his early life kept pulling me deeper and deeper into the story, into his life. But most importantly, I think Isherwood's books have such an effect on me simply because I feel I can relate to him so much. His thoughts, opinions, fears and dreams - I have often felt them, too.
Christopher Isherwood wrote "The Berlin Stories," a collection of short stories introducing the character from "Cabaret--" Sally Bowles. Most of his work is autobiographical. If you like stories set in the Twenties, you'll probably enjoy this book.
Pure delight.
Brief but entertaining. Endlessly self-deprecating in that British way that reads like a boast.
Mildly entertaining. About as interesting as my life was when I was twenty-five. No wonder he ran away to Berlin.
