https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62823.After_the_Banquet
The subsequent hullabaloo manages to throw Noguchi and Kazu together, and this gentleman of sixty and woman of fifty find themselves falling head-over-heels in love like teenagers.They become man and wife, and soon afterwards, Noguchi is chosen to run for office by the Radical Party.
And soon, Caesar's wife is attacked: then events proceed at a pace which nobody can control.-------------------------The novel is a masterful study of essential human nature in the dirtiest arena available in the modern world - democratic politics.
En büyük değişiklik şüphesiz romanın merkezine bir kadın karakter (Kazu) olması.
Haliyle Kazu karakteri garip bir his veriyor.
Eleştirmenlerin “Şölenden Sonra”yı daha katmansız bir roman olarak kabul etmelerinin kökeninde sanırım bu farklılık yatıyor.
Zira hiç Mişima’dan okumaya alışık olmadığımız bir karakter dünyası seriliyor önümüzde.Kazu’nun karakteri üzerinden okumamızı kitabı olumlu eleştirecek şekilde de eğiltebiliriz, olumsuz eleştirebilecek şekilde de.
Hele ki karşısında Noguci gibi tam da Japon geleneklerinden doğmuş bir erkek karakter varken.
Belki de elinin tersiyle Japon felsefesini itmiş ve liberal dünyaya uyum sağlamış yarı batılı bir kadın var karşımızda.
Ama bu kitabın anti-kahramanlarının Kazu üzerine geliştirdikleri tezlerini sonda bizim için haklı çıkarmasıyla herhangi bir batılı kadın imajından farklı bir yere konumlanıyor.
Ci fu il processo ; Mishima, ritenuto colpevole, dovette risarcire.A noi rimane però il bellissimo romanzo ambientato nel dopoguerra nipponico quando ormai la lotta politica (democratica) ricalcava quella occidentale, con tutte le bassezze a cui siamo abituati : propaganda convulsa ...fino alla 'macchina del fango'.Proprio in tale contesto si trova ad agire la cinquantenne Kazu, donna che, nelle prime pagine, viene rappresentata in una dimensione 'orientale' : la vediamo, totalmente appagata, passeggiare nello splendido parco del suo 'Rifugio dopo la nevicata' , ristorante di lusso, luogo spesso di ritrovo d'atmosfera discreta e accogliente per anziani uomini politici Conservatori.Pensa che la propria vita non abbia più svolte, ma in questo spesso ci sbagliamo.
Well-written boredom.
Asla gözardı edilmemesi gereken, bir kadının gücü ve kararlılığı üzerine...
76), politician and ambassador named Noguchi.
Eventually, she has become gradually interested in him as we can see from these excerpts:Noguchi, who had scarcely uttered a word, finally spoke.
We're still young, after all."Noguchi spoke with a smile, but the surging strength in his tone made the others fall silent.Kazu was captivated by this one remark.
Yes, those definitely had been Noguchi's words, and their meaning like the vibrations of a silver wire, sent a glow of light into Kazu's heart.
However, Noguchi and Kazu have their own amorous reasons and thus end up getting married in spite of disagreement from a famous politician named Nagayama.
But once they too were at a crossroads on a festival day."A charming, quiet novel that covers that kind of love that people can't be bothered too much to write or read about, indeed seem almost repelled by: old people falling in love.The aging owner of a Tokyo restaurant falls for an even older ex-foreign minister she meets by chance.
But with Mishima's novels, there is always something thicker than the plot.
The problem is that Noguchi, a thoroughly unpleasant man, is never conquered by those qualities that everybody else seems to love in Kazu: her tireless energy and enthusiasm for life.
Kazu, unbeknownst to her husband, starts to campaign on his behalf, obviously doing a far better job than Noguchi ever would.
Kazu realises at the end that she doesn't want to sell it.
When Kazu marries the restaurant looses its interest because there were other more compelling challenges for her to face.
When those challenges disappoint her - both politics and her husband's character - she realises that she had what she wanted all along.
Old people out for a walk and leaning on their sticks, smugly respectable housewives, little girls in bare-shouldered bathing suits, delivery boys - all were gnawing on bits of Kazu's flesh, and looked at her with heavy, sated eyes.But it's exhausting and dispiriting to read about a culture in which women are so infantilized.
There's something about the lack of direct communication - every emotion and thought is veiled, everyone wears a mask, there's a mask you wear for your husband, a mask you wear when you run into a woman you despise but must be polite to - that infantilizes the entire Japanese culture.
He pokes fun at their self-importance, rituals and politics but doesn't stoop to being too rude about the way they masticate ("Thirst for Love") or their bodies (poor old Honda and his shrivelled white bean in "Decay of the Angel").In fact, Kazu feels repugnance for young men.
She's a spicy, young fiftysomething with an interesting sexual history, a good body and a fabulous restaurant.
Noguchi is the only one of his "retired ambassador" set who is not resigned to living in the past, and this arouses Kazu's interest.

Interestingly observed clash of personalities in a marriage.
Reading this was sometimes helped by imagining the stern, dignified husband possessed of noble ideals as Kuchiki Byakuya, but sometimes not ....
The problem with this was mainly that thing you get when you are reading a book from outside your culture, where you don't know what the narrative conventions are or what's supposed to happen next or what characters' reactions mean.
There is a sometimes pleasing, sometimes alienating incomprehensibility to everything.Anyway I liked this more than The Temple of the Golden Pavilion, which I couldn't manage to finish because the main character was such an asshole.
Yukio Mishma's After The Banquet (1960) is interesting in the depiction of corruption in politics, but at heart it is a character study of a strong woman, Kazu.
Kazu, runs a restaurant, Setsugen, in Tokyo that is frequently by Japan's political power players.
There were a couple of trips to this event in the plot of the novel.
Apparently the novel was something of a scandal when it came out since it was modeled on a particular politician of the time and he actually won a ruling that it violated his privacy.
En cuanto al estilo, como siempre me ocurre con este autor, me ha encantado.
Sin embargo, tampoco creo que sea su mejor obra ni de lejos en este sentido, no expresa tanta belleza y pasión como otras que he leído por su parte pero no está mal.En cuanto al contenido, me parece que la parte central decae bastante y, aunque necesaria, sí que es cierto que se me hizo algo pesada y aburrida en ciertos puntos.
De todos modos, en general la historia me ha gustado, y ante todo creo que tiene un buen final.
No es la obra del siglo, pero está bastante entretenida.
I read Yukio Mishima's achingly romantic The Sound of Waves years ago.
This is the second novel of his I've read.
The main characters are a middle aged restaurant owner and an elderly retired aristocratic politician.
She never married and is the rather affluent owner of a restaurant which caters to mainly retired politicians and journalists.
Out of the group he is the most reserved, an ageing cold fish intellectual, but Kazu falls in love with him.
This novel is the story of their marriage and the politics surrounding it.
This is not a conventional love story.
After the Banquet is in one sense, a damning statement of the political - the political apparatus, and the political nature innate in human beings.
This story is partially based on factual events which occurred in his time.
Noguchi, a former government official, keen on spending the remainder of his days quietly, meets an independent and ambitious woman.
They marry and she persuades him to run for a high level post in the government against his better judgement.
This is an intriguing story of one woman's implacable self-serving motivations that nearly leads another to ruin.

I hate to do this because it's Mishima and it's so beautifully written, but 3 stars. It's the weakest Mishima book I've read, but at least it isn't terrible. It's not that there's anything missing ~ it's got that beautiful poetic prose and it's always interesting to read into the ideas presented in Mishima's work because a lot of it reflects his life e.g. death and politics. It just doesn't soar to the heights of his best work.
Kazu com certeza pertence a essa galeria de personagens imemoriais como Anna Karienina, Emma Bovary, Elizabeth Bennett, Julieta, etc., que, cada uma a seu modo, toma as rédeas do destino e da vida em suas mãos, não obstante o preço que terão de pagar; em alguns casos, preços trágicos.Kazu é uma força, é como o sentido da vida, sempre em frente, sem a possibilidade de nos voltarmos para trás e desfazer os passos dados e, assim, torna-se uma força de embate contra o tradicional(ismo), que tenta parar no tempo e retroceder, se possível.
O tempo avança, não retrocede.Quem tiver a oportunidade de ler esse livro, bem como as obras de Mishima, façam-no.
This is my first Mishima. I know that there are a few others that maybe would have been better to start with but I found a copy of this that I really loved. In After the Banquet Mishima adeptly tells the story of an older couple and how their love and marriage are affected by political ambition. The writing reminded me of Richard Yates at times. I really enjoyed After the Banquet and look forward to more Mishima in my life.
In terms of their personalities, they are diametrically opposite: Kazu is a woman blazing with life, who acts instinctively based on the ‘vibes’ she gets from her encounters, while Noguchi is old school Japanese, and never does anything without first thinking about it twice and about how his peers will view his actions.
The reader is carried along with these two personalities as Noguchi enters a race to enter politics and Kazu does her best to help him win, while understanding the forces ranged against him.
Many readers will remember the ritual suicide committed by Mishima back in 1970, but will only understand his motivations after reading through his works.
Just about everything Mishima writes will grip you.
It's amazing how well Mishima portrayed the inner working of her mind.
She's the kind of person who can't help playing with fire in a matchstick house.Compared to his works, Mishima does go a lot easier on politicians and corruption.
Although, his scenery descriptions are a work of art.
In this regard, Mishima rivals descriptive masters such as Tolkien and Frank Herbert.After the Banquet is pretty good, but watered down when held next to his books.
When I finish a Mishima novel, I expect be emotionally scared for the rest of the month.
Another possible problem is my lack of knowledge about social structures in post-war Japan, which play an important role in the plot.Kazu is a fascinating and complicated character, but I never really felt I understood her.
I watched her from a distance, as she made mistake after mistake in her pursuit of love and respectability.
Somehow I felt her accomplishments in creating her wonderful restaurant should have been enough to convince her of her own worth.
I found her behavior surprisingly lacking in self-awareness.I didn't hate this book, but I have to say I was disappointed.
Politics here are only an excuse to talk about marriage, about life and death.
But as Kazu and Mr. Noguchi try to share some time together, it is obvious that they have a too different kind of life.
While Noguchi would like to enjoy a settled kind of life, Kazu is all about being very active, meeting people, doing things all the time.
Maybe I am too young for now to enjoy this tale of life and death and would appreciate it much better when I am the age of Kazu.
My image about the author as a young student was an extremist and Rightist who committed suicide in public, and I was never interested in his books before.
Having read my first book by him, however, I must admit that my image of him was built all based on misunderstanding and prejudice.
"After the Banquet" is the most beautifully written story I have ever read in Japanese to date.
His language and expressions blew my mind.
It's vivid but not aggressive, subtle but strong.
I hope the English version of the book faithfully translates the beauty of Mishima's language and ideology.
3.5 - this was my first book by Mishima.
I enjoyed it - I enjoyed the descriptions of the characters and think the book contains an interesting look into human nature.
I enjoyed the look into politics and ambition.
It was also interesting to see this deceptively complex woman forge her way through a sexist society (this was written in the 60s).
Although the characters are interesting, I didn't particularly like any of them and I didn't feel particularly captivated by the story.
It was good but not amazing for me.
I would be interested to try out more by the author though.
Kazu è tale e non può evitare di esserlo; “c'è da chiedersi”, però, “se non si sbagliasse nell’insistere ad accendere il fuoco intorno alla pacifica esistenza del marito”. Già nella personalità della protagonista di Yukio Mishima la nota più originale è data da una coscienza desiderosa e bisognosa di veri e propri entusiasmi: come se attraverso il desiderio e il bisogno di nuove prove, opposti desideri di compagnia trovassero una certa possibilità di soluzione. - See more at: http://www.mangialibri.com/libri/dopo...
A Yukio Mishima classic about the backroom deals in Business and culture that is also a great and classic look how Japanese culture does what it does. But filtered via the eyes of Mishima.
Endlich mal ein japanisches Buch, was nicht so schlecht und seicht ist, wie die anderen.....
Un romanzo che inizia dove altri avrebbero terminato, non il migliore di Mishima (l'ho preferito altrove) ma certamente notevole.Nel riassunto si fa un paragone con "Madame Bovary", ma a parere mio il solo elemento che hanno in comune è che trattano della sconfitta di una donna, della morte dei suoi sogni e delle sue aspirazioni.
Nonostante la consapevolezza della falsità dell'esistenza, è comunque un principio di ricostruzione quello che pervade il finale del romanzo.Il tratteggio psicologico dei personaggi è, come sempre nel caso di Mishima, eccezionale.
