https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233722.Kristy_s_Great_Idea
they were such a huge part of my early reading life - i read them ever so many times, and took my favorite ones on vacation with me year after year when my mom told me i could bring a friend.(is that super sad?) i still remember tons of tiny details about the series:i remember that kristy burned her mouth on pizza in book one.i remember that mary-anne's father told her she could buy a bikini as long as the bottom was decent (guess he didn't mind seeing her boobs hanging all over the place)i remember that claudia's sister's iq was 196.just stupid little facts, but i remember more about this series than i do about actual people i know (i recently got back in touch with one of my favorite people from high school and she mentioned that her brother just got engaged, and i was like - "dude, you have a brother?" however, i know that kristy had three (charlie, sam, and david michael))bsc was my introduction to camus (and you had better believe i mispronounced that shit.
I am firmly convinced that, years hence, when Ann M Martin no longer graces the mortal coil with her presence, scholars will reflect upon the deceptively simple narrative lines of the Baby-Sitter's Club #1 and will discover the singing truths of human experience encoded in the mundane details of affluent suburban youth.
Like so many heroines before, Kristy attempts to reconcile her desire for autonomy with the crippling social restrictions on young females with her suburban Connecticut neighborhood.
Spurred on by her desire to gain financial independence, she forms an alliance with colleagues and attempts to find revenue streams through traditionally female child-rearing activities.
I am using the first Baby-Sitter's Club to represent the approximately, I don't know, 100 plus BSC novels I not only read, but owned, in my late elementary / early middle school years.
I was gifted the BSC board game, which was terrible, but amusing.
However, they illustrated to a young and somewhat impressionable child that it was okay to be any type of girl one wanted to be (sporty, into fashion, about saving the earth, etc.) and the members of the BSC entertained me for hours on end.
**Note: The BSC novels are ranked five stars simply to emphasize the many hours of reading bliss and entertainment they provided, and should not be misinterpreted as a reflection of their literary value.
Just today ( October 15th, 2018) Goodreads posted a blog celebrating 80's YA paperbacks and my Elementary school still had Babysitters books so I just "had" to grab a few and take a walk down memory lane.Kristin (Kristy) Amanda Thomas, Claudia Kishi, Mary Ann Spier, and Stacey McGill are the four founding members of the club living in Stoneybrook Connecticut.
Kristy is as bossy as I remember, but my brother would probably make a joke about how I was bossy too( leadership skills, bro!) Claudia lives with her mother and father, genius older sister, Janine, and their much beloved Grandmother Mimi.
Ew![Over fondue], Watson made this rule that if your bread fell off your fork and landed in the cheese, you had to kiss the person sitting on your right...And then, it happened.
So yeah, I may have gotten a little emotional at the last line: "I hoped that Mary Anne, Claudia, Stacey, and I – The Baby-sitters Club – would stay together for a long time." BECAUSE THEY DID, YOU GUYS.
It turns out that she’s there to care for two dogs, but it COULD HAVE BEEN WORSE and it feels like this prospect is just never addressed again (I guess, as the series goes on, they actually know all the families, BUT STILL).• BTW the fact that Kristy bans pet-sitting after the dog job was perhaps her worst idea (excepting the one in book 100, Kristy’s Worst Idea) because it’s an easy way they all could have made more money.
I don't feel like taking the time to add the whole series. But C'mon, you know you read them...all 549085290 of them AND the spin-offs. Looking back, they were terribly written and not realistic at all...But that didn't stop us from dressing like Claudia or trying to start our own BSC.
As a little soon-to-be gay boy in the 1980s, I watched my older sister devour the Baby-Sitters Club series.
And I learned at a young age it wasn’t “appropriate” for young boys to like the same things as their sisters.“Michael, take off those Madonna gloves!”When I picked up the first of the super-popular Baby-Sitters Club series, I couldn’t help but feel a bit of guilt.
Kristy’s Great Idea is book #1, and about Krsity Thomas’ idea of forming a Baby-Sitters Union…only they call it a “club.” They come together for pointless meetings, vote on matters, and collectively bargain for prices and advertising space.It was pretty obvious to me why these books were popular.
5 Words: Friendship, secrets, loyalty, family, responsibility.That was cute.I would have likely loved it when I was 12, and even now when I'm very much older it was a lovely read. I enjoyed the story, how the girls were introduced, the funny little problems they encountered. It was lovely.
This just popped up on my Goodsreads updates and now I'm feeling so nostalgic. I adored this series when I was a kid. Even just looking at the covers makes me happy. I'm really tempted to buy them all and read them again, but what if they're terrible now??
I'm terribly tempted to add all the BSC books to my goodreads for two reasons:1.
It would make me look all badass with lots of books...until someone happened to notice that half of them are the Babysitter's Club books.
My badass badge would then be taken away.So I'll just add the first one.
These books get five stars for the sheer entertainment value of 7-10 year old Andréa.
Stacy and Claudia were totally my favorites and I tried on several occasions to get my other 7-10 year old friends to set up a BSC.
It was never successful...probably since 7-10 year olds have zero babysitting qualifications.
But I did like them, in fact, I loved them, and the fun thing about this series is that they were a fad in the fourth grade, which added a social element to the otherwise solitary experience of reading....
kind of like Bookface for the late eighties!
Anyway, the best thing about these books was that Dawn was the coolest, and a vegetarian, and from California (I'm from California!
The other best thing was that Jessie was also the coolest (I'm named Jessie!
Puntje 17 van de Verbeelding Book Challenge: "Een boek lezen waar je gek van was als kind". De babysittersclub. Ayup. Ik denk dat ik bijna alle boeken van de Babysittersclub reeks heb gelezen, back in the day, en het was fijn om even terug te keren naar die personages. Maar het boek als volwassene lezen is toch helemaal anders dan het boek als negen of tien-jarige lezen.
Even as a preteen I recognized this was not great literature, especially as the series rapidly expanded, Ann Martin and what must have been a slew of ghost writers turning out books at an alarming rate.
Particularly for struggling readers I believe the predictable and repetitious nature combined with the less than demanding vocabulary can serve as a bridge to more expansive literature.
If the reader enjoys the book she (I may be sexist but I really can't imagine a boy having an affinity for these books) is likely to return for more books in the series thereby getting more practice which in turn strengthens the reading muscle, making her more limber when she moves on to more complex reading.
On one of my book challenges, I needed to read a book from my childhood. Plus, I'm in a pretty serious reading slump, and thought a short book would help me get out of it..I loved these books when I was younger, I remember checking out a couple every time I went to the library as a child. It wasn't a bad book, I enjoyed the nostalgia from re-reading it, and it was a quick read.2.5/5.(my ten year old self would've given it a 5/5)
Decided I wanted to Re-Live my childhood and read all these books from start to finish! 4 childhood friends come together to start a BABY-SITTERS CLUB. All of these girls Have major differences but all manage to be great friends. In this specific book we find out a big secret that Stacy is hiding...but would her friends truly judge her if they knew? What a great and fast nostalgic read
i have been reading them ever since...24 years now, i guess.
there is a fight in this book, after claudia accepts a job without offering it to the other girls & kristy confronts stacey about lying to avoid a club pizza party.
there is also some weird shit that later seems totally out of character, like kristy keeping her keys in her purse (kristy carries a purse?!?), the kishi parents not letting claudia wear make-up (but apparently jodphurs & claudia puff painting all of mr.
kishi's white dress shits are totally fine), & several references to kristy wearing dresses, jumpers, & kilts.
Reading this one now, as an adult, definitely brought back memories of staying up late to find out what crazy adventure the girls were going to go through next.There are a lot of people out there who feel that these books aren't well written and are completely unbelievable.
The books do exactly what they are planned to do: target preteen girls and middle readers.
Either way, I enjoyed the way that the girls have their own stories and characteristics.
The stories aren't completely about babysitting, but include other life events such as illness, divorce, and siblings.
When asked to name a childhood hero at a recent Feminist Club meeting, I instantly knew who to name: Kristy Thomas. Kristy is a tomboy, an alpha female, and totally gay (well, she gets a boyfriend later, but he is totally a beard). This book is girl love at its finest.
Since I read this to my daughter I allowed her to rate it. But I fully agree with her choice :)
its about 4 girls that started a babysitting club (Kristy,Claudia,Mary Anne and Stacie).its also about there adventures while baby sitting and some the kids they baby sit and there a secret with Stacie.
porter (the alleged witch who lives next door to kristy's stepdad-to-be watson) and boo-boo (watson's crotchety old cat whose belly touches the floor while he walks).two claudia outfits:-She was wearing short, very baggy lavender plaid overalls, a white lacy blouse, a black fedora, and red high top sneakers without socks.
Her long black hair was carefully arranged in four braids.-Claudia answered it again, this time wearing a baggy yellow- and black-checked shirt, black pants, red jazz shoes, and a bracelet that looked like it was made from a telephone cord.
In this one, Kristy gets the idea to start the Baby Sitters Club so she, Mary Anne, Claudia and Stacey join together to form the club!
Kristy realizes its not so bad and starts babysitting his kids- Andrew and Karen.Claudia- She gets in trouble for not paying more attention to school work but then she commits an hour after dinner each night and its okay.
Mary Anne- She and her dad come to the agreement that half of her baby sitting money can be spent and the other half has to go in the bank.
this book is great book, I wished there was movie out to watch it Tina Bryan in ca
I hated these books so much, my grandma would buy them and then give me money for completing them.
So when I saw the first one as I was packing up all my books for storage I couldn't help but read it again.
Janine is Claudia's super smart and annoying sister.
However Janine's stated IQ is 196.
How does Ann M Taylor choose to show that Janine is smart?
I forgot that everyone thought you were super exotic coming from * Gasp* New York!
Also while I remembered Stacey's diabetes I thought it took a few books before she told her friends.
We all still love you Stacey.
When I queried my friends for book recommendations, one particular smart-ass assigned me this title. Despite the lackluster circumstances, I enjoyed the story and 100% would read this to my kids one day. It was a wholesome story with good characters, challenges, and lessons. However, until I have a kid to read the series to, I will end my Baby-Sitters Club experience here.
I don’t remember this book at all from when I was a preteen. Kim just told me about the podcast, which is two guys discussing the books, and the one about this book is amazing. 4 stars for the book (I’m guessing, I loved this series as a kid and this one sets the stage), 5 stars for the podcast.
Nostalgia to my childhood favorites and this book was enjoyable for me even though I’m an adult in my 30s! I was so obsessed with this book series in my younger years... probably between grades 5-8!
I read this book to relive my childhood and so that I would know what’s in it when my step daughters read it. It’s perfect for them!
