https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7797.Ten_Apples_Up_On_Top_
What better story premise than three animals trying to best one another with apple stacking, only to have the town try to plot their defeat?
This Beginner Book does just that, with three friends trying to stack one more apple atop their heads to best the others.
It's a race around town as these three seek to keep their ten apples from toppling, but someone will soon knock over the apple cart, literally.
Neo enjoyed reading this story to me, practicing his reading and counting, all as the plot thickened.
A great book for the independent reader who wants to show off their skills.
I have read every Dr. Seuss book out there and have loved all of them, but this one gets extra kudos, because not only did it help my daughter learn how to count, it also encouraged her love of books! This was one of her absolute favorites as she was learning how to read all by herself and she read it repeatedly. The illustrations by Roy McKie are adorably simple, great book!
Came across this in a box of old books from childhood and flipped through it. All I can do is cringe at every page. APPLES CANNOT SUSTAIN BALANCE LIKE THIS, OH MY GOODNESS WHY HAVEN'T THEY FALLEN YET???? *cringe-sobs in the corner*Deeply unsettling.Fun rhymes though!
The kids thought animals balancing apples on their heads was funny. I read this as a kid too. A silly story for bedtime. An oldie and a goody. Quaint pictures.
This early reader is filled with rollicking fun, repeated rhymes and wonderful animals. It will delight the eyes and ears of little ones and tickle the tongues of early readers. My grandson pronounced it one of his favorites as he practiced his early reading skills and fluency.The storyline is also delightful. First the animal friends are competing to see how many apples they can carry on their heads. Then the bears chase them to get the apples. Finally, the apples are all shared and the animals are all friends. Great book to talk with young children about sharing.
Although I was a huge Dr. Seuss fan as a child, I missed Ten Apples Up on Top until my son started reading it.
He in turn read it to his sister so now both children love it.Ten Apples Up on Top is the story of three rollerskating friends, a lion, a dog and a tiger and their competition to see who can balance to most apples up on top.
That means we can either join together on the couch for family story time or Sean or Harriet can read the book to themselves.
You can see why Dr Seuss did this under a different name, awful stuff. Rubbish illustrations, poor rhyming and it makes the counting a bit confusing, with its repeating and sudden counting down. Not impressed at all so it gets 2*, I read this to my daughter, might get her to read it instead, see if the book has a better effect then.
It is not an award winnign book but so fun to read.
This book rhymes and has fun colorful pictures.
This book counts up to ten and down from ten.
It would be so good to practice book counting and rhyming in this book.
students who benefit: Those students that have trouble with either counting or rhyming.
Whole class use: I would read this book aloud and even try to have the kids say parts of the book aloud too.
I enjoyed reading this book to this current class im in.
The video is a person reading the book aloud.
(1961).This silly Beginner Book by Dr. Seuss invites children to count along as a lion, a dog, and a tiger compete to see who can balance the most apples on their head.
In classic Dr. Seuss fashion, the silly rhymes and simple line illustrations with limited use of color engage and invite children to count and read along.
The images support the text so that when the lion states, "I can do three!" we see him balancing three red apples on his head that readers can point to and count for themselves.
I had never read this as a child and was pleased to find it.We first used it as an early reader, but it works great as a read-aloud for little guys too. The words are fairly easy and mainly phonetic or sight words. It's fun and has a good rhythm as well.This book would also work well for math - counting as apples are added and taken away, as additional people join, etc.
still have this book from when I was a kid!
Hihihi, ceritanya lucu >___<Ketika singa, harimau, dan anjing (?) berkompetisi dengan apel ❤(ӦｖӦ｡)
Somehow we ended up with 2 copies of this board book. When we hide one from the toddler (because we've just read it 10 times in a row) he will find the 2nd copy...sigh
Dr. Seuss never fails. This as a great counting book, but done in a silly and fun way. It introduces rhyming words and repetitive phrases. As usual, it offers amusing illustrations.
I like also the rhythmic and the sequence of this story too such as “Apples apples up on top all of this must stop”.Learning experience:1-I can bring apples to the classroom and let the children pick any number they like to write it down on a piece of paper and then let them pick the apples based on what they wrote on their paper for example if one child wrote 4 apples on his paper he or she can pick 4 apples and so on 2-Print a boy or a girl shape and the apples of your choice.
If you like rhyming, counting, lions, tigers, and what I can only assume is a dog interacting with each other, then this book is for you!
I love all of those things, but I honestly make my husband read this to our infant at night because I'd rather read the other  Dr. Seuss books to her.
I think the counting is "too advanced" for my daughter at this stage.
Not because they count to ten, but because it's quick paced and a lot of apples (up to 10 on each character) on a page.
Even my daughter likes this one the least.
In this spirited and engaging counting book, a lion, a dog, and a tiger compete to see how many apples they can balance on top of their heads.
After counting along, young readers will find out who will be able to stack "ten apples up on top" of their heads: will it be the lion, the dog, or the tiger?
Children will enjoy the book's simple, yet clever rhyming scheme.
While many other counting books simply present objects for children to count, this book humorously delivers more: a plot, unexpected gags, and a surprise ending.
As always I love the crazy illustrations. A great read for youngsters learning to count in proper sequence. The animals are very competitive in trying to out due the next animal while balancing more and more apples on their head. Things get crazy for a minute near the end of book but in the end everyone sees how much fun apples on top can be.
Another favorite early-reader by Dr. Seuss! Comical illustrations and a fun story - this book was a delight to read as a child. It's fun to have read to you as an adult too.Reading Level: 1st - 2nd grades
All of my children have been obsessed with this book so I'm not surprised my almost 2 year old keeps asking to read the "apple book". We love it so very much we have a board book and a regular hardback.
One of the dumbest things I've ever read...ever...
This book helps teach children how to count to ten. This book uses fruit they can identify with and it keeps their attention during the counting.
My daughter got this book for Christmas. We've read it a couple of times since then. It's the one book where she can identify most of the words.
Dr. Seuss is marvelously talented at creating fun books with easy rhymes to read. He's also amazing at defying the laws of physics whenever it suits him!ApplesSeuss
Another one of my son's favorite books!
A nice counting book that uses rhyme and repetition
Classic Seuss uses apples, animals, and silly situations to keep track of those pesky numbers. Toddlers will giggle while learning counting. Used for Dr. Seuss Party at BPL-March, 2011
Ten Apples on TopWritten by: Dr. Seuss* (Writing as Theo LeSieg(Geisel spelled backwards) - Real name Theodor Geisel)Illustrated by: Roy McKieAges: 3-6US Grades: Preschool- Grade 1Lexile Measure: 200Fiction, Lion, Tiger, Dog, ApplesTen Apples on Top is a classic written by beloved author Dr. Suess.
With the rhyming rhythm, this book moves right along.There are wonderful opportunities to do addition problems while the story goes on, and there are situations where students can engage in simple addition using 3 single digit numbers.
(The cover is 4 + 5 + 1=10.) Let the students make the observations.* Please see my blog post for Science & Math activities 7 Amazing Apple Books Grades: Pre-K-5.
We've been re-reading Dr Seuss recently and it had me feeling nostalgic for growing up with them in my own childhood.
I was feeling kind of curious about how many picture books he wrote under the name Dr Seuss (46 or 60 depending on what source I turn to in Google) and some of the books resulted as being given a list of words or that 'Green Eggs and Ham' was the result of a bet to write a book using no more than 50 different words.
I started with Oh, The Places You'll Go! then moved to reading other books from Dr.Seuss. Interestingly my neighbour's kid has also started reading one of his books. It was highly entertaining experience reading this book with him.When you I read the book, I had no expressions. When my neighbour's kid was reading the book, the variety of expressions he gave was simply superb to watch.Now I have a friend along with whom I can read story books. Time to get some more if this experience.
