https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/509784.The_End_of_Eternity
So naturally when a girl shows up (the only female character in the entire book), she must spell T-R-O-U-B-L-E, and in this case, the end of Eternity.I enjoyed the story, but Asimov has never been my favorite among the Grand Old Masters of science fiction; there is something just a little too cold and calculating in all of his stories.
Η επιτομή της επιστημονικής εξωφρενικής έμπνευσης,η αιωνιότητα με τις απαραίτητες αλλαγές πραγματικότητας,οι "Αιώνιοι",που πράττουν με εγωιστική τεχνητή νοημοσύνη και αλλάζουν την ιστορία του γαλαξία με απρόσμενες συνέπειες.
Το καλύτερο βιβλίο επιστημονικής φαντασίας που έχω διαβάσει ως τώρα!!Ποτέ δεν ήμουν οπαδός της τετράγωνης λογικής,των μαθηματικών,της χρονικής μηχανικής και των εξισώσεων μηχανικού πεδίου που οδηγούν σε τοποχρονικές συγκινήσεις....(μόνο που τα γράφω πληγώνω τα αισθήματα μου).
Σαν να μου χάρισε για κάποια βράδια που κάναμε παρέα μια εξελιγμένη τεχνητή νοημοσύνη για να καταφέρω να παρακολουθήσω την αρχιτεκτονική του αφήγηση για το τέλος της αιωνιότητας.
Στους Κρυμμένους Αιώνες ( δεν ξέρω ποιοι ειναι, κρύβονται καλά)ζουν κανονικοί άνθρωποι,HOMO SAPIENS.
Κάπως έτσι,σαν την αρχή του απείρου....
I’ve been dismayed by how often my youthful memories are tarnished by a re-read, and I end up wondering if my taste as a young adult was all in my mouth.But I couldn’t resist trying The End of Eternity (1955) by Isaac Asimov again, partly because I remembered liking it so well as a teenager, but my memories of it were so extremely hazy (for the longest time, until a Google search saved me, I couldn’t even remember the title of the book, it was just “that really cool Asimov time-traveling book” in my head).
If you can roll with it, however, it’s a fun and interesting ride, with a few twists and turns that definitely make the story memorable.Initial review: I've been asking myself for ages, what was that time travel story of Isaac Asimov's that I loved when I was a teenager?
If you haven't read Asimov's SF classic, it's one of those time-travel stories where you can change the past.
The people with the time machines are a shadowy, infinitely powerful organisation called the Eternals.
Among other things, I discovered that Asimov claimed he got the original idea when he saw an ad in an early 30s newspaper, showing a picture that looked rather like a mushroom cloud.
It's so beautiful, and every word is so perfectly chosen, that it has a decent chance of surviving unchanged for thousands of years - maybe, even until people get around to inventing time travel?

We'll ignore all of these for now and focus on this standalone.About time travel in a kettle, kinda like Wells' time machine, only let's make a society of men, only men, living outside of time a-la Time Lords and have our MC be a pre-Doctor kind of character who's ACTUALLY willing to fall in love with a girl and is willing to DESTROY this little bubble of Eternity for her sake.
Eternals.What could have been a relatively average and not bad at all novel right HERE is then given the full Asimov twist and he turns it into a full adventure with deeper and deeper intrigue, reversals, surprises, reveals, and mystery.
Eserin ilk baskısını alıp adeta baştan çevirmiş ve okurken beni hayretlere düşüren işlere imza atmış.
Ondan dilimizde bir şeyler okumayalı uzun zaman olmuştu.
Asimov, tam da ondan beklendiği şekilde bir esere imza atmış.
Özellikle Harlan karakteri çok tipik bir Asimov karakteri.
Replikleri, cümleleri kuruşundaki takındığı tavır bunun bir yansıtması.Sonsuzluk, insanın zamanlara müdahalesi, müdahale etme hakkını kendinde bulması ve daha iyi daha kötü arasındaki ince çizgi üzerine sarsıcı bir roman.
Bana keyifli bir okuma sunan bu eserin hiçbir yeri o Vakıf'a umulmadık bağlantıdaki etkisini geçemez.Sonsuzluk insanlığın en büyük hayali.
Asimov da bunun üzerinden ustalığına yakışan, ustalık işi bir kült esere imza atmış.
Kitap bir noktadan sonra o denli sürükleyiciydi ki, yüz sayfasını karanlıkta, otobüsün küçük televizyonunun ışığıyla okudum. Muazzam bir hayal gücü.
Figo, diremmo.Ok, è probabile che quella "piccola variazione" possa lasciare sul campo qualche morto teorico (più che morto dovremmo dire qualcuno che sarebbe dovuto nascere ma che a causa della nostra variazione non è mai nato).
Ma poco male, cosa non si fa per l'Umanità.Ecco, dicevo: figo.La complicazione inizia quando cominciamo a capire che queste previsioni e queste piccole variazioni qualcuno le dovrebbe fare.
Qualcuno che sapesse valutare bene gli impatti di queste "piccole variazioni" di cui parlavo.Perché complicazione?
Perché chi avesse la capacità di fare queste cose avrebbe più "potere" degli altri individui.
Nutshell: antisocial nerd, responsible for historical amendments to spacetime continuum, dicks it up for everyone in order to lose virginity.Eternity is an interdimensional NGO, set up in the 27th century (32), initially to carry on intertemporal trade (43), which trade was promoted as its primary purpose.
Strikes me that determinism is the default position when the premise of the story is that changes initiated by the managers at one point alter later effects.
Es genial, Asimov no deja un cabo suelto. Hasta las cosas que no me terminaban de cerrar tuvieron su explicación.La lectura es muy adictiva. ¡Si les gustan las historias de viajes en el tiempo, tienen que leerlo!
Ironically, this is his first book I tried to read, in Malayalam translation, no less!
I am glad I did, because I could read the original afresh.This story is about a group called Eternals who travel outside of linear time, stepping in when required within the time-stream to make things "better for humanity".
I don't remember much other than the main character almost meeting himself as he enters the time-stream from different points.
If I get chance, I would like to go forward and meet my older self, just to know how I made out.
Le navicelle in questo caso son cronoscafi, macchine capaci di andare avanti e indietro nel tempo, nei secoli dei secoli.Un mondo in cui esiste l'eternità, e c'è una casta, gli Eterni appunto, tutta declinata al maschile, di figure preposte alla tutela di essa.
Casta quasi sacerdotale, completamente dedita al presidio del perdurare dei secoli.Ci sono i tecnici, i calcolatori umani e i manutentori, uomini sottratti alla vita normale, opportunamente istruiti per scegliere i mutamenti minimi necessari per la tutela dell'umanità.
Che con uno sguardo teoricamente super partes progettano vite, deviano i corsi di esse, manipolano destini, decidono di sacrificare pochi per il 'bene' di molti.Togliendo di fatto la possibilità di scelta, pilotando l'umanità intera come massa di burattini.
Cartea asta mi-a adus aminte de ce îmi place Asimov atât de mult, pentru mine e una dintre cele mai strălucite opere ale sale.
Zeci de secole în viitor: evoluția umanității este corectată de Eternitate, o organizație care există în afara Timpului și poate modela realitatea prin implementarea unor măsuri atent analizate în momente strategice ale istoriei.
Asta îl împinsese pe om să perfecţioneze de zeci de ori zborul spaţial, să călătorească iarăşi şi iarăşi către lumile moarte ale unui sistem solar, în care numai Pământul era leagăn al vieţii?
And upon this small rebellion, our story turns.An interesting mystery is that the Eternals are shielded from being able to visit the future beyond a certain point.
My next read is Hominids (a book I've been wanting for ages which I received as a birthday gift) which imagines a parallel universe where Neanderthals did not die out or intermix with homo sapiens and eventually became more technologically advanced than we have during the same time period.
I'd love to see a far distant future as imagined by Asimov.
I mean, as critical as a '50s dude from sexist academia could deliver?
It partly serves as a polemic against critics of the space program (I smell a colleague confrontation brewing, Asi), partly an effort to challenge the '50s male view of, ahem, "girls," but mostly just a lame time travel romance with a pretty cool twist ending (almost exactly the kind my cynical self always hopes will happen in romance stories but never does).
BUT, is this the very first time a time travel story employs magazine ads as communication between eras?
If so, that's pretty cool!
Ufku iki katına çıkaran bir kitap bence :D Vakıf serisinden önce okunabilinir.
El planteamiento del libro es realmente alucinante y de una originalidad increíble.
Muy bien hilvanados todos los acontecimientos de principio a fin, con un desenlace genial, aunque un poco previsible.
De muy fácil lectura y comprensión a pesar de los tecnicismos.
Sin embargo, no puedo darle una puntuación tan alta como merece la historia porque realmente odié al personaje principal, Andrew Harlan.
Un tipo anodino, inseguro, irritable, contradictorio en su accionar, pesimista y egoísta, que cayó como un tonto en cada una de las manipulaciones de las que fue objeto (a pesar de su “inteligencia”).
Redondísimo. Bello. OBLIGATORIO.
4.0 to 4.5 Stars. Superb Asimov story and his best novel not set within the Foundation and Robot Universe.
What a story!One of the things I like most about Asimov's SF is how small and insignificant it makes you feel when it speaks about millions of inhabited planets spread across the galaxy.
This book makes me feel insignificant again, but in an uniquely different way as it speaks about life on earth alone divided into 'centuries' of time, in a way similar to having thousands of different planets.
The 'Eternals' who traverse and curate these chunks of time eventually find the flaw in their own methods, and following a theme that exists across many of Asimov's stories, let the uncontrollable imperfections of humanity that make it human win.A must read for Asimov fans.
Less than 200 pages.
The same material nowadays would be expanded to at least 600 pages or probably a trilogy.
(And fighting for frontiers) or ‘short term’ safety vs risk and long term growth.* Everything that happens is intricately played out according to the central plot driverI suppose because SF writers feel obliged to provide ‘characters’ and ‘texture’ and ‘a character journey’ this sort of stripped-down relating of plot and ideas wouldn’t be written now.
Sure, characters and all that stuff is good, but there’s an attractive clarity of purpose to this book - especially when the plot becomes increasingly complex as the story progresses.
The End of Eternity depict a future in which the crowded inhabitants of Earth have moved Underground while their cultural descendants and rivals, the Spacers, glory in a galaxy of naked suns. The conflict between the two contrasting versions of humanity's proper course forward by no means always in favor of the expansive but caste-ridden, superstitious Spacers affects his fiction from "Nightfall" on would fuel the Robot novels.
I am a huge fan of time travel, particularly when it's done well.
Long before we learned how to harness the pathways of time and to make the proper adjustments to each time reality, Asimov bequeathed to us this incredible novel that postulates a world where there me travel exists in a corridor known as Eternity and the Eternals, who live in this narrow corridor, travel tens of thousands of years in something like Wonka's giant glass elevators.
But, Asimov doesn't stop there with time travel tourism.
And how does he protect this young lass from time adjustments that just might wink her out of existence?
আমার ইংরেজী বই পড়ার হাতে খড়ি হল আইজযাক আসিমভের রোবটস এযানড এমপায়ার পড়ে। আর ইবুক পড়ার হাতে খড়ি হল এই এনড অফ ইটারনিটি পড়ে। বইটার সমপরকে পরথম জানতে পারি মুহামমদ জাফর ইকবালের ছেলেমানুষী বইটিতে। সেখানে কোন একটা গলপের এক চরিতরের মুখে উচচারিত হয় - 'আইজযাক আসিমভ। দারূন লেখেন না? উনার এনড অফ ইটারনিটি পড়েছিস?' (এরকমই কিছু একটা) আমি তখন মাথা নাড়িয়ে জানাই না পড়ি নি, সিদধানত নেই - না, পড়তে হবে।এরপর সারা নিউমারকেট ঘুরে বইটি পাই নি। আমার মনে আছে, থারড ইয়ারে ডেডিডসন কেনার কথা বলে আমমুর কাছ থেকে টাকা নিয়েছিলাম।
উনার এন্ড অফ ইটার্নিটি পড়েছিস?' (এরকমই কিছু একটা) আমি তখন মাথা নাড়িয়ে জানাই না পড়ি নি, সিদ্ধান্ত নেই - না, পড়তে হবে।এরপর সারা নিউমার্কেট ঘুরে বইটি পাই নি। আমার মনে আছে, থার্ড ইয়ারে ডেডিডসন কেনার কথা বলে আম্মুর কাছ থেকে টাকা নিয়েছিলাম। সেই টাকা নিয়ে বই না কিনে এই বই কেনার জন্য খুঁজতাম। তখন ২০০৮ সাল, ইংরেজী বই এর এত দোকানও চিনতাম না। সেই ডেভিডসন আজও কেনা হয় নি, সেই বই ও কপালে জোটেনি।আসলে বই টিকে নিয়ে আমার উচ্ছ্বাস মাত্রাতিরিক্ত। জানি না কেন, কিন্তু আজিমভের কোন বই এর কথা মনে আসলে প্রথমে এটা, এর পর নেমেসিস আর তার পর ফাউন্ডেশনের কথা মনে হয়। কাহিনী সংক্ষেপ পড়ে রোমান্টিক মনে হতে পারে, কিন্তু আসলে এই রোমান্টিক এ্যাংগেলটাও কাহিনীর প্রয়োজনে, কাহিনি এই রোমান্টিক এংগেলের প্রয়োজনে না। সায়েন্স ফিকশন পড়ুয়া মাত্রই জানেন, টাইম -ট্রাভেল আর বাটার ফ্লাই ইফেক্ট - এই দুটো কত মজার আর আজিব এক ব্যাপার। মুহাম্মদ জাফর ইকবালের বই পড়েছেন আর - আমি যদি অতীতে গিয়ে আমার পূর্বপুরুষকে মেরে ফেলি তাহলে আমি কিভাবে জন্মাব ?
Officially my favourite book read in 2016!
4.9 Asimov. Uno de esos autores de los que siempre has oído hablar.Autor reconocido por su trilogía  “Fundación”  o por sus relatos sobre robots como  “Yo, robot”  .Decidí que probaría la pluma del autor con “El fin de la eternidad” un día este pasado agosto tirada en una cama y cotilleando pertenencias ajenas. Entre ellas encontré este libro y cuando leí sus sinopsis supe sencillamente que ese libro debía leerlo.Y como lectora maniática, solo podía ser en una edición. Cualquier edición que no
Entre ellas encontré este libro y cuando leí sus sinopsis supe sencillamente que ese libro debía leerlo.Y como lectora maniática, solo podía ser en una edición.
Solo a partir de el nacimiento de la Eternidad comienzan a pasar cosas tan locas como las que hay durante todo el libro, doy fe de ello.Esto es sin ningún spoiler lo que es Eternidad.Nos encontramos bien, con el protagonista Andrew Harlan.
Puedo contar con los dedos de una mano los libros que se me han hecho cortos en toda mi vida como lectora, y este ha sido uno de ellos.
That first chapter stayed in my mind long after I'd forgotten the title, but in a commitment to find out what happened next, I finally sniffed out this Isaac Asimov book and read the rest.Naturally, an impression such as that was never going to live up to my expectations.
That's not the only thing he failed to predict and it seems pointless criticising him for any of it, in a way.The plot got a bit complex halfway through and I'd stopped focusing on the nit-picky details after a while, because this is a story after all.
A few years ago I read The Never-Ending Days Of Being Dead by Marcus Chown, which blew my mind.
Pretty much through the entire series I kept thinking of this book, because Steins;gate really seemed like a m0dernized version of the story.
I remembered really enjoying this book when I was in high school, but that was twenty years ago, and early 70s sci-fi usually leaves much to be desired in this day and age.
If you would like a pretty cool time travel story with a lot of interesting ideas, and don't care that it, in no way comes close to passing the Bechdel Test, you may enjoy this book.
If you're looking for a time travel story with actual characters in it, skip The End of Eternity, and go watch Steins;gate instead.
Asimov scrive nel 1955 l’unico suo romanzo ambientato in un universo dove non esiste il viaggio spaziale.
In La fine dell’eternità l’uomo ha però sviluppato una tecnologia che gli permette non solo di spostarsi nel tempo, ma anche di controllare la storia dell’umanità.
La natura di quest’eternità ipercontrollata si mostra rapidamente come distopica, collocando le avventure dei protagonisti in un mondo dove il delirio di onnipotenza di una casta di controllori del tempo tiene segretamente in scacco il destino dell’uomo.
Avventura e mistero sono manipolati da Asimov per tenere a bada il rischio di paradossi e controllare un universo narrativo particolarmente complesso, con risultati conturbanti ma non eccezionali.
