https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23910.The_Complete_Illuminated_Books
I began seeking out the illuminated books of William Blake almost as soon as I was introduced to his poetry around 1983 or 1984.
There are icons in his illuminated books that are so simple that an untrained person could do something similar and then on the same page or in a Bible illustration he would create something that requires the craft of a great artist.
Each diatribe would end with a list of contact numbers where a person could report information if they saw the RoboCop in our area.
I may have passed my eyes over every page of this extensive volume, but I imagine my perusal of Blake must continue on into the Future, until someone will tell me what exactly he thinks a Polypus is, or what makes a thing or person be described as Vegetating, or how it came to be that Couches feature so prominently in his otherwise quite natural works.
O Rose, thou art sick!The invisible wormThat flies in the night,In the howling storm,Has found out thy bedOf crimson joy:And his dark secret loveDoes thy life destroy.One of my favorite poems in the world. What would life be without the Romantics? I shudder to think.
To make such satisfactions open to the widest possible public the Trust has re-assembled all the plates included in the six volumes of the Collected Editions into the present single volume; now, for the first time ever, all the Illuminated books are available in colour in concise and convenient form." (6)From David Bindman's Introduction: "Blake's distinctive achievement in the Illuminated books derives ultimately from his ability to create a unity out of the potentially fragmentary aspects of his life, by refusing to be confined within the professional compartments of printmaking, painting and poetry.
To really understand Blake you have to read it with the original illuminations. Get your hands on the largest format you can find. I visited the NYC Library almost everyday for almost a year as they turned one page a day of an original. Great poetry, great art.
William Blake just cracked open my brain and poured in the entire universe.I looked through this book mostly for the artwork, since a lot of the plates are somewhat difficult to read.
It's the entire human experience expressed in mythological art.
Is this the law of JesusThis terrible devouring sword turning every wayHe answerd; Jesus died because he stroveAgainst the current of this Wheel: its NameIs Caiaphas, the dark Preacher of DeathOf sin, of sorrow, & of punishment;Opposing Nature!
It is Natural ReligionBut Jesus is the bright Preacher of LifeCreating Nature from this fiery Law,By self-denial & forgiveness of Sin:Go therefore, cast out devils in Christs nameHeal thou the sick of spiritual diseasePity the evil.
PRETTY pictures.
And wonderful pictures.
And awful pictures.
I mean that in the clearest origin of the words: awe full and wonder full, ok?
For my personal study of how I am not able to draw, or perhaps might alter what I have done already, like a touchstone, since it's impossible to imitate; therefore infallible.
Like I would like to give props to Flannery O'Connor for popularizing delightful biblical phrases for a certain set of educated, secular, modern americans.
I've never read the bible, nor had a reference for it, but for Flannery O'Connor and the like.
A delectable book in terms of design and illustration. Blake still had the need of drawing from his poem's scenes. His was a case like that of Rossetti, who also paint and wrote on a same theme. I still wonder which thing was first. I agree with some comentaries, that this is not exactly a book to approach Blake's poetry, there are other books for that purpose.
If you have any interest in William Blake, this should be a default choice for reading. It takes some of his best prints and provides them for the reader at home at (mostly) 1:1 scale. By doing so, the book enables the reader to better appreciate Blake's artistry and attention to detail. Also, it gives his poetry the physical context of the page which collected volumes sorely lack.There is an online source, free of charge, that gives you visual access to the poems, but having them physically and of their original size, I feel is much more valuable.
My idea of sheer beauty through words and pictures in one book.

Astounding publication...been getting into Blake quite a lot in recent months, and I finally decided to get his complete works, all in one volume.
This softback is A4 in size, heavier than some hardbacks, and contains not only every original page Blake wrote, painted and printed but the full texts as well (since his own handwriting, while meticulous, is heavy-going on the eye for long periods).
If he was around now, Blake would have a legion of followers and be the head of his own religious cult (though I doubt he would have wanted such responsibility).Some creators, sad to say, do only live posthumously, and that's the only downside to this book - the realisation that his incredible works were barely read or seen in his own lifetime.
Erdman's analysis of each plate of illustration or text is superb, but the book itself is in black and white only, a shame because Blake was a wonderful colorist.
However, all is not lost because the large reproductions of Blake's works (which I've also reviewed) are in color and you can compare these larger colored plates with Erdman's analyses.
These are not, to me, booksI can ever say I'm done reading, as I take in no more than a few plates at a sitting at which I'm working with the Damon, Erdman, and Blake books side by side.
It's a large book with plates of all of Blake's books and etchings.
I found it wonderful with the explanations in the Damon Dictionary and Erdman's plate by plate analysis.
Although Erdman is also a complete work, the plates are not in color as they are here, and the plates are far smaller.
I find myself comparing the two, plate by plate.
All of these Blake books are of the sort that one never really finishes.
One studies a plate or more at one time, then puts it down and comes back to it later, all three at each sitting.
Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience are absolutely fantastic, but absolutely need to be read in context with their illustrations. Blake engraved every one of his poems and the text is continually interacting and engaging with its engravings. Interestingly, Blake was wholly irrelevant during the Romantic period and sold only a handful of copies of his work. It is only in recent history that scholars have included Blake in the romantic literary canon, where he is now impossible to ignore.
I think William Blake created some of the most visually remarkable works of literature EVER. Finding his art in museums was one of the most meaningful things I did in England. I rated this book a 5 because of the artwork, and some of writing as well. However, I can't say I enjoy all of his writing because I just really don't. Even when I don't care for what he is saying, I still linger and enjoy what is on the page because it is so incredibly beautiful.
I ordered this some time ago (months in fact) as part of some research i'm doing for a project but when it arrived i was amazed at its quality. the prints are beautiful and, although i was familiar with a lot of the poems and writings, when you combine them with the illustrations its fascinating and brings a whole new depth to the text. if you have any interest in Blake and his works, i would recommend this whole-heartedly!
A great collection of Blake's illuminated works, complete with transcripts. The only thing I'd change (aside from adding some more explanations/analysis of each work) is to make all the plates large enough to read and to match the size of the paper. As is, they're printed at their original size, which in some cases takes up less than half the page and is hard to read.
"Lo! to the vault of paved heaven, with sorrow fraught thy notes are driven, they strike the ear of night, make weep the eyes of day, they make mad roaring winds, and with tempests play." The combination of Blake's vivid, manic poems and watercolors is a multimedia extravaganza. Gesamtkunstwerk 4-ever!
I've got a copy of this amazing edition and I'm mesmerized by the beautiful beautiful production. This is definitely a must for every Blake fan! The album size paper allows you to enjoy both the artwork and the written-work of this complicated and symbolic writer, in a way which redefines the concept of poetry reading. Wonderful book.
Blake is insane, that's for sure. He leaps back and forth over the line of genius/madman like no one else. The illuminated books are intense. Reading his works in his own handwriting coupled with his illustrations gives them a great and unique power. He creates an entire mythical world in these works, much of which is tricky to wrap one's brain around, but I enjoyed trying.
Do you know where The Doors got their name from? Or from where Aldous Huxley stole his title The Doors of Perception? Willy Blake! In middle school, we sang "The Tyger" and "The Lamb" in choral...and "The Tyger" especially stuck with me. I love it. So in college, when I learned more about Blake, I fell in love all over again and ended up writing my thesis about him.
Blake isn't my favorite Romantic, but this is a stunningly beautiful collection of his illuminated manuscripts. It's definitely worth a look if you're interested, and worth owning if you're a Romantic(ist)-type person.
A wonderful work, lavishly illustrated and with all the texts also in normal typescript to make it a easier reading.After reading Peter Ackroyd's biography about Blake i took this one from the shelf again and it spoke even more to me than before.
Blake produced such interesting works of art. As a printer/writer, I really think if you are going to study his work, you ought to look at the original printing. Though it's fascinating, Blake really had his own mythology and it's a little bit out there, even as myths go, and kind of dark.
Blake's prose coupled with the illuminations offered her are spine chilling and often angelic. A veritable bible for the soul...If you are not already prone to madness. A must have for your library. And if your not into poetry...WHEEE...cool pictures!
If you are going to read Blake then this is a must-have. for it is a reading beyond mere words, and art beyond pictures. Blake fuses vision and word into a transcendental art that burns itself into the brain as he did his art into the copper plate.
This one's not exactly reviewable as it's more of a reference book. I wanted to get an idea of what Blake's work was all about - he really was a man out of his own time as far as his religious views went.
Ah Sun-flower! weary of time,Who countest the steps of the Sun:Seeking after that sweet golden climeWhere the travellers journey is done. Where the Youth pined away with desire,And the pale Virgin shrouded in snow: Arise from their graves and aspire, Where my Sun-flower wishes to go.
Extraordinary
