https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13368.James_Joyce_s_Ulysses
This book seems to be mostly a series of long quotations from the novel, which I’m sure were worth including initially since this book was published before Ulysses was available to most readers due to censorship, but it’s repetitive, and Gilbert often doesn’t add much to the text of the novel itself.I try not to get too upset by male chauvinism from other eras (this book was first published in 1930), but it was so blatant here that I can’t avoid a mini-rant.
Talk about understanding ‘feminine psychology’!I’m glad Gilbert and his buddies seem to have figured out how all women think, apparently just by unlocking the feminine mind with Molly Bloom’s magical key.
Written in collaboration with James Joyce, this book is an excellent guide to Ulysses. Gilbert was intimately familiar with the text and his direct access to Joyce make this a unique contribution to Ulysses-related works.Highly recommended!
Gilbert got his tips straight from the Joyce's mouth while contributing to a French translation of Ulysses, so it’s really fun to speculate about how long the world would have had to wait for that extremely enlightening Odyssey-episode title/Organ/Art/Symbol/Technic schema if Joyce hadn’t just told him.
He dwelled on things that seemed relatively tangential, while glossing over others that seemed more central.
Ulysses is one of those few iconic books that is discussed far more than read [see Tristram Shandy, Fairie Queene, Finnegans Wake, In Search of Time Lost, and a few others].
This is the tragedy of James Joyce's classic work, Finnegans Wake is in a class all its own, of experimental/analytical literary fiction.
Nothing new may be said of this book here, this anti-novel.
What may be said is that it is NOT impenetrable; the book is not beyond the average reader; the book IS enjoyable, and Ulysses is well worth the read.
This is a book that takes time.
Stuart Gilbert made the first official translation of Ulysses into French for James Joyce (which Joyce personally edited and is still the version published by Folio here in France) and was a close collaborator and friend to Joyce.
I found this book full of insights into what Joyce's intentions and inspirations were.
Ulysses is quite a beast to conquer for the first time (I have read it 4 or 5 times), and this book as well as a few others is a great companion.
I am not one for play-by-play Cliff Notes and this is more of a biography of Ulysses than a skeleton key.
Joyce was so cheeky - first he writes a difficult novel, then he gets his mate Gilbert to write an explanation of it and gives him so much information he may as well have written it himself. So this is kind of the official interpretation. Which hasn't stopped the serried ranks of Joyce scholars coming up with different theories. After all, what does the artist know about his own stuff? Nothing!
Worth it for the discussion of The Saponiad: an account of the deeds and misadventures of the bar of soap that Bloom carries around in his pocket.
This book has its helpful moments, but you have to wade through Stuart Gilbert's chauvinistic, priggish snobbery to get to it.
While I am well-aware Joyce's portrayals of women are complex (a polite way of saying that they have their issues) Gilbert's reading of the text is so unabashedly sexist that it appears his own blinkered worldview blinded him to Joyce's subtler critiques of the woman's position in Irish Catholic Ireland in 1904 (and post WWI) alike leading him to make one of the most reductive readings possible of the novel's (in)famous final chapter that focuses on Molly Bloom.
A great help when reading Ulysses.
In the first half of the book, Gilbert has several essays about the themes and style in Ulysses.
In the second half, there is a chapter devoted to each section of the novel.
Gilbert does the best job at making the connections to The Odyssey, explaining what parts of the chapter harken back to the original epic poem.
I gave this 4 stars instead of 5 because sometimes the formatting and length of quotations makes it harder to read.
Especially when I have just read Joyce, I'm not sure I need it quoted back to me so extensively.
An insightful (and at times, much needed!) companion to Ulysses. Gilbert gives a thorough and articulate overview of the meandering plot and alluding references throughout the novel, pointing out parallels, symbols, and allegories that inspire contemplation.
Read this concurrently with my first reading of Ulysses. Gilbert published this when the actual text he was commenting on was not widely available, and so half or better of this book is excerpts from Ulysses. While there were some points to his commentary that I felt were helpful to me, overall I didn't think it provided the depth I needed for this first reading. I'm sure there are better, more up-to-date guides, and if I ever pick up Ulysses again, there's a good chance I'll seek them out.
On the one hand, one can't help but value its key role in the history of Joyce scholarship.
One such observation was his persuasive argument that the section of the "Oxen of the Sun" chapter which is universally described as a satire of Tacitus is no such thing.
Still, its crucial role in the history of Joyce scholarship must be acknowledged and appreciated.
I think there are better and more contemporary companion books to Ulysses than Gilbert's treatment, which I found somewhat helpful but also somewhat "too much" across the board. The scholarly tone tends to take much of the fun out of Joyce's work, and some of the more recent companion books openly acknowledge the great humor in Ulysses, where Gilbert is looking for the academic gem. Still, I would not have understood certain Irish historical references or Catholic jargon without his help, and for that it's worth having at hand, especially in the absence of other guides.
At times overblown and fusty, and prone to flights of fancy that come out of nowhere, piles metaphor on top of metaphor, while sticking quite close to a literalist mapping of every single parallel between Ulysses and the Odyssey. Still, I thought this was quite a nice thing to read alongside Ulysses and it saved me the trouble of feeling like I constantly had to Google references. GIlbert's use of French, Latin, and German with the expectation that readers would not need it to be translated into English made me feel a little undereducated, but... no matter. It was fun.
Obviously essential for every Joycean. Has its share of gems. Of course it's troubling when a writer tells you what his book means, or in this instance assists another writer in telling you what his book means, episode by episode, page by page, symbol by symbol, incident by incident. Certainly emphasizes the depth of the Homeric references, which I now appreciate more than I did before. Easily readable (except when it sometimes slips into Greek, Latin, French, Italian, or German) and no doubt of most use for neophytes to Ulysses.
This may have been a literary classic, but when the story is so difficult to comprehend even in consideration of the supporting analytical commentary, it is an indication that the book has past its time. Having read this book, I now have a good insight into what my novel would subsist of, should I write it entirely under the influence of a heavy narcotic. A day's account of two people could not have been told more cryptically, for this alone, it could not be a classic in my eyes.
Word was that Joyce spoon fed this stuff to Gilbert, but what the heck. How else can you figure out who Bella Cohen is supposed to be in the Odyssey? And if Joyce was merely pulling our legs, it's all good craic.
One of the three valued books I had with me to decipher Joyce's puzzle.
Bloom needs to lead himself back, out of self-deception, fantasy, and frustration to Molly’s (and his marriage) bed.Bloom’s travails come in the Circe chapter and it is imperative (for Joyce) that as readers, we recognize Joyce’s change from Homer's Odyssey - this is Joyce's major rework, deviating from his Greek predecessor.
Stuart Gilbert is, without a doubt, a huge Joyceophile. A number of times in the introduction, he likens Joyce to God and Ulysses to a gift from God. This colors the rest of the study as it seems rather a defense of Joyce and Ulysses than an actual study. Nevertheless, it does shed some light into one possible way to interpret the inaccessible labyrinth that is Ulysses.
Incredible, extraordinary, phenomal - the only way to describe the number one book of all time.
A limited perspective, kind of a bore, though the schema is obviously pretty nifty. The Joyce Project was far more useful to me.
Overall, I would say Gilbert accomplishes this handily in his introduction, but he comes up short in his commentary on the separate episodes.
The introduction which is thankfully a quarter of the book's total length is thoroughly illuminating when read before the novel.
The information given on themes and the relations between the novel and the Odyssey and those between the Irish and the Achaeans, motifs, and narrative structure is invaluable for the serious Ulysses reader.
The saving grace is that almost every reader can still benefit from rereading a significant percentage of Ulysses, but this obviously is not to be considered a merit for Gilbert.
Have you read Stuart Gilbert's study of James Joyce's Ulysses?A wonderful resource for Joyce's daunting novel.
It provides a good thematic read in its account of the Ulysses narrative, its relation to the epic it draws from, and its overlying themes.
Gilbert, thankfully, has his eyes on the scope of the novel as a whole, which is often difficult to do oneself in reading Ulysses.
An antithetical study to Gilbert's might be in order, one that stresses Ulysses' humor and passion over its allusion and form.
Gilbert's book is the essential road map for voyaging through the epic Ulysses.
Each chapter in Ulysses is carefully analyzed in a parallel chapter by Gilbert.
If you want to truly comprehend Ulysses in all of it's subtle and arcane dimension, Gilbert is your guide.
I suggest reading Gilbert's chapter first, followed by exploring the Joyce chapter with knowledge and clues in hand.
Reading Ulysses was once a lifetime goal that I tried and failed to achieve on four occasions over 40 years.
A year later, I am returning to Ulysses, now a favorite place to dwell.
I guess the common excuse for this book is that it's an "early critical account" and so for some reason we're supposed to ignore its huge lapses in judgment, its gross sexism at several points, and its pseudo-scientific and astrological absurdities as somehow quaint.
Such a reading is really just condescending primitivism.
As far as I can tell, Gilbert was made an unwitting dupe to Joyce's PR strategy.
Viewed in that light, this book is an interesting read.
Gilbert's strained analyses and needlessly extended quotations make him a Haines to Joyce's Dedalus, a parallel any Haines-like figure is likely to miss the irony of...
Worth reading if you're interested in the Homeric parallels in Ulysses.
The information at times can seem highly esoteric and there are large passages of untranslated non-English text——somewhat off-putting for someone like myself who is currently operating with only a semi-functional understanding of English as it is.
Still, one can gleam some intersting tidbits just by skimming areas you're curious about.Some episodes play more to their Homeric references better than others, "Telemachus," "Cyclops," and "Circe" being a few.
Supposedly Joyce basically sat down and co-wrote this book with Stewart, so a lot of the information comes straight from the horse's mouth.
This book is very helpful if you're interested in parallels between Homer's Odyssey and Ulysses.
It's the only guide that Joyce helped with, so it talks a lot about the different symbols and techniques that go into each episode.
I gave the book three stars because first I find there are problematic assumptions about race and women throughout the text.
Secondly, the book quotes giant blocks of text, which can be frustrating and impede the analysis.
For the more casual reader, I would recommend Harry Blamire's The New Bloomsday Book, which is more helpful because it talks about what's really happening in the episodes and doesn't quote at length.
I stopped at page 50, when I could no longer tolerate the idolization of Joyce.
Yes, he wrote a very complex and innovative (and kind of fun) novel/anti-novel.
No, I don't think that anyone is justified in seeing it as faultless and always-intentionally meaningful.
Especially given the fact that the introduction to the edition I read went into great detail regarding the (supposedly) misguided edits made to the text (some of which Joyce himself corrected).
AND Attridge's casebook on Ulysses said that (contrary to the formatting of the "perfected" edition I read...) Joyce never meant for the chapters (or, to be more pretentious, "episodes") to be numbered.
This is the guidebook to Ulysses I refer to in my comments about that book. A very good place to start, this book was written in consultation with Joyce, and contains a lot of the accepted ideas about the structure of his epic and the special characteristics of each unique chapter, how they correspond to The Odyssey and so forth. Later scholars warn to beware of taking these ideas as the final word on the book, though. They suggest that Joyce, through Gilbert, might in some cases have been pulling our legs!
