https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26047.Rebellion
3.5 starsA pretty decent historical romance by Nora Roberts. I definitely like her thrillers and crime novels better. The characters are awesome actually - Serena is a powerful young woman and a kick-ass lady.Brigham is her equal in bad-assery and they definitely have a fantastic chemistry. I liked the supporting characters as well but unfortunately, the story dragged out a little bit. I skimmed a few chapters but the ending was quite good. Overall, I enjoyed reading this book and I love Nora's strong female characters.
TSTL alert! TSTL alert! Abort! Abort!When the guy you are in love with loves you back and proposes marriage, and you cry yourself to sleep, heartbroken, because you think yourself not good enough for him.When the same guy gets wind that he is about to be arrested for a political conspiracy, and instead of fleeing into the night, instead decides it is the perfect time to hang out at a club and get into a brawl in front of many witnesses, because that will surely not lead to his arrest.
This gives us the back, back story of the MacGregors and it's a great read and a real change of pace for Nora Roberts. Historical romance is not her usual thing but she does not disappoint. Set in Scotland in 1745 against the backdrop of Culloden, we get the first Serena MacGregor and her love story. It's fun to read about the ancestors of characters we've come to love. I highly recommend this book for lovers of the series but it can be read as a stand alone book. Enjoy, I did.
Bas lepo sto su u Blic zeni poceli sa ovim delom iako to nije prva Norina knjiga iz serijala; jeste malo neobicno za nju da se ovoliko oslanja na istorijske dogadjaje ali to uopste ne umanjuje lepotu njenog pisanja :D ; knjiga je naravno prelepa i jedva cekam izlazak nove knjige iduceg meseca.
MacGregors klanının tarihçesi idi bu kitap muhteşemdi..Nora Roberts'in kaleminden ilk defa bir histo
a refreshing story set against the bloody background of the historic Battle of Culloden.it was nice to read the war and remind me of the young bonnie prince charles stuart.
the jacobite rebellion was a very bloody war and it always touches me everytime i read about it.
but nora roberts did made a good job justifying the story.
with her page turner writing style and interesting scenes, you will soon be finished reading her book without noticing it and left with a satisfied imagination.since it was categorize as historical romance, there was still an air of love on the book between the feisty Scottish beauty Serena MacGregor and the english loyal supporter of prince charles Brigham Langston.i only read lawless and this one and im not sure if nora roberts has other historical fiction.
2,5*
I chose to follow the time line when starting this series.
So, although this was not the first book published in the MacGregor series, it starts at the beginning of the story.
When her brother allied with an Earl, Serena lets her temper get the better of her.
But, Lord Brigham was smitten with her despite her foul temper.This was really good story.
The story of the Rebellion, of two people vastly different coming together for love and for a common cause.
After the war finally starts, the war scenes dominated the last quarter of the book.
I loved Serena's personality.
Rena judges him preemptively and lashes him with her sharp tongue, and sometimes toes but Brigham conquers it all with sweet kisses and some hot love makin.The couple have insta love and attraction, and are not shy to act on it.The story moves forward several times, with their families experiencing both good and bad times- including war and death- and the tale ends at a sweet note of HFN (mainly because I'm hoping the legacy continues in other books).
Superb Storytelling of the Rising of 1745 and a Love That Would Not be Denied – A Keeper!It begins in 1735 when Serena MacGregor’s home in the Highlands is invaded by British dragoons and her mother is raped by their leader who wants to shame a Highland’s chief’s wife.
Ten years later, in 1745, her brother Coll brings home his friend, Brigham Langston, whose mother might have been a MacDonald but he is English.Serena means to hate Brigham but ends up falling in love.
I fell in love with Brigham whose heart beat to the Highlands though he was an English lord.
The MacGregors are a stubborn lot.
This Serena MacGregor is very prideful, stubborn, and passionate.
The perfect foil against Brigham Langston, who is also very stubborn, prideful and passionate.
(laughing) I love that Brigham takes pride in both of his heritages- the English and the Scottish and is on the side of putting the Bonnie Prince Charles back on his throne.
There is a battle scene in this book and I love how Roberts shows the agony, and the planning of war.
This is an excellent book, I recommend it for romance readers, and Nora Roberts fans.
I started/stopped reading this book so many times that I lost count. I just cant get through it and, as of now, Im officially giving up on it.
I started/stopped reading this book so many times that I lost count. I just can´t get through it and, as of now, I´m officially giving up on it.
I have read several books by nora roberts and this is very good a romance set in the time of the culloden uprising of 1745, about a womans hatred of the english, and her love for an englishman loyal to the scottish cause because of his grandmother, and how she learns to overcome her hatred of what he stands for and the love that eventually overcomes the barriers between them
The story of the beginning of the McGregor clan is wonderful. It's set in a time of discontent, with history weaving its way through the lives of all the characters. It's a beautiful love story, with revolution, war, politics and loyalty all affecting the lives, loves and decisions of the McGregors.
Rebellion as a truly amazing book. Filled with true love and romance, hate and vigor. I would give this book a 6 star rating. I fell in love with the whole story, which I believe was beautifully written and wonderfully told. The Characters had alot of passion and they were all about their clan. It kept me reading and wanting to read more about the Mcgregors.
Nora Roberts knows how to keep me interested and this book definitely did that for me. I grew up watching Lifetime movies and kept seeing movies that were originally Nora Roberts books so I thought I would give her stuff a try. I am addicted to her books now.
Algo que me ha fascinado es que no se centra tan solo en la historia de amor como pasaba en los otros libros (si que tiene un papel importante en la novela pero no es el único) sino que también habla de guerra, de luchar por los ideales, de defender el honor y de como los escoceses lucharon hasta la muerte por aquello en lo que creían.Probablemente no sea la mejor novela histórica sobre este periodo de tiempo, pero Nora Roberts siempre consigue fascinarme con su gran imaginación, su lenguaje y su prosa.
Superb Storytelling of the Rising of 1745 and a Love That Would Not be DeniedIt begins in 1735 when Serena MacGregor’s home in the Highlands is invaded by British dragoons and her mother is raped by their leader who wants to shame a Highland’s chief’s wife.
Ten years later, in 1745, her brother Coll brings home his friend, Brigham Langston, whose mother might have been a MacDonald but he is English.Serena means to hate Brigham but ends up falling in love.
I fell in love with Brigham whose heart beat to the Highlands though he was an English lord.
MacGregor ailesinin aşklarını okuduktan sonra tarihi aşk kitabını ve serininde yeni kitabı olduğunu görünce alıp okuyayım dedim ve kadının tarihi aşkı da çok güzel yazdığını gördüm.
Kadın tek kelimeyle mükemmel bir yazar.Karakterler arasındaki diyaloglar çok güzeldi.
Bir çırpıda biten ve bittikten sonra bir tatmin duygusu yaşatıyordu.Aşk sahnelerinin haricinde mağarada geçirdikleri zamanlarla ilgili satırlar çok hoşuma gitti.
Hele hamile Serena'nın bir elinde tabanca bir elinde kılıçlı okumak paha biçilemezdi.MacGregor ailesini okurken aslında kökenlerinin nerede dayandığını öğrenmek çok güzeldi.
Daniel'in meşhur İskoç kanını okumak cidden çok güzeldi.Seriyi seven ve tavsiye eden biri olarak bu kitabı da tavsiye ederim ki zaten Nora Roberts yazmış okunmaz mı?
But whatever, when you read a book by Nora Roberts you either like it or you think that it is far from your expectations.Rebellion tells us the story of Serena MacGregor and Brigham Langston.Serena/Rena is a fiery Scottish lass who, at the age of 8, wacthes as a bunch of English soldiers enter her house and attack her mother.
From that moment on, she learns to loathe the English "pigs".Brigham Langston is English and he is the best friend of Coll MacGregor, Rena's older brother.Since the moment he first saw her, he was captivated by her incredible beauty and wild spirit, though she seems to hate him because of his English heritage.But he doesn't let her sharp tongue stop him since he is in love with the woman.
Brigham Langston, Earl of Ashburn, was nothing but a hated English Lord to Serena MacGregor, and she swore that was all he would ever be.
Her fear had fed her hatred for the English for many years.
Their battle wages with boundaries crossed until no boundaries exist at all.
The heroine evoked an admiration that was born from the strength inspired from tragedy.
The reactions of the hero were truly entertaining.
Some very entertaining battles between the sexes.
A very sweet HEA, if not for everyone, at least for the hero and heroine.
Another Historical In the Nora Roberts Fashion! I love the history of the time in Scotland when Bonnie Prince Charles from the house of Stuart attempted to take his rightful place on the throne! This book is English and Scottish History which takes place in the year 1746' I believe! When I finished this book I found to my delight that she has written books about the clan probably in to modern day! Very ready to read her next book!
This is a good historical fiction, but falls really flat as a romance. Serena's mindless hatred of all things British goes on for much too long -Brigham was her brother's best friend, which should have counted for something, AND his grandmother was Scottish. My sympathy was all with the hero - I'm not crazy about a romance that goes directly from 'I hate you' to 'I love you' without even a pause for 'I like you'
Serena was A very bold girl and woman. The love in the story was wild. I hated the wars and know the Scots tried so hard.Serena was A very bold girl and woman. The love in the story was wild. I hated the wars and know the Scots tried so hard. . I hated the wars and know the Scots tried so hard.
Not LAST, I HOPE,This first "Historical" Romance ranks right UP THERE" with the contemporaries on Nora Roberts list of fabulous stories....and I want to read AT LEAST three more.....as "follow ups" to "Rebellion! Come ON, Msg. Roberts....keep ON with Scotland.....AND AErica,
Bir birleri ile olan kavgaları eğlenceliydi ama kitabın akışı biraz yavan geldi,yani bir şeyler eksikti.Yada çok beklenti ile okudum,bittiğinde bumuydu dedim...
I thought I had finished the MacGregor series and this book came out of the fold, ready to be the last one read, though completely out of order.
As usual with the MacGregors, and I suppose a lot of NR characters, the character flaws were a bit frustrating to deal with, though I actually thought Roberts managed to write a compelling story for the time period.
The ending naturally left me wanting more, though I think I'm ready to move on to another series now.
I love anything MacGregors. This clan has strong family values and don't take kindly to anyone messing around with them. Serena MacGregor is a strong woman and wonderful role model in this book. It was really captivating as I could not put it down, I believe I read the whole book in less than two days.
Things from the past causes love to be questioned. The battle for change and love will have you wanting to read more. Love, laughter and tears this family faces with pull at your heart strings. You well feel you are a part of them and will not want the book to end. Nora Roberts never lets me down.
Another Nora Roberts series I missed, The MacGregors. And again, what can I say? She writes with many twists and turns with great character development. Love her books as she usually ends all her books with a warm, fuzzy feeling. Looking forward to rest of series.
