https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131730.Church_Dogmatics_1_1
Here are the fruits of that labor, in case it will help you, dear reader:1.1 §1 "The Task of Dogmatics" pp.
71-99005: 1.1 §4.2-4.4 "The Word of God In Its Threefold Form" pp.
71-99005: 1.1 §4.2-4.4 "The Word of God In Its Threefold Form" pp.
125-162007: 1.1 §5.4-6.2 "The Nature of the Word of God" pp.
125-162007: 1.1 §5.4-6.2 "The Nature of the Word of God" pp.
162-198009: 1.1 §6.3 "The Word of God and Experience" pp.
198-227010: 1.1 §6.4 "The Word of God and Faith" pp.
248-275012: 1.1 §7.2-7.3 "The Word of God, Dogma, and Dogmatics" pp.
248-275012: 1.1 §7.2-7.3 "The Word of God, Dogma, and Dogmatics" pp.
Karl Barth's goal in this volume is to recover the proclamation of the Word of God as the place where God's message of salvation meets sinful man.
However, Barth's message did rework what we mean by “the Bible,” “The Word of God” and “Revelation.” Some of these re-structurings will cause problems to conservative Calvinists.
We further agree that the Bible cannot simply be defined as “the word of God.” Barth elsewhere notes that God's revelation is God himself, and as such claims Lordship over man.
I've worked my way through this first volume of Barth's Church Dogmatics by reading five pages a day.
His discussion of the threefold form of the Word of God (preached, written, and revealed) was insightful, as was his approach regarding the Trinity as the key of God's revelation.Naturally, a dogmatics as Reformed as Barth's will differ significantly in some places from my own, having adopted an Orthodox Christian approach toward the revelation of God. I still think, though, that there is much to learn and benefit from in Barth's work, and I look forward to my exploration of the rest of his magnum opus.
Spanning just shy of nine thousand pages over the course of fourteen volumes, Church Dogmatics is the go-to reference when it comes to Protestant theology; no matter how obscure the point you want insight on, Barth has probably analyzed it straight into the ground and back out the other side.
Riddle me that, Batman.)Despite my not being a Christian—despite, in fact, my decided antipathy toward the Church—I have long wanted to read the Church Dogmatics, simply because Barth actually found nine thousand pages' worth of material to address as regards the Church.
The first two volumes in Church Dogmatics deal with the doctrine of the Word of God. Among evangelicals, this is one of the more controversial areas of his theology, due to Barth's rejection of traditional evangelical teachings on inerrancy.
Given that I still have one more volume to go on Barth's doctrine of the Word of God, I'll hold off for now commenting on the controversial elements of his theology.
I'll definitely be revisiting what he says about proclamation and anyone who does any sort of preaching owes it to themselves and their congregation to read through what Barth has to say on the topic.
It is significant that Barth places the trinity in the prolegamma as the trinitarian ground of God's own being serves as the basis of God's self-revelation.
The God who reveals Himself is Trinity in Unity and Unity in Trinity.3) In speaking of the Trinity, Barth uses the term "modes of being" to describe the persons of the trinity.
Naturally Barth gets accused of being a modalist.
I was quite surprised that upon reading I found Barth much closer to Augustine than I ever imagined.
I found Barth empasizing the unity of the Godhead much more than the plurality of the Godhead that modalists tend to emphasize.
An excellent and inspiring exploration of the doctrine of the Word of God as it relates primarily to the nature of revelation and as revelation relates to the Holy Trinity.
Barth's focus on the sovereignty of God, among so many other things is masterful.
A broad knowledge of Patristics, Scholasticism, the Protestant Reformers, and 19th Century liberal and existentialist theologians is extremely helpful as Barth assumes his reader is familiar with historical theology.
The ability to read Greek and Latin is a must as well, since this edition of Church Dogmatics does not provide translations and the Greek and Latin texts are importan to Barth's writing.
Difficult.
Worked me hard, but that in itself was rewarding.
Barth's main theme is the 'apartness' of God and man.
He refuses to allow natural theology any space.
Revelation - a very Barthian word - is an absolute miracle of grace.
Many would say so, though I have to say Barth puts up a strong case for it.
But it wasn't this main thrust, but some of the side discussions I most enjoyed - in particular Barth's seminal and fascinating discussions on the Trinity (which he sees as the fountainhead of all Christian theology, because it is the essence of the revealed God).
Wow, I did it.
I got through one volume of Barth.
This is like jumping into the Pacific Ocean and naming all the creatures in the sea with God at you side.
The vision of Scirpture preached as God speaking in Word in Spirit is powerful and the outline of the Trinity as One God dancing in community is awe inspiring.
I did read some on occassion but mainly I skipped it and just tried to take in as much of this giants thoughts as I could.
I found him to be a man who spoke before his time to our very day.
It's a bit rough getting started, but if you get through the first hundred pages or so, Barth bursts out into some great stuff. Barth's Church Dogmatics is the first systematic theology that made me really love Jesus as I read his descriptions of the doctrine of the Word. Truly doxological. I would read portions of CD 1.1 as a devotional. And of course, I don't agree with everything he says, even though I think he's frequently misunderstood.
Obviously a classic. An essential read for all serious theologians, and especially any who would critique Barth. I might recommend the new T&T Clark Study Edition for those who don't read Latin. (Greek and French are also untranslated in the T&T Clark 1975/Hendrickson 2010 edition, but are less extensively quoted.)
This is just a great text in neo-orthodoxy. Karl Barth provides an answer to the problem of God's existence in a world captivated by materialism and realism. He is a fundamental break with 19th Century theology and this first volume covers the groundwork in which the rest of his Church Dogmatics takes place.
Incredible!
Enjoyed this immensely. My logos version translates the Latin giving English speakers access to all the material. Very learned. Many profound insights.
Jeepers.
Verbose doesn't even begin to explain.
Barth's notion of "experiencing the Word of God" is fascinating. As a professor of mine once said, no reading of Barth in unprofitable....
I found this too difficult to understand.
