https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/450864.Vet_in_Harness
Vet in Harness is the fourth book in the All creatures Great and Small series by James Herriot. This is such a delightful and ever so entertaining series. As we follow the Yorkshire vet on his daily rounds we the reader are taken on a fantastic journey and we get a glimpse into the long, stressful and rewarding days a vet endures.I thoroughly loved this book and I can't wait to read the next book in the series. Highly recommended.
I'm biased - I love EVERYTHING James Herriot wrote. He's truly one of my fave authors, and I think I like this book best because...he didn't make me weep in this one :) The narrator is the actor who played the good vet on the BBC production of All Creatures Great and Small, and he does a smashing job reading the books as well as his television portrayal of Jim Herriot.Luv.Just...Luv.
Loved all the James Herriot books.
My parents began to read them when I was maybe 10 or so and they would laugh out loud but I was far too cool to read what my parents did until one day I had a miserable toothache/earache and to take my mind off it I began to read one of this series of books.
I too ended up laughing and simply being transported away to a different time, yet with places that seemed comfortingly familiar.
(I'm from Yorkshire originally and was living there at this time.) I wrote my first ever fan letter to anyone, to James Herriot, and he replied!
I also loved how he began to write the books kind of from a dare from his wife!
One of my favorites since I was a child. I can read over and over again. The audio version is quite simply magical!
Loved it!
James is now married to Helen, as he carries on working as a vet around the Darrowby area of Yorkshire. This one does have the occasional laugh out loud moment, but I did miss Siegfried and Tristan a lot, as they don't make much of an appearance in this book. But James Herriot's writing is as superb as ever, and he draws wonderful images of the people and animals he encounters.
After reading from James Herriot's repertoire of heart-warming stories you are slipped into a pair of 1930s spectacles which changes your outlook, and makes you savour things you never knew where special.
Vet in Harness by James Herriot was another wonderful group of stories by a beloved author. It is the time before he goes into the service. I always feel I'd like to see the Yorkshire Dales when I read Herriot. I feel the wind in his words and the cold.
As good as ever. Lighthearted, entertaining, informative - an all round good read.
Warm, entertaining and such a pleasant journey. Always love whatever James Herriot writes. Looking forward to the next one.
Some of the ongoing themes are his documentation of rural life in Yorkshire during a time of social upheaval, the changing veterinary profession as new technologies arose, and his own lifelong love affair with the Yorkshire Dales.
I enjoyed the accounts of the veterinary life, but I also enjoyed the reflections on how time has changed the profession and the country he grew up in.
The great amount of heart and detail in them speaks to the real James Herriot's affection for his life and vocation.My editions of these books are venerable old editions that I acquired, probably literally half a lifetime ago, at a yard sale.
The fourth book in James Herriot's wonderful series, this book takes us from the beginning of his married life to when he is called up to join the RAF during World War 2. Although set during the war the book is chiefly about the many memorable cases he worked on rather than events in the wider world.
This book was quite entertaining to begin with but then towards the end I lost interest and skimmed over the last few chapters.It was different from what I would normally read.James Herriots writing is pretty good, easy to understand and funny in some parts.
Excellent writing style. "Real" people and animals are present in this book. The stories pull you in.
Many of these stories are the basis for the 1970's All Creatures Great and Small series produced by BBC. Herriot's style is rich with dry wit and human insights. This is a laugh out loud book.
James Herriot's humorous accounts of his experience in Darrowby makes my day anytime I read one of his books. He is an amazing writer!!
Short stories with a hint of nostalgia, and a whole lot of funny!
Indeed this is explained in the preface as the narrative was somewhat inconveniently interrupted by the outbreak of the war.That said there were the usual lighthearted themes; vengeful dogs, near death cattle and an awful lot of drink driving.
I'm not exaggerating here there is a silly amount of drink driving and not just hopping in the car after a pint but proper full on barely able to see paralytic drink driving.
It says a lot that it was not shocking at the time to affect the story or indeed socially unacceptable by the time the books were published.Not my favorite in the series but then they they are nice light reading so I will carry on.
what do you say about a book like this?
It certainly isn't a great book: the writing is mediocre and the short stories maybe don't quite knit together as a cohesive whole like Herriot's first one did.
And I couldn't think of anything better than a James Herriot book to do it!
Read it if you're down, or need to while away a few hours pleasantly, or just don't want to think to terribly much (and don't feel like the violence that is so often a feature of "escapist novels").
They still hold up as enjoyable reads.
The main characters are good hearted people and some of the anecdotes capture a way of life that has passed by (just about) in living memory.
The honest (if romanticised) memories of the first two books has been replaced by (I'd guess) publishers' demands to stoke the fires of collective nostalgia.
I'll continue reading them in the hope that he gets back into his stride.
The books are now fading from that collective memory.
With a good publisher and good editor (some of the prose is down-right clumsy) they may not have sold so well in their time but they could have left something more substantial behind.
I love these books, they are so easy to read, Herriot really paints a picture of Yorkshire Vet life.
Although I did enjoy it, I missed stories of Siegfried and Tristan in this one so it's not my favourite of the set.
However reading about James' many tasks, including coping with married life (Helen is wonderful) and buying items for their humble abode (Encyclopedias!), coping with dogs which hold grudges and trying to keep up with a fellow vet with a head for the drink.If you haven't read the books I advise you pick up the set right away, I promise you will be laughing within the first few pages.
As the first of three books I was passed by a former flatmate, I was surprised at how much I liked this. I'm not usually one for stories set in the country and very animal based, but this made a refreshing change and, taking train journey after train journey to and from Manchester, I lost myself in the pages easily enough. I didn't think I'd be able to recommend this, but, with it finished, I can. It's far from an exciting read, but it's not a bad one.
Funny and heartwarming stories about a rural vet that nothing I could say here would give you the remotest flavour of how wonderful and real these stories are so ignore everything I say and just go out an buy them and fall in love. Having said that, I wonder if I like them because I'm from the same part of the world and can identify with the characters and their exploits? Oh, the horror!
My last one of these for a while. This is the Dales in the shadow of the war, with the first sign of the antibiotics that will revolutionise farming. A definite must read, and I'm willing to admit the missing 5th star is probably due to the fatigue for reading the 1st four books in less than 2 weeks.
this book is about how a vet attending to his patients...though im not a animal lover i just picked up the book coz i did not get any better book to hold onto...anyways im unable to finish this book because of the sheer lack of interest it generates...but however for animal lovers this is a good book to go through and especially vet docs.
252 pages. I like this book a lot. I don't think that I have found a James Herriot book that I don't like. Every story is hilarious. James figures out every problem with all of the animals even without modern antibiotics. I would recommend this book to every animal lover.
MUY BUENO, pero a diferencia de otros tomos, algunas historias me parecieron repetidas, y el modo de narrarlos ensayado, menos espontáneo que los primeros que leí (1 y 2).Pero aún así UN GOCE DE LIBRO.
I agree with other reviewers that I really missed Siegfried and Tristan in this one. Additionally, I found there weren't as many laugh-out-loud moments in this collection of stories, but I sure did appreciate the addition of Granville Bennett. Not my favourite, but still worth the read.
James Herriot is married, a partner...what more could life ask for, in volume 4 of this hilarious series.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12302179
