https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34037113-the-rules-of-magic
"The Rules of Magic", is such a wonderful world to visit.
Most people avoided the Owens family believing any entanglement with them would taint not only their present but their future as well.
But -- oh how I loved this family who came from a long line of witches as far back as the year 1620 when Maria Owens was charged with witchery for falling in love ....
Flowers were everywhere at "The Summer of Love" gathering in San Francisco.You'll even visit the Monterey Pop Festival in 1967.....
I devoured this book....taking away wisdom-which brought me back to the 'magic' of our everyday lives.
If you don't read this book because you don't believe in witches or in magic, you would truly be missing out on a wonderful story that is about so much more.
If you don't read this book because you haven't read Practical Magic, the book to which this is a prequel, you'd be missing out .
I haven't read Practical Magic (although I intend to now), but yet I loved so much about this book .
It was the spell that Alice Hoffman's writing cast over me that made me accept who these characters are in spite of not really believing in witches.
How much did I love this book? I cannot even count the ways.Franny, Bridget (Jet), and Vincent Owens are siblings growing up in New York City in the late 1950s and early 1960s, raised by no-nonsense parents who discourage their children from exploring their uniqueness. Their mother Susanna knows that her children are different—headstrong Franny can talk to birds, beautiful Jet can read people's thoughts, and charismatic Vincent has been charming people to him since birth, and he uses that to hi
Their mother Susanna knows that her children are different—headstrong Franny can talk to birds, beautiful Jet can read people's thoughts, and charismatic Vincent has been charming people to him since birth, and he uses that to his advantage.Susanna has many rules she demands her children follow—no walking in the moonlight, no books about magic, no candles, no crows, and most importantly, never fall in love.
As they grow into adulthood, they must wrestle with the dilemma of embracing their identity and keeping love at bay, or risking it all for the magic and fire that love can bring?
It's a story of family, identity, self-discovery, embracing your fears, love, loss, and, of course, magic.
But- and this is going to really upset some people, because they wouldn’t be caught dead reading a love story- But, true love is at the center of the book, its very life force, and is at the very heart of everything that transpires.
Before reading this book, I felt I should touch base with PM, take a quick refresher course, if you will, to try and purge the movie version from my mind, just a little.I’m glad I did that because this book’s familiarity was like touching base with characters I had grown to care for.
It was clear from the start that they were not like other children, therefore Susanna felt she had no choice but to set down rules. No walking in the moonlight, no Ouija boards, no candles, no red shoes, no wearing black, no going shoeless, no amulets, no night-blooming flowers, no reading novels about magic, no cats, no crows, and no venturing below Fourteenth Street. Yet no matter how Susanna tried to enforce these rules, the children continued to thwart her. Do you ever read a wonderful book
If you read Alice Hoffman’s 1995 novel, Practical Magic, or saw the wonderful 1998 film adaptation with Sandra Bullock and Nicole Kidman, I bet you’d like to spend a bit more time with the Owens family.
- from the Foyle’s articleOnly twenty two years after the original, Hoffman has finally brought us back into the magical world of the Owens family, not Bullock and Kidman’s characters, but a tracing back of their elderly aunts, born in the 1950s and growing up in New York, with serious exposure not only to the Massachusetts house where they will end up, but in the allure that was Manhattan in the 1960s.
Life is too short for me to spend hours reading something I hate.
Other reasons I talked myself into reading it:-I liked a couple of non-magic-y books by Hoffman, the most recent being Faithful.-Occasionally (hardly EVER), magical realism works for me.-Long long ago, I actually liked magical realism.
Or maybe I could forget that they were witches?
Every single page was woo-woo.
Every single page.
I believe all the gushers who say that this is a great book.
Remember, my 1 star means that I hated it, not that it's a bad book.
"The Rules of Magic" is a Mystical, Whimsical, Fantastical and Heartbreaking Novel about the Owen family.
Siblings, Franny, Jet and Vincent, who are given simple, yet strange rules by their mother Susanna: no walking in moonlight, no wearing black, no wearing red shoes, no cats or crows, no candles and no reading books about magic.
In "The Rules of Magic" by Alice Hoffman, what you will learn, is that "There is no remedy for love, but to love more." We all strive for this, each and every one of us.
Even though this is not the Latin American brand of magical realism that I crave, The Rules of Magic still fit the bill as an enjoyable story full of supernatural occurrences in everyday life.Franny, Bridget (also known as Jet), and Vincent Owens come from a long line of Massachusetts witches and wizards dating back to 1620.
Meanwhile, Franny, Jet, and Vincent turn to floating on water in the otherwise dangerous Leeches Lake, assisting their aunt in preparing black soap, gathering herbs for potions, and choosing courage over caution, the Owens siblings come to terms with their magical selves.
I got an email one day asking if I was wanted to read this new book by Alice Hoffman.
I didn't even think, I just replied YES!The Rules of Magic is the 'prequel' to Hoffman's huge selling book and movie, Practical Magic.
I also loved hearing about NYC (always a favorite for me) and the books they read (The Magus, Maria Owens diary, The Scarlet Letter, and more).
John and his loathing for witches and magic is weaved beautifully into this story.If you love magical realism, this is the perfect read for you.
And if you love reading Alice Hoffman, then you must simply pick this one up.
With the perfect touch of magic✨✨This was a five star Traveling Sister Read!
I figured a book that had inspired such an amazing discussion was more than worthy of a five star rating!
but as I continued reading I got it the  MAGIC was in these amazing characters and the message of the book...
this isn’t to say that they didn’t have any supernatural powers, they just were subtle, just a touch of magic!The siblings Frannie, Jet, and Vincent had such an incredible bond....
Because really the real MAGIC is in these amazing well develop characters and the story of their remarkable life....
!! NOW AVAILABLE !! I'll tell you about the magic, and it'll free your soulBut it's like trying to tell a stranger 'bout rock and rollIf you believe in magic, come along with meWe'll dance until morning 'til there's just you and meAnd maybe, if the music is rightI'll meet you tomorrow, sort of late at nightAnd we'll go dancing, baby, then you'll seeHow the magic's in the music and the music's in meYeah, do you believe in magicYeah, believe in the magic of a young girl's soulBelieve in the magic
, which I have not read, so I can’t compare the two, but this was just magical, and I still feel a bit under its spell, wishing for more.Cursed.
When she was younger, Susannah had left it all behind, gone to Paris and returned to live in New York City, where she sits on this morning June, 1960 opening an invitation for her eldest daughter, Franny, to visit her Aunt Isabelle.
Still, there is one rule they all know, whatever you do, do not fall in love.
The writing is wonderfully descriptive, occasionally humorous, and filled with the magic of love, in all its many forms.
5 (un)magical, but magical anyway (magical in the best way) stars to The Rules of Magic ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ The Rules of Magic was not as full of magic as I expected it to be. At times, when discussing this with my friends, I was asking for more magic! What I found was that the real magic was in the life happenings of these notable characters and not in the magic itself. For the magic lovers, there was some. I would say it took the backseat in this story, which ended up working beautifully. Alice Hoffman
At times, when discussing this with my friends, I was asking for more magic!
Alice Hoffman introduced the three main characters at the same time early on in the book, and I found it hard to follow at first.
There were some deeper meanings to this story that I don't know if I would have processed fully without our group discussion.
These meanings made this book for me.
The ways in which the characters learned these messages were quite a journey, and one I don't want to spoil.
Discuss it with friends.
Maybe it will change your perspective, too.Thanks to the Traveling Sisters for another special read.
I think it's the magic thing- it's difficult for me to suspend belief, BUT, once I finally let go of that conception, the story was at last able to enter into a more fascinating and interesting realm for me.Because let's face it, Hoffman's skill is in her descriptive writing - successfully transporting the reader into a place far from the one they are inhabiting.
It's about extraordinary family relationships and about love.I didn't think this one was for me but I'm glad I stuck with it because it did magically deliver.
Of course they soon notice how different they are, exploring their talents in various ways until a horrible tragedy threatens to derail everything.Loved it, this book was just what I needed after reading This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen, something lighter, magical.
Ultimately, if I had to pick a theme, besides magic for this book, it would be love.
This book is full of love in all its permutations, messiness, wonder and heartbreak.Whether writing historicals, or contemporary, Hoffman has never failed to delight me with her characters, her word choices, and the ways she assembles her plots.
5 brilliant stars for this magically written story!
I absolutely loved everything about this book and savoured every single word that was written.
THE RULES OF MAGIC by ALICE HOFFMAN was a fantastic, endearing, and a spellbinding novel that was an absolute joy to read.
I absolutely love a little bit of magical realism within my books but I think there was so much more to this story than that.
The words written were just as magical as the magic within the story.
Thank you so much to NetGalley, Simon and Schuster Canada, and Alice Hoffman for the opportunity to read an advanced copy of this book in exchange for a review!
A heartbreaking journey into a family's history with lessons about what it means to be human.I expected a book with magic in the title, which also figured in its predecessor’s title, to have a whole lot of conjuring, spells and hocus pocus, so I wasn’t quite entranced when this turned out not to be the case.
All the while finding the courage to love more, not less.I wanted to subtract a star because I didn’t get my cauldron and eye of newt, but when a book makes me feel so deeply that I sit in contemplation long after turning the last page?
2.5In life and in literature, witches often get a bad rap and Alice Hoffman tried to change that with this book.In the heart of the story lies Owens siblings - Franny, Jet and Vincent - who are witches/wizards and suffer from a generation long family curse that entails any person who falls in love with them will die.They cope with high-school mean girls, apply to college, play music and oh yes, can hear each other’s thoughts, move furniture with their minds and are unable to sink in water.
But like every human being, the witches were doomed to lose the ones they love most.It had an endearing start and I enjoyed the smooth writing but as I read I come to realize that I find it difficult to connect with the characters and the plot.
Three siblings grow up knowing they are different than others.
Every book of Alice Hoffman’s is different.
This book is described as a prequel to Practical Magic, which I haven't read.
Usually I'm not one for magic and potions and everything else witchy.
Each one has a gift; the ability to read minds, clairvoyance, kinship with animals.
The one thing they are forbidden is love and it's the one thing they are all seeking.
In fact, the entire book is about love.
It's a bittersweet book.
My thanks to netgalley and Simon & Schuster for this truly magical book.
Fantastic + magical = FANTASTICAL!!!The  magic  of this book  RULES  !!!What may surprise many of you is that I normally would not choose to read a book about witches and/or magic.
But, seriously who didn't love 'Practical Magic' in book form &/or the movie?
Not to mention, this is the prequel to 'Practical Magic' after all these years.
A quirky cousin lends some interesting twists and plays a vital part to the overall story, as we follow them all the way to adulthood.
There's mischief and mayhem mingled with tragedy and sorrow with no shortage of magical moments while along the way they gain insight to an age old question regarding love.
I really like these kinds of books, they are a nice change from the norm.I have never read Practical Magic, which this book is the prequel to, but I plan to.
I liked all the characters in the book.I just want to say that I loved this author’s The Story Sisters more then this.Also if you like these kinds of books, I absolutely loved Garden Spells by Sarah Addison Allen, and Of Bees and Mist by Erick Setiawan!
But I wanted to give it a try because I’ve liked other books by Hoffman and because of a few enthusiastic reviews by GR friends.
What unfolds is a long melancholic saga about living on the margins of society with the burden of prescience and their family curse.
I find any fiction that contains magic or surreal elements challenging, but every now and then a book comes along that works for me.
For my part, I’ll try sticking with my instincts when it comes to books featuring witches or other supernatural elements.Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for an opportunity to read a complimentary copy.
We all loved the animals in this story that made such wonderful characters themselves with their bonded relationship with one of the siblings.
We all felt a strong message throughout this story of love more, not less in so many different ways and that brought out such a wonderful discussion amongst each other.
We savored our discussion reading experience as we talked about the joy, love, loss, sorrow, acceptance, courage and support we felt within this wonderful story.
A witchy romantic comedy that’s not particularly supernatural, romantic, or funny. More intriguing than Practical Magic but that’s not saying much. Maybe I’m not the right audience for these books.
Difficult Franny, with skin as pale as milk and blood red hair, shy and beautiful Jet, who can read other people’s thoughts, and charismatic Vincent, who began looking for trouble on the day he could walk.From the start Susanna sets down rules for her children: No walking in the moonlight, no red shoes, no wearing black, no cats, no crows, no candles, no books about magic.
Back in New York City each begins a risky journey as they try to escape the family curse.The Owens children cannot escape love even if they try, just as they cannot escape the pains of the human heart.
Excuse me while I cry my eyes out for the rest of the day 😭
5 shining ⭐s for this magical story!Do as you will, but harm no one.What you give will be returned to you threefold.Fall in love whenever you can." ~ from the Grimoire...”on the first page were the rules of magic.”The Rules of Magic is about so much more than magic ~ it's about love and whether we choose courage or caution. The book is so beautifully written that I didn't skip over one word. Alice Hoffman creates strong, eclectic characters, weaving in magic, and I wanted to savor it all. Like m
Like my copy of Hoffman's The Marriage of Opposites, this book is marked with so many beautiful passages....to share a few ::Her one salvation was the novels she read.
If there be none, never mind it.Life is a mystery, and it should be so, for the sorrow that accompanies being human and the choices one will have to make are a burden, too heavy for most to know before their time comes.And from Emily Dickinson ~ Unable are the Loved to die, for Love is Immortality.I simply loved everything about this book!
to the last Know that the only remedy for love is to love more.
She has 'rules' that she hopes will accomplish this: No walking in the moonlight; no red shoes; no wearing black; no cats; no crows; no candles; no books about magic.
For, in 1620, their ancestor, Maria Owens, put a curse on love for her family when she was accused of witchcraft by the man she loved.Then there comes a summer when they break all the rules.
Through her experiences at school, Franny has learned, "Other people's judgments were meaningless unless you allowed them to mean something." But uppermost in their minds: Are they doomed to never know true love or is there a way to break the curse and live happily ever after?
I'm not usually a fan of Alice Hoffman but this is, well, magical.
That was a lovely, lovely book.
In this prequel to Practical Magic, we meet the young Owens sisters and their brother, Vincent.
As we all know, parents can set down rules but children somehow always find ways to skirt those rules with sometimes disastrous consequences.Remember..never fall in love..and...of course they all do.
It causes them unhappiness and ultimate loss but it also provides them with the understanding of who and what they are.This loving, sad, and magical story makes one realize that you can't run away and hide from who and what you are.
This book is a beautiful story told in a most beautiful, heart warming way.
