https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48468.The_Violent_Bear_It_Away
Francis Marion Tarwater buries his great uncle (figuratively) and heads to civilization to meet his uncle, the school teacher Rayber.
The Violent Bear It Away is a tale of how one man's obsession took root in his entire family and ruined their lives time and time again, even after his death.I had high hopes for the young Tarwater after the old man cashed in his chips.
I don't know that I would have felt up to finishing it otherwise.The Violent Bear It Away is another feel good Flannery O"Connor tale of religion, revelation, and redemption.
Violence to Youth of Southern-Fried Fundamentalism I think it is safe to say that while the South is hardly Christ-centered, it's most certainly Christ-haunted.F. O'ConnorIf you were raised in the rural South or spent summers there with someone in a WASP family, perhaps you suffer the occasional nightmare, as do I from one summer staying with a cousin and being dragged a few times to a hyper-fundamentalist church, due to the trauma left by hellfire/brimstone sermons at an impressionable age (7
Her short stories and two novels either explored dark religious themes or were tinged with often morbid religious undertones.THE VIOLENT BEAR IT AWAY's title is taken from a verse in the Douay-Rhiens Catholic Bible at Matthew 11:12: "From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent bear it away."I'll forego delving into possible meanings of the title.
If you'd like to get a sampling of the deeply dark, morbid and haunting world of some Southern fundamentalist ol' time religion, read this book.
So when on page one of TVBIA a 14 year old boy is getting too drunk to dig the grave to bury his great uncle who’s just died right there at the breakfast table, in the shack, in the middle of the backwoods, and no one else for miles – I’m yellingAwright – let’s rawk…!Little did I know.THE CAST OF NUTCASESMain characters – Old Tarwater – a religious fanaticYoung Tarwater, brainwashed by Old, & hence, a very stroppy surly religious fanaticHis uncle George Rayber, a strict secularist who lives a painful ascetic life because he knows that if he relaxes his concentration for even a moment, he’s likely to turn into a religious fanatic tooBishop Rayber – a mentally challenged young boy, in plain language an idiot, the only main character who couldn't ever be a religious fanaticWHAT'S THIS DAMNED BOOK ABOUT ANYWAYThere’s a lack of agreement about the nature of this book.
“You have to quit confusing a madness with a mission.” ― Flannery O'Connor, The Violent Bear it AwayO'Connor was ruthless in her vision.
The struggle of Tarwater and his uncle Rayber against their joint destinies and the pull of fundamentalism and secularism is fully realized in this short novel.
'The Violent Bear it Away' is biblical, American, and absolutely brutal in both its imagery of destruction and language of redemption.
O'Connor can't be over-appreciated; she was an absolute genius of passion and power.
So brilliant and terrible was this novel, that I STILL exceedingly fear, tremble and quake.
If stories like this were still popular, this would be the only kind of book I'd write.
I love getting to know a character and then witnessing the dismantling of that character.
I like to see the way things work.
Books like this are why I became a writer.If you need a comparison, I can only place Of Mice and Men and One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest in the same boat as The Violent Bear It Away.
Now I have to figure out who's getting bumped so I can make room for it.Final Judgment: Get down from the cross, we could use the wood; Capital T--Terrific!
An old man, a soi-disant prophet of Christ, a fanatic, a nut job, steals an orphan named Tarwater from his citified nephew's home and bolts to the backwoods to raise him in the way of the Lord -- and to make moonshine.
Now the boy must make his way among real people for the first time in his life.
There's a wonderful moment, after the old man's death, when Tarwater hears his own voice as if for the first time.
17) The advent of the strange voice signals some essential split in 14-year-old Tarwater.
The Violent Bear it Away is a novel of deep psychological interiors shadowed by pasts heavy with violence and coercive control, and one theme is the conflict not only of logic and faith, but of psychological reductionism (from the heyday of pop-Freudianism) and illogical passionate prophetic impulse.
I suspect as a person O’Connor inhabited this middle.There’s a lot about this book that reminds me of Cormac McCarthy – the stark intensity and almost mechanical violence of characters portrayed in hallucinatory heightened relief, and the apocalyptic vision of these fiery characters setting fire to the landscape and everything around them.
I read this in one go, sitting up late in bed. I thinking I was shaking when I finished it. I've only (voluntarily) stayed up late reading something for a class a few times, and I think they were all for this same course. I can't remember the professor's name and don't think she got tenure, but man was she good at picking books.
Fourteen year old Francis Tarwater lives with his great-uncle Mason Tarwater.
His great-uncle has a clear vision that Francis, like him, is to be a prophet.
When the old man dies, Francis travels to his uncle Rayber.
Rayber is a secularist and he has a disabled son called Bishop.
The three spend some time together, Rayber and Tarwater both battling with their destinies.
O’Connor was a devout Catholic and this novel does highlight what she felt about secularism and Protestant fundamentalism.
O’Connor weaves together mental illness and a certain type of fundamentalism.
Il fanatismo in Flannery O'Connor appare in forma di parola profetica, esasperazione maniacale della fede, intollerante opposizione alla razionalità: un territorio dominato dall'idea di destino e dal potere della passione, dove i personaggi cercano dentro se stessi l'oscurità della creazione, la forza della redenzione, l'imperscrutabilità della distruzione.
La sentì sorgere dentro di sé, dal tempo, dall'oscurità e dai secoli, e seppe che veniva da una stirpe di uomini che erano stati scelti per subirla, che avrebbero vagato per il mondo, stranieri, figli di quella terra violenta, dove il silenzio non era mai spezzato se non dal grido della verità”.
Kitabı okurken gittim geldim, bir kırılma olacağını ve gidişatın bir yerlerde değişeceğini düşündüm hep.
Kitabı bitirdiğimde zihnimde çalınan şarkı "Yok başka bir cehennem, yaşıyorsunuz işte" oldu.
Kafamızı boşaltmak istediğimiz bir zamanda değil ama sular duruyken edebiyatın gücüne sığınarak belki de görmek, duymak, bilmek istemediğimiz şeylerle yüzleşmek için doğru bir adres.
Çeviri anlamında bütünsel olarak değilde güney kırsalının konusmasını yansıtırken üç beş cümlede bir kullanılan tek kelime benim için yeterli olmadı, yapay kaldı.
Bu haliyle bile güney gotiğinin kurucularından olması hasebiyle kendine önemli bir yer edinmiş yazar, 39 yaşında ölmese kimbilir ardında ne zengin bir külliyat bırakırdı diye düşünmeden edemedim.
O'connor'a hayranlığım gittikçe artıyor. Biçim-içerik, konu ve betimlemeleri çok etkiliyeci. 10/8
I read it in O'Connor's masterful short story collection The Complete Stories, so this story and characters were as familiar to me as an old ghost story.The novel is the account of fourteen-year-old Francis Marion Tarwater, raised solely by a man claiming to be his great-uncle, Mason Tarwater.
And keep your bidnis to yourself." It was to foil the devil's plans for him that the Lord had seen to his upbringing.Alone in the world following the death of the old man at the breakfast table, Tarwater makes an effort to bury his great-uncle according to the precise instructions he left, but Tarwater begins to hear a strange voice that tells him it would be easier to walk away from the expectations placed on him.
This little book very nearly blew me away.
I say very nearly, because there's one incident right near the end that both upset my own sensibilities - but more than that, I've been mulling it over, and I can't for the life of me figure out what it adds.
Except for that, though, this is an astounding look at obsessive faith - in religion, in rationality.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Everyone should read Flannery O'Connor, but I wouldn't start with this novel. First read some short stories--my favorite is Good Country People. But this novel is well written and very her. I love her bizzareness and the Southernness that just pervades everything she writes. Her characters are so amazingly real and yet completely unreal at the same time. She makes the unbelievable believable without seeming to try.
Δυστοπικό και γκροτεσκο. Φώκνερικο μοτίβο κ υπόγεια μάχη χαρακτήρων. Θρησκοληψία κ παραδοξολογία στην αμερικάνικη ενδοχώρα. Τενεσί. Τέσσερις βασικοί χαρακτήρες, που ίσως και να είναι ένας, σε μια εξαιρετικά ευφυής προβολή , με απαράμιλλο ύφος κ εικόνες που σου καρφώνονται, αφήνοντας ανεξίτηλα σημάδια
Flannery OConnor (1925 – 1964)A escritora Flannery OConnor (1925 – 1964) é unanimemente reconhecida como um dos expoentes máximos da literatura norte-americana do século XX, particularmente aclamada pela genialidade dos seus trinta e dois contos, coligidos em dois volumes: “Um Bom Homem É Difícil De Encontrar” e “ Tudo O Que Sobe Deve Convergir”, que combinam o cómico, o violento, o trágico e o brutal.“Sangue Sábio” e o “Céu É Dos Violentos” são os seus dois únicos romances publicados e que se i
Flannery O´Connor (1925 – 1964)A escritora Flannery O´Connor (1925 – 1964) é unanimemente reconhecida como um dos expoentes máximos da literatura norte-americana do século XX, particularmente aclamada pela genialidade dos seus trinta e dois contos, coligidos em dois volumes: “Um Bom Homem É Difícil De Encontrar” e “ Tudo O Que Sobe Deve Convergir”, que combinam o cómico, o violento, o trágico e o brutal.“Sangue Sábio” e o “Céu É Dos Violentos” são os seus dois únicos romances publicados e que se inserem na tradição Gótica Sulista, focada na religiosidade e na decadência do Sul e nas suas gentes malditas.Vou escrever alguns comentários, limitando-me a não ir mais além do que a sinopse que é divulgada na capa de “O Céu É Dos Violentos”.“O Céu É Dos Violentos” está subdividido em três partes: a primeira parte tem três capítulos e inicia-se com a morte de Mason Tarwater, que “morreu de morte inesperada”, um velho que passara quatro anos num manicómio, que vive isolado numa propriedade agrícola, rodeado de uma floresta, um fanático profeta religioso, residindo alguns meses com o seu sobrinho Rayber, mas a quem não consegui incutir os ensinamentos fundamentalista da religião cristã.
There’s a difference between dark and dreary.
Dreary is when you take dark out and expose it to the light until its mysteriousness is gone and you see how sad it is.
This story is dreary.But the writing is breathtaking, arresting.
‘I’m free,’ he hissed.
‘I’m outside your head.
I ain’t in it and I ain’t about to be.’”Are any of us really free that way?
Education was meant to give us opportunity to look at the facts and understand things for ourselves.
But now we can’t even agree on what the facts are.
This story explores that kind of control, and I found it troubling indeed.
In modi e forme misteriose all’uomo stesso, scelte discrezionalmente da Dio, ma -e questo il messaggio profondo che la scrittrice trasmette- il seme divino è presente in tutti gli uomini, dipende dalla volontà divina stabilire il momento e i modi in cui si manifesterà l’avvenuto attecchimento e la nascita dell’uomo “nuovo”, finalmente redento nella fede.Nel prozio Tarwater, folle profeta fondamentalista, il segnale divino è giunto per mezzo di una visione profetica, che gli ha imposto di scappare nei boschi portando con sé il pronipote che porta il suo stesso nome, per allevarlo e prepararlo ad aspettare la chiamata del Signore e tenersi pronto per il giorno in cui l’avrebbe udita.
The characters of the old man and the boy were so negative and so hateful, it would really seem that the message is that Christianity is about hate.
I want to tell you people the story of the world, how it never known when love come, so when love comes again, you'll be ready." The fact that the atheist uncle and the prophesying boy have the same reaction to the girl's message says everything about how filled with hate they are and how alike they are despite their opposing beliefs.
Τι μπορεί άραγε να πει στο ελληνικό αναγνωστικό κοινό του 21ου αιώνα ένα μυθιστόρημα γραμμένο το 196
I read this book after finishing her collected short stories and Wise Blood, her first novel.
None of her other work prepared me for this, her cynical, paranoid mind fuck of a novel.
One of the things I love about her work is the wry sense of humor laced through it, balancing out the dark themes and bursts of violence.
That humor is unfortunately missing from 'Violent', making for a grim read about two wholly unlikeable characters who spend most of the book in a power struggle over the soul of a young mentally challenged boy.
O'Connor kendini ispat etmiş bir yazar, kısacık hayatında yazdığı iki ciltlik öykülerin yanında bir de iki roman yazmıştı, yanlış bilmiyorsam kurgu dışı birtakım düzyazı metinleri de var (mektuplar, denemeler) ancak henüz Türkçeye çevrilmediler...Bilge Kan ve öykülerinden de bildiğimiz tamamen otobiyografik bir saplantı olarak din en yoğun kullandığı bir temadır yazarın, dini propaganda değil ama dinsel terbiye, dinsel yaşamın içinden geçmiş biri olarak tüm bunlara sevgi, merhamet, kimi zamanda acımasız bir saldırıyla dışarıdan da bakabilen büyük bir yazar...Bu kitapta da peygamberlik saplantısına sahip ve onun antitezi bir karakter, dayı-yeğen arasındaki çatışmalı ilişkiyi hangisinin daha iyi olup olmadığından ziyade handiyse bir tür "eşitler"in çatışması olarak ince ince kurulmuş...
ilk romanı bilge kan'a oldukça benzeyen temalar işliyor zorbaların elinde de. amerika'nın güneyi ne manyaklara ev sahipliği yapıyor demekten alamıyor kendini insan.bu romanda da insanın çaresizliğinin trajedisini iki karakter üzerinden çok iyi ele almış flannery o'connor ama her zaman öykülerini tercih ederim. orası kesin.
When it comes to religion, I find O'Connor much like Dostoevsky in that she is able to present a series of characters and situations that to me very forcefully illustrate the non-existence of God, while I'm certain she creates them to argue the complete opposite.So, spoiler alert I guess.
In the final part of the book, he is raped, starts setting fire to everything he comes across, and is eventually cleansed by the flames and redeemed as a prophet of God. Yeah.It's a beautiful book, a sickening book, in which rage, violence and desperation fairly leap off the page.
O'Connor is like a really cranky Tolstoy: great with the psychology, great with the symbolism and the narrative ironies, and fabulous with ideas. But not always so great with the prose. If only an editor had gone through and cut out all those terrible analogies. Otherwise, there's not much to say. This is wonderful stuff, an example of how one can write with the restrictions of an uneducated, not particularly intelligent person's voice, and do it well. Compare, I regret to say, Marilynne Robinson's Lila, which didn't manage it anywhere near as well.
I grew up in the Bible Belt, the "Christ-haunted" south...and I agree with some others here that FOC makes the religious zealots burn off the page, and the non-believers (or those fighting not to believe)are depicted as empty husks.It is a strange perspective to be a passionate Catholic (as FOC was) in the Bible Belt.
Part of what makes her so compelling to me is that she has her own very specific beliefs and points to her stories, whether that's what we take away or not.She is a great writer, and this book was enjoyable to read for the dark and unique poetry of her storytelling, even if it was tormenting in other ways.
Holy shit!No, seriously, this is some holy shit: it’s Flannery O’Connor, so it kind of goes with the territory.
Oh well, I guess an angel got its wings or whatever the saying is.
Extrapolating ‘what could have been’ can be found in Everything That Rises Must Converge or any of the other posthumous cobbling sessions her publishers got off on compiling for your judiciously leavened bread.
But this is it as far as the long form novel, kids.
Personally, I’m looking forward to the Resurrection so O’Connor can write The Violent Bear It Away II: Tarwater in the City.
Leggendo i commenti degli altri utenti si può evincere che questo è un libro che tocca corde profonde in ciascuno di noi.
Da un lato c'è il fanatismo religioso, quindi non solo cristiano, dall'altra parte il fanatismo del raziocinio, della scienza.
Fa da trade d'union il giovane Tarwater che ha vissuto con il folle religioso e che si rifugia dal laico pensatore.
Quando terminai questo libro non mi piacque affatto, anzi provai un senso di liberazione nel completarne la lettura, ma da allora ci penso spesso: è entrato in me.
The scene where the uncle is laying in his own coffin, with only his protruding belly popping out, barking orders at his nephew about the details of his burial, is a fantastic little surreal piece.Unfortunately, somehow this work became a novel where, as odd as it sounds, the mentally ill have the responsibility to defend the validity of the Christian faith.
Towards the end of this novel, she wants the reader to forget about her characters' mental illness, and even to forget that one of them is an unconvicted murderer.
