https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767854.From_Max_Weber
دوستانِ گرانقدر، پیش از پرداختن به چکیده ای از دیدگاه جامعه شناسیِ <ماکس وبر>، باید بگویم که چنانچه این کتاب را برایِ خواندن برگزیدید، اگر زبانِ انگلیسی را به خوبی میدانید، کتاب را به انگلیسی بخوانید و چنانچه ترجمهٔ فارسی را خواندید، هیچ اهمیتی به مقدمهٔ مترجم و یا هر مترجم دیگری ندهید، و آنچه خودتان از خواندنِ کتاب دریافتید را به عنوانِ اندیشهٔ ماکس وبر در ذهنِ خود بسپارید... چراکه همانطور که میدانید متأسفانه برخی از مترجمان در ایران، تحریفات بسیاری در نوشتار انجام میدهند، تا بلکه از این
مانندِ ادارهٔ حکومتِ جمهوری اسلامی در ایران، که به یکسری اسامی تازیان، همچون حسین و علی و مهدی و غیره، قداست داده اند و حکومت میکنند‎این نوع حکومت، چیزی از حکومتِ دیکتاتوری کمتر ندارند و بلکه خطرناکتر نیز میباشند، چراکه خردِ انسانی و شایستگی هایِ انسانی در این نوع حکومتها هیچ ارزشی ندارد***************‎اقتدار و حکومت کاریزمایی: این نوع از مشروعیت، مربوط میشود به ویژگی هایِ فردی و شخصی، برایِ کسی که خود را به عنوانِ رهبر معرفی کرده است....
I picked this up on a recommendation as a philosopher who does it better than RW Emerson.
First, they are both lectures, most of emerson's writing evolved as speeches, and while I don't know if that’s true for Weber, these two essays make it seem plausible.
I found both of the essays to be very good, though I did breeze over the middle section of both of them where he compares differing aspects of politics and science in different countries.
I like that his life philosophy (for lack of a better term) is only viewable in their tangential relationship to the points in the essay; he never engages with them directly.
Didn't completely read the book, maybe because it was too dry.
It may interest a student of sociology but I as a student of politics only found a few concepts worth reading namely Weber's concept on origins and role of bureaucracy, of state (which is covered in Politics as a Vocation) his lectures on Vocation (Politics and Science) and the concept of protestant ethic and capitalism.
Apart from that, there is nothing much interesting.
His concept of power and role of bureaucracy and government seems to be quite conservative to me and unlike the translators, I found Weber to be a realist rather than a liberal.
This was a great book.
Interesting enough to not get a negative rating, but not much more than meh.

او می کوشید تا نشان دهد که چگونه پیامبران با جاذبه های فرهمندانه شان توانستند قدرت های کاهنان را که مبتنی بر سنت بودند از اعتبار بیندازند و چگونه با پیدایش دین مبتنی بر کتاب، فراگرد عقلائی و نظامدار شدن پهنه دینی آغاز شد و در اخلاق پروتستانی به اوج خود رسید.
Vocation Lectures; excerpts from Economy and Society; essays from what would be compiled as Weber's Collected Works on Sociology of Religion (an intro, a between-tro, a companion essay to PESC, excerpts from Confucianism and Daoism and Religions of India), and some pieces about Germany politics and economy.
Good intro too.Intro says Max thought both Conservatives and Marxists were too simplistic, so he tried to carve out a third Liberal way that acknowledged the individual as a social actor while also accounting for the determining powers of institution, class, and status.
(Also, sociology).
همچنین بعد از اینکه ایده ی خود را در پاراگرافی بیان کرد، معمولاً با چندین تبصره سعی می کند که آن را محدود کند تا به ظرافت تمام آنچه می اندیشد را به مخاطب بفهماند.
متون او صرفاً واژگانی برای بیان یک ایده نیستند بلکه ترسیم و تجسم سیلان فکر در ذهن یک متفکرند.
برای فهم این مطلب کافی است توجه کنیم که اثر معروف "علم به مثابه ی حرفه"ی او در واقع یک مقاله نیست بلکه متن یک سخنرانی است.
او در این سخنرانی در عرض مدت کوتاهی نکات محدودی را از جنبه های مختلف برای مخاطب مطرح می کند.
In an era when sociology seems to have lost its way between economics and anthropology this book by one of the pioneers of sociology, the German Max Weber (1864 - 1920) brings everything back into balance.
To be clear about definitions, anthropology is the study of small scale mono-cultural groups while sociology should be the study of the organization of complex multicultural groups, how diverse peoples and interests are able to function as a whole.
Weber covers structures of power, politics, science, religion, economics, and most importantly bureaucracy, something that modern sociology seems to have forgotten despite its huge and growing impact on society within the last 30 years.
My undergraduate Russian History professor gave me a battered copy of this collection half a lifetime and more ago. If I was serious about History he said, if I really cared about History and social history and how societies are structured and how they develop, then I'd need to read this. He was right back then, and he's still right. Weber's essays are fine pieces--- incisive, sombre, thoughtful. Indispensable to anyone who cares about analysing social structures.
Didn't read all of it, but read the parts referring to bureucracy. While informative, the text was dry and the formatting of the ebook I was using made the reading experience less than pleasurable. I'm sure a better edited and formatted version would have improved by enjoyment by a great deal.
Its a slog at points, but some interesting ideas and theories that are still prevalent or inform today's understanding. I was specifically interested in Weber's discussion of bureaucracy and the "iron cage"
This volume contains a series of essays by the German sociologist, Max Weber, whose work has been very influential in the social sciences. It provides entree to his thinking. Excellent source to understand better Weber's body of work.
Max Weber in this essays emphesis on notion of 'action' and 'meaning'. He believes that human being consist of for kind of 'actions'. 'Meaning' ma be of two kind. this is a great book for people who want to about sociology and its definition.
I liked the message of Science as Vocation but the whole explaining your theory as confusingly as possible is garbage imo!!
i read this book during my HSM...examples given by the author at every point to clarify the view are interesting and easy to understand and they develop greater under standing of the context...
It becomes apparent after reading that many of the ideas Herr Weber advance are far more relevant than than many contemporaries would be willing to admit
Dry as dust, but brilliant nonetheless.
its cool
A very good collection of pieces by Weber. A must have for any Weber enthusiast.
Be sure to read Gerth & Mills' fine introduction to this edition of classic essays by Max Weber.
None
Didn't read the whole thing, just selections for class.
I think this book is gift for world
Enlightening and very detailed on the social structures of religious, political and scientific bureaucracies. Read for humanities course...not for fun.
Not something I'd read for fun, but some interesting stuff in here.
I only read "Politics as Vocation" and "Science as Vocation" but both were worth the read. Especially amusing are his side remarks on universities and academicians.
Karangan Max Weber selalu menarik. Pengamatan dan analisis yang dibuat cukup tajam dan dapat menggambarkan kondisi sosial masyarakat pada zamannya. Menarik untuk jadi referensi sejarah sosiologi.
Slightly more interesting and more logical than Marx, but definitely not my favorite.
Much helpful for students of sociology.The Essays collected here are equally relevent even today!!
