https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33408.The_Gardener_s_Year
originally published in czechoslavakia in 1929, karel čapek's the gardener's year is a charming, whimsical, and amusing little book about the joys and frustrations of gardening.
chronicling the gardener's year month by month, čapek contrasts the ecstasies and hardships of turning one's hands and heart to cultivating the soil.
the gardener's life was not composed as a detailed, how-to guide, and, thus, little in the way of instructional advice is to be found.
I fiori sono solo un paravento, scelto perché Čapek stesso era stato risucchiato nel vortice della selezione di bulbi e sementi, concimi, attrezzi, tecniche, ricette segrete per preparare un ottimo terreno: l'analisi potrebbe essere applicata, con i dovuti accorgimenti, a qualsiasi passione divorante e totalizzante - anche quella per la lettura ( si veda l'affinità tra il giardiniere che, durante il riposo invernale, impiega il suo tempo compulsando cataloghi alla ricerca di semi e bulbi, e la costante crescita della wishlist di ogni buon lettore ).Secondo la curatrice, Daniela Galdo, la qualità più di questi feuilleton, "quella che colpisce ed emoziona, è la cura che Čapek ha della lingua, della sua lingua ceca", lingua ricca e raffinata come poche altre: "ricca di sinonimi, che danno allo scrittore una possibilità infinita di giocare con le sfumature, quasi tono su tono".
Capek, for those who do not know him, was a Czech writer (1890-1938) who is remembered in literature for his science fiction (he coined the term "robot") than this short treatise on gardening, but he has nonetheless left us with a very entertaining and beautifully written account of the trials and passions of an obsessive Czech gardener and his year-long life entrenched in his garden.
Highly recommended for gardeners and anyone who enjoys short essays that entertain while shedding light on our modern, busy lifestyles.
Onderhoudend en soms erg grappig tuinadvies van de Tsjechische grootmeester. Er circuleren 3 edities van deze vertaling uit 1998, die helaas uit het Frans is. Jammer dat Rainbow deze secundaire vertaling gewoonweg overneemt.Leuke tekeningen van Josef Čapek.
Capek really captures the ornery obsession that gardening brings out in people: It is done like this: you buy any bulbs you like, and from the nearest gardener you get a sack of nice compost; then you look for all the old flower-pots in the cellar and in the loft, and put one bulb in each.
After that you buy a few bulbs more, but because again you have not soil enough, you buy a new sack of compost.
Then again some soil remains over, which, of course, you don't like to throw away, so you decide to buy some more pots and bulbs.

In fact, I think I wouldnt appreciate any other version but original czech one. Its not only story itself, but the form. It is something absolutely amazing, how he can play with language. The act of reading was like listening to beautiful serenade.
Beautiful, positive, hopeful, witty and wonderful. Anyone who endures the trials and tribulations as well as the serene tranquility and beauty gardening can bring will enjoy this book. If you can't get out to garden, this is the next best thing.
The lengthy quotation by William really summarizes this witty and thoughtful book. It has the frenetic sense of Eastern European writing along with the sense of the gardener. Written in the early 1920's, it is the picture of a lost era, but seems contemporary to the mad gardener in me.
"The best thing of all is to be a living man -- that is, a man who grows."This happy little quote, straightforward and simple and profound, could sum up this wonderful little book.
While I have wanted to read Karel Čapek for a considerable amount of time, I never guessed that I would begin exploring his universe through this short piece on gardening!
However, a part of me wished I knew more about the plants that Čapek kept talking about; still, not knowing all the plants doesn't render the book unreadable.
Anybody interested in Czech literature as a whole will like it for the same reasons.
But those who will like The Gardener's Year the most are hardcore gardeners themselves and anybody who loves working the earth in similar fashion.
Greatly looking forward to reading more Karel Čapek!
This is very charming, often humorous, and the writer communicates the essential angst of everyday gardening quite well. Hard to relate to in terms of practical gardening experience, but entertaining. Maybe just a bit thin.
Being an amature gardner myself I enjoyed this simple book tremendiously.
The book was written in the Czech playwright's native language and this meditation on gardening is witty, graceful and precious.
For example, I learned about the turning of the seasons in Prague by his descriptions of his garden in each month of the year.
I am not even a marginally competent gardener and yet I was fascinated by this book.
Read this book!PS It's also extraordinary, I must say, to look into the mind of person much older than myself.
Older is wiser and less quick to take offense at things, I think...more inclined to be meditative.
ספר קטן ואירוני העוסק ביחס שבין האדם לטבע (המבוית) שסביבו: "שנת הגנן" מאת קראל צ'אפק.בלשון הומוריסטית מדוייקת, מפרק צ'אפק את הפנטזיות והמיתוסים שלנו על הטבע המבוית.
אהבה שמונעת מדחף קנאות ותסכול.פעם אחר פעם מסתבר לקורא שהטבע, הכה פסטורלי והיפה, אינו עבד חרוף לידו המכוונת והמיטיבה של האדם אלא נוגש קשה ומר המתעתע בגנן.הספר רווי אמיתות על החיים, ומיד מזהים שמדובר באלגוריה על הנסיונות של האדם להכפיף את הטבע לגחמותיו.
אל לכם להסיק מכך שמדובר בספר מדכא ומדכדך.
מדובר בספר משעשע מלווה בקריצה חיננית לחוסר יכולתו של האדם להפנים את אי שלטונו המוחלט בטבע.מומלץ בחום."שנת הגנן", קארל צ'אפקהוצאת בבל, 2010, 134 עמ'מלווה באיורים מקסימים!
Although I am a rather clumsy gardener and I am plagued by rabbits and gophers and deer ( oh my!), I do share Capek's enthusiasm for gardening.I re-read this book every year. It inspires me and gives me solace in the long dark days of Winter. This is a light-hearted introduction to the work of Karel Capek, one of the best European writers from the last century.
I truly enjoyed this bok. The author is quite amusing at times.
One of the funniest things I've ever read!
Humor, interesting, wise and impressive. What a lovely book and great author !
If you like to garden... this is a classic. It should be made into a radio program because it is entertaining. I know just the voice I would use. Erik Bauersfield.
Interesting book. It kind of reminded me of how we behave in other aspects of our life.
Charming and humorous book about gardening. Moderately delightful. Gently soothing. Thoughtfully light. High fluffy clouds.Interest in gardening not required.
Lovely, funny little book. I like the month-by-month and topical chapter format. Will return to this periodically. I think it might be great to read aloud in bits.
Audiobuch-Rezension:Karel Čapek (1890-1938) war einer der bedeutendsten tschechischen Schriftsteller des 20. Jahrhunderts. Das Jahr des Gärtners (Originaltitel Zahradníkův rok, 1929, erstmals 1932 ins Deutsche übersetzt) schildert augenzwinkernd bis satirisch monatsweise die Ereignisse eines Gärtners im heimischen Garten. Dabei merkt man dem Werk sein Alter nicht an, vielleicht sind die Obsessionen, Freuden und Verzweiflungen des Gärtner einfach zeitlos. Allerdings muss man wohl auch die entsprechende Begeisterung für das Sujet mitbringen, um Das Jahr des Gärtners vollkommen schätzen zu können. Oliver Rohrbeck liest das Werk gekonnt humorvoll, wie zu erwarten war.
pekne a mudre.
An excellent little collection of essays, humorous for the gardener and non gardener alike.
Maybe the biology shelf is a bit exaggerated...I loved this funny and sweet satire about a gardeners life. If you ever had a garden, you will enjoy the reflections of Karel Capek, even though they are from 1929. He goes through the existential dilemma of a gardener during the months of the year and has some chapters about the essential stuff such as the weather, the earth, the seeds etc. At times his text nears poetry, full of love for the miracle of nature. Wonderful.
Toprakla oynamaya bile iş diyebilirsiniz çünkü sırtınız ve beliniz tutulur, işi güzel ya da sağlıklı bir şey olduğu için yapmazsınız.
Eğer bir şeyi kutlamak istiyorsanız, yaptığınız işi değil, bu işleri kendileri için yaptığınız çançiçeği ve taşkıranı kutlayın.
Kitaplar ve makaleler yazmak yerine bir torna tezgahında ya da bir dokuma tezgahındaysanız, işi sırf iş olsun diye yapmazsınız.
Ama sırf prensipten dolayı iş yapmak, prensipten dolayı, bu davranışın erdeminden dolayı çalışmak, çok da değeri olmayan bir iş yapmak anlamına gelir.
Bu bayramın insanın zekasını, bugüne kadar işleri yoluna sokmak için yaptığı tüm hileleri kutladığını farz ediyorum, eğer böyle olsaydı bugün gerçek bir tatil olurdu.
(This review was originally written for The Garden Bloggers' Book club)My company sent me to a seminar in Manhattan earlier this month.
I checked with the company who was giving the seminar to make sure a laptop was not necessary for the class.
I was particularly struck by his assertion that a gardener's spring is actually in the fall.
How many hundreds of bulbs did I plant last fall?
Wishlists are begun of plants, seeds and bulbs in anticipation of the catalogs that will be overflowing my mailbox during the winter months.
I have always thought of the fall as the end of the growing season.
It's also nice to know that the cult of gardening is the same the world over; whether you're English like me, or Czech like writer Karel Capek or his illustrator brother Josef, we all have the same anxieties and dreams; 'it ought to rain, the garden needs it' 'I have no space at all in my garden for new plants but I must have this one; I will find room somehow'.
It is comforting to know that the mentality of a gardener has not really changed since Capek wrote this book in 1929 either.
