https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4494917-gone-tomorrow
Superbly fantastic and definitely worth reading.Lee Child has outdone himself once again with this thirteenth installment of Jack Reacher series. Unmistakably, Gone Tomorrow falls into the ‘exceptional read’ category. For me, this book had a very riveting and ingenious plot, and with each unforeseeable twist and turn, my curiosity grew bigger and bigger. The more I got into the story, the harder it was for me to put it down. This one had me completely hooked!This book is, hands down, one of the best thrillers I’ve read this year. Couldn’t recommend it more highly!
This one's hard to review because any little detail I reveal might turn out to spoil a surprise for someone.
Once you get past a certain point in the book, there's no good stopping point.
Jack Reacher witnesses a late-night tragedy involving a woman on a New York subway.
They ask him questions that make no sense to him, and he decides to figure out why the woman did what she did on the subway.
It's an elaborate cat and mouse game through the streets and subways of New York City.
We can only hope it will be revealed in a future installment.
A short minute later we were completely out of control." Done.)Of all the Jack Reacher thrillers I've read so far, I'd classify them as either "not so good" or "pretty good," and this one falls firmly in the region of "pretty good." It frequently approaches "damned good," but not quite often enough for me to bump my rating up from three stars to four stars.Oh, and in my last review of a Reacher thriller -- 61 Hours, the book published right after this one -- I was left with a single burning question.
My Rating: 2.9/5It's a good book. Boring half the time though and repetitive. I expected more.
Another outstanding Reacher ... Lee Child never fails to write powerful, tense action
The plot was fast paced, which made it a real page turner.
The characterisation of Reacher is in-depth and gives the book real integrity.
Having read Killing Floor - which introduced Jack Reacher - but nothing in between, I liked how the character has developed between the two books.I liked the length of the chapters.
I liked the plot subject - I can't actually say anything about it, as that would give away details, but suffice to say it's very relevant and I liked Child's take on it.A great book, definitely one I’d recommend to fans of fast-paced thrillers.
I was on page 369 before I realized that one of the characters in this novel by Lee Child was named Lee. Yes, yes, it was her last name, but she is constantly referred to as Lee, and yet I didn't notice till I was more than halfway through the book.
I was not happy when the novel was over, yet I am gleeful that I have the next novel in the series on my "To-Read Shelf." I am going to savor the anticipation and NOT start the book for at least a week as I enjoy the post-novel glow.
4 starsWarning: There are brutal torture scenes at about 38% and 72% through the book.
I skimmed maybe 30 pages overall to keep an excellent pace, and that worked pretty well for me.As usual, the middle of the book lagged a bit, and you can skip the torture scenes as noted above - they add nothing to the plot, and only add mouth-foam to the bad guys.
There's a bit too much detail about New York City itself, the streets and trains and buildings.
Only Lee Child could open a book and spend the best part of two pages talking about the make and model of a subway carriage and where it was made and still have me enthralled (however, I was pleased to see this actually had relevance near the end of the story).
Gone Tomorrow is a first person Reacher novel however it was only after about 300 pages that I remembered that.
I was impressed with the depth to the story and the constant misdirection that Lee Child does so well.
No condescending bullshit, the author knew the reader wanted to see the villains suffer - I certainly did, after having nightmares reliving "that scene" - so he had Reacher go all out crazy on them.
For the first half of the book, there's a lot of investigation and setting the stage for the second half, which is high octane and full of action.I like Reacher in New York.
A few of the books are set in the City, but this is the one where he spends most time on the ground.
Reacher is on a New York train when he sees a woman who meets all the usual requirements for a suicide bomber but when he sticks his snout in, the woman whips out a gun and kills herself.
Immediately he is hassled by the feds, the NYPD, and some mysterious foreign guys in cheap suits with phony business cards and two weird female leaders- a mean old hag who is from the middle east and loves to slice people open and skin them and a model worthy beauty named Lila who is even meaner than the hag.
Gone Tomorrow (Jack Reacher, #13), Lee Child
Brilliant...One of the best opening chapters of any book I have ever read. Always excellently researched, as always. Following Jack Reacher's logic is thrilling. Read it.
Gone Tomorrow, the 13th book in Lee Child's Jack Reacher Series - Jack Reacher, maverick, loner, a nomad who drifts from town to town and who lives by his own rules and regulations is back.This time he's in New York City and one night riding on the subway, spots a woman in the same carriage he's travelling on, who he finds intriguing and he reads her body language which makes him think that she may be a suicide bomber. “Suicide bombers are easy to spot. They give out all sorts of telltale signs.
Gone Tomorrow, the 13th book in Lee Child's Jack Reacher Series - Jack Reacher, maverick, loner, a nomad who drifts from town to town and who lives by his own rules and regulations is back.This time he's in New York City and one night riding on the subway, spots a woman in the same carriage he's travelling on, who he finds intriguing and he reads her body language which makes him think that she may be a suicide bomber.
“Suicide bombers are easy to spot.
Mostly because they’re nervous.
By definition they’re all first-timers.”
Reacher is Reacher.
You know what to expect and then you are not disappointed.This a storyline that you will not forget.
If you like technical detail it’s for you.
This time Reacher investigates the connection of a woman who shoots herself on the train to a senate candidate.
The book also draws from real world events for it's backstory.
The story features one of the more notable villains of the Reacher series.
Although, Reacher usually never feels like he's in danger from the bad guys, the series is never a dull read.
Looking forward to the next book!
Hi,Another Lee Child's book finished.Although still good, I feel this one was a little slower then others I have read. A little too much bogged down in history although did build up to a exciting end.Starting next oneregardsSean
After reading Lee Child's 13th book in his Jack Reacher series, "Gone Tomorrow", I hate them even more.Reacher has a talent for finding trouble.
In this case, a simple subway ride turns into a violent roller-coaster with geo-political ramifications.Reacher finds a seat in a random subway car at 2 a.m. Besides himself, there are five other passengers.
Ms. Marks exhibits ten of them.To say more would spoil the fun and suspense of this novel, which builds to a terrifying crescendo.
It is, also, probably the most violent of the Reacher novels thus far, so a word to the squeamish: if this were a movie, you would probably have to cover your eyes through nearly a third of it.
عالی بود. بهترین ریچری که خونده بودم. هم داستان عالی بود و هم ترجمه.
I like the Reacher series.
This was good.STORY BRIEF:While riding on a subway train, Reacher sees Susan Mark kill herself.
These groups and others think Reacher knows more than he says, and they follow him, pressure him, and try to hurt him to get information.
I prefer thrillers like this one - meaning we are in the heads of the bad guys and watch them as they try to hurt Reacher and others.
Ending: feel good and satisfying.THE SERIES:							Following is a list of the Jack Reacher books in order with my ratings.
This is one of the better ones.When the novel opens Jack Reacher is in New York City riding a subway at 2AM.
Susan Mark, the fifth passenger, is showing signs of many of the items on the list.
A comment by one of the investigating NYPD officers causes Reacher to question himself and how he handled the situation.The cast of characters in this thriller is large and diverse.
Reacher is repeatedly and emphatically warned off the case by the FBI and Department of Defense / Homeland Security.
Then there is the beautiful and mysterious woman and her mother with a fantastic story.
The book is excellent and it's a great rebound for Lee Child's 12th book in Reacher series.The story begun with Jack Reacher traveling through New York subway system and noticed a suspicious passenger who seemed to wear a suicide vest.But things are bigger that what it seems at first and it started a great story about US involvement in Afghanistan during Soviet invasion and including Osama Bin Laden.
I decide to grab the next in the series (hey, I'm taking my sweet time getting through these) was a "fat" one of 500 plus pages. That doesn't matter with Reacher, the pages fly by as usual. Another thrilling adventure, in one of my favorite series.
Sherlock Reacher saves the world - again.Using impossible logic and extra sensory powers of deduction, Reacher unpicks a plot more convoluted and ridiculous than most of the previous stories.But while doing this, he always has something interesting to say.Spoiler alert - oh, really! Reacher shags the beautiful woman, solves the puzzle and kills all the bad guys.How can you not love him?
I'm going to add the same review for all of the Reacher series, so if you've read this one, you've read 'em all.
Jack seems to implicitly understand that he is a unique animal/human running around on this planet and that in spite of social conventions, cultural trappings, and whatever conventions and abstractions we allow into our mind in order to alleviate this core fact of our singularity (and aloneness)...the truth of it is not something Mr. Reacher denies.He embraces it.
Understands his philosophy implicitly, revels in his physical being,his conventions and values.
Typically I devour a "Jack Reacher" novel. His quick wit, logistical and deductive reasoning abilities make for an likeable, deadly, eccentric hero. "Gone Tomorrow" however, was somewhat disappointing. Instead of being enthusiastically pulled more and more into the story, I had to push myself to read through dead spots and a couple totally unnecessary graphically gruesome ramblings. Also, Reacher's famous wit seemed sparse and somewhat flat. Overall though, a viable, intelligent, solid plot...just not a Lee Child home run.
A mystery/thriller with a plot about terrorists, in both the past and present. The first half of the book was mostly solving the mystery. The second half was mostly action and dealing with the bad guys. One plot point was partially unresolved, which disappointed me a bit. Maybe it gets addressed in a later book in the series? A quick read that held my interest.
Intelligently written plot captures the mind and interest (author’s usual). Like the series and think L.C. should write faster. Some profanity, sexual situations are not graphic. Recommended.
4,25 stars English paperback - I have dyslexia -Bought this book in Amsterdam, and read it while on a boat trip. The book was more interresting than the trip! " He has the swithback plotting and frictionless prose that only Child has. " - The Guardian -I agry! The twist and turns are Child's trademark for me.Love the book more than the movie with Tom Gruise because than I can make my own film with my favorite actor. 😀
We all know that Jack Reacher is a psychopathic loner wandering aimlessly across America working out childhood conflicts by breaking bones.
Set in a post 9/11 world, with flash backs to the cold war, Jack finds himself engaged in a conflict with no moral foundation.
Destruction of the Soviet Union and coarsening of life in America.In the end we are left with specific unknowns, including what the book was ostensibly about.
Or, more likely the story is about how there is not right side in a compromised, morally declining society, and that is why Jack is left out in the cold.Always entertaining, it is worth the read, and the questions it asks.
A sort of paladin who stumbles into mysteries which he must solve with brain and brawn (Jack is a huge guy who pretty much never loses a fight even against four or five experienced fellows).
That was pretty much the weak part of Gone Tomorrow, already number one on the best seller list.
Lee Child sort of phoned in the sex scene because, I suppose, it is obligatory that the ladies just can't resist our Jack.
There's a politician with a past, bad guys and girls and Jack Reacher to sort it all out.
Not the best in the series but, as always, a good read.
