https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39889.Grey_Eminence
His biography of Father Joseph, effective French foreign minister during the Thirty Years War, is a perfect mix of novelistic description, history, biography and philosophical essay.
The balance is just right so one does not get bored with his excurses into the major theme of the book, namely the relationship between politics, religion and ethics.Father Joseph, François Leclerc du Tremblay, interested the author because, in the Catholic tradition, he appears to represent two extremes.
How, Huxley wonders, could an authentic mystic doe this?One does not have to be an expert on seventeenth century European politics to read this book.
The earliest literary reference to "holy indifference" occurs in the Bhagavad-Gita, where Krishna assures Arjuna that it is right for him to slaughter his enemies, provided that he does so in a spirit of non-attachment.
Father Joseph conducted a small crusade against the Illumines, who asserted that they could go to bed with one another in a spirit of holy indifference; but there seemed to him nothing in the least improper in his own claim to be a non-attached intriguer, spy and maker of wars."What we readers really like is to disapprove of other people’s bad behavior.
Through the pursuit of policy blasphemously contradictory to his vows as a Catholic Capuchin monk and 'contemplative' mystic, Father Joseph allowed for the slaughter, starvation and cannibalism of millions of Europeans--most of them German.
In addition to the political intrigue of Father Joseph's life and brief historical accounts, there are many passages on mysticism, morality, and the role of religious/contemplative people vs.
Huxley's gloomy conclusions--considered during the height of the Nazi's domination--towards where the future was heading still aren't too far off from what the present political/military climate is- in other words, we still haven't heeded history's lessons.
That’s certainly what I felt when I read Grey Eminence, Aldous Huxley’s biography of Father Joseph, an obscure but pivotal figure in the Thirty Years’ War in Europe.
What I found was very little in the way of a history of the war but a great deal more of interest.Father Joseph was born a French nobleman but, from early in his life, devoted himself to the ascetic life of a monk.
A fascinating story of Cardinal Richelieu's right hand.
A man who as a French Foreign minister was taking direct actions to prolong the atrocities of the thirty years' war in hope of consolidating French Monarchy and who at the same time as Capuchin Monk was taking meticulous care of his order and passed nights in deep meditations.
The realities of the 17th century Europe on the background are both fascinating and terrifying.
The book strengthened my belief that not much is changed in the way power-politics is done and that I am infinitely grateful for living in an age and place where past atrocities are not commonplace.
So good... literally life changing.
This book doubles as a biography on Francois Leclerc du Tremblay, right hand of Cardinal Richelieu as well as a primer on mysticism.The Autor strays from the main subject repeatedly to the point that it’s easy to forget that this is a biography and not a treaty on mysticism.
Regardless of its shortcomings, the book it’s a very interesting read on a fascinating character and of his time, the Europe of on the thirty years wars in the XVII century.Francois Leclerc du Tremblay, known in religion as Father Joseph of Paris and to anecdotal history as The Grey Eminence was a master of the game of power politics.
A diplomat, a spy master, and top-level advisor and military strategist were some of the many facets of this complex character.
This is a very good book if you like the subjects of religion, politics, and history.
I was impressed and I will continue to look forward to your other novels after reading such a good book like this.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------I have re-read this book in physical form.
I found it at a bookstore in Vancouver, BC and now I am back to reflect about how a paper version of some books make a night or day difference.
It is confirmed, that the paper version should not be overlooked, for most books.
Now that I have re-read this book, I can definitely confirm that this is a really good book.
Huxley saw religious devotion as something inherently harmless, and even sometimes genuinely beneficial, that could be turned to unbelievably destructive ends when men, having convinced themselves that they are instruments of God's will, attempt to use the low and barbarous means of war and political intrigue to usher in a reign of higher spiritual or metaphysical ideals in the mundane world.
Published in 1941, this study was especially meaningful at a time when Hitler, attempting to impose his own metaphysical vision on the world, prepared to launch the largest invasion in history against the Soviet Union, ushering in a theatre of war that surpassed even the horrific Thirty Years' War in its infliction of human destruction and misery.
A marvelous political biography of Father Joseph, Cardinal Richelieu's aide, Diplomatic genius, and one of the most remarkable protagonists of the Thirty Years War. A mystic who longed for isolation, he preserved the political and cultural unity of France at a time when it was under almost constant siege, at terrible cost.
First of all, it's Aldous Huxley. Secondly, it's the story of the religio-political maneuvering that ushered in some of Europe's darkest days. A portrait of a deeply devout monk who's decisions reduced Europe to the point of cannibalism. A great historical biography and one of the strongest cases for the separation of Church and State.
I hadn't really realised what this was when I bought it. Found myself hating it at the start but enjoying it the more I read of it. It is certainly an interesting account except for its long passages about mysticism.
El Fraile Capuchino, Padre José de París, asesor del Cardenal Rechelieu, justificó sus acciones en la pasión de Cristo. Si uno se había sacrificado por todos, algunos podían sacrificarse por Francia. Con este motivo alargó la guerra de los 30 años para debilitar a España y a los Habsburgo.
My top Huxley choice
Well it's Huxley, erudite and philosophical and you feel like a more intelligent human being for the experience.
This is why we have separation of church and state. Read about the The Thirty Years of War in Europe in the 17th Century. Educate yourself as the schools are not interested in doing so.
Beautifully written, as one would expect coming from Aldous. There's a great section on mysticism.
