https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20949.American_Caesar
“The soldier above all others prays for peace, for it is the soldier who must suffer and bear the deepest wounds and scars of war.” Douglas MacArthur at West Point. Following in his father’s footsteps.The blare of trumpets, the clash of arms, the screams of the wounded, the bullets whizzing through the air, and the acrid smell of cannon smoke were all part of the life of Douglas MacArthur since the day he was born. His father’s exploits hung on him like a second skin. At the Battle of Missionary
Grant and George “Old Blood and Guts” Patton ground up soldiers in their command giving new definitions to the term cannon fodder, MacArthur developed campaign strategies with the intent of sparing as many GI lives as possible.
I think part of the issue that MacArthur had with Washington and the presidents he served is the amount of time he spent overseas away from the politics.
Manchester makes the case that a lot of the problems between MacArthur and President Truman stemmed from the fact that no clear objective had been handed down to MacArthur.
The entire situation at the very least was fraught with lapses on all sides, and seen objectively is a big question mark, not about the necessity of civilian control of the military, which is a highly desirable and noble goal, but about whether civilian control is even possible in the end.The whole episode sheds a lot of light on the question if a democracy will ever be able to carry on wars of aggression, let alone colonial wars, for a long time (even if they were someone else's as was Vietnam).
I can't possibly add to any of the previous reviews on this thread......suffice it to say, this may be one of the best biographies I have ever read (and I've read a lot). MacArthur was a complex man and Manchester captures his personality and career masterfully. This is a must read!!!

MacArthur grows up on frontier army posts, attends West Point (where he excels), is sent to the Philippines (where he shoots a couple bushwhackers), and rises to the rank of general during World War I.
Manchester fawns over MacArthur's courage - his disdain for snipers, his plane trips over enemy territory - while utterly ignoring the obvious point that thousands of his troops were doing the same thing every day, while Mac rarely came to the front.
This book has been sitting on my shelf for years waiting to be re-read; its pages discolored, its cover cracked but its story as fresh in 2009 as it was in 1984.Undoubtedly, the greatest military mind in the history of the United States, Douglas MacArthur can only be understood by the standards of the late 19th Century.
In his mind, you fought a war to conquer the enemy, completely eliminating their ability to strike back, then you treated them with the understanding and kindness due a gallant foe.
I had the honor in 1962 of being in the audience when General MacArthur gave his "Farewell to the Corps" speech at West Point.
I was there because I had followed his spirit and banner from the time I was a boy, having already read two of his biographies and having seen him land at Houston's Hobby Airport when he returned from Korea and ride through throngs of cheering Texans.
This biography was extremely well written and exposed MacArthur's flaws as well as his true side.
I'll go back to Manchester on his books on Churchill and the JFK assassination and perhaps again to this superb biography of MacArthur.
A warrior who hated war, a man of great charisma and generous spirit, who could be equally as vain and petty.
But nowhere do we see the embodiment of the duality of man more clearly in MacArthur.
I could go on, but what Manchester has done, has given us one of the greatest historical biographies, equal to Kershaw's biography of Adolf Hitler in its scope and ambition.
In fairness, Truman comes out of the Korean war looking pretty bad, but it is MacArthur, the warlord, who bears the brunt of failure.
In the paperback edition of "American Caesar" that I read, one of the blurbs that's quoted falls back on the old cliche that this biography reads like a novel.It's a tempting description for such a gripping book, but William Manchester's biography in reality is nothing like a novel.
"That's the best thing to do with them." And he walks on in that direction.Who could make up a character like that?I was particularly glad to read this biography after having recently read "The Coldest Winter," about the Korean conflict; and "Truman!" about President Truman.
This is of course a biography of General Douglas MacArthur.
It contains a lot of information and I really like the fact that it is well balanced.
Manchester clearly outlines MacArthur's strengths and weaknesses.One really good point he made is when he describes MacArthur's role in Occupied Japan.
MacArthur was an incredibly good choice to be in charge of the occupation.
He was somewhat aloof and not the usual type of handshaking, smiling politician.
That worked especially well with Japanese of that era---MacArthur behaved the way they expected a leader to act.
It no doubt helped the Occupation government to run a bit more smoothly.
His contributions to the fortunes of Japan, Australia, Philippines, and Korea continue to be felt today.The section on Korea corrected a lot of false impressions I had about that war (I did not fully appreciate the lack of leadership coming from Washington and I never really understood how problematic MacArthur was being towards the end).
The book was really good at illustrating MacArthur's tactical genious in WWII and then it turned around and showed the same general fooled and then beat in a new kind of war.
If the battles had been covered in more detail I'd have wanted more maps than are provided, but as this book is about the man rather than the battles they are sufficient.Reading this book I realized that, although I've read quite a bit about World War II, I haven't studied any of the battles fought by MacArthur's forces (other than Bataan/Corregidor).
What I have learned about MacArthur prior to reading this book had to do with the Korean War. As such, I have had quite a negative view of the man.
Manchester's bio reveals something very unsettling about people.
I won't go so far as to say it's unsettling about the American character, but it's close.
Despite the relative loss in stature MacArthur has undergone in the decades since his death, the near-deification of him during the heights of his popularity is unseemly.
Manchester quotes a Congressman who, immediately following MacArthur's 1951 farewell speech to Congress, exclaimed "That's God!
But the passage of time makes the level of adulation for him seem deeply un-American(FULL DISCLOSURE--I hate "The Apotheosis of George Washington" the painting in the Capitol Building.
I did it! Longest book I have read since I joined Goodreads. Very fascinating biography of one of the most interesting characters in American military history. Though somewhat dated (written in 1978), it benefitted from the author being able to interview many people that knew MacArthur. The book portrays MacArthur honestly, flaws and all. He had his moments where he shined, such as the Southwest Pacific campaigns and Inchon, but times where he failed miserably, such as right after Pearl Harbor and his obsession with the press. The author shows both sides of this remarkable character in American history.
American Caesar is a comprehensive, but often plodding, biography. The author covers all aspects of MacArthur's life in considerable detail. However, the narrative is far too often interrupted by needless comparisons to ancient generals, brief forays into philosophy, etc.
If I were to take a poll, I think I'd find that MacArthur has truly faded away, at least to anyone under 40, maybe even 50.
I'm not sure American Caesar achieves quite the same level as Krupp did--maybe I just wasn't as susceptible to Manchester's charms this time.
When I look around at the world situation today, I can see that MacArthur had a huge role in its foundation, and that definitely makes the book worth reading.
At the very least, it makes MacArthur's role worth reading about, in this book or another, and in that way, to prevent his name from just fading away.
I really liked this book; I am not so sure about Douglas MacArthur!
Just a few highlights would include graduating first in his class from West Point, the Vera Cruz raid into Mexico, commanding the Rainbow Division as a General in WWI, being Superintendent of West Point, serving as Army Chief of Staff, being named Field Marshall of the Philippine Army, being ill-prepared after Pearl Harbor and being forced to withdraw onto Bataan and Corregidor, a daring escape with his family to Australia, commanding US army forces in the Pacific as they island-hop back towards Japan, serving as SCAP for Japan after the war, leading UN forces during the Korean War, and eventually being relieved of duty by Truman for insubordination.
The same pattern would emerge later in Vietnam.- To MacArthur, limited war—the acceptance of prolonged, indecisive conflicts on the peripheries of the Sino-Russian sphere of influence—was like limited pregnancy, but it was the keystone of containment to its architect, George Kennan, who defined it as “the adroit and vigilant application of counter-force at a series of constantly shifting geographical and political points, corresponding to the shifts and maneuvers of Soviet policy.”- The nations who believe in collective security has been put to the test, and has been sustained.
You will be coming back to me before long.” Smiling, MacArthur shook his head and said: “Again you are wrong, Colonel.
Yet he was also endowed with great personal charm, a will of iron and a soaring intellect.Unquestionably he was the most gifted man at arms this nation has produced.His belief in an Episcopal, merciful God was genuine, yet he seemed~ to worship only at the altar of himself.
He never went to church, but he read the Bible every day and regarded himself as one of the worlds two great defenders of Christendom.
With all his high strung impulses he held himself in check.His own heroes were Lincoln an Washington, and in some ways he resembled them.
The book itself is delightful to read, packed not only with the facts of MacArthur's life and times, but also making a compelling case for MacArthur being one of history's greatest generals.
While reading the book, I felt like I knew MacArthur personally and was able to understand how and why he reacted to the great and tragic events of the 20th century.
The author does a superb job of showing us all aspects of his character, making the reading of this book a truly great experience.
An excellent balanced portrayal of one of the greatest American military minds.
The book falls short a bit with regard to his time in Japan as SCAP.
John Dower and others have covered that in excellent detail.Two things that I found fascinating about MacArthur were his time with his father, Arthur MacArthur, when the senior man was the senior US military official in the Philippines and Douglas was a newly commissioned Lt. out of West Point.
Also fascinating was MacArthur's time as Commandant at West Point.
A very critical and well written historical account of one of America's most important Commanding Generals in the history of the nation.
General Washington and General MacArthur are the nations most reverred Generals in the History of the United States.
Had General MacArthur been able to do what was promised by President Truman - we wouldn't be dealing with the idiocy of North Korea today and likely nothing with the South China Sea illegal placement of Chinese Military Installations on islands that belong to Vietnam, the Philippines, and Japan."Duty, Honor, Country" never felt so important as when one reads the history within this book.
The man was born into a world in which the Midwest was a dangerous frontier rather than boring flyover country and died explaining to LBJ that Vietnam wasn't a place we should send American troops.
While I didn't always agree, it helps make a biography entertaining as well as informative, You know a biographer has done his job well (and that the subject of the book lived an extraordinary life) when you feel sad that such a tale could end.
This book brings up very important political policies that we still need to figure out today (Congressional approval for war, fighting wars of limited means and ends, having well defined ends at all, being adequately prepared for "the next war").
In terms of understanding World War II, missing the story of General MacArthur as Supreme Commander is like tripping over the importance of the Manhattan Project.
He was a military genius under who’s sole command the Pacific allied force strategically gained victory over Japan.
MacArthur exuded his title of “Supreme Commander.” He did not possess “delusions of grander”...
The 5-Star General commonly strode right through open bomb raids believing himself invincible.
The title of Manchester’s book, “American Caesar”, is dead on.
American Caesar feels like the definitive biography of MacArthur (...
And like the general, 5 stars!
William Manchester presents a balanced picture of him and is not afraid to criticize the General.
What I thought was remarkable was the personal bravery Mac Arthur displayed on his pre WWI Mexican raid and the his time in France.
His personal life early on was dominated by his mother and he was afraid of displeasing her even when he was in his 40s!
I highly recommend this book to anyone who is student of the 20th Century and WWII.
If you understand his 19th Century rooots in the 20th Century, this presents a much more favorable picture of him to the student of the 20th Century.
We briefly learn about some of his escapades in the first World War (where he is promoted to Brigadier General), and his tenure as Superintendent of West Point for a few years following the conclusion of World War I.This book really becomes interesting around the late 1930s, as MacArthur is assigned as a military advisor in the Philippines.
Of course the Japanese now revere the man as a god, yet it really isn’t all that surprising considering just how far he has turned things around in this nation.Then, we come to Korea.
What a book and what a Soldier,This is one of the best-written biographies I have ever read.
It is nonfiction which flows so smoothly like a novel.
Manchester gives the great General his due, showing the many times he risked his life on the front lines even when his Flag rank would have allowed him to remain in safety.
On the other hand, many embarrassing facts are also on display here- for example, how the "Supreme Commander (SCAP)" owes a key promotion to his doting mother's intervention, and how his ego caused him to lose his job at the height of the Korean War.
The best, most enthralling biography I've ever read. An extraordinary man of so many contradictions it makes your head spin. A vainglorious narcissist, a man of extraordinary physical courage, a politician, a philosopher, a master strategist, and the diplomat whose extraordinary administration of a defeated Japan rebuilt a defeated feudal nation into a democracy and economic powerhouse. Read this and you'll be eager to read Manchester's multiple edition biography of Churchill, the final book of which is due out this September.
It's hard to believe that MacArthur is not a fictional character. That a man so bold, egotistical, and brazen truly lived. But he did. Manchester does a great job of depicting the good and the bad that was Douglas MacArthur. From victories in the Philippines to Japan, escape to Australia, and being relieved by Truman in Korea, this book is an exhaustive look at the complex character of one of only five U.S. Men to achieve the rank of five-star General. Definitely one I'd recommend.
