https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77604.Fer_de_Lance
I am happy to say the personalities of the series' two main characters made them stand as equals among the greatest fictional detectives, including the ones I mentioned.
For the people unfamiliar with the series, the two main characters are Nero Wolfe, a Yugoslavian immigrant and his secretary/bodyguard/sidekick Archie Goodwin who is as American as they come.
Nero Wolfe is fat (one of the book mentions he weights one seventh of a ton) and lazy who often has to be forced into taking a job by Archie Goodwin using different persuasion methods.
He is also charged with bringing the witnesses to Wolfe's home to be interrogated by the great detective himself.
Back with a couple of old friends! I may not remember which of the Nero Wolfe mysteries I read *mumble* around thirty five years ago, but I remember Archie's cheeky insouciance and Nero's eccentricities. There is real affection in their relationship;  He always thought he had a handkerchief in the breast pocket of his coat, but rarely did, so I went to the drawer where I kept a stack for him and got one and handed it to him.  But there is never any doubt who is boss!. Archie may give a bit of li
I may not remember which of the Nero Wolfe mysteries I read *mumble* around thirty five years ago, but I remember Archie's cheeky insouciance and Nero's eccentricities.
Archie may give a bit of lip, but he does what he is told.
And his love of glasses of milk is there from the beginning - as are Nero's weight problems.
I love the way this series just dives into their lives - no tedious back story.Bright and breezy tale about two murders.
Dated slang,( my kindle dictionaries came in handy here!) including one racist term I have never heard before.I didn't know what a roadster was!
Not much, but a little.Still, the cast of characters is fascinating, and the novel is full of action and humor.The two main characters, of course, are Nero Wolfe, and Archie Goodwin, the narrator.Wolfe is an obese alcoholic.
(hide spoiler)]I'm a lifelong New Yorker who grew up in Westchester County, so it was great fun to read about NY City and Westchester in 1933.
Ya wanna make somethin' of it, tough guy?...Yeah, that's what I thought.Actually, Fre-de-Lance by Rex Stout is more cerebral than tough-guy as far as detective fiction goes.
One of the early ones in the detective genre, Fer-de-Lance leaves the reader guessing who killed who and why.
Well, as one of the longer books in the Wolfe series, Fer-de-Lance lumbers along at a slower pace than necessary, adding more pages than are probably needed to tell this tale.
Plus, this being one of the early detective stories, he didn't have down pat the bebop-beat timing and double-time swinging pace that hardboiled detective fiction would eventually be known for.
It is the relationship between Wolfe and Goodwin that is part of the appeal of the series.
Archie is the narrator in all the stories.In this debut novel the plot involves the murders of an Italian immigrant and a college professor.
The story is more of how is Wolfe going to prove it?
It is just a matter of setting the trap and getting the murderer to trip it.Having read most of the books in the series, if not all, I am probably rereading this with some bias.
I was first introduced to Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin when I was a teenager.
Generally I bump up the first book in a good series by 1 star, but I won't in this case.
Still, it was a good mystery & I really liked the way Stout made it feel as if it was more in the middle of the series.
Archie has worked for Wolfe for 7 years & many other details added to the feel.One downside to this was that although I downloaded it from the library as electronic files, I was continually instructed to flip the cassette & continue on the other side or go to the next one.
The plot is involved, complicated and involves a great deal of investigation by Archie – including him having to continually bring witnesses to Wolfe’s lair for interviews and interrogation.This was a good start to a series which seems to be more about characters than the actual plot.
The actual crime itself was a little long winded and overly complicated at times, but I certainly enjoyed the characters and would be happy to re-visit Nero Wolfe again and will continue reading the series.
There are two heroes: Nero Wolfe is a morbidly obese genius who never leaves his house, spends his days tending orchids and solving murders from pieces of evidence brought to him by his minions.
Wolfe ocassionally goes into manic states where he drops all detective work, and spends weeks in the kitchen with his chef designing exotic gourmet dishes.
Wolfe's sidekick and chief man-of-action is Archie Leach, a wise-cracking and resourceful guy who compliments his intellectual boss.
The comedy often revolves around the love-hate relationship between Archie and Nero Wolfe.
I'd recommend these books to anyone who thinks they wouldn't like a detective novel.
But the main thing I noticed was that this first book in the series reads as if it is from the middle of the series, in the sense that Wolfe & all his cohorts are presented as having been together for a while and this is just one more case.
Glad I read/listened to it but it isn't as good as some of the other books in the series...This audiobook is a reissue of the old Books on Tape audio cassette recording.
I am disappointed in Penguin/Random House in releasing this digital edition without editing out the "this is the end of side one, turn the tape over to listen to side two" bits!
I was a bit let-down given the popularity of the Nero Wolfe series. Well-written, well-crafted mystery. I don't want to spend one more minute with Archie, the narrator. If the story was told in the third-person, I'd probably read a few more over the years. As it is, the 1930’s slang of a less-educated sidekick was not an appealing place to live for the week or so it took me to read this.
I picked it up about a week ago, expecting a quick, fun read, but was sorely disappointed.I found myself disliking nearly every character in the book, including the corpulent, agoraphobic Nero Wolfe and his closest employee, the wise-cracking, milk-drinking Archie Goodwin.
Characters popped in and out of the book, and events happened either too quickly or off the page for me to comprehend.
The titular snake, the fer-de-lance, doesn't make an appearance until the last 100 pages of the book, and is disposed of entirely too quickly and anti-climactically.The thing I disliked most about the novel, however, was the blatant racism and sexism rampant throughout.
It's safe to say I won't be continuing to read the adventures of Goodwin and Wolfe.
This was my first reading of a Nero Wolfe novel, and I enjoyed it quite a bit, though the characters are not really ones I would seek out.
I was impressed with the author’s pithy language: one of the things I hold against noir is its relentless fealty to cliché, and Stout’s writing feels like noir but uses a lot of surprising but apt imagery.For those unfamiliar with the Nero Wolfe detective series, Wolfe is a morbidly obese New York City recluse with a passion for beer, orchids, and mysteries.
Fer-de-Lance is the first novel in the series, published in 1934.
Or rather Sherlock Holmes and Dr Watson, since in some ways Archie Godwin is to Nero Wolfe what Dr Watson is to Holmes.
Archie is our narrator, the one who gives us a look at Nero's genius--but he's also less and more than Watson.
Nero Wolfe?
The plot involving the murders of an Italian Immigrant and a wealthy patrician college president hung together well, with more than one clever twist, and this was a fun period piece, set in the Prohibition Era--the first in the series and published in 1934--but it's Archie and Nero and their interactions that really make this so fun to read.
I put this on my wish list some 5 years ago when I thought I might be in the mood to read some mysteries.
I loved the series - not just the stories, which were terrific, but it was very cinematic and it was fun to see the supporting actors in differing roles where they were almost unrecognizable from the role they had last played.Today I am wondering what took me so long to read this first in the series.
I loved it.
Because there are so many books I want to read, I have no idea when I'll get to another Nero Wolfe.
This is special and different.
Unexpected things happen.The author’s mind is quirky - like he comes from another place.
So many authors sound alike when it comes to mysteries.
Rex Stout is different.
I would read more mysteries if they were like this.The author began writing the Nero Wolfe series in 1934.
Nero Wolfe is an extremely obese man who doesn’t like to leave his home.
Archie Goodwin works for him and does the investigating, errands, and running around.This is the first book in the series.
They can be read as stand alones.The audiobook narrator Michael Prichard was good.DATA:Narrative mode: 1st person Archie.
Fer-de-Lance is the 1st Nero Wolfe mystery by Rex Stout, and the 2nd I have read.
just fun to read.
I usually recommend reading series in order, but you could probably pick up any of these.
1) The original Nero Wolfe series is by Rex Stout.
There are other Wolfe books by Robert Goldsborough written in the 80-90s.
I haven't read those.2) There are many, many books in Stout's series!
Check out stopyourkillingme.com for a list.
(What a great site for mystery fans, with chronological lists by author or main character.
Thanks to site creator Bonny Brown and webmasters Lucinda Surber & Stan Ulrich.)
Un peso massimo che ama le orchidee, vive con un cuoco, che vorrei anch’io a casa mia, e con il suo braccio destro Archie Goldwin, non esce mai di casa, ma sa sempre tutto e ha tante piccole manie: conserva i tappi delle bottiglie di birra che beve, si chiude in camera la notte, riceve solo in alcune ore del giorno e ha anche lui le paturnie.
Non come quelle storie di altri giallisti in cui alla fine della storia compaiono mille indizi nuovi di cui nessuno ha mai parlato prima nel disvelamento del colpevole.
Decades ago, I read many of the 33 books and short stories penned by Rex Stout starting in 1934 and loved them.
Everything I enjoyed back then held true for me today and just confirmed why these books have held up so well over the years.Corpulent, beer-drinking, orchid-loving, gourmand Nero Wolfe is the eccentric genius at the heart of these murder mysteries.
As Archie explains to the daughter of the murder victim, "Wolfe says he feels phenomena and I look for facts.".What struck me this time around is how fully formed these books are right from this first one.
The rest of this is my original review:I'd heard good things about Rex Stout, but must admit I was rather disappointed with this book, the first in his classic series about overweight detective Nero Wolfe and his sidekick Archie Goodwin.
I'll admit I found some of these sections rather boring and in general found it hard to warm to Wolfe and his roundabout style of conversation.
This is the first book in the classic Nero Wolfe series.
It introduces the eccentric but genius Nero Wolfe who lives in an old brownstone in New York.
We are also introduced to Archie Goodwin, Wolfe’s assistant.
This story revolves around the murders of an Italian immigrant and wealthy college professor.
Even this first book of the series is well conceived with a dynamic plot to solve these murders.
The partnership between Wolfe and Archie Goodwin is appealing and engaging.
These classic detective stories from the 30’s, 40’s and 50’s and fun to read.
First Sentence: There was no reason why I shouldn’t have been sent for the beer that day, for the last ends of the Fairmont National Bank case had been gathered in the week before and there was nothing for me to do but errands, and Wolfe never hesitated about running me down to Murray Street for a can of shoe-polish if he happened to need one.Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin’s first published case becomes one of two parts; a young woman hires Wolfe to find her missing brother, and a college president has been murdered on the golf course.
The link: a golf club.The fun of reading Nero Wolfe is not the plot, although this one did have a good twist to it, but for the characters.
The only author whom I have been reading lately that does an equal job of establishing a sense of PLACE, of CIRCUMSTANCE, with description, with word choices, would be Nora Roberts ...When I’m driving I don’t see much of anything except the road, for I have the type of mind that gets on a job and stays there until it’s time for another one.
I thought to myself that they couldn’t make a carpet if it cost ten thousand dollars that would be as nice to walk on as that grass.Stout, Rex. Fer-de-Lance (A Nero Wolfe Mystery Book 1) (p.
(hide spoiler)]If I can manage to read the other 72 mysteries by year's end, they'll go a long way toward those 289 books.
The books in Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe series are one of my "comfort food" reads.
Fortunately my memory is bad enough that, given a year or so, I forget most of the mystery endings and who a lot of the bad guys were.Fer de Lance is the first book in the Nero Wolfe series, and sets the reader down right in the middle of the Wolfe household, just as though this was the fifteenth book instead of the first.
You'd think Stout had been writing about these characters for years.The snappy and humorous delivery of Archie Goodwin, who tells these stories in first person, is a lot of the appeal.
This is the first Nero Wolfe mystery novel, published in 1934, and it was way more fun than I was expecting.
It’s set in a New York city in the grip of the Great Depression, at the end of prohibition.Wolfe is a sedentary, obese, eccentric genius who rarely leaves his house.
You must pardon me; for engineering reasons I arise only for emergencies.") The story is narrated by his more spry assistant Archie Goodwin, who does all of the leg work, driving around town in his Roadster and offering generous $3 bribes for information from witnesses.The murder mystery itself is pretty good, but more interesting is the lively interaction between Wolfe and Archie.
I've been told that with the Nero Wolfe series, some are better than others. I read the 7th one first and it was good, better than this one. I love Archie Goodwin and his sense of humor. I enjoy the 1930's New York setting and I'll be reading more. There is a prologue to this book that states that they don't have to be read in order, so I'll be cherry picking the highest rated on Goodreads. :)
Just the education I wanted!But the worst sin, when it comes to a sprawling old-timey mystery series, is that I don't care about either of the main characters.
There is nothing here that makes me interested or intrigued by either Wolfe or Archie; I don't care to see what happens to them or how their relationship develops.
Estleman makes a good case for why the unchanging nature of Wolfe and Archie and their adventures can be a boon for a certain type of reader -- you can pick up any book from any point in the series at any time!
The woman is Maria Maffei, a friend of Mrs. Durkin, and she wants to hire Wolfe to find her missing brother Carlo.
Before long, Wolfe has connected Carlo--a metalworker--with the death of a well-respected university president, who dropped dead of a heart attack on the links of a Westchester County golf course.
And what ever happened to Carlo Maffei?This is the very first Nero Wolfe novel.
This story also contains the first recorded attempt on Wolfe's life--at least, in Stout's works.
The first in the series written in 1936, “Fer-De-Lance” was very entertaining and well-written.
Although Nero Wolf solved mysteries through observation and critical thinking much like Agatha Christie’s Poirot, instead of using his “Little Grey Cells”, Archie reports, “I never would understand how he could make his brain work so fast and deep that no other man in the country could touch him.
He replied, also as he had before, that it wasn’t his brain that worked, it was his lower nerve centers.” Wolf was a calm, meditative counterpoint to Archie’s spirited, active personality The murder plot in this one was pretty unbelievable, but entertaining.
I find many phrases I want to remember and use myself.
The relationship between Nero and Archie is interesting.
I think Archie tries to understand Nero by knows he won’t ever and that he is okay being the footwork man for this eccentric genius.
You are interested by him, but you don’t want to be him.
This is the first book, and used the most unlikely murder weapon ( according to one reviewer) I look forward to reading more Stout.
This was one of the Fanklin printed books.
The clean white pages are wonderful contrast to the crisp printing, it was a joy to read.

