https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130515.The_Old_Patagonian_Express
After completion I view this in two ways, when describing the changing landscape, his thoughts on the countries he passes, and his experiences of being on the trains, it definitely has the feel of a dairy or journal, however, when meeting people or having conversations you can't help read it like a novel, apart from that is when he gets to hang out with Jorge Luis Borges in Buenos Aires.Starting on the Boston subway on a freezing cold day, Theroux sets off on his adventure, after stopping in Chicago he heads south through Mississippi, Texas and before you know it we are in Mexico, this all happens within the first 50 pages or so, so the bulk of reading is set mostly in central and south America.
And anyway, trains often ran late or were halted en route - sometimes for significant periods of time.He initially positioned himself as an inquisitive but mildly truculent traveller, but as the journey progressed he seemed to relax into the pace of it and provided, increasingly, glimpses of not only his humour but also his intelligence and his powers of observation.
When he met the local mortician, who also happened to sing with in barber shop quartet, he observed in his voice: a melodious croon, a singer’s modulation and a morticians concerned coo.I listened to this book on audio, read superbly by Norman Dietz who was brilliantly able to mimic a range of accents that (to me) seemed to bring a degree of local colour to the conversations.
They are not tourist guides, not for those planning to travel to the countries Theroux visits.
Theroux travels to places people do not go to, avoiding large cities as much as possible.
He knows books and he has seen so much of the world and he has taken the time to think about what he has seen and what he has read.Political events of the time are interwoven; these being the things people he meets talk of.
When Jorge Luis Borges and Theroux get talking about books, it is a unique experience to listen in on.
But I decided to read The Old Patagonia Express because a friend reminded me that he travels to South America in this book.
In my case few people have the time or inclination to travel the way I do, so I tend to visit friends in far flung places and combine work with leisure travel.
The Peru and Panama he writes of no longer exist and are far different from what I encountered in visits to these two countries in the last two years.
Theroux is hard to read not due to the complexity of his prose, but because of his voice.
What distinguishes Theroux from other misanthropes who may be worth reading is that he himself does not offer much to the reader with regards to intellect or insight.
His cultural critiques and personal critiques of the people he encounters in his travels are sophomoric at best.
Every person or place he encounters serves as a platform for his personal self - aggrandizement.
If there is any other author who has written about his or her railroad excursions through the Americas, I would much rather read them.
Now I've returned to another of his non-fiction work, namely The Old Patagonian Express: By Train Through the Americas (1979).As the name suggests, Theroux traveled from his home in Boston all the way down to Esquel, Patagonia (Argentina).
In Costa Rica and Panama, he could only travel on train within the country because the railways don't cross any borders.It is very difficult for me to find books set in Central America.
This is one of the main reason why I picked up Theroux's The Old Patagonian Express: By Train Through the Americas.
In Ecuador, he exclusively traveled by plane because the trains were always fully booked.
At the beginning of his train trip he meets a self-centered young woman who gives him a rundown of her dietary needs and "sensitivities." She is a the first of many people who will annoy and confound him.
He hates everyone and everything but manages to describe it all in hilarious prose.I know many people dislike his grouchy persona - they wonder why he even travels.
Luckily I was young enough to ignore discomfort so that I could enjoy new vistas and people.I will always keep my worn copy of this book.
Then when they lure you into a conversation, they ask you all sorts of questions about yourself, who you are and where you're headed, then, because they have all the time in the world to waste and nothing better or more productive to do, they start asking you about your opinions on philosophy and politics and religion and more, (all those sensitive topics - my grandmother always says there are two things you cannot talk to people about and that's religion and politics, and she was a teacher too) to just walk away without having any input of their own, to judge you and feel good about themselves.
I would hate to meet him.I might just re-read Dark Star Safari now, perhaps I've matured enough now to notice that's not such a good book anymore either.
There are parts in this book which I find brilliant, funny, entertaining, and even deep.
A description of reading Lovecraft on a train full of people that probably thought the name referred to something naughty is quite good for example.
It's just a little too much of this book.
I think I might have liked it more in shorter form because in the end it was starting to feel like challenge to finish.
Maybe it was just too long a trip for the book.
Or maybe I didn't feel like going all this way with Theroux.
He is a good writer though.
This is probably my second re-read of Paul Theroux's travel classic of a railroad journey from Boston to as far south as he could go in the Americas.
The Old Patagonian Express: By Train Through the Americas is an unusually snarky look at Latin America and its people, but then his views are typical of the period in which the book was written some forty years ago.Still, it is Theroux and Bruce Chatwin who led me to travel to South America.
His observations are always interesting, even when they do not entirely convince me.
why anybody would want to waste their time reading this judgmental, curmudgeon of a book by a guy who doesn't even want to visit anything, yet is so cocky in calling himself a traveler and not a tourist, is beyond me... reminds me way too much of an old professor i once dated. and, no, i did not continue wasting my time on this book after 100 pages or so. don't bother!
still one of the best travel and train journies. i admire is ability to sit and i did trains...!
Paul is undoubtedly the Best in his class and he is never afraid of calling a place what it actually is.In The Old Patagonian Express, Theroux takes us on a Journey; and literally a journey with the starting point and destination just posing as ancilliary for this whole book.
I will never get to see the South America Theroux described when he traveled, with poverty and only a mild tinge of modernisation, which in present times might make all the places quite mundane.
It is fairly justified that Theroux's work is not for everyone; especially those seeking Travelbrochures in books.
He talks about his inner thoughts and emotions on the train a lot, but isn't that a big part of why we read travel books?
Travel writing that is merely about describing the sensory experience might seem appealing, but it seems to always end up being a frightful bore.Maybe he really is a curmudgeon and a jerk and I'm one, too, for empathizing with him...but I doubt it.This Theroux book was special to me as I want to visit South America more than anywhere else.
Theroux's brand of traveling - seeing the day-to-day sights of a place by train and visiting historic sites that are off the tourist track - is spot-on.
Meeting many different types of characters, Theroux's interactions with them range from slight bemusement to indifference.
He does not suffer fools, but Theroux shows great humanity when describing the poverty and the hopelessness that he sees throughout his travels.
Most touching are the boys he sees living in the doorway of a building in a small town in Peru.
One chapter deals with Theroux's interaction with famed Argentinian writer Jorge Luis Borges, with whom Theroux enjoys Kipling, language, and food.
I'd have to say this is one of the best travel adventures I've read from the last half century.
Stary ekspres patagoński to książka kupiona przeze mnie z dwóch powodów. Po pierwsze zachęcona zostałam do autora, a wybrałam akurat ten tytuł, bo świetnie pasował do wyzwania południowoamerykańskiego. Niestety moja przyjaźń z Theroux na tej książce raczej się skończy.Lata siedemdziesiąte XX wieku, Theroux postanawia przemierzyć oba kontynenty amerykańskie pociągiem. Wyrusza więc na południe, zasiada przy oknie, zaczyna czytać i właściwie alienuje się od współpasażerów. Zza grzbietu książki spogląda oczywiście, obserwuje ale wydaje się nie być zainteresowany bliższym kontaktem. Nieliczne rozmowy służą mu do piętnowania bolączek Ameryk - bieda, analfabetyzm, przemoc. Trudno tu szukać pozytywnych spostrzeżeń.Ciąg dalszy: http://przeczytalamksiazke.blogspot.p...
i love travel narrative and trains so i thought i'd love this but i gave it one star because the author is such a condescending prat to the people he meets. He manages to make sure his ideas stay intact and wipe away their whole philosophies with a puff of pipe smoke. I had to quit reading it. I'll go back to it and update my review when my prat-o-meter gets set back to zero. might take a while.
Paul Theroux rocks my world. Sarcastic, at times down right irreverent. Very insightful.
If you're a bottom line man, and I know at heart, you are :), Paul Theroux's The Old Patagonian Express is a good read.
I started to read Paul Theroux's The Old Patagonian Express: By Train Through the Americas (Mariner 1979) because I immediately liked his voice as a writer.
At times the division between culture and/or language is obvious and Theroux sometimes becomes a kind of interpreter of the division, during which points, I suppose, he could be seen as committing the crime he describes in the introduction that made my friend put the book down.
There is something more fascinating than fiction in this very factual journey and equally detailed description of the trains, the places, the people and his feelings with helpful servings of interesting history.
I still have some more chapters and am sure some more fascinating old trains to get acquainted with before I reach Patagonia.
It is a most beautiful book and the most charming aspect of this whole journey are the trains of course mostly old but chugging away…“‘It’s coming,’ says a woman in Marquez’s Macondo, when she sees the first train approach the little town.
My favorite authors that I presently focus on include David McCollough, Cormac McCarthy, Larry McMurtry, John Sandford and the author of this book......Paul Theroux.
I have read many of his non-fiction travel adventures and some of his fiction including "The Mosquito Coast" and found them all exceptional.
Theroux is often criticized for his cynicism and the intensity of his opinions, but I found this book to be elegantly written with prose and observations that were vivid and thought provoking.
Theroux is a politically correct person and one of the greatest challenges to political correctness is to read those opinions thirty-five years later and have them be fresh.
I first read Paul Theroux's travel books as a socially awkward middle schooler who dreamed of voyages to Borneo and Namibia.
And more than a decade later, I'm still a fan.
While he's caustic and unforgiving,he's fair.
He takes his scalpel to social dysfunction in El Salvador, boorish Yanks in Costa Rica, and the Duck Soup-level absurdity of the Canal Zone.
And it concludes with Theroux strolling around Buenos Aires with Borges, which sounds almost too divine for words.*BONUS POINT: "Travel for him, as for many others, was just another way of saving money." If you've ever backpacked, this line is pure gold.

Lots of beautiful observations, and a great story, but Theroux is bit of a condescending dick, isn't he? I almost gave up at the beginning when he started mocking Wendy the raw food eater. "Uttering rosy generalities in her sweetly tremulous voice [...] she was an example of total self-absorption and desperate self-advertisement." Well if that ain't the pot calling the kettle black.
Felt like a really long book. I enjoyed it more from El Salvador onwards, although I personally find his writing style is, I don't know, maybe too detailed to keep my full attention.
The most boring of the bunch.
Theroux takes a train from Boston and as others get off to go to work, he carries on to Patagonia.
This thrills him no end - after all, it's the old dream, isn't it?
Travel to the end of the world and then write about it.
His solitude and his books remain his sole companions through the two months it takes him to reach his destination.
Through it all, Theroux remains his curmudgeonly self, observant and judgemental, with a dry and dark humour enveloping it all.
The continent, I am sure has changed much in the last 40 years since he wrote this book.
I'd always heard that Theroux is cynical and negative and grumpy, so I was prepared to dislike him and his style, and for the first few chapters of this book I felt that.
I'm not denying that there is a New England snobbery about him, but I find it endearing rather than offensive.
Although this book is nearly 40 years old and most of the places he visited have changed dramatically, there were very few moments when his words felt dated (wtf is stomach cement?).
And having recently visited a few areas of Latin America that Theroux passed through, I found his observations accurate and beautiful.
I guess I have a new literary crush now.
3 1/2
The Old Patagonian Express is a sequel of sorts to one of my all-time favorite books, The Great Railway Bazaar. Given that Theroux continues his round the world rail journey, this time in the Americas. I reread The Great Railway Bazaar at least once a year and although I enjoyed The Old Patagonian Express I have a hard time seeing myself returning to it anytime soon. None of it left much of an impression on me unlike his train journey through Europe and Asia.
