https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/273511.Midnight
We're kind of hard-ass parents, so we're making her write book reviews during the summer (when we let her take a break from math).
Which book did you read?I read Warriors: The New Prophecy: Midnight2.
What was the book about?The book was about four cats that were chosen by their warrior ancestors, StarClan, to go seek advice from a badger named Midnight.
Midnight is the only badger in her tribe that can understand cat language.
What was your favorite part of the book?My favorite part was when rats attacked the traveling group of cats because it was interesting and full of action.
I love the warriors series.
But in this one absolutely NOTHING HAPPENED!It was just like..(sing to the tune of "Follow the Leader")"WE'RE GOING ON A JOURNEY,A JOURNEY,A JOURNEYWE'RE GOING ON A JOURNEY, OR ELSE OUR CLANS WILL DIE!"and even thought they all new the clans were in trouble, the six cats on the journey were in no apparent hurry to get home.Well ok, something did happen.They found midnight.thats it...:)My favorite character in this book was Squirrelpaw.
She kinda reminded me of the annoying orange."HEY HEY BRAMBLECLAW(apple)!
HEY BRAMBLECLAW(apple) HEY!!""WHAT,SQUIRRELPAW(orange), WHAT?!""BADGER(knife)!""AHH!!!!!!!!!!!!"(sounds familiar?)Not to mention how much Crowpaw reminded me of midget apple.sorry.
So Squirrelpaw/Squirrelflight will be Squirrelpaw.Overall, the six books that make up the Warriors: New Prophecy sub-series are excellent.
Although the later three books (Starlight, Twilight and Sunset) are about (view spoiler)[ the politics of the Clans settling into their new home  (hide spoiler)] (which I actually found fascinating but perhaps not everyone will), the first three books (Midnight, Moonrise and Dawn) are full of action and adventure.Although I am a huge fan of the Warriors saga overall, I can see its faults and don't love everything about it.
In the New Prophecy books, we have (view spoiler)[ Leafpaw and Crowpaw  (hide spoiler)].
I cried for a really long time when I realized this new series was no longer in firestar's pov. Middle school me was devastated
4,5 stars
The start of the second series. A new prophecy seems to be leading the cats out of the forest as it is about to be destroyed by humans. New set of POVs with younger cats taking the limelight. Remains very readable.
I felt like this book was set to be a bit of a letdown; after the ending to the first Warriors series, I really don't see how anything could compare.
-Deception, Disgrace, evil as clear as the scar on his faaaace!-I am a fairly easy to please reader, and I don't really try books I know I'm not going to like (like that isn't obvious from my rating average) I don't mind reader filler scenes and introductions so long as there is action somewhere, and from this ending you can tell the series will pick up.

Re-reading this reminds me why this is my least favorite of the Warriors series.I hate Squirrelpaw.
I'm sorry if I can't relate or sympathize with a character who yells at everyone for no reason, has no respect for anyone, constantly talks backs, and gets herself into dangerous situations after being warned and then acts like it's their fault.
There is no way I could ever root for a character like that.
What makes it worse is that I feel as the author wants me to think what a great character she is and how wonderful and brave and strong she is...
Ahora me arrepiento de no haberlo leído antes.Al inicio fue complicado por los personajes nuevos y el cambio de voces protagonistas, pero Zarzoso, Hojarasca, Esquirolina y hasta Puma se metieron ya en mi morado corazón igual que lo hicieron Látigo Gris, Carbonilla y Estrella de Fuego en su momento.El libro puede sentirse lento porque nos cuenta como cuatro gatos, uno de cada clan, son elegidos por el clan Estelar para realizar un viaje que les mostrará un gran peligro que amenaza al bosque y qué hacer para salvar a los clanes.
Y ese final, ya lo veía venir, el giro de "Medianoche" es de esos detalles únicos que nos regalan las autoras, ahora,para variar, ya quiero iniciar con el siguiente libro, aunque debo confesar que solo de imaginar lo que viene, tengo ya sentimientos encontrados.
This was the first warrior cat book I ever read, and it's kind of amazing that I got as into this as I did, because while this is a good, necessary book that not only sets up the rest of this series but the rest of the series after this one, it is s l o w. But I'm pumped to keep going--and tbh, little Brambleclaw,  tiny aggressive Crowpaw , and also Jesus-lover-Feathertail... good times.
Thunder clan.Cinderpelt- medicine cat.
Thunder clan.Purdy- guide, kittypet, friend.
Clanless.SettingIn the deep dark forest by mother mouth and by the deep blue sea by the harsh rocks that looks like teeth.
By the sea is where the cats meet midnight.
ConflictThe forest is being attacked by dirty nasty twolegs who don’t know about the clan cats.
Last they have taken cats.Resolve of conflictThe six cats are trying to get the clans to go away from the forest which is being demolished.
But in the end they surviveRecommendation I would recommend it to anyone who likes adventure and cats.
Like for my reveiw for the 1st book of the original Warriors series, I'm going to bundle my reveiw to those I've read into one.
In the first 3 books of this series, the forest is being torn about by Twolegs and their monsters and Starclan has chosen warriors from different clans for a secrety mission that will save all the clans of the forest.
Brambleclaw must hide this mission from his clan and with the help of the other chosen cats plus a few close friends, must travel far from home to find a new home for the clans before their clans are destroyed by the twolegs.
If you like the original Warriors, this 2nd series is a must read.
The New Prophecy - and probably all the other series - isn't as good as the original, in my opinion.
I still LOVE the books, but if I'm comparing them, the original is the best, and probably always will be.
In this book we change out of Firestar's kind of perspective, which is nice after having a whole series with his perspective.
It still centres around ThunderClan like the original series, but it's great to change perspective.
Exciting book and I really loved it, just not the best compared to the original series books.For more information about this book and others, check out my YouTube channel: www.youtube.com/TheDougieowner
Yeah, it's time to follow the next generation of warriors!
This is the first book of the 2nd arc, The New Prophecy, WARRIORS.
Lot's of exciting stuff happens and we learn a lot, as new characters come into this series.
The book alternated between different viewpoints which is good, as it propels the story forward and they always start at a different viewpoint when something really exciting happens.
This means it's really hard to put the book down and makes it more enjoyable in my opinion.
Full of thrilling suspence, gasps and overall a really enjoyable book.
Este primer libro de la segunda saga me tenía nerviosa y emocionada por lo perfecta que es la primera saga.
Me va gustado casi tanto como la anterior y se puede comenzar a leer sin leer la primera porque explican lo necesario.
Casi al final el libro se vuelve algo lento y tedioso, honestamente ahí pensé en no continuar leyendo, pero en el momento perfecto té inyectan la dosis necesaria de adrenalina y siento que incluso lo difícil que se había sido seguir el hilo del libro es para sentirte más identificado con los personajes.
Hmmmmmmmm..... New main character, and what's this???? Switching off from other cats views?? Wow. Having this been the first time reading a book where different chapters had different view points from different characters, it was a little much to comprehend. However, it was a good read, with a new plot, and later in the future revealing that the next series would come together to make the best plot eva!!!
Reseña completa en mi blog: La cueva de Danny.Entretenido, muy introductorio y que le falto mucha acción que espero, con ese final, que el siguiente este mucho mejor que este porque este simplemente es muy lento.
I realy wanted to enjoy this book but sadly I didnt. It was a bit to childish for me now and I found it that boring that I couldnt put myself threw finishing it (i didnt even make half way)If I was you I wouldnt read it! Thanks for reading! :)
this book is really good because i'm he kind of person who loves books about animals. This book has lots of adventure in it it's really really good. It makes you want to keep on reading and reading forever.
I loved it! it was a good book with great new and old characters from the old series. Quite interesting as well.
Leafpaw is having visions of her sister, Squirrelpaw and what she faces while Brambleclaw got a new prophecy: Darkness, Air, Water, And sky will shake the forest to its roots.
(But Firestars other daughter, Squirrelpaw and another Riverclan warrior, Stormfur, came for extra protection on a long journey to a place that is very dangerous.) The 6 cats are all going on an adventure to a sun-drown-place, when the sun goes down, it is red and the water is salty and there is a huge cave with sharp teeth.

Das war richtig langweilig.Erstmal ist sehr sehr wenig passiert. Und dann war das was passiert ist nicht mal wirklich wichtig.Eine Mission wird vom Sternenclan aus gesandt, um herauszufinden was in Zukunft mit dem Wald passiert. Zum Schluss erfahren die 6 Katzen, dass eine Autobahn durch den Wald gebaut werden soll und die Clans fliehen müssen. Soweit so gut.Gleichzeitig bekommen die Clans im Wald, die Veränderung schon zu spüren!WARUM MUSSTEN DIE ALSO SO EWIG REISEN?!?!?
Am Anfang habe ich mir noch schwer getan, die Katze zu unterscheiden und die Welt zu verstehen, aber ich muss sagen, so als Kinder- bzw. Jugendbuch ist es nicht schlecht. Ich will sogar wissen wies weitergeht.
ICONIC!!!
Very good, just like the previous series! This first book opens the second series very well and leaves one wanting more!
This was is a great start to the next step in the series, but it still doesn't change the fact that I know what is going to happen.
Adventure is on almost every page!! This book is only a little sad, and very happy. It's filled with adventure and i always want to know what happens. I want to give this book a million stars!
Betyg: 4,5 / 5Som vanligt rolig, fantasifull och spännande.
