https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1643618.Tomorrow_is_Forever
Sorry, but I just can't bring myself to finish this, I yield at 65%. I love Bristow's other stories, but there just isn't a story here - just endless anti-war propaganda. Bristow clearly has an agenda, but as much as I am opposed to war (any war), I can't bear to be clubbed over the head with her rhetoric. Moving on...
I liked the concept of the book when i read what it was about and the book grabbed me the first couple pages but it soon lost me after that. It was a bit of a chore to get through.
A book that I will always remember. This is one of the first romance novels that I've ever read and it was so beautiful of a story. I had to recommend it to my mom and even she, who is not a big reader, loved it.
Language is a bit dated, but could be overcome if the plot was stronger. A good central idea, but not developed in ways it could have been.
I am reading my way through Gwen Bristow’s books and I found this my least favorite by far. Maybe it was because when she wrote this it was much more contemporary to her time period than her other novels. I found the book very preachy with lots of pages long “conversations.” I didn’t think there was a lot of character development and I found the whole concept rather weird.
An excellent read!
Ancient conversations of war are still so current, from WWI – WWII and beyond.This clever book had an interesting twist which made me daydream about how I could possibly handle such a dilemma.
Her work is extremely well-written with a very well developed plot.
She was the mother of three lovely children and spent her time making sure life was pleasant for all of them.
It seemed that she lived a golden life; but looks could be deceiving.
For Elizabeth Herlong was still, at times, mourning the death of her first husband, Arthur.
Elizabeth and Arthur Kittredge were married when they were quite young.
She eventually met and married Spratt Herlong and for twenty-five years lived happily with him.
At about the same time, Spratt brought a new writer home to meet his family.
I liked some of the concepts and ideas presented and I cared enough about the characters to find out what happens, but I found myself having to force my way through the book.
Only time will tell.I think the concept I found most interesting was the idea that World War II wasn't fought just to stop Hitler and the fascists.
The reason was that Hitler and the fascists wanted to return us to a time of barbarianism and we fought to restore the natural order of progression.
I also liked how Gwen was able to take this world-wide conflict and show that it's an internal conflict that people face on a daily basis.
This is very unlike other Bristow books.
The story focuses on a prestigious Hollywood family who was somewhat isolated from the war until it was time for their oldest child to enlist.
The pros and cons of war, immigration, and political might become the main themes of the book.
It seems like Bristow used the story of this family to explore and justify WWII to a public who were questioning the US involvement.
It explores when a philosophy of life is worth defending and at what expense.
While I liked the premise, it fell a little short.This book ended up feeling like an treatise on war, marriage, and how people ruin their own lives without intending to because of the fear of moving on.
Good thing I found the ideas fascinating.
And I think I ended up being disappointed in how the story played out.
With a little effort, this story could have been gripping while still expounding on the themes of war, love, marriage and self defeating behaviors.
Even as I write that, I think it was a lot to take on in a 250 page book.Good, but not great.
Book is good - has some plot holes and is rather preachy, although the philosophy presented is interesting.But once again, do not bother with the movie (starring Claudette Colbert and Orson Welles). Colbert is good as always, but Welles was totally miscast as her previous husband, and the story comes across as just a WWII weeper instead of what it truly is -- a new look at the reasons behind fighting the war.
First published in 1943, this is an historical romance that takes place during and after WWII. A very accurate picture of life in southern California during those days, it brought back memories from a childhood spent near the setting for the story during that time. It's a story of tragedy and sacrifice in wartime with elements of Casablanca.
This book is full of the author's views about war and marriage and this book felt like a vehicle for to write those thoughts, using a novel loosely to tell them. 1950s language. It languished for me at times. I have read several books dealing with the subject of about a person presumed dead and then coming back. This one wasn't as good as others I have read.
This is an intregueing novel that blends romance, history of American involvement in the world wars & a unique mystery.Plus, the author uses the novel to present several moral & ethical issues that we all can relate to. Be prepared as the ending may cause tears.
There is something about Bristow's writing that I just don't like. Her dialogs seem so basic and elementary. I did like Mr Kesslers take on war and his conversation with Dick and Elizabeth. I have only read one other book by her (Handsome Road) and I think this one will be my last.
World War II propaganda novel -- intended to entice men to enlist.
Completely unlike anything I've read before. Awesomely profound and poignant, and just as relevant now as in 1944.
Not the same caliber as her other books.
Wonderful bookThis book set in WWII is revel ant for today's world. I lovely look at family life and refugees in the 1940's
Love the era when this story takes place, as well as it's message.
Maybe 3.5 stars. I have mixed feelings about this book. I really like Gwen Bristow's books, but almost put this down several times. I ended up liking it, almost.
Erich Kessler is the man-splainer of all man-splainers.
I read this book many many years ago and always wanted to find it again. It had a lot of significance to me when I first read it and so was interesting to read again.
