https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101323.What_Is_History_
Carr was an eminent Russian historian and it is fascinating to get a look into the making of history, how the vision has changed from century to century… how the scarcity of facts makes the writing of history both easier and harder, the specific problems of 'contemporary history.' The issue I find especially important is the lens through which an historian assembles his or her facts for analysis--that people need to understand that it's not "I read this" ergo it's true.
Which school of historiography (the study of the writing of history) do they consciously or unconsciously take as their own?
Until recently, every time I paged through it I couldn't help but deride its maddeningly simple-minded premise: in a series of lectures at Cambridge in the 1950s, Carr set out to actually answer the question what is history.Is history a science?
He builds on these simple questions and lays out a truly compelling progressive theory of history.
He lets you in on conversations he's been having with himself about his profession, the thing that clearly animates his entire life, and it's an honest and rare little inspiration.Plus, he gently mocks conservatives now and then.
In history the question is sometimes discussed under the rubric 'the cost of progress' or 'the price of revolution.' This is misleading.
Exploring the study of history31 December 2011 This book is not actually a book on history per se but rather an exploration of the discipline of history. This is the main reason that I consider it philosophy as it is not looking at a specific historical event, or looking at the history of civilisation but rather taking a step back and exploring what it is that historians do. This is something that many of us generally take foregranted when we look and an historical event. Many of us will discuss
As mentioned our context is going to colour the way we interpret history, particularly when it comes to the concept of cause and effect.
However, come the late 19th Century, the concept of causes changed again and now many of us look at economic causes as being the reason behind many historical events.
Either way, my position is that this single, accidental (or divine) event pretty much changed the course of history.
Carr assists us in understanding the discipline and also the controversies that arise in the way we interpret it: do we look at single people, accidents, social movements, or economic forces.
There is only one correct answer.The Hard Truth about Historical FactsSo is the job of the historian is simply to collect up all the objective facts, and an accurate account of what actually happened will automatically follow?
He gives examples of the same historian writing different historical accounts depending on the social changes occurring over his lifetime.
He goes so far as to say that one can interpret the social context of the historian by the way he writes his history of the Roman Empire.
My major criticism is that he seems to have been a bit disingenuous in putting his arguments forward in regard to the historian's ability to be objective.
I have not been able to ascertain exactly how one is to distinguish a relativist who is only putting forward a historical fiction from a good historian who has the right facts and the right take on them.
He thus sees himself as a staunch historical objectivist in spite of having given his readers many reasons for considering history to be a relativistic undertaking.
Excerpt from my essay:Carr quickly discredits the notion of history as a universal entity, lambasting Acton’s proposal of an “ultimate history” by indicating that such a concept imposes a complete separation between subject and object.
The 19th century positivist claim that history is a pure science is a false conviction based not on reality but rather, as Carr calls it, a “cult of facts.” Factuality comprises merely one aspect of the historian’s task.
To have meaning, facts must be properly analyzed and assembled by an individual, thereby adding an element of subjectivity to any historical finding.
I am now 47 years, and I read this one when I was 20. It was in my first university (or college, if you are American) and its reading marked me deeply. It came with the emotion of the first really serious studying book. And it made me think a lot about the degree I was about to initiate. In a word, one of the books of my life.
I kinda of liked it. It is a bit repetitive at times, and I found myself agreeing and disagreeing with Carr though that should not matter.
His second answer, therefore, is that history “is a social process, in which individuals are engaged as social beings” and “the record of what one age finds worthy of note in another.” In other words, history looks at the interplay between prominent individuals and their societies and, by incorporating the context of their own age, helps historians and readers understand their present (and, perhaps, future) through the past.After arguing for the inclusion of history as a science in the third chapter, Carr segues into the topic of causation in history in chapter four, where he posits another answer to the “what is history” question, arguing that “[t]he study of history is the study of causes”.
Truly a classic. "The abstract standard or value, divorced from society and divorced from history, is as much an illusion as the abstract individual" (p.84). And, as Lenin said, politics begins where the masses are - in the places where we are.
نویسنده کتاب، محقق و مورخ مشهور در زمینه تاریخ شوروی و انقلاب بلشویکیست و بخش زیادی از نظرات و پرسش و پاسخ های کلی در زمینه تاریخ و فلسفه تاریخ را ارائه کرده، ضمنا بیشتر علاقه مند به نظرات مارکس و منتقد نظرات پوپره
This is the third time i am reading this book.Although the title of the book seem that it might be easy to read.
only when you have read a lot of history and philosophicial discussion of person like Hegel and other historians you can comprehend this book.
So i have put this book in the shelve of to be read again and again and i hope that after many years i may be able to understand this book very well.
But anyone who has read a lot of history books will surely like this book.
Specially academecians, who are reading history in their course.
Ένας μεγάλος Δάσκαλος,ένα σπουδαίο βιβλίο.Γραμμένο τη δεκαετία του '60 και όμως τόσο επίκαιρο!"Μετά τον Μαρξ & τον Φρόυντ,ο ιστορικός δεν έχει πια καμία δικαιολογία να θεωρεί τον εαυτό του αποστασιοποιημένο παρατηρητή,εκτός κοινωνίας και εκτός ιστορίας.Ζούμε τον αιώνα της αυτοσυνείδησης και ο ιστορικός μπορεί και πρέπει να ξέρει τι κάνει."Τι άλλο να προσθέσει κανείς;!Μπορεί να μην είναι ένα πολυσέλιδο έργο,παρ'όλα αυτά διαβάζεται αργά και αρκετά προσεχτικά.
عجب کتاب محشریه ! فلسفهی تاریخه و به یک معنا فلسفهی علوم اجتماعی. در ضمن اینکه سنگین نیست میتونه نگاه آدم رو به تاریخ، واقعیت و... عوض کنه
عجب کتاب محشریه ! فلسفه‌ی تاریخه و به یک معنا فلسفه‌ی علوم اجتماعی. در ضمن اینکه سنگین نیست می‌تونه نگاه آدم رو به تاریخ، واقعیت و... عوض کنه
Carr just puts too much credibility in the validity and Truth of facts.I remember one part of the book when Carr is exploring the nature of History by examining the historical event of Julius Caesar's crossing of the Rubicon.
Carr does a marvelous job at showing exactly what we as historians can and cannot know about this historical narrative but this accomplishment is also his limitation.
While I am not a member of the school of thought that believes that any literary narrative - or historical narrative for that matter - is so fraught with bias, prejudice and misinformation as to be useless to the study of History, I do believe that a theory that is limited to a literary narrative is bound to be ineffective.
This is quite a challenging book, and you have to read it multiple times in order to understand all of what E.H. Carr is saying.It's still a great introduction to historiography.
History is not just about learning facts, but learning about bias in the records and interpreting the importance of events in their social context.
societies in shaping history, and what causes are significant to historians.This book has it all!
If you want to see the historical significance of gingerbread salesmen being kicked to death by a mob, it's here.
If you want to contemplate the importance of monkey bites, it's here too.
(In the Read list and On-Hold list because I cheated and read a study guide that sums this up.
)History....What is it?It isn't the past....but in a way it is.
It's just an interpretation of parts of the past that we find "significant" enough to interpret from others' words and write about in our own.
Remember I didn't read the real book.
Will come back and read it later if I feel up to it).This is all about the question of: What is history?How can it be proven to the best of the ability?What is epistemological about it and it's sources?
This book can be read in two parts.
The first part looks into the material that creates history.
Carr looks into the relation between 'facts of the past', 'historical facts' and 'interpretation'.
The second part of the book can be read as a motivational speech for using reason and the believe in progress to improve society and the individuals living in this society.
On the other hand Carrs optimism and believe in reason (without a local superiourism) is refreshing and works as a humanist baptism in bringing past ideals to live.I recommend this book to anyone interested in the relation between history and today.
Dry as kindlewood, but brilliant book that provides much food for thought.
Not only relevant for the historian, but also a book that ought to be read by anyone wanting to express views about politics without sounding like an utter fool.
Lightyears ahead of it's time it is a scathing condemnation of people wanting to make "Country X great again" and those who think that change is inheritently dangerous.
In short this book is a steeltipped boot firmly planted in the nuts of middle-aged and elderly white men who yearn back to the time before they were shoved off the center stage.
I had to read this in my first year of uni.
For some reason it resonated with me.
Fast forward 35 years later I still have it so I thought to reread it.
My eyes have glazed over at many points, but it still makes you stop and think about history, how it is written, who writes it, and how the social norms and morals of the times affect the history you are reading.
A hard slog to get through at times, but if you catch the little messages along the way, it's worth it.
از متن کتاب: آلمانیها خوشوقت می شوند که قضاوت اخلاقی مورخ به جای آنکه اجتماعی را محکوم کنند که هیتلر را بوجود آورد به نکوهش تبهکاری فردی او بپردازد. مورخ باید درباره ی نهاد قضاوت کند نه درباره ی افردای که آن را بوجود آوردند.پ ن : یکی از بهترین کتابهایی که دیدت رو به مطالعه ی آثار تاریخی عوض می کند
Despite his landmark history of the Soviet Union, this short work dominated E.H. Carr’s entry in ‘Fifty Key Thinkers on History’ (Marnie Hughes-Warrington, Routledge, 2000).The book is essentially the transcripts of a series of Trevelyan lectures delivered in Cambridge in 1961.
Haslam argues that, ultimately, “the distance between Carr and Berlin in respect to their views of history was thus in some respects not as great as the public polemic would suggest; it was with respect to their political beliefs that the distance was undeniable and unlikely ever to be bridged”.
And that historical "facts" aren't purely facts as we know them, because the historian has to select and some form of value/moral-judgment is involved.
Also, an "objective" historian is not one that bases all his records on facts in a disconnected manner, but one who can rise above his society/time to view that incident.
Which i do agree with, since there is inevitably a value judgment involved to determine what facts get recorded in the first place, and how to organise them etc (don't we learn all about that in law..)Perhaps one day i'll go through it again properly :) But anyone studying history or the humanities should read this!
I tell my students all the cliches already: "History is written by the victors"; "History is a cruel joke on the living"; "History is pop culture." (That last one is from Wuhl, by the way.) But Carr apparently got the ball rolling.
To him, studying history means studying the historian.
And to Carr, history must be a continuing dialogue between past and present.
Key word there: dialogue.
You can jump in at the present, but it's helpful to see how the thinkers got to where they got.
It's why we study Anaxagoras and Gorgias, rather than jumping ahead to John Rawles.
In my ideal utopian world everyone is interested in history and this book is on everybody's favorite list. In our less ideal world, this book can still be read by anyone and, for the intellectual snob trapped in all of us, there is at least one brilliant and easily quotable insight per page. I'm not sure the author had Twitter in mind when he wrote this book (it's actually a series of lectures from the 1960s) but his concise witticisms look deliberately crafted for our Soundbite Age. Just for the record, this is a compliment. A humongous one.
This was the definition of a dry read.
I read this for a graduate class, and my purpose in reading the book was to try and develop an understanding of how we think about research and the past.
I did feel like the book made me examine how historians look at the past, I don't think there was anything in this book that I have not thought about before.I have to admit that this book was published in 1961 and my guess is that its target audience was other academic historians.
But, that was my take from the book.
One of the classics of modern thinking about History as a discipline. Simply put--- something every serious History major or graduate student should read...and so should anyone interested in what History as a discipline is and does.
If you have ever considered entering the historical profession or are having difficulty finding yourself within it, this is the essential book to read if you want to situate historical methods and practices in time.
Read this for a class, but it is an extremely useful book form an outside on history and historiography!
Its a tough read and I have just started
