https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/612627.Haircut_and_Other_Stories
it's simple straight forward finely-tuned storytelling and i admire the hell out of it.Just ten stories are found in these pages, including the often and justly anthologized well-known lardner stories like the eponymous "haircut", "i can't breathe", "a day with conrad green", "the love nest" and "the golden honeymoon".
there is a mix of slice of life and the sporting life -- before fitzgerald championed his fiction, lardner was primarily known a sportswriter who loved baseball, and this passion is reflected in the inclusion of "alibi ike" and "horseshoes".in revisiting these stories, i find "i can't breathe" still so knowing -- it is the blue print of the empty-headed love struck teen.
הספר כולל 6 סיפורים קצרים המתארים את ההוויה האמריקאית בשנות ה 20 של המאה ה- 20.סיפורים ביקורתיים ואירוניים שמצביעים על הפגמים בחברה ובאנושות.לטעמי הסיפור הטוב בקובץ הוא "תספורת" ולא בכדי הקובץ נקרא על שם הסיפור החזק הזה."תספורת" היא אחת הסאטירות האפלות ביותר וכאמור הסיפור הטוב ביותר בקובץ.
לאחר שג'ולי גרג מסרבת להיענות לו, הוא משפיל אותה לפני העיר כולה.
אבל ג'ים לא לוקח בחשבון שג'ולי היא אחת מידידותיו היחידות של פול דיקסון.
והנקמה אינה מאחרת להגיע.הסיפור מותח ביקורת על החברה: מעבר לדמותו של ג'ים קנדל האכזרית, הספר עיוור מוסרית עד כדי כך שהוא טועה לראות את הרוע של ג'ים ככיף תמים.
Lardner largely goes under appreciated. Both Faulkner and Hemingway cite him as a major influence and in this collection it is easy to see why. There's a great amount of wit in these stories but also a generous helping of compassion. He writes about blue collar folks with great heart and his ear for dialogue was second to none.
חלקן היו יצירות חשובות ומעניינות אך (אולי בשל הזדרזות יתר להוציאן לאור, או אופי חפיפניקי) תרגומן היה לקוי, רצוף שגיאות, לעיתים באופן שממש הרס את הקריאה ובייש אותן.
בכל זאת האסופה קבלה ביקורות טובות מחברים כאן ב goodreads ובסופו של דבר, כשמצאתי פרוטה בכיסי, רכשתי את הספר.אז לפני ההתייחסות לסיפורים עצמם אתייחס לצד הטכני.
שנית, לרדנר מרבה להשתמש בסלנג ושפה מדוברת שיש בה שגיאות גם במקור, כך שקשה היה להתרשם אם אכן יש בעיה בתרגום או ביתר דיוק היה קל "להחליק" את השגיאות בתירוץ זה.מה שכן הפריע לי הייתה הבחירה לפרסם רק מספר קטן של סיפורים (העורך ידוע כבעל חיבה לספרים קצרים), בשעה שמתכננים בעתיד להוציא לאור עוד יצירות שלו.
"Mother [his wife, KK] set facing the front of the train, as it makes her giddy to ride backwards.
Mostly by letting the protagonists do the talking, Lardner's stories run the gamut of weakness and wickedness with their concomitant hypocrisy in a way that will make you grin from ear to ear.
My favorite was "Champion" - a downright tragic and frighteningly realistic story about a boxing champ who victimizes everyone along the way to the top, but whose reputation nonetheless does not suffer - since he is the champ.
Flannery O'Connor said after reading Catcher in the Rye, "that man owes a lot to Ring Lardner." Yes he does.One of the single greatest laughs ever to be had is in one of these stories - perfectly conceived and executed. And you don't see it coming. A master writer.
Totally captivating collection of stories - funny and delightfully simple. Lardner is truly the master of writing the spoken word. - 1 star for too many stories about baseball :P
Lardner was a master of real-world speech; most of these stories are told exclusively through narration, letters or diary entries, and each reveals character, often unwittingly, and usually hilariously. The flighty teenage girl in "I Can't Breathe" strings along three young men, all of whom believe they're engaged to her; the would-be lovers of "Some Like Them Cold" grow close and then apart via correspondence.
I read three stories out of this anthology and decided that it was enough for now, maybe I will pick it up at a later date.
Lardner is a master of dialect.
"Haircut" is the story of a horrible small town where everyone deserves to die. The young doctor is a decent man but the girl who loves him is ridiculed and humiliated by the town louts -- which is pretty much everyone. So the "nice" doctor decides to get even and -- well, I won't spoil it, but it's pretty grim. Nostalgia causes people to remember Lardner as "an American original" but really his talent was fairly modest. And he didn't like people very much. Not even big dumb ballplayers.
The title Haircut and Other Stories gets it right: this book has the excellent short story "Haircut" and then some other shit. "Haircut" nicely balances text and subtext, argot and tone to be one of the better early 20th century short story I've read. The other stories often stay one-dimensional and despite their brief lengths feel a bit too long.
Most of the time I think "what a beautiful, varied world we live in." And then I read this book and I think "Straight up? Fuck EVERY OTHER COUNTRY EXCEPT AMERICA."I really think that. Ring Lardner is a very patriotic experience for me.
I only read Haircut.
Pretty good stuff. Good enough to get me to Niles, MI to see where he was born. I will certainly read more of Ring. Michiganders stick together.
My first foray into Lardner, and won't be my last. Devoured in record time. More proof that quality and readability aren't necessarily opposites.
Required reading for fans of the short story. Lardner is amazing, his skill with tone, and dialogue,his perfect characterization. Great stories.
I'm a sucker for short stories; especially from pre-1950. Very Steinbeck-esque.
