https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/283901.Tristes_Tropiques
He talks about the Caduveo with their elaborate face-paints, the Bororo peoples' myths and their social structures (the dead seize the living), the sullen and perhaps doomed Nambikwara, and a branch of the Tupi where the wives have multiple husbands.Lévi-Strauss does more than just play up the exotic factors of these different peoples, but he has a more intelligent and learned empathy towards them.
The Nambikwara, the most 'primitive' people there were, were not solely concerned with food and sex as other myth-makers might theorize.
He is morally against the destruction of cultures, but rather the preservation of multiple ones, of separate myths and humanities.This book is wide, varied, idiosyncratic, and defies labels.
This is like Holden Caulfield does anthropology. Immediately bitchy.

Hadrian has written a nice review of this fascinating book, and I will simply refer the reader to his comments (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...).I add only that this is not an academic book, but a memoir and reflexion - a work that will appeal primarily to the literary reader -- a hymn to Rousseau's bon sauvage (a phrase, btw, that J.-J.
Indeed, as the translators point out, regarding the title of this work: "The possible English versions, such as 'Sad Tropics', 'The Sadness of the Tropics', 'Tragic Tropics', etc.
Nice combination of travel memoir, anthropology and confession.
Quyển sách là sự giản dị và chân thành, một dạng kể chuyện đưa người ta vào miền viễn du nơi mà ta không có khả năng đến nhưng có thể hình dung như thể chính mắt mình nhìn thấy, và qua đó, ta cũng biết được cách Levis tiếp cận vấn đề để nghiên cứu về dân tộc học, điều mà cả quyển sách này muốn nói đến.Tôi cũng ghét những thể loại sách du kí, nó hời hợt và nông cạn, nó không đủ khả năng chạm sâu vào cốt lõi của một vùng đất, nó chỉ là hình thức kể chuyện thuần tuý, mà ta đều có thể tìm thấy trên google.
And, like all great books, it bears an absolutely personal stamp; it speaks with a human voice."_______________________________________Only forty pages in and I already sense that this will be one of the best books I've read in the last five years:I wished I had lived in the days of real journeys, when it was still possible to see the full splendor of a spectacle that had not yet been blighted, polluted and spoiled; I wished I had not trodden that ground as myself, but as Bernier, Tavernier, or Manucci did....
"Every effort to understand destroys the object studied...in favor of another object of a different nature;this second object requires from us a new effort...which destroys it in favor of a third, and so on and so forth until we reach the one lasting presence, the point at which the distinction between meaning and the absence of meaning disappears: the same point from which we began."
Một cuốn sách du hành - khảo cứu nhưng lại được viết bằng những câu văn thuộc hàng đẹp nhất mà một nhà văn thực sự có thể viết ra được. Một cuốn sách có thể đọc để hiểu biết về những xã hội khác nhưng cũng có thể đơn giản đọc để thưởng văn.
Ogni tanto sento il bisogno di rileggerlo... Un viaggio struggente dentro culture e civiltà perdute osservate con amore, partecipazione e grandissima letteratura
يلي صار معو برحلتو ما بقل أهمية عن المعلومات يلي جمعها..وقراءتي للكتاب كانت بس بهدف التزكيز على فكرة الجسد.. فما اهتميت كتير للحكي عن الثقافة أو المجتمعات إلا تحت إطار الجسد..
I can't say I'm a fan of Levi-Strauss' anthropological theory, by and large.
I do like his idea of bricolage, though, and it's the bricolage that really shines through.This is because Tristes Tropiques, is, far more than an anthropological work, a memoir, dealing with a flight from the Third Reich takeover of France, the twilight of tribal society in '50s Brazil, and the general feelings of guilt and uncertainty that plague the work of the field anthropologist.
It would be a great story regardless, but in addition, Levi-Strauss is a phenomenal storyteller-- self-deprecating, lyrical, passionate, and keenly observant.
Man sieht wieder, was für Vorteile es hat, wenn man grundsätzlich ohne Erwartungen durchs Leben geht :-)Obwohl der Kern des Buches ein ethnologischer Bericht über vier indigene Stämme (von Völkern konnte man bereits in den 1930er Jahren nicht mehr sprechen, als Lévi-Strauss die Reisen unternahm) in Brasilien — den Caduveo, den Bororo, den Namikwara und den Tupi-Kawahib —ist, so ist das Buch doch viel mehr als dass.
Jahrhunderts, in Entbehrungen, denen zahlreiche Menschen damals noch ausgesetzt waren, aber auch in eine teils wunderbar unberührte Natur (die bereits damals stark im Schrumpfen war), in zahlreiche exotische Geschichten über Glücksritter, vor allem aber die Tatsache, dass „Zivilisation“ nicht unbedingt etwas mit westlichem Fortschritt zu tun haben muss.
Écrit magistralement à la jonction de la littérature, de l'autobiographie, de la science et de la philosophie, ce livre compte parmi ceux que j'ai le plus apprécié.Lévi-Strauss, c’est le type idéal de l’intellectuel écrivain du XXe siècle, dont le discours englobe en virtuose la philosophie, l’art et la science.
Ce sera par le biais de l’anthropologie, science encore toute neuve qui demandait à être, et en empruntant de manière heuristique la notion de structure à la linguistique, que ce philosophe de formation exprimera son formidable talent d’expression.
Sont-ils tristes, ces « tropiques » (c’est-à-dire ces tribus encore plus ou moins qualifiables de « sauvages » à l’époque des débuts de l’anthropologie)?
Le esperienze etnografiche di Lévi-Strauss, disseminate di fantastiche divagazioni culturali. Interessante e scritto molto bene.
Esa mirada distanciada es necesaria frente a la miseria generalizada, pero también hace que los momentos de belleza resplandezcan por sí mismos, sin adornos ni distorsiones.
Lo que se hizo y se frustró puede ser rehecho" Es fácil ver una negación reaccionaria en esa idea de que las cosas humanas son reversibles.
Pero al tener una idea lo que vio y escuchó, no es tan raro que no haya quedado encandilado por el mesianismo de la Historia.
Apesar de ter colocado este livro na "gaveta da literatura de Viagem" é muito mais que isso.Lévi-Strauss é um antropólogo francês que nos desconstrói completamente não só o estereótipo do antropólogo, como nos deflaciona a noção de viagem.
Talvez porque cresci num mundo globalizado onde existe a crença que quando se viaja aprende-se algo novo, não só sobre os sítios que se visita, como sobre nós próprios.
Que é impossível viajar numa "altura certa", que viajar não nos ensina nada de novo (só confirma aquilo que somos e já sabemos) e que no máximo, aprendemos é sobre o sítio de onde saímos.
But even though this urge is real (I feel it so concretely, and I’m sure Levi-Strauss did too), one of the main themes of Tristes Tropiques is a skepticism towards the value of travel, in all forms.
It just seems elementary because it is adapted for something different, their evolution was oriented toward goals very different from those of the west.Over and over again, throughout his journey to the interior of Brazil, Levi-Strauss laments not being able to access “real” culture, but rather one that was already “tainted” by Western influence.
يبدو إنجاز ليفي وكأنه رواية حزينة للمفاهيم بين المجتمعات الحارة والباردة والتقدم والتخلف - فكرة التش
Rather an important book. "A seeming gallimaufry" of anthropological excursions (delightfully short of the appallingly academic), memoirs, travel writing, philosophies, lyrical passages, eccentric digressions; all mixed together in a fine and meaty stew -- if sometimes a bit overcooked. The discussion of cultural relativism was intriguing as Levi-Strauss seems to take issue with the most extreme expressions that this has followed. The final chapters are oddly problematic -- they attempt to be simultaneously critical theory and a kind of Buddhist-nihilism that wants to transcend the nothingness of a world without meaning.
uno de los mejores libros que leí en mi vida. el termino "non fiction" carece de sentido: es una puta obra de arte.levi strauss llega hasta los confines del amazonas en busca de la esencia de las sociedades humanas. Su análisis sobre la decadencia del nuevo mundo tiene un efecto contradictorio. al intentar desmitificar lo que observaba, el autor describe, relata y teoriza con tal lucidez que finalmente logra lo contrario: la generación de mitos nuevos.todos tienen que leerlo.
Texto primordial para encontrar el punto fronterizo entre los textos científicos y los textos literarios. Necesario (junto con 'Africa Fantasmal' de Michel Leiris) para la deconstrucción de la literatura antropológica occidental.
A classic work or book by Claude Levi-Strauss, one of the leading guys who studied other guys from other cultures. This book is about guys from Brazil. But really he's a master and a wonderful writer. A travel writer of sorts who is really smart. Dig?
יש להדגיש שלמרות הרובד התיאורתי והמחקרי שבו, ספר זה אינו נמנה דווקא על כתביו המדעיים "הטהורים" אלא הוא בעיקרו ספר זכרונות, שהוא גם רומן חניכה וגם סיכום מפעל חיים על כל ההירהורים הפילוסופיים הגלומים בו בדבר משמעותם ומשמעות עיסוקו האנטרופולוגי.פתיחת הספר (עד עמוד 170 לערך) המתארת לימודיו האקדמיים בצרפת כמו גם את הפלגותיו לעולם החדש ושיטוטיו ועיסוקיו בעריה הגדולות של ברזיל, מעורפלת מעט.
לוי-סטרוס אינו דבק כאן בכרונולוגיה פשוטה אלא מעמיס רבדים של זכרונות מהפלגות שונות (בעיקר אחת מאוחרת יותר ומשמעותית ביותר – זו שעשה בספינת פליטים שנמלטה ברגע האחרון מציפורני הנאצים בתקופת מלחמת העולם), התפלמסות עם תיאוריות פילוסופיות קונטיננטליות ושפע של הגות (בדבר מבנה ערים, השוואות בין האזור הטרופי בברזיל לזה שבהודו, בוטניקה וגיאולוגיה ...) ואף קטעים פואטיים משהו (תיאור ארוך וקצת משעמם של שקיעה בים).
Transcendent. Long stretches of anthropological description that can feel like a chore, but his insights into the world are so arresting it's worth it.
A miséria humana é um tema recorrente nesse livro. Levi Strauss parece estar bastante afetado pelas diferentes realidades que ele encontrou em suas viagens. Além disso, aparecem algumas críticas a civilização e os custos da mesma a humanidade.
Lévi-Strauss was clearly an extraordinary thinker, extremely well-read, restless, creative, morally sensitive, funny, and painfully self-aware.
The final chapter, in which he begins musing over the moral implications of his work and of what he's learned over the course of his career up to then, is staggering.
Ultimately Lévi-Strauss understands that he is engaged in a quixotic enterprise, a sort of search for the fundamental meaning of humanness, which he believes is to be found in understanding how people relate to one another and to their world.
Alternately fascinating and mind-numbingly self-indulgent. A real mixed bag of brilliance mixed with inane tedium. The most interesting bits were obviously about the Brazilian expeditions. The digressions into South Asia and elsewhere, with dark discourses about Islam, etc., just seemed off and muddle-headed. Still, worthwhile to see Levi-Strauss chronicling his journey toward becoming an anthropologist.
levi-strauss é gênio. crítico, ácido, divertido. o livro narra as desventuras dele no brasil para entrar em contato com tribos da região central. reflete sobre a elite brasileira, a formação da elite intelectual francesa, hábitos indígenas e sobre como fazer etnologia. um dos melhores livros q já li. maravilhoso.
Nevertheless, the author's findings during his expeditions are in a few very important moments analyzed with something approaching real scientific "rigor" and to absolutely mesmerizing effect.
Take Caduveo face-paintings, for example, which,"confer upon the individual his dignity as a human being: they help him to cross the frontier from Nature to culture [note the famous Straussian Nature/culture duality], and from mindless animal to the civilized man"Moreover, the fact that Tropiques has no real claims to being a scientific investigation allows the author to explore those unsolved mysteries of humankind speculatively (the origins of writing, for example, or pre-Columbian migration patterns), which he does not only imaginatively, but also quite convincingly.
