https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428456.Shakespeare_and_Company
The third book read in my project to learn more about literary expatriates in 1920s and 1930s Paris, Sylvia Beach's memoir was in many ways the most enjoyable reading experience to date.
Beach was an American woman who operated an English language lending library and bookstore called Shakespeare & Company on Paris' Left Bank from 1919 to 1941*.
In addition to running her bookstore, Sylvia Beach published the first edition of James Joyce's Ulysses in book form.
The middle section of the book is somewhat bogged down in an account of less well-known writers and somewhat obscure literary reviews with which Beach was associated.
3.5 stars. Often reads as a series of anecdotes, but it's interesting to read about Beach's relationship with Joyce from her own perspective.
reading a book in one day, and then writing a report on it the same day, and then turning that paper in the next day?
it's called THRIVINGanyway maybe it's that i was reading this with an ~Analytical Eye~ so i can write a bunch and tear it to shreds, but i thought this was so poorly structured.
also, unbelievably boring considering how objectively fascinating the subject matter is.if Joyce and Hemingway and Fitzgerald in a Parisian bookstore in the 1920s (not to mention the Nazi shutdown of said bookstore during WWII) can't keep my attention, something is wrong.bottom line: meh!!!
(i have a paper to write.)
Hanging out in cafes, sipping wine late into the night and discussing the latest works of Joyce, Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Gide--who are also your neighbors, and, if you're very lucky, your acquaintances or friends--would be amazing.
Sylvia Beach lived that dream life.
Sylvia was an American who moved to Paris and opened a bookshop that specialized in American works.
Beach's style is anecdotal, but the reader gets a sense of her daily life (with partner Adrienne Monnier, who also ran a bookshop, but of French writings)along with the often-funny stories of her talented friends.
I loved the story of Sylvia and her unlikely bookshop and how she came to publish James Joyce's Ulysses.
At a certain point the memoir devolved into a series of short portraits of famous people she knew and why she liked them and then some random episodes from her life.
The very end descriptions of life in occupied Paris in WWII were also great, including the brilliant and inspiring liberation of the rue de l'Odeon by Ernest Hemingway, which I'm sure added to his legendary status when the book was originally published.
Many visitors over the years have mistaken that shop for the one that coined the name, but the original Shakespeare and Company – a lending library as well as a bookshop – was founded by Sylvia Beach, daughter of a Presbyterian minister from New Jersey, with the aid of her mother’s life savings.
The shop more usually associated with Sylvia was in the Rue de l’Odéon, but the first Shakespeare and Company was situated just round the corner, in the Rue Dupuytren.
They were all customers at the Shakespeare and Company, which many of them looked upon as their club.”I didn’t realize that, more than anything else, this book is about James Joyce.
Sylvia also had a dog foisted on her, despite her remark that she “couldn’t keep a dog and a James Joyce and a bookshop.”Shakespeare and Company was a magnet for talented writers of the time.
I found A Moveable Feast more readable, much more of a story (Hemingway, after all).
But Sylvia Beach was equally amazing at what she did best—she created a haven of support for so many important writers of her time.
She had developed a veritable passion for France and was delighted that the family returned regularly for holidays.When she was old enough Sylvia went to Spain, and spent a few months there before moving on to Paris where she 'wanted to pursue my studies at the source'.
When property became available in rue de l'Odeon, Sylvia moved there and Shakespeare and Company had found its spiritual home.In this enchanting book of her reminiscences of the literary and artistic scene of Paris Sylvia tells countless stories of the personalities that she meets as well as explaining all the nuances of working with Joyce.
This touching memoir of Beach's years as proprietress of the infamous Shakespeare & Company bookshop in Paris deserves a place of honor on the bookshelf next to Hemingway's "A Moveable Feast." Any fan of early 20th Century literature and art will be delighted by her intimate reminiscences of Hemingway, Gertrude Stein, Valéry, Fitzgerald, and especially James Joyce.
Beach emerges as a tireless, heroic, kind, perceptive, and altogether wonderful woman who had the great good fortune to be at the center of one of the high watermarks of European art and literature, and fully knew and savored it.
This was a highly enjoyable historical memoir and interesting material for anyone interested in "The Lost Generation" in Paris in the 1920's. Sylvia Beach, the proprietor, created a publishing house (she originally published the classic ULYSSES) and intellectual hub for expat. writers in Paris- think Joyce, Hemingway, Pound, Fitzgerald, etc... Great reading if you are interested in this generation of literature or just in 20th Century Paris in general.
Every once in a great while I stumble upon a book I've never heard of and feel as though I've discovered treasure.
Though I had heard of Sylvia Beach and her famous book shop/lending library, her memoir "Shakespeare & Company" was unknown to me.
In an easy, conversational style, Beach gives the history of her shop and observational portraits of the various artists who treated her establishment as a salon of sorts.
Beach's life in Paris and her interactions with 'the lost generation,' was published almost fifty years ago, but remains engaging, enjoyable and relevant today.
Indeed a treat.
This is Beach's memoir of her long time in Paris as bookseller, publisher, and literary den mother; she was friends with writers from Andre Gide to Ernest Hemingway and published Ulysses when no other publisher would touch it. I liked it a lot, but I can see the flaws in it. Beach's focus is always on others, especially Joyce, and I wanted more of her personal history and of her more candid opinions. Fortunately, I had to hand Noel Riley Fitch's excellent Sylvia Beach and the Lost Generation(highly recommended) to fill in the gaps.
Ebook - read via Open Library here.Sylvia Beach and her bookstore Shakespeare and Company are legendary now - but were also quickly popular in her time, as the bookshop became a meeting place for visitors to stop in and perhaps use its address to forward their mail.
It was as much a club and a writers' meeting place as it was a bookstore and lending library.Since Beach was so immersed in the society of authors, poets, and other famous folk, and often doesn't give you much more than their names and where she bumped into them, so I did find myself stopping to look up many names (and as usual adding books to my reading list) - and enjoying that.
I'm giving this 5 stars, not because it is great literature, but because it is a great story. (Actually, a great collection of stories.) Ms. Beach is your cool great aunt who went to Paris in her youth and came back with all kinds of interesting stories. Highly recommended for anyone who wants to learn more about "An American in Paris."
I liked most of all Sylvia's voice and her phrasing, from so many years ago, this American expat who took Paris and literature to heart long before I did. And her memories of Joyce and Hemingway as if happened yesterday.
Sylvia Beach was an American bibliophile who opened an English-language bookstore in Paris, which became the literary headquarters for the Lost Generation and every struggling creative soul in France.
She wrote this book nearly two decades after the close of her iconic bookstore (Shakespeare and Company 1919-1941).
Intimate portraits of such now historical icons as James Joyce, Ernest Hemingway, Gertrude Stein and Alice B.
Some of the stories are mere sketches of events and people, and I would have lined to have more, such as the final events involving the occupation of Paris, Beach's six-month internment, and the removal of the literary treasures.
I loved reading that Sylvia Beach "found tht acknowledged leader of the modern movement (Ezra Pound) not bumptious", or of the collection of toy soldiers of Larbaund; of Jack Kahane coming into Shakespeare & Company and asking, "How's God?" (meaning Joyce).
And reading about Joyce's fear of dogs, or obsession with being in touch with Sylvia while she was away, made him much more approachable to me.I think the reason I rated this 3 was because I was left wanting for a bit more detail on some things.
Dabei bin ich aber auch auf Charaktere gestoßen, über die ich mehr erfahren möchte, zum Beispiel "Winifred Bryher", eine Schriftstellerin, von der ich bislang nichts gehört habe, die ein sehr unabhängiges, nicht-konformes Leben führte und scheinbar einigen Menschen bei der Flucht vor den Nazis geholfen hat.
Ein Autor, von dem ich bislang ebenfalls nichts gehört habe, wird als einer der ganz großen Franzosen gelobt: Valery Labaud.Und dann muss ich auch sagen, dass sich das Buch wohltuend gegen die zahlreichen anderen "engagierte Frauen betreiben Buchhandlung"-Werke (z.B.
Sylvia Beach opened the Shakespeare and Company bookstore (and lending library) in 1919 in Paris providing English-language books to American and British ex-pats and European readers.
(See also: "A Moveable Feast" by Hemingway and "Midnight in Paris" by Woody Allen)The book itself is a true memoir detailing Beach's memories and feelings without any sense of having researched exact dates or occasions.
The book reads like the People magazine of the Lost Generation authors, though as I am not familiar with her favorite French poets some of this was lost on me.
However the chapters on Joyce scattered throughout are worth the time spent reading this book.
This is a delightful book written by Sylvia Beach about her experiences running her English language bookstore, Shakespeare and Company, in Paris.
It was the height of the "Lost Generation" expatriate community there and she had close relationships with James Joyce, Ernest Hemingway, F.
The book is written in a chatty, almost letter-writing style and, just occasionally, gets a little tedious because she seems to want to include everyone.
In addition, she contributed to Joyce's support when she appeared to have very little money of her own.
Personally, I wanted to give Joyce a good smack at times.The book appears to have been originally published in 1959.
Sylvia Beach started Shakespeare and Company which I will hopefully one day visit and spend the night in, as long as writing scientific papers counts as being a writer.
The atmosphere of the time in Paris is better captured in A Moveable Feast but Sylvia Beach saw everything first hand and was influential in a lot of it, like actually publishing Ulysses.
She captures the goings on of the ex-pat community in Paris and her story of how she did what she managed to, creating a hugely influential bookstore in Paris for a whole generation of intellectuals.
I read this book after visiting the Shakespeare & Company Bookstore in Paris.
The bookstore is a true used bookstore with floor to ceiling books tumbling everywhere and old chairs about to sit and read.This was a gathering place in the 20's for those desiring books written in English.
It was also a gathering place for the writers of the time and even a few artists.
Sylvia Beach was very involved in helping James Joyce get his Ulysses published.
His book was banned in the America and secretly brought into the USA via Canada in some guys pants legs!
Very much a memoir that reads in the same way that someone tells you a story; at times it flip flops all over the place, some bits of the story are repeated a couple of times and it isn't entirely chronological. She is quite the name-dropper, but I guess that's the point of reading this book. The majority of the book deals with the author's relationship with James Joyce and the ups and downs of publishing his book Ulysses.
Libro bello indubbiamente, ha il solo difetto di essere effettivamente un diario solo quando si parla di Joyce e di Hemgway... Qualche accortezza per qualche poeta, magari francese, ma tutto il resto arriva e se ne va quasi solo per essere inserito nella lista di quelli che "di là erano passati".
i think i love this mostly because of the scene at the end when hemingway liberates the rue de l'odeon on a tank at the end of WWI. no idea if it actually happened, but it's good storytelling in a memoir.
Eröffne Buchhandlung in Paris. Bitte schicke Geld. Mit diesen Sätzen in einem Telegramm von Sylvia Beach an ihre Mutter beginnt im Jahr 1919 die Geschichte von "Shakespeare and Company", dem vermutlich bekanntesten Buchladen der Welt. In den 1920er Jahren mausert sich der kleine Laden der resoluten Pastorentochter von der US-Ostküste zu einem Anlaufpunkt der literarischen Szene in der französischen Hauptstadt. Vor allem Autorinnen und Autoren, die es aus dem angloamerikanischen Sprachraum nach
Mit Letzterem verbindet Sylvia Beach ein ganz besonderes Verhältnis, da sie als Teilzeit-Verlegerin erstmals den "Ulysses" in Buchform herausbringt und eine wichtige Wegbegleiterin des nicht ganz einfachen Schriftstellers wird.Den Aufstieg von "Shakespeare and Company" von einem nahezu amateurhaft geführten Geschäft hin zu einem der zentralen Knotenpunkte im literarischen Paris der Goldenen Zwanziger beschreibt Sylvia Beach ebenso klug wie humorvoll.
Dabei wären diese finsteren Jahre, während der "Shakespeare and Company" teilweise geschlossen war und die Sylvia Beach teilweise in Internierungshaft, teilweise halb versteckt in einem Wohnheim für Studentinnen verbracht hat, sicher schon ein eigenes Buch wert gewesen.Insgesamt ist "Shakespeare and Company: Ein Buchladen in Paris" aber dennoch ein sehr persönliches Stück literarischer Zeitgeschichte, das man auch heute noch mit Gewinn liest.3 Sterne
There are many books about this period in Paris, and I am doing my best to find and read then all.
Sylvia Beach must have been a very sweet woman.
They lived together and must have been lovers, but Beach is discretion itself and such a thing is never mentioned.
Maybe what would have made the book just that little bit better is if Beach hadn't been so discrete in writing it.If you also enjoy reading about this period, you might want to get yourself the DVD of the documentary film "Paris was a Woman" by Greta Schiller.
It was nice to get her perspective and read her stories about starting the bookstore, all the writers who came to visit, her adventure publishing Ulysses and WWII.
She focuses quite heavily on James Joyce and all of the help she gave him, not just in publishing Ulysses but in supporting his family so he could write.
I've always wanted to own a bookstore, so I also loved her stories about starting out.
(The one open now was opened later by someone else.) I would love to travel back in time and visit her store in the 20s.
The book, to me, sounds more like a diary where she just randomly talks about the great authors she knows and how they spend time together.Unlike fictional works, this memoir doesn't really have a plot.
I enjoyed reading about Paris in the 20's and 30's and really enjoyed the accounts of the famous authors all being friends and working together to get their works published.Contrary to what I have expected, this book doesn't really paint that much of a vivid picture of Paris in the 20's.
Yes, it talks a lot about the great literary scene happening in Paris during that time but it lacks a lot of details about daily lives and sceneries.
It provides a sliver into knowing about Paris in the 20's.
There was nothing romantic about their collaboration because Beach was obviously gay; but she admired Joyce for his genius and did everything in her power, often at great personal cost, to further his art.
So the author has a few words to say about a great many of the most famous French and American writers of that period.
I think what might be most admirable about this woman was how little she cared for money.
She made little or no money by publishing Ulysses but it cost her a lot in time and money to serve Joyce in all of his many needs.
