https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51078.Batman
This was one of the inspirations of Christopher Nolan for the last Batman film with Christian Bale in the lead. It is where Bane is introduced. The main story is fantastic - it is absolutely captivating when...oh never mind, no spoilers - you'll have to read it yourself. Let's just say that the intervention of Azrael towards the end which is also the impetus for Knightfall Vol 2 did not really please me as much as the rest of the book.
Also, I just have to say: most emo Batman ever.
He starts this hefty collection hurt, and spends the entire thing being...
not very Batman at all.
Making bad choices.
Constantly hurt and sucking at his job....
On the plus side, as someone who isn't a huge Batman fan (by which I mean I don't read the main comics, just a lot of the side stuff written by the A-list talent like Gaiman, Miller, Moore, Loeb, etc etc.) it was interesting to see the parade of villains in this collection.
It's almost like a primer in Batman bad-guy lore.
It took a while for me to actually see where they were going with this arc but once it picked up and I began to understand, it blew me away.Basically, Bane throws everything at Batman.
Bane frees all the inmates at Arkham Asylum and exhausts Batman as he attempts to incarcerate them all.
Jim Lee is my favorite Batman artist of all time and it's kind of unfair that I compare everything to him - he's a pretty high measuring stick - but a lot of it looked kind of ugly.
It's a good storyline, Bane setting loose a ton of villains into Gotham and then sitting back, waiting for the perfect moment to strike, but all it means is that Batman has to go through each and every villain in a kind of rote, dull way as we slowly see Batman get weaker and weaker.But why is he so worn out even at the start of the book?
I'm going to read the rest of the trilogy but for those who're on the fence about reading this first book, I'd say take a look at the second to last page and you've basically got the book in a nutshell.
It's been a while since I've read a Batman comic, but they never get old. Batman's style changes, but it's always classic stories, and this is no exception.
While Bane manipulates the whole orchestra and devises a painful and exhausting trial for Batman, the story essentially leads to the one and only highlight hinted in the title of the volume.
The crusader that no other villain has yet been able to put an end to?Bane makes sure to drain out every single inch of energy of his target before he gets his own hands dirty.
Repetitive in nature, the story can easily bore a person that sees this as a déjà vu of Batman bringing down villains once again.
Extreme shock value, but it's just trying to copy "The Death of Superman".
This is one of THE classic Batman stories, if only because it is a story people like to re-tell in various forms of media.
With the menacing, hulking form of Bane and a story about a Batman who might not have an easy, assured victory, how could people resist?
All in all, though, the main draw of the story (the Batman vs Bane bit) was fairly enjoyable.
For great "must read" Batman stories I much prefer other classics like The Dark Knight Returns and Batman: Year One.
However its a good read, a bit trashy and less thought provoking than other Batman stories (The Dark Knight Returns, The Long Halloween, Arkham Asylum).The good: Bane is an excellent Batman villain.
Of course Bruce would fall in love with his doctor but come on Batman/Bruce Wayne, Catwoman and Poison Ivy are in this story too and you tell me you're not interested!!The art: Maybe I'm a bit pomp but the art of this story is actually boring same old comic look.
The only highlight is the Scarecrow/Anarcky story which is interesting especially the use of red but its still boring.
Although at the time it was in the shadow of the Death of Superman arc, this one feels like it was trying to follow a similar model; Hero runs a gauntlet of brutal and unending violence to face a big baddy and ultimately fail.
Do I care anymore?” I know it’s meant to show his slow decline, his arrogance in his own abilities, and his turn to rage as opposed to logic, but in the end it felt very drawn out for an interesting but somewhat flat payoff.
Not as good as I remember it from my childhood, but still pretty good.The main gripe I have is that I remembered more Azrael in the background, and that apparently happened before this story arc?
Also, Bane wasn't introduced here, there was some kind of side-story with the Riddler, Killer Croc and Bane before the action of this collection, so there are some blanks which this book doesn't cover.
The complaint I'm making is that this is not the "comprehensive" Azrael/Batman/Bane story arc I thought it would be.The entire story isn't particularly strong, but when you know what's coming in the climax, it kind of feels justified that what precedes isn't stellar.
I really did like this one.Some drawbacks: Some of the characters and situations this one starts off with are kind of confusing if you don't know the back story on them.
But it IS a comic book series, so that's probably to be somewhat expected.
Also, I didn't really know much about Bane before reading this one.
I can see why Christopher Nolan picked him for the next plot (though that Catwoman casting will probably always leave me feeling disappointed).So overall, an entertaining read.
Maybe a little confusing for a beginner with little knowledge of Batman lore, but with a little help from Wikipedia you'll probably be fine.
I missed Knightfall the first time around, because the series began right after I left for college and temporarily gave up my comics habit that was born from and raised on Batman.
Nowadays a craving for superhero books boils up in me about twice a year, and the last one hit its peak just as I rewatched The Dark Knight Rises, giving me the irresistible urge to examine its primary source material.
The light of even Nolan's worst Batman movie exposes everything awful about this series, which breaks out every superhero comic cliche.
It's not fun to watch Batman like this, run-down and ill and throwing batarangs all wrong.
But it does make for a great story, of course.
Typical of the character, Bruce Wayne keeps going when he should be resting.
Something about 'as long as I'm still standing Gotham will be' blah blah blah.
Batman doesn't have many faults, but like most superheroes, his perseverance is his downfall.
He needs to have the long view.
But hey, I'm one of about a zillion people who were telling him that throughout the story.
Coming off some of the 1970s and 1980s, more adult Batman stories by Alan Moore and Frank Miller, the Dark Knight did seem a bit lost.
This introduces Bane and also gives us the more gritty Azazel-turned-Batman, but much of the rogues gallery seems cheesy and under-developed.
Dixon's Bane, however, is a great addition to the story and a very compelling character in the beginning.
Furthermore, many of the problems with Azazel Batman are broadcast far, far too obviously.
It's good, but many other Batman arcs are better and definitely seems to come from a time when D.C. was struggling to define the character.
I was pretty much gnawing my fingernails off out of fear for Bruce.
A shitty villain like Bane.
Oh sure, he deduced Batman’s true identity under a year or so, but that doesn’t make him a worthy villain to me.
At least Ra’s al Ghul and perhaps even Hush (the villains who know that Bruce is Batman) has more charisma and showmanship than the steroid-glutting brute.
Bane is boring.
It’ll be interesting to see how Bruce recovers, and how Gotham will react to the new Bat on the block ...Rating: 3.5/5
I can't believe that the average rating for this book is 4 stars. The overall plot is reasonable, but the execution is bad. The book feels like Batman facing a series of mini-bosses before meeting the megaboss. The encounters feel contrived and the author does a poor job of conveying any complexity - the dialogue is terrible. All this said, I'm still going to try to read part 2 of Knightfall because I love Batman.
"and in the corner to my left...BANE!"really my first batman story arc to put under my belt, and actually one of my favorites. sure, the tank baddie is a staple for every superhero, but bane is quite different. his strategic crippling of batman ultimately culminating in batman's literal crippling is great. bane was and is still is one of my favorite additions to batman's iconic rogues gallery.
Amazing story on how Bane tries to destroy Batman's will and confidence with the help of all those crazy Arkham villains.. And then.. the apotheosis of this volume!!Can't wait to read the next chapter of this story..
Not accepting any help made Batman really annoying and the end of part 1 of this story predictable, therefore less enjoyable. Right from the start, Robin was way smarter and would have been a better Batman.
It was long but interesting.
I like Batman and the comics but this is a novel wich said in the beginning of the book. I was so bored in the book but it did show the Batman in a Good way and how he needs a replacement or he will let Gotham down. The author try to do something different, and he failed me because like I said I couldn't keep up in the book.
Bane is learns about the Dark Knight, and hears stories of the dark, brooding man who protects the city who is nearly invincible, and Bane shows great interest in him.
Bruce Wayne is weak and sick and this comic series shows a great portrayal of a side of Batman we do not usually see often.
However, even at his moments of sickness and weakness, Bruce Wayne continues to fight the villains of Gotham to protect his city.
The story of Bane breaking Batman's back has been a defining moment of Batman's history, and has been portrayed in such movies like The Dark Knight Rises.
I am pretty sure I read most of these when they were originally published, but what fun to read again. This is one oft the greatest Batman stories ever told! To weaken the Bat, Bane blows a hole in Arkham Asylum freeing the some of the world's most dangerous and insane criminals. This is bad news for Batman who is already badly poor health, but good news for fans who wanted to see an A-List Super Villains- including The Ventriloquist, The Mad Hatter, Firefly, Poison Ivy, Riddler, Scarecrow, the Joker, and eventually Bane!
I like the idea of having a copy of the graphic novels the recent Nolan movies are based off (Year 1 for Batman Begins, The Killing Joke for The Dark Knight), so, Knightfall seemed like a good investment to make.
Spoiler: the bat gets broken.Aside from being a little dated (the robot that appears on the first fucking page just makes me cringe), this was a surprisingly good read.
Batman starts off pretty sick, and gets pushed to his absolute limits with each villain he chases and brings down.
Quite frankly, Knightfall is just required reading for any hardcore Batman fans.
Here's the thing about Knightfall, because of his huge stature both physically and mentally, and the way he subverts expectations as a villain, most people see the entirety of the story arch as being about Batman vs Bain.
This whole arch is about Bruce Wayne vs Batman.
The beginning-to-end theme here is him seeing that Batman is bigger than him, and being forced to wrestle with the decision as to whether or not he wants to continue.
It's the first third of a book.
The consequences, the climax, the turn, and the ending are all still yet to be discovered if you stop at the end of this book.
The concept is fine but it could have been handled so much better than simply having Batman's inner monologue state how run-down he is over and over...
He is simply burnt out from the get go and on every single page he appears to be on his last leg...
The plot arc is disproportionately longer than the character arc.It feels like some of that could have been used better to developing Azrael or Bane (both brand new characters at the time).
However, Bane is such a one note character that would have also been tedious.I didn't hate this, if I could go half stars on Goodreads a 2.5 would feel appropriate.
One where "Batman" rounds up some of the most famous villains in Gotham and another where he is confronting his greatest enemy yet - Bane.
The book opens with the origin of Bane and it is a fantastic story in itself.
Later we see how Bane conquers Gotham and sets all the criminals free in Gotham and how Batman manages to defeat them and gets close to conquering Bane in the end.
There is some iconic imagery and dialogue in this volume, the most famous one where Bane breaks Batman's back is also on the cover.
I'm a person who came into Batman from the TV shows and movies, rather than from the comic books - which makes a pretty huge difference.
In the movies and shows, the conservative subtext of Batman is simmering just beneath the surface, whereas in the comic books, it's right up there at the surface for all to see.
Sin City sits better with me than Batman, though, because of how stylized and over the top it is: you don't read Sin City and think "Oh, that's how the real world is." Gotham is made to look a lot closer to real life than Sin City, and that gives it an air of realism that makes this cowboy vigilantism feel a bit more disturbing.Anyway, this was well-written and well-illustrated for a Batman comic book, and I like the Knightfall storyline...
It's really a shame the prelude that provides the backstory for Batman's condition at the beginning of this story arc wasn't in any way included in this trade paperback.
There's some random characters in here that I had no clue who they were without having done some background on here, and Batman's somewhat deranged disposition was in no way explained in the volume itself.
It's a good thing the internet was there to give me a clue.Interesting choice in villains here--a muscular thug who is actually a freakishly intelligent mastermind plotting the downfall of Batman.
