https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/532069.Pink_and_Say
Many of the books I had read by Patricia Polacco were extremely emotional and sad like The Junkyard Wonders and Thank You, Mr. Falker, but none of them had hit me so close to my heart than her book “Pink and Say.” “Pink and Say” is a story about the friendship between two boys of different races whose ending will make you want to cry for many years to come.Sheldon Russell Curtis was a young soldier who was injured during the Civil War and was left for dead until a young African-American boy named Pinkus comes to his aid and brings him home with him.
This story came down from Say, whose full name was Sheldon Russell Curtis.This story takes place when he was in his mid teens and was a very reluctant Union soldier during the American Civil War. Pink is Pinkus Aylee, born a slave, also fighting for the Union and also a teenager.
It’s about war and its horrors, and the brutality experienced by African Americans by the Confederacy.
It’s been years since I’ve read anything about it, and it’s just briefly mentioned here.These two are interesting characters.
Pink knows how to read, even though it’s illegal for a slave to be taught to read.
The fact that it is a true story and that it is her great-grandfather's story makes it all the more powerful.
Here in Virginia, we are surrounded by remnants of the Civil War and I am learning as much about it as our girls are.
The battlefields from the Civil War are everywhere and I am finally opening my eyes to the devastation that our country experienced.The mere fact that Ms. Polacco is here today, sharing her stories with the world, is directly connected to the generosity that one young man and his mother gave to help save another young man's life.
Patricia Polacco has written many picture books that are beautiful, heartbreaking, and memorable but "Pink and Say" is the one that makes me cry every single time I read it.
While he mends, Say bonds with Pink and his family but the two young soldiers are eventually caught by Confederates and sent to the prison camp Andersonville.
Pink's fate breaks your heart, but Say keeps his memory alive as he survives the war, and the book puts a human face on the devastation of this terrible time in our nation's history.
For such a short story, a children’s picture book even, it’s filled with big ideas: the sickness that is slavery, the horrors of war, the healing power of love and human kindness, the capacity to hope in truly desperate times, heartbreak, and honor.
When I occasionally read it to my students, I pass the book around so they can touch the author’s hand, and they’re invited into a lovely connection with the story teller and her great-great grandfather Sheldon Russell Curtis.
I tend to use this book to teach personal narratives, especially when I want my students to learn and then retell the story of someone in an older generation.
The key characters are Pinkus Aylee, better known as Pink, a slave from Georgia, and Sheldon "Say" Russell Curtis, a young farm boy from Ohio.
In reality, this regiment was never stationed in or near Georgia during the War Between the States.
Upon future research, there is no documentation of a soldier by the name of Pinkus Aylee in any regiment in the Union Army according to the National Park Service.
Ms. Polacco states that Pink was owned by the family of Aylee from Georgia.
Ms. Polacco states he was with the 24th Ohio Regiment as a color bearer because he was too young to fight.
From two different regiments, the black soldier named Pink, quenches his fellow soldier's thirst and carries him to what he used to know as home, only to be surprised to find his mother still living in the slave shack behind the burned down Master's House.
Hiding in the cellar as they ransacked the shack, Pink's mother would be shot to death and the soldiers would be sent to a camp in Andersonville where Pink would be hanged.
When Lincoln freed the slaves, Say would be released from camp sick, and frail, but free, but would live on to pass this story down through the generations in his family until it finally would finally reach Patricia.
After reading it, I felt it held up to its reputation.
Polacco's word characterization provides an insight into her characters that is not always seen in pcture books and really makes the reader feel connected to a plight much different from their own.
The ending is one of sadness, yet it makes the reader take a moment to think about how the events told in this book are not as long ago, or removed from us as we think.
I would like to incorporate this book into my Literature Studies class as we are reading Nightjohn, or see if my students' Social Studies teacher would be interested in using it in his classes as well.
In this powerfully written and illustrated picture book by gifted storyteller Patricia Polacco, readers are taken back to the Civil War. Sheldon Curtis (Say) is lying near a Southern battlefield.
When Pinkus Aylee finds him, he carries the wounded boy back to his mother's house.
She nurses him back to health, and the two boys become friends.
The author/illustrator reminds readers that heroes can appear in the most unlikely places, and that a debt owed to someone for saving one's life is a debt that lasts even after death.
A children's picture book remembering Pinkus Aylee, a colored boy in the Union Army who saved another.My TakeOh, I just wanted to cry throughout the story...and unfortunately, I got my "wish" at the end.
A touch of irony when Say reveals he can't read, and Pink promises to teach him.I love how Polacco has Say appreciating Moe Moe, that he feels as if he's in heaven."You can call me Say...Everybody in my family calls me Say, not Sheldon.
The CoverThe cover is a beautiful picture in watercolors of Pinkus reading the Bible while Say is looking over his shoulders against a backdrop of old Aylee's burned-out plantation house.The title is what the story is all about, Pink and Say.
As a person who typically does not get emotional when reading, this book will evoke some emotions.Pink and Say tells the story of two young Union soldiers in the Civil War. Say is found by Pink wounded, left in a field.
The book would be awesome when discussing the civil war and how children their age and older had to leave home and fight the war.
Reading or discussing the book may cause your students to be thankful for their own lives or relate it to how some students fight their own wars in and out of school.
I kind of either love or hate Patricia Palocco (especially after hearing her speak) but the 2 times i've read this book (aloud.
once to students, once to my 8 year old son), i've had the same, certain emotional reaction that produces a particular physiological response that i'm typically not given to.
Some of the pictures stand alone in ability to convey the reality of her words.i'm not saying that a books ability to cause particular physiological responses is cause for 5 stars in and of itself but still...i've read it twice and twice it had that effect.
Pink and Say is a heartwarming yet heart-wrenching story of two young boys who both are serving in the Union Army.
Say and Pink begin to build a relationship and they become friends and even consider each other to be family.
After the murder of Moe Moe Bay, Pink's mother, by marauders (plunderers) the boys head back to rejoin their troops.
Along their journey they are caught and imprisoned by the Confederate Army.
This book has a very serious undertone and takes a look at the racism and effects of war through the eyes of two young, scared, teenage boys.
This moment in the story sheds light on how young the soldiers were who were fighting in the Civil War. It really shows how frightened these soldiers were and how their age may have played a role in that.
It could be done around Presidents' Day. I think that too often we wait until students are older to teach them some of the most important moments in our history.
We teach young students about the Civil Rights movement but I feel like the Civil War isn't something that is too often seen.
But I think that this book would be a great way to introduce the Civil War to students.
This book follows the friendship and kindness that develops between a young African American soldier named Pink and a young White soldier named Say during the Civil War. Say is discovered badly wounded near a battlefield and is taken by Pink to his house in the countryside, where his Mother nurses the young soldier back to health.
As he recovers, Say forms a bond with Pink and his Mother, and begins to understand what life is like as an African American family during this time.
The powerful message the book portrays is sure to leave readers with a clear understanding of how a true friendship can develop when outward appearances are set aside.
This Patricia Polacco historical fiction picture book deals with the period of the Civil War in the United States.
The subject matter in this story deals with slavery, war, friendship, love, and death.
Patricia does a good job painting a picture of what it would be like for two scared boys during a war that was fighting to end slavery.
The author has a way of connecting her readers to the lives of the characters she writes about.This story deals with a lot of tough topics, but it also gives hope to the reader through the power of friendship and perseverance.
In the story, two boys (one black and one white) are 15 year old, Union soldiers.
The white boy, Say, is wounded and is rescued by Pink, a black soldier.
As the story ends, there is is a sentimental scene that represents the boys friendship - Pink reads the Bible to his mom and to Say, and he tells Say that he once shook Abraham Lincoln's hand.
Then the boys hold hands one last time so that Pink can "touch the hand that touched Mr. Lincoln." Moreover, this picture book is specifically brought to life through the pictures that represent friendship, regardless of race.
The story follows their time together as Say gets better enough for them to both return to the war.
The book uses vernacular and language of the time which might make it hard to comprehend for lower elementary students.
Pink gives good descriptions of what is why like fighting in the war and why he was fighting to get rid of "the sickness".
The ending of the book will show to the students there were so many young "colored soldiers" that didn't have the opportunity to grow old, have a family and leave a legacy.
Genre: Historical FictionThis book is about two soldiers, one white and one black, and the friendship they form while fighting in the Civil War. It describes the challenges they face, and the different paths their lives take due to the color of their skin.
The message in the story could be discussed as a class and show how civil rights began and just because you were black or white didn't always determine your beliefs.
Students could read this along with other books about the Civil War and compare the perspectives of the main characters (soldiers on both sides).
Pink and Say is a heartfelt story about two young boys who befriend each other during the Civil War. Pink is a white boy who finds the injured Say, an African American boy, while both were fighting for the Union.
Her narration of the story tugs at the heart of its readers.Students reading this book will be able to get a glimpse of life during this turmultous period of time, from the perspective of two young boys.
This picture book for upper elementary students is a great book to use in a unit on the civil war.
I used this book for part of a Civil War unit for 5th graders and it was a great fiction book to help students connect with an event that seems to be so far removed from their lives.
Pink's mother is so nurturing and accepting of Say and in the end risks her life for the two of them.
This is a great book to use to open a unit on the Civil War and engage older students and begin discussions about what life was like during the Civil War and at the time of slavery.
I really loved this book that I read for historical fiction.
This book is a pretty quick read but within those pages is a beautiful, moving story.
This book is amazing and I have no doubt that I will recommend and use it as a read aloud some day.
I think that even though it is a picture book, I would still read it aloud in fifth grade.
For a teaching idea, in fifth grade, students learn about the civil war in the fourth quarter.
I think that this book would be a great introduction.
This book has many pictures that students can analyze.
Based on true events in the author's life, Pink and Say tells the story of two young Civil War soldiers.
The year it was published, Pink and Say earned its place as a staple for seventh grade read-alouds at our school.
After the students have re-fought the Civil War during their week-long Humanities simulation, and after they have been in "battle," then is the time for Pink and Say. Although I've been reading it every year at least twice, the last pages are so perfect, so appropriately honoring the gift of care in a time of danger and hope, that I weep each time.
Polacco tells the story in her ancestor Sheldon's voice; his narration, in dialect, drives home how young he really is.
Polacco doesn't pull her punches--Sheldon talks frankly about the massacre on the battlefield, Pinkus talks about living in slavery, and the tale itself is not a happy one.
For children who can handle the mature themes of the story, it's an excellent exploration of the lives of blacks and of young soldiers during the Civil War. And just as Sheldon intended when he passed this tale to his daughter, it serves as a memorable tribute to Pinkus Aylee and his bravery and friendship.
Patricia Polacco has the most beautiful way of weaving stories together, and Pink and Say is no exception.
This is the story of two young Union soldiers: Sheldon (Say), a farmer's son from Ohio, and Pinkus (Pink), the son of slaves in Georgia.
Although the story ends tragically, Polacco challenges readers to remember the story of Pinkus Aylee and honor his life and service.
This story communicates both the tragedy of the War Between the States and the beauty of human kindness and brotherly love that exists in spite of cruel hatred in the world.
This is a picture book that tells a true story that was handed down to the author through several generations of family members.
Polacco tells how her great-great-grandfather, Sheldon Russell Curtis, was wounded as a boy of fifteen fighting for the Union army during the Civil War. He is rescued by Pinkus Aylee, who is also a young Union solder, but also a former slave.
Polacco’s family has kept the memory of Pinkus alive in honor of a brave soul who knew what ideals were worth fighting for.Reaction: Pink and Say is a wonderful picture book that helps young readers understand the horrors of war and slavery.
Reading Level: 5th Grade and older15 year old Pinkus (pink) Aylee, a black union soldier ends up separated from his unit and finds 15 year old Say Curtis, a white union soldier wounded.
Pink manages to get to his Moe Moe's (mother) house where she nurses Say back to health.
Maurauders come to the house and while Pink & Say are well hidden, Moe Moe is killed.
Devestated, the boys head off to return to their units and are captured and taken to Andersonville prison.
The artwork is amazing - the colors - the moments captured - expressions of pain and love.
Opening this book, I was surprised to find that what I thought to be the first page of the story was not.
I was thrown off because not many books that I have seen or read have a full illustration on the dedication page, but this one does.
I really like how Patricia Polacco, in many of her stories have multi-racial characters because this is not found in very many children books.
(1 Historical Fiction)Pink and Say is a very serious book, I wouldn't read it to young children. This book invoked a lot of emotion. It would be a good book to use when talking about the young soldiers of the Civil War. The somber illustration just adds to the emotional aspects of the story.
I used this book to teach the signpost "Contrasts and Contradictions" to my 4th and 5th grade students. I was able to go into a lot of depth and my students had a lot of great discussion.
