https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40940157-swamplandia
Perhaps it should force me to reexamine deeply held prejudices, or at least preferences, which would make me grow as a reader and a person, ultimately making me more open-minded, forgiving, and calm.Or maybe it’s just a bad book.Let’s start with this: I hate short stories.
Be careful what you wish for; you could wind up with a big sprawling messy novel, filled with inconsistent characters, a terribly paced plot arc, a horribly disappointing ending, and very little reward for the long slog.
There is no "woo hoo" in this book at all.
I incorrectly interpreted the strangeness of this book to be something mystical and otherworldly, like a Floridian Alice in Wonderland.
At first, like our heroine Ava, I was inspired to believe that interesting things -things that defy the laws of the universe- were afoot.
But then, also like Ava and the rest of her family, I was cruelly bitch slapped by the real world.
For poor Ava, "bitch slap" doesn't even begin to cover it.
This is not a swampier Alice in Wonderland ...
I really wanted to like this book. It came with high praises and witty blurbs. It came with a cool cover. It started out fun and quirky: a family of alligator wrestlers living on a Florida island, running their own crazed theme park. But halfway into the story, I am stranded in the swampland. Stranded not by fierce monster gators, but by beautiful pointless writing with no movement toward either crisis or resolution. It's a mystery to me why this doesn't work, but it just doesn't. Beautifully written nothing.
There is a poignancy about Ava, who sorely misses her mother, worries about Kiwi and Ossie, and dreams of taking her mother’s place as a top performer and saving the day.
She will ultimately take her own harrowing journey with a guide known as the Bird Man, who takes her on both a physical and emotional odyssey right to the very gates of hell.Karen Russell offers a profound knowledge of the world she creates – the hatching and care of the alligators, the imperiled swamp, the back-history (including the massacred Seminoles), the isolation and innate wisdom of those who live off the mainland.
Or did the real trouble begin at conception, when promising young fictionist Karen Russell had the idea to expand one of her rightly celebrated short stories into a novel?Sadly, I'm jumping on board the disappointed bandwagon of folks who found Russell's debut novel a non-starter.
Because everyone likes Karen Russell and wants to give her a hand, even though she wrote a book that's not actually very good?
I wouldn't mind passing an evening or two in her company, cuddling on a couch, going over her ideas for new stories.
But my critiques would be merciless in those cuddle-workshop sessions, because sweet young Karen just isn't there yet.
Whenever I read a review on good reads that starts: "This was too dark" I just roll my eyes.
Bring on the complexity, bring on the darkness.
But this may have been too dark and sad even for me, not saved by an end that felt tacked-on.
Darkness and sadness this deep needs some hint of humor to make it bearable, and this story is almost completely unrelievedly, unremittingly dark.
One major character (Ossie) is a total cipher, and at the end of the book, I had no idea what happened, either with her character or with her plotline.
I feel like I was sold a bill of goods.
I liked what I was sold — a book with some seriously beautifully depicted magical realism, a hero with a call, and an unlikely helper, almost a spirit guide.
In addition, considering all of the unresolved, un-dealt-with issues that were still hanging on all of the siblings, what was with the feel-good ending?
And then Goodreads recommended that I read it.
They are understood, I hope.This is one of those books that you start out kind of liking: who doesn't want to read about an alligator park in Florida where the mother of 3 children is a phenomenal alligator wrestler.
But the eldest, a boy, decides to run away to make money for the family at ::gasp:: the rival big money amusement park.
And then she runs away with him?
How does one run in a swamp...?
Read my synopsis:(view spoiler)[A girl named Ava lives on an island in the swampy everglades with her dad, who calls himself the chief but isn't actually Native American at all, and her sister and brother.
The brother, Kiwi, runs away from home, moves to the mainland, where he gets a job at the competition - a stupid theme water park with a Hell theme.
Ava, reading the note that her sister has run away, goes to find Ossie.
After days and days of traveling and getting crazy far from the world, he feels confident enough to get down to rape business.
There is a hint of all coming out too well for these characters in the end, but I don't really fault Russell for this.
Narrative tension is a tricky thing, but Russell balances it smoothly throughout a long and complex story, if it does get away from her a bit just at the end.
Russell's beginning seems a bit sluggish, and her ending does not fully satisfy, but there is genuine craft in the 200+ pages that come between.
i was ready to like it, to praise its finely crafted prose - until maybe 50 pages in, when i started to feel some serious reading fatigue from all the Finely Crafted Prose (emphatic capitalization necessary).
the moment i knew i was done with trying to like this book was when the POV switched from first-person ava to third-person kiwi.
well - the kiwi sections do contain a greater amount of ironic quoting, ironic italization, ironic punctuation, and of course ironic capitalization; sometimes, as a special treat, we get all four in one sentence - all of it i suppose as a concession to the fact that we're dealing with a "real" Teenage Boy!
Here, she vividly describes a meal made by Chief Bigtree, the wayward father of the book: “Tiny broccoli florets floated in the gluey cheese like a forest consumed by lava." The sky, “yawned blue at us, then disappeared.” Another one of my favorite sky sentences, “A huge hole in the middle of the ceiling opened into the clear night sky: it looked as if some great predator had peeled the thatched roof back, sniffed once, and lost interest.”Swamplandia is funny too, especially in Kiwi's sections, the brother who shares the narration with his sister Ava. The friends that gather around him, Vijay in particular, provide lots of laughs.
Stephen King says: "Sisters Ava and Ossie Bigtree are left in charge of their family’s fading Everglades theme park, Swamplandia!, when a flashier attraction (World of Darkness — think hell with roller coasters) opens nearby.
Russell is a tremendously gifted writer, and Swamplandia!
Don’t miss it."I thought this book was wonderful; the writing sublime, the characters well-developed and compelling.
The inside flap does not hint at the sinister side of the story; I found it surprising they omitted this important component.
I'm surprised by how many less-than-enthusiastic reviews there are here.
I thought it was unique and enthralling.
Seventeen-year-old son Kiwi, who has read nearly every book on the old beached library ship, decides to run off to the mainland and get a job to help meet the mortgage payment.Russell uses young Ava as her naïve first person narrator.
The book got off to a great start, but the more pages I turned, the more my attention drifted away, and it basically never came back again.I preferred Kiwi's reality-based story of teenage angst, lousy jobs and tiny paychecks much more than Ava's magical mystery trip into the swamp to keep her sister from marrying a ghost.
There is one lovely book-related quote:Heaven, Kiwi thought, would be the reading room of a great library.
The whole place would hum with a library's peace, filtering softly over you like white bars of light.I'm tempted to tack on another star for originality AND because I always dreamed of living in a theme park, but mostly I'm just glad to be done reading this.
Karen Russell's talent for imagery is insane, I have a major obsession with circus/carnival fiction, this book even has a bear that's a member of the family named Judy Garland (criminally underused, by the way).
It probably deserves more like 2.5 stars, because it's got its strong points, but it could and should have been so much better.It starts out really well.
But as the narrative splits into its alternating POVs (Kiwi at the World of Darkness and Ava's quest) each tendril of the story becomes increasingly knotty and dried-out until they both apparently run out of steam and die off.
Maybe next time, Karen Russell.
I was excited to start this book - an expanded look at the family of alligator wrestlers and owners of the title's theme park that we saw in "Ava Wrestles the Alligator." I figured that if Russell had the space of a novel to tell this family's story, surely she could manage to give us a halfway-satisfying ending, and I could spend more time reading about her not-quite-real-world setting.
Weird and fascinating....
Swamplandia is the story of a family on the verge of failure, and the various ways that collapse comes to pass after Hilola Bigtree, mother, wife and celebrated alligator wrestler, dies suddenly.
It's the story of a family struggling in uncertain economic times, being squeezed out by a corporate theme park, and the various ways Chief Bigtree and his three children, Kiwi, Osceola and Ava try to cope.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
It is certainly not for everyone, as it is deeply dark and tragic and switches between silliness and terror in the unclear haze of magical realism, but it is also evocative, captivating, and full of wonderfully vivid prose ruminating on love and the loss of childhood.
Magical Realism aside, the haze of understanding what gripped and motivated the characters outside of Ava and, to a lesser extent, Kiwi is far too murky.
And the ending - which I won't ruin here - is rushed and entirely unsatisfactory given the immensity of events that immediately precede it.
And it's set in Florida, land of my sticky swampy childhood (o heart, o little busted swampheart).
she has NO instinct for measuring out her exquisite phrases in palatable dollops; she just smears them all over every page with the mindless wonky-eyed mania of a two-year old frosting a cake--globs and wads of sugarpaste everywhere, enough so I felt overloaded--bored, even.
I mean, in a book so squelchy-full of lovely, lovely things-to-say, I did not dog-ear a single page, coz they all just ran together in a bad applesauce of Poetic Turns of Phrase.THE THING IS, THAT'S MY SHIT.
I looooove a fucken squelchy overload of poetic turns of phrase!
After a certain point, Russell runs out of things to say but the narrative contineus.The other portion of the novel is devoted to Ava's brother, Kiwi, who runs away to the mainland in an effort to save the family but finds himself working at a competing amusement park, the Biblically inspired World of Darkness.
The alternating narratives never really coincided in either temporal location or theme and I found this to really disjointed and somewhat clumsy.Although I was unimpressed by her first novel I still think Karen Russell is a writer to keep an eye on.
An oddly belligerent and evasive father, Captain Bigtree, a geeky-smart and naive brother, Kiwi, who runs away at 17 to work at a mainland theme park, and a sister, Ossie, who has delusions about romances with dead men she conjures on her Ouija Board, complete the cast of characters.
I was with the book until Ossie runs away with an imaginary dredge operator (whose overly long history I skimmed through), and Ava leaves to search for her with a stranger who calls himself the Bird Man. I wondered at the sexual implications of a thirteen-year-old girl and a strange man leading her into the swamp -- why did the inevitable result happen deep in the swamp rather than the first night he was alone with her at her house?
was a novel that really should have been a few strong short stories instead.There was a lot to like about the book.
"gets confused about what kind of book it wants to be." There's a dissociation between the tone and diction of the narration from the setting and the events of the story.
It's like the narrator is a talking head floating over all of it.
I honestly really did like his first section in The Underworld.It's a novel by a short story writer, much too episodic and without a strong enough through line.In the end, Swamplandia!
I had two criticisms of this otherwise enjoyable book: First, I can suspend disbelief, but only for so long and under the right conditions...and when an author resorts to stretching it too far (having a 16-year old learn to fly an airplane, and on his first time out, happen upon not one, but TWO of his lost sisters - for whom he was not looking- then execute a perfect landing to rescue them both in the swamps) in order to wrap things up, I feel betrayed.
Very powerful. Can the alligator- wrestling Bigtree family survive the death of their star (and beloved mother) Hilola and the popularity of new rival theme park 'World of Darkness'? Each family member reacts differently to the two- pronged crisis but when elder daughter Osceola slopes off to the Underworld to marry her host fiance, Louis Thanksgiving, and her 13 year-old sister enlists the help of the enigmatic Bird Man to go after her, the family unity is tested to its limits. Brilliantly written and wholly absorbing, this is a stunning novel.
When I reached a climax of sorts three-quarters of the way through, I realized how perfectly Russell had set up the book to close in around you.
Similarly, the facade of sad, cheap, remote amusement parks that constitutes 11-year-old Ava's world - the world that her parents created for her, far from the "mainland" - disintegrates around her on the furthest point from home of her journey.
The overriding theme seemed to be loss of the safety, protection and love that a parent provided – and as far as dead parents go, Hilola BigTree is a hell of a character.
The satire comes fast and furious in these chapters.Ava’s story takes a distinct gothic and eerie turn as her sister runs away also and, fearing that Osceola is in danger, Ava sets out to find her with the help of a vagabond called the Bird Man. A sort of avian Pied Piper wearing a coat of feathers and perhaps possessing magical qualities, the Bird Man travels around the islands of the Everglades offering to remove troublesome birds for a fee:"What's your name?""Ava.""Ava." The Bird Man shook my hand.
Pros:I do love the way Russell describes things, and the swamp is mysterious, unpleasant, and beautiful all at once.The idea of expanding a short story.
Hard to say why without spoilers.Getting to know the Bigtrees takes some of the beauty of the quirky mysterious peek we get in the short story version.
The God I prayed to I thought of as the mother, the memory of love.""Sweating could feel dangerous when you were alone in the swamp, as if droplet by droplet your body might get whisked into the sun.""When you are a kid, you don't know yet that a secret, like an animal, can evolve.
This review has been revised and can be found at Expendable Mudge Muses Aloud.
