https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/916764.Snow_Dog
Kjelgaard is completely underrated. The only thing that might've improved this book would have been a longer resolution to solidify the happy ending. Even the portrayal of wolves didn't really bother me, because Kjelgaard made it fairly clear that this one wolf is just an a**hole.
This story drew me in from the first page.
The story focuses mostly on a young dog/puppy that, through a series of interesting, and tragic circumstances, grows up in the wild.
His mixed genetics give him an edge in physical and mental capabilities (in a way that at least seemed realistic to me) that enable him to survive the challenges of life in the wild even from a young age.When a trapper gets a hold of him, though, the conflict begins as he tries to capture the dog's heart as well as its body.
The story leads to a climax you won't expect, and goes from severely tragic to one of those endings that make you wish for a sequel (and, thankfully, that is where Wild Trek comes in).
I'm pretty sure I picked this book up at one of the school book fairs (do they still do this?!).I recently found out I'm pregnant, and anyone who has been pregnant knows that you can forget everything you know and love and who you are your 1st trimester - 
I'm well in to my 2nd trimester now and recently started feeling more "normal" or about as normal as anyone with a watermelon for a belly could feel :PI decided I needed to ease my way back in to reading, so browsing through my shelves, I knew I wanted something small.
This book is about a dog and her three newborn pups as they try to defend for themselves in the harsh winter months.
It is an inspiring story about a dog having pups.
It is a very thrilling story.I would recommend this book to someone around the age of 13 to 15 and is intended for any gender.
I think that anyone who read it in that age group would enjoy it.
That is what I think about this book.I rated the book 5 stars because it was an inspiring story and about the tough life of a dog.
I think every one who reads this book will enjoy it.
I found this book boring at first. I don't really like reading about forests and boring stuff like that. I am not really interested in those types of books but this book reminded me of hatchet, which is a book I actually enjoyed. The lack of dialogue made this book boring but also unique. Jim Kjelgaard made it so that the whole book was descriptive which made it boring but it also painted a picture in my head. It was cliche with the whole dog-boy relationship but overall I don't really regret reading this.
Another book for young readers but I always did like books about dogs and the outdoors. I used to read all these books when I was in elementary so this was a nice little flashback for me. I enjoyed it but your elementary aged kids might enjoy it more. :)
I probably liked this book way better when I was younger than I do now. Told from the dog's perspective. I'm not all in with some of his depictions of wolf psyche. If you compartmentalize that out, the story is told well.
Another childhood favorite. I used to check this one out from our elementary school library again and again.
Kjelgaard knew dogs, that's for sure. An excellent book.
In the beginning of the book it was really slow and boring and never caught my attention and it never improved enough and I thought it was boring through out the book and didn't get that interesting.
This is an amazing book about a wild dog whose goal is the avenge his family's death. Tense, exciting, and well-written, Kjelgaard makes this book come alive.
The thing I enjoy the most was that the dogs mom died in a fight to save the life of the dog but later his brothers died because of the Wolf.
Later he got stuck in a trap and a trapper found him in the snow.
The dog was a big help to the trapper when he went out to set his traps and hunting for food.
But one day when the dog was hunting the trapper went to look at his traps and encounter the wolf who killed the family of the dog.
This story explores the challenges involved in trying to train a wild dog, as well as the challenges faced by the dog itself. I found myself cheering for both dog and man as I read. They come up against some tough obstacles. Learning to face them together is the challenge. The dog has some difficult choices to make. Watching to see what he'll do next is what this book so suspenseful, a true page turner.
This was a really good book full of beautiful imagery. Much of the book is spent from the perspective of Chiri the dog in the wild and it is quite a unique and wonderful technique and experience to read a book with little dialogue and instead just trying to get into the minds of the animals in the wild. Well written, very well done. Definitely would want to read another of his books. Only con? Felt like a strange place for an ending.
Snow Dog was a book filled with exciting wilderness adventures and plot twists that kept me on the edge of my seat. Link, a fur trapper, lives a life in the wilderness with his dogs as his only companions. Link's greatest companion, a husky mix named Chiri, comes in and out of his life throughout the story. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes shorter reads about dogs and the wilderness.
I love kjelgaard! This book is a 2 day quick read for me but I still love it. I have read his setter series(big red) and other Alaskan husky type books and I've never read a bad one from him! Seriously he's underrated and if you are on the edge about getting into his books... Well, you know what I'll say to that!
this story is about a steel gray husky chiri the black wolf killed his mother and his brothers. now full grown and full of courage and cunning, chiri forms a tentative bond with trapper link stevens, the only human hes ever learned to trust but the husky knows that one day soon he will have to face the black wolf again--and only this time one of them will survive
I first read this book in Jr. High that was about 50 years ago. And I've got to say I think I enjoyed it just as much this time. I've always enjoyed books about the Alaskan wilderness. Looking forward to reading the followup "Wild Trek" which I've never read before.
I really liked Jim Kjelgaard books when I was 4th or 5th grade. A solid writer.
Another really good story from Jim Kjelgaard.
Not London, but fun.
Better than Call of the Wild.
Ok book about dog adventure.
like dessert dog the beginning was super strong but then it just got really boring so i stopped reading it.
My 7 & 10 yr old boys really liked this book.
Snow Dog has a reading level of 7.4.
This book is mainly about a dog owner Link Stevens.
His new dog queen is very shy and doesn’t humans.The lesson of this book is mainly to keep trying and working hard even if it seems like you are not accomplishing anything but keep going and good things will happen.
This book is a very interesting book, so many things happen good and bad.
Link Stevens/the dog owner is a fun and scary surrounding.
I would really recommend this book because if you don’t like to read it is only a 150 page book.
Like these books, I find no reason it should be classified as “children’s fiction.” The trapper, Link Stevens, is about nineteen when the story begins, which in my mind should make it YA.
This is an often brutal coming-of-age story, particularly in regards to Chiri, the titular snow dog.
Structurally, the book seemed a little loose and rushed towards the end, but that is my only real complaint.All in all, this is a good, old-fashioned adventure which should be enjoyable for more readers than just children.
As mentioned before, this book is often brutal.
Keep the time period in mind as you read.
The trapper's search for the dog proves fruitless, and when he gives up, we follow the trail of the dog and her pups as they fight and live and grow and die in their quest for survival, ever stalked by the menacing wolf and his pack.
At last, the trapper meets one of the grown pups - but the two have little time to overcome their mutual wariness before they are faced by a growing threat in the forest.
Reads like an old western or Royal Canadian Mounted Police story, but this time about a trapper and his dog.
The theme is for Call of the Wild, White Fang, Child of the Wolves, and anyone who are interested in animals and the human effect on them, especially if people love dogs and want to learn the difference with them and wolves.
It has high amount of details, and has language easy enough for seven year old to comprehend.
Chiri is a husky who learned about the wilderness by himself.
His mother was killed (but still fought valiantly), against a black wolf.
Chiri learned to fend for himself and hunt.
Chiri then had to face the black wolf again, in which there would be no lucky escapes.
Wow! I always thought that Jack London was the undisputed patriarch of animal survival stories. That was until I read "Snow dog." In a gripping, yet hauntingly tragic tale of wilderness adventure, Kjelgaard seamlessly intertwines the stories of Chiri and Link; separate until together. I thoroughly enjoyed "White Fang" and "The Call of the Wild," and frequently discuss them with my class during our genre discussions, but Kjelgaard has supplanted London as my favorite author of these unique stories. I cannot wait to read his other books!
