https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2179276.The_Time_Paradox
(A-) 84% | Very GoodNotes: Treats adolescence as a mind-altering drug and youth as a more singularly-focused, less compunctious state of being.
But still this book has little problem which I faced.In this book, Artemis' mother gets ill by some serious disease.
With the help of fairies, Artemis gets back in time to find that species.
The whole book revolves around how he will get that species to present time through life threatening dangers.
Main problem is:  This thing didn't look good to me that, that species got extinct by Artemis himself when he was younger.
I liked that thing in previous books.
But in this book, this thing seems little baseless to me.
I LOVED this book! Eoin Colfer writes such great fun to read stories! I loved the ending of this book and the whole idea of the book too with the whole time traveling and Artemis meeting his past self and being outsmarted by his younger self. After reading this book, I definitely want to reread the first one again.Everyone must give Artemis Fowl a chance! It's a great series and one of my absolute favorites!
Listened to on audiobook by Listening Library, narrated by Enn Reitel.Very disappointed that Nathaniel Parker did not narrate this latest installment in the Artemis Fowl series.
Not that Enn did a bad job, it just wasn't the same.This story seemed a bit draggy and convoluted.
Artemis goes back in time to save a lemur that his earlier self had sold to an extinctionist society.
I don't know if it was because of the new narrator or if the story really wasn't up to par, but this was not my favorite Artemis Fowl book.
When did these books get so bad?
I hated the twins and Professor Primate and Holly being the biggest emotional wreck ever and THE KISS oh god don't get me started on the kiss.
I hated Artemis.
WHY would you create an evil super-genius with no morals and then have a long character arc set over six books where he eventually becomes a model citizen?
THAT was why the ending of the first book was so momentous.
(And yet I hated little!Artemis for being a whiny brat.
I guess he was too emotional at that age.)
“Ah, yes, the trusty time paradox. If I go back in time and kill my grandfather, then shall I cease to exist? I believe, as Gorben and Berndt did, that any repercussions are already being felt. We can only change the future, not the past or present. If I go back, then I have already been back.“  Artemis’s mother is sick and the only option how to save her is to travel in time and save a lemur, who only can cure her. But before he has to prevent his younger self, who’s helping with exterminatio
I loved the idea with the whole time traveling and duel between past-Artemis and present-Artemis but the end was really bad.
Don’t get me wrong, I really love this series and I can even say it’s one of my favorite ones but The Time Paradox contains few flaws I couldn’t get over:- the basic rule of time traveling is ‚don’t interact with anybody from the past or it will affect the present day‘ – what happend with it?
Holly and Artemis interacted almost with everyone with no effect on the future.- narration from past and present Artemis was sometimes really confusing.
In this book, Artemis and Holly must go back in time to change the past, because, as we all know, Artemis was kind of a douche when he was younger, and he made a ruthless deal with the...*shudder*...Extinctionists, whose goal is to make most animals in the world extinct.
These isolated interactions are just there, they are never fully explained, the reader says to him or herself "Wow, they should really be effing up the space-time continuum" but...nope, guess not.I don't have much to say about the characters, except that some of them have strange traits that were never mentioned before in any of the five books before it, therefore adding nothing to the story and, actually, retracting from it by ruining the immersion.
Another stellar visit into the world of Artemis Fowl (teenage genius) and Holly Short (captian of the L.E.P.).Back from the place where time doesn't exist (where he saved Number 1 - a warlock), three years has gone by but Artemis (and Holly) both find that they are the same as when they left on their last journey.
Artemis has two new (twin) 2 year old brothers.
Artemis (his 10 year old self) had the last lemur killed 8 years ago.
GO BACK IN TIME!Artemis and Holly get closer in this novel and you can see the bonds between the pair get stronger.
OMG! Artemis and Holly finally kissed! For an MG book, that's a huge big deal! She's like 35 in adult years and he's fourteen! And people think I write pervy stuff. Oh, Eoin, you devil. Can't wait to read the rest of the series. I've been shipping Artemis and Holly for ten damn years!
review to come
Okay, if you're going to have the main, surprising twist of a book be that some villain you thought was dead comes back for revenge, make it only happen ONCE.
Then it's good--that book was my favorite of the series.
And she has to come back in the possible seventh book because the ending is a cliffhanger--Opal gets away.Butler, Butler, Butler.
But does it have to be so confusing that at the end we find ourselves asking "What the hell just happened??"Perhaps the only thing I liked about this book was the last few sentences--how it connects back to the beginning with the thought "Fairies.
It's like a ghostwriter took up writing this one because Eoin Colfer couldn't be bothered, and everything just took a turn for the worse, with a ridiculous, rushed plot and additions like "Holly cracked her neck, she always did that before using magic" No, she didn't??
Such a thing was never mentioned in the previous not one, not two, but five books in the series.I don't care if I'm nitpicking, but I enjoyed the first few books, and even while reading the first few pages of this one, I knew I couldn't do it.
Too bad.I should also mention that I really hate time travelling in books.
Unfortunately, there are some missteps along the way--because things just aren't allowed to be simple for Artemis and Holly--and they end up with a lapful of trouble from Earth's greatest threat, Opal Koboi.As with the previous book, here is where Artemis's true character bursts through: the sarcasm, wit, and ever-abundant genius are still there, but interspersed with the will to help people other than himself or his immediate family, and the desire just to be a better person in general.
I wish I had been as persevering--or stubborn.This actually concludes my reread of the series; I have yet to read the seventh and eighth books for the first time.
I devoured his books, and I read multiple times.
I bought the sequels for my brother years after, but I never read them.
This kid outsmarted everyone, Holly Short (Spinella in Italian, which is the version I read) was a badass female character, the plot was not about romance, the whole Fairy People element was something that has always interested me, and it just was so good.
Plus, the writing is good, which makes the book enjoyable even though I'm not a child anymore.
This was ten times better than Harry Potter.

14 year old Artemis vs. 10 year old Artemis. It's super genius fun! It was a lot of fun to see just how far Artemis has evolved over the past 5 books. I almost found 10 year old Artemis a bit revolting. It should be interesting to see how his mom features in the next books now that she knows all of his secrets concerning the People. I wonder if he'll recruit his younger brothers for some of his future schemes.
i don't know why i bother reading the rest of these books.thy are getting worse.
can you believe Holly and Artemis are soulmates
What happened with the whole warning of "Don't interact with anybody from the past or it will affect the present" deal?
But then why would No. 1 and Foaly warn Artemis and Holly not to interact with anyone in the past?
Artemis seemed to remember the past wrongly.
This was a very important idea in the plotline - why were things not as Artemis remembered them?
Why was Artemis not smart enough to think of getting the lemur after his past self had sold it?
The past Artemis needed the money to find his father.
After the awkwardly misjudged character of Minerva Paradizo in the last book, the series really recovers its wings here, as we get back to Artemis and his fairy friends doing what they do best, going on a high-risk adventure of epic proportions.
This time Artemis is facing his toughest opponent yet – himself – and just when you thought that was tough enough Colfer throws in a huge twist that ups the stakes even more.
One thing's for sure - with a cliffhanger this size there's going to be plenty of action and adventure in the next book.9 out of 10
I didn't like this as much as other Artemis Fowl books I have read, but I liked the themes.
I was ready for the series to end last book, or when Commander Root died.
One of the interesting themes I found was when the book showed Commander Root's real feelings about Holly.
Another interesting theme is how you see your past selves.
Artemis meets his 10-year-old self in the past.
Artemis manipulated Holly Short to get her to agree to come into the past with him.
The themes were interesting to read about.
Okay, this is a weird one. I think Artemis Fowl has overextended and is grasping for story at this point. Here we find Artemis and Holly going back in time to save a lemur for the purpose of curing Angeline Fowl of a fairy disease. Things got a bit too coincidental, like Artemis having destroyed the very lemur he would need in the future. Oh well, hopefully the next one gets better.
Book 6 in the artemis fowl series was thoroughly enjoyable.
A good reader can make up for a slightly incompetent writer without me really noticing.
With that disclaimer, I'll say that I thought this book was quite good.
The series is very original and well-thought out, especially considering the sea of young adult fantasy that is full of so much flotsam and jetsam.
UT just started book 2 (reading, not listening) and he says it's awesome, so it must not be the reader, it must really be good.
This book was my favorite out of the whole series so far! Only 2 more books to go and I am finished with this series. Overall rating: 4.5!(:
I'm still really enjoying this series! Number 7 here I come.
Favorite book of all Artemis Fowl book
(9/10) It's always a risky strategy when time travel is involved, especially when you have your heroes tampering with their own pasts and altering the events leading up to previous books.
Colfer pulls it off very well resulting in the ultimate time paradox that will hurt your brain if you think too much about it.
There is always a strong environmental theme in these books, but this one in particular really hammered the point home, focusing on endangered species both real and mystical.
Definitely my favourite of the series after the first book, it goes a lot darker and there were a lot less fart gags and an altogether more serious tone.
¿Perderá la amistad de los eres mágicos para reparar ambos errores y poder entrar nuevamente en el túnel del tiempo y corregir lo que hizo a los 10 años?En realidad 3.7 eestrellasMe gusta cómo ha evolucionado Artemis, de pequeño mafioso sin corazón a adolescente serio, hermano mayor responsable, con tendencias poco “convencionales”, que toma café orgánico y cuyos mejores amigos son seres .Por ello disfruté este libro por partida doble, ya que en él ambos Artemis compiten por un mismo objetivo: un lémur sedoso, pero con motivaciones completamente diferentes y opuestas.Una cosa que me agrada mucho de Eoin Colfer es como introduce cada libro, siempre incluye una historia random sobre alguno de los personajes que se relaciona colateralmente con la historia posterior.
A very gripping tale... reading novels like these ensure that a parallel to the 'popular literature,' there is something called 'meaningful literature'. Cheers to the author!
Kelvin Sparks 805English Book Review In the book Artemis Fowl and The Time Paradox Artemis' mother is very ill and this disease is fatal and she caught it almost 'magically' and doctors, and the family are puzzled. A little bit later in the story Artemis discovers the mysterious disease is indeed magic, and is known as Spelltrophy, the N1 (a magical peace keeper fairy organization) had 'eradicated' the disease before. Artemis did the research and figured out the disease spreads with the use of m
Kelvin Sparks 805English Book Review In the book Artemis Fowl and The Time Paradox Artemis' mother is very ill and this disease is fatal and she caught it almost 'magically' and doctors, and the family are puzzled.
In the story Artemis faces an extremely tough decision which is: which more important saving a family members life, or saving the lives of multiple others.
I don't think that I can directly relate to this, but I have found riddles that confront every day people with a critical decision that somehow will leave people furious, even themselves.
