https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15823461-the-burgess-boys
The characters in the family were lackluster and boring, just like the plot, which plodded along sleepily and frequently got lost.The other topic of the book was what I assume was supposed to be a clever commentary on racism.
And a young boy is maybe going to get in trouble for something that maybe was racially provoked (a situation which maybe could have made an interesting story yet awkwardly faded away).
The topic was clumsily covered, and Strout missed the powerful commentary I assume she was going for.I was so bored with the book that I am bored even thinking about it in order to write this.
I don't think I'm giving much away when I say that a dysfunction-be-damned determination enables them to persevere.On a happier note the story has a hero, an elderly Somali gentleman who brings to America enough compassion and wisdom to transcend culture.There is a very nice prologue to the book where we meet the narrator and her mother, both natives of Shirley Falls.
In a nice piece of foreshadowing, daughter tells Mom that she will tell the story of that family.
Elizabeth Strout has written another novel about Maine and its people, but unlike Olive Kittredge, which is more episodic, The Burgess Boys is a tightly woven novel about a family, its secrets, and how the guilt of one brother has defined his life, as well as that of his twin sister, their older brother, their spouses, and their children.
Jim Burgess, famous trial lawyer and Bob Burgess, appeals lawyer, must return to the town from their homes in Brooklyn and help out their sister, Susan, whose son, Zach, has admitted to the crime.
The siblings fall into the roles they had as children: Jim, the wisecracking, critical older brother, Bob: the schmuck, and Susan: the needy one who never could get herself organized.
cue the music to the Brady Bunch theme songHere's the story,Of a lonely lady,Who was bringing up her
Non ho bisogno di happy ending.Mai incontrata, finora, la Strout così attenta e concentrata sulla trama: la divisione in quattro libri, ciascuno a sua volta suddiviso in capitoli, mai così brevi, e nel caso dei più lunghi è presente un’ulteriore scansione in paragrafi.Ci sono molte parti in cui Strout descrive la reazione della stampa, tv e giornali, ai fatti da lei raccontati – e anche le reazioni della gente, quella generica, non solo i protagonisti.Questa volta è forte la sensazione che Strout stia raccontando una storia più dei suoi personaggi – personaggi che lascia parlare con abbondanza di dialogo, elemento che in questo quarto romanzo ha più spazio, ed è più importante, che nelle opere precedenti.Una trama con colpi di scena e rivelazioni, vere e proprie confessioni, che Strout controlla sapientemente senza lasciare campo a esplosioni.A tratti sembra una lenta discesa verso una probabile tragedia, e nella pulizia delle parole, quasi troppo semplici e limpide, si avverte un'inspiegabile inquietudine.
here are the things that don't compute in my mind after having read the book:why the boy threw the pig's headwhy the boy is small and scrawny and ill-adaptedwhy the siblings don't get alongwhy they all worship jimmy(view spoiler)[why everyone falls apartwhy everyone gets glued together againwhat makes bob do/get betterwhat makes the sister do/get betterwhy jimmy becomes a bumwhy the boy comes back home.
i understand that maine is full of somali people and that the locals are having a hard time coming to terms with that, but this is a strange way to address that.
Zach's arrest brings two New York brothers back to their childhood home in Shirley Falls, Maine, to help their sister Susan.There are characters here that I truly liked and a few that I loathed, but this did not ruin my enjoyment of Strout’s writing.
The narration by Cassandra Campbell was able to capture the down east flavor of what it truly means to be brought up in Maine, and easily transitioned between Susan and the Burgess Boys that fled to New York.
I do have to admit it took me awhile to get into the groove with this but in audio this is often the case.
I well remember the controversy in Lewiston, ME in 2006 when a pig's head was thrown into a Somali Muslim mosque.
I've lived in Maine for 46 years and yet still am labeled "from away." And this novel is largely about being "away" - from self, family, meaningful work, marriage, children, siblings, immigrants, tradition and change.Estranged by geography and the death of their father (the truth of which unfolds in the end), the twins, Bob and Susan, and their older brother Jim don't like each other much.
I loved Olive Kitteridge, so I stayed with it.
The big story here is all of the familial relationships.
There are some messed up family dynamics here, but all of the characters showed considerable growth throughout, which earned this book a four from me.
I love the way Strout writes, and she does families and small town dynamics really, really well.
The Somali storyline was interesting, but not the main event.
These relationships are Strout's strength, in my opinion, so if you enjoy family and marriage dynamics, particularly where there is discord, you'll enjoy this one.
I'm really conflicted on this one: I love Elizabeth Strout, I love her writing style and the way she gets in to her character's heads - I did not love this book. I wanted to, but I just disliked the characters, and I didn't always understand them or their motivations. I would still recommend it to fans of hers, but I was disappointed by it.
(The former claim was incorrect - most all welfare benefits were going to the Irish and Franco-Whites who came for good mill jobs starting well over a century beforehand, and now had no jobs available except for low-pay, service economy "McJobs".) His letter is here: http://www.immigrationshumancost.org/....The Somalis moved into many of the boarded up houses in Lewiston previously occupied by the mill workers, and started building a community, including starting stores in the adjacent downtown area, again filling often vacant storefronts.
I loved Olive Kitteridge, but I did not love this book.
I thought the story with Zak throwing the pig's head into the mosque had great potential.
Why didn't Ms. Strout develop Zak's character more?
I never felt like we got to know any of the main characters very well--not like the Olive Kitteridge character.
And what I did know of them, I didn't like.
I can honestly say I did not like a single character in this book.
Don't waste your time with this book or expect it to be great just because you loved Olive Kitteridge.
Take a dysfunctional family, raised in a small town in Maine by a mother who liked to yell quite a bit, and who raised some unlikable children, and one would usually have a novel no one would want to read.
In Strout's daft hands, however, she is able to peel away the layers and make the reader want to take a second look.
Families and what that actually means, a crisis in which some people change for the better and some for the worst.
This is more than likely another novel of Strout's that will be picked by book clubs, and it should be.
It took me a long time to get into The Burgess Boys and to care about Jim, Bob, and Susan.
Bob, who is insecure and awkward, idolizes Jim and wants to be just like him.
YOU'RE WORTH TEN OF HIM!"Susan, who is Bob's twin sister, initially struck me as insensitive, mean-spirited and cold.
One of my favorite passages comes near the end of the book."You have family", Bob said.
I think this book might actually be better on a second reading.Thank you, Goodreads, and Random House Publishing Group for giving me the opportunity to review this advance copy.
In keeping with my new "rules", if it doesn't appeal move on to something that does.
I was interested in the beginning, but that passed very quickly and when the Somali issue arose I began to feel it was just too much like watching the news (which I promise I get enough of).
I may not have given this a fair chance, but that is OK, I have limited time and I need to find those books that speak to me.I have another Strout on my shelf and will give that one a go soon.
I did like the two of her books that I have already read.
While the writing itself is lovely, I had three real problems with The Burgess Boys that made it hard for me to love: (1) the incident at the heart of the novel--a teenage boy throws a pig's head into a Somali mosque in small-town Maine--is really just an excuse to look at the relationships between the people in that boy's family (his mother and two uncles, the "Boys" of the title).
Strout is excellent at creating down to earth relatable characters and Bob and Jim Burgess and their sister Sue are not exceptions.
In the process they begin to slowly unravel their pasts and come to terms with them.
Mostly they reacquaint themselves with the people they’ve become as adults and begin to shed childhood assumptions about their place in the family and how that impacts them as adults.
They dig at themselves and at one another but in the end they often come away with truths and a way to resurrect themselves.
The Burgess Boys gives us some sad and unlikable characters and pulls us into their story.
Her stories aren't full of suspense, twist and turns, hot romance or action packed.
They are the stories of real people living real lives.
This is a story about how we become the people we are, how we view ourselves, how we are influenced by surroundings and circumstance, and how we are able to change...maybe.
It is a story of prejudice and misunderstanding....both in a family and in the world.
It is a story of forgiveness and of letting go and moving forward.
3-1/2 StarsThe Burgess Boys revolves around the lives of 3 siblings and their families.
Elizabeth Strout is a talented writer and she gives her characters such life that you can feel it coming off the pages.
This is only my second book of hers I’ve read but I felt that in her other book as well (My Name is Lucy Barton).
However, The Burgess Boys did not have as strong of an impact on me.
I took some stars away for those reasons but I look forward to reading more of Strout’s work.
We can’t be sure, but what’s obvious is that his needy, stoop-shouldered personality has been shaped by the accident that killed their father when he was 4.And finally, there’s Jim and Bob’s sister, Susan, whose exclusion from the title, “The Burgess Boys,” is a fair reflection of her sad, sidelined life.
When Bob thinks, “He had no memory of life without Jim being the brightness of its center,” we get a sense of just how profound this connection is.As she showed in “Olive Kitteridge,” Strout is something of a connoisseur of emotional cruelty.
Driven by the sibling relationship of the Burgess family, the bond is tested and stretched to its breaking point.
Jim and Bob Burgess, both working in the law ring, have the natural brotherly bond.
Bob has always looked up to Jim. Jim is the All Around American All Star brother.
Lovable Bob, ruined by a childhood accident, just tries to bumble along, the real glue of the Burgess family.
Her son, Zach has committed a crime and needs his Uncles more than ever.
Can this broken family come together to help get Zach through this??The writing held it together for me.
So until I started reading the novels of Elizabeth Strout, the Maine I knew was a seaside play land for WASP aristocrats and the people who fed them their lobster.
Family struggles are at the center of The Burgess Boys also, but Strout sets some of the action in Park Slope, Brooklyn and the families in distress include Somali refugees who have been lured to Maine as part of a repopulation effort.
After reading this I think I prefer my earlier misconceived impression of Maine as the land of not just lobster, but also Jack Lemmon, who played a much nicer lawyer as Ms. Day's costar, than those Burgess boys will ever be.
This book is ostensibly about the Burgess siblings - big brother Jim and twins Bob and Susan - and the lingering affects of their childhood on their adult lives.
Bob, who's always kind of idolized Jim, also moves to New York but he settles for being a Legal Aid attorney.
It's one thing to have unlikable characters, but Strout took it to the extreme without offering sufficient exposition for their nastiness and the result is a bunch of people for whom I have no empathy and whose lives I feel no investment.It's not just the siblings, even the secondary and tertiary characters are all miserable, unpleasant, unredeeming assfaces.
The characters that would be most likely to receive that kind of connection were on the periphery - Zach, the troubled child who ends up in legal trouble over his head; the Somalian refugees trying to live in an accidentally/traditionally racist community.
I just would have rather heard the refugees story than the Burgess boys.
Cassandra Campbell did the audio performance of the book, and I can't really judge her Maine accents because I'm not sure I've ever heard one, although they sounded more southern than northern to me.
The author herself states that it is impossible to fake a Maine accent.
At first, I thought this book was somewhat, for lack of a better word, dull.
I had just come from reading  And The Mountains Echoed which was about family and surely Ms Strout's novel covering family as well had very stiff competition.
While I thought the second half of the book was more engrossing and generally better written, it just could not seem to make up for the first half.There is no doubt that Ms Strout has in this novel established characters that are very clear in their wants, needs, and desires.
This book is all about character and or the lack of it.
This book resonated with me because, like the Burgess boys of the title, my family suffered a tragedy when I was a baby.
The defining event of their lives was the death of their father in a tragic accident which was caused by one of the boys, although he was only 4 years old at the time.
Through their individual stories, many sweeping issues are explored, including mass immigration and its effect on communities; how race, religious, and class differences cause people to misunderstand each other; the importance of personal responsibility, compassion and forgiveness.
Un romanzo che si interroga sul rapporto tra tempo e dolore , responsabilità e fuga Leggevo in un'intervista a Elizabeth Strout Immagini di essere un'aspirante scrittrice che deve vendere I ragazzi Burgess a un editore: come lo descriverebbe?- "La storia di uomini e donne che sono costretti ad affrontare un dolore rimosso dal quale si sono illusi di poter sfuggire. E che ora possono crescere, sapendo che con ogni probabilità sbaglieranno di nuovo ".A me è bastato . Me l'ha venduto subito !
Even better, I think the author added to the conversation that that allegorical story of Golding started.Why do many societies devolve into dictatorships and brutality?
In the USA, the hierarchical order of religion, family or culture is more benign, but the light control nonetheless is felt as a threat to personal liberty, so we've (I'm an American) swung the other way - so much that we often appear to be under the dictatorship and cruelty of individualism.
Dove sono finiti i cieli freddi e tersi del Maine e le parole di un'autrice finora capaci di far perdere lo sguardo fra quegli spazi esteriori e l'introspezione dei suoi personaggi?(Bob) - «Non aveva ricordi di una vita di cui Jim non fosse stato il centro luminoso.»(Susan) - «Ed era troppo tardi.
I won this book as part of Goodread's first reads program.This was my first Strout novel.
I didn't find anything I liked about the characters until so late in the novel that I was almost to the point of giving up hope for them.It was also a very random book.
There were a few random characters that we spent too much time with that detracted from the main story.
Revisiting the character later on caused some confusion as I had to pause to think what these minor characters had to do with the plot.
For me, momentary confusion reigned through the book.
