https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78165.Rousseau_and_Revolution
Though Shirer is no mean writer himself, Durant is infinitely easier and more pleasant to read; and despite this book’s hefty bulk—one of the biggest in the series—it is so enjoyable and covers so many topics that it hardly feels taxing.
Granted, Durant achieves this fluid grace by writing something that is arguably not history, but rather an interconnected series of biographies with a bit of context thrown in.
Durant weaves the stories of famous writers, painters, sculptors, architects, philosophers, and scientists into a fascinating tapestry that adds crucial context and meaning to their works.
I always come away from Durant with more books to read and more places to see.
And in fact, their idea of synoptic history is predicated on the idea that a civilisation can be summarised by a gentleman (and lady) scholar with sufficient time on his hands, because there is a Artistic Canon comprised of what was good in that time.
France is a better use of time than studying Voltaire or Watteau, just that both are aspects of an infinitesimally large tapestry.Also, this book contains an enormous amount, the great age of English rhetoric (Dr johnson, Walpole, Gibbon, Pitt, Burke, Charles Fox), the birth of liberalism (waddup Locke) and Romanticism and basically the seeds of all contemporary Western political discourse so, if you're going to just read one of these, maybe read this one.
This 10th volume of the Durant's magnificent History of Civilization is the most enjoyable so far.
The device of framing the history of the XVIII century with the twin avatars Voltaire (vol.
10) worked perfectly, even better than in previous volumes about Louis XIV and Caesar and Christ.
Revolution was the only way forward in 1789.
Yet one may feel sorrow at the barbarians taking power for a decade in Europe's most civilized state.The authors assumed this was the end of their work, as they wrote in a very moving afterword.
I am looking forward to volume 11, The Age of Napoleon.
This review applies to all Durant's History of Civilization. The author does not follow a strictly chronological approach, but emphasizes those events/personages that have developed our Western civilization. He tends to emphasize certain personalities - some of whom I take exception to - but he stresses those things which make Western man unique. The arts have a prominent place in developing our culture and Durant convinces the reader how important they are.
اولین بشری که با محصور کردن یک قطعه زمین به خود گفت «این مال من است» و اشخاصی را به آن حد از سادگی یافت که حرف او را باور کنند بانی واقعی جامعهٔ مدنی بود.
اولین بشری که با محصور کردن یک قطعه زمین به خود گفت «این مال من است» و اشخاصی را به آن حد از سادگی یافت که حرف او را باور کنند بانی واقعی جامعهٔ‌ مدنی بود.
Rousseau! The American Revolution! The philosophes! Samuel Johnson! The French Revolution! Edmund Burke! Yeah!!
Once I finish the final volume, The Age of Napoleon, I'll write a longer review of the entire set.
I will restate what I said after reading one of the earlier volumes, to wit that this is one of the greatest reading experiences of my life.
I'll read a few books to flesh out some of the more interesting topics from this volume (as I've been doing: this series makes one so curious about items mentioned that I come out of a book like this with a long list of other books I'd like to read, other topics I'd like to study).
Ah! Finally finished the last book of Durant's "History of Civilization" series. A veritable marathon of reading well researched, well thought out, and well written history. He (and in the later volumes, his wife also) do a wonderful job of taking all the different strands of the history they are writing about and tying them together within an understandable context. I feel like this was a major achievement, kind of like completing a master's level class. Very well worth the hundreds of hours I spent on finishing it, and now I can get back into current affairs.
In no particular order, one is encouraged to explore more deeply the biographies of Rousseau, Grimm, Frederick the Great, Catherine II, Maria Theresa of Austria, Joseph II, d'Alembert, Louis XV, Louis XVI, Marie Antoinette, Pompadour, Quesnay, Turgot, Necker, Morelly, Mme. d'Epinay, Vivaldi, Vico, the Marquis de Pombal, Charles III, Goya, Goethe, Casanova, Winkelmann, Viotti, Boccherini, Alfieri, Gluck, Piccini, Haydn, Mozart, Prince Radziwill, Ignacy Krasicki, Christian van Wolff, Lessing, Klopstock, Rudolph Raspe, Kant, Wieland, Herder, Schiller, Moses Mendelssohn, Boswell, Johnson, Holberg, Gustavus III, Burke, Pitt (both of them),North, Fox, Wilkes, Sheridan, Clive, Hastings, Garrick, Adam Smith, Gibbon, Hawkins, Chippendale, Wedgewood, Reynolds, Gainsborough, Macpherson, Burns, Sterne, Burney, Walpole, Chatterton, Cowper, Goldsmith, Franklin, Washington, Lafayette, Beaumarchais, de Sade, Condorcet, Houdon, Bernadin, Retif, Boissel and Mme. de la Motte-Valois.Books to read: Rousseau's Julie, Goethe's Werther, Schiller's Robbers, Kant's Critique, Raspe's Baron Munchausen, Herder's History, Holberg's Niels Kilm, Sheridan's Rivals, Gibbon's Decline and Fall, Macpherson's Ossian, Burney's Evelina, Sterne's Tristram Shandy (reread), Fielding's Tom Jones (finish).
Good book, but more so in its individual parts than in the overall impression it makes.
This is the 10th of the 11-book grand oeuvre of Will and Ariel Durant, The Story of Civilization, a monumental accomplishment forty years in the making, that continually amazes by its comprehensive scope and depth of detail.It is the view of the authors that "history is philosophy teaching by example," as Thucydides reportedly said, and that all aspects of the described cultures must be included in a putatively thorough historical work...
It seems that the conflicts drown out all else in some historical works, such as Edward Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.I started this 11 volume set with v.5 through v.11, before going back to v.1 through v.4.
Will and Ariel Durant give us here both the end of an era, a king, an old feudal world and the end of their over 40 year journey of writing synthetic history (though they would live past their predictions and live to write one more volume).
Volume X won the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction in 1968, and it is tough to decide whether it was the writing and dedication of its authors, or the age itself, bursting its seems with genius (Goethe, Mozart, Kant, Rousseau, Voltaire, Franklin), villainy and roguishness (England in India, Cagliostro,) wars over words (Voltaire) and words about wars (Frederick the Great).
Easy to read as it was conceived for the general reader.
I must confess that I have the entire "Civilization" series in my library.I have always used the 11 volumes as reference books reading sections prompted by other reading.
But after reading Rousseau's "Confessions" I felt that I wanted more period depth and determined to read the entire book.I started to resist the author's continued interpretation of the accomplishments of the ages major arts figures.
In the future I will select a more narrow coverage of specific elements during this period in history and avoid such generalities.
I think I liked this one more because it covered people who I read and knew before but I didn't know their history.
For example Edward Gibbon's the author of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire had a medical problem where his testes would collect four liters of water in them!
This with wearing tight britches in which Gibbon's thought flattered him!
The ending was quite good, he and his wife thought they were finishing their work at this volume but they went on to do one more.
These are a real champion of history.
But the age of chivalry is gone; that of sophisters, economists, and calculators has succeeded, and the glory of Europe is extinguished forever."Edmund Burke, on the execution of Marie-AntoinetteIn the tenth volume of Will Durant's  Story of Civilization, we now approach the latter half of the 18th century.
The Seven Years War would set the stage for the American War of Independence, removing as it did America's great opponent on the continent, and pressuring the British to make the colonies pay for themselves via taxation.Although the Enlightenment has already provoked its reaction in the form of the Romantic movement in the arts, the 'age of reason' itself is not yet spent: it is only now beginning to enter some subjects, like economics.
I find this book fascinating, but it is sooooooooo huge, it daunts me, and I have put it to the side because I own it(I found it on the side of the street, and now it is MINE!) Right now, I can borrow two books, at at time from the big, big bookstore that I work for, so I am saving Rousseau for a later time.
Another excellent book by Will Durant. Although his The Age of Voltaire (previous) is so far my favorite in the series and the one I would be most eager to recommend (economic bubbles, enlightenment, etc), this book is certainly good too. Another who's who and how many of the historic figures lived along with the modernity of moving royalty to the sole position of figureheads.
A must read if you are going to spend any significant time in France. For the effort, your understanding of what you will see and hear will be ‘enlightened.’Not an easy read, but well worth the effort if want to have a complete sense of history and understanding when you go. I suggest you begin 3 to 4 months prior to departure.
This amazing series of books needs no explanation or review. They are extraordinary--comprehensive, readable and even humorous. I have just read the last sections of this book, which deal with the early part of the French revolution, just to be informed on the facts because I am presently reading a novel on that event.
This is a good survey of that time period and the artistic, cultural and political faultlines that led to the Revolution. The Durants' style is a bit breezy for my taste - they are writing about the foundations of the Enlightenment with the tone I'd use for a story about my car - but for me this was a good primer.
Keeko I loved reading this book. Roger Ebert said if he could have lived in any other time, he would have picked the 18th century, and now, thanks to the Durants, I understand that. This one won a Pulitzer, and it is well-deserved.
Like many of the volumes of the Durants' Story of Civilization, this one is strongest on political philosophies and ideologies--reflective of Will Durant's strong background in philosophy, of which he was an accomplished popularist.
The Story of Civilization, Book 10
Volume ten of the eleven volume 'Story of Civilisation' by Will and Ariel Durant.
France, England and Germany from 1756, and the rest of Europe from 1715 to 1789. 1091 pages. A staggering work. Donated to the library 2010 March.
nonfiction,history,The Story of Civilization,Enlightenment
Too Much Information. Should have been several books
Is Durant a historian, philosopher or an artist?
In this volume we sit in the parlers of Paris or some remote place (for the banished) - eat, drink, and debate with the chic philosophes of the day (and of course scorn them with Rousseau); listen to music and maybe compose some with the enlightened despots from St. Petersburg to Lisbon (if you get lucky in Austria or Italy you can catch up on some Mozart and Vivaldi), we watch operas, look at paintings, debate on which side to stand on the issues of Spanish Succession & Maria Theresa.
Many stops of course.
A must read for anyone interested in the 18th century. History, philosophy, writers, social conditions, it's all here. In our modern era of ignorance and twisted "culture" the Durant books are a perfect tonic.
A big volume and perhaps at times too much stuff - I still remain unsure why it was separate to the previous Voltaire volume. However this second to last volume of a magnificent history deals with a vital and necessary component of modern history
another great part of this masterpiece
