https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23878688-the-5-love-languages
this book is a tool through which the author, gary chapman, can play out his jesus-complex disguised as a relationship self-help book.
there are references from the bible throughout almost every chapter and gary likes to include generous praise from his clients who call him a "miracle worker." it's damn-near pretty close to being called god.the book has all the hallmarks of a bestseller: easy to read (i read it in one day); hopeless circumstances that seem beyond repair; and an uplifiting ending.
there's this little section where gary talks about the gender differences in sexual desire.
women, it's about the way people receive love.The basis is there are 5 Love Languages (obviously).
The 5 Love Languages are:Words of AffirmationQuality TimeReceiving GiftsActs of ServicePhysical TouchI'm sure everyone responds to all of these in some way, but we all have a primary language.
By reading the book, I knew what mine was, but the survey pinpointed it to a T and helped me rank mine by importance, even better than I think I could have done on my own.
It helps you understand how to show your love for someone else in a way that they'll best receive it.
This book is based on the premise that everyone has a "love language".
Things others say or do that make one feel "loved",they are follows:-words of affirmation.-recieving gifts.-acts of service.-physical touch.-quality time.Personally I want you to tell me how great I am (words of affirmation) while walking in the house with a collection of poetry for me (receiving gifts), make a beeline for the trash that needs to be taken out (acts of service), then come back in and read quietly next to me (quality time) before I ride you like the wild stallion that you are (physical touch) so where does that leave me?
Which love language am I?
I totally get the "love languages" thing.
Like, his advice for someone whose spouse (not partner, not lifemate, and - in this instance, always the wife) prefers "Acts of Service" as a love language (because wives love when their husband does the laundry for them, basically) is just that -- do the laundry without being asked.
And if the husband were to argue "I don't have time, I work a lot so that I can provide for my family" blah blah blah, he just says "WELL MAKE TIME." Super helpful, guy.Not to mention the book is sexist and heteronormative.
Count ‘em, Five!What was that number again?So, that number is five, right?Stop dragging this out in order to post “five” gifs.According to Dr. Chapman, the five languages are:Now, I’m done.1)	Giving gifts – If the last time you gave your wife flowers was when Nirvana was a thing, then this one isn’t you.2)	Words of affirmation – These don’t include: “You’re an idiot/moron/devil/shrew/succubus etc.”3)	Acts of Service or doing stuff for your loved one or something – Helping my wife bury the hoochies that chase after our son qualifies here.4)	Quality time – It’s not me, me, me.
My mother in law gave me this book and I hesitated reading it because it sounds so cheesy (and just take a look at the cover--how dorky!) But I was stuck on vacation with nothing else to read so I reluctantly gave it a try.
In a nutshell, this book has changed my life.
Okay, maybe "changed my life" is a bit strong, but it has certainly enhanced my marriage like nothing else I've ever read or done.The advice this author gives is so profound and universal, it can be applied successfully to any deep relationship you have (children, parents, close friends).
Chapman used many real-life examples from his own marriage, and of couples that he had counselled across the years, to illustrate the concepts in his book and how they can be applied to address different marriage/ relationship issues and circumstances.
These are case studies help us to identify similarities and lessons for our own relationships.In the book, he also offers 2 pages of additional ideas and suggestions for each of the 5 love languages, as well as separate love language profile surveys for husbands and wives (to identify your primary love language).
This plan basically suggested, among other things, that the wife initiate sex with her husband (as his love language was physical touch) even though this idea did not appeal to the wife.
Call me cynical, but I picture an abused spouse (view spoiler)[emotional or physical, it makes no difference to me (hide spoiler)] reading this and thinking that I just need to have sex with my husband and maybe things will work out.
Overall, I think the idea of love languages seems reasonable, but I was sorely disappointed in the examples and approaches suggested by the author.

من أروع و أهم الكتب التي قرأتها .كتاب سهل وواضحة أفكاره جدًا ، ويتضمن الكثير من الأمثلة و التجارب الحقيقية ، والتي تقرب الأفكار بطريقة ممتازة .هو كتاب مهم لكل شخص ، لأنه لا يقتصر على الحب بين الأزواج ، بل يمكن تطبيقه على الحب الإنساني بكل أنواعه و أشكاله .أنصح الجميع بقراءته ، حتى لو لم يكونوا واقعين في الحب أو متزوجين .
هذاالكتاب قام بالاجابة على كثير من الألغاز التي قد حيرتني في ما مضى..لماذا يشعر شخص ما في عائلة ما أ
A quick and valuable read to help you better understand how you and your partner best like to express and receive love. Great for helping you see what you truly value in a partner and what your partner truly values in you.
4.5 starsI absolutely recommend this book to EVERYONE.
The ideas and concepts in this book will benefit any relationship.
The idea of loving others the way they need to be loved might feel counterintuitive, but it something so essential to growing as a person and understanding what love really is.I had always known about this book and the love languages, but this was the first time I actually read it.
Of course, as with any self-help type of book, there were a few cheesy moments, which is why I docked it half a star, but overall it was a fantastic read!
blahblahblahblahDoing what your spouse asks of you makes them love you more. There. I just saved you $14.

من اهم الكتب التي تناولت موضوع الحب بشكل عقلاني وباسلوب ممتع بنفس الوقتانصح الجميع بقرائته (لو كان بإمكاني لسلمت نسخة من هذا الكتاب لكل زوج و زوجة في هذه البلاد واقول له لقد كتبت هذا الكتاب من اجلك, وامل ان تغير حياتك , واذا استفدت منه اعطه لشخص اخر وحيث انني لا استنطيع فعل هذا فسأكون سعيداً اذا اعطيت هذه نسخة من هذا الكتاب لعائلتك , ولاخوانك و أخواتك , وكذلك لابنائك المتزوجين , ولموظفيك, ولرفقائك في النادي , ومن يدري ربما يمكننا أن نحقق أحلامنا )
This year I'm doing a Reading Challenge; so I have 26 books with specific subjects that I need to read. BOOK21: A book that will improve a specific area of your life I think every married couple should read this at least once.Do the quiz and know what Love Language your partner speaks.For the advice given in this book I give Chapman a five star rating.The writing on the other hand was not that good. He tends to "speak" down to the reader, making you think - I am not that stupid. Also he repeats
This year I'm doing a Reading Challenge; so I have 26 books with specific subjects that I need to read.
I think every married couple should read this at least once.Do the quiz and know what Love Language your partner speaks.For the advice given in this book I give Chapman a five star rating.The writing on the other hand was not that good.
He tends to "speak" down to the reader, making you think - I am not that stupid.
Also he repeats himself A LOT!Reading this I think is the easy part: to practice what Chapman suggest is the difficult part.
My dad actually recommended this book to me and I finally decided to check it out from the library. Although I think my husband and I have a good relationship - it was amazing how much I learned from this book! And how I realized that by understand how we communicate differently - it could strengthen our relationship. I would recommend this book to just about anyone! A lot of it seems common sense but it's a good reminder and an eye-opener to read it.
إن كنت تتحدث الصينية ولكن شريك حياتك لا يجيد هذه اللغة بل لغته الأم هي العربية هل ستتمكن من التواصل معه وايصال مشاعرك العاطفية اتجاهه ؟ بالتأكيد لا سيواجه كل الطرفين العديد من الصعوبات إلى أن يتقن كل شخص لغة الآخر ثم يحدث التواصل بسهولة ويسر.
بإختصار هذا ما يتطرق له الكتاب ، فقد ناقش هذه اللغات الخمس كل على حدى بإيجاز وتبسيط مع ذكر قصص واقعية عالجها للعديد من الأزواج بوظيفتة كإستشاري للعلاقات الزوجية، كما سيشرح السبب الرئيسي في تغير شريك الحياة بعد الزواج ويوضح مرحلة الوقوع في الحب والحب والإختلاف بينهما.
كنتُ دائمًا أسألُ زوجى:-ما الذى تعيبه علىّ؟-أو ما الذى إذا فعلته تشعر بحبي لك؟وكان يجيبنى لا أنكر ذلك، ولكنى كنتُ أرى أن ما يقوله ليس أساسيًا وأن هناك الأكثر أهمية للتعبير عن الحب بغير هذه الصورةلذلك فكنتُ غالبًا لا أتغير ولا حتى أمل من السؤال لأننى كنت أريد الإجابة التى أريدها أنا...حتى قرأتُ هذا الكتابلا أكذب أبدًا حين أقول أن هذا الكتاب سيغير حياتى جذريًافهمتُ إجابات زوجى، وعرفت لغة الحب خاصته وخاصتى، وأدركتُ تباين الرغباتولا أستطيع أن أصف مدى سعادتى وفرحتى الآن،هذا الكتاب سأحرص بشدة على الحصول على نسخة ورقية منهفهو الكنز المهدى من السماء لى.
It's written by a marriage counselor and directed towards couples, but it can be applied to all relationships, both romantic and platonic.
The author's theory is that there are five major ways to express love (the five love languages).
It's an interesting theory but WAY oversimplified, and I was extremely bothered by one of the real life stories where the author encourages a wife to stay with an abusive husband and rescue their marriage by learning his love language.
The book is written from a religious perspective, and I struggled a lot with that as well.
اكره التنمية البشرية ومع ذلك حين بدأت قراءة كتب باللغة الانجليزية كان صعب بالنسبة لي ان اقرأها في لغ
This book looks cheesy as fuck from the outside, but it's full of practical, down-to-earth wisdom. If you are married (or thinking about getting married), divorced (or thinking about getting divorced), read this book.
He says that the infatuation that people experience in the beginning of the relationship is not real love.
The author explains each love language along with the concept that most people are chiefly responsive to just one.
Despite the author's Christian underpinnings, as a non-Christian, to me this did not detract from the relevance of the author's ideas.In fact, these "love languages" are not confined only to the marriage relationship, but may also serve to strengthen bonds with children - or perhaps any other person you need to communicate your love and support for.
Five love languages, not everyone speaks the same love language....ok, well as long as you know what they are, shouldn't have to read the book, right?
I'm not just talking married couples, I'm talking parents, children, friends...anyone in any relationship should know this stuff.
Chapman explains what each love language entails, and gives examples of some of the "dialects" in each language (for example, quality time may mean quality conversation.) And then he tells you very specifically what you can do to learn to "speak" each love language.
Reasons I read this book:- It was free;and on a slightly more embarrassing note- I read blogs about The Bachelor and The Bachelorette and every season someone very seriously mentions their "love language", and not even in a self-deprecatingly British way, which is really the only way to pull off saying, "my love language is words of affirmation".
(I'm actually not really, but apologising just seemed like the polite thing to do here.)The author implores you throughout the book to discover the love language of your significant other and then everything will be fine if you focus on meeting that one need.
الكتاب جديد في طرحه وموضوعه عن الحب .. رغم بداهة إن طريقة التعبير عن الحب تختلف من شخص لشخص إلا إن الكتاب وضعها في إطارها الصحيح وجعلها في سياق علمي من خلال المقدمة عن (الوقوع في الحب) وفي سياق عملي عن طيق الخاتمة التي اشار فيها إلى نقاط جديرة بالإعتبار، خصوصاً تلك النقطة عن التي يكون فيها الحب قد مات فعلاً الكتاب رائع فعلاً، وأنصح به للجميع وليس فقط المتزوجين، هو يجعلك تفهم لغات الحب إلى كل الناس ولأني لم أجد مأ أضيفه للكتاب أوأعلق عليه فيه فإني أعطي الكتاب خمس نجوم
In turn, s/he may not feel loved if we are "speaking a different language." Thus, we could be struggling for years and still be completely misreading each other.To my surprise, my husband was actually willing to take the quiz at the end of the book with me, and we have had a FABULOUS few days so far.
On the men's version of the quiz there is a question about "loving to have sex with my wife", but on the women's version, the wording is changed to "I love cuddling with my husband".BAH HUMBUG to that!
In the words of John Lennon, "All you need is love." Love is the most important thing, and yet, many people have a truly hard time feeling loved and successfully expressing love to those who matter most to them.
Dr. Chapman thinks it is because people speak different love languages.
Within these broad fields there are different "dialects" but overall there are five love languages that people value: Words of Affirmation, Quality Time, Receiving Gifts, Acts of Service, and Physical Touch.
But after marriage (or even after about two years of courting--the euphoria stage rarely lasts a few months longer than two years), expressing love continually becomes less natural.
Everyone has "the" relationship book.
This book will NOT automatically solve all relationship problems.
People have to want to work on things; have to want to communicate needs and expectations.
Having said that, I have not seen a better way to tie in to your significant other's point of view, then trying to understand how THEY need to have love expressed.
But even more importantly, maybe, is looking at ourselves and seeing how we automatically expect others to "get" love the way that we need to 'get' it.
