https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36316.The_Doom_That_Came_to_Sarnath_and_Other_Stories
3.5 Stars    "Wise men have interpreted dreams, and the gods have laughed."   Are you ready to embark upon a journey across Lovecraft's lands of fabled dreamworld?Here is a map!Anyone who has read enough Lovecraftian horrors would know that most of his stories could be classified under two prominent and interconnected themes /shared universe : The Cthulhu Mythos,  which revolves around the horrors of Great Old Ones & Dream Cycle,  where the central theme is an alternative dimension that can
Are you ready to embark upon a journey across Lovecraft's lands of fabled dreamworld?Here is a map!Anyone who has read enough Lovecraftian horrors would know that most of his stories could be classified under two prominent and interconnected themes /shared universe :
where the central theme is an alternative dimension that can be entered via dreams.Most of short stories in this collection comes under "Dream Cycle".
Beautiful, isn't it?Then there are the dark legends and fables from the land of dreams itself.
The "Excellent" makes this worth checking out!-------------------------------AfterthoughtI found an exceptional graphic adaptation of three stories from this collection in this artist's website!
I was not able to immediately procure more of her writing, and fell back on Lovecraft, of whom I had only read The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath, and liked it, but I was suffering under the misapprehension that it was "more fantasy" and "less horror" than his other works.
Just as I reflected after going to the horror section looking for Threshold, the first time I'd been there since eighth grade rendered me too mature to appreciate Flowers in the Attic, (the sequel to it, Low Red Moon, my first Kiernan read, was curiously put in fantasy, presumably to draw in a different readership, which worked in my case), "If this is horror, give me more of it".
Carter makes much of Lovecraft’s influences, and especially his love for the poet known as Lord Dunsany, who is seen as the inspiration for much of the Lovecraft dream-cycle.The first three stories are from the early “Dunsanian” period, and they all feel like experiments, not entirely like complete works.
“The Doom that Came to Sarnath” is, in some respects, the most Lovecraftian of the stories, dealing as it does with pre-human beings and their returning after a long period of dormancy, but it doesn’t seem interesting enough to have named the volume after it.In the next section are three early tales that Carter finds “uninspired,” although I’d disagree in at least two cases.
In some way he tapped an emotional vein of gothic nostalgia that has always been a part of my world view, giving it voice.
While his writing is full of flaws (racism, no characterization whatsoever, hyperbolic adjectives ad infinitum, and little or no actual conflict) there's one thing Lovecraft can do: atmosphere--not showing or telling you anything, but making you feel his own existential dread and longing for the past.
In my own writing, I've tried to do the same, balancing the gothic with a more hopeful recognition of the limits of human knowledge and the potential we have to be more than what was.
This was a great sampling of Lovecrafts earlier work. It was especially interesting to someone already familiar with his more popular works to see where it all started. Most of the stories in this collection differs a lot from his more famous writings. Not all of the stories were great, but almost all were at least good.
I'll be remedying that in the very near future."The Doom that Came to Sarnath" collects the excellent titular story, a few other exquisite horror tales ("The Cats of Ulthar," "From Beyond"), and other writings from Lovecraft's early period.
The stories are broken up by helpful interludes by Lovecraft historian Lin Carter, which tell about the circumstances which bore the stories and about what style they fit in, whether what Carter describes as his "Dunsanian-influenced" works, his dream tales, or his more traditional horror stories.This book also includes two of his more unusual stories, both co-written, neither entirely successful.
This collection shows Lovecraft's early writing: his dream-like stories of ancient fantasy civilizations his more classical ghost stories, the ruin of a couple over-curious explorers.
So I'd recommend the collection in "The Doom that Came to Sarnath" to a Lovecraft fan wanting to learn more about his development.
The editor prefaces most of the stories with background about their writing and their place in Lovecraft's biography and evolving style.That said, this collection does contain "Nyarlathotep," a short prose-poem whose title character is alluded to occasionally in the Mythos.
"The Tomb" is a classic ghost story done well.
"From Beyond" and "Beyond the Walls of Sleep" begin Lovecraft's exploration of parallel universes.
People read that he influenced the modern greats, everyone form authors like Stephen King and Clive Barker, to movie makers like John Carpenter and Wes Craven, and then dive into his books expecting the same fare.
His mind-bending, first person surrealistic approach to a creeping, nameless horror stunned and fascinated huge segments of early century America.
The America that read, that is, which wasn't nearly what it is today.
They broke conventions and rearranged the way a future breed of horror authors would look at the world.
Even today, I find them stunningly original, and well worth the read.
I found this collection particularly great. Lovecraft's sleeping/dreaming-centered stories are my favorites. They all have such a fantastic air of anonymous terror.
His verbosity always seemed to daunt me, and thus I never could sit down and really enjoy them.Now in the Social Media age, I kept reading these blogs from varying people.
Some were ok, some we're downright childish and inane, but they all centered around the readers ideas behind what they were reading.
I would have a reason to really sit down and dive into Lovecraft, and in the process of blogging about it, I would get a much deeper appreciation and understanding of his works.What I came to find was that he is much more literary than I first anticipated.
Mimo, iż uważam się niejako za fana jego stylu i tego co pisze, nie mogłem przebrnąć przez opowiadanie "Ku nieznanemu Kadath śniąca się wędrówka".
Mimo, iż rozłożyłem sobie te opowiadania w czasie bo jak wiadomo "za dużo HPL szkodzi dawkowane naraz" przysypiałem na co drugim z nich.
Wszystkie opowiadania dziejące się niejako w świecie "krainy magyji" były dla mnie miałkie i nudne, może poza tytułowym.
Jeśli klimat "Widma nad Innsmouth" jest Ci najbliższy zapewne te opowiadania wymienione przeze mnie będziesz czytał z rozrzewnieniem.
Jeśli wolisz klimat fantastyczny i w ogóle wątki zgoła odmienne w jego stylu od horroru- to jest coś bardziej dla Ciebie.
Oniryczna wędrówka po dziwnych krainach.Książka stworzona dla osób, które dużo śnią i ludzi, którzy cenią sobie przede wszystkim klimat i atmosferę. 🌙Lovecraft mistrzowsko potrafi wykrystalizować czynniki, które wzbudzają niepokój i - jak sam to określa - poczucie kosmicznej grozy. Czytającemu nie towarzyszy bowiem strach, ale właśnie groza, poczucie beznadziejności i małości w porównaniu do przytłaczającego bezmiaru kosmosu, zamieszkanego przez niestworzone kreatury i nienazwane potworności. PS. Na końcu książki znajduje się esej Lovecrafta o historii powieści grozy w literaturze. Warto się zapoznać.
Z przykrością stwierdzam, że niestety zawiodłem się na tej książce. Może 1/3 opowiadań przypadła mi do gustu - te pisane w narracji pierwszoosobowej. Polecić mogę: "Zimno", "Coś na progu", czy "Zgroza w Red Hook".Część z opowiadań po prostu mnie znudziła/zmęczyła, a nie dlatego sięgam po książki ;)
Early fantasy work in the mode of Lord Dunsany, a couple of collaborations, a poem and a few pre-Cthulhu stories. Overall, the weakest of the HPL collections I've read. The notes by editor Lin Carter do help put it all into context.
As with a lot of Lovecraft, I enjoy it for the concepts, but the prose itself is rough.
Mi-a plăcut foarte mult. Lovecraft are un vocabular foarte dezvoltat și felul său de a descrie este unic.
Excellent bookThe Doom that Came to Sarnath is a good story. The essay about writing horror/weird tales is a classic. Nothing comes close until Danse Macabre is written.
A terrific compilation of Lovecraft's earlier works.
The tale of the ruin of a marvelous ancient city. Much attention is given to the description of Sarnath so it is quite entertaining and pleasant to imagine.
The collection that got me into Lovecraft. Nothing beats those old Michael Whelan covers!
H.P. Lovecraft - La maldición que cayó sobre Sarnath (1920)
The answer to any question about Lovecraft: "Because he hated Jews and foreigners".
Anticolonialist in theory and a bit of modern historian jibing his past counterparts who died in their causes? In general, not a fan.
Lovecraft loved cats and, despite it's serious, gruesome nature, this story has a playfulness to it.There are a few stories in which Lovecraft collaborated with other authors, most notably "Imprisoned With The Pharaohs." More ghost writing than collaboration, this is a tale written by Lovecraft in 1924 and based upon an outline supplied by Harry Houdini.
Apparently, Houdini liked it so much he commissioned Lovecraft for other ghost writing projects before his death two years later.I had read all these stories previously but it was a treat to read them again.
I put this collection of mostly earlier works by Lovecraft into the fantasy shelf because so many either take place in Lovecraft's fantasy world (The Other Gods, Doom that came to Sarnath, Cats of Ulthar, Quest of Iranon) or have a predominant element of fantasy but with a note of horror (Beyond the Wall of Sleep, Hypnos, Crawling Chaos, Polaris).
There's also a straight up science fiction story (Walls of Eryx) and a straight up horror story that resembles Poe (The Tomb), so all in all, this book has a good deal of variety.
I definitely recommend reading this before you tackle Lovecraft's best of.
I mean, I get it, he's super deep down the rabbit hole so he assumes you have whatever of Dunsany or Lovecraft is currently in print in 1970-whatever, and you only want obscura.
I like those handsome hardcovers with the built in bookmark ribbons that have canonical stuff for each author.Some of these stories are great, some of them are terrible, and some are repeats from the other book I just read.
I don't really have anything intelligible to say (I waited too long to write this) but I want to read more of it, the central stuff and not these bones with just a bit of meat.
H.P lovecraft writes great horror stories and this is no exception he's probably one of the great horror story writers along with the likes of Poe. This book is made up of creative writing and conjours up distorted images in your head from the suspense that builds up to the climax toward the end.
H.P Lovecraft's books tend to focus on the Horror/Fantasy genre and is the kind of horror material that involves creatures of a new breed and not so much a typical thriller story for example.
W skład antologii "Przyszła na Sarnath zagłada" wchodzą dwadzieścia trzy opowiadania. Obok historii ze sporą dawką grozy pojawiają się opowieści, gdzie sen miesza się z koszmarem, a bohaterowie wędrują przez Krainy Snów i zwiedzają tajemnicze i niebezpieczne miasta. Bez względu na charakter, każde opowiadanie zostało napisane pięknym, literackim językiem, którego próżno szukać we współczesnej prozie. Historiami, jakie wyszły spod pióra Lovecrafta po prostu się delektuje, czyta się powoli i podziwia.Całość na: http://wiedzma-czyta.blogspot.com/201...
If you are searching to expand your knowledge about the Cthulhu Mythos, this short tale is a good pick. If you, instead, are searching for the good old Lovecraft horror story, then I advice you to choose another one.This story says a few words about Sarnath, a fallen city from millennia ago. How they fought the lizard-god adoring people, and how DOOM came to them years after. It is a good short and fast text, but do not expect horror. Just the feeling that something more lies in our world besides ourselves, as expected from H. P. Lovecraft.
Not Lovecraft's best, which is not to say it isn't worthwhile.
This collection contains a lot of his earlier stuff that just doesn't have the same impact as his more famous, namely the Cthulhu mythos.
Still, for die-hards it's entertaining; I found The Tomb, Beyond the Wall of Sleep, and In the Walls of Eryx as enjoyable as any of Lovecraft's more noteable works.
Also there's something inarticuably delightful in reading a poem from a man normally as asexual as his monsters that contains the limric: "So Betty my miss, Come give me kiss; In hell there's no innkeeper's daughter like this!"
