https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310612.A_Confederacy_of_Dunces
One fine morning Fortuna spun my wheel of luck and put me on a flight to NYC.
The person who was sitting next to me, refusing to indulge in modern day perversities like movies, pulled out his book and sat down reading.
More embarrassment.That was when I noticed that the book he had been reading was A Confederacy of Dunces.
Having read it only a week earlier, I could understand that he wasn't a nutcase.(To those who haven't read this book yet):-WARNING: 'A Confederacy of Dunces' is extremely hilarious and is known to have caused uncontrollable laughter in several cases.
That this book is so popular with people in my age bracket and not so popular with people older or younger really makes me wonder if it is part of the problem or a reflection of the boring, whiny apathy of my generation.
But if this book has any redeemable aspects at all, it is that it highlights just how lazy and worthless my generation is.
It's reflected in the reverence people my age give this book, a book whose central lesson seems to be "whining is funny, and doing things is bad".
Read for the group On the Southern Literary TrailBounceBOUnceBOUNCEOh man ughh ooohhhhh.BOUNCE!BOUNCE!!ahhhhhhhhhhhhhOh thank goodness my pyloric valve finally opened.
"You learned everything, Ignatius, except how to be a human being."The first time I read this book I absolutely loved it.
The second time the joy was similar, but every reading experience of a book is different.
If you decide to spend an afternoon with Ignatius you will laugh even if you don't want to, and as you turn the final pages you will wish that Toole had written just one more chapter or two.
There are a lot of ways to judge people, but I find that opinion of this book is one of the most accurate and efficient.
With very few exceptions, I've found that how much I like someone is strongly correlated with how much they enjoy the book.
To me, this book is like the little yellow canary that you send down a mine shaft to know whether to run the other way or not.
If you've ever ridden the DC metro at 7:30am you know that the cars are full of serious, silent business people.
I hated this book.
My first instinct was correct!The only thing that might have saved this for me was if the main character Ignatius faced a long, slow, painful death.
Has there ever been a more annoying, obnoxious character in literature?
I had heard that this was supposed to be an hilarious book; I don't think I laughed once.
Then it won the Pulitzer.) Truly, in the words of the great Dorothy Parker, this is not a book to be tossed aside lightly.
It should be thrown with great force.
I thought the book was ok.
One of my old boyfriends recommended it to me, and while I was reading it I told him what an asshole I thought Ignatius J.
To be honest, my eyes kind of glazed over and I don't remember the rest of his rant, but I finished the book anyway.
One time I saw this shitty band (I don't remember their name) open for the White Stripes, and they kept saying, "You guys don't get it.
Some of you get it, but the rest of you just don't get it." NO, you guys just SUCK!]
Authors who commit suicide find their Lovelybones-eye view from the afterlife brings them no comfort:David Foster Wallace : Oh my God - look at that dreadful biography of me...
but there isn't....B S Johnson : Put a sock in it - your situation is, admittedly, redolent of a sublime irony, but the afterlife of a real artist - me - not you, me - a real avant-gardist, a true believer - is wretched - look - hardly any of my God damned books are in print any more.
If there was only a way to commit suicide again up here again...
This was my second read of this unbelievable masterpiece from John Kennedy Toole who committed suicide 21 years before this book was rediscovered and published by his mother (he was thus the only person to receive a posthumous Pulitzer in 1981).
Ignatius P Reilly is so incredibly unforgettable.
But what really clinches the book is Ignatius and his poor long-suffering, overbearing, manipulative, compulsively Catholic mother and his insane ex-girlfriend.
Somewhere between Portnoy's Complaint and Don Quixote, this is a true modern masterpiece and well-worth the read.Also, a good read now with Drumpf the tiny-handed Dunce in the White House.
With a mustache and a hat with earmuffs, the resemblance with IP Reilly would be striking!
Through 400 pages – which is relatively long for a book in which nothing happens – we follow Ignatius through various minor misadventures: Ignatius goes to a bar; Ignatius gets a job at Levy Pants and attempts to unionize the factory; Ignatius sells hotdogs; Ignatius – in what passes for a large set piece – attempts to use a gay soiree as a political rally.
Based on the epigram by Jonathan Swift, it is clear that Toole’s title refers to Ignatius’s worldview: that his inflated sense of intelligence, his delusions of grandeur, and his unrelenting condescension has created a paradigm in which he believes that every other person in this world is an idiot.
The pro-Dunces members of my book club pointed out that I have a tendency towards “likeable” characters.
Dear Reader,Fortuna evidently was smiling upon my being when I endeavored to undertake the consumption of this philosophical masterpiece.
Oh, what genius has the world lost with the tragic demise of John Kennedy Toole?Through his quixotic anti-hero, Ignatius J.
It is for you, dear reader, to decide.I found the descriptions of New Orleans particularly diverting.
As Ignatius said, "This subject deserves the attention of a profound thinker who has a certain perspective on the world's cultural development."(If any perceptive film producers are interested in buying the movie rights to this Review, I might here make a note about the filming of this critique.
The eagerness with which I grabbed said copy--and the disappointment I felt in its previous owner for the lack of annotation I found in its pages--suggests that I liked this book far more than I hated its main character.
But every paper-and-ink copy I found had a cover that I absolutely hated (and now that I know the character, I'm annoyed that Ignatius looks more like a happy-go-lucky buffoon on many of the cover images when he is, in fact, a detestable, pretentious little wanker who masks his inability to relate to other people with an abrasive, overeducated front).
A Confederacy of Dunces, John Kennedy Toole A Confederacy of Dunces is a picaresque novel by American novelist John Kennedy Toole which reached publication in 1980, eleven years after Toole's suicide.
او از جامعه مصرف‌ گرای آمریکایی بیزار است، و جهان امروز را سیرکی سیار میبیند.

Reilly is to literature as Homer Simpson is to our later culture, a grotesque more than a picaresque, a satirical slap in the face of who we are, a fool’s loving but damning foil to the king.
Thirty years later, and the grotesque center stage with spotlights on Ignatius have become as common as reality TV shows, the characters no longer charicatures because of familiarity.
Thirty years later, Ignatius is no longer a caricature but a portrait.But to its credit, Dunces has some redemption, some easy to find, other examples more subtle.
To hear some people describe it (even people I usually correlate well with), this book is a laugh-scream riot.
He’s decidedly offbeat, which is all well and good, but I just didn’t think he was funny.
Maybe guys like George Costanza have now gotten me used to whiny, self-centered anti-strivers as sources of humor.I sometimes wonder why certain works are so polarizing.
In this case I think lots of people saw a big misanthropic id running roughshod and had to laugh.
(Do I sound like a terrible curmudgeon right now?
Must just have been this brand where I didn’t.)
A Confederacy of Dunces: John Kennedy Toole's Novel of What it Means to Miss New Orleans A Confederacy of Dunces was chosen as the first group read of On the Southern Literary Trail in March, 2012. Now, a few months after "The Trail's" FIFTH Anniversary, the readers have chosen this novel as one of it's group reads for July, 2017. Come join us!  "Miniver cursed the commonplace And eyed a khaki suit with loathing;He missed the mediæval grace Of iron clothing.Miniver scorned the gold he sought, Bu
A Confederacy of Dunces: John Kennedy Toole's Novel of What it Means to Miss New Orleans
WHOA!"--Burma Jones, former porter and janitor, The Night of Joy Bar, Bourbon Street, New Orleans, LouisianaWhatever happened to Burma Jones and all the other memorable character's ofA Confederacy of Dunces is anybody's guess.
Those readers familiar with New Orleans readily recognize that the city comes to life in Toole's novel.
That's not going to happen in New Orleans.Ignatius is forced into the outside world to get a job to pay off the costs of an automobile accident his mother had after a bit too much to drink in the Night of Joy bar that will figure prominently in the story.
Ugh. Most overrated book ever. What a smug pile of overripe garbage.
Side-Splittingly Funny Literary Novel: Ample Abderian TomfooleryThe Big Easy's Mensa Motley Fool, its Baissière Barbareoh boy oh boy oh boy...When I first picked this up, I deemed it a little too odd.
What followed was not at all grotesque or surreal humor, but instead the funniest literary novel I've ever read.
Reilly as the funniest character in a literary novel.It's hard to describe the novel or Ignatius with sufficient detail to justify/explain the hilarity.
For the contemporary period, you should study some selected comic books."fDenizen: "You're fantastic."Ignatius: "I recommend Batman especially, for he tends to transcend the abysmal society in which he's found himself.
Have I lost my sense of humour?Everyone seems to love this piece of writing, and I was highly motivated when I saw the Jonathan Swift quote in the beginning, giving the novel its name:"When a true genius appears in the world, you may know him by this sign, that the dunces are all in confederacy against him."However, all I could discover in the story were the dunces, engaged in never-ending dull dialogues, showing off their vulgarity and stupidity without an ounce of fun.
This so-called "farce" and "classic" was more frustrating to me than entertaining.
I dislike leaving a book unfinished and the only reason I continued to read it was the hope that my effort would be paid off in the end.
This further cemented my belief that the only reason classics are called so is because some committee agreed and the public thought the committee must be right.
I'm afraid my lingering disillusion with this book prevents my ability to form any more specific of an analysis.
I cannot even remember the name of the one character I halfway liked in the entire book.
When my brain begins to reel from my literary labors, I make an occasional cheese dip.”― John Kennedy Toole, A Confederacy of Dunces A laugh-out-loud picaresque, a story chock-full of satire and unforgettable humorous detail as we follow the adventures of our larger-than-life rascal-hero, Ignatius J.
New Orleans author John Kennedy Toole (1937 - 1969)“So we see that even when Fortuna spins us downward, the wheel sometimes halts for a moment and we find ourselves in a good, small cycle within the larger bad cycle.
What a colossal waste of my life. Nothing happens. Literally. That's what's wrong with this book. It's a freshman-level fiction workshop gone horribly awry. And it won what?
Yet, on the other hand, there exists a greater number of GR friends or familiars who exuberantly loved this book, thought it was fantastic, forged connexions with one, some, or all of the characters and situations, Toole's ironic jiggling of life's antennae and slippery dispensations of a hob-nailed boot—and then I'm left puzzled inside at my own inability to appreciate what just simply worked for so many others.
El éxito fue rotundo.John Kennedy Toole ganaría un Pulitzer póstumo y un reconocimiento a la mejor novela extranjera en Francia y lo tiene más que merecido.Si este autor, que a sus 16 años había publicado su primer novela de características totalmente opuestas, me refiero a “La biblia de neón”, no se suicidaba, probablemente se hubiera convertido en uno de los más grandes escritores norteamericanos del siglo XX.
Es divertida, la historia es original y única, los personajes son memorables y su autor un maestro de la narrativa cuya temprana muerte, como comentaba previamente es para lamentar, puesto que su potencial literario era enorme.Los invito a leer “La conjura de los necios”, ya que pocas veces se toparán con un libro tan único y genial como este.Si no lo hacen, ustedes se lo pierden.
اين همه تبليغ، اسم پيمان خاكسار ، مقدمه مترجم در تعريف و نمجيد از اين كتاب و شايد نام نشر چشمه منو ب
Truly, I've never read anything like it.
This novel has some of the crispest, most well-painted characters I've ever read, and although I wasn't "laughing out loud" as much as the reviewers on the back cover promised, it is definitely funny as hell, and a completely cringe-worthy story.
In this case, the character also weighs 300 pounds, and alternates between selling hotdogs, screaming at his mother, and lying around on stained, mildewy sheets as he writes his manifesto besmirching the modern world.
Wow. The real sadness is the story of the author, who wrote this book and never showed it to a soul before committing suicide when he was 32.
I am definitely glad I read it.
How much do I love A Confederacy of Dunces? This much. I've read the novel at least ten times and this edition (which a friend rightfully noted displays an uglyass cover) became my glove compartment book through a few years of waiting-in-the-carpool-lane-after-school stretches. I re-read the novel late this past May and it still holds up. Genius structure, brilliant dialogue, dark as hell, and funny over and over. Mr. Toole,I don't know what demons haunted you, but when you exhaled this novel yo
How much do I love A Confederacy of Dunces?
I've read the novel at least ten times and this edition (which a friend rightfully noted displays an uglyass cover) became my glove compartment book through a few years of waiting-in-the-carpool-lane-after-school stretches.
I re-read the novel late this past May and it still holds up.
Genius structure, brilliant dialogue, dark as hell, and funny over and over.
Mr. Toole,I don't know what demons haunted you, but when you exhaled this novel you mainlined literary exuberance.
A Confederacy of Dunces keeps my faith in books in ways that few other novels can.
The story of Ignatius and his crusade against the world, making the long term lives of those he touched better off once they survived his initial destruction, was one non-stop laugh for me.What made this book work so well was the lack of perfection.
Though Ignatius was a total prick he was in a world of people just as bad (just better at hiding it) and though they all loathed him, all their lives were better by the end of the book because of him.
While I don’t mind some exposition and non-dialogue text, the fact that the most of this book was told through conversations created vivid voices for all the characters.
“You could tell by the way he talked, though, that he had gone to school a long time.
That was probably what was wrong with him.” John Kennedy Toole had committed suicide over a decade before this book had eventually been published, and thereafter won a posthumous Pulitzer.
This book is one of the rare ones that made me laugh at every turn of a page.
There were so many times I guffawed and then transitioned into a sad smile on reflecting on how the absurdity of the passages hold true in the modern world (especially with the Trump administration in power).
Ignatius J.
I think I have a new favourite character in literature.
It was on my TBR for far too long, god I've been missing out on so much by not reading this novel.
Ugh god I loved it so much that I'm actually finding it hard to write anything coherent because all I can think of is superlatives and hyperbole.
Eh, superlatives and hyperboles never hurt anyone.
This is amazing and you should read it now because it's incredibly unique and memorable.
You'll want to get everything that Ignatius says tattooed onto your face.
One of the best books I've read this year.
