https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43931.The_Woods

But if this man (who was just murdered) was alive for the past twenty years, maybe his sister could still be alive too.Eventually Paul gets together with his ex-girlfriend (Lucy) from the camp (whom he hasn't seen in twenty years) after she contacts him because strange things are occurring in her life that have to do with that long-ago camp incident in which she was also involved.I don't want to give any more of the plot away since it's more fun to read the book to find out what happens.
I also liked Lucy, who never really seemed to get over that long ago camp incident.
Definitely a page turner! Coben always fascinates me with his novels!
This was very good audio book, well-crafted artists that delivered good quality reading with excellent accents, tone and an all-round feel of a quality performance, as after all, these audio books are a performance.
This was a good chilling read.
I did not mind for one minute that the commute was thirty minutes each way!‘Cope’, a successful city prosecutor searches for answers from a night which occurred over twenty years ago, the killings at a summer camp that he feels terribly guilty about, he failed to stand guard at his post, instead he snuck off to make love to his girlfriend.
This guy is good; I’d read him if I was you.
“You don't worry about happiness and fulfilment when you're starving.” 2.5 stars The Woods was quite boring with nothing new to surprise me. Harlan Coben put the old materials in this book again without reconsidering whether the twists were predictable or not. Four children were lost in the woods, twenty years later Paul Copeland wants to revaluate this case again, he thinks that maybe his sister is still alive somewhere. The book started off with the same feeling as if I was reading Tell No On
“You don't worry about happiness and fulfilment when you're starving.”
Harlan Coben put the old materials in this book again without reconsidering whether the twists were predictable or not.
Four children were lost in the woods, twenty years later Paul Copeland wants to revaluate this case again, he thinks that maybe his sister is still alive somewhere.
Coben narrated his story by following the step 1 2 3 4 5, not like his previous books, Tell No One - I was very excited all the time reading that book, and it's very much different for this one.I think I should leave Coben's works for a while after this.
I have read all of Coben's Myron Bolitar books and love them all, but I have so far only tried a couple of his stand alones.
Of course no one has nothing to hide and events start to stack up against Paul.This being a Harlan Coben book the story is excellent, fast paced, covering a lot of ground and with one red herring after another.
The ending is quite a surprise although I was yelling at Paul to get out of there long before the gun appeared!A very entertaining mystery, well told and fun to read.
3.5*. a real page turner. story was full of twists whenever i thought i know the murderer, there was a new mystery and a new revelation. I will definitely be reading other Coben soon.
But Coben ratchets it up a bit, adds seemingly unrelated storylines and enough McGuffins to make even the best reader stumble on their way to the conclusion.
And it probably would be convoluted if Coben gave the reader a chance to breath, but he never does.
At break-neck speed, the narrative travels through numerous locales and characters to paint a mystery that is worth the five or six hours needed to read the book.
I will say that some of the scenes are corny, and Coben does do a bit of proselytizing when given the chance, but overall, this is a great way to let the written word entertain.
This was my first Harlan Coben book and I thought it was just fabulous!
I'm not huge into "mysteries" or "thrillers", but when I do sit down with one this is the type of story that has everything I want in a "page turner" - short chapters, quick dialog, twists and turns, and narration that was surprisingly funny at times (case in point, after annoying a police officer and a prosecutor both in a matter of hours the main character concludes, "I had itched an ass this morning and now I had burned a butt.
I have a pile of books waiting to be read and could easily grab one to take to bed with me tonight.
Still, I think I'll wait until tomorrow when I can run out to the bookstore and pick up another gem Mr. Coben.
More like a 2.5, but I've read one previous Coben book, and I liked it a lot more.
Etc.The plot just seemed overly convoluted – all at the expense of character depth.
(Not that I mind convoluted plots in thrillers.
There was a lot going on in Jo Nesbo's The Snowman, but I remember it and the characters a lot more vividly, even though I read it a year ago.)Then again, I do remember chuckling a couple of times during The Woods.
Coben's characters can be snarky.But a couple of chuckles aren't enough.
I'm not going to rush to read another Coben.
Yep, Harlan Coben is officially the king of the twisty turns. I'm completely amazed how he can weave such a fascinating mystery that can change directions nearly every chapter. Even until the very end. Well done, sir!I also loved the witty dialogue. Some of the characters had me laughing out loud. And this subject matter was not light at all. Such a page turner. 5 stars!
4.5 stars!   “It's not the dead even. It's what's left behind - the echo. These woods you're walking through. There are some old timers who think a sound echoes here forever. Makes sense when you think about it. That Billingham kid. I'm sure he screamed. He screams, it echoes, just bounces back and forth, the sound getting smaller and smaller, but never entirely disappearing. Like a part of his is still calling out, even now.” I discovered the world of fiction through Harlan Coben's work. I r
I remember picking up Coben's "Gone For Good" and I remember me devouring it, discovering profanity, incredible pacing and more that it all: gut wrenching adrenaline from an unending amount of suspense.Ever since then Coben holds a special place in my heart.Whenever I get stuck, not knowing what to read next (I'm waiting for my "Our Dark Duet" novel to arrive, see my review of the first book in the series 
) I scratch my head, go through my TBR pile and then I reach the inevitable conclusion: this is the time for another Coben novel.The Woods was everything the makes Coben great.In a world filled with cop shows and gory HBO specials, we have become accustomed that thrillers come hand in hand with death.
-add a homosexual character into the mix -make sure to add a powerful, rich man who tries to give the hero a hard time -location to use: the woods-it's a great place to hide a crime where evidence can easily be hidden and not have witnesses; that way you can make an unsolvable murder take place that will come back to haunt the hero later on  -the hero will start getting cryptic messages or emails that can't be possilble because the sender has been presumed to be dead for years -an undertone of could the hero have been the murderer?
What makes you so sure your sister is alive?’‘I’m not sure,’ I said.‘But I think there’s a decent enough chance.’‘Why?’‘Because of Manolo.’‘What about him?’Yes. What about him?
The Woods should be a gripping story but I just can't care for any of the characters.
It's not that the writing is bad but the dialogues are making me feel sleepy.
It's like the characters want to pretend that they are telling a story, but play act as if they cannot communicate anything to each other - and much less to me as a reader.Nope.
Not feeling this one.DNF @ 40%
Hace veinte años, en un campamento, cuatro adolescentes entraron en un bosque.
Dos aparecieron muertos.
Dos jamás aparecieron.
En la actualidad, el hermano de una de los chicos desaparecidos recibe información que le hará volver a preguntarse qué pasó aquella noche.
Es el segundo libro que leo de este autor y volvió a volarme la cabeza.
Este tipo sabe escribir thrillers.
Te engancha, no te deja ir, te revela datos a cada rato y no para de haber giros hasta, literalmente, la última página.
Hubo muchas cosas que me disgustaron del protagonista pero...
Una de las mejores lecturas del año!
La lectura de este libro no se hace pesada en ningún momento, aunque sí debo reconocer que en algunos capítulos me preguntaba si lo que ocurría en ese momento influiría en los capítulos posteriores o si solo era relleno.
Pero sí, influye en los capítulos posteriores, lo cual me deja con muy buen sabor de boca finalizada su lectura.
Ha sido como dejar un diálogo a medias (hide spoiler)].Recomiendo este libro a los lectores que buscan un thriller rápido de leer, a pesar de que parezca algo largo, el lector llega a las últimas páginas sin percatarse.Mi puntuación es 4,5, pero como al parecer GR odia las medias estrellas, pongo 4.
There were a lot of elements I appreciated within this novel. This is the 2nd book I've read by Harlan Coben, but surely not my last! Some surprisingly awesome twists and turns here & main character was great! Twisted right up to the end!!Narration Notation: This audiobook was narrated by Scott Brick, whom I happen to thoroughly enjoy. While the entire recording was not as high quality as his more recent narrations, whenever he received a phone call, it sounded right as if you were listening in on the line with him on purpose! Neat little trick. :)
I love some of Harlan Coben's books but IMHO this was not one of his bests. I think it could have been told without a lot of the twists that turned out to not be twists at all, just page fillers. I was attached to the main character in the beginning but became separated from him as the story went along, a little too sappy for me. Would have been a great mystery if it had stuck closer to the main story line.
It kept me guessing through all the 442 pages.
That's right, suspense grips the reader till the very last page.
In the beginning you feel that the book is only about a murderer who killed 4 kids in a summer camp but Hell No!
The twists and turns are really unexpected and makes you want to read the book in one go.The Woods is a brilliant read!
As this was my first Harlan Coben Book, I wasn't expecting much, but after reading it, I have added a lot of his books in my TBR list.Jeez, you have to read it to experience the thrill.
Harlan Coben is one those authors that be can relied upon to give you a guaranteed entertaining thrilling read.
The main protagonist, Paul Copeland, is a man who knows what success smells like.
He also knows what it’s like to loose just about everyone he cares for.Some twenty years ago Paul’s sister is brutal murder whilst on summer camp, a camp that Paul also attended.
And now Paul’s wife has just died of cancer leaving Paul to raise his young daughter on his own.As for success, he is a young man on a fast track to the top of his profession.
I love Harlan Coben's writing.
You just turn and turn the pages and before you realize it you've read a 500 page book.
This is the third novel I read by him and I have many more on my to read list.
Paul is haunted by the events that took place in his life more than 20 years ago.
But after all these years the past comes rushing back.
I loved the book and even liked the ending.
i think Harlan Coben more than earned his spot in my favourite writers list.
I knew that I would enjoy this book since it is by Harlan Coben, wow it was so engaging with such a great mystery plot line.
I absolutely loved the synopsis of this book, and the story certainly lived up to that.
I actually have 2 favorite characters in this book and those would be Paul Copeland and Muse.
I would love to see a whole series made with these characters.I would have to recommend this book to any mystery lover and especially recommend to all those Coben fans.
Pow.Hackosaurus RexField Notes:HAK-oh-SAW-rus REXTyrant Hack-Novelista.k.a. Harlen Coben6 feet (1.8288 metres)Psi Upsilon Frat BoyFriend of Brownosaurus DanCurrent HoloceneNorth America (New Jersey, USA)Edgar Award winner; Shamus Award winner; Anthony Award winner; never short listed for the Man Booker Prize.Hackosaurus Rex exemplifies every image conjured by the words "hack" and "writer" when they are thrown together: plot loving, pop-culture obsessed, slightly dull of expression and quick with a manuscript.
By any standards, Hackosaurus Rex was a tremendous pulp writing animal.This giant was also one of the last of the non-cinematically adapted hackosaurids, though not for lack of trying.
It's not a horror book but a mystery.
He is working on a rape case where the father of one of the defendants is trying to use any means necessary to stop prosecuting his son.During the stress of the trial and raising his daughter, the past comes out of nowhere and beings to haunt him.
Paul's past comes back to tap him on the shoulder and says "remember me"Lucy, is a college professor, who has her students working on an anonymous journal.
Her father owned the summer camp where the teenagers went missing.
Now this was an excellent book!So many twists I didn't see coming. I thought the characters were upbeat and seemed completely real. The plot was great. At first, it seemed to me that it was going to be a typical suspenseful thriller, but the twists in the plot made it more, especially the ending. Did not see that coming!Excellent!
I recommend this if you want a quick and good murder/ mystery... many twists and turns that I didn't see coming!!! Fast paced so it keeps you interested...
But one summer night, 4 of those kids go running off in the woods where the camp is located and end up missing.
He too, worked at that camp and at the same time those 4 kids went missing,not to mention the 2 that were found murdered.
Was that other Camp worker who was found Guilty of Murdering those other people,guilty as well of what happened to those 4 kids that went running in the woods that night,20 yrs ago?You'd be surprised at what the answers are to some of those questions.Read the book and find out for yourself!
Twenty Years ago, At a Summer Camp, four teenagers vanished into the woods without returning back.
There were no clues left behind and No one knows what happened.Paul Copeland's sister was one of the missing teenagers .
Now after two decades, he is all alone raising a daughter.
When a body is found , the secrets of the past comes haunting back.
The body turns out to be one of the missing teenagers .
This gives Paul a hope in an otherwise dreary life, that his sister might be alive somewhere.
As he digs deeper, many lost unanswered questions from the Past comes rushing back.
After his return to Myron Bolitar with PROMISE ME, Coben went back to standalone thrillers with this one. It was good, although I had some doubts about the characterization. I couldn't quite believe everything I read, even though the facts were consistent. I suspect that Coben knew that if he had done more to make the characterization of certain characters consistent and clearer, then it would have telegraphed the ending. But at this pace, who really cares about characterization. It's only in retrospect that I had my doubts.
A twisty crime thriller that kept me guessing all the way to the end. Believe it or not, this was my first Harlan Coben book, and I wasn't at all disappointed. Add to that the excellent audiobook narration by Scott Brick, and it was a recipe for an engaging suspenseful read.I have to admit that maybe the ending was a bit too twisty, but thank goodness for a thorough epilogue that tied most of the final strings in a nice little bow.
