https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8428064-demonglass
Rachel Hawkins is a good author and well, I really liked the way she wrote the characters but seriously, do I have to pick a team?
Of course, our lovely Sophie wants the bad boy.
But, she has some feelings for our good-boy-can't-do-anything-wrong-silent-type Cal.I have a solution-[image error]I'm just saying, that would set the book apart!Now onto the story.It annoyed me as well.
Being distracted by our lovely but annoying Sophie, it was hard to get into the story.
Nevertheless, I enjoyed his character enough.Cal. I like that his character (until the end of the book) was reliable and predictable.
I really like the way Rachel Hawkins writes.
The plot is even more adventurous and challenging and I’m completely engrossed especially because the narrations and dialogues are a whole lot funnier and the romance is a whole lot swoonier although I do empathize with readers’ revolution against the love triangle.
I’m really very thankful to the author for making me laugh throughout the book.
I know I promised several amazing people here (Melissa, Daiane and Jilly) that I’ll read Angelfall right after this but there’s no way I could do that now because this doesn’t have an ending guys and I might really lose it if don’t get my ending immediately.
"So do I need to clean all these mirrors, or do I have to, like, stare at myself until I feel shamed or something?"Surprisingly, Dad gave a tiny smile.
I want you to break one of the mirrors.""Excuse me?"Dad leaned back against the now-drapeless window and folded his arms over his chest.
"Break a mirror, Sophie.""What what, my head?
I sort of felt like reading it for the first time because I just wanted to scream "what!" The first book is slightly better, but it was still awesome.
I remembered the love triangle from the first book in the series, Hex Hall, but I didn’t remember a lot of the plot before I started the second installment.
In terms of plot, without spoilering the last book, Sophie, Jenna, and Cal go to England for the summer so Sophie can learn more about herself/her powers and spend time with her father.
(hide spoiler)] Every time Archer showed up, I secretly hoped someone would just walk by and kill him.
(hide spoiler)]I said earlier that most of the book was interesting but not riveting.
2011 is too long away.How come so many people have already read this?
I want it now.Post Demonglass:(SPOILERS TO HEX HALL, not this one though)What I feel like doing right now is crying while banging my head against the wall while laughing.
I knew going into this book that it was going to end on a cliffhanger with the end coming at least a year away.
That's one thing I love about these books, I do not see the twists coming.
I also did not see the whole "crushing on Sophie" crush by one of the other characters featured in Hex Hall.
I swear I'm not doing it to be perverse, I just think I would have liked the book about forty times more if Rachel Hawkins had decided to make Sophie get the hell over her crush on Archer, especially since she knows he's helping to kill hundreds of innocent Prodigium, and made her slowly fall in love with the kinder, more compassionate and infinitely more mature Cal. However, this is not my book, and since Rachel Hawkins has done a good job with the direction she has taken, I will grudgingly admit, despite my blind partiality for Cal, that the book works well.There is some great chemistry between Sophie and Archer, and I like the fact that Sophie doesn't miss him and think about because of how hot he is, but rather because she misses talking to him and hanging out with him.
Sophie is spending some time on her father's estate to figure out whether she's going to keep her awesome but pesky powers, and she's still secretly pining for her missing demon-hunter crush, Archer Cross.
Kinda puts a damper on the relationship.The politics and power struggles within the Prodigium (witches, shapeshifters, and fairies) and with the demon hunters is growing steadily more complicated, and Sophie and her father must develop her gifts before time runs out.
When it comes down to it, everyone seems hunky dory on the outside but Sophie starts wondering about her dad's "friends," who Archer "really" is, and just how many people she can really trust.With a new set of characters, more intensity in Sophie's life, the fact that the school may not be what it seems, and the Eye out to kill her, Demonglass was a hit!Let me finish by saying this, I really liked Archer in the first book but after getting to know Cal, my feelings started leaning towards him and I desperately wanted something to really happen between Sophie and him.
Love Sophie, Cal, Jenna, Archer, her dad, just everyone!!!
Honestly, this is a really fun series and the I had no issues jumping right back into it even though it's been years since I read the first book. Well written with a fast moving plot line and unforgettable characters, a must read for fans of the genre.
My first thought about this book was that it was a lot sadder than the first.
There were so many emotional turns in this book that it left me hanging.
Sophie is as sarcastic and as strong as she was the first book but she still has her doubts about who she is and her powers.
Her budding relationship with her father and the bumps in the road before the major earthquake at the end also adds to the list of good things with this book, the list being:Love TriangleAwesome Main CharacterMysterious-Once-Good and Friendly-CharactersDemonsand much more that you'll have to find out for yourselfAnyway, you should read this and maybe reread it since the second time for me was better.
I literally read this in one sitting! Rachel Hawkins' books are so much fun and fast reads ! And the endings always leave me craving more.
Basically, Sophie goes to hide out in the English countryside for family/demon bonding time, whilst all the time trying to half convince the reader that she's over her evil ex-crush Archer - but she has to do it in that pathetic pining way that lets you know that, not only is her mr sexy-traitorous guy still definitely on her mind, but she is also into that stage of obsessive love-you-till-I-die that seems to happen in so many young adult paranormal romance novels after the couple in question have had one kiss.
http://www.writingis.fun/%D0%B4%D0%B5...Е, това е книга - седнах и я прочетох за максимум 3 часа. Беше ми много интересна и ми хареса как се разви сюжета - да не казвам, че веднага след като я приключих започнах и 3-тата част. Ако можеше всички книги да са толкова интересни, щеше да е най-добре!
Demonglass picks up shortly after Hex Hall left off.
Sophie Mercer attends Hecate Hall ,or Hex Hall as the students have come to call it; a school for delinquent Prodigium (witches, warlocks, vampires, werewolves, and faeries) who have had trouble controlling their powers.
In Demonglass, Sophie has decided to go through the Removal after discovering that she is a demon, not a witch like she always thought.
Sophie has seen first hand what can happen if a demon goes rogue and she refuses to risk hurting anyone she loves.
Sophie hasn’t seen him since she discovered his secret and he fled Hecate.
That’ll learn 'er.) in her snarky, funny ways without bordering on wise-assery.I think Ms Hawkins did a great job with keeping Sophie as the character we all fell in love with in the first book but still allowing her to develop naturally.She did, however, lose some well-earned Brownie points with her simpering simperiness when it came to the boys in her life.
Poor Soph, even a werewolf and a vamp look pretty good right now) and decide to become a lesbian with Jenna and raise vampire ponies on a ranch in Texas.IMAGINE HOW FUN BOOK 3 WOULD BE.Did I mention Door Number Three is bright pink?!
After Archer fleed and Sophie saw Alice kill Elodie, she decides to go through the removal. She prefers to die herself then to lose control and kill someone else. The only thing that's stopping her is her father who makes a deal with her. She will go to live with him in the summer to get to know him and her own powers better and if she still want to go through the removal after, he will let her.When they arrive at England, she finds out that she will spend time with alot more people than just h

In order to properly enjoy this book, I highly encourage you to read it first.
This is not a trilogy to read out of order.In some ways I enjoyed this more than the first one, and in others a bit less.
However this book did not really grab and easily hold my attention either.
Just that it didn't jump out at me.In this book, Sophie is sent off to spend the summer with her father.
I am liking Cal's character more and more.
I think he is my favorite character in this series.
This book is just as good as the first and I love it!In this sequel,Sophie meets her dad.I mean,really gets to know her dad and bonds with him in a unique way such as power developing/controlling.
Sophie is also with Jenna(her bestfriend)here(I'm glad),and Cal who plays a more prominent role in this book.I wonder who would Sophie choose: the one she's bethroted to, or the one that she loves?
And if anything bad happens(hope not)to either one of them,I swear I'd be devastated!So you see,this book is getting more and more interesting!
Temevo il peggio, confesso, soprattutto quando dopo neanche due pagine scarse, l’autrice fa chiaramente intendere la possibilità della comparsa di una figura geometrica sopravvalutata e super sfruttata come quella del triangolo.
Certo, Sophie non è una super eroina, spesso si perde in ragionamenti molto (troppo) adolescenziali ma grazie alla sua freschezza naturale, questi difettucci passano in secondo piano e la lettura si gusta appieno.
In realtà mi aspettavo molto di più da Archer, volevo che dimostrasse tutta la sua magica figaggine e così non è stato.
The book itself, actually, is bewitching and exciting to read and it became more exciting and more bewitching because of Sophie.
All through out the book, even the scenes are made to be serious, she never forgot to showcase her wit and snarky-ness, which made the scenes slightly light to manage, though I still sense the tension onto them.The plot has been managed to kept intact and went smoothly on the right pace.
I got the sense of their importance in the book.
I mean I can't believe those were happen and those were the truth.Moreover, I had to admit that I am really entertained on the sweet-yet-snarky romance of Sophie and Archer.
Nějak si nevybavuju, že by v prvním díle byl její táta, takže jsem byla trošku zmatená, když se tam zjevil.
Když pak se Sophie byli v zrcadlové místnosti, tak jsem mu strašně moc přála, aby se znovu dal dohromady s její mamkou.
(hide spoiler)] Ale jsem moc ráda, že na konci pro Sophie udělal to, co po něm chtěla.
Nick a Daisy, nějak jsem si o nich od začátku myslela, že jsou sourozenci.
(hide spoiler)]Archer a Spohie jsou stejní jako v prvním dílu.
Sophie made a pretty big decision at the end of Hex Hall and now, in Demonglass, the reader gets to see how that decision is carried out.What I Liked: Archer fans will be happy with his presence in Demonglass.
Some interesting information regarding his character came to light in the first book and now, in Demonglass, we get to find out where his feelings for Sophie really stand.
He definitely plays a bigger part in this book.There were twists and turns in Demonglass that I didn’t see coming!
And then, you’re left with one hell of a cliffhanger!What I Didn’t Like: Not a damn thing.
Damn you second book syndrome! Damn you! I am so very disappointed!  Le sigh This book was just boring. Not much happened throughout the entire book, and the mystery just wasn't that mysterious. Nothing really happened until the end of the book.I feel like this book was just a set up for the next book .
Fans of HEX HALL are going to love the way the story develops in DEMONGLASS. There's breathless action, and even more breathless, swoony romance, and a cliffhanger that made me both want to high five Rachel Hawkins and also, maybe yell at her a little. No spoilers here. Y'all are going to have to wait until March:)
He laughed softly. "I can't see you, but I have a feeling you're cute when you're jealous, Mercer." Well, damn!  I must say....one minute I was getting very, very bored, and the next, I was gasping and covering my mouth with one hand due to the dramatic occurrences unraveling before me. I think this is one of those situations where, while the second book was super good, it lacked a little of my favorite character....and let me correct you before you make unfair assumptions-I am not that girl wh
I think this is one of those situations where, while the second book was super good, it lacked a little of my favorite character....and let me correct you before you make unfair assumptions-I am not that girl who rates based on whether the male lead is wholly present or not (see above^^^^^my rating is clear), but if the story can't stand on it's own, that's when I will squeal about the lack of that male presence.
«A mamá siempre le gustaba decir que casi nunca sabemos qué decisiones cambiarán nuestras vidas, sobre todo porque son las decisiones más pequeñas» Posibles SPOILERS de Hex Hall 1º libro de la sagaEn Demonglass seguimos acompañando a Shopie, nuestra querida protagonista bruja/demonio. En esta ocasión las cosas se vuelven cada vez más extrañas: Primero, Archer, el chico del que está enamorada, no era quién pensaba que era: es un traidor que trabaja para “The Eye” el grupo que caza y mata demonio
Sophie, tendrá que aprender a controlar el poder que tiene y empezar a entender que ella es una futura miembro del Concejo pero… ¿Entenderá que la situación entre The Eye y los Prodigium es peligrosa o,una vez más, se meterá en problemas por culpa de sus impulsos?.Primero antes que nada: Ese final… ese final.
Quizás quedaron algunas cosas “colgadas” como por ejemplo la historia de este Concejo o cuáles son sus normas…en fin, supongo que todo eso se detallará un poco más en Spell BoundEstá narrado en 1º persona por Sophie y tengo que reconocer que esta chica es muy sarcástica.
You can't trust a single character in these books smh.Oh I love this character! Oh wait no they are a murderer..Oh but this character! Nope.. They are a traitor..This character seems loveable! Haha ok they died great.The only character I can trust is Sophie but she is the queen of bad decisions so maybe I can't trust her for long.This book was a great sequel! But the betrayal man... The betrayal in this was worse than the 1st book!
Six Words: I NEED THE NEXT BOOK NOW!!!!!!Nope, that doesn't cover everything. Another four words:I LOVE ARCHER CROSS!!!!!!
Accompanied by her best friend, the vampire, Jenna and her betrothal Cal, as we soon discover, Sophie visits Thorne Abbey, the place where her father lives and her Grandmother Alice was turned into a demon.
Sophie will try to find as much as she can about the two other demons, her father, the history behind Alice's transformation and of course herself, all the while running from the Eye and discovering who is actually raising all these demons.This book was AMAZING.
Un très bon tome 2 ! Bon, c'est vrai que le triangle amoureux qui se profilait va peut-être me souler dans le tome 3 mais à voir !
