https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35212978-the-17th-suspect
A longtime fan of the Women’s Murder Club series, I was pleased to get my hands on its seventeenth instalment.
Boxer seeks justice for the homeless, even as the killer lurks in the shadows and has developed a personal vendetta against her.
Recommended to those who enjoy the Women’s Murder Club, as well as readers looking for something light and entertaining.While this series has been developing for years, it has not lost its lustre.
More personal development and a few spikes to keep her character interesting occur throughout, though the reader may be seeking a real shake-up before too long.
I’ve always liked James Patterson’s style – fun and light with short chapters that make for a quick read.
Two of my favorite series are Alex Cross and the Women’s Murder Club.
I’m finding myself intrigued enough to start the book, but then it doesn’t hold my attention enough to be compelled to finish it.
The latest installment of The Women’s Murder Club was an all right read and an improvement over book 16.
I am invested in this series and I will read book 18 despite the few misses lately.
I have high hopes that James Patterson and Maxine Paetro can get this series back on track.
I am in total fangirl status right now!
The Women's Murder Club Series is the series that rekindled my LOVE for reading.
I was just in a total fog and numbed out completely.
I LOVED everything about the book and read it within a day and proceeded to read all of the series within a month.
Well rest assured fans that Patterson and Paetro blew this latest installment out of the water!
This particular Women's Murder Club book was more special than it's been in years.
If you have read any of these novels, the latest Women's Murder Club installment is not to be missed!!!
3.5 stars.I’m struggling lately to give any of Patterson’s books more than 3.5 stars.
His books are like Writing 101, churned out to the tune of the same template over and over.
I’ve been a fan since I was a teenager and discovered Along Came A Spider though, so I’m really reluctant to throw the towel in completely with either Alex Cross or Women’s Murder Club.
I’ve given up on everything else that is thrown out with his name attached, but I’ve hung in there with these two series.
I’m just not sure for how much longer I will continue 🤔
I’m your wife?!” one more time I’m going to start typing my reviews for these novels in all CAPS.That being said, of all the shitty installments we’ve gotten from this series, I will say this one was less shitty – which is the same thing I said about #16 so maybe we’re finally hitting the road into Mediocreville!My finding this novel more bearable comes a lot from the fact that the absolutely moronic way these women talk to each other in the other books (“sweety, baby girl, butterfly, honey buns“) was massively toned down, as was Lindsay’s level of being completely fucking annoying and all of the hugging and crying that seems to dominate these women’s lives.There are still multiple storylines – something I usually don’t like because of how jumbled the writing becomes (only specifically with this series) – but in this book, it feels much more separated and easy to keep track of.
17th Suspect by James Patterson is the 17th in the Women's Murder Club series, and this time the focus is mainly on Yuki Castellano and a solid case that had gone to trial - one she was sure she would win - and Sergeant Lindsay Boxer's determination to bring a killer to justice.When Lindsay was approached by a woman with information about murders that were occurring among the homeless, Lindsay and her partner Rich Conklin made some discoveries that Lindsay found unpalatable.
Crossing the jurisdiction line was something they didn't do - but it had to be done.While Yuki was confident of a result, the nature of the trial was unusual.
The women of the Murder Club handle more baddies in this installment: An a-typical rapist, a hot-dog lawyer with tricks up his sleeve, and an elusive serial killer who is stalking the homeless.All that sounds interesting enough, but this book was just meh to me.The arrogant, sexist men in this series just seem to be reiterations of the same foul character with different names and physical descriptions (sometimes not even that).Plus, I am not a lawyer - not even close, but even I could see through the gaping holes in Yuki's case this time.
And Lindsay's stubborn insistence on barrelling through everyone without taking a moment to really think through all her options does not endear her to me.
The second of the James Patterson books I've read recently and I enjoyed it slightly more than NYPD Red 5. My issues with both books are the same though. The author churns out so many books per year I think they lose some of the quality. This is like many of his others in that they are fine for maybe a beach read but you wouldn't want to go back and re-read them over again. There's just not enough plot to make you want to go back time and again. Free arc from netgalley
Book 17.. wow. I just love this series and it is still going strong. The Women of the Murder Club are like family now.
4 stars! I just love the Women’s Murder Club series so much! From the first book to this one it’s consistently been exciting and fun to read. I’ve always been a really big James Patterson fan. The chapters of his books are super short and I simply fly through the pages. Although a few of his books have been hit or miss, this series is my favorite. If you’ve never read a James Patterson book, I recommend reading this series. You won’t be disappointed!
I don’t know if it was because I missed the character so much while waiting for this installment or what but I loved it! The homeless killings, Boxer’s health concerns, and a male rape case lead to an intriguing read. This is a quick read but I had prior matters to handle so took me a bit longer but a reader could easily read this within a few hours. My quick and simple overall: intriguing and fast-paced.
17th Suspect I felt was a good addition to the series, however taking away the WMC, if this had been just a bog-standard crime novel by another author, it wouldn’t have been as enjoyable or as punchy and that’s because it’s the characters that makes these books shine.
Both dramas I immediately got caught up in but they aren’t anything dramatic or amazing, this book isn’t going to be one of the best crime novels you’ll read this year nor is it particularly memorable but I think a huge part of this series success is that familiarity with the characters and it’s that continuance of their lives that brings me back book after book and I don’t want this series to end yet.
Someone is shooting homeless people, and the investigating detectives are putting much effort in.
When a homeless woman asks Lindsay Boxer to help, she gets cross-wise with others in the department.
Sadly, ME Claire Washburn and reporter Cindy were just bit players, and we heard almost nothing about Richie, Lindsay's long-time cop partner.
The serial killer's motivation was pretty lame, but the twists in Yuki's case were interesting.Shame on Little Brown's editorial staff for not knowing the difference between nauseous and nauseated.
Pathetic.Finally, the B&N special edition was lame: six pages from Book #18.
Not very special.
On a personal level, I must admit that his Women’s Murder Club series – focused on the professional and personal lives of four women in San Francisco - has turned into my least favorite of his ongoing series, and the last book “The 16th Seduction” was a major disappointment for me.
When Lindsay investigates further, she crosses into the jurisdiction of another team and causes severe conflict for herself and her partner.Boxer is also a member of the Women’s Murder Club, which includes Yuki Castellano, Assistant District Attorney and married to Brady, Lindsay’s police chief boss; Claire Washburn, Chief Medical Examiner; and Cindy Thomas, crime reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle.
Their compadres, medical examiner Claire Washburn and crime reporter Cindy Thomas, are pretty much relegated to walk-ons.There are two cases to follow; murders for Lindsay and her partner, Rich Conklin (who lives with Cindy) to solve and a case with a twist for Yuki: Getting a jury to believe a man who claims to have been sexually abused by a woman.
Still, she can't get involved in a case outside her own playing field, so she's forced to sit on the sidelines until fate intervenes and a homeless person is murdered right on her home turf.Is it possible that Yuki will lose a big case and her big love all at once?
Another solid installment in an entertaining series. I adore January LaVoy’s narration, she’s outstanding and it’s always fun catching up with The Women’s Murder Club. This focuses on Yuki giving it a legal thriller vibe and some personal stuff for Lindsay. Fans of the series will be pleased I think!
This is my favorite Patterson series and Maxine Paetro did a great job with this one! I was engaged from page 1 and flew it. The most interesting part, for me, was Yuki’s storyline and the subject of female-on-male rape. Unfortunately, we don’t see much of Claire (or Cindy) in this one and Lindsay’s storyline is kind of blah, but Yuki carried the book for me!
Ugh. I love this series but really? Can we say - predictable? Oy.... still a good read just lacking the “thrill” in thriller. It was more like a ride on the teacups rather than the roller coaster. On to the next one my friends.....❤️
Lindsay Boxer has been getting a rough time lately within the Women's Murder Club books , now she is back in front of I.A when she is accused of stepping on central's turf which in all fairness she was , but she wouldn't have had too if they had done their job properly in the first place as someone is killing the homeless and when a social worker Millie comes to Lindsay she starts looking into it with the help of ME friend Claire and notices a pattern of execution gunshots .
With only 2 major eye rolls, this was a good installment in this series. I’d like to see some major changes in some characters paths in the next books before the storyline goes stale. Always entertaining tho
4.5He does it again! Another great WMC book! This wasn’t my favorite, but I like it better than the last couple. The case was so-so but there was a lot of courtroom + Yuki action which I love!
Is it just me, or have Patterson’s books seriously gone down hill?
I wanted to love this book, but it was just so dry and boring that I found myself choosing to do anything other than read it.
I used to love the women’s murder club series.
Seeing all four women working together to solve a crime, the bonds between them, and always that hit of suspense, not knowing who the murderer is and almost always putting at least one of the ladies in danger.
I’m seriously disappointed in this latest entry to a series that used to be one of my favorites.
Loved loved loved this book. Can’t wait for the next one out next April. Feel free to check out my full review at: https://tiffyreads.wordpress.com/2018...
Uggg.....what happened to the Women's Murder Club? They used to keep me on the edge of my seat, now you know exactly what's going to happen from the beginning. This one had absolutely zero suspense. Yuki's court case....more UGGGGG.
PredictableSadly this one is predictable and dull. Too much filler and not enough story. Such a shame as I used to love his books for their ingenuity
Not quite as intense feeing (mystery wise), to me, but still a good story. Always great to be back with the “Club”! :))
Initially I liked Yuki's case, liked how Yuki was fighting for something that doesn't happen very often.
Sadly Yuki's luck on cases hasn't been good lately and this time around it things were screwed up.
Sadly Yuki's work life wasn't the only thing in flux.
I was glad when finally Yuki got to the bottom of things, even as I hated to learn what was going on with Brady.Lindey's life was much like Yuki's, bad things coming at her on both fronts.
I've been reading here and there since I first started and finally realized that it might be important to read them a little more in order.
In the newest Women's Murder Club thriller, a killer who chooses victims personally is stalking San Francisco--and getting too close to Detective Lindsay Boxer.
A series of shootings exposes San Francisco to a methodical yet unpredictable killer, and a reluctant woman decides to put her trust in Sergeant Lindsay Boxer.
She suffers unsettling medical symptoms, and her friends and confidantes in the Women's Murder Club warn Lindsay against taking the crimes too much to heart.
Meanwhile, Lindsay has been given a tip about someone killing the homeless in the city.
Unfortunately, the killings are outside of her jurisdiction, and her efforts to investigate start an inner department skirmish.
Can she figure out who is killing these people?Fans of the series will be pleased with the latest outing.
There are plenty of twists and turns to keep them reading, and the cases are both compelling.
Additionally, I thought the discussion of Yuki’s case was much more graphic than it truly needed to be.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
The 17th Suspect benefits greatly from being part of a series.
I was somewhat interested in following the latest happenings in the lives of the four members of the Women's Murder Club- or at least Yuki and Lindsay.
Beyond that, the sub-plots were not that compelling and pretty easy to figure out.
The resolution of that plot was disappointing.
For her rape case, Yuki comes across as more interested in trying a novel case and establishing case law than getting to the truth of the matter.
Hopefully, Patterson and his co-writer will put more effort in the next installment of the series.
