https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16096824-a-court-of-thorns-and-roses
I felt Cruel Beauty among other B&B retellings I've read this year and last have done a far superior job at moving me emotionally.Look, I'm sure by the end of the book, all the things tie together and everything's just dandy and things will make sense, and I'd be like "ooooooh, so that's why ____." Me, I don't care.
This is a book about a girl who gets to live an easy life with a guy who's implied to be a gorgeous Fae underneath his mask.The original story makes sense: here's roughly how it goes.
INITIAL REACTION: WILL UPDATE WITH REVIEW LATER BUT KNOW I LOVED THIS. IT KILLED ME AND BROUGHT ME BACK TO LIFE Y'ALL. A REVIEW IN GIFs :Me when I received the book: When I started reading: When Feyre was introduced: When Tamlin as introduced: FEYLIN/TAMEY: LITERALLY ME WHENEVER THEY SPOKE TO/LOOKED AT EACH OTHER: THE PLOT WAS BASICALLY EVERYTHING I WANTED IT WAS... THEN THERE'S CHAPTER 27!!! AND I DIED SEVERAL TIMES   Amarantha, Also Rhysand: (more like get off my SHIP, am I right??)Feyre's cha
INITIAL REACTION: WILL UPDATE WITH REVIEW LATER BUT KNOW I LOVED THIS. IT KILLED ME AND BROUGHT ME BACK TO LIFE Y'ALL.
  A REVIEW IN GIFs
:Me when I received the book:
  When I started reading:
  When Feyre was introduced:
  When Tamlin as introduced:
  FEYLIN/TAMEY:
  LITERALLY ME WHENEVER THEY SPOKE TO/LOOKED AT EACH OTHER:
  THE PLOT WAS BASICALLY EVERYTHING I WANTED IT WAS...
  THEN THERE'S CHAPTER 27!!! AND I DIED SEVERAL TIMES
  
  
  Amarantha,
  Also Rhysand:
  (more like get off my SHIP, am I right??)Feyre's character development was ON POINT:
  BASICALLY THIS WAS ME AFTER READING IT:
It is possible I expected all the wrong things from A Court of Thorns and Roses, and maybe my review can prevent others from doing the same.Here's what I expected: an intricate fantasy world, supernatural politics and alliances, fast-paced action, a sensual romance - perhaps similar to Cruel Beauty and other Beauty and the Beast retellings, and a flawed but likable heroine.But this book is, if you ask me, nothing more or less than softcore erotica.
Despite enjoying the actual non-PG scenes in A Court of Thorns and Roses, I never felt any real chemistry between Feyre and Tamlin or any realistic challenge to their relationship.What makes Beauty and the Beast such a compelling romance?
A richly imagined fairy tale retelling of Beauty and the Beast!If you’re a lover of retellings mingling romance, danger, faerie mystical creatures and a heroine that shows a significant deal of courage throughout, then this is one title you will not want to miss out and will very likely considerably enjoy.The world-building is inventive and detailed.
The world-building being focused on distinct Courts principally ruled by High Lords and dwelt by lesser faeries, I thought, deceptively so, that we were going to be introduced to so many of them!I have to say that Sarah J.
I feel like Lucien was the only character who had an interesting back story, and he was just a much better presence than either of the main characters.BUT THE INSTALOVE.
I know in a status update I said that the book was slow, but what I should have said is that it was boring, because there is a huge difference.
A book can be fast-paced and still be boring, and vice versa.
I LOVE SLOW-PACED BOOKS.
THIS WAS BORING.That's how I felt anyway, it's my opinion.
If you weren't bored by this book, that's awesome.
4.5 stars Tamlin is going to set your loins aflame.
Phew!
I'm also fairly confident this book is going to help change the face of new adult fiction.
How awesome to see gifted writers shaping non-contemporary stories that have the coming of age/youthful perspective and vibe of YA books and combine that with the freedom that writing for an older target audience affords them.
(view spoiler)[ BITE MY NECK SOME MORE, SIR.
(hide spoiler)]Plus stunning action and gorgeous imagery and interesting characters, including a fascinating anti-hero I'm looking forward to learning more about.
Serious Darkling vibes, my friends.
SARAH J MAAS HAS DONE IT AGAIN! An enthralling blend of fairytale elements in an awesomely original world with characters you can't help but fall in love with! A new favorite!Full booktalk here - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C4HXA..._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _april 2017 - reread in prep for acowar!
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Psls2...*Reread April 2016Took me centuries to reread this but it was worth it!TEAM TAMLIN THIS WAS FABULOUSs j maas can do no wrong i swear to god
wow. Just wow. Sarah has done it again! This book was amazing! The romance was borderline new adult which I loved but it was also greatly paced. The plot was so well thought out and executed as well. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND A COURT OF THORNS AND ROSES!
Really enjoyed this one! Here's my booktalk: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8pLYC...
OOOoOOOOOh sooooOOooooo gooooOOOOoooddd
This was a solid start to this new series! I'm really interested to see where things go. I did find a few things to be a bit questionable, but I can't say what they are because HELLO SPOILERS. I'll be doing a full review/discussion on this sooooooon!
I found I wasn't so concerned about rushing through to get to the next book; since I already knew what happens I was able to savor the details and carve out a tiny piece of my heart for Tam Tam (but not really because duh).
There is nothing of substance to the book; it is fluffy, cheesy, and has been done multiple times over before, yet somehow I STILL was completely sucked in and couldn't put it down.
I ate it up like candy and am looking forward to picking up ACOMAF.
I know they were necessary, but I almost put the book down as a DNF early on bc I could hardly get through those scenes.
2.5 StarsOnce again, I find myself the odd man out when it comes to a massively popular book...I went into this really excited and and really wanting to love this thing.
There, there, Court Thornians...Quite frankly, the first 60% of this book dragged like a U-Haul trailer with no wheels.
I like to enjoy books while I'm reading them, not only for the last 25-35% when everything that was murky throughout the whole book becomes clear.
Whoops!THAT SAID.I did enjoy the writing and the ending.And while those things aren't enough to prompt me to rate this thing any higher, I AM going to read the second book.
This is definitely one of my favorite books of 2015! I am a huge Beauty and the Beast fan and was in the mood for fantasy, so those combined and written by one of my favorite authors was perfection! I definitely recommend this book to everyone and can't wait for the next installment.
Leaving the manor when the Suriel flat out TOLD her not to and that she would be safe with Tamlin, and deciding to not mention that to ANYONE before he forced her to leave (hide spoiler)]In addition to all of these idiotic choices, she also is incredibly inconsistent.
Instead of having Feyre figure anything out for herself, important things are told to her through long monologues from a number of characters throughout the book.
Lucien and Rhys saved the book for me in a lot of ways.
Yes, Maas still gives us swoon worthy gents and a strong leading fem, but they are not at all like the cast of ToG.
There's not much I'll say about him, but what I will say is that even when Maas gives you characters you're suppose to hate you still end up falling in love with them.“Be glad of your human heart, Feyre.
The plot is just as strong as the characters, and I'm so glad this wasn't a let down.
Maas perfectly blends both the YA and NA worlds into this one book.
The first half sucks but keep readingThere's no way around it. From page 1 to about 200, Feyre is an  annoying, blindingly stupid and obstinate main character. I nearly put this book down half a dozen times (it was like reading Red Queen). BUT, midway through the book, things turned around magnificently. And I cannot wait to read the sequel.  Feyre is hunting in the middle of the woods to keep her useless starving family alive (Hunger Games, anyone?). A chance encounter with a wolf - who wasn'
I nearly put this book down half a dozen times (it was like reading Red Queen).
She is forced to go to the fairy realm to live out the remaining years of her human life - no friends, no family and no freedom.
Feyre lands in the Spring court - which is under a masquerade curse for nearly fifty years.
Without giving any spoilers, I sure hope book 2 does a complete character shift on you-know-who (NOT voldemort) because I am not pleased with the way the love interest was hinted at during the end of the book.
And while the Beauty and the Beast portion of our story wasn't entirely Disney, it was significantly Disney.So here's the deal: I liked this book.
It's not much of a spoiler, but it is a piece of information that isn't revealed until you're well into the book:(view spoiler)[Having fae that can lie is like having vampires that don't drink blood or werewolves that don't change on the full moon.If you don't see the problem with that, then this won't bother you, but guys .
4.8/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“Don't feel bad for one moment about doing what brings you joy.” I'm speechless. What am I supposed to say after this? Am I supposed to write a coherent review with vital points as to why this book WAS FUCKING AMAZING??? I CAN'T EVEN TALK RIGHT NOW I'M SPEECHLESS. I WANT THE SECOND BOOK IN MY HANDS BUT MY ORDER STILL HASN'T COME. I'M READY TO GO TO FUCKING ENGLAND MYSELF AND PURCHASE IT. KIDS I'M LITERALLY DYING HERE. The Beauty and the Beast-esque fantasy drama tells the st
Am I supposed to write a coherent review with vital points as to why this book WAS FUCKING AMAZING???
Feyre must find a way to stop it or doom Tamlin and his world forever.I'm not a fantasy fan.
I'm reading books in English while my native language is Greek so fantasy fell a bit harsh on me.
I don't like when a book is crowded with characters, it doesn't give me the space to love them all.
I fucking love Rhysand man.
I want to delve more into this world wHEN MY FUCKING BOOK ARRIVES.Now to the juicy shit...
Maybe after this book I will start reading more fantasy.
Beauty and the Beast? The Iron Fey series? Perfection? HALLELUJUH MY SENORITAS! :'D
I've been anticipating this book and SARAH DID NOT DISAPPOINT! it was so wonderful and just everything. I LOVED IT SO MUCH and audibly squealed at many parts. Just...wonderful. So wonderful.Update: I have officially influenced two people to buy this book. MUAHAHA IT BEGINS.
Well, I wasn't expecting for this book to hurt like a bitch again, but it did.
Even though, I was aware of what was to come, my heart bled for Feyre.
Those scenes that took place Under the Mountain were written ridiculously well and massive props to Queen Maas for captivating and writing about Feyre's struggles, internal dialogue and despair like that.
I felt every word, every emotion.
Despite it being my least favourite in the series, I love this book.
I'm utter and complete trash for anything Sarah J Maas.
-------------------------------First read: May 2015Second read: May 2016Third read: April 2017Fourth read: February 2018
Incredibly rough start.
The first chapter is one of the most annoying I've ever read.
Despite the compelling subject matter, I really struggled with it, because it was filled with passive and fragmented sentences.
In three paragraphs alone, five sentences start with, "But".
It drove me crazy, and is why it took me three attempts to finally get into this book.
BUT(view spoiler)[ see what I did there???
(hide spoiler)] once I did, whoa.
Sure, there were some problematic themes, a few over-used tropes, and some lingering issues with the writing (or really, I guess that would be editing), but overall, I REALLY ENJOYED IT.
Reread May 2026 -- still just as amazing as the first time!Wow. So I expected to at least LIKE this book because it was written by one of my favorite authors...
But I never expected to love it.
Maas has already created an incredible series that I'm so in love with, and I can't expect that she would have it in her to create TWO insanely, amazing series.
Soooo amazing.
The Throne of Glass series is still my favorite I think, but who knows.
This is just the first book, and that series has three books out.
I just know both were fantastic...
It's my favorite new thing, to re-read books either through Audible or Overdrive.
And also, who could have sex with some old beast after he had that ritual thing with someone else.
Mel ❤️*****Old Review*****I had a love/hate relationship with this book.
I loved some of the characters in the book.
I loved the scenery I pictured in the book from the descriptions.
I'm not sure where the next book is going to take us, but there was something a little weird happen at the end and I'm hoping that is explained.
This is not a HUGE action book, but I think it's coming!
Prepare to see what I felt like during the reading of this book............................................................... (The original gif of the fat guy with boobs flopping in slow motion won't load. Thanks GR)This shit reads slowwwwwlyyyyy. Not much happens in the entire first 2/3 of this whole book.You have Feyre who is feeding her dad and her two evil stepsisters. Oh wait, this is Beauty and the Beast not Cinderella. Anyways, her dad is pretty much spineless after losing his money and
Prepare to see what I felt like during the reading of this book...............................................................
Not much happens in the entire first 2/3 of this whole book.You have Feyre who is feeding her dad and her two evil stepsisters.
Turns out the wolf is Fae and a big bad guy shows up demanding a life for a life.
He turns from the monster to a fae that has a mask on due to an curse/plague/some shit.
Bad evil woman has the land under her spell.
I like evil woman.
Evil woman saved the book from a one star just because she was a horny bitch.
4.5 STARS "I love you," I said, and stabbed him.  They say fairytales are forever, endless stories woven with magic. But sometimes, although you hold dear those innocent depictions of love and courage from childhood memories, your mind desires a new outlook on those tales. Case in point, A Court of Thorns and Roses by the ever-brilliant Sarah J. Maas, manages to dress the wonderful key-elements of Beauty and the Beast into a mesmerizing journey with threads of smart originality, enthralling fant
Don't worry, this time there's no "harem of men" like in ToG (not that I'm complaining) -- yet -- but the central piece of the whole book is the love unraveling between Feyre and Tamlin.
I loved the fact that him and Feyre are in the early stages of a friendship and, maybe, of a future romance.
Aaand here's the problem actually: if Sarah does indeed decide to develop a love triangle in the next installment, the love on which the events in ACoTaR unfolded won't feel as solid as it's supposed to be.
Also, I'd love to see something happening between Nesta and Lucien.
And there won't be another asshole *cough Rowan* who shows up in the middle of the book, treats our snowflake like shit because secretly he too is in love with her.
Oh, don't you worry, if you don't like the asshole or the jackass, there will be a new bitch in the 3rd book, who will be falling head over heels in love with the snowflake.
I mean, it's written by Sarah J Mass, so every single man in the story has to be in love with the MC!
It will probably only last a book anyway XDORIGINAL REVIEW : February 2016In dedication to my friend Chelsea who saw my rating coming a mile away (you know me way too well), here are little lyrics that show pretty well how I feel about this book in the end : You are out of my mind, you aren't seeing my side,You waste all this time trying to get to me,But you are out of my miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiindI'll probably write a real review later, but for now I shall just run through a few of the explanations for my rating : ✘ 0 star for the BLEH - at best - romance between Mr Golden and Mrs Painter who stays at home because DUH, woman's place, you know.
