https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5556466-the-last-child
Now, I don’t know about you, but in my book, that’s the sign of an impressive writer—one who manages to catch me with only a teeny tiny taste.Even with the frenzy-inducing suspense, the hefty list of questionable characters and the constant probing of the facts this storyline incites, The Last Child reads more like literary fiction than anything else.
I wanted to reach into the story and hug Johnny; to convince the broken boy that somehow, someway things would eventually be okay.
The case grows colder by the day-But, then another child vanishes….This novel shows why John Hart is a multiple Edgar Award winner.
This is a crime novel, but it is also a family drama, a testing of faith, an examination of humanity, the best and the worst, a coming of age tale that reaches into your very soul, stirring a melting pot of emotions.
Johnny is a like a modern- day Huck Finn, a child abandoned, who must survive by pure grit, but one who possesses a tenderness that nearly brought me to tears.
Thirteen-year-old Johnny Merrimon has a twin sister, Alyssa, but she disappeared about a year ago.
Johnny’s mother Katherine blamed Spencer for Alyssa’s fate, and he left them two weeks later.
Johnny’s mother fell apart.An old rival of Johnny’s dad, Ken Holloway, who had never gotten over Katherine, moved into their lives, keeping Katherine doped up and beating both her and Johnny.
He sees what is happening with Katherine and Johnny, and tries to help, but they won’t let him; they felt he had let them down by not finding Alyssa.One year after Alyssa’s disappearance, another girl goes missing: Tiffany Shore.
Johnny is convinced that finding Tiffany is the key to finding Alyssa.
Hart does it again.
A heart thumping, holy crap, I need to keep reading, adrenaline rush of a thriller that left me breathless with anticipation.Johnny Merrimon is a 13'year old boy who is on the run.
His twin sister went missing more than a year ago and he's taken it upon himself to find her.
Hart is a master thriller teller.
Thanks to Norma and Brenda for letting me hitch a ride on this exciting travelling sister journey:)All of our Traveling Sister Reads Reviews can be found on our blog: https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
The only other people who seem to care are Johnny's best friend Jack and a burned out cop named Clyde Hunt.
The story zigs and zags all over the place, taking Johnny and Detective Hunt to places most people would be reluctant to go, both physically and emotionally.I'd never heard of John Hart before this book but I'll be picking up his back catalog after this.
The relationships between the characters and their families drove the book forward, Johnny and his mother, Hunt and his son, Jack and his family.
Traveling Sisters Review by NORMA, BRENDA and JEN!!HART has a knack to keep you totally engaged with jaw-dropping moments that even surprised Norma’s deductive sleuthing skills.THE LAST CHILD by JOHN HART is an action-packed, tense, fast-paced, and a suspenseful thriller with lots of surprising twists and turns along the way that kept us all reading and guessing right to the very end.JOHN HART delivers a character driven story here that is brilliantly and cleverly written in such a skillful way that allows us to really get into our main character’s voices and the storyline, Johnny, a young boy’s desperate search for the truth and Hunt’s relentlessness and personal quest in solving the crime which ends up costing him dearly.
Johnny is a young boy with the heart of a warrior and a predilection for eagle feathers, war paint, and fire.
This is Johnny Merrimon, and he continues to search for his missing sister a year after the police fail in their attempts to locate her.
Johnny can expect no help from his parents, with the father taking off, the mother turning to pills and to an abusive man to distract from the loss.
He does have a couple of people in his corner, the detective who continues to be haunted by this case and a best friend named Jack.
I don’t normally like to draw comparisons, but this was mentioned on the insert of the back cover.
Not in a courtroom way, but I really did love this book.
I also find it hard to use the words ‘favourite’ book of the year, but this was awesome!
I wouldn't have had this pleasure, otherwise.
I loved reading about Johnny, a lad vigilante.
His twin sister missing for a year, his poor and brittle mum grieving and suffering against the hand of a despicable predator.
This book had it all.
Johnny’s mum was also a favourite for me, I liked following her journey.
The very first chapter had my heart twisted in knots.
I know it's your stomach that is usually twisted in knots, but this book told a strong hold of my heart and did not let go until the end.
Johnny Merrimon, the main character, was on a mission to find his lost sister, Alyssa, and while on the search he endured many hardships, forcing him to grow up earlier than his time, as well as coming into contact with several sinister and just plain evil characters along the way.
Another author to love.
Another North Carolina author to love.
There is a large cast of characters in this novel, yet each is woven into the story in perfect timing so it is easy to keep track.
However, this one is different in almost every way due to the depth of the characters we meet along the way, the many threads cast by each person, and the way these threads come together through the course of the novel.Detective Clyde Hunt does his best to prevent Johnny Morrimon from getting into serious trouble as he searches for his sister.
Darkness is a cancer of the human heart. I haven't been able to stop thinking about this book ever since I've finished reading it. For months it was sitting on my shelf because I wasn't bothered to pick it up; but my interest piqued when the lovely Jennifer read and reviewed this book. I finally decided to read it because I also found that the author was coming out with a new book which takes place years after this one. The Last Child was a fantastic read. I honestly loved everything about it a
I haven't been able to stop thinking about this book ever since I've finished reading it.
I honestly loved everything about it and it's definitely become one of my favourite books of this year and possibly of all-time.
I literally couldn't pull myself away from my book because I was so immersed in the lives of these characters.
Hart has created flawed characters that felt so raw and real to me.
Hart is a wonderful storyteller and I'm definitely going to read more of his work.
I couldn't recommend The Last Child enough so give it a read if you haven't already!
Traveling sister review with Norma and JenLoved sharing the twists and surprises from The Last Child with Norma and Jen. All of our Traveling Sister reviews can be found on our sister bloghttps://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
I have waited such a long time to read this book.
Sometimes your anticipation for a novel, breeds a disappointed reader.
However, I am happy to say that in this case I was not disappointed.John Hart has provided this reader with many hours of an emotionally wonderfully written novel.
It was so many things a novel should encompass, wonderfully flawed characters, a theme that while was horrible did not have the gruesome details so many thrillers seem to think they need.
I enjoyed this book and recommend it to those who are looking for something special in the area of thriller novels.
Wow!! Simply WOW!! I officially love this author!! Everything came to a full circle. The author taps into very strong subjects but he manages to be subtle and refined, without having to be crude or detailed to get the message across. I loved his latest work, Redemption Road, and in my opinion this book superseded that one and it was a five star read as well.
They're both thrillers but this one’s improved by a level of suspense, a slow build that about midway picks up then just keeps accelerating right to the end - don’t be surprised if your up half the night.
When an author pulls it off it’s fabulous.
And I fell for Hunt, BECAUSE he fell for Johnny - because just like me he wanted to "put an arm around the kid, make him understand, and at the same time, make him stop" Cons:  Bit slow & convoluted at times – persevere.
The mother Katherine’s journey of despair definitely overdone, in fact there’s a fair bit of overblown drama.
loved this book!!!!
Perhaps it can be called a literary thriller, since there was just so much more on offer than the usual.For this reason I jumped at the opportunity to read The Last Child about Johnny Merriman and his best friend Jack who encountered the dark side of life when the tide turned against them at the age of thirteen.
I read large parts of the book twice to catch up on the action, but also to enjoy the clues more that was so deftly woven into the plot.But most of all, the book was not just skillfully written, it also introduced the reader to a young man who had to grow up fast.
So I’ve made a commitment to dust off the occasional book in between the new releases and boy did I hit the jackpot on this one.This goes beyond the traditional mystery due to its emotional breadth and depth.
And how lucky for me that you’re the author of numerous stories of suspense not the least of which, Redemption Road, has been on my must get to list for months.
The library Spring sales are coming up and I see myself digging for more Hart…I better make more shelf room.Highly recommend for fans of mysteries and well written stories, a 4.5 rounded up to 5 for the ability to both engage and surprise me.
Hart writes sequentially without an outline, a style that makes for very well developed and engaging characters.
There are a couple holes in plot but they are mostly fairly minor and didn’t take away from my enjoyment of the story.
I recently had the opportunity to meet John Hart and he revealed some interesting tidbits about the story.
For one thing, Johnny Merrimon, the young man at the heart of this story, appeared in an earlier book of Hart’s.
Hart liked that minor player so much that he made him the subject of a book of his own.
In the first few pages, I thought Oh this book is going to be just too depressing for me!
One year ago, Johnny Merrimon's twin sister, Alyssa, was abducted, seen being pulled into a vehicle while walking home after her father failed to pick her up.
At the young age of thirteen, Johnny deals with these problems and his emotions in the only way he can--by taking petty revenge on Ken, doing his best to take care of his mother and spending his free time pursuing clues about the whereabouts of his sister.
My second 5-star rating for 2018 and both books set in North Carolina.
Read THE CHILD so long ago when it was first published and STILL remember a good portion of it.Loved it and John Hart's storytelling expertise!
His twin sister, Alyssa, has gone missing for some time.
His father has taken to the road to escape his sorrow and his own self-inflicted guilt.But Johnny refuses to lay the gauntlet down.
Detective Clyde Hunt had promised a beleaguered mother and son that he would bring Alyssa back to them.
Another promise.
Another sense of false hope.John Hart presents his characters here in varied stages of rawness.
Pain envelops them all and in varying degrees.
He will always present his characters in the faintest of light and in the depths of that darkness.
It's well written with superb characterization & a mystery that kept me wondering until the very end, but the basis of the story, child abuse & abduction, was heart-wrenching.
I don't like books about kids being hurt & yet this one captivated me.The drive of the main characters was incredible, yet believable.
I guess I could hide more under spoiler tags, but then I'd write a book.
If you like murder mysteries, this is one of the finest.
I never want to read it again & it added nothing to my life save for entertainment, but it was a hell of a ride.
Think  Sling Blade  meets   Mystic River    with a touch of   A Prayer for Owen Meany  . All three are among my favorite movies/books, respectively, but   The Last Child   made my concurrent reading about the Armenian Genocide feel uplifting by comparison.
This is a real rollercoaster of a book, filled with twist and turns to keep you reading.
At times I found it hard to put down so I could get some sleep.
My first impression on this tale were swept away as the story of Johnny looking for his missing sister was turned on its head as this 13 year old boy struggled with his own fears and became an unlikely hero.
This is where the the twists in the tale take this book to another level.
3.75★This was my suspend reality read for the month.
You know when the words mystery and thriller are used in the same sentence to describe a book, there is going to be too much coincidence and unbelievable thriller stuff happening to characters.
But that is why books like this are written and read.
And an extra quarter of a point added back because this was written by a man and instead of a book where the main female protagonist does stupid girl stuff, our male detective is defective with his maleness.
This book is John Hart's third, and the third that I've read.
There is a common theme in his books.
Take an ordinary happy person and turn their dreams into nightmares.In this book, Johnny's sister was abducted a year ago and never found, which resulted in his father leaving, his mother turning to drugs and alcohol, the loss of his home, and his obsession with finding her.In this book, a well-respected detective has lost his wife, is losing his son, and is also obsessed with finding Johnny's sister, which he has failed to do.What a rich, meaty story!
And show how events are related and affected by other events.I loved this book!
I highly recommend this book!
Johnny Merrimon's picture-perfect family is shattered when Johnny's twelve-year-old twin sister, Alyssa, goes missing.
Abandoned for all practical purposes, Johnny continues his own search for his sister, refusing to believe that she is dead, and putting himself at enormous risk.
A freak chain of events reinvigorates the official search for Alyssa, but Johnny manages to stay one step ahead of the police detectives who are leading the investigation.
The book does suffer from a couple of amazing coincidences that are hard to imagine and Johnny sometimes seems wise way beyond his years, especially considering that he is only thirteen.
This is a missing child mystery which turns very intense.
Alyssa, an ebullient 12 year old went missing one afternoon , returning from school.
Alyssa'sparents are devastated and their marriage suffers as the mother blames the father who was supposed to pick her up, but forgot to.
not finding the child.One year passes by, another girl goes missing, and the hornet's nest is stirred with unbelievable repercussions.
, and why?How I came across the book:I borrowed this from my friend Manju's 5 star rated books.
(I am on a quest to read one 5 star book each from my friends' shelves without their knowledge )
This was very excellent, but I could have really benefited from seeing a therapist while reading this.
I like when the author paints such a clear picture of what is going on that I feel it, not just read about it.
However, that meant in this story that I felt a lot of emotions that were not of the feel-good kind.
The good news is that the author doesn't go into graphic detail about things you don't want to know about.
Definitely recommend, but I'm going to read what I think is a feel-good read next.
