https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26936.Rock_Springs
Also, if the tenor of this story reminds you of the Coen brothers, films like Fargo or The Big Lebowski, there’s a good reason: both Ford and the famous filmmakers feature down-and-out offbeat characters who frequently live outside the law as they deal with oddball happenings and events.
There’s plenty more color as the story continues, including Edna recounting her tragic tale of what happened to a spider monkey she once brought home after winning the monkey in a game of dice and Earl stopping to make a call in the mobile home of a big Black woman caring for her brain damaged grandson, a home that’s part of a mobile home community next to an honest-to-goodness gold mine.
Hunting, fishing, drinking too much, avoiding going to jail, grudgingly going to jail, thinking up get rich schemes, abandoning them when they flop, committing or discovering adultery, witnessing accidents, witnessing murders, dealing with being unemployed when your wife’s successful ex comes to town, being a child and knowing one day you’ll be one of those sad adults, being an adult looking back on that life-changing incident that made you grow up, realizing you're basically alone.Welcome to Richard Ford country, folks.
Montana roads and interstates.
Lots of motels.
Pick-up trucks.
Some gorgeous endings.
All written in a low-key yet poetic voice that feels authentic and as comfortable as a faded pair of blue jeans.
Imagine if Carver, Hemingway and Tobias Wolff drank too much beer and then got into a pissing competition.
Rocky Mountain Highs Flock of Snow Geese"Now he walks in quiet solitude, the forest and the streams, seeking grace in every step he takes.His sight is turned inside himself, to try and understandthe serenity of a clear blue mountain lake."Rocky Mountain High, Denver/Taylor, 1972This splendid collection of short stories reminds me why I love realist short stories of unique characters in gorgeous faraway settings I'd never experience but for the magic of literature.In picturesque prose precisely
Flock of Snow Geese"Now he walks in quiet solitude, the forest and the streams, seeking grace in every step he takes.His sight is turned inside himself, to try and understandthe serenity of a clear blue mountain lake."Rocky Mountain High, Denver/Taylor, 1972This splendid collection of short stories reminds me why I love realist short stories of unique characters in gorgeous faraway settings I'd never experience but for the magic of literature.In picturesque prose precisely crafting signal situations, Richard Ford explores turbulence in relationships and the human restive consciousness, made all the more evident against his halcyon landscapes, from the wide ranges of Wyoming to the highlands of Montana.
Talvez pela "incapacidade que não nos deixa compreender que a vida pode ser límpida e singela; que faz com que a nossa existência seja uma espécie de fronteira entre dois nadas; que faz de nós nem mais nem menos do que animais que se cruzam - desconfiados, rancorosos, desconhecendo a tolerância e a paixão."NamoradosRussel...divorciado, vive com a filha e com a namorada Arlene, cujo ex-marido vai ser preso.
O ComunistaLes...tem dezasseis anos é órfão de pai e vive com a mãe, uma mulher que "procurava alguém que nos protegesse a ambos, mas não deu resultado.
If that sounds like something you'd be into then I can almost guarantee you'll like Rock Springs.Elsewise:These stories can feel repetitive in the middle of the collection ("Sweethearts" and "Winterkill" have such identical set ups that if someone else had written one of them instead of Richard Ford, he could sue them for plagiarism.
A woman in "Winterkill" says an almost identical line as a woman in "Empire"--certainly deliberate, also not going to help combat criticisms of sexism--and if you want to chuckle to yourself a little, you should read each story's opening paragraph in succession.
When Lucy takes the beer and the hotdog and the transistor radio out of the paper bag and says: “I’ve accumulated this much so far.” Wow. And the best thing is that Ford doesn’t stop the flow of narrative, doesn’t let the narrator reflect, or even notice the importance of that image; he leaves it for the reader to discover.
In this story, as with all of the stories in this collection, Ford has thought deeply about his characters, journeyed inside to imagine what life must mean, and feel like, for them.
And like many of Ford’s stories, a day in the life of the characters takes on much deeper meaning because of how the narrator thinks and feels about what happens.
Set mostly in the towns and rural areas of Montana, his stories are about characters who have survived against the odds - busted marriages, unemployment, jail terms, and a kind of bleak aimlessness.
In another story, a boy watches his parents' marriage come unglued as a young man only a few years older drives off into the night with the boy's mother.
A game of canasta is interrupted in a young boy's home when his father punches another man in the chest and kills him.
It becomes most intense when a character is confused:Troy moved his hand around on the deer, then looked at me again in a painful way."What is it?" he said."A deer," I said.
"You caught a dead deer."Troy looked back at the little deer for a moment, and stared as if he did not know what to say about it.
Moments that aren't so unusual become evil or darkly funny, like in Raymond Carver.
I've been reading some more of Carver's friends since I ran out of his writing to read: Tobias Wolff, Ford, and maybe Andre Dubus?
Seedy characters in desperate situations, and often with children caught in the middle of it all—I wanted to know more about these people, but Ford only gives us small glimpses at a time, mostly from the first person perspective.
As another reviewer noted, it's largely told from a male perspective, but I didn't feel as if the female characters were slighted at all.
While there's largely a disconnect between parents and children here, Ford still manages to convey a maternal tenderness in these stories that most female characters in the Bascome novels lacked.I can see how the back-to-back publication of this and the Sportswriter in the late-80s really put Ford on the map.
Two words: gold mine. Two more: loved this.My absolute favorite was “Sweethearts,” followed close by “Communist” and the titular “Rock Springs.”
Excelent volum de proză scurtă despre o Americă a anilor 60-70 depresivă, dezbinată și destul de violentă. Multe conflicte de familie, multe familii divorțate și copii orfani de tată sau mamă, multe relații extraconjugale. Personajele principale sunt în marea lor majoritate bărbați (adulți sau adolescenți) puși în fața unor situații tensionate. Mai tot timpul dezertează, incapabili să înțeleagă ceea ce li se întâmplă. Preferă resemnarea, melancolia și depresia.
Richard Ford's short stories, because they are short stories, lack the almost overwhelming power and depth of his great novels, The Sportswriter and Independence Day. But as short stories, they are no less masterfully crafted and lyrical.
Ford also ends his stories as well as any writer alive, frequently zooming back from the protagonist and showing us how they and this small moment they have been captured in resonate in the great, hard void of a universe that surrounds us all.
This is a collection of short stories published in 1987, well before his famous novels, The Sportwriter and Independence Day and of course the recently published Canada.
The thing that struck me the most while reading this collection was the striking similarities between the short story "Great Falls" and the first half of "Canada" written more than 25 years later.
He was influenced by one of my favorite writers (Richard Yates) and spent significant time hanging out with two of my other favorites (Tobias Wolff and Raymond Carver.) The time those three have spent together really shows.
Ford may not be quite as good as Wolff or Carver, but who is?
As far as short story writers go, nobody in my book.Ford has this quiet and dark tone that also comes off as simple and deceptive.
While many of the characters seem lonely and broken, Ford manages to always shine a light or toss a life jacket.
too American, too male, too middle aged for me to really really get, but I'm sure there was something good going on hereplus, I learnt what the term 'gash-hound' means (had never heard that one before...)
the stories were full of surprise for me. I love realism in a way ford described. unfortunately, the book is not accessible and I can't download it from the internet. I'd be flattered if anyone send me ebook version of book. I'd be very flattered friends. I studied two stories of this collection. sweethearts and rocksprings. and I overwhelmed.
It’s important for you to know that I have a new favorite author, Richard Ford.
And then there is Richard Ford, a masterful storyteller, and an excellent writer with a knack for writing in such a way that the reader feels she is being told a story.
“The house itself is gone now—I have been to the spot.”  But then, as the story picks up, as the reader loses herself in the conflict, Ford is wise enough not to interrupt anymore, at least until the heavy drama comes to a pause when the narrator reminds us again of our familiarity, our relationship -- as storyteller and listener -- with a simple comment.
One of my dad's old books. I read it on a whim and I was surprised how I enjoyed a lot of the stories. I do love attention to detail and Ford is very meticulous about bringing the surroundings to life, creating a sense of realism in the book and among the characters that you don't find often.
Rock Springs gathers a number of stories that generally take place in and around Great Falls, Montana, and feature characters either fallen on hard times or living a life of limited scope of opportunity.In ‘Rock Springs’, a man travels in a stolen car with his girlfriend and daughter and their dog towards what they hope is their next chance at a life together.
There is a strange ambivalence displayed by many of the main viewpoint characters when it comes to love and/or fidelity, a sense that there will not or cannot be any serious repercussions to living in the moment of a cadged physical intimacy.Ford’s women are perhaps more resilient than the men, fatalistic, accepting of the restricted circumstances of their lives, to an extent forgiving of their partner’s weaknesses.
Not long ago I read The Ultimate Good Luck and now his excellent short story collection, Rock Springs.
I can see how Ford got thrown in with Raymond Carver and Tobias Wolff as one of the originators of “dirty realism”: these are stories of broken families, petty criminals, hard luck and hard times.
It is also a time before general prosperity-there seem to be fewer options and harder living that reminds me of the hard luck people you saw in the 70s and 80s in dive bars, bus stations, and hitch hiking-hard living and desperate lives.
Ford captures them all accurately with precision.
I can't remember whether or not this collection was assigned for contemporary american lit, but the stories in Rock Springs just seem like the kind of trailerpark hardluck narrative that was all the rage back in the day.
It's Raymond Carver, but with more hunting, more manslaughter, more wives (and ex-wives) working in taverns, more unemployment checks running out, more cheating husbands getting in bad with biker gangs, more cheating wives getting in a huff and flouncing down the road, and more escaping to Florida as the final chance to make good in a life gone wibbly-wobbly.
The stories were good.
This book is best read a story at a time over days and days, preferably alongside something of more lyrical, literary, contemporary, stock.
Rock Springs is Richard Ford's first collection of short stories, which was published after his third novel, The Sportswriter, finally cracked the glass ceiling and allowed him to rise to the prominence he now enjoys in American letters.This collection of short fiction is set in various places across Montana, and the characters are distinctly average, working-class,, and American.
The stories involve people on the precipice of big decisions in tough situations: infidelity, jail, unemployment, coming of age.The tone and atmosphere of Ford's writing is what makes this collection such a lasting piece of worthy literature.
Yeah it's Carver with a shot of Hemingway but hell if you're gonna use a model those guys are the best.Anyway the theme of escape and cars is as American as the town it's set it.And it's truly stunning the amount of character devlopement Ford can telegraph in just a few sentences.The last lines of this story truly raise the bar to something epic and grand (in its minimalist way).
Really awe inspiring.I still can't believe I hadn't read these stories earlier but I guess like most I was too distracted by the Bascombe books and overlooked everything else by Ford.This summer is turning into the summer of Ford for me after just finishing The Ultimate Good Luck.And with Canada just out I'll be reaching for that sometime in the next few weeks.

We were assigned to read the short story "Rock Springs" for a literature class I'm taking called "Quest & Arrival." I was immediately taken with Richard Ford's writing and a friend lent me his copy and subsequently gave to me...I'm excited to read the rest of the short stories contained in this book and subsequent writings by this author.
Rock Springs is told in first person narrative (Earl) looking to escape the threat of jail time for writing bad checks in Montana.
The ending leaves you pondering so many things...Ordinarily I might not have encountered his writings...I know I will enjoy many more hours with a Richard Ford story/novel in hand.
I'm re-reading this one, having felt its impact some years before. Or should I say I'm reading "the optimists" over and over again. I've rarely seen a story whose strengths lie so heavily in the denouement,the repercussions of the climax outweighing the actual event without really being delved into. The arc of a whole life (or more aptly, a broken one) is implied here, and details of that life, for me at least, rushed to fill the gap. It's got me excited to see how much staying power the rest of the collection has.
This book was my first introduction to Ford back when I was 17. I had been searching for something Kerouac-esque to read as my love of On The Road was just making me want to flee. To this day the stories are still as powerful and elegant as they ever were. Ford's language is both languid and sparse. It is as if his characters really were narrating for you in how Ford writes like Carver. Which is to say, he writes the way people speak. While that may not sound like a plus, I assure you it is.
Richard Ford writes like the west can feel - stark, cold, sad. I didn't realize when I picked up the book that it was a set of short stories but I'm glad because I really liked them. But I also didn't realize that they would be so full of melancholy either. They reminded me of Annie Proulx style a bit. While I wouldn't recommend this book if you're feeling blue, I loved his use of the landscapes to develop his themes.
I thought this was a 3.5 stars read for me, until near the end and the story 'Optimists', which I thought was excellent. This moved it up to 4 stars, I was less interested in the subject matter than in some if his other books. Living, fishing and hunting in small town Montana is something I know nothing about, and reading about it didn't appeal to me much.As well written as Ford's books usually are.
Apparently Ford is another author who I have been intending to read for a while only to find out when I read the title story of this collection that I already have and already love. "Rock Springs" is one of those stories everyone has read, and with just cause. Ford reminds me a little of a cross between McGuane and Carver. Western stories without cowboys and ranches but with down and outs. Either way, they are great stories.
