https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389627.Diary_of_a_Wimpy_Kid
I suppose one good thing came from it: Jacob came home from school the next day, sat down with a new notebook, and proceeded to design a cover and several entries for his new "diary" book.**************** Update **************Oddly enough, this book review seems to be engendering strong reactions in a number of readers.
However, I stand by my feelings about the main character, and when my children reach middle school, I will still encourage them towards books with redeeming characters.
Until then, I guess we'll have to continue reading all the other books about older children that manage to both entertain AND provide a challenging reading/listening experience, develop vocabularies, broaden horizons, and remain, in some way, worthwhile.
كتاب هزلي لطيف يمكن أن تنهيه في جلسة واحدة إذا قُدر لي أن أكمل تلك السلسلة، فسوف أقرأها بلغتها الأصلية، ليس لأن الترجمة سيئة، ولكن لأن النكات والحكايات الفكاهية تفقد جزءاً كبيراً من قوتها عند ترجمتها
Jesus, what an asshole.
مذكرات خفيفة لطالب في المرحلة المتوسطةالرسومات كانت جيدة، الأفكار كانت مألوفة إلى حد ما، فكثير من الأفلام الأجنبية تناولت تلك المرحلة، ولا اعتقد أنها ستتوقف عن تناولها طالما ما زال يتابعها ملايين المشاهدينبشكل عام مذكرات خفيفة الظل لا تشعر بالوقت معها، لكني لا أشعر بالحماس لتكملة تلك السلسلة
I apologize.) One of my students gave me his copy of Wimpy Kid and then asked me every day for a month if I had read it yet.
Not wanting to disappoint a student excited about a book, I finally sat down one afternoon and flew through it.
I celebrate any book that makes kids want to read.
I suffered through all four of the ridiculous Twilight books just so I could keep up with my obsessed students, and when asked my opinion I gave it freely - Bella is a fool.
This was so cute and funny, i laughed out loud many times even the comedy books that i have read didn't make me laugh this hard! “I'll be famous one day, but for now I'm stuck in middle school with a bunch of morons."“The best person I know is Myself.”Ha, Me too!! XD“And if you don't spend every second outdoors, people think there's someting wrong with you.” i know, Right?
It's been mentioned before, but the characters learn nothing, and feature no real character development.
I suppose there's an accurate depiction of middle school life contained in the sparse prose, but the actions and words of the characters don't offer any sort of insight on it.
I suppose it would be a mildly funny book, if I was 12, but even given the conceit of the audience, the laughs still seem forced.Apparently I'm in the minority, but I'd say this is a definite skip.
We thumbed through it, and thought it looked cute, so we purchased it, and read it together.
Its narrated by this middle-school aged kid in the form of a diary, with sketches and doodles included on every page, and basically follows his days from the begining of the school year to the end.
But there were times we also both looked at each other and shook our heads..
as the wimpy kid in question did some very mean and backhanded things as well....Very cute, very interesting, and well worth the read for any school age kid and his parents....We are going to run out to buy the new sequel....
Edited to add:I'm reading a lot of reviews that downgrade the book for the fact that Greg doesn't learn any lessons or redeeming values...
One thing that i remember HATING as a kid in school was when lit teachers used to make us analyze every thing a character did to see the symbolism the author was trying to portray.
Middle school kids are often all the things in this book, shy, awkward, selfish, lazy, and ruthless.
Nothing is more alienating than reading about a kid your age who always has the lesson learned and the happy ending.
I find this whole series depressing.
Sure, there are funny moments - I even laughed out loud once or twice, seriously - but the fact of the matter is, Greg is so completely devoid of any kind of human feeling or understanding of other people that I'm beginning to suspect he's some kind of clinical narcissist.
He blames everyone else for his problems; he doesn't care about anyone.
He doesn't grow, he doesn't learn, he doesn't change (does he even age?
He's still in junior high after four books?
I know one is set in summertime, but still).
Very disappointing.
في كتب كتيرة اوي تستغرب انها موجودة في قائمة البستسيلر او الكتب الاكثر مبيعا على مستوى العالم وتيجي 
it was an awsome and very funny book it got the laughes right out of me
When I told my friend I was reading 'Diary of a Wimpy Kid', she said only one thing "What are you... 12"? If enjoying reading this book makes me 12, so be it. I liked this book. Its funny, a very quick read, unique and very cute. Worth a read for anyone who has a child living inside them.
My first Wimpy Kid and is surely not the last. Who knew this Wimpy Kid would be playing with my head for such a long time.
Diary of a wimpy kid: Greg Heffley's journal (#1), c2007, Jeff KinneyDiary of a Wimpy Kid is a satirical realistic fiction comedy novel for children and teenagers written and illustrated by Jeff Kinney. It is the first book in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series. The book is about a boy named Greg Heffley and his struggles to fit in as he begins middle school.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیستم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: خاطرات یک بی عرضه: دفترچه قرمز خاطرات؛ نویسنده و تصویرگر: جف کینی؛ مترجم: ندا شادن
The book is about a boy named Greg Heffley and his struggles to fit in as he begins middle school.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیستم ماه سپتامبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: خاطرات یک بی عرضه: دفترچه قرمز خاطرات؛ نویسنده و تصویرگر: جف کینی؛ مترجم: ندا شادنظر؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ایران بان: نشر قطره، 1389، جلد یک در ؟؟ ص، مصور، اندازه 5/14 در 5/19 س.م، شابک جلد 1: 9789642980802؛ شابک دوره: 9789642980444؛ چاپ سوم جلد 1 در تابستان 1390، گروه سنی ب و ج، موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی مصور، دفترچه های خاطرات، مدرسه ها، داستانجلد نخست / دفترچه قرمز / خاطرات گرگ هفلی بچه بودن واقعا بد است.
Haven't actually read this, am writing the review for my grandson.
It could be a four.He's read this one and the next in the series.
"Oh so that's what a comic book is!", he said.I mentioned that there were some rather large words in it (just glancing) and that he might not be able to read it quite yet."I think if I can read two Wimpy Kid books I can probably read anything, Pop-Pop."That's a positive outlook I guess..
.Previous review: Invitation to the DanceNext review: War and PeaceRecent review: Robert Frost: Critical EssaysPrevious library review: Animalia ABCs for all agesNext library review: Wimpy Kid #12 : The Getaway

به نظرم از آن دست کتابهایی است که ردهی سنی ندارد. تجربهاش حسی شبیه خواندن نیکولاکوچولوی سامپه و گوسینی راداشت با همان تصاویر جذاب و طنز شیرین دوران کودکی و نوجوانیبرخلاف تصاویر کتاب نیکولا کوچولو که به نظر میرسد تصاویر حالت تزیینی برای متن دارند در این کتاب تصاویر کامل کنندهی متن هستند و بدون آنها داستان ناقص میشودجزییات طنز روایتها و انسجام داستانیاش را دوست داشتم بیشتر کتاب را توی مترو خواندم و گاهی بلند بلند میخندیدم :)این کتاب را چند نفر دیگر هم با نام های مختلف ترجمه کردهاند اما در یک مقای

There! I added it! Happy now, Nahuy Banana Girl DouDou? (stop changing your name! D:)~edit~ I don't see why this book is so popular. I zoomed through it in less than an hour and thought it was boring and immature. It has a biased idea of middle school life and I didn't find it funny at all, which it was obviously trying to be. Oh, and sheer amount of clichés made me want to gag.
I really kind of did not....Love this book its like about telling u about Greg's school. But the "cheese touch thing is a BIG part of the story you should really read that part.
Greg Heffley is a 6th-grade weakling trying to make his mark in the middle school world.
His best friend is Rowley, another odd 6th-grader with overprotective parents and the world-class ability to annoy.
His parents ground him from his video games, his older brother picks on him, his little brother gets him in trouble, and the girls in his school think he is a waste of their time.
Kinney bills his books as "a novel in cartoons," which is sure to be a popular feature with middle grade readers, especially those of the reluctant variety.
A funny, interesting and highly entertaining book.
I read it after my nine year old brother did -by the way, he loved it- and i had an amazing time.The cartoon style of this novel, is amusing and an element that makes quite an impression.
To be honest though i have to point out that some of the situations make the reader believe the hero is of younger age.
But beside that i think it's a fine choise for any boy to read.All in all, it's enjoyable, with a quick tempo and the author doesn't drag the stories for long.
أيام المدرسة لها طعم مختلف .......اشارككم بعض من مذكراتي المدرسية ......كل مدرسة لدينا تتبع فكر مديرها و مديرتنا كانت من أحفاد الإمام يحيى بن حميد الدين فعنوان المدرسة التربية لا تكون إلا بشدة عااااااااادي كان في هروب من الحصص  ..........الجو شديد البرودة و كان ممنوع علينا لبس المعطف أو الجاكيت في زمني أما الآن تغير الوضع كنا نقف في الطابور فقط لكي نتحدث و نحكي القصص و نكمل المذاكرة و لكن بطريقة شفوية الطالبة التي لم تكن تلتزم بمعايير الزي تحبس في مكان له رائحة الأغنام والله و المعايير حجاب أبيض
..........الجو شديد البرودة و كان ممنوع علينا لبس المعطف أو الجاكيت في زمني أما الآن تغير الوضع كنا نقف في الطابور فقط لكي نتحدث و نحكي القصص و نكمل المذاكرة و لكن بطريقة شفوية الطالبة التي لم تكن تلتزم بمعايير الزي تحبس في مكان له رائحة الأغنام والله و المعايير حجاب أبيض شديد البياض قص الأظافر الزي لونه كحلي درجة معينة الحذاء لون غامق اللبس الذي يلبس تحت الزي من بنطال يجب أن يكون لونه غامق الجوارب بيضاء و الحقيبة المدرسية لونها غامق 
..........يتم توزيع بطائق معينة علينا تسمح لحاملها دخول الفصل وقت الطابور المدرسي من أجل تنظيف الفصل و كنسة و مسحه 
Kids of the targeted age group will identify with Greg and all of the middle-school issues he has to deal with, like popularity, little siblings, PE and girls.
I don't think this review keys into exactly how funny this book is, as it had me and my kids rolling.VOYAEven though Greg Heffley would rather play video games with his friend Rowley than write in the journal that his mother gives him, he uses it to record, in pictures and in text, the harrowing and clever ways in which he navigates the middle school social scene.
من یک خواهرزاده دارم که عاشق این مجموعه است و هر جلدش رو بارها خونده. فکر نمیکردم من بخونمش و به نظرم خوب بیاد، ولی واقعا خوب بود. چندین بار تونست منو به خنده بندازه که یک بار توی مترو بودم و آدمای دور و برم جوری بهم نگاه میکردن انگار که دیوونهام :)))طنز کتاب خوبه، شخصیتهای داستان بامزهان و در کل کتاب جالبیه. بقیه جلدهای مجموعه رو هم به مرور میخونم
من یک خواهرزاده‌ دارم که عاشق این مجموعه است و هر جلدش رو بارها خونده. فکر نمی‌کردم من بخونمش و به نظرم خوب بیاد، ولی واقعا خوب بود. چندین بار تونست منو به خنده بندازه که یک بار توی مترو بودم و آدمای دور و برم جوری بهم نگاه می‌کردن انگار که دیوونه‌ام :)))طنز کتاب خوبه، شخصیت‌های داستان بامزه‌ان و در کل کتاب جالبیه. بقیه جلدهای مجموعه رو هم به مرور می‌خونم
Due to a Jeff Kinney visit to my local book store, I read Diary of A Wimpy Kid Hard Luck--and found it delightful.
This first book of the series, in contrast, could be called Diary of a Sociopathic Kid. The Greg Heffley of this book exhibits, frequently, sociopathic or antisocial personality disorder, behavior.
allows Rowley to take the punishment for Greg's terrorizing of the kindergarteners AND takes the ice cream date his mom gives him as a reward for "doing the right thing" ; 16.
So, when my mother asked what my more reluctant reader would like for his birthday I told her about this book, the wimpy kid diary, the book that keeps the ditch digger, bee buzzing, Tarzan yelling freckledy faced creature eerily quiet.
My mother wouldn't buy the second book in this series for my son's birthday even though he loved this first one and read for an hour at a time without prompting or realizing that those urges to sit still were increasing at an alarming rate.
So, this is me, reading for the rematch, relieved that I loved it as much as my son did, and readying my defense.
I know everyone seems to love this book, but it left me with a resounding "meh." Maybe it's because my own middle school experiences were so unpleasant that I have no desire to revisit them, even vicariously, but I think it's mostly because I didn't find the main character to be particularly interesting, or even worth my time.
Protagonists aren't required to be likable, but they should have some noticeable character arc, and this kid just doesn't...
he's the same waste of space at the end that he was at the beginning.
meh.Ps: I feel so cool writing a one-word-review. Yaay!
A ton of boys in my 5th grade class are reading it.
Todd laughed out loud frequently, and then went back and asked Graham if he thought it was funny, too.
Todd, however, can look back on middle school with some perspective and laugh more!The thing that made me only give it only 2 stars was that, for the audience it is targeting, it is just WAY too simplistic.
snob, but I think it is possible to write engaging books for the preeteen audience at a level that will require higher than a first grade reading skills.
