https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21681.Darkness_Take_My_Hand
Not that it's always a good thing, this book crept even my non-feeling ass out.Kenzie and Angie take a simple case where a psychiatrist thinks she has made a mob family angry.
Now she feels that her son is being targeted so she wants my heroes to follow up with the mob guys to see if they will play nice.I really wasn't in the mood to play cute with a bunch of cut-rate psychopaths who'd seen The Godfather too many times and thought they were respectable.
I'm trying to forget what ever happened in one part of this book Bubba, cause you the man and all.
Bubba, the one-man army who cares for no one but Patrick and Angie, has a much more significant role which involves a fire hydrant and a bowling alley.
Patrick now has a steady girlfriend, his friendship with Angie deepens, and we learn more about his abusive father.
Angie and Patrick are hired by a psychiatrist who received a picture of her son in the mail from a stranger and now believes her son is in danger.
I ran screaming down the hall and into this big dude who looked like Bubba.
He didn’t believe me and wanted me to take him to my office.
Dennis Lehane - image from The-Talks.com PIs Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro are drawn into a malestron of violence and danger after a shrink passes along a dark tale of stalking and murder reported by a patient.
When the patient's son is threatened the game is afoot.
Ultra violence permeates.
Dark and evil with a taste for cruelty almost kills the team and many around them.
Although it retains his humorous touch, this is a darker read than Lehane's first.=============================EXTRA STUFFLinks to the author’s personal, Twitter and FB pagesOther books by Lehane I have read/reviewedKenzie and Gennaro-----A Drink Before the War - #1-----Sacred #3-----Gone, Baby Gone #4-----Prayers for Rain #5-----Moonlight Mile #6The Coughlin series-----The Given Day - #1-----Live By Night - #2-----Live By Night - #3
Angie is finally divorcing her alcoholic, wife-beating husband Phil and Patrick's in a relationship with a doctor named Grace and acting as a father for her two-year old, Mae. Then things start going pear-shaped when it appears a pair of serial killers is at work.Much like Lawrence Block's marvelous Matthew Scudder series, the things that makes Kenzie and Gennaro stand out are the well-realized setting and the characters.
Patrick and Angie are a lot more scratched and dented than they were when the series started and I'm only two books in.The villains were suitably vile but not cartoonishly so, not even for serial killers.
Scary serial killer stuff. Private detectives Kenzie and Genaro are likable, the killers are weird and memorable (although I must confess I'm weary of serial killers), and the Boston atmosphere is very authentic. Second in a series.
It gives you a nasty feeling of dread as you read the rest of the book and what unfolds is probably worse than what you start fearing when you read Patrick’s introduction.Leading up to that, Patrick and Angie take a case from a female psychiatrist who had a session with a women who claimed to be in abusive relationship with a psycho Irish-mob hitman that the two detectives know from their childhood in their blue-collar Boston neighborhood.
Having to try and get a sadistic mob hitman to leave someone alone is bad enough, but things quickly take an even darker turn that involves a brutal murder and a serial killer who has been in prison for years.
Tell me, what are all-time favorites made of? Perhaps we all have a different definition for them, but mine? I read so much that a great, even amazing book can get sidelined if it doesn't leave a mark on me. On the contrary, a flawed one can earn its stripes if the emotions it makes me feel are unforgettable. I'd say that if there were one lesson to be learnt from this experience, is that Darkness, Take My Hand will linger. Oh, yes, it will.  a fucked-up male lead I grew to adore and for whom I
➊ a fucked-up male lead I grew to adore and for whom I care so much it hurts : multi-layered, morally ambiguous, sarcastic, wounded, loyal - he's everything I want in my favorite characters.
➍ Secondary characters I'm not supposed to like but...
It didn't prevent me from enjoying the book, not really, but it did annihilate a great part of the intended shock factor, and for a moment there I thought that it would cost it its fifth star.
But the fact is, Darkness, Take My Hand deserves its 5 stars nonetheless, because of the impact this book had on me.
In this book Patrick has started a relationship with Grace, a young doctor with a daughter, and Angie has divorced Phil.
But they never imagine what the case will do to their life...This book grabbed a hold of me from the beginning and kept its hold until the end.
It’s strange when I’m really into a book, then I don’t know what to write, but when a book is bad, then I have a lot to write.
A part of me is still so taken with the story that I’m having trouble leaving Kenzie & Gennaro's world behind and move on to another book.
So she asks Kenzie and Gennaro to look out for her son.
One of the shocking thing about the disappeared client was her surname, which was "Krnzie." Once Patrick and Angie start investigations, things gets messier, nastier and bloodier with each passing day.While Kenzie and Gennaro were brave in the first book, we get to see a different side of them here.
They did fight till the very end but they didn't come unscathed this time.
Bubba, the psychopath who won't blink an eye while killing you if he think that you're a danger to Kenzie and Gennaro.
"Eviscerate them, Patrick. Kill them all."   I can't say that I went into this book series knowing what I was going to be reading. I also can't say that it was what I would expect it to be. Thought provoking, beautiful writing is a high point in this series, and I'm ashamed to admit I was shocked that that was the case. From page one of book one, I have been enamored with the depth of these stories and the amazing writing that pulls you in whether you want to be sucked in or not....but maybe m
From page one of book one, I have been enamored with the depth of these stories and the amazing writing that pulls you in whether you want to be sucked in or not....but maybe my largest praise goes to how Lehane gets base emotions out of me that rarely are touched in crime/thriller novels: Protectiveness, heart-break....fear.
Now, while I did love Angie in this one, I still can't see why Patrick is head over heels for her-or so the story boasts from time to time.
Hot on the heels of finishing  A Drink Before the War , I felt ready for another dose of Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro in my life. Actually, rave reviews for this second volume In Dennis Lehane's detective duo series were what lead me to read the first. After all, what girl can resist a promise of serial murders and Boston days of yore? Not this one. The case starts off simply enough, a psychiatrist receives a photograph of her son and a menacing phone call, possibly Mafia associated, and Pa
, I felt ready for another dose of Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro in my life.
Actually, rave reviews for this second volume In Dennis Lehane's detective duo series were what lead me to read the first.
trope was laid on so thick that my thoughts went not to Anthony Hopkins, but to 
, the serial TP'er Officer Barbrady confronts in an episode of South Park.
But, as the strands of the story unfurl I couldn't help but to completely fall into the story, tropes and all.
While this certainly felt more like a 
Looks like I'm in this series for the long-haul.
I read this book to fill the Set in New England square on my  2016 Halloween Book Bingo card.Wow, this was gritty and dark.
And the two investigators, Patrick and Angela, not only share this background but have stuck around & continued to work in it.I missed the first book and truthfully I don’t know that I will read another in the series.
I finished it shortly before bedtime and must confess that it spawned a series of unsettling dreams overnight.As the book starts, it seems like our two investigators are getting their lives in order.
Then they are offered what seems like a simple job, surveillance of a college boy.
I don't know what to say, except, maybe...Now this is a read, motherfuckers.
Or a nice spork in the eye.Anyway, I don't often get that ohmigawdIhavetodonothingbutreaduntilIfindoutwhathaaaapeeeens feeling, but I got it here.
It's such a nice feeling.
Makes me so happy to be a reader.Love the characters, especially Angie who isn't just another chick that needs saving or sexualizing, and Bubba, my favorite psychopath.
*shivers*Thanks to my local library I've already got the third ebook, Sacred, and I didn't even have to put pants on to do it.
Damn, I love the library.
A young woman had come in for a counseling session regarding her abusive boyfriend.
The identity of the boyfriend shocks Pat and Angie.
They grew up with Kevin Hurlihy who is, yes, a certified psychotic currently working as muscle in the local criminal underworld, but this just wasn't his style.
Though now that the girlfriend's gone missing...And Lehane is off once more, launching like an urban rocket into the gripping case of a serial killer who invites our PIs out to play.
This evil force, forever a blood-drenched step ahead, contents itself with methodically ripping their lives apart as it works to settle an ancient score.
Psycho Secrets in South Boston BadlandsThis was my first Lehane PI novel, a psychological suspense that drew me in with an intriguing and plausible plot, in which the gritty characters were developed well enough for me to connect with them.
I found the story gripping as it threw me into a harbor of bad blood, mobsters and psychos in South Boston (Southie).I wanted to read more, then more, until I got to the point that I felt I MUST just finish the dang book even if I had to stay up all night to do it.
Yeah, all of the good detectives, all good people and you and me, come across this in our lives, and the pain never really goes away.And one of our inner voices tried to assuage the guilt we feel, and the lies we tell ourselves:“Angie was right.
* Facepalm *  (hide spoiler)] Very exciting action but could have been set up so much better.The final action scene is a bit overlong, but not bad.
And unlike for Bosch or Spenser, I feel far more often "manipulated" by Lehane here.All-in-all, great pacing mostly, good character development mostly, good action scenes mostly, and five stars mostly = 4-stars.Far, far better than book #1 with it's dull second half.
Only, you know, good.It might seem churlish of me to criticise a 510 page book that I finished (and enjoyed) in record breaking time as being too populist to be truly great but the fact of the matter is that this series jumped from what I might consider hard-boiled and noir in to thriller territory marked for mass consumption by people who prefer their font to be on the larger size in the space of one book.I complained in my review of book 1 that Lehane drifted far too close to Patterson and Grisham territory but managed to save himself by using his knowledge of the hard-boiled and noir genre to great effect but in this case he seems to have dropped all pretence and struck out in to unit shifting territory with reckless abandon.Kenzie & Gennaro, the pair of lovable hard-boiled private eyes from A Drink Before the War are back and this time they are on the hunt of (and hunted by) a serial killer.
a better late than never, mini REALLY mini-reviewRating, 4.5(City Hunter posters remind me of Patrick and Ange)The second installment in the Kenzie & Gennaro series grabbed me from the first page.
Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro take a new case.
How is it that an imprisoned psychopath knows so much about them?
Oh, did I mention there are clowns involved?
I hate clowns, they give me nightmares.It was a great ride.
My only peeve is that i guessed who the villain was somewhere at 60% into the story.
It's hard to enjoy completely a mystery/thriller when you know more than those investigating the crime.
Lehane simply refuses to give Patrick and Angela even the slightest break following the events of the last novel before shoving them through a proverbial thresher of violence.The way in which Darkness, Take My Hand unfolds is what I love about crime fiction.
These characters raise the stakes and make the reader question Kenzie and Gennaro’s true intentions throughout the story.Seeing that the series is only six books long (pretty short for a modern detective saga), I wonder just how run down and beaten Lehane plans to leave Patrick and Angela when all the dust settles.
I mean there are serial killers roaming around for a number of years going undetected, mafia folk doing what mafia folk do (making people swim with the fishes), psychotic friends who like to use fire hydrants as a beating tool, and two private eye’s who are trying to figure out the whole sorry mess.But that is just the tip of the iceberg; this was another excellent read in the series that is fast getting a lot of my attention, praise and thrusting onto friends and colleagues with me demanding they read this and read it quick.
I call this gut-dynamic “scary”.From my review of: A Drink Before the War (Kenzie & Gennaro #1):(This novel) is written in a relatively light-weight style but doesn't break the boundaries of serious dialogue when the story requires it.
Good PI story with tolerable levels of violence and death.Compared to K&G #1, “A Drink before the War” (see above review extract), Lehane has significantly developed the main protagonists, Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro in K&G #2, "Darkness, Take My Hand".
Usually that would be a show stopper for me, because serial killers do not fascinate me at all, especially the Mensa type that seem to overpopulate thrillers.
Lehane's serial killer does spout some spooky stupid mumbo jumbo, but by the time I got to it, I didn't give a hoot.This is Lehane's second novel.
His detectives, Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro, remain interesting, most of the time (I skim read some of the "romance", sorry).
Despite elements that should make you gag, like the serial killer and Bubba, Lehane pulled it off.
Gosto de ler palavras e frases que me envolvam na história e me criem empatia com as personagens, de uma forma tão intensa que me levem a imaginar ser, simultaneamente, vítima e carrasco e a sentir com eles: dor, medo, tristeza, angústia, prazer, loucura,…2.
Gosto quando um livro é de tal forma angustiante que me obriga a fechá-lo para poder respirar… Com este, fi-lo várias vezes.Denis Lehane é um mestre na narrativa e na criação de personagens e enredos.“A Caminho das Trevas” contém todos os ingredientes de um Excelente policial."A maior parte dos homens e mulheres vivem a sua vida sem se distinguirem.
His characters are real and raw, and he lays down some hard truths, while still being able to write witty banter between the characters.However I didn't enjoy this book as much as some of his others, although I can't quite put a finger on WHY.It was pretty dark.
I'll admit I thought I had it figured out before Patrick, but it turns out I was wrong, which is good because I hate books that are predictable.It could be that this is the first time I've picked up an audiobook in quite a while, and I feel like the narrator did a great job at creeping me out.
Slow start but well made up for it at around the 40% mark. The inmate character was used just at the right dose. I will read again from this author!
A brief history...I saw and enjoyed the movie Gone baby gone then found out it was based on a book then found out it was a series of books then promptly forgot about them.
Later I read this particular book was quite suspenseful and nasty then promptly forgot about it and, well, here we are....I'll admit, while I waa enjoying the book the first two hundred or so pages where not particularly suspenseful or nasty then the book shifted into high gear and gave way to a great story of tracking a couple of nasty serial killers.
What I enjoyed most was the morality involved, or the lack of it, sometimes bad people deserve retribution on a massive scale!
Until I read this book I forgot how much I loved Dennis Lehane's writing.
This was an older book but was chosen for my book club and I'm so glad since it renewed my interest in reading his book and I have read most of them although I had not read this one.
this was a really good mystery with excellent characters.
The two main characters were wonderful and you really liked them and cared about them.
Many of the others were very good too.
You were totally into this small part of Boston.
They are excellent.
He writes a great mystery.
It also was short, but the flow worked a lot more in this one, so I didn't notice the length of the book until I got to the end.
When a girl they grew up with winds up died (crucified) Patrick and Angie start to put the pieces together and realize that their first case and this recent death are connected.
Having only just Patrick's point of view really does hamper these books because we only can "read" his thoughts on her and what she's feeling or we have the character telling Patrick what she's feeling.
When I realized the connection between Patrick and someone close to Angie I pretty much rolled my eyes.
Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro - hired by Boston Psychiatrist, Diandra Warren to protect her son, Jason.
Murders found lead to a "serial killer" - her patient recently released from prison after 20 years - you find he's killing again?
The Boston Mafia does become involve.
His murders are graphic & fights with Kenzie/Gennaro are life threatening.
How can he be stopped?Difficult to finish...many characters & they do not flow as easy as in other of his books.....But being from Boston the historical landmarks & streets are nice when your familiar with them.
Boston's Historical Old South Meeting House.
For the Boston Tea Party in 1773.
The second of Lehane's Kenzie/Gennaro books, it's a wholly original take on the private detective genre that isn't afraid to go dark, either in the crimes being committed or the lengths the main characters will go to in order to solve them.I think what I find most impressive about this series (I've read the first two after beginning with the fourth, Gone Baby Gone) is how the setting lends the story credibility.
This is especially true of the plot of Darkness, Take My Hand, where Kenzie and Gennaro have to solve a particularly brutal series of murders that seem increasingly to be tied to the characters' shared past.
