https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542883.The_Able_McLaughlins
The rest of the novel is about the effect Chirstie's secret has not only on her and Wully, but on the entire community.This is a simple, highly accessible novel.
Wilson's depiction of life on the prairie owes a lot to Willa Cather, and while the characters aren't nearly as complex and interesting as those seen in Cather's work, Wilson clearly loves them, and does a great job celebrating the simple life they lead.Ultimately, this is a book in praise of everything good that humanity has to offer.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1924, but is about a Scottish community in the Midwest in the 1870's. Though Wilson's flowery prose made me lose interest at times, I loved how she lingered sentimentally over all of her characters. And how she interspersed glimpses of the future into the story. She handles a horrific and tragic prairie rape with unflinching attention to the emotions of all who are touched by it. And presents a complete portrait of this community and its culture. I really loved this book.
The heartache of ten kids in a one-room cabin and endless days of back-breaking labor are offset by the beauty of the prairies and the love the families share and the joy of freedom and possibility.
There is a love story at the heart of the book, but my favorite passage involved a prairie woman who passed on cuttings from her peonies.
Lonely women carrying a bit of color close to their hearts into this foreign land; she held it high as they crossed an unbridged river so it wouldn't get wet.
What a beautiful story of strong women.
While I would say that this Pulitzer winner is mediocre writing, I can also say that I liked the story.
What I'm really appreciating about my project of reading all the Pulitzer fiction winners is that I'm getting an interesting view of what stories resonated in the American consciousness at certain times in the history of fiction writing over the past 100 years.
Life was so parochial and provincial.
Anyway, this novel is a part of that body of literature that contributes to these parochial snapshots of mid-19th century life in the US.
This book has great characters and great descriptions of the setting of the novel. I love the opening sentence of the book. The book is set in Iowa during pioneer days and gives a good view of what life was like at that time. A refreshing read as it is devoid of edgy elements that writers seem to think must be included in today's novels.
I really liked this, and couldn't put it down. I don't know why, but I am really feeling it with the turn of the century literature these days! I found this a very pleasant Pulitzer to work through, and thought the setting was brilliantly done. I loved the wheat. I also really enjoyed having the original first edition, which was sent from a library in Tallahassee. The book was the perfect size, and had absurdly thick pages, and came by its 100 years of old book scent honestly. It was a rare treat.
Although I enjoyed this short novel, it did not seem like the type of book that would be awarded a Pulitzer.
This is the story of a young soldier who returns to his Iowa farming family and the girl he loves.
I appreciated how far ahead of its time it seemed to be in describing a family responding to a victim of rape.
I was disappointed that the author did not capture the Scottish dialect.
At one point, a younger brother being educated in Chicago criticizes the family for a speech that is neither English nor Scottish.
I read that there was actually a sequel written to this book called The Law and the McLaughlins, but from what I can tell on Wikipedia, it doesn’t actually address any of the little insights into the future that Wilson peppered into this story.Second, this story was summarized as a “love story between Chirstie and Wully” but there was no palpable chemistry between the two.
In this way, this book reminded me of Booth Tarkington’s The Magnificent Ambersons, which I recommended reading for the wit, and not the characters or plot.
I loved this book. I started to read it and found myself having a hard time putting it down. It was really descriptive of what the Civil War and the aftermath for one family was like. I liked the fact that Wully didn't let what happened to Christie stop him from loving, marrying and caring for her and her son. Wully tried his hardest to care for her and I believe he was successful in the end.
1924.....Hmmm. Virginia Woolf was writing at this time. Americans Fitzgerald,Hemmingway, Faulkner hmmmm....and this was the best the US could choose??? Sweet story.
This is an intriguing story that takes readers back to the civil war and a strange situation when Wully McLaughlin returns from the war and finds the woman he loved pregnant with another man’s child. I think stories like this are fascinating.
Nomadic SA Chick's Book ReviewsSummaryWully is in love with Christie, but doesn't realize it he's about tp return to the fight in the Civil War. Wully promises Christie that as soon as he returns they will get married and start their lives together.
This does not matter to Wully, he loves Christie unconditionally, and follows through with his promise, even if it means taking credit for Christie's baby and shaming his family's name.ReviewI had to talk myself into picking this book up.
Wilson decorates the pages with beautiful and heart-felt prose that make your heart ache for Christie and fall in love with Wully for being such a good human.
She seems to want to draw some kind of link between this story of the sprawling McLaughlin clan in the 1870s and the world she herself knows in the early 1920s, but this is only suggested in odd paragraphs that interrupt the first few chapters and discuss a future relationship between one of Wully's brothers (Andrew) and the heirs of the man who drives Wully home during his leave from the war.
Still, Wilson tells her story of the Scottish community with great effect.
Her dialogue feels authentic and the characters, while uncomplicated, are warmly drawn.[return][return]While the story is ostensibly about Wullie and Chirstie, Wullie s mother Isobel is a powerful figure a tower of strength with a vast capacity for compassion.[return][return]The resolution of the story is the weakest part, but it still leaves the reader more or less satisfied with its resonance to Wullie s experiences during the Civil War.[return][return]A good book that illuminates the lives of hard-working Scots immigrant farmers in the 19th century.
Especially because they often seem to be set in the past, and it can be very interesting to see what the past (in this case, 1924) thought about the past past (in this case, prairie life around the end of the Civil War).
This book is a simple story, simply told, with a surprisingly thoughtful ending and a bit of an interesting glimpse into the frontier prairie life.
It has an old-fashioned feel to its phrasing and isn't particularly literary or heavy; it goes quickly and draws you into the life of the two-main-characters couple.
After seeking out and purchasing a rather pricey used copy (because not a single edition was to be found within my entire inter-library loan system) it only made sense to give it every opportunity to prove itself.
The writing was so awkward and choppy and the characters acted inconsistently enough that I found it difficult to conceive how it won the 1924 Pulitzer for fiction.
If you have an opportunity to read it and don't mind spending your time on a mildly interesting story and mediocre writing it's possible it might be worth the effort but I'd avoid going to a lot of trouble to put your hands on it.
From 1915, the account of a Scottish immigrant family settling in Iowa when it was still the frontier. Not sure why I never heard of this book or this author, but I thought this was surprising. It was easy to read, had strong characters (especially strong female characters, for the time period), represents a historical moment. It might not be strong on lists because it is more realist/naturalist, when the novel form is shifting to modernism. But I would gladly assign this over "The Octopus" or any Steinbeck...
The characters are lovable, funny, and enduring. The book is a drama - a young man promptly marries his pregnant sweetheart (there's more to it) to save her from the shame of a shotgun wedding and spare her from the scorn of her neighbors - but the focus is much more centered on this community of immigrants, their mannerisms, and how they all get along. It’s the relationships of the people involved that bring this story to life and give it its sharp comic edge. I enjoyed it very much.
A nice gentle story about a man returning to his family after the Civil War that won the Pulitzer Prize in 1924. Not a heavy book, like many Pulitzer novels are... more like Little House on the Prairie for grownups. Enjoyable if you can find it, but the book is scarce. I couldn't even find a copy at Powell's, wound up borrowing it from the library.
I may be weird, but I loved this book!! It was definitely a different kind of writing style than we are used to, but kind of reminded me of Conrad Richter (who I happen to really like!). I thought that Wully and Cristie learned and grew so much together as they were married and I loved how they changed by the end of the story. And the mother-in-law figure is sooo fantastic. loved it!
A great story! I love when good conquers evil and when love conquers all! Great characters!
The main character had married a woman who had suffered her cousin raping her.
The marriage was done quickly because he wanted people to think that the child, the product of the rape, was his child.
The book ends with the woman unable to look at or stand the presence of her rapist, but her husband decides that the man should be forgiven because the main character had the joy of his wife's and child's love.
Literally, he forgives the rapist in his heart, and the author writes, "The End".
Clearly, the woman should have been the focus of the story and her path to forgiveness or refusal.
Set in the Midwest just as the Civil War is ending, the novel introduces a community of Scottish Presbyterian farmers through the eyes of a stranger: a soldier who has accompanied Wully McLaughlin back from the War. In the course of reestablishing himself in his hometown, Wully meets an old childhood acquaintance, Chirstie, and falls in love.
The rest of the story focusses on Wully’s reaction when he discovers the problem - from his willingness to sacrifice his own reputation for that of the woman he loves to his struggles with the temptation to take the ultimate vengeance.
A very enjoyable, easy read about two young people, Wullie and Chirstie, who fall in love.
Set in the 1860s in a Scottish community in Iowa, Wullie comes back from the civil war to find Chirstie has been raped and is pregnant.
He decides to marry her, claiming the baby as his own and keeping Chirstie's rape a secret.
I liked Chirstie's step mother, Barbara McNair, enjoying her battle with her husband to have a house built that was a little better than Wullie's house!
It's a sweet story with likeable characters and an interesting plot.
It's a well told, simply written, entertaining story.
As this was a Pulitzer Prize winning novel in 1924, I believed it would be a quality read, if somewhat tame by today's standards.
The historical background of Civil War times in the Midwest was interesting, The viewpoints of the immigrant settlers of this previously unfarmed land were of particular interest to me.
The day to day life of a Union soldier returning to his family of origin was depicted in this novel published around 60 years after the end of this bloody war.
The power of forgiveness was an essential element of the author's motivation in writing this book about such a harrowing time in the US.
Well written for the most part. The first page verged on poetic verse and I was hoping that this would continue throughout the book but it was fairly inconsistent after that, which was disappointing. The story is about a Civil War soldier returning to find his girlfriend is pregnant by another man and so he marries her to protect her dignity and all of the drama that follows.
A Pulitzer Prize winner for 1924. Excellent for its writing, for description of the unbroken plains and of the people who emigrated from Scotland to settle here. The plot is an unusual love story, but also a story of forgiveness. It is a glimpse of a thriving plains family and community at the turn of the 20th century.
The Able McLaughlins by Margaret Wilson, is yet another great read from my journey through all the Pulitzer Prize winning novels. I loved Wilson’s descriptive writing and intimate portrayal of the characters. The end of the novel is especially gripping, as the main characters struggle with forgiveness and redemption.
Pultizer winner from the 1920's which characterizes well but dwells on harsh and tedious episodes in this family's life, which of course is harsh and tedious. Would have liked more depth, less repetition.
Good story with some strong female characters. The characters don't have much depth, but they were relatable. Wilson's descriptions of farming life at that time was enlightening. As was her portrayal of the immigrant experience in the mid 19th centuryI found the book engaging and approachable. The story touched on issues of rape, shame, vengeance, and forgiveness in ways I wasn't expecting.
