https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25817493-news-of-the-world
Every once in a while a character comes along that leaves that indelible mark on my heart that will make me think about them for a long time and think that if this were a real person, I'd want them in my life.
A widower with two grown daughters, this is his life until he takes on the challenge of escorting ten year old Johanna to her surviving relatives 600 miles away.
I held my breath at times , cried and laughed as it becomes a journey of the heart.
I really don't want to say much more because I urge you to read this beautiful story yourself.
The Latest News and Articles from the Major Journals Of The Civilized Word Captain Jefferson Kyle Kidd Will Read a Compendium From Selected Newspapers At 8: 00 P.M. At The Broadway Playhouse Captain Jefferson Kyle Kidd is in his early 70s. He sports a shock of white hair as evidence, but possesses a commanding stature and presence that make him seem years younger. Kidd makes a living as an itinerant newsreader. He visits places far removed from civilization, in this instance northern Texas, and
The Latest News and Articles from the Major Journals Of The Civilized Word Captain Jefferson Kyle Kidd Will Read a Compendium From Selected Newspapers At 8: 00 P.M. At The Broadway Playhouse
Britt took care of the obtaining part, but a black man transporting a young white girl to southern Texas, where the end of slavery was not entirely accepted, seemed a risk too far.
Jiles offers a compelling look at the challenges faced by the invading whites (hostile locals, for one), without turning a blind eye to the challenges faced by the dispossessed people.
A veteran of three wars, he uses both his position as a war hero and Texas' isolation from the rest of the country to travel around the state giving readings of the News of the World.
Additionally, through Kidd's readings and their encounters on the road, we are given the important news stories of the time, allowing this story to contain a larger historical framework.
Although Jiles may be a new author for me, she has written other novels and a memoir, mainly about post Civil War Texas.
I have read many powerful novels which came out this year, and News of the World is in the upper echelon.
Try not to mourn the demise of Penelope and Amelia. "Iss the song and the sigh of the willy" and laff-ter is so good for the soul. Weather you measure time with a gold watch or the click, click, click sound of a broken wheel... Spend as much time as possible with someone that you love, someone that you trust, someone that you can trust with your love.And that's what Captain Kidd and Johanna the savage have done. If we are lucky, it all comes quickly between those people so deserving of it. May it be that way with you.

A young 10 year girl, Johanna, gets introduced to Captain Kidd, in Wichita Falls.Their relationship together - and their journey together is genuinely beautiful!The author, Paulette Jiles wrote this story with so much depth, and passion, it takes your breath away.
Captain Kidd, an aging war veteran - of several wars, sold his printing business in San Antonio, Texas, after his wife died, bought a horse to use as his transportation....then travels around the state of in Texas.
I worried for both Johanna and Captain Kidd, and not only because of the difficulty they faced, but emotionally.
I would never have read this book if it wasn't for one of my groups pick for a badge. I thought it was really sweet. The story of a man and a little girl. Bittersweet and brought a tear to my eye. A happy tear. Enough said. Mel 💕
Maybe life is just carrying news.
Maybe we have just one message, and it is delivered to us when we are born and we are never sure what it says; it may have nothing to do with us personally but it must be carried by hand through a life, all the way, and at the end handed over, sealed.
Great story, beautifully written, great characters, Captain Kidd ('Kep-dun'/Kontah) and the young girl Johanna, captured by the Kiowa Indians and freed, and their trip through the dangerous territories of US after the Civil War to return Johanna to her relatives, and being witness to the growing and loving bond between the old man and the young girl, it deserves a big 5 stars.
Much is revealed about the truly honorable character of the Captain as we read about his interactions with the various people he meets along the way and as he continues to deliver the news in order to earn a dime-a-head.News of the World is historical fiction at its finest.
but in a good way and solely due to the authors expertise in creating two wonderful characters with a unique relationship.
Johanna, wants only to be returned to her Indian tribe, her adopted Indian parents and remembers little about her early life.So they travel together, four hundred miles, and a relationship unlike any other is formed.
The Captain doubts the wisdom of returning Johanna, but he is an honorable man and this is his charged duty.
Just one of those fantastic stories that the reader can't help but take to heart and have a great time along the way.ARC from William Morrow publishers.
News of the World★★★★★ 5 Stars!*******************************************Once in a while readers of fiction can hope to experience this series of fortunate events:  A friend recommends a great book ➜ Your mindset happens to be ideal for said book ➜ You love the story = Literary bliss ensues!!   It is a little hard to admit that I almost allowed my preconceived expectations get in the way of discovering this remarkable novel. Let's just say that News Of The Word, a novel marketed as a "western",
But the quiet, solitary life the Captain has been living takes an unexpected turn when Britt Johnson, a free black man, asks him to deliver a 10-year-old white girl to her relatives in San Antonio.
Having been so young when this event took place, she has completely forgotten the English language and assimilated the dialect and customs of the tribe.The trip to San Antonio is a dangerous undertaking, as there are raids happening all over the country and plenty of travelers have lost their lives.
If you that have been listening to audio books for a while there's a good chance you've listened to something narrated by Grover Gardner.
Definitely 4.5 stars, maybe slightly more.Yeah, I'm late to the party on this one.I'm man enough to admit I didn't read this before now because I was misinformed. For some reason I mistakenly believed this book was another story which veered closely to  True Grit —you know, cantankerous old man becomes the protector of a young-but-tough girl, and hijinks and friendships ensue. Having read the book, and seen both versions of the film, and also read a pretender or two, I really wasn't enamored of
But such things cannot be, and when she is recaptured, it is decreed that she should be returned to her closest living relatives, an aunt and uncle near San Antonio.For 10-year-old Johanna, the only family she really knows are the Kiowa Indians who raised her, and she cannot understand why she has been taken away from them.
And if he doesn't deliver her to her aunt and uncle, does that make his as much a kidnapper as the Kiowa?I've really simplified the plot of this book, but it is such a lovely story.
The Civil War is just ending and Captain Jefferson Kidd is traveling through Texas reading the newspapers to people.
She had been taken by the Kiowa when she was six years old..so she is a tad bit wild to everyone's eyes.So begins the adventure of a road trip in a wagon across Texas.These characters.
Wow. Captain Kidd is the older cranky sort of man that is perfect in this type of book.
Then Joanna-full of spunk for a ten year old.
Her character is now one of my favorite children ever in a book.Their journey includes a "Ten cent shootout" that was perfection.
I am absolutely spent after reading this novel!NEWS OF THE WORLD by PAULETTE JILES was a uniquely written historical fiction novel that takes you on a 400-mile long adventurous and sometimes dangerous journey across the state of Texas in 1870 after the American Civil War.Reading this book via e-book THE COVER and TITLE did not come into play for me as it was chosen solely to be read on the recommendation of my sister, Brenda.
When the Captain asks why they do not themselves make the trip south and claim the reward money, he is given the explanation that a young white girl in the company of black men would invite more trouble than the promised gold.Thus begins a journey for the two lost souls – the elderly but dignified and still very capable Kidd and the young Johanna, who was taken from her German immigrant parents as they were killed by her captors and then four years later taken from this home.
Authors can get so caught up in the necessity of their own narratives, the takeaway—what they want the reader to learn and know about the world—forgetting that their only real task is to tell a good story.
When I read a novel as exquisitely crafted as Paulette Jiles' News of the World, I want to gently press it into these writers' hands and say, This.
The book's glorious simplicity is in the premise: it is 1870 and 71-year-old Captain Jefferson Kyle Kidd, a widower and veteran of two wars, makes his living as a news reader.
Setting-- Texas Territory just after the Civil War.Captain Jefferson Kyle Kidd is a veteran of 2 wars, now he makes his living traveling the small towns of the North Texas Territory reading the news of the world from the nations leading newspapers.
A white girl captured by the Kiowa Indians after they massacred her parents; she was 6 years old.
What transpires in this beautifully written book is the story of their journey, the danger and hardships they endured, and the trust, respect, and friendship that developed along the way.
Two characters, so beautifully conceived and developed, and so likable, they make reading this book an absolute pleasure.
5★My reception and rating may be biased as the subject matter in this one is close to my heart and I have read a fair share of non-fiction works in common as well.
I was pleased to see in the end remarks the author’s endorsement of the very excellent book The Captured: A True Story of Abduction by Indians on the Texas Frontier.Accept for the minor complaint that I am not a fan of absent quotation marks, this is as near to reading perfection as I can get.
I loved how she wove these fictional characters into a tale which brought to life this place and time in North American history.
What I really loved even more was the lyrical, spare, and compassionate prose she employed.
A Bonding JourneyA sweet tale, without author-processed chemical additives, i.e., a truly touching tale, without the sentimentality I've seen some authors try to jam down our throats in recent books.
It's somewhat reminiscent of Papa Hemingway with the moral complexities, but it's also about family and honor and commitment, in a lawless Texas of the 1870s.The two main characters are a 70+ year old news reader and a frightened, but courageous, well-drawn 10-year-old girl who spent the last 4 years as part of the Kiowa tribe of the plains that captured her after killing her Alsatian German-speaking parents and sister.
She didn't need to be told anything except that there were enemies in pursuit and she had already figured that out."A Texas reality in 1870 faces Captain Jefferson Kidd.
Reconstruction is a word best left to those who ill-define it.
There is the shocking jolt of brutality in her storyline and, at the same time, the irregular seam of tenderness dabbled out in uneven waves.Both Captain Kidd and Johanna seek the lost treasure of self-identity.
Jiles writes with brilliance and you almost taste the dust of the trail with each word.I highly recommend this book for those who have an inclination towards historical fiction.
In this time, Captain Kidd shows that honour and honesty are still alive, and that the fate of a 10 year old girl is still important.1870's Texas: a place where most anyone is armed and ready, when many still meet violent ends despite the end of the Civil War, and when a guy can make a living reading newspapers aloud.
The catch, and what you'll find out just by reading any review or blurb is, this girl has spent much of her childhood raised as a Kiowa, the tribe who murdered her parents and held her captive for four years.
Firstly thank you to a number of Goodreads friends who recommended this beautiful book.
I am so glad you did and so glad that I followed your recommendations and read it myself.As far as I am concerned this book is as near perfect as you can get!
I loved Johanna to bits, Captain Kidd too, as they travelled together through the wild west, dealing with all the many threats that came to bear on them.
And then that ending - how can you get better than that:)The book is short but very, very sweet.
The story is delightful.Just read it yourself!
He is approached in this northern Texas town by Britt Johnson, who convinces him to take a wisp of a child, ten-year old Johanna Leonberger, back to her family.
He teaches her, little by little, the things she’ll need to know in this life she was born into.
Jiles does a wonderful job immersing the reader in the time and place, 1870, not all that many years after the end of the Civil War; Texas then was nothing like it is now, Dallas was a small town.
This book was generously provided to me in exchange for an honest review by Harper Collins Publishers.I want to admit up front that I don’t usually read historical fiction.
He has a little ten year old girl that was taken by the Kiowa when she was six.
The little girl needs to be returned to her surviving family, an Aunt and Uncle.
It was shocking to me the things that people of that time had to worry about, the danger they had to endure to survive.
There are people with blackness in their hearts who seek little ten year old girls for vile reasons.
Ten year old ‘Johanna’ was kidnapped at age six by the Kiowa tribe.
Along their long and treacherous journey the seventy-plus year old Captain Kidd forges a bond with young ‘Johanna’ and she eventually learns to trust him due to his patience and kind treatment of her.This relationship is at the heart of the story and is what will stick in my mind when I think of all the many layers of this short, powerful novel.“Loss of reputation and the regard of our fellow persons is in any society, from Iceland to Malaysia, a terrible blow to the spirit.
One of those rare books that restores one's faith in humanity.
When a man's word stood as enough.
I was disappointed when I first opened the package and saw that it was a small book in comparison to others.
But not the message inside.
He doesn't really want to, she tries to escape, and after traveling across Texas a bond forms between them.I absolutely loved the character development and the land they crossed made me miss Texas more than I already was.
I loved having the map to follow their journey.Intriguing !
But he had promised.” So thinks Captain Jefferson Kyle Kidd after he accepts (for a price) the task of returning a ten year old girl to her aunt and uncle in Castroville near San Antonio.
Kidd once had a printing shop: “He loved print, felt something right about sending out information into the world.” He has since become an itinerant news reader, travelling from town to town with a bundle of newspapers from which he reads to audiences at a dime a head.
The child in this book was 10-year-old Johanna, a German-American girl captured four years earlier by a Kiowa tribe when they murdered her family.
She’s dressed in a deerskin shift with feathers in her hair and “had no more expression than an egg.” This takes place in 1870, shortly after the American Civil War, and the Kiowa have decided to sell her back.
The author says in her note at the end of the book that she thinks Doris explains best why these children never really settle.Doris gives Johanna a doll and watches Johanna prop it up and speak to it in Kiowa.“’She’s like an elf.
Oh my, Captain Jefferson Kyle Kidd, such a wonderful man, loved him!!
Now at 71 yrs old he is paid to bring 10 year old Johanna back to her relatives after her recovery from the Kiowa Indians who had captured her 4 years early and had killed her family.
Johanna only knows the way of the Indians now and has lost the English language.
The relationship that develops between the Captain Kidd and Johanna is beautiful.
I loved this book!
I thought my heart would break into two as I read this gorgeous story of the Captain and Johanna.
Such great imagery and packed with history subtly told by the news of the world as read by the main character.Evidently during the civil war many a young child was abducted and adopted into Indian tribes and this story is based on this history and how the children dealt with this trauma and importantly how they wanted to go back after being 'rescued'.
Fascinating.I wanted to deduct a star for lack of quotation marks but I've just finished and too emotional to deduct any stars.
Captain.
