https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551592.Everyday_Zen
This a great no-nonsense guide to Zen spirituality, free of Asian exoticism and specialized language, whose only purpose is to make you see. According to Joko Beck, enlightenment is really very simple and yet may take an entire lifetime--or more--to achieve. Enlightenment consists in this: being present in the moment, every moment, for the rest of your life. For you Christians who have been nourished by the spirituality of Juliana of Norwich, Meister Eckhardt and Brother Laurence of the Resurrection, you will discover a kindred spirit here.
We have minds which get us into plenty of trouble…."Last week when I went to the store, I thought back to a walk over there at about the same time of year, 13 or 14 years ago, shortly after my retirement.
If you’re like that, there’s HOPE.You see, unchecked, OUR own, and OTHERS’ own world can become a collection of thoughts about objects!
I had learned to BREATHE again.When I bought Charlotte’s book in the late eighties I thought it had helped me quite a bit.Now I KNOW she helped me to change just a LITTLE!But that LITTLE - that ‘tenth of an inch’s difference - was a Whole LOT.A Whole EARTHSHAKING lot.Funny, isn’t it?***This little gem has helped so many people to see their world ANEW, so here goes:FIVE BRIGHT FULL STARS, Charlotte!
I guess the biggest thing that I got out of this book is the idea that yesterday is gone and tomorrow's not here yet so just live out today.
Now I know that the point isn't that *tomorrow* isn't here.
But those are baby steps.Another thing that's big are the ideas of the superstructure and the ego.
The idea of Zen kinda leaves me at a crossroads - if I accept the philosophy, which, if I'm honest with myself, I've already begun to accept in very subtle ways, then it feels like it's a very lonely path.
Charlotte Joko Beck is a compassionate, non-nonsense and warm teacher: reading her essays left me feeling comforted and very serene.
When I read a book like this one, where so much emphasis is put on simple zazen practice and compassion, I’m not sure where the idea of Zen being harsh and militaristic comes from…The writing is straight-forward and engaging, realistic but still completely gentle.
The essays are transcribed talks given by Beck to her students, sometimes followed by some questions and answers, and organized by themes, such as feelings, suffering, ideals and choices.
A must-read for anyone interested in or practicing Zen.
I learned more about Zen from this book than from any other I've read so far.
About how life doesn't "work for you," about how people resist their lives and live in their dreams and fantasies, about how we expect things from other people and our lives and suffer when we are disappointed.
Joko speaks with such a feeling for the problems of real life that she could be any age, at any stage of practice (except that she's actually been practicing Zen so long that she must be old---I think she's now deceased).
She talks about people dying; how they realize before they die that life is really not going to turn out the way they expect it...suddenly they are at peace, finally having released their expectations, cravings, disappointments, and anger.
I’m still pretty new to the whole Buddhism thing, and for a long time I was intimidated by zen: I held the common, but mistaken, belief that it was highly ascetic and all about denying human emotions and desires.
It took some time for me to be able to read a book like Everyday Zen and really understand what it’s saying.
In fact, zen does not ask you to deny your emotions.
I’m the first to admit that there are many Buddhist thinkers who just don’t have a gift for writing, but I put Beck up there with Pema Chodron among those who really do have a gift.
Her wisdom flows like a good common sense talk from a wise old woman who personally saw a lot of pain in her life, which is exactly the kind of teacher I think we should all seek out.
Her teaching isn't earth shaking- it basically boils down to practice every day with the material you've got in your own life- all that shit that bothers you the 99% of the time you're not meditating.
And there's no better time to start than right this minute.If you like Pema Chodron's books, you'll probably enjoy Joko Beck's- they share a similar vein of humor and straight talk.
It has helped me to be more accepting of myself and everything else, just the way it is.
It has given me faith and clarity in my meditation practice, and inspiration and motivation to keep practicing.
The first time I tried to read it (4 or 5 years ago), I didn't get all the way through.
It resonates deeper every time I read it.
It can be very far out, very "zen" at times, so it's helpful having a meditation practice to have a clue as to what the hell she's talking about.
She understands, as the Introduction puts it, that the "chop wood, carry water" idiom of medieval Eastern practice has to be translated, for Westerners, into "make love, drive freeway." She can speak to a modern, Western student in a way that those following the monastic model of Japanese Zen can not or find difficult.[return][return]Beck is a practical, no nonsense teacher.
While she is insistent that no book can take the place of practice, still this one is invaluable as a manual for those of us who do not have access to a teacher.
I practiced for several years with Charlotte Joko Beck's dharma heir, Elihu Genmyo Smith, at the Prairie Zen Center.
After sitting, I would read a section of the book, much like I did previously with Thich Nhat Hanh's Peace Is Every Step: The Path of Mindfulness in Everyday Life.Joko Beck is unlike any other Zen teacher I have read or practiced with.
She shifts the focus from Satori or other mystical experiences to the simple practice of experiencing life.Everyday Zen has to be one of the most powerful books I've read on Zen - right up there with Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind.
Much like Beck's subsequent book 'Nothing special' there is no other writer (that I've found so far) that has written with anywhere near the sort of clarity, intelligence, profundity, sheer scary ass wisdom about meditation/mindfulness/Zen as this lady did.
There are no riddles, she does not try to be coy or obscure like some writers about something that is already quite hard to grasp already.
She pulls no punches about how incredibly hard constant life long practice will be but inspired me to really take my meditation seriously and to really dedicate time every day to it.If you are disillusioned or unsure about why you are meditating please please read these books.
Per questo è bene sottolineare che, nonostante possa essere una lettura interessante per chiunque, è una raccolta di discorsi elaborati dall'autrice durante le sesshin da lei tenute, quindi le sue parole sono rivolte a chi pratica meditazione (zazen, nel caso specifico).Chi non medita o non ha familiarità con i concetti esposti potrebbe non cogliere a pieno il senso di questi discorsi ed essere scoraggiato nel proseguire la lettura, esattamente come successe a me tre anni fa.
Penso inoltre che alcuni capitoli siano dedicati a studenti esperti, per cui l'autrice mi ha causato non poca confusione in alcuni punti.
If you ever feel reading about selfeducation and mindfulness you should give Charlotte Beck a chance.
This book has accompanied me on my search for understanding on meditation, awareness and orientation in life for well over 15 years by now.
I have always been fascinated by Jokos Becks words but had and still have a hard time to accept all the implications and deeper meanings.
She very much helped me to accept my responsility, toward others, the world and myself.
There is no book I have read so often as this one.
Some of her points were well-taken, and she does a good job of hitting all the main zen and meditation points, but the delivery just didn't endear the book to me.
Also, it irked me how her main point came down to "meditate, know yourself, and you will Just Know what to do".
Now, I'm not saying do _Y_, but do...a little of Y." Again, maybe it's a legacy of having been a transcription, where the author gets slightly off point and then backtracks to clarify, but in a book I found this disorienting.
Don't let the possibly pop-psyche, self-helpy title fool you! Joko is the real deal. The path is nothing but practice, thorough-going effort to accept this moment as it is, with no reservations. On giving up hope - "We have to give up this idea in our heads that somehow, if we could only figure it out, there's some way to have this perfect life that is just right for us. Life is the way it is. And only when we begin to give up those maneuvers does life begin to be more satisfactory."
Rational and free of exotic guru language!!
The book includes so many great metaphors to help a noob like me understand the fundamentals of Zen, among them:1) The metaphor of a house (life, perfectly fine as is) encased in another house (our self-centered thoughts that prevent us from seeing the original house for what it is)2) The prison metaphor for our constant search -  The prison cell we live in, whose walls we are frantically redecorating, is not a prison cell.
We don’t need to sit and struggle for freedom by frantically trying to change ourselves--because we are already free.
It was a nice experience reading this book.
My friend advised me to read it and at the beginning I didn't really like it.
The writer would always warn you how hard is to do Zazen and practice..
so I started to feel kind of negative about it but the author's point was to show you the reality of life.
It changed my mind completely.
For hopeless dreamer it was hard to get those points but now I am really glad that I read it.
You should experience it by yourself and enjoy it :)
True to its name, this book lays out the basics of Zen thought and practice without glamorizing them, and without wandering off into esoteric/academic sidebars. A very useful book for beginners, and a healthy "reality check" for intermediate practitioners.
A few passages worth remembering: "Someone said to me a few days ago, "you know, you never talk about enlightenment.
Could you say something about it?" The problem with talking about enlightenment is that our talk tends to create a picture of what is – yet enlightenment is not a picture, but the shattering of all our pictures." (173)"There's a famous Buddhist parable: hey man was being chased by a tiger.
Notice that the man being chased by a tiger didn't lie down and say, "oh, you beautiful creature.
The point is not that a positive emotion is better than a negative one, but that all thoughts and emotions are impermanent, changing, or (in Buddhist terms) emptyJoko Beck is not the first person I've heard say (in effect) impermanence == emptiness, but I think reading it here is the first time it's stuck.Another thing I liked in this book is the "New Jersey does not exist" metaphor.
No fundmental separation between me and that.And also, No Exchange nails it:If we're patient in a difficult situation, and hold our tongue ("You know, anybody else would really explode, but I'm patient"), what is the exchange we expect then?
A very concise and earthy explanation of meditation and Zen Buddhism.
As someone who has been studying meditation in a different tradition I found her practical guide to meditating spot on, illuminating things I'd been struggling with for years.I'm not sure this would be a great introductory book.
I think there are basic concepts not explained as exhaustively as someone new to Buddhism and meditation would want.
I read it a month ago and immediately started re-reading it, slowly, a chapter a day.
A very warm and relaxed book, it makes 'Zen' approachable and practical.
Horrible stories like one about this jerk who is waiting for the karma train or dharma train or something...
So he works the rest of his life babysitting and when his life is nearly over he realizes he was on the karma/dharma/enlightenment train all along.
It's the plot to Planet of the Apes.
Charlton Heston was looking for his home and it turns out he was on Earth the whole time, but he didn't realize it because it wasn't what he expected it to be.
Rent Planet of the Apes, don't waste your time with this garbage.
I keep this book on my bedside, along with the other Beck book. These are, to me, the best books I have on insight meditation. They are practical, no-nonsense pieces taken from her work with students and include questions from students. I find both books grounding and helpful without all of the difficult to penetrate mumbo jumbo (my phrase) that books like this sometimes offer. I highly recommend this book and "Nothing Special." Mine are so worn, it's time for new copies.
The most pragmatic down-to-earth and hence the best book about so called "spiritual life" that I have ever read. Simple, well-structured and containing some great parallels for life situations each one of us encounters. If you let it, it is going to help you accept things in your life no matter how painful they are sometimes, and commit to those things that you care about most.
This is the closest book I have to a "bible". Wonderfully clear, simple advice and instruction. Perfect for Western practitioners, in my opinion.Stands up extremely well to repeated reading - in fact, I recommend revisiting it at least once a year!I take it everywhere with me.
My first Zen book, when there were only a couple available on bookstore shelves. What a refreshing view of life.
great book, wish I owned it.
I've been practicing yoga for two months now, and when I'm in a new thing I want to know everything about it and books are my main source of learning.
While reading things about yoga I came to Buddhism, Zen, mindfulness, etc.
The most I like of this book was all the things related to zen.
I thought the book would be like a beginner guide, but it turned out to be a hard book for me, yet I did read the book.
So we filter anything happening in the present through all that: “I don’t like that.
Brought up a lot of questionsI'm not familiar with this type of Zen Buddhism so about a third of Joko's explanations brought up a lot of questions for me.
There's definitely more "good" than "bad".
The book is transcribed from her lectures and classes so there are some chapters that end with Q&A from students.
I'm glad learned more about it so that I know this type of practice is not for me.
My favorite part is learning that in this type of meditation, you wouldn't close yourself off to the external world.
Joko blames her friend his own suicide and seems pretty heartless about mental health in general.
