https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/354.To_Sail_Beyond_the_Sunset
I find reading Heinlein to be such a strange experience. His books are always fun, even this strange "world as fiction" stuff he gets further and further into later in his career. They're enjoyable. I reread them ad nauseam. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
He never won me back after that."To Sail.." is a continuation of RAH's Lazarus Long/Future History stories and the lead character is Long's mother.
I failed.RAH has three basic characters, the Wise Old Man, the Naive Young Man (usually the protagonist and narrator), and the Hot Chick.
MJ is, of course, the Hot Chick (with some WOM through in).RAH has really gone to FantasyLand for this character.
I'm not extrapolating, it's in the book.Really, RAH?
I find myself absolutely amazed that I had no idea that this book existed until 24 years after its publication, and I only happened to notice it because one of the librarians displayed it on a shelf with its cover showing, depicting a voluptuous red-headed nude (with parts of her anatomy discreetly covered by her flowing red hair, standing in a very large clam shell (which has nothing to do with the story), accompanied by a cat sitting beside her (a cat sitting on his tail, by the way, despite the fact that he is repeatedly described as always having his tail pointing straight up).Many moons ago (52 years ago, actually) I attended a conference for technical writers in St. Louis, where the keynote speaker was an admiral who berated us all for writing boring technical manuals and demanded to know why we could not write manuals as interesting as Heinlein’s novels.
One of his last & about the worst book Heinlein ever wrote, in my opinion. It's long, wordy & without much to recommend it. There is some action in it, but it's buried in windy passages. Not worth a re-read & I only got through it because I'm such a fan of his other works. Again, he is promoting incest.
Among Heinlein's last books, "serious" fans aren't quite sure if he was going insane in his old age, or if this book was meant as a sort of wink-wink nudge-nudge self-parody. In any case, it's pretty terrible.
Wish I hadn't bothered; this book is terrible.
The thesis (oft-repeated) seems to be "Maureen is an amoral wench," and this is backed up by pages and pages of her sexual exploits.
In between the incest and polygamy is nonsense about alternate timelines and an assassination squad.
All this is tied back into other novels like Time Enough for Love, and since it's told from a different perspective (Maureen's), hard core Heinlein fans will enjoy some of it.
But ultimately it's only a few excellent paragraphs on the folly of "warm body" democracy, paper money, and bad parenting that make up the book's redeeming qualities.
If Heinlein's evil plan was to overcome our natural 'phobia' of incest by repeated exposure then he may have partially succeeded because by the end I really didn't care any more whether Maureen slept with her father/son/whatever.
If his plan was to write a good book then I think he might have failed.
Heinlein might have thought he was making some important statement about sex and morality but really he follows a very patriarchal model where the ideal women wants lots of sex all the time with any old man and a woman with other ideas is a freak.
Maureen Johnson, born in 1882 and mother of Lazarus Long, is one horny gal.
If you can get over that, you'll find Maureen's life pretty interesting, sort of a rounding out of what we've been told before about Lazarus' mother and grandfather.
This isn't my favorite of Heinlein's books, but it is his last full-length novel and the "end" of the World as Myth Series, so I recommend you read it if you've gone that far.
It's also a (very) little better as a standalone than the two previous World as Myth books.
They all sort of hit one over the head with that message: you ARE an awful, close-minded, et cetera if you don't think it's a beautiful thing that one of the child-producing couples in the huge, multiple-partnered, immortal Long family is a mother and son.While a lot of the book was interesting, though-provoking, and well though-out, and while I always love Heinlein's writing (hence the three stars,) the interesting and engaging story kept being interrupted by incestuous orgies through the ages.
It was a sex-obsessed orgy with little "science fiction" to offer.
The next umpteen chapters are flashbacks to nineteenth century Missouri where Maureen, the main character, learns about sex as a pre-pubescent from her father and proceeds to whore herself out to every possible boy and man available.
Witness the exchange between 12 year old Maureen and her pervert father.
Riddle me that." Seriously, how many 12 year old girls talk about clits and cunts with their father???
The book reads like a cross between the Penthouse version of Caligula and de Sade's "Juliette," but not as good.
It's actually a pivotal book in the Lazarus Long series, because it deals with his mother and his origins.
This book also deals with the idea of polygamy, open relationships, and incest, all in very positive terms (Heinlein tends to use human biology and science to explain his position on open, honest sexuality and commune-like communities).
In this book, the sex is actually a major plot point, in that it is a theory of encouraging people genetically disposed to long life to marry and procreate to extend the human lifespan over generations.
It also, like all his books, deals with time travel as well.
It is a sequel to The Cat Who Walks Through Walls, though you will have needed to read several other Heinlein novels to really understand what's going on (notably The Number of the Beast and Time Enough for Love; there is a full list of characters and the novels they come from at the end of the book.)To Sail Beyond the Sunset is a first-person account of the life of Maureen, the mother of Woodrow Wilson Smith, otherwise known as Lazarus Long and the hero of Methuselah's Children and Time Enough for Love.
Have read all Heinlein but this book was most disturbing romance history book with some time travels in background. Does author mean that today being amoral is future's normal? Whatever incest scenes were disturbing.
It's like if Laura Ingalls Wilder were a red-headed time traveler obsessed with fucking!
It has been close to 20 years since I read this, and remembering it still makes me want to scrub my brain.
This is Heinlein's last novel. It's what you get during your I-don't-give-a-flying-fuck author phase of your life, and it's wonderful. Full of references to earlier works and characters, this one is pure fun and I love it.
This was the last book Heinlein wrote, and while it is by no means up with his real classics, such as "Time Enough for Love" and "Stranger in a Strange Land" it's a fitting enough finale for the great man.
If you have followed the man's stuff through his many decades of writing, from his earlier hardcore pulp stories, through the classic works of his middle period and the somewhat weird novels that marked the end of his life, then this is certainly one you need to read for completeness.
This is the story of Maureen, Lazarus's Mom. It really is a critique of the 20th century, and he did not approve of much that happened in the US in this time.
At the end for no good reason except that Maureen misses her Daddy and wants an incestuous relationship with him, they mount a special expedition through time to save him.
My point being that by this time Heinlein had decided special people get compensated in special ways just because they are special.
Extremely smart people can be immoral, something that Heinlein doesn't choose to acknowledge when he has them running the universe and politics, etc.
This book should be subtitled "A Time Traveler's Guide to Eugenics Through Multidimensional Incest."I guess it shouldn't be a surprise after reading Starship Troopers that any of Heinlein's other works should be head-bludgeoning social commentary thinly guised as science fiction.I'm tempted to say this is proto-Mary-Sue-by-proxy...
I mean, stuff happens AROUND her all the time, but very little of anything interesting happens TO her.
The part where she has to fight some of her kids who have gotten out of line (altho what "out of line" means for a completely amoral family is questionable on its own) might have been interesting, if, say, those kids had turned out to be the ones working against the Time Corps to change reality.
As a huge Heinlein fan who has read many of his books several times, it was a delight to realize that I hadn't read this one at all.
When I was younger and going through his novels I had a general dislike for the World as Myth later novels and I guess skipped this one entirely.I still dislike this aspect of the novel, but as I've become a diehard fan, it was a chance to spend some more time with characters whom I deeply love.
I've read it before, but this was the time with the kids and it wrapped up this part of our family book-reading with a bang.
Although I've been reading sci-fi for forty years, I was never a Heinlein reader.
Not sure why, he was just not someone I had discovered and followed.
And so, in the late '80's I read The Cat Who Walked Through Walls and had picked up this book, a follow-up (and Heinlein's last) novel.
This has been on my shelf all these years and I finally got around to reading it.
It's character-defining, sure, but 400 pages of character and no plot is just, frankly, dull.Although this is an homage to many of his previous books, I would still never recommend this to anyone.

I read this in high school, and then reread it at some point, but it's been a long time since I checked in with Maureen Johnson Long. Heinlein himself may be an acquired taste, and heaven knows his politics are dubious, but I find Maureen charming — an adventurous, sex-positive, no-nonsense broad to contend with. She is of course a figment of a strange man's strange imagination, but I enjoy her company. And the author's weakness for cats is kind of endearing.
It was interesting to hear Maureen's story. It really delves into the beginning of the Long and Howard Families. Not for the prudish as it definitely has lots of incest related storyline but not violent type. Always consensual. But then again if you have ever read a Heinlein book before you already know that. LOL. Once you can get past that it is a very good story.
I can't even pretend to be unbiased here. I originally read this at 12 or 13 and swallowed all of the moralising at that impressionable age. So if it isn't actually good, I can't possibly tell because it confirms so much of my worldview.
This is his worst book by far of what I have read. It is really just bizarre sex thing over and over again apparently told by a woman. Which when you remember this is actually being written by a weird old man makes you just feel creepy.
I realize life is not fair, and never will be, so his discussing how 'unfair' it would be if only bachelors served in the military was a bit 'funny' to me, but it was still a sound argument about why married men should be allowed to serve as it highlights the question "what are we willing to lay down our lives for?" [and most married men and fathers would be willing to die to protect their families].More 'thots' as they come to me while reading.
Cool that a sci-fi book goes back to Mark Twain time and place and establishes Maureen's dad as a kick ass original character.
I'm liking the conversations between Maureen and her dad and all the societal commentary.And then a quick flash back to the present situation...like 2 paragraphs of her in future-jail talking to her cat just to pick another point to flash back to...And we are back in the 1800's continuing on with Maureen's increasingly free sexcapades and how she met the guy she marries and how they have an obviously superior-than-any-of-you-prudes-reading-this swinging life.
True Heinlein, revisiting some of the best characters and worlds
She never loses her intellectual (or sexual) thirst, but she has become relatively fixed, ever so slightly grim, and fairly isolated by the 1980's.Then there are the parts of the novel that take place in the far future with (view spoiler)[a rejuvenated Maureen (hide spoiler)].
I don't think it's an accident that it looks back at the sunrise of Maureen's life and transports her--the implication is she still wants more, still hopes that beyond the sunset is more adventure; that the story, at least, may go on, even if individuals don't.Something important to this female-narrated novel is that it seems to be commonly accepted that things are very wrong with Heinlein's women.
