https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98593.The_Universe_and_Dr_Einstein
gravity is not a force (attraction) but involves paths that follow the geometric structure of space (created by "the mass of a gravitating body and the structure of the field around it....";8.
light has mass a la E=MC squared (energy and mass are equivalent).OR, something like the above....The book closes with a description of Einstein's long quest to develop a Unified Field Theory and thereby identify "a profound simplicity" to "supplant the surface complexity of nature." He distilled and united universal essences down to energy and matter, space and time, and gravity.
অসাধারণ একটা বই। বিজঞানের সবচেয়ে কঠিন একটা তততবের যে এত সুনদর আর সরল বযাখযা হতে পারে, এই বইখানি তার পরকৃষট উদাহরণ। আর সেই ষাটের দশকের অনুবাদকের তারিফ করতেই হয়। এতো ভালো অনুবাদ এখন দেখা যায়না। পড়তে পড়তে যে কেউ বিজঞানের পরেমে পরতে বাধয।
অসাধারণ একটা বই। বিজ্ঞানের সবচেয়ে কঠিন একটা তত্ত্বের যে এত সুন্দর আর সরল ব্যাখ্যা হতে পারে, এই বইখানি তার প্রকৃষ্ট উদাহরণ। আর সেই ষাটের দশকের অনুবাদকের তারিফ করতেই হয়। এতো ভালো অনুবাদ এখন দেখা যায়না। পড়তে পড়তে যে কেউ বিজ্ঞানের প্রেমে পরতে বাধ্য।
In essence, this theory, and by extension this book, is one of the most profound articulations of monotheism that I have ever come across, and it seems fitting that he close with a verse from St Paul.
"Jah is One").The very supposition that the Universe is round and finite - 200 billion light years to circumnavigate to be precise - is alone worth the price of admission for this gem.
NOTE- This book was published in 1957, so some of the theories are out of date - for example, that the Universe is 5 bln, and not 13.5 Bln years old -as is now theorized by cosmologists.
I found this book in a pile of my father's old books. I carried it around for quite some time before reading it, but when I did I was very pleased with it.This book is a very clear and understandable explanation of Einstein's Theory of Relativity. I definitely think that my mathematical background helped with understanding it, but I think that people with out a deep mathematical background could understand it.I usually think that popular science books are not very good, but I think this book is a definite exception.
This is really the first book in the sub-genre of "layman's physics." I first tried to read it when I was ten or eleven. I still have it & love it. I just like to hold it. It is a very comforting book to me -- it reminds me of a place in time, or should I say space/time?Ours was a book club edition. Remember when intellectual pursuits were encouraged?Anyway, this was a wildly successful book -- it's still in print. And it explains relativity in such a way that the layman could understand it in the 1950s.
This is an excellent little book. It presents basic scientific principles in an easy-to-read format. Barnett uses simple analogies to illustrate otherwise complex principles related to Einstein's work on the theory of relativity and his search for a unified field theory. Don't know what any of this really means? This book is for you! Only 100 pages, with illustrations!If this book intrigues you, take a step up to The Elegant Universe, by Brian Greene.
This book is a good overview of the science of relativity at the time it was written - and is still a very good one for those unfamiliar with the concept of relativity. For anyone who is already at least somewhat versed in what Einstein's theories of relativity are all about, though, this book leaves you wanting more depth (maybe not more math - but more depth!).
Outstandingly clear book on special and general relativity. I buy every used copy I see so as to share with students.
I recommend reading with Hawking's "A Brief History of Time," and Russel's "ABC's of Relativity." Trust me... its a dynamic trio which adds layer after layer in explaining the universe.
The theories of relativity were so revolutionary when first stated that it has been said that when Arthur Stanley Eddington was told in 1919 that he was one of only three people in the world that understood the theory of general relativity his response was, “Who’s the third?” Even complex theories tend to become part of general knowledge over time and Barnett does a good job in explaining Einstein’s ideas to the general audience.
In the modern world, the presence of any equation is considered to lead to a reduction in sales, yet Barnett does not shirk from using an equation when it is warranted.
For the scientists this is probably not worth the time. For the interested but always been intimidated by physics, this is a great read. It's incredible to see the impact one person can have on our understanding of everything around us. Short read, quick read nd probably the best at explaining in simple terms and analogies very complex concepts. I will have to follow it with Hawking's "Brief History of Time" immediately if not very shortly. I am excited about physics again!
What an amazing work! Wish I could give it more than 5 stars. When I started off with the book, I found it a little boring, with all the already known stuff getting repeated, but the moment the genius of Einstein was revealed, I was spellbound.Special and General Theory of Relativity beautifully explained in layman's words.
Never before i found a clearer explanation of the theory that bugged my brain since childhood.
A true book of a huge proportion to help understanding much of the logic of those times, of space and time, and a little coverage to help stem interest in concepts taken from the work of Einstein's including encouraging readers with an interest in either time-travel of practical usage or it's application in solving problems.
There isn't any math or algebra in this but to upset it's readers, it's mainly of a discussion on types of changes since Relativities proposal has changed the ways of solving problems using physics and possibly to help to an understanding the man Albert Einstein as a thinker on its problems of a universe into mathematical terms.
As someone who is both interested in quantum theory and also completely oblivious to it, I've always looked for books that would explain its complex theories in as simple a way as possible.
Second it's written using very laymen's terms (or as laymen as you can get in this context, I suppose), and focuses on using examples from everyday life to explain how quantum physicists and Einstein chose to look at problems and how they created a better understanding of these phenomena.
All explained relatively well (get it?) and in a way makes us look differently at our universe.
In plain English, it explains space-time relativity, gravity-acceleration equivalence, and others of Einstein's key discoveries.
Barnett explains the powerful thought experiments that led Einstein to his findings: What does the universe look like riding on a wave of light?
The book also has a very personal side, showing Einstein still trying to unify gravity and electromagnetism on his deathbed.
Barnett evidently believes the failure to find a grand unification theory creates room for God in an otherwise deterministic universe.
Spinoza thought that the best evidence of a designer was the very regularity of the universe.
As best I know, Einstein thought similarly.
I've read Brian Greene's FABRIC OF THE COSMOS, and I noticed several examples used by Greene to explain Einstein's ideas were also used here, even though they were published about 50 years apart, so it tells you how relevant Barnett's book still is.
Although I would still recommend Greene's book over this one because it is more exhaustive and fills in many gaps that Barnett left behind, and is generally less out-dated, especially with the advances made in Quantum Theory.
Greene's book made Barnett feel like he skimped a lot.Barnett's book is a good start if you have no clue what General and Special Theories of Relativity are.
Nice, but badly outdated….This book well-written and presents many difficult concepts very coherently, however, it has a major problem: it was written in 1948, and there are several chapters towards the end, concerning cosmology, the BIg Bang, and the size and shape and age of the universe, which have been completely revolutionized in 70 years! Chapers 13, 14 and 15 range from misleading to dead-wrong. Unfortunately, the last three chapters of this book should not be read today, except as a historical document.
The universe and dr Einstein This enjoyably book written by Lincoln Barnet is easy to understand it makes the meaning of time & space & matter,  When person looks through a telescope at the stars, they are looking in to the past.It would be similar to looking through photo albums, for the young at heart smart phones social-websites. I short it explained on of the greatest discover of our age
If you overlook the inevitable philosophical speculation - I get the distinct impression that the author is of a heavily philosophical bent - this very slim, quickly readable volume gives a wealth of information on the formation of Einstein's theories. It made several concepts that I've never quite understood in other materials clear, and in general it's very lucid and understandable without getting technical, while introducing several that I'd never even been aware of before.
Excellent book for somebody who wants to understand Einstein's ideas that lead to the most fundamental discoveries in physics. The best part of the book was the explanation of equivalence of acceleration and gravity. The simplicity of thought experiment that initiated the idea about mass - energy equivalence is stunning, as well as the way that the author presented it. 5/5.
Un muy buen libro para todos aquellos que se quieran empezar a familiarizar con la física del universo, debo aclarar que no es literatura, es un texto de carácter meramente científico y filosófico, también debo mencionar que a pesar de el año en el que el libro fue escrito, muchas de las teorías y leyes del universo que se encuentran en este libro, aún siguen vigentes.
This short book at 118 pages gave a thorough and ornate summation of the Laws of the Universe developed by Albert Einstein during his lifetime. I grappled with some theories and gained understanding of others and went away with a much clearer and deeper understanding of the physical universe. But please don't quiz me!
Enjoyable and concise review of Einstein's Theories of Relativity. It helps to have taken physics, but this book is far more likely to be understood by the non-science reader than the grossly over-rated "Brief History of Time."
Astonishingly understandable explanation of relativity. It even has Einstein's seal of approval (he wrote the foreword). This edition is 58 years old, so you'll have to overlook statements like 'space is empty,' and 'the universe is 5 billion years old.' It's a small price to pay for such clarity.
كتاب ممتع ومبسط عن النسبية والفرق بين نظريات نيوتن وأينشتاين فيما يخص الكون وفهمه.
This is a beautifully written book about one of mankind's most celebrated minds and his theories that have shaped our world view.
Physics, but even better...
1972 edition
Second time. Third time was January 1976,
