https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1162710.The_Great_Chain_of_Being
The Great Chain of Being is one of the foremost books of intellectual history, which is, as the subtitle reads, the study of the history of an idea.
The first idea (the principle of plenitude) stated that the Creator, being omnipotent, all-powerful, and faultless, could only create a world which contained everything that could ever be conceived.
The second idea (the principle of continuity) was a deduction of the first: if everything that could ever be conceived was to actually exist, the steps between each thing would be absolutely miniscule ...
A classic in the field which probably hasn’t been improved greatly as a history of the chain of being, even though the book is based on lectures delivered in 1933.The great chain of being refers to the belief that there is a continuous series of creatures and objects with God at the top and rocks, maybe even atoms, at the bottom.
The importance of the continuity of the chain is that if any niche or link that isn’t filled by the appropriate creature or natural object causes, all of reality to collapse.
Along with continuity and gradation, the third key concept in the idea of the great chain of being is plenitude.
Lovejoy essentially invented the field of "history of ideas" as something beyond the study of philosophy. Here he traces the transmission of the idea of the "Great Chain of Being" (i.e. the idea that there is a hierarchy of creation) from ancient Greece through modern times, arguing that it so imbued western culture that it often unconsciously influenced habits of mind and patterns of thought. In America, intellectual history as a field derives from Lovejoy's tenure at Johns Hopkins and his founding of the History of Ideas club there.
Lovejoy here tracks the origins and development of the idea of the Great Chain of Being from its origins in the thought of Plato through its growth and adaptation in the Middle Ages and finally to its flowering and fading in the 18th and 19th centuries. Throughout, Lovejoy provides an engaging discussion and a wealth of insight. Lovejoy's book is the model for how intellectual history should be done and a fascinating study of an important idea.
The Great Chain of Being by Arthur LovejoyGreat book- 9 out of 10The very idea is wonderful:- The Great chain of Being- The history of the idea of plenitude from Plato to SchellingReading about such fabulous concepts and stories must be amazing.I say must be, for I did not quite get it all.- Perhaps 50%?- Or was it even less?Alas, it gets too complicated for me and I am an epicurean, at least in what has to do with reading, where I do not apply myself.When I do not enjoy, grasp or both I lose co

Lovejoy is a terrible writer, but the subject of this book was so fascinating that it made for an interesting read anyway.
He waffles on much of the time, failing to get to the point; the entire book of 300 plus pages could be reduced to much less than a hundred pages in terms of its actual content.
My rating of three stars actually reflects a compromise between the one star of Lovejoy's writing and the five stars of the interest of the subject of the book.
The three big "unit-ideas" are Continuity, Gradation, and Plenitude.
With breathtaking erudition Lovejoy unpacks not only the regularity with which these ideas have manifested themselves in the European philosophical and literary tradition (which he construed as a single ongoing conversation) but also the varied and often contradictory ways they have been unfolded and deployed.
Methodologically, Lovejoy is interested only in yeh interplay of the ideas themselves: he eschews any effort to ground the ideas or their variability in particular social times and places.
This creates a "seminar in the sky" effect: this is he sense it which it is a history of IDEAS rather than a history of INTELLECTUALS.
Very fine examination of the Platonic notions about the dual nature of God that gave birth to the Great Chain of Being and its implications for later Western thought. I predict repeated re-readings in the years to come.
My parochial education was sadly lacking in philosophical history and thought with its focus primarily on religious teachings. I am delighted to realize that my self-education as an adult allows me to read these serious philosophical lectures on the history of some formative Platonic ideas with pleasure and understanding. Now, 80+ years after the lectures were given, I can see the results of this history in the continuing evolution of Western cultural thought and belief.
Tracing across eras from the age of the Platonists the notion of plenitude in a (rather!) academic study.It began with the Platonic explanation of the universe having so many manifestly imperfect things: what was perfect was the universe, and its perfection consisted of having every possible type of being.Onward through its mutations.
The philosophers who debated whether God had created freely.
The philosophers who insisted, as soon as the notion of other worlds like ours arose, that obviously they had to be inhabited.
The philosophers who rejected the notion of progress because it would require that the plenitude not be complete at some point.
Oi! 200 words where 10 would suffice. Still, beneath the verbiage a thorough study of the Great Chain of Being lives.
A seminal text in the history of ideas that may be both obsolete and cursory but nonetheless important as an introduction to the contours of Western thought.
The chain of being is the continuum of “substance/essence/stuff” beginning with God (or Plato’s Good) and ending with either inorganic life or nothingness itself.
What’s the difference between less good and bad?If there is an infinite distance between God and not-God, and all of this is placed on a “scale” or chain, then is there not an infinite distance between each link in the scale?
Since God is perfect, and the chain is a diffusion of his goodness, and since God is eternally perfect, then we must see this eternal perfection.
Lovejoy traces the idea of the “Great Chain of Being”, and the impact it has had on Western thought over the past 2500 years.
This book is really focused on the atomic principles formulating the “Great Chain”: principle of sufficient reason, principle of plenitude, and principle of continuity; focusing on the different ways they have been interpreted to affect the course of Western philosophy and theology.
Highly recommended to anyone interested in better understanding how some core ideas in society have evolved over the past 2500 years.
If anything, this book helps to put any literature written before the 1800s into better context.
It is the whole society to be blamed and I think the way to fix that is to raise the new generations in a new way that calls for justice between genders and focuses more of their mental and intellectual abilities and potential instead of spreading another discriminatory speech against men and blame them for something, yes they use but were not the founders of .
Dense book on the idea of plentitude that starts with Greek philosophy then concludes with Leibnitz’s famous philosophical writings on the “best of all possible worlds”.
I happen to disagree with the author’s conclusions, but find the narrative one of the best on the subject matter nevertheless.
The explanation of Medieval cosmology in particular with regard to the Ptolemaic universe is enchanting.
The latter half of the book is heavy treading.
In other words, there is no possibility of “gaps” in the "chain of being" that leave metaphysical reality in potential without actualizing the possible in the existing physical universe.
This book provides an astonishing tour through the history of philosophy by following the fate of the idea of a Great Chain of Being.
The book sat on my shelf for many years.
I finally picked it up during my study of eighteenth century ideas.
I found Lovejoy's characterization of the Enlightenment and Romanticism the parts of the book I was best able to follow.
His description of Romaticism's struggle to resist the Enlightenment's inclination to universalize and to insist on the inclusion of the varieties of particularities in our world view was very helpful.
For this alone I would thank Lovejoy.
Excellent exposition of the idea of the basis of our world view from Classical Greece to the Enlightenment. It is somewhat dated (1936) but Dr. Lovejoy's views are brilliantly served up for consumption by the educated elite of his time. This is strictly lectures for a graduate level university audience. He expects his listeners to be able to understand Latin, Classical Greek, German and French. He does not simplify as much as he explains. He requires much knowledge on the part of his reader. It is the seminal work in the field and requires close reading.
Other than Shakespeare's plays this is the ONE ESSENTIAL book--and phrase--to remember from the English Renaissance, it assays the foundation principle behind kingship, the political and social order, God and man. Some might wish to substitute Tillyard's The Elizabethan World Picture as THE ONE....but then you wouldn't have the all-encompassing phrase of this title to recall.
i HAVE been trying to read this book for 3 weeks. Just could not get into it. I have little Interest in the thoughts of those from 1,700 years ago nor do I want to read about Plato and his thoughts. I got up to th 17th century and gave up. A total waste of time for me.perhaps I will return to it when I am old. ha
This is a very important book. It shows the progress of the idea of the great chain of being from Aristotle to the Enlightenment. It is important because it shows how intellectuals have wrestled with the dualism between matter and spirit ultimately becoming disillusioned with the whole idea.
One of the really great books. This is on a part with Rieff's Triumph of the Therapeutic in my eyes. The shift from a vision that the universe hangs together in a great chain, in a great dance, has shifted to the notion that nothing hangs together, including ourselves.
Study of the idea of hierarchy in Western thought; not as popular a concept today as when the book was written (or talks given).
Brilliance passim.
