https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49545.Great_Short_Works
Like most males, I read the Red Badge of Courage in high school.
Heck, it was about fighting and it was short.
Much later in life I reread it and realize how good it really was.
I was pleasantly surprised at just how darn good of a writer Crane was.
No overblown Victorian prose, but rather clear realistic writing.
Save for the inherent racism of the day, the writing is as though it were written today.
In "The Monster" he tackles the question of quality of life, and when should we allow someone to die.
Well worth the read folks.

These stories were fantastic.Of the three short stories, my favorite was probably Maggie, but I loved them all.Crane does a lot in a short space, discussing the concepts of people looking at each other (voyeurism) for the sake of feeling better about themselves (there were many other themes, too, but this one stuck out to me the most).
He successfully puts us on the "in," allowing us to realize that circumstances can get the better of people.
The stories were like a slap in the face, making readers realize how cruel life can be and how people often don't make it better, while us readers could easily be guilty of this.Overall, great read.
Ok, so aside from the fact that the inclusion of _The Red Badge of Courage_ at the very beginning of this collection does not adequately display Crane's artistry, the stories that follow are remarkable: "Maggie" is excellent, "The Open Boat" is chilling, and "The Monster" is equally fascinating. Crane is great, but I wouldn't try to read this whole collection all at once.
The only one I hadnt read in the past was "The Monster", which was well written and not quite in Crane's usual style-but a little heavy handed in its moralizing.Still, worth the time spent reading it.
Crane strikes me as a proto-Hemingway, if Papa was a shade more self-aware. He wrestles with the notion of courage, of manliness, but he also explores the Bowery slums and the exploitation of women in "Maggie"."The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" is the perfect short story- suspenseful, painterly, and satirical of the tropes of the Western genre."The Open Boat" is also a page-turner, catching a (true) episode of danger with a humanistic eye. The author's eye pivots skillfully between the description of the merciless sea to the mental experience of the men in the boat.
Not sure I'd say the Red Badge of Courage is a great American classic, but I guess put into context that it was written in an era gone by, it's just a notch below Huck Finn. The other short stories aren't bad, but not classics either.
