https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3682.A_Great_and_Terrible_Beauty
-- terrible.The characters are simple and one-dimensional, their actions both petty and selfish.
The male lead (a young man from India) is sexualized and fetishized for his "exotic" appearance and culture; other Indian characters are shown as either submissive or violent.
Though these Victorian girls wander about with decidedly un-Victorian sensibilities and though Ms Bray makes a weak attempt to decry the injustices of a society so quick to condemn the expression of feminine sexuality, the story itself does not support this modern take on the Victorian era.
Sexual and romantic relationships between men and women often contain obvious and disturbing power imbalances (or violent undertones).
DNF***
This book is what it is: a young adult novel.That said, it's a very good one.
You can read the summary on the book's page, so I won't go into that here.I loved the juxtaposition of Victorian England, colonial India, and the fairy world.
The protagonist doesn't belong in any of them, and she recognizes that, which sets up the whole story: the outsider tries to find her niche.I didn't care for any of the other main characters, mostly because I felt that the protagonist, Gemma, was treading on thin ice by being friends with them.
I don't know why for so long I just assumed I wouldn't like historical fiction, it's not as if I don't love history - I picked it for one of my A levels in college. But, I guess it's just one of those genres that sounds tedious and you imagine it to be all oppressed sexuality and prim and properness. Diana Gabaldon forever changed my mind with her oversexed and aggressive depiction of history and it was only a matter of time before I looked towards other works of historical fiction.This book is
I don't know why for so long I just assumed I wouldn't like historical fiction, it's not as if I don't love history - I picked it for one of my A levels in college.
And that's another thing I liked: the exploration of the girls' sexualities behind closed doors.
I was saying that I liked the idea of weaving fantasy into history, I'm all for spicing up times gone by.I didn't give it 5 stars because it wasn't quite up there with my other 5 star rated books.
I liked that the protagonist wasn't a pushover, even more so because the novel setting was in a very sexist society.
Okay, so I was a little slow discovering this, but since Rebel Angels just came out, I figured I would read the first in the series first.
The novel can best be described as Gothic fantasy.
Lots of Victorian atmosphere and ruminations about the claustrophobic restrictions on women in that time period, combined with a good portion of magic and mystery.
It saved the novel from becoming top-heavy or melodramatic.
The ending didn't quite work as well for me as the rest of the book, but perhaps I was simply reading too fast by that point.
Be aware, there was a definite erotic edge to the book.
Boarding school stories are f a s c i n a t i n g.(A pitiful review, but two exams tomorrow so I can't give you more dear reader :O)
Shall I tell you a story?
A ghost story?Are you ready?Shall I begin?
And they sinned.
Do you know what that sin was?
Their sin was that they believed.
Believed they could be different.
Special.
They believed they could change what they were—damaged, unloved.Cast-off things.
This is a ghost story, remember?
Things couldn't be different for them, because they weren't special after all.
So life took them, led them, and they went along, you see?They faded before their own eyes, till they were nothing more than living ghosts, haunting each other with what could be.
Isn't that the scariest story you've ever heard?
Buddy Read with some amazing ladies and a traveling book, hosted by Julie over at Pages and Pens!
The basic premise of this book is a young girl named Gemma Doyle, is whisked away to a London boarding school after the death of her mother.
This book is extremely racist and homophobic, but it’s painted in a way that says, “This is just how it was back in 1895!” and it feels extremely bad to read.
There is so much catty girl hate in this book, that I truly believe my younger self would have hated this just as much in 2005 if I read it.And the fat shaming is constant.
4.5*Libba Bray never seems to disappoint and this was no exception! I really loved this one! I love the time period and all the witchiness and the characters were awesome, it was great!
“Don’t you ever speak to me that way again,” I snarl. “I am no longer content to be the scared, obedient schoolgirl. Who are you, a stranger, to tell me what I can and cannot do?” Wow, this was such a pleasant surprise. If you don't know, The Diviners by Libba Bray is one of my favorite books ever. So you can imagine I had my doubts that a book written many years earlier by the author would live up to it.But A Great and Terrible Beauty was just so good. I shouldn't have doubted Ms. Bray. It had
It had so many great things going for it, with the Victorian setting, mysterious death of the main character's mother, supernatural elements, and rebellious, lovable narrator, Gemma Doyle.Seriously, this book was too much fun, while also taking a look at more serious historical facts, such as how many young girls were bred to be the wives of rich men during this time - even if the men were thirty years older.
They were expected to behave like proper ladies, but these wild girls were the complete opposite and were desperate to escape constricting corsets, French lessons, and everyone telling them what not to do.I became so absorbed in this world - the Victorian era felt like something supernatural in itself, with the claustrophobic rules of Spence Academy.
I love that this is both historical and has magical elements, especially set at a boarding school, because the aesthetic and the setting of the book was really neat.
I also love that despite the time, Gemma is a feminist and has a lot of confidence.
However, I had more problems with this book than I have praise.
I felt like Gemma was very gullible and foolish in her decision-making, something that made me shake my head the entire book.
Additionally, I was having a hard time getting into this because for some reason I kept getting bored and picking up other things.
Series review video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a2qPN...Update 3 months after reading: I'm lowering my rating from 3.5 to 2.5 stars.
I've finished the series and in books 2 and 3 I saw a few things to be problematic.
Overall, I would give this series a 1 star rating.
The plot was unenjoyable, and the characters ended up being extremely problematic.Original review:  Great girl power and unusual magic.
Although the plot meandered at times, this is only the start of a trilogy and I felt it was just laying the groundwork for bigger things to come.
According to the author, this is a story about an English girl named Gemma who sees things.
I specifically used the word "teen" to denote a person whose life inexperience causes her to make impulsive decisions—not all bad, mind you—but implusive nonetheless.The story is set in Victorian-era England, a period in time where a girl's greatest hope was (supposed to be) to marry well (read money).
That's why it's the most terrifying thing in the world, really, taking someone on faith, hoping they'll take you on faith, too.
Why did I wait so long to read this? Such a great adventure! Strong, smart heroine with untapped magical potential. Loved the historical setting, too. Sign me up for the series! <3
This is a young adult book, so I tried really hard to take that into consideration when judging it, but there are so many other, well-done kid/teen books out there that I feel OK about occasionally trashing one.It basically follows the same overdone storyline we've all seen way too many times: boarding school kids whose parents don't want them discover they have magical powers, and they go through the whole 'magic for good versus magic for evil' struggle.
This one didn't work because there was nothing new or imaginative about the story, and the whole book just felt...
The story was frustratingly predictable, the characters one-dimensional, and the writing drab.
A Great and Terrible Beauty is the first in her Gemma Doyle series and what a beginning it is.The year is 1895 and our story follows Gemma Doyle, a young woman from a wealthy English family who has spent her entire life thus far growing up in India.
In these circumstances who would not find the call of a magical order made up entirely of women seductive?Bray’s book shines a light on the individuality of women in a time when they were allowed very little.
Mysterious Sexy Boy: “So Gemma, isn’t it exciting to be attending your first Grateful Dead concert?”Gemma Doyle: “Yes, but… Jerry Garcia has been actually dead for years..”MSB: “Not for the purpose of this review, he isn’t.
I tell you not to inhale second hand smoke and now you are smoking a joint?!”GD: “How can weed be so bad if it makes me feel so good, man?”MSB: “I’m not telling you.
Even so, A Great and Terrible Beauty was a pleasurable read.
Set in a Victorian era all girl finishing school, A Great and Terrible Beauty tells the story of Gemma Doyle.
She painted such a vivid image of the surroundings that I felt as though I was there with the characters in the book.The plot moves very well, and there were a number of 'cliffhangers' which kept me turning the pages.
There was a nice mixture of fantasy and realism, that made for a great read.I liked the main character, Gemma.
She felt very real and I could relate to her more than I have done with main characters in other books.
A really great read, and I will definitely be picking up the other books in the trilogy.
Try not to turn your nose up at it.*I must make an important note here, digress and ask: has anyone else noticed that using the word “gingerly” is practically a prerequisite for young adult authors to consider themselves thus?
While I’m certain women of all eras have harmed themselves in order to remind themselves that they “can still feel”, I couldn’t help but feel as though Bray was taking an idea from a more modern story (about the more modern phenomenon of cutting, for example) and trying to push it into this novel...The lasting effect resulted in the proverbial round peg, square hole dilemma.
I didn't care about the characters, the plot moved in fits and starts, the romance/tension/whatever it was supposed to be, with Kartik, just felt pasted on...
In conclusion, I basically ran out of give-a-damn.The writing is competent, in that it's all easy enough to read and understand, but given that the main character's voice wasn't convincing, even though she's the narrator, and the pacing felt jerky, the characters unsympathetic, etc, etc, I can't find myself recommending it.
It wasn't completely terrible for me to read -- I didn't want to throw it across the room -- but honestly, I couldn't see where people get four and five star ratings for it from.
But, the expectation of things going somewhere kind of kept my attention.This book is about a girl who has special powers.
I mean, there are still only about five books about girls with special powers, right?
But, speaking of that, let’s list the books with girls who have special powers.The main contenders:1.
And then you have sort of middle-ground books like Shiver, Uglies, Wicked Lovely, City of Bones, Wither, Darkfever, etc., where there is a girl, and she is the protagonist, and there are fantastical things, but the girl doesn’t really have a power, you know?
I am undecided whether I'll go on to read the other books in the series or not (although I was intrigued so I might try it--I'll wait a few more days to see how many nightmares I have before deciding for sure).The story follows Gemma Doyle from the death of her mother in India to her placmeent in a finishing school back in England.
I wonder what makes a novel a young adult book?It seems that having a teenage character is the only requirement.
REVIEW OF THE GEMMA DOYLE TRILOGY AS A WHOLEI've been putting of this series for a while since I only had the first book in the series...however, I chose to buy them on my kindle too and since then I binge read the whole thing.
However, in my opinion the series went downhill from each book after that.
The characters in this book were wonderful.
The main character, Gemma was a problematic teen who held power she didn't quite understand.
I didn't feel a connection with him and I struggled to see a relationship between him and Gemma other than lust.
Gemma also meets a clique straight out of the movie "Mean Girls" -- Felicity (the dominant leader), Pippa (the beautiful and dumb sidekick), and a few other forgettable hangers-on.
Whereupon Gemma and Felicity immediately become the best of friends (nothing like blackmail to forge a deep friendship), forming a new foursome comprised of Felicity and Pippa, and Gemma and Ann. Gemma gradually discovers that she has magic powers which can take her to supernatural realms, and that she can even bring her new bosom buddies with her.
And Gemma's cynicism and inner sarcasm also beg the question of anachronism; I'm not saying people didn't have negative thoughts back then, but I think that expressing them in that particular way, even inwardly, is distinctly contemporary.
I swiped this out of the classroom one day because I had lunch duty and my choices were A) stare at the perpetual hacky sack game for 30 minutes or B) read something.
When I began the book, I was immediately hooked--exotic locale, spirited protagonist, hint of the supernatural.
Here's a quickly compiled list of possible reasons:A) Began in India, but then switched to an isolated boarding school for girls in Victorian England.
They lost me as soon as they left an amazing setting with all kinds of possibility for a mediocre one.B) It's a young adult book and those don't always sit well with me.
Edited@27/02/2015: well, a helpful reviewer came up to say the MC, Gemma, did think of her Indian housekeeper for a few times, but I'm sorry, I really was unable to find it in the Chinese translation I read.(2) Somehow, a British citizen who wasn't born with a single drop of Indian blood in her, and who also wasn't a Hinduist, had adopted Goddess Kali, the goddess of destruction, as her guardian goddess.I'm disgusted, as an non-Hinduist, when I visited India some years ago, for more than once I wasn't allowed to come anywhere near some of the shrines within the temples, because those important shrines are for believers only.
3.5 stars*While this book was interesting and very enjoyable there were a few things that I struggled with.1) The pacing.
I found the pacing to be very slow and felt that nothing happened.
The same thing seemed to happen all the time.
I am not a huge fan of books that have a slow pace.
I found it hard to read at times, mostly at the beginning of the book and was often getting confused about what was happening.
There were times where I had to read a paragraph or a sentence more than once just to understand what was happening.
I am a big fan of Victorian literature as well as the boarding school setting; and it was a pleasure for me to delve into a world of this Jane Eyre-ish teen drama.
First of all, I have to give Bray a special credit for choosing a rather original setting and issues.
The combination of Indian colonial culture and 19th-century English boarding school for girls created one great atmosphere.
Finally, the mythology in this book was original, rich, and layered.
There is definitely a lot of foreshadowing that is never fully realized in the conclusion and is a set-up for the next two books.
Review to come later, after I've finished thinking about it. Hmm hmm hmm.
Bray creates a world of dreams, wonder and magic.
With every thing beautiful, something dark, horrible and nightmarish comes forth.
Not everything that comes from dreams, wonder and magic is good though.
And not everything that is dark, horrible and nightmarish is bad.
These girls feel as if finishing school is rubbish and that there is more out there for themselves.
It's woven so well that at some points you are like, "wait, why can't this happen to me?" Bray has a way of getting you to love characters so much that you feel like you actually know the person.
