https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/223967.Experiencing_Architecture
I have read about two dozen books on architecture; this is the most helpful by far.
"Daylight in Architecture" (ch.
"Hearing Architecture" (ch.
X) is a brilliant introduction to buildings and sound, with another bonus: the effect of architecture on church music, specifically how building styles led to the change from monodony to polyphony (e.g., chant to fugue).
The rest of the book is just as enlightening.
I read it because Witold Rubczynski said that it was the single most influential(?)/helpful(?) he had read, and I find his books illuminating (e.g., "Home", "How Architecture Works", "The Perfect House"--all of which I recommend as well).
But most buildings consist of a combination of hard and soft, light and heavy, taut and slack, and of many kinds of surfaces.
And to experience architecture, you must be aware of all of these elements."" Just as we do not notice the individual letters in a word but receive a total impression of theidea the word conveys, we generally are not aware of what it is that we perceive but only of the conception created in our minds when we perceive it""Understanding architecture, therefore, is not the same as being able to determine the style of a building by certain external features.
Which I think was a shame because I could have learned so much from it.After four semesters (2 years) I decided to pick it up again since I saw it lying in the bottom of my drawer and read it.
Very poetic, in my opinion.Going back to my little story about not reading the book during my first semester in Architecture.
I was focused on the functional and engineering part of Architecture that I totally forgot the more philosophical and social duty attached to a building, be it a house, a hospital, or a museum.
This is the first book I have read on architecture and it has introduced me to a number of exciting ideas, such as the effects of acoustics in architecture and use of light and color.
The author writes in a casual style which makes it very easy to follow along, but also means he makes several unsupported claims (it is a "well known fact" that seeing riding boots produces a sense of honor and royalty in the viewer, and that tennis rackets produce feelings of vitality).
The numerous jabs at "primitive people" also made me cringe a bit.
I took Deaf Studies: Deaf Spaces. This was applied to this book and helped us to understand how the architecture works. It applied to our project for Deaf Space course. Teacher's concepts and the book guided our ideas to remodel early 1900's houses on row at Gally University.
Autor wskazuje w dziesięciu rozdziałach kluczowe elementy, które pozwalają zrozumieć to niezwykłe zjawisko jakim jest architektura.
Na koniec mały urywek na zachętę:"Nikt nie interpretował lepiej sposobu życia Japończyków niż Lafcadio Hearn, anglo-amerykański pisarz, dla którego Japonia stała się drugim domem.
Charakterystyczną cechą kultury Japonii – mówi – jest niezwykła mobilność Japończyków w każdym znaczeniu tego słowa.
Nawet sama ziemia nie jest trwała.
Przeciętny Japończyk nie jest przywiązany do żadnego konkretnego miejsca.
Bez tego wszystkiego Japończycy mogą się doskonale obejść.
Pomyślcie przez chwilę, jak ważnym elementem zachodniego ubioru są chociażby białe koszule!
The floor, he says, like the art we walk on should give an impression of gravity.
And, finally, the ceiling should be light and airy, in tones of white or delicate shades of pink and blue, like the sky over our heads.
It would give a feeling of insecurity, he claims, to walk on pink or blue floors, and we would feel the ceiling as a heavy load weighing us down if it were painted a dark color.
The floor is covered with a Chinese rug in lovely indigo blue on which I walk every day without the slightest feeling of insecurity.
I did enjoy this little volume, and will be content to have it sit among the other books on architecture on my shelves, but almost more for the crisp yet creamy black-and-white photos (of walnut chairs, teacups, bricks), for the silken sheen of the paper they have been printed on, and for the lovely library smell of the book, than for the text itself, which in a number of ways has not stood the test of time as well as one might have wished.
Podstawa podstaw dla tych, którzy obcują z architekturą. Czyli dla każdego.
They had a recess at eleven o'clock and employed the time playing a very special kind of ball game on the broad terrace at the top of the stairs.
When the ball was out, it was most decidedly out, bouncing down all the steps and rolling several hundred feet further on with an eager boy rushing after it, in and out among motor cars and Vespas down near the great obelisk.One of the subtle points he's making here and elsewhere in his book, is that people experience architecture in different ways, and these experiences may change with time.

As someone who is currently applying to universities to study architecture and is new to the world of architecture, I found this book a very useful introduction. He discusses many different aspects of architecture, allowing you to understand what an architect needs to consider. He also spoke of the history of (mostly European) architecture which I also found helpful.
its generally hard to put the experience of architecture in words but this book gives you a beautiful and sensible description of things you may never have given thought to.it truly shows that the work of an architect is a work of a passionate and considering person .this work is for users to see, feel and be a part of it every day.
Be prepared to think when you read this book. It gets a bit dense at times, but is worth it. For a non-architect, it can change the way you think about the built spaces around us. Discovering how different crafts and arts like textiles and musical rhythm get turned into places and structures was a worthwhile experience.
This is a good, basic book for learning what to "see" in Western architecture. It was written in the 1950's, so is outdated for anything post-modern, but I really really enjoyed the Renaissance and Baroque discussions (most of them centered in Rome).
Mimarlikla ilgili hicbir sey bilmiyorum o yuzden bu kitap bana zor geldi. Yorumlarda aksini soylese de konuya yabanci olanlar icin okumasi o kadar kolay degil. Son zamanlarda populer bilim konulari cok iyi kaleme aliniyor, tabii bu kitap eski oldugu icin o anlatimi bulamadim.
Well chosen anecdotes such as the facades of Venetian villas and the utility of Dutch windows, serve as a reminder that architecture's highest aspiration is to be well suited to a cultural purpose. A must read for designers.
A very deep and thorough answer to the question of what do we do with architecture? Do we see it? Hear it? ... Throughout the modernistic era, Rasmussen managed to feel, with the help of cinema,art,etc, the totality of architecture, further from mere measurements and numbers.
Re-reading, good read for non-architects
Pretty good, but the author focused on Le Corbusier more than any other architect. I didn't learn anything groundbreaking (I didn't learn much at all), but the few gems were worth it. Well written.
old style good ideas about experiencing architecture; (appropriate title!) nice pictures
how to experience architecture from various perspectives.
نستشعر العمارة والامكان من خلال حواسنا الخمس:المكان له صوت، يتأثر بالاضاءة النهارية، بحاسة اللمس وغيره.
Because architectural objects are not just monuments.
Read this in design school at NCSU many moons ago. Pulled it out as a reference for work and loved it a second time around.
An insightful look on architecture by an author I tend to agree with. Written for anyone with even a passing interest in architecture and the built environment.
Especially fascinating are the chapters about color and ambiance.
favorite
Excellent read. Takes some very technical aspects of architecture and makes a very readible book.
i was a very good book
