https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278435.The_Funny_Little_Woman
This review was a partial family affair.My 7-year-old: "Scary."My 9-year-old: "Weird."Me: "The Caldecott??"
When the little woman tried to get it, she ended up falling into the hole and into the underground home of the wicked Oni. The Oni wanted the little woman to cook rice for them and even though the little woman cooked for them, she was starting to get homesick and she tried to find ways to get back home.Arlene Mosel’s retelling of this ancient Japanese story was truly hilarious and intense at the same time as I loved the little woman’s adventures in the Oni world!
by Andrea Renee CoxThis was a cute Japanese legend about a little woman who likes to make rice dumplings. There were mentions of Japanese gods and evil mythical creatures. Great conversations about the cultures of different countries could be started because of this book.I was not compensated for my honest review.
This book was kind of random.
It's called The Funny Little Woman, but they never did explain why she was so funny, she laughed a lot, but that's not really very funny.
When reading this book and the funny little woman is running after her rice ball, I am wondering why she is not heeding the advice of all the statues, warning her of the evil Oni, wouldn't you at least take that into account and just go home to make another rice ball?
The ending was a little off as well, I wouldn't recommend reading this book, it was just plain strange.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
I loved this book when I was girl, and my children have enjoyed it too. It's a great story read aloud with an animated voice. Be creative in your storytelling, your children will love it.
We discussed the wordless scene when the little woman arrives at the house where the wicked Oni live.
After the discussion, I explained the term "tableau", divided the students into groups, and asked them to decide which scene they wanted to portray.
Since we have a stepped kiva in our library, we did some lovely scenes--the house on the hill with the little man and his dog approaching, a table, dumpling rolling along a path, Jizo statues, a river, and of course the funny little woman in a boat and wicked Oni swallowing river water.
As she tries to escape the funny little women makes them laugh and the woman is able to get away with the magic paddle.
The funny little woman was able to make rice dumplings a lot faster because of her magic paddle this explains the natural phenomena that helped the woman become rich because she had help from the gods.
I really liked this book because the woman was not trying to be funny when she escaped but she made the wicked gods laugh and was able to get away, in the end she benefited by being captured by the gods.
I loved this book! The story was funny and kept me interested. I loved how when I read the book, I kept saying Te-he-he-he becuase it started to make me laugh which made the audience also laugh. I think this aspect made the story a lot of fun to read and get the kids interested. The pictures gave me mixed feelings. I loved the black and white pictures because they seemed so simple but still very pretty. The colored ones seemed rushed and not nearly as simple. I found the pictures with color hard to look at.
1) This book is about a little old woman who is cooking rice and she drops a rice ball down into a big hole in the ground.
They all warned her of the oni that would come and find her if she was not careful, but she kept on going trying to find her rice ball.
The little woman kept the spoon and made rice balls to sell them to all of Japan.
The Funny Little Woman was making dumplings when one of them rolled out of her kitchen and into an unknown hole in the ground.
She was given one grain of rice and a magic spoon that multiplied the grains to create enough rice to feed the house full of Onis.
After the woman had spent many days at the Oni’s house, she decided to escape, taking their magic spoon with them.
There are almost two stories being told in this book through the pictures; the story about losing the rice dumpling and finding the new world, and the story of how her house became overgrown with plants while the woman was gone.
After reading "Funny Little Woman", I found the story to be entertaining.
The woman in the story loses her dumplings and attempts to get them back but falls into a hole on the ground.
The illustrations in the story also got my attention where the main focus of the story is in color (the lady underground and dealing with the onis), whereas the less focus of the story is in black and white (the lady's house above the ground).
The "tee hee hee" I thought was funny, but I also saw it as a possible stereotype opportunity for some children.I think children will enjoy hearing/reading this story.
My review for this book will look at both the positive and negative aspects.Firstly,in terms of posi
CALDECOTTI laughed a whole lot during this book, but mostly because I was thinking in my head, "what is going on?" It starts out with the little woman's dumpling, and then her laugh "tee-he-he-he" on every other page, to her escaping from the wicked oni and becoming the richest woman in Japan that kept me smiling all the way through.
The book is light-hearted and easy to read and follow.
I would definitely recommend this book to any kids between the ages of 3 and 9, I think they would enjoy it as much as I did.
This is a funny little story, tee he he he, about a little old woman who outsmarts some wicked oni. It's an interesting story, and thankfully the illustrations do not portray the oni as being too scary. Otherwise, it might not have been a good choice to read at bedtime. Our girls liked the story, especially how the old woman laughs all the time.This book was selected as one of the books for the October 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I'm not sure what's so funny, or if this woman is one of those people who laugh at everything (I'm suspecting this, which annoys me.
I like when people have reason to laugh because otherwise she seems rather mindless) but this story was definitely very random.
Chasing a dumpling into the underworld seems like a bad idea from the get-go, and then ignoring all the troll warnings leads to the inevitable capture by trolls.
There is a certain amount of cleverness to the ending, and I do like the drawings, but overall this book was not one that thrilled me the way some Caldecott books have.
An odd little book but definitely a hit with Daughter who enjoyed looking at the pictures and narrating the story out loud. The illustrations have a "Where the Wild Things Are" feel to them.Q: What's your favorite thing about this book? A: The Oni! (Oni are trolls in Japanese folklore)Q: Would you make dinner for the Oni?A: No way!Q: If a hole opened up in our kitchen, would you go down the tunnel to check it out?A: No . . . unless I had a Batman flashlight!
This is a Japanese folktake about a "funny little woman" who find herself in a bit of trouble after she decides to chase one her rice dumplings that rolled away out of her kitchen one day. As I started to read the story, I thought is was going to be a different version of "The Gingerbread Man" but it turned out to be quite different.
What a weird fun little book.
This one was okay. I love seeing how stories are the same and still different in other cultures. For more:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/11/cal...
A cute bedtime story
Very clever illustrations that include the funny little woman's house while she is away underground cooking for the evil oni.
It's not TikiTiki, but it's still fun and worth reading.
The vocabulary words such as dumpling, rice, and Japan, supported the culture within the book.
Folktales place an emphasis on setting and this was evident from the repetition of the black/white pictures of the woman's house and the Oni's castle underground.After researching Blair Lent on Wikipedia, the medium used in the story was drawing with colored pencils and possible acrylic painting, which supported my thinking.
The reader drew meaning from the illustrations on the opposite page because they take up the entire page.I would use this book with children to teach the characteristics of a folktale.
In the absence of their dumpling maker, they formed the Plastic Oni Band.This is a weird book.
It's about a woman who lived in Japan and liked to make rice dumplings.
It falls down through the earth and she follows and gets captured by oni (basically Japanese demons) and forced to make dumplings for them using a magic paddle that turns one grain of rice into two and so forth, keeping her captive.
She gets back to home and uses the magic paddle to make rice dumplings to sell and becomes the richest woman in Japan.
This was my first read of the book; I am not a fan of the illustrations of the story itself.
This book is intended for early elementary school children.
After examining the illustrations, it seems Lent used watercolor paint and pen.
On each illustrated page, there is a section of artwork only done in pen with no color.
Lent’s pen creates a lot of detail in each scene, which is helpful to understanding the story.
I’m not sure children would enjoy the artwork in this book.
I was intrigued by the covers on the book.
This story starts with the funny little woman making dumplings, one rolls away and when she goes to reach it, both her and the dumpling fall into the ground.
Eventually she missed her house and leaves while the Oni are gone.
The only thing I didn't care for was the fact that the funny little woman was forced to be the cook.
When reading this, the feminist in my came out and quite frankly I found it a little sexist that the woman was depicted as the cook for other men.
Things that are good and therefore merit the second star: the illustrations here are delightful, feeling a little like Where the Wild Things Are in their sketch-like way and their coloring and the look of the monstrous oni.
There are plenty of details here for little ones to explore visually.
Also, I appreciated that each scene kept the woman's house at the top so you don't forget you're underground.Why it is only two stars: the story was a bit crap, honestly.
There's never an explanation of what oni really are, so cross-cultural adhesion would be more difficult.
When she was captured by the onis, they held her captive as a cook and she received a special spoon that allowed her to make triple the amount of rice she would usually be able to make.
When she returned to surface, she became the richest women because she was able to make so many dumplings with her magic spoon.
I enjoyed the layout of this book because throughout the story you see what is happening above the ground while the funny little women is below the ground being held captive.
On her journey to find her dumping, the little woman faces dangerous and scary obstacles.
The little woman faces the wicked oni on her search for her missing dumping and the wicked oni does something that was completely unexpected.
The wicked oni takes the funny little woman home with him and makes her cook for himself.
The wicked oni had a magic paddle that the little woman used while she cooked that turned a small amount of food into a tremendous amount.
For weeks and months, the funny little woman continued to cook for the wicked oni.
From “The Funny Little Woman”, it depicts the amazing journey of a little Japanese lady that cooks rice dumplings all day.
One day, one of her precious dumplings drop and fall into the earth, the little funny lady chases after it.
The lady ends ups being held captive and makes all of the Oni rise dumplings with a magic spoon.
The little funny woman manages to escape and lives happily ever after making rice dumplings and getting rich.
I would read other books from other cultures, and I would make food from the books that were significant.
