https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/508836.The_House_of_Sixty_Fathers
Here's one I've picked up for my little guy's library.
We can't resist a book with a shiny medal on the cover.
I like to read kid books between my "grownup" books because they are easier to focus on during my "book hangovers".
Okay, well now that I've read it I will declare it to be one of my new all time favorites.
I can't believe I haven't even heard of this little gem.
I cried like a baby at the end.
Don't worry about the slow start, the momentum picks up a quarter of the way through and rushes like a river toward the end.
Because, while this book is tough and raw to read for realistically portraying its subject, it’s beautifully written and acutely heartwarming.The New York Times reviewed the book as, “Not only a tense adventure story but also a moving picture of one small boy’s tenacious courage.” I give that assessment a hearty amen!The action of this book is quite gripping, but it was the pull to root for Tien Pao, this little Chinese boy, and his little piglet against all odds that was the heartthrob of the story.Tien Pao and his family have just escaped from their Japanese-attacked village that the Japanese and have escaped in their tampan, a boat, upriver to the city of Hengyang, now the 2nd largest city in China.
As they systematically descerated the land, murdering the poor peasants, bullets shot throughout the air, finding helpless targets, and in the aftermath, red fire raged through the huts, burning livestock and people within.This is a tale of Tien Pao, a brave little boy whose family fled their village in the only remaining sampan.
Unaware that one of them loosened the rope that bound the sampan to the shore, Tien Pao drifted alone as the current took him right back into the mountainous territory where the Japanese were now invading.In his journey, he miraculously rescuing an American soldier.
Sendak's art is wonderful, but not as highly personal as his work for the books he writes himself, more straightforward...
Inspired by DeJong's own experience in China.Looking forward to the reread Oct. 2018 with the Children's Books group Newbery club.....My comment there:Talk about a horror story.
And apparently the real life situation that inspired this doesn't even have the happy-ish ending that the book has.I wonder how it got published.
I certainly don't know how it could now.A fairly quick read that will haunt a reader for a long time.(Unfortunately, there are not many pages spent on the title setting.
But I can't imagine any other title fitting, can you?)
This is of the types of books I read as a second, third and fourth grader in a communist country.
Now, this particular story has a sequence of low probability events so you have to be smart when reading it to differentiate the truth from the fiction, from what is likely and what is very unlikely to happen.
But as I said I did enjoy reading the book, mostly because of my background and the memories the story brought back from my childhood and especially my grandmother who was in love with such books.
I find it was cool when Tien Pao floated away by the bulls in the water and he didn't notice that one of them undid the twig.
They floated away when the pig was running and Tien Pao was screaming and running at the same time.
I found it scary when the man didn't try to get him when it was raining with the umbrella.
It was funny when the two mans found him and it was funny when they took him to the house of sixty fathers.
Tien Pao managed to keep his pig the whole time.
I don't mean monkey gorillas, I mean soldier guerrillas.
I pre read this book as part of my children's homeschool Sonlight Core F curriculum. This book was probably one of the most heart wrenching reads I have ever read. Yet it also brought tears of joy and so much happiness into my heart. I am so thankful for having read this book. It really shows the determination of children, the kindness of strangers, and the unending love of family.
This book was not what I was expecting, pretty intense at parts and emotional to read to the kids but we all thought it was a great book and loved the ending!
Ugh. Had to read this book for school. Just so boring. :( Goes on and on and on about simple details.
Although Tian Pao seemed to be assisted in his efforts to surmount one challenge after another, the book does not sugar coat the terror of war, especially of the Japanese invasion of China in the 1930-1940s.I particularly like these two references of the horrors of war and its effect on children.
Tien Pao do you know what would happen if the river took you and that American airman?
Then one little boy began to eat mud!Tien Pao looked on horrified.
Meindert DeJong is one of the great authors at writing interesting, emotionally involved stories for younger readers, using the kind of uncomplicated sentence structures that have universal appeal while also serving as a superb introduction to fine literature.The House of Sixty Fathers is a classic type of adventure book, with the main character Tien Pao becoming hopelessly separated from his parents in China near the story's beginning.
The book follows the journey of Tien Pao, a little Chinese boy who must flee upriver during flood season with his parents, baby sister, and the family pig when Japanese bombers burn his family's village to the ground.
He witnesses a bloody battle between an American airman (whose life he saves) and Japanese ground forces, finds friendly but limited help from a group of Chinese guerillas, and falls into the greedy hands of starving and deranged old woman in the burning city where he had hoped, at last, to find his parents.
———* For any kids who have witnessed real-life violence or loss of a parent this book would likely be too traumatic.
The House of Sixty Fathers is a touching, although disturbing, children's novel.
It was written by Meindert DeJong, an award winning author, and is a Newbery Honour book itself.
The book is beautifully illustrated by Maurice Sendak.
What will he decide to do?This is a desperately sad, but tenderly told story set in China during the second Sino-Japanese War. The horror and pain of the war is portrayed with almost frightening vividness.
The illustrations add to the character of the book, but are also somewhat disturbing.
The House of Sixty Fathers is skilfully written and is definitely a must-read.
However, it was still fun to get there.As background to this book, during the 2nd Sino-Japanese War Japan invaded China.
After Japan allied itself with Germany, this Sino-Japanese War became, of sorts, part of World War II.
It is fun and exciting, but it might be a little much for younger kids as you read about villages and cities getting destroyed, people getting killed, etc.
It is also somewhat antagonistic toward the Japanese, but since this is from the point of view of a little kid who say the Japanese planes destroy his town, this is very reasonable.
The word sampan appeared probably ten times on every page for the first half of the book.
(no such luck)As the story progressed there was more action and was not so boring or redundant to read.
The plot is a nice story.
I am amazed at how long it took me to read this book.
I took three days to read what usually takes three hours.
I guess I never felt invested in the story and therefore didn't want to pick it up as often and just generally moved at a slower pace than usual.
Meindert DeJong is excellent reading for young people.
He uses a simple writing style that repeats and reinforces main themes.
And the themes of his books are glorious.In House of 60 Fathers, the Japanese are attacking the Chinese, and a little Chinese boy, the main character, gets separated from his family.
The Americans are involved, portrayed positively, and help bring him back.If you have seen the Pianist movie, it reminded me of this (except age appropriate for young people and without gratuitous violence).
Hapless person caught in the middle of the ravages of war, finds mercy and redemption.Highly recommended to introduce children to the evils of mankind.
Best children's book I have ever read.This book is a gripping story of a chinese child struggling through the Japanese invasion of China. In my opinion, it is one of the most incredible pieces of children's literature ever written. An easy read that's completely worth it.
My favorite book last year in school - it was so interesting.
so all three of them so journeyed back to where his family was along the way they met a group of men who were fighting off the Japanese and were more than willing to help Tien Pao find his mother, father, and baby sister.
he was over joyed to see that it was she called down to her husband and the whole family got reunited once again.there can be a great lesson to be leaned form this book such as people should be willing to let others help them.
The action starts immediately as Tien Pao and his family escape the horrors of the Japanese offensive during World War II and make their way up river.
From there, Tien Pao works his way back towards where his family is, running into--and helping--a downed American pilot in the process.While I just mentioned the war and America, the book is far more subtle than that.
At the same time, I love how, as heroic and well-meaning as the Americans are, they just don’t get Tien Pao or his situation, and what they think is best for him ends up not always being what is best for him.
Strangely, having named our main character in the Chinese spoken way (ie pronounced Tien Po), the author then went on to name his sister and the pet pig in a translation way, the very clunky sounding 'Beauty-of-the-Republic' and 'Glory-of-the-Republic'.
Non-Mandarin readers will know what their names mean, but not know what it sounds like in Chinese.
I wish I could ask the author what made him decide to name Tien Po one way, but his sister and pig another.On a personal note, I was very pleased to read about the rural farming Chinese as I have written a book in a similar setting.
I read this book to my 9 and 10 year old boys and they loved the story! They were completely drawn in to the world of Tien Pao.
I have mixed feelings about this book.
it's a children's book, so I would expect the language and storytelling to be simpler, given its target audience.
I've read and enjoyed children's books, but this one...
Tien-Pao loses his home and his family, and meets starving children on the road eating grass, he has been fired upon by the Japanese, he deals with starvation, and so on.
However, as this is a children's book, the ending is happy/cliched.
But the boy deserved that happiness after all the crap he went through, although in real life, many, many, many children never got that happy ending.
Newbery Honor: 1957During the Japanese invasion of China, Tien Pao becomes separated from his family as their sampan becomes unattached from the pier and floats down the river toward the Japanese-occupied area.
The House of Sixty Fathers is Tien Pao's story of survival through Japanese infested land, trying to find his way back to his parents and little sister.
Along the way, he comes across many hardships and problems, as one might suspect, not the least of which is a fallen American pilot who he somehow manages to get to medical care.
The story, although some unrealistic and unfathomable, chronicles a deep desire to survive and reunite with family.
It was really educational for them to learn how a child might try to survive if separated from his family and doing his best to not starve to death.
Tien Pao is the main character and the story starts out where he is trying to find safety with his family in a sampan boat.
My big issue with this story is that in the first half, the author uses sentences that get switched around with nearly the same exact wording a sentence or two later.
Later on in the last few pages, the same thing happens.
We read this as part of our history lessons, since this takes place when the Japanese invaded China.
It was a sweet story, but I didn't feel much suspense or angst, even though the situation of a kid floating off by himself in a river and getting lost and then getting picked up by a foreigner and brought to live with 60 random strangers, surrounded by people who didn't speak his language, trying desparately to find his parents, should have warranted some anxiety.
Maybe it was meant for younger kids, and for younger kids it's probably a good fit-gives a taste of what it was like for a young boy during this invasion, without being too graphic or upsetting.
I tend to like to read heavy, thought-provoking books, and in between, when I need something light, I turn to award-winning 'Young Adult' books. I read this in an afternoon, and it was just what I hoped for ... a book that teaches something about history I didn't know, introduces a young boy who demonstrates both courage and compassion, and weaves an adventure that kept me on the edge of my seat. What a great book for young people to read, especially during a time when we are perhaps a bit short on heroes.
A story of perseverance. Difficult times and the kindness of strangers.
De Jong was a favorite author of mine as a child. I still remember Hurry Home, Candy vividly, an absolute heartbreak of a story, but I had never heard of this particular title. De Jong delivers emotionally wrought subjects to children, in detailed plots with happy endings. They are suspenseful and beautifully illustrated. They teach compassion, and I hope they will be read and re-read for generations to come.
Noah and I read this together as part of his current unit on China. It was new to him but not to me. We loved it! A really great book about a young chinese boy who is separated from his family during war time and his journey with the family pig to find his family. He is helped along the way by many kind people and in the end by an American air unit. It is a terrific read!
