https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6621010-hypnos
The ending, when it comes, is unexpected, yet not really surprising, considering the voice of the man who embodies the story.The narrator is a English sculptor who tells us how he meets a bearded man destined to be "his only friend" when the bewhiskered fellow collapses in a London train station and our sculptor takes him home to his flat.
Henry in its cuteness, but the mention of vast cosmic spaces (a prefiguring of H.P.'s later efforts), the use of mind-altering drugs, the heavy dose of narcissism, the little pinch of homoeroticisim, together with an allusion to relativity and Albert Einstein ("the man with Oriental eyes") together make for interesting reading.
What better time to read a short story about the undefined horrors discovered in the realms of drug-induced dreaming, then after waking in the middle of the night from an unfocused, mildly distressing dream of my own.
Lovecraft captures the amorphous qualities of nightmares, without rendering them utterly drab and boring like most people do when describing their own dreams.
How many times have you heard something like "I dreamed I was in my kitchen, and...
While Lovecraft continuously chews around the edges of the actual terrors seen by the protagonist, he never describes it or them directly, and yet, he manages to imply just enough to allow the better imaginations to run wild.

3.5As in most Lovecraft's dream stories, you are introduced to an (usually) unknown character, a sculptor, who suspects there is something more beyond dreams.
Only few dare to try to find out more about that world.Then he meets a beautiful stranger and recognizes his own wishes in the man.
They start living together, travelling through dreams until one day his friend manages to go further than the narrator.
Hypnos gets pretty close to a romantic story.That brings the fear of dreaming, fear of sky and these two realize they mustn't be caught sleeping.(Found at sffaudio.com)  The heartbreaking and unexplained, open ending is what makes this story extraordinary.
High art. Great pacing and subject matter.
One thing I appreciate about Lovecraft: his yearning for the extraordinary comes through clearly, but he consistently portrays his narrators as corrupted either by power or madness due to their dabbling in the forbidden realms.
(I would say this is another unknowable terror story, but the themes are clearer as the total body of his work shapes up.) (view spoiler)[The unreliable narrator actually makes this one work instead of detracting.
(hide spoiler)](Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept.
2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
The main character, a sculptor, starts conversing with a sculpture as a stand-in for a friend and they "travel" to different places.
The title is less allegorical and more literal in the sense the character seems to lose chunks of time every time he realizes he is awake which is an insinuation to relativity.
I wasn't able to figure out if all of the experiences were real or the character was writing about it while spending time at an asylum.Its a very interesting narrative with layers upon layers of motif throughout the story.
Lovecraft's Dream Cycle and fantasy oriented stuff has never been my favorite. That being said, the concept of taking drugs or practicing certain techniques to pierce through your dreams and access unknown states of consciousness is cool. Who knows what you'll find, and as these dudes discover, it ain't pretty. It's like Carlos Castaneda on a bad trip. Wasn't as keen on the sort of ambiguous ending though, but it worked.
6/10
The moment the man opens his "immense, sunken and widely luminous eyes", the narrator knows that the stranger would become his friend, "the only friend of one who had never possessed a friend before".
In the eyes of the stranger he sees the knowledge of the mysteries he always sought to learn.
He will soon learn that those secrets are better to be left unknown.This early story is quite dull, and the only interesting element is the strong chemistry between the narrator and his mysterious friend.
Still, reading this story, I wonder if he was also attracted to men, and was unable to come to terms with the fact.

За вже звичним для Лавкрафта сюжетом, двоє друзів шукають плрятунку від реального світу у снах. Для ширших відчуттів вони експериментують з наркотиками. Словами неможливо передати те, що вони переживають у своїх снах, тому що сни вимагають вже наступного рівня сприйняття. В одній зі своїх подорожей одного з друзів зупиняє перешкода, в той час як другий продовжує свій політ фантазій. Прокинувшись, він перестає бути на себе схожим: щось химерне він побачив там, куди перший не зміг потрапити. І відтоді вони змушені будь-яким чином уникати сну і того, що він ховає.
Lovecraft takes an everyday activity and injects it with a huge dose of fear and terror.The characters and story are wonderfully painted and drawn. The tension builds slowly and inexorably.The story is cleverly woven around the basic premise, and the source of madness is never clearly defined, leaving the reader with genuine tension and unease.A nice twist at the end leaves you even more unsettled.
This book is a great example of how Lovecraft was the master of horror from the far realms. He gets us so close yet safely away from the evil we know is there but we can not find. He reveals the tapestry that our paranoid minds explain is there, and our sain neighbor says, "No it is not there."Lovecraft, with Hitchcock were masters in great use of tension and conflict that scares one silly.
Lovecraft forges some beautiful, atmospheric prose, but sometimes, as in the case of "Hypnos", his tales lack substance. Of course, the unanswered questions and ambiguous execution leaves open an opportunity for plenty of speculation, I'd just like to actually appreciate some of these characters before they become subsumed by the outer dark.
Viajes oníricos mediante drogas, y un horror te invita a enloquecer... Qué gran relato. <3
Extremely efficient horror.
very interesting but leaved some questions o.o enjoyable
A good example of Lovecraft's characteristic style.
My favorite of his dream cycle. I can close my eyes and almost see it.
Short story hearkening back to a few other earlier stories by Lovecraft, with an interesting twist ending.
Well. That was pretty gay.
intricate but elegant descriptive story. compelling.
This is a very good short story of Lovecraft, read it guys.
ჩემი აზრით ძალიან კარგი მოკლე ისტორიაა ^ ^
This story evokes a sensation of melancholy, rather than of horror.
Atmosferičnost je ostvarena i bolje od prosjeka za Lovecrafta.U sadržajnom smislu ogledava se utjecaj koji je Lovecraft imao na Tribusona jer sama radnja ove novele podsjeća jako na radnju Tribusonova romana "Snijeg u Heilderbergu".
Dvojica prijatelja koji shvaćaju uskogrudnost i ograničenost scijentističke dogme i nemogućnost koherentnosti ateističke simfonije (hvala predsjedniku Kekistana na ovom izrazu, i da jedan od mojih prijatelja i u životu i na ovoj mreži je predsjednik Kekistana, tako sam kul) zagnjure u spiritizam i okultni paganizam koji ih oslobađa jednog užasa i uvodi u drugi užas.Svaki pravi šišmiš treba ovo pročitati.Bilo bi prelijepo visjeti s Lovecraftom sa spiljskog svoda...Hasta luego!
The one thing you have to love about Lovecraft is that your mind starts out going 'Hmmm' wondering what's going on, and then not long after you get the 'Nopenopnope!' moments. I don't want to give away any of it, but I had a few of those. Especially the thing in the sky.
Spectacularly peculiar.
A really bad drug trip. Don't do drugs people, or it will haunt your dreams!Not my favourite Lovecraft. The build-up was a let down of sorts, with its rather abrupt ending.
