https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1365825.Andy_and_the_Lion
An exciting story on the Mouse and the Lion from Aesop's Fables. The whole book is orange, black and white with extreme energy in the drawings. The drawings feel modern with all the action in them. This is a book from the 30s. For some reason James decided to split sentences on one page to the next as a cliff hanger. Yeah, I didn't like that. It was annoying.My nephew did think this was a fun story. I can see why this one won the honor.
I liked it as a boys' fantasy, written back in the day, and actually believe it has a bit of an *anti* hunting message.
(I believe the same of another controversial Caldecott book, The Biggest Bear).I liked the structure, the way a reader is pushed to turn the pages by each interrupted sentence - sort of a cliffhanger idea.
well, I didn't like that Andy's parents were so very perturbed the boy was reading through dinner, but then, even in my family of avid readers we were expected to put the book down and have a family dinner together....
This book is about the world of imagination unfolded in reading books: Andy and the Lion is dedicated to the two cast lions that guard the New York Public Library, the opening page sees Andy following his dog to his local library, and the final page finds Andy returning to the library reading along the way.
The story in between builds on Andy's interest in lions, passes through his dream about hunting a lion, and evolves into a chance encounter with an escaped circus lion.
When Andy returns his book to the library followed by the lion, we both find ourselves in the story but also catching Daugherty's wink that maybe it's all the young boy's imagination...or is it?
The story is skillfully layered with an imaginative telling.
I fell in love with Andy and the Lion the first time I gazed at the cover. The book was a living thing to me. The story, the illustrations-perfection. I have read this book hundreds of times. It is a classic every child should own.
3.5 STARSAs for "Andy and the Lion" (apologies, my link to the book is not working), I had mixed feelings.
I tried to see it as a child, especially a young boy, of the day would see it--putting himself in Andy's position on the thrilling visits to the circus and hunting lions.
Beginning with the dedication, to the lion statues in front of the New York Public Library, on through with checking out the book about lions, the adventures with the lion (book) the ending where the boy is returning his lion book (and having with him the lion, and all he had learned and experienced through his book), it was such a great love story about all the fabulous places books can take you!
I am reading early Caldecott winners and honors with the picture book club on the Children's Book group.
Andy reads a book about lions and begins to dream about lions and think about lions until one day he meets a lion.
He is scared and runs around a rock...and so does the lion.
Andy is able to help the lion and they become friends.
Andy does dream about hunting lions early in the book which will be troublesome to some readers, I imagine, but because it was a dream and the whole book has a magical quality to it, I was not bothered by this.
There are so many things I love about this book. The way the "run-on" sentences pull the reader through the book. The way the words and pictures work together so closely. The joy of the relationship between the boy and the lion. And of course that it all begins and ends with a book from the library. I do love it so.
1939 Caldecott HonorI loved seeing all of the details in the picture like his dog peeking around the bookshelf in the library and the headline in the newspaper that his dad was reading. Funny how Andy's parents are dressed up in a very fancy way, but he is barefoot and in overhauls.
This book is about a boy named Andy who loves to read.
Before he went to bed his grandfather told him a story about hunting lions in Africa.
In the second part of the book, Andy heads off to school.
It was the same lion Andy had helped earlier in the story.
I think that they story is a bit confusing because of the way it is written.
Sentences are broken up between pages so it makes the reading choppy.
It would be best suited for the 3rd grade reading level because of the strange way that the pages are broken up.
This was going to be my 'book from my childhood' for my reading challenge, and then I found THE LITTLE LAME PRINCE.
Here, it's an adventure story, a silly story...a kid's story.
Andy lives in a frontier town and walks to school barefoot.
It's a miracle HE didn't get a thorn in HIS paw...but instead it's the lion, which inexplicably ends up in the little town.
Good deed done, Andy toddles off to school.
The payoff for his kindness occurs when the circus comes to town, and Andy saves the day.
And on the very last page, he finally returns the library book that inspired the adventure.
The story of Andy and the Lion has three parts.
The first part introduces us to Andy, him grabbing a book on lions, and then after reading the entire day listening to his grandpa tells stories of hunting lions.
I take that it is real but they don’t ever give much about a lion appearing by school.
Part 3 brings a circus to town where Andy runs into the lion he helped.
There is a lot of talk of a lion in this story but the first to parts have little to no interaction with the lion and there is very little in the third part.
This is another good book about having imagination. It is about a young boy named Andy whose grandfather reads him a story . Then the following day meets a lion and helps out a lion who has a thorn stuck. Later he meets the same lion again at the circus after almost being attacked. I believe that the Arthur is telling readers that once you become friends with anyone that time can past and when meeting them once again the friendship starts from where it was left off.
The reason for giving this five is that it really gets underneath a little boy's skin! This book just goes over and over again before bed and the illustrations are great! I know it's probably not politically correct or correct for the save the whales crowd, but great for young kids!
Its just a story and VERY CUTE.
Of the 1939 Caldecott award winners this is the one I would have chosen. It is a very fun and imaginative and we loved the pictures and story.
Andy reads about lions and then meets a lion and helps him. I liked the ending--it shows Andy going back to the library for more books!
Nice story about a boy and lion, a la St. Jerome, accompanied by attractive multicolored lino print style illustrations. The text is short and is good to read aloud. Feels old-timey in a good way without being dated.
The first thing I saw in this book was the dedication that reads: “To Lady Astor and Lord Lenox, the library lions who have so long sat in front of the New York Public Library and with such complacent good nature and forbearance looked down on the Manhattan parade”I’m not really sure what’s supposed to be real or not in this story, but I think that’s the point: that books are magical and can transport you.
This book introduced me to the term bed clothes which I think is really fascinating / funny.
Clothes for your bed!
The plot is as old as storytelling - a Depression-era re-telling of Androcles and the Lion.
It's the illustrations that really make this 1939 Caldecott Honor the cat's pajamas: Daugherty's wood cuts (?) are pure 1930s Americana; a striking example of American Regionalism in the style of American Gothic's Grant Wood, with some Ozian Denslow thrown in (my favorite is Andy's mother waving goodbye to him from the front porch as he goes off to school, which could almost be a storboard for the musical Oklahoma).
A striking book, if you love American art from this time period.
So,while reading this book I felt a special kinship with the young boy in overalls named Andy who does just that, along with his trusty dog Prince.Besides my personal association to the story, Author James Daugherty's book has a literary legacy as a classic of children's literature.
Andy obliges and that singular act of helping one in need has an impact on future events in the story, which involves a circus coming to town.While the timeless themes of courage and compassion are present in the book (as well as the value of public libraries.
Seventy-one years before Jerry Pinkney's The Lion and the Mouse won the 2010 Randolph Caldecott Medal, the esteemed James Daugherty received (retroactively, at least) a Caldecott Honor for his own version of the classic fable.
Lions are all Andy has on his mind since picking up a book from the local library and eagerly devouring its information.
I don't consider Andy and the Lion James Daugherty's best work, but the theme of selflessness and kindness is quietly present throughout, and has value.
I would at least consider giving Andy and the Lion one and a half stars.

This version of Aesop's lion-hearted fable was interesting.
The tale of a little boy who helped a lion in need was a little confusing at times.
That may have been the point.The cinnamon and black illustrations were full of movement and made me think of stop action photography.
I was not fond of the way the lion or Andy's dog were drawn.
They looked emaciated, way to many ribs.
My son thought that made them look more realistic though.
Once again my son and I have converged on a rating of 4.
He LOVED the illustrations and thought the story was exciting.
I read this book when I was a child (it was old then) and it brought such a wave of nostalgia, I don't think I can give it an unbiased review.
Yes, yes, there is hunting and circuses in the book -- it was written in the 1930s and times were different then (please note I did not say they were right).
I find many of the not politically correct books from the early 1900s give a great starting point for discussions with my 6 year old.
The illustrations are dated, of course, because the book is dated.
Andy gets a book about lions from the library.
It casts a spell over him and he reads it and reads it all the way up until bedtime.
Throughout hsi day, lions are never far from Andy's mind.
On his way to school, Andy crosses paths with a lion!
Finally, the lion bravely offers his wounded paw with a thorn stuck in it to Andy who ready with a pair of pliers in his back pocket yanks it out.
The two unlikely friends cross paths once more when the circus comes to town and the lion escapes the ring during the act and reunites with Andy in the audience.
Fun read aloud!
Must read/see!
Andy is just a little obsessed with lions.
He lives on Grandpa's tales of lion hunting in Africa and a book of lions he checked out of the library.
One day, on the way to school, what should Andy run into, but a real, live lion!
Andy saves the lion again and is awarded for bravery by the town.A retelling of Androcles and the Lion set in 1930s America.
The story is still relatable for modern little kids, and it's a fun retelling of the ancient tale.
Andy's a humorous little boy with his head consumed by lions so much, you aren't quite sure if the lion is real at first.
Andy and the Lion is similar to The Biggest Bear, but a bit more whimsical.
I enjoyed that Andy’s entire adventure with the lion originates with a library book, and that there is room in the story to believe that it really happened, or to believe everything happened in Andy’s imagination.
I also noted the scene where the lion gets a thorn in his paw as similar to what happens in The Lion and the Mouse - could it be that this is one of the stories Andy read that got him so interested in lions to begin with?
I love how by the end of the story you're questioning what actually happened, which opens the door for discussion with your child.The difficult part of this book was the style and layout - the sentences that justcame to a stop on one page and then continued on the next.
While this took some getting used to, it also serves to keep the reader turning the pages to find out what happens next.
Overall this book was fun and I'm glad I picked it up.
The book tells the story of Andy, a young boy who loves to read and check out library books, his current fascination being lions.
One day on the way to school, he finds a lion with a thorn in his paws, which Andy quickly take out and they go their separate ways.
Suddenly, the lions escape and just as Andy is about to be eaten by one, his lion recognizes him and they are so happy to see each other.
Andy is awarded a medal for bravery and the lion follows him to the library the next day to get more books.
Andy and the Lion was a very cute and invent fill book.
I liked the storyline of this book as it went through what felt like one day when really it was multiple days.
The lion I thought in the beginning was going to be bad and mean from the story the grandfather told but ended up that they became friends.
I like how the author told the story through the child’s perspective.
I liked how they author made the story so interesting and had a surprise ending to the story.
Overall this was a very cute and fun story for children.
