https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2467144.The_Acceptance_World
3 -- The ACCEPTANCE WORLD With the third period of the Dance, we track the configuration of stronger connections. The complex web formed by love affairs, marriages, work associations and cousin-ships continues to spin itself—along time. Just as it happens in life. Fittingly, Powell writes: ..nothing in life is planned—or everything is—because in the dance every step is ultimately the corollary of the step before; the consequence of being the kind of person one chances to be. If on the second pe
..nothing in life is planned—or everything is—because in the dance every step is ultimately the corollary of the step before; the consequence of being the kind of person one chances to be.
The painterly and literary references continue to abound in the third volume and that to me is part of the entertainment in reading this saga, although they require an easier complementary exploration than with Proust.
Writers also pen themselves in, but so far form a smaller population in the Dance.
This novel certainly feels like a chain of riddles.Along with the shaping of the ongoing plot—mostly the interrelationships of the characters—what keeps my reading impetus is the élan of Powell’s writing.
Occult sciences unexpectedly work, all the commotion round about arts is mostly futile and politics is a sheer caricature…And only love reigns over everybody – a whole lot of love that is somewhat on the bittersweet side.There is always a real and an imaginary person you are in love with; sometimes you love one best, sometimes the other.You are ready to be accepted by the world. But is the world ready to accept you?
This is the third volume in the twelve novel, “Dance to the Music of Time.” The books are organised in terms of the seasons and so the first three novels are the Spring of our narrator’s life, consisting of A Question of Upbringing, A Buyer’s Market and The Acceptance World.
At the end of A Buyer’s Market, we found Nick Jenkins feeling slightly dissatisfied with his life and career.
Nick stays with Peter Templer and his new wife, Mona, has a love affair, visits an art exhibition, sees a demonstration with some unlikely participants and attends an Old Boys dinner.
The spring of love becomes hidden and soon filled up.-- Max Muller"Emotional crises always promote the urgent need for executive action, so that the times when we most hope to be free from the practical administration of life are always those when the need to cope with the concrete world is more than ever necessary"-- Anthony Powell, The Acceptance WorldThere is something amazing about Powell's attempt to gather the passage of time, the progression of life, the dynamic of relationships over 12 novels.
So, I'm done with Book 3, done with 'the Acceptance World', and done with Spring.
The narrator, Nick Jenkins, now in his late twenties, is facing decision times in his own life regarding his career path (he publishes his first novel), his love life ('it's complicated'), and his social life (reuniting with old school friends and making new acquaintances).
Over the course of this third novel, Nick starts to examine the metaphorical, universal symbolism of this business system: When, in describing Widmerpool's new employment, Templer had spoken of 'the Acceptance World', I had been struck by the phrase.
Anthony Powell's third book in his lovely "A Dance to the Music of Time" series is set in Great Britain in the early 1930s.
Le Bas hosts a reunion of his former students at the Ritz, an opportunity for Nick to catch up with his upper class friends who are working their way up the business ladder.
Nick becomes involved again with his first love, but it's questionable whether the relationship will last.
So it's on to book four to see where the dance of time will take Nick Jenkins and his friends in 1934.
Some that seemed to have the world at their feet have squandered their gifts, whilst others who were more pitiful in their younger incarnations are enjoying success.The economic gloom that characterised the 1930s seems to permeate this part of "A Dance to the Music of Time", despite this, The Acceptance World is supremely enjoyable.This volume introduces a hint of mysticism, a new character called Myra Erdleigh tells Nick's fortune through the ancient practice of cartomancy (reading ordinary playing cards) and, later in the story, there is an incident with a planchette.
I'll give this third book in the 12 part series another 4 stars, but the entire 3 books in this volume would rate a 5. It takes us from school days and through their twenties of Nick Jenkins and his school mates. I feel as if I know them all quite well now, and care about the rest of their lives. This finishes the Spring portion of The Dance of Time.
I just adore this series, the slow episodic twisting and turning, the rich characterisation, the elegant writing and philosophical discussions - what a book!
In this work, written as are all the novels by Nick in the first person, he provides longer passages of philosophical musings, revealing much more about himself, Powell having made this the most introspective of the three novels and, to my mind, the most moving.The “acceptance world” in the title, by the way, refers to the branch of the financial sector involved in buying foreign commodities on speculation, something Widmerpool has taken up.
Anthony Powell changed his writing style between books 2 and 3 of "A Dance to the Music of Time".
Whether this is because he was writing about the thirties and felt the need to pare things down a bit, or because his editor told him to do so, I must admit that this volume was easier to read.
The mere fact of still existing as a human being proved that."This concludes the first volume of the sequence, subtitled "Spring", so I shall pause here and read a couple of different authors before returning to Powell's magnum opus.

There are quite a lot of meals of some sort or other in this book (probably in the previous two as well, but I don't remember them so vividly there: I think parties were a bigger focus in A Buyer's Market.Towards the end of this book the three characters who are most to the fore in the series, Stringham, Widmerpool and of course the narrator, Nick Jenkins, come together for the first time in some years.
It's plain that it helps to read the series as a whole within a shortish period of time; say a year, rather than leaving a long gap between any two volumes (as I did between the first and second).
Here we find Nicholas starting to blossom as a writer and as an employee of a publishing firm, and also as a person, with his first full blown love story.
In all this, however, our main character and hero is still somewhat to the sidelines - his writing career has not picked up, and his love life could be at a dead end..
My favorite of the first three.
Most of the cast of couples that forms and parts through the book are subject to much speculation around the motives of attraction, while the progress of his own relationship is told across brief, sketched vignettes - he and his lover are hardly ever alone together, and he's more often found observing others at what turn out (inevitably) to be pivotal moments.If the narrator were more demonstrative, the Dance would be a very different (and more ordinary) kind of a novel.
Really enjoyable. More a 4.5 star book. After book 3 in the series, I am starting to feel like I am with old friends and acquaintances. Just as in life, I enjoy some of them and get very frustrated with others. My guess is that I am going to get more and more involved and care more about the characters as I continue the series.
The art book remains unpublished, the introduction unwritten, and St. John Clarke has ridden himself of his secretary Mark Members and taken on instead Quiggin – both of whom Jenkins knew at the university and who each seem to be forever associated with the other in the minds of most people.
He was being propelled along the road, in unison, by Quiggin and Mona Templer.‘My God’ said Members, quite quietly.”  During the constant round of social events that pepper the year, Jenkins does run into Mrs Erdleigh, about a year after they had first met.
More of the same, which is mostly a good thing.This is round three (3) in Powell's extraordinary period piece, which, thankfully, the University of Chicago has brought to the world of Kindles and e-readers.As literary fiction - and, frankly, historical fiction - goes, I'm enjoying it immensely, although I'm far more taken with the whole (the story line, the slow evolution, the maturation of the characters, the relentless march of time) than any of the individual volumes (which, alas, are probably 100 pages shorter than I'd like, but it is what it is).
After two books of character establishment, it seems Powell is now starting to peak into each consciousness and see what they are made of.
This might be because now the characters are older they are getting into adult situations and therefore, experience adult, deadpan humour.
This, coupled with Powell's consistently excellent prose makes the overall reading experience enjoyable.One aspect I wasn't expecting to be touched on was the political and social atmosphere of the time.
It takes happenstance to the very edges of believability and worked to jerk me out the reading experience.
It's acceptable that this social strata would come into contact while enjoying a ball or party.
But if you aren't really into them, but simply like a long drawn out yarn, beautifully written, spanning a large part of the 20th century, this series will entrance you.The parallels with Evelyn Waugh's work (a mixture of Brideshead Revisited and the Sword of Honour series) are striking, in subject matter, atmosphere and style.
I'm pleased to have read recently that Waugh greatly admired Powell, who must be one of the most underrated writers of the 20th century.This volume, published in 1955 (the year of my birth, so it holds a special place in my consciousmess), has our protagonists embarking on their first taste of serious adulthood.
I just love this series so far--the characters, the wry sense of humor, how the writing just sweeps you along.
It's all oh-so-British, and I love the pervasive fascination with human behavior, how people change over time.
Though these books are laugh-out-loud funny, they aren't mere comedic romps or cardboard satire: the narrator's insight is often shockingly incisive, and there is real compassion for even the most ridiculous characters.
and this book; since so many of the characters are recurring, it's best to have a fresh memory of the previous volumes.
Three from twelve...now one fourth into 'A Dance to the Music of Time," Powell's multi-novel saga.
The experience grows richer as we follow Powell's characters as they establish careers and relationships.
Stringham, who was peripheral in 'A Buyer's Market,' reappears, sadly dissolute and with his marriage failed.
Templer, although successful financially, also sees his wife leave, and Nick, surprisingly, takes up with Templer's sister, Jean.
And there is the rather startling ascendance of Widmerpool and the comic antics of Uncle Giles and others in the large cast.
If it sounds like a sophisticated soap opera, that's true, with the enhanced value of Powell's always cogent observations on life and love.
I think—typical me that after 59 readings I can still be uncertain—this is the last time in the sequence that we see Jenkins, Templer, Stringham, and Widmerpool in the one setting. Ever more moved by Chapter 5 in which the colossal rearrangement of the universe occurs and Widmerpool becomes the agent to Stringham’s alcoholic patient. Together with Chapter 3 of Casanova’s Chinese Restaurant, the end of TAW explores Stringham’s alcoholism in dark, sympathetic, judgmental, open-minded, furious, calming terms. “So familiar,” as in the Blue Oyster Cult line, “like last life’s nursery rhyme.”
I'm having such a wonderful time on this journey through the Dance series. Having finished the third book, I feel thoroughly drawn into Nick's world; happy to visit with friends and acquaintances as they whirl in and out of his immediate experience. Although, I suspect I'm going to reread the whole thing again in order to truly appreciate not only the characters, but the commentary on the times in which they live. There's just so much to take in! Not that I'm complaining. I definitely feel immersed floating in a river of language and impression.
This was the 3rd installment of Anthony Powell's Dance to the Music of Time. The theme of this volume is the uneven pace at which characters mature. I loved this quote from the book, "People can only be themselves, if they possessed the qualities you desire in them, they would be different people." I found this novel very entertaining and look forward to reading the next installment.
My introduction to Powell, all those years ago. Still a favourite within the Dance sequence.
And when they’re pushed against each other in the back seat of the car on their way, he ‘took Jean in my arms.’ On arrival, they arrange a secret assignation in her room…Mrs Erdleigh’s observation seems amiss: certainly, we’re not privy to any strong emotions from Nick: ‘… my own violent feelings about Jean which had to be reduced inwardly to some manageable order.’ Later, he observes, ‘There is always an element of unreality, perhaps even of slight absurdity, about someone you love.’ (p94) And he’s rather critical of the fair sex in general: ‘all that unreasoning bitterness and mortification to which women are so subject.’ (p108) And: ‘A measure of capriciousness is, after all, natural in women; perhaps fulfils some physiological need for both sexes.’ (p111) On the other hand, when Jean opens the door to welcome Nick, she is naked: ‘There is, after all, no pleasure like that given by a woman who really wants to see you.’ (p145)He is aware of a strange possessiveness.
In 1955, Powell published Book III, titled The Acceptance World.At the end of my last post about the series, I posed a question concerning Powell’s titles.
The title comes from a phrase delivered by Templer (one of Nick’s university friends and one of the central figures of the series) when he describes the profession that Widmerpool is moving into.
When Nick asks what the Acceptance World is, Templer replies: If you have goods you want to sell to a firm in Bolivia, you probably do not touch your money in the ordinary way until the stuff arrives there.
Powell's got a real knack for this... on to the next one!
