https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1171378.The_Incompleat_Enchanter
Another thing on my Recommendations list that I'd read long ago.
I don't know what it is about de Camp but he simply doesn't do anything for me.
The supposed humor was a masquerade at cuteness (and not the good kind of cuteness but the insufferably smug kind), and the action, well, he has this thing for sword fighting and you get endless descriptions of stuff you have no idea of what's going on.
Good for you if you like this stuff; read it and enjoy.
Never thought I'd see the day where Frege's definition of a number is a key plot point in a fantasy novel...
Of the incomplete enchanter books the first was clearly the best which is why I have given it five stars and the complete enchanter four.
Its awesome as he realises that his old magic as it were (things such as matches) won't work any longer in these new worlds, but new versions, things such as epic rhyming poetry type spells will.The book is well written, the characters come to life, and one of them returns to the 'real' world with him, and its a lot of fun.
Connection between fantasy and realism in this book is so embarrassingly stupid I don't even have to mention main character is a total patsy to justify my rating.
I read this book over 50 years ago, and enjoyed it almost as much this time as I did then.
I'd forgotten how funny it was or maybe I didn't fine it funny back then.
It was one of the first alternate-universe books I read and that has turned into my favorite variety of SF.
(Maybe I'll re-read it now.) So, back then, I enjoyed the Norse myth story much more.
Maybe because of his sexist attitudes, even though de Camp and Pratt counter-balance them with the warrior women in their source.
This volume is the first of a series in which the protagonist, Harold Shea, is whisked away to parallel universes modeled on the myths in our own world. The tone is light and comic, absolute fun to read. I must have been subconsciously channeling when I wrote The Riddle of the Seven Realms.
The stories were written in the 1930s and 40s, yet they entertain an idea of a multiverse, that all the fantastic worlds imagined by recorders of Norse mythology in the Prose and Poetic Eddas, and Edmund Spenser's Fairie were people with psychiatric conditions allowed glimpses of other universes which, according to a small coterie of psychologists, one could project oneself into and experience completely.A neat idea, and obviously derivative, but it's the familiarity with characters in these worlds that make them enjoyable.
It's a story you enjoy because you recognize the characters and the world, and you get to go on a brief adventure with them.
The first story, with Harold Shea encountering the old norse gods, is absolutely magnificent, and on a par with Lest Darkness Fall. Hilarious and a great comment on what it means to encounter people from a different millieu. The second, which is a light-hearted look at the Faerie Queen is rather substandard, maybe because the author hasn't really come to grips with Spenser's work and doesn't seem to relate to it as well as he did with Norse mythology. The first story is definitely five stars and more
Harold Shea seemed a bit too obtuse in the first part of the first half of the book: we figure out what’s going on long before he does, which makes his choices seem stupid.In his defense, all the best-laid plans of mice and men often fail to survive first contact with an evil DM.The only real problem I had with their logic was that knowledge of the two basic laws of magic—contagion and similarity—allowed them to create complex spells.
It was meant to be a fun bit of wish-fulfillment about moderns with magic, and it did that very well.
Sprague de Camp and Fletcher Pratt (Unknown, May 1940)Professor Harold Shea discovers a way to transport himself back to a time of ancient legend.
Sprague de Camp and Fletcher Pratt (Unknown, Aug 1940)Shea and his mentor, Reed Chalmers, decide to try travelling through time again, this time landing in the medieval world of Spenser’s The Faerie Queene.
I didn’t enjoy this story as much as “The Roaring Trumpet,” but that may simply be because I am not very familiar with Spenser’s original work.These are lighthearted stories that greatly benefit from knowing the literary source material of the worlds Shea travels to.
It has a decent hook; namely, a handful of scientists and psychologists devise a mathematical formula that pushes people into alternate universes, and for some handwave-y reason these universes are based off existing myths and stories.
This book includes two stories: in the first, Harold Shea, the protagonist, travels solo to the world of Norse mythology, shortly before Ragnarok; in the second, he and another scientist travel to Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene.That said, it's pretty old.
At least the second story has several interesting women characters.
Weird psychologists find a way to travel to fictional worlds through magic performed via complex formal logic.
The worlds they travel to are worlds of our myths and legends, and there the magic they can use depends on the narrative style, lexicon etc the original opera's author used.
So they often have to invent some sorts of poem, appropriate for the setting, to get the desired effect - and while one of the two psychologists avoids trouble and try to focus on understanding said magic, the other, Harold Shea, enjoys the time he gets outside of his grey, dull world - by putting himself in danger, saving attractive females (or being saved by them) and living fully.
One of those good old literature hopping humour stories. In these Harold Shea transports himself into the myths of Viking legend and then the world of Edmund Spenser's Faerie Queene. I wouldn't say it is laugh out loud funny but is a nice romp and adventure nonetheless.I must say I enjoyed the first half more than the second but that may well by the result of my familiarity with Norse Myth over Spenser's writings.
Stupendo libro, assoluta poesia. L'ho adorato per la sua particolarità, per come giustifica l'esistenza della magia, l'esistenza dei mondi fantastici stessi, per l'assoluta logica e indiscussa varietà della storia. Meraviglioso, non esagero nel dire che sia uno dei fantasy che in assoluto mi è piaciuto di più.
This book was on my dad's shelf growing up, somewhere around where he kept Asimov, Aspirin, Heinlein, and so many others. I'm never really objective when reviewing, but here even less than normal. It's a part of my childhood. I wonder what I would think if I read it now?
Very, very funny fantasy! Some scientists discover a formula that allows them to visit alternate worlds, and they do: the world of Scandinavian Mythology, and the world of Spenser's Faerie Queen, with hilarious results!
Loved this when I was in my teens. Dunno what I would think of it now, and would rather like to reread it someday to see. For now, consider this the rating of my young self, who might very well be wiser about these things than I am today.
Very funny fantasy series. Great read. Very recommended
Piacevole e divertente, inoltre ti costringe a cercare i miti a cui si rifà per capire come dovrebbero andare le cose e comportarsi i personaggi incontrati :)))
A strange book in as much as written in the American vernacular, but very enjoyable all the same.
Fabulous book!! Everything your looking for in an adventure book!!
I enjoyed this light, fun tale of time-travel into mythical worlds.
Harold Shea in a parallel world or two. Nordic mythology and Spenser's Fairy Queene offer settings where magic works.
This book of two connected stories is rather like Poul Anderson's A Midsummer Tempest in concept. The device employed for the transition between worlds is interesting.
Really fun read - a bit frustrating at times
This was one that belonged to my dad and I really wanted to like it, but I couldn't get to chapter 3. I couldn't understand the language or the plot.
