https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107048.The_Golden_Triangle
Le triangle d'or = The Golden Triangle (Arsène Lupin #8), Maurice Leblancعنوان: مثلث طلایی؛ نویسنده: موریس لبلان؛
The rest of the story carries on in grand Lupin style-- and I'll say I've been a huge fan of every book til now-- and would be fantastic if Leblanc hadn't decided to go with horrifically racist "comic relief." One of Lupin's comrades-in-arms is a Senegalese soldier who lost an arm in battle, and who is nicknamed Ya-Bon because severe facial injuries leave him unable to speak and it's a sound he often makes.
Will try again with the next Lupin book and hope against hope it's better.
'If you love me,' he said, 'you must obey me and save your life. Believe me, it is a hundred times more painful for me to die with you than to die alone. If I know that you are free and alive, death will be sweet to me.'
Un Arsène Lupin très agréable à lire, avec son lots de rebondissements et de bons mots. Une lecture légère parfaite pour se détendre. Seul regret: l'intrigue n'est pas aussi bien ficelée et il est relativement aisé de deviner une partie du mystère.
Un roman haletant comme Leblanc sait si bien les écrire ! Cependant, il y manque la verve et la gouaille d'Arsène Lupin. On dirait presque que les années de guerre (l'histoire se situe entre 1914 et 1918) ont réussi à assombrir le 'primesaut' du gentleman cambrioleur...
My least favourite Lupin book so far. I would not recommend it. The plot is weak and not as exciting as in other books of the series.
Aventure aussi excitante que d'habitude. Petite déception de ne pas avoir plus d'Arsène Lupin toutefois.
This book is greatIt is so typical of Maurice Leblanc, but I like how she popped the main character in the middle of the story.This story told about a secret between Patrice and Coralie.An ex soldier who has his leg amputated but still stay strong and confident in his life.
Mme Esseres, that known as Coralie's husband.They got involve in mysterious thing once Patrice recieve a letter and key, and those two things made Patrice and Coralie almost killed.Arsene Lupin come and give an enlightenment in this problem.Once I said, I like it how Maurice Leblanc write this story by make the main character appear by the middle of the story.
It was a slow start for a mystery novel, I am glad that I made it to the end. Buradan Türk okuyuculara da seslenmek istiyorum. Bu roman Penguen Yayınlarının "Saat Sekizi Çalarken" adlı kitabına eklenmiştir. Bu iki roman da tek kitapta sayısız imla hatası, baskı hatası, bir karakterin adının bir sayfada 3 kere yanlış yazılması gibi hatalarla doludur. Hatta her sayfanın en üstüne yazılan roman adı da "Altı Üçgen" şeklinde yazılmış, okuyucu her sayfada adeta taciz edilmiştir. Bu kitap başka bir yayınevinden de basılmadığı için bu romanı okumak için Fransızca ya da en kötü İngilizce öğrenmenizi öneririm.
What do you get when you mix seven crippled soldiers, a beautiful nurse, a broken rosary bead and a rusty key? A rollicking good story!Although Lupin makes his appearance rather late in the book, this is another delightful book in the series. The plot wasn't perfect, nor were some of the resolutions completely believable, but it was a great read for a rainy afternoon.
This is a good book. One of those in which Lupin appears as hero. It's not my favorite, though. It's main mystery circles around Poe's The Purloined Letter. Therefore, already used up. Still, there are chapters which gave me chills.
A classic mystery novel in which two individuals, a man and a woman, discover they have something in common in their past which is the key to the mystery
This one was a bit slow to start out with, but it really picked up the pace when Lupin showed up.
Dans ce roman écrit en 1918, Don Luis Perenna, alias Arsène Lupin, n'intervient que pour sauver et dénouer les pièges tendus devant les malheureux personnages de l'intrigue...
