https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47674.Papa_Please_Get_the_Moon_for_Me
Beautiful tale of a father who will do anything for his daughter.
What kind of message was Eric Carle sending here? The "Papa" in this story is a hopeless push-over -- the way that little girl bosses him around! Going for whimsy and fantasy is one thing but this little brat has done nothing to earn the heroic feat that her father performs. And then she acts all surprised when the waning moon disappears? She looked old enough to have put together the pieces of lunar dynamics on her own.I will say this though: the way the pages fold out is extra creative. For that: ★★★★★
Absolutely loved. I mean it was great and gave me the feel of wanting to read it every night before I went to bed. Eric Carle is a genius in his own right. The artwork and the storyline proved to be truly captivating.
I like this book because Papa gets the moon for a little child who plays with it and it (spoiler alert) disappears. She says "where did the moon go?" and it's in the sky. There's lots of flaps: some go in, some go out, some go north, some go south, some even go east.
Papa, Please Get the Moon for Me is about a young girl named Monica who loves the moon. She tries to reach the moon but she can quite make it, and so she asks her father to get the moon for her. The reading level of this book is kindergarten through 2nd grade.  Comments/observations:  This book, like many of Carle’s other ingenious books, has an interactive element and the pages literally fold out and pop up as the reader goes through the story. This book is heartwarming as it shows a fathers lo
Papa, Please Get the Moon for Me is about a young girl named Monica who loves the moon.
She tries to reach the moon but she can quite make it, and so she asks her father to get the moon for her.
This book is also unique because it seamlessly introduces the lunar cycle to young readers.
The main topic within this book is the lunar cycle.
After reading this book out loud to the class we would discuss the lunar cycle and I would start by asking the class if anyone knew any of the phases.
Sure, it sets impossible standards for myself as a father whose limits are planted firmly within reality. And sure, it plays fast and loose with the laws of physics. But my two-year-old loves it, from the angular paintings to the fold-out pages, from the daddy and daughter to the moon and stars. And isn't that all that really matters?
Love the illustrations and the story!
Pretty cool book. I read it to some preschoolers and their parents. They seemed to like it.
sigh
First, my Kindergarten students all enjoyed how each page folded a different way. Secondly, I loved how papa was willing to climb all the way to the moon for his daughter.
Fun fold outs augment the simple story. Also some nice simple astronomy.
Papa, Please Get the Moon for Me is a picture book that has pages that unfold the story as readers turn each page.
The moon is high but he gets it, the only problem is that it is too big for him to bring it home.Comments/observations: My emotional readers response was that the interactive illustrations engaged the readers and overall made the book more interesting.
And as a class we will make the cover of this book using Eric Carle's illustration style.
Papa, Please Get the Moon for Me. New York, NY.
It was an interesting experience.The little girl in the narrative asks her father to get the moon for her, since she is too short and can’t reach it, but she wants to play with it.
Her father fetches a very long ladder, climbs a very high mountain, and leans the ladder against the moon.
Eventually the girl plays with it until the moon disappears, finally becoming “new,” and reappearing in the sky.Ignoring the father’s obvious idiocy regarding being up miles above the ground and then trying to grab the thing that’s keeping him from falling to his death, this book is a great way to introduce kids to the cycle of the moon.
"Papa, please get the moon for me" is about a little girl who wants to play with the moon.
The little girl played with the moon until it dissappeared.
The cover of the story is a picture of the moon (which has a little face) and a ladder reaching up to it.
It relates to the story because the girls father had to use a really long ladder to reach the moon, so it ties in well.
This would be a good story to use in the classroom if you are working on the phases of the moon.
This book is about a young girl who asks her father to get the moon so she can play with it.
Once the father got it for his daughter and she had it in her possession, it gets smaller and smaller until it disappears.
It also though explains the stages of the moon.
It explained how at certain times in a month there are full moons, crescent moons, and so on.
I liked this book because it has a lesson about moons in it, and I even learned ways to understand the different stages of the moon.
I got this for my hubby for Father's Day. Since my daughter was born, I get him a daddy book every year for Father's Day and sign it with my daughter's name (and now the 2nd one we're expecting!).
I was especially excited about this one because it's a daddy and daughter book, and it's Eric Carle.
I love his books and illustrations.This is a sweet book showing the lengths that a dad will go to for his daughter.
It also shows the stages of the moon.
It was very well done and my daughter really enjoyed reading it with her daddy.
Okay, I first need to say that the standard placed on parents from this book is impossible.Now, the way I see this book is that it has two lessons to share. First lesson is to the parents to not get pushed over and bullied by their children no matter how much they want to give them the moon, the world, everything. The second lesson is to the children. No matter how much you want something, be happy with what your parents do for you to have what you do have.
What a clever little book. Eric Carle author of The Very Hungry Caterillar put together another wonderful book to not only delight my son but I as well. I love his timeless artwork. The blue/green skies are magical. He too put a lot of imagination not only in the story but how the pages unfolded before your eyes. This is a very fun read and just the purfect size for my little guy.
Cute story portraying the love a father has for his child, and the great lengths (no matter how it seems impossible) he'd go to get whatever it is she needs. The illustrations are quite lovely as well. Nice work, Eric Carle.
I think, although "unrealistic" it shows how much curiosity children have for the stars in the sky, and how they don't really understand how small they are. This is a book that can be used as a gateway to explain simple astronomy concepts.
As a lover of books written by Eric Carle, this work shows a love between a father and his daughter. I appreciated the how giving the moon was to the father to share a bit of himself to the child to enjoy the moon for what it is. Another touching book written and illustrated by a great author.
The resolution of the story is clever and the foldout pages are really well designed. Carle's art on top of that is a nice bonus.
Another beautiful masterpiece. Adding another one to the pile of happy storytime memories with my girl.
One of my grandson's favorites. Very cute.
Cool book.
Sweet story, with soothing illustrations. Great bedtime book.
One of John's favorites that he liked to read to the girls.
great book, imaginative and happy feel
Super Sweet Story
Papa, please get the moon for me, written by Eric Carle, is a book about a young girl named Monica who sees the big moon out of her window at night and believes that it is close.
He gets a long ladder out and places it against a mountain and climbs it to reach the moon for Monica.
As the moon gets smaller and smaller, Monica believes that she is able to reach it and play with it, which makes her happy.
The first one being that children could read this and be able to understand that the moon changes sizes and positions while in the sky throughout the night.
