https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11234.A_Fairly_Honourable_Defeat
Their son Peter is living out with Morgan's abandoned husband Tallis, while Rupert's brother Simon is expected to join them in the company of his 'significant other' Axel, another mate from Rupert and Julius school days.
Murdoch most reliable characters for presenting her position on the major themes of the novel are Rupert and Julius.
Julius thinks Rupert is conceited and misguided and sets up to demonstrate that his own cynical approach to love is closer to reality.
The Venerable Bede observed that human life was like a sparrow that flies through a lighted hall, in one door and out the other.
OK, it's not really the great novel it sets out to be, but it's very entertaining.
Julius King is one of my all-time favorite bad guys.
Go Julius!
Destroy that relationship!
Drive that man to madness and despair!
Cut up that dress!
Do the washing-up!
Sort of a high-brow Hannibal Lecter-lite, as it were.
Though I was rather shocked to discover the explanation for his lack of affect.Here's the bit I liked best.
Then, a bit later, she visits the National Gallery, and is delighted when she now experiences the Turners as amateurish and poor.Ruining someone's ability to appreciate Turner, just for fun.
The dialogue, the philosophy and the plot can be a bit clunky, but everything is forgiven because it is so dramatic and the characters so charming.I've decided that, with Iris Murdoch, I know I’m going to love it when a) it is set in London and / or b) I have to write my own list of characters inside the front cover to keep a track of everyone."'Your letters weren't terribly informative, actually!
Let us say a sensible acceptance of the second-rate.''I won’t accept the second-rate.''If you stay in the same house as yourself you may have to.'""How could her dreamy converse with Rupert have occasioned, have caused, this terrible violence?
This paragraph at the beginning of the novel, after the first few lines of dialogue, captures why I love Iris Murdoch so much:  "Hilda and Rupert Foster, celebrating their 20th wedding anniversary with a bottle of rather dry champagne, were sitting in the evening sun in the garden of their house in Priory Grove, London.
Hilda, a plumper angel now, reclined limply, exhibiting shiny burnished knees below a short shrift dress of orangey yellow.
Her undulating dark hair showed some needle-thin lines of grey.
Her burly boyish-faced husband, whom she had at last persuaded to stop wearing shorts, sat open shirted, cooking in the sun.
It may or may not be one of the best books I've ever read, but in some ways it is probably the most powerful.For many years, it was the only Murdoch book I'd read, but over the past five years I've picked up others and that altered my reading experience this time.
I get it!)This awareness didn't diminish my interest in this novel, or Murdoch's writing, but it made me think about how present her voice and her personality are in the book.
"I haven't decided whether it would have been fascinating or frightening to sit down to dinner with Iris Murdoch at her peak, but I am confident it woul have been memorable.
So my review disappeared. That's been happening to a lot of friends lately but this is the first time I'm certain it's happened to one of mine.Despite being populated only by a host of white London luvvies, this is my favourite Murdoch by far. It's clever, beautifully written and Simon is to die for.All I'll repeat from my review is DO NOT read the introduction by Philip Henscher before reading this novel. It's a complete spoiler zone. Read it afterwards though, it's almost as good as the book.
I think, too, that I am better able to articulate what I like about her: I've been carrying around memories not of my own impressions, but rather my impressions of secondary criticism, my memories of my impressions of others' impressions of Iris Murdoch.
Specifically, I remember (if hazily) a Martha Nussbaum lecture about her that described her books as little clockwork machines: the characters wound up and placed into a moral dilemma to provide a sort of real world philosophical experiment, and investigation into philosophical particulars rather than general principles.
I say morbid as the plot is a spiral into which there seems nothing good can happen and leaves you eagerly waiting to see if secrets are revealed and everyone ends up where they deserve.The novel has the usual, slightly, claustrophobic, small cast and is set in London moving primarily between the rich and comfortable homes of Rupert and Hilda, a blissfully happy couple at the beginning of the novel, the home of a gay couple, Simon, Rupert’s younger brother, and Axel, and the decrepit and filthy dwelling of Tallis, the erstwhile husband of Hilda’s sister Morgan who has just returned from America after a disastrous affair with Rupert’s acquaintance Julius.
In some of the dialogue sections it is not always clear who is saying what, but that is actually very effective, especially when there is a large gathering, with multiple conversations and the reader is effectively eaves-hopping between them.The book is slightly dated in places (especially early on, when Murdoch seems embarrassed about the terminology regarding Simon and Axel: “liaison”, “association”, “his friend” and there are a couple of awkward racial comments), but mostly it reads very well and would also be good for a reading group, though probably too unfashionable to be picked – unless it rose to prominence on the back of a film.
What an amazing classic! Murdock was a brilliant woman and her writing and philosophizing is proof of that. This book is an amazing look at dialogue and character development almost totally through dialogue. I've been reading so many modern books that it was a treat to read a classic again. The characters in this book are not worthy of our admiration or sympathy and yet I really did not want the "Iago" character to destroy everyone. I can see how she is credited with giving new life to the novel. Pure character development!
Iris Murdoch is my favorite writer.
I have been saving this, the last one I hadn't read.
And it is, in a word, magnificent.
About Murdoch, John Updike said, “Our actions, our decisions, our vows do matter; what can fiction tell us more important than that?” I love her complicated plots, her mysterious characters, her oftentimes outrageous interaction, and, most of all, her dialog.
She uses dialog to delineate her characters better than any other writer I can think of.
Thanks, Dame Murdoch, for decades of great reading.
I guess I'll start over now and re-read my favorites.
I love Iris Murdoch.
This is not my favorite, but I do like it a good deal.
I would have given this three and half stars if I could; since I wasn't able to, I let my adoration for Tallis and Simon determine my decision.
In many Iris Murdoch books you kind of dislike most of the characters.
This was one of the few where I really thought some of them were decent people.
The title was pretty dead-on, and I felt strangely better at the end of this one than I often do with some her books.
She is dead.)As usual Lady Iris has created a world with tons of philosophical debate, fascinatingly developed characters and a little too much environmental description (I skip over it when it's overly florid so as to maintain my focus on what issues she is handling).
Her characters are at their best when at apparent ease in twilit cocktail hours...it's always the calm before the largest debates!I like to read one of her novels every six months or so and each time it is like coming home to a much more interesting family.
He proves that given the right circumstances most will selfishly act outside of their lover’s interest so how deep or strong can your love or relationship really be?
He’s got a compelling argument and it makes me feel icky…Can you trust anyone?
I believe in love damn it!...I think.
I loved Murdoch’s hoity toity English intellectual characters and their ridiculous philosophical conversations.
But what I loved most about this book was her writing style.
My next book will be by her but is non-fiction...I need to be centered again...Oh, the filth has got to stop.
Cynical intellectual, Julius masterminds a real life drama between friends, siblings, lovers and spouses in an effort to illustrate his beliefs in the ease in which people fall in and out of love, the inability of people to communicate openly and honestly due to their own ego, and in man's misunderstanding of goodness and evil.
His insensitive manipulation of people's emotions has profound implications.Murdoch has masterfully woven philosophical elements into this dark comedy, highlighting human frailties with empathy and pathos.I personally found this a painful, troubling read.
My heart ached for the the characters and I had difficulty seeing the 'humorous side' of the novel.
God damn, Julius is a DICK! The straight-up bleakness of 'A Fairly Honorable Defeat' was immensely disappointing. For so many high-minded characters and turns of phrases, this story is pretty straight forward—evil begets evil, and excessive pride is foolish.Yet, I was *absolutely* willing to follow along. Murdoch's writing is very engaging. I found myself daydreaming about Tallis, Simon and Axel and other characters in this dark web, and I resumed the story at just about any moment I could spare. Good enough for a poke, I'd say.
Still getting accustomed to Murdoch's writing, I found this book compelling and hard to put down. I read until 2 in the morning because I needed to know what would finally happen to the characters. I felt like I knew the gay couple already, and related to the married couple until they got into philosophical trouble. Her prose is seamless, characters well developed yet unusual. Her philosophical perspective is intriguing to me. This is mature, thoughtful reading.
As always, Iris is great. This book is about a middle class family and how they deal with each other. A bit fanciful, but that's what fiction is. I especially liked the gay couple (men). She made them seem real and not the least bit different from heterosexual couples. The ending was really good, too.
You could read it again and again and again, yet never get tired of it, you're always hungry for the next line, next page. The characterization is the ideal, perfect characterization. The plot is awfully innovative, intelligent and captivating. One of the best novels ever.
Excellent analysis of virtues, flaws, kindness & cruelty, and the fact that humans are flawed by nature.
Grown men show an equal facility for making completely absurd metaphysical assumptions which they feel instinctively to be comforting – for instance the assumption that good is bright and beautiful and evil is shabby, dreary or at least dark.
That isn’t very interesting, and as you know it can proceed from all sorts of motives.”“On your view it seems far from clear why human beings ever conceived of the idea of goodness or thought it important at all!”“My dear Rupert, you know as well as I do there are hundreds of reasons for that.
For example, at a very strained and awkward dinner party at which the hostess is being crushed by the belief that her beloved husband and sister are having an affair, the character Simon thinks to himself how good British people are at concealing their true feelings.The part of this novel I am really struggling with is the identity of Julius King and, to a lesser degree, of Tallis.
Julius is a wolf in sheep's clothing throughout the book.
The fact that his parents converted to Christianity and changed their name from Khan to King seems to further the wolf in sheep's clothing motif in a whole new disturbing way.
They always behave so irrationally, but then again, she proves that human motivations are actually pretty limited and predictable.In this novel, the amoral Julius sees himself as "an instrument of justice," tricking his friends and enemies alike into ruining their own relationships.
He is unaffected by what he has caused, because he doesn't think he is to blame: it is their vanity that led them to where they are.We get a glimpse into Julius's own motivations when we find out that he "has a strong sense of history," and "what has happened is justified somehow." Without revealing what he means (that comes at the end of the novel), we can see that Julius himself is not immune to vanity himself.
For example, she cheats on her husband, comes back and kind of throws her dislike of him in his face but doesn't want a divorce.
None of them is in any way in touch with reality except Thallis - though he tries his best to occupy his mind and time with something else to escape life.
He is 'a man of action' while the rest of the characters do nothing but talk about doing the right thing (the restaurant scene and the ending comes to mind).I liked the book.
When a story opens with a couple, who seem to be the monument of perfection and when she asks her husband if it’s a disgrace to be so happy and whether they should feel guilty about it… you know they’re doomed.
This is one of the darkest stories I’ve read by Iris Murdoch, and character-wise, I didn’t think much of any of them, with the exception of Tallis, though I wish he’d just stop for a minute to give his place a good scrubbing.
For a book that includes references to the Holocaust, Murdoch still makes a convincing argument that there is no greater evil than human vanity.
I imagine that Julius, having experienced the worst of human cruelty and justifiably cynical, is moved to upend the comfortable and selfsatisfied lives of his aquaintences and test their pompous easy virtue.
Rupert is writing a book about living an ethical life without even considering or thinking about pretty recent efforts to exterminate the Jews and the nature of human cruelty.
I hope Murdoch is using Julius as a foil to the petty satisfaction and self-absorption of her wealthy London characters but charges of anti-Semitism are not totally unfounded.
In this book, we find a gay couple working through their problems in a very believable way.Murdoch can lean towards the schematic in her dialogue from time to time, but even so, the ethical drive of the novel steers clear of esoteric theories and philosophical abstractions.Love is the irrational that we accept into our lives without much question.
'A Fairly Honourable Defeat' makes those questions present in the lives of the characters and works out their consequences to various ends.
These are the questions that carry the reader through this novel of intersecting and colliding lives.
this was my first iris murdoch book and i think i may be in love.
this story is a complex social drama full of incisive psychological and philosophical insights and richly detailed descriptions.
unlike many modern novelists, murdoch does not write to put herself on display, opting instead to tell a good story with lively and engaging characters as introspective as they are flawed.
overall i found that this was a brilliant and darkly humorous novel with much to say on the value of stark honesty and the problems of attempting to spare the feelings of others with innocent lies and omissions.
murdoch is clearly a genius of social observation and a sharp wit to boot.
I liked the premise of the book - a super-scientist conducting social experiments on unsuspecting, gullible couples and siblings to reveal how our hidden desires, insecurities, needs, perceptions of self drive our relationships, and not real, true love.
But I did get bogged down in parts - couldnt take all the "darlings" and italics being thrown about.
Do Brit men really talk like that?
And some of the detours she took seemed very irrelevant—while I normally enjoy such interruptions in the story, these weren't very interesting (like that bit about property rights, when Tallis asked if stealing was wrong - huh?).Would not recommend it as a quick read.

