https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123598.Black_Notice
Book Review  3.5 of 5 stars (rounded up due to the topic in the book) for Black Notice, the 10th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller and suspense series, written in 1999 by Patricia Cornwell. For me, this was a transitional book in the series, not so much from good to bad, but in the terms of who Kay Scarpetta is and what happens with the people in her life. If you are still reading the series, or think you will, don't read the next few lines... then skip ahead to the next paragraph where it
For me, this was a transitional book in the series, not so much from good to bad, but in the terms of who Kay Scarpetta is and what happens with the people in her life.
Knowing what happens later in the books, and thinking about what we learn in this one and the previous one, I really questioned what Cornwell was doing in the series...
think about the amount of effort and work Cornwell had to put into this book in order to write this story.
Her niece was ten when she was first introduced in the series and Scarpetta was in her early fifties.
This guy is about as un-PC as a character can get and breathes a little corrosive energy into the stale air of the later series.This particular book is an odd one (a wolf like guy kills people) and the storyline will get stretched over several books like your Christmas sweater.
You can stretch it out, but it looks like crap when you actually wear it.Sadly, I bought a box of books at a library sale and threw in several Scarpetta books.
Added up, I think she must do some political free lancing since she doesn't do regular work otherwise yet harps on and on about success-less people undermining the great.The funniest line of the book was when she shouts (again) that she just doesn't cry, what with crying all the time.Cornwell had so obviously seen the French films about perverted mishapen murderers shielded by their rich families that I couldn't believe she added nothing at all of herself, just subtracted, less than nothing.
The characters are getting harder to like--including Kay Scarpetta herself--and the plots are just so-so.
We have a bad guy, he kills a lot of people, Marino and Scarpetta go after him, Kay has a brief fling, the killer tries to kill Kay, the end.
I didn't like the abrupt ending of this book, and I didn't buy Kay's feelings for Tally.
I think Cornwall leaves a lot of questions unanswered, and a lot of the plot points dangling.
And why does Cornwall make a smart woman like Scarpetta so dumb that she keeps letting the bad guy into her house?
It never ceases to amaze me how Cornwell can spend four hundred pages setting up complex cases and building suspense and then blow it all in the last three pages like a case of explosive flatulence.
It doesn't help that the narrative arcs of her books all follow the identical repetitive sequence of evil, evil criminals and corrupt bureaucrats gunning for the noble, studiously moral Kay Scarpetta, who spends ninety percent of the time being a complete jackass and pettish, needy judgmental harridan, only to have everyone trip over themselves to defend her at great cost to themselves.
Now she has really turned into some stranger to me.Villan - 1/5 : Chandonne - loup-garou - Poor fellow.Description - 4/5 : Detailed description of each and every event.Violence - 5/5 : what else did you expect !Romance - 1/5 : I start to think does a women really need to be this of a kind.Philosophy - 0/5 : Nothing useful.Art - 1/5 : Nothing useful.History - 0/5 : NoneReferences - 2/5 : Nothing useful.Humour - 1/5 : None.Dialogues - 3/5 : Saves the day.Characters - 3/5 : No new one, just turning good to bad and bad to worse, and if that is called a twist, I do not accept.Positive - Interesting to see Kay moving forward always.
The true focus appears to be the grief and the guilt over Benton’s death that is slowly destroying Kay, Marino and Lucy at their very cores.
Every reader knows that Benton deliberately avoided Kay before all three went off the grid.Now, go back to the first page and read Benton’s letter again, particularly the last few paragraphs.
Then go back and read the scene between Marino and Kay in the hotel room in France when Marino brings up the very idea that Benton could be alive, that a cover-up could be in place, that she needs to study the autopsy report for “errors.”Maybe the letter was written several years ago.
From Richmond to Florida to Paris..Local police, FBI, ATF, Interpol this is a crime mystery not to be missed.
I haven't read a full fledged crime mystery in a long while.
Being that my first love is actually Historical fiction and I read that because I enjoy learning with my fiction, I was glad that I felt enlightened by the author's expertise in the field of medical examination.
I also liked how the author broke up the seriousness of crime, the rawness of the examinations, the mystery of the investigation with Captain Marino's wry humor.
It's been ages since I've read a Cornwell/Dr. Scarpetta book, just long enough for me to miss them and really enjoy this one.The mystery in this case begins with a decomposing body found in a cargo container that docks in Richmond.
The murderer's trail will lead Scarpetta and Marino to France and back again and will be very difficult to solve.
Her name is Bray, and she's determined to get rid of both Marino and Scarpetta.
Finally, is there a new love interest for Scarpetta?
Even though I read these books out of order, it still was a good read from start to finish.There's a killer on the loose that no one seems to understand his motives.
He's vicious and very destructive to his victims body.
At each of the crime scenes this hair has been found on the victims.
The things that he does to his victims leaves them unidentifiable.
Kay is still suffering from the loss of Benton but needs to pay attention to the drama in her office.
Marino is balled up in knots in regards to Benton.
The book drags somewhat.
Cornwell sembra proprio che non sappia cosa farci con i suoi cattivi, che di solito muoiono (forse, spesso resuscitano) nelle ultime pagine, non parlano mai, non si spiegano, non hanno spessore.
Nophoto-f-25x33 Patricia Cornwell's books get more and more painful to read. Kay Scarpetta's friends and family angst intrude too much in this story. Police Captain has got to be the worst of his breed acting in a manner so unprofessional as to be ludicrous. And her neurotic niece acts in a way that belies her profession.I used to just love Cornwell's books, but I have begun to think that I am watching the worst soap opera in the world. This is a shame, because the early books were so good I couldn't put them down.
*GO TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS REVIEW TO READ JUST THE REVIEW FOR THIS NOVEL *I'm repeating my reviews primarily for readers who haven't read Patricia Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta series of novels yet.
After reading book one, Post mortem, starring Kay Scarpetta & Pete Marino I was absolutely hooked and I read them back to back as soon as the next in the series was released.
Still, Kay Scarpetta's character continues being very depressing.
It's my understanding that Patricia Cornwell's life in reality is not going well, though I don't know any details, but it is most certainly showing up in her novels, as well.
WEEK 2WORD: BOWLBONUS: BLONDE (HAIR)MY LETTER: B - title Black NoticeBook: Black Notice by Patricia CornwellFinished: March 16, 2013Rating & Book Review: 3 stars - I've been reading/re-reading through the Scarpetta series and not particularly enjoying them.
The characters are SO unpleasant that I can't get past it, but I've been forcing myself to keep reading.
This one was actually less horrid.
The characters were still wretched, but this time they were being wretched on purpose so I could accept it better.
I'll keep reading because I feel the need to continue until Cornwell gives up too.
A great Scarpetta novel with an intriguing twist to leave the reader excited and curious at the same time.
When a body turns up in a shipping crate, Scarpetta is called to look into what might have happened.
How will Scarpetta piece it all together, and yet keep her sanity?A new twist brings readers back into the fold, especially those who may begin to see Cornwell cookie-cuttering her books.
This book is a great new look at the crime thriller novel and is sure to keep readers new to Scarpetta and old vets like me from getting too bored.
I'm beginning to think I've read to many Scarpetta books... easily predictable! But it was ok to read.
Za citaoce koji prvi put citaju knjigu ove autorice bice prilicno neobicno,da se radnja toliko dugo vrti oko lesa na stolu poznatog patologa Key Skarpete,saznati istinu nije lako,ali na kraju ne postoji nista drugo nego istina...neibicno citanje,nisam dugo citala knjige ove autorice pa sam zaboravila njen neobican stil...
I was annoyed by everyone in this book, everyone was miserable and I mean everyone. I knew this was not going to be a happy go lucky book, but damn!! I found myself ready for the book to be over. It was just okay.
This is, most definitely, a contender for the worst book I've ever read.
Horrible writing ("'Brrrrrrr,' he shivered"), an awful plot (don't let the guise of a thriller fool you.
This was the most angsty book I've ever read - and it failed at being a mystery, as well), and casual sexism and homophobia and other bigotry (Marino.
I hate him.
Hate hate hate hate -) combined to form this book.
Ew.The front had a sticker that said "Great read guaranteed!" Bah. That's a lie if I've ever heard one.Five hundred pages and two days of reading, wasted.
I recommend this to no one, not even my worst enemy.
kay goes to paris, what do you expect?p244: "this has nothing to do with her," i assumed uneasily."as you probably know, hidta has violent crimes–fugitive task forces," he said instead of answering my question.
This is not a series I follow although I have read a few. I like the way the main character is developed and her relationships and the attention to detail in the police procedure is impressive. But I also find the detail sometimes gets in the way of the story and the stories often have more blood and violence then I prefer to read about. This was very similar. Perhaps the most interesting part was the workings of Interpol.
Black Notice, tenth in the series, still has some of the same problems, but my favorite character, detective Marino, plays a more substantial role, and the crime is intriguing.
The weird animal hairs are then discovered on a murdered store clerk, and Marino and Kay are soon off to Paris on the trail of an international killer.
Marino is such a great character (he has the largest display of Christmas lights anywhere — he had to install three new fuse boxes), and the plot itself is so intriguing, I can overlook most of Kay's dour outlook and self-pity.
This crime mystery is the tenth book in the series featuring Dr. Kay Scarpetta, Chief Medical Examiner for the State of Virginia.
Scarpetta also finds out that due to changes made by Diane Bray, the new Deputy Chief in the police department, Pete Marino has been removed from the Detective division and put back in uniform, and that Bray is attempting to shut out Scarpetta’s office.
Scarpetta also discovers that there is a thief in the Medical Examiner’s Office, and that someone has hacked into her AOL account to send and receive Emails without her knowledge.
I hadn't read one of Cornwell's Kay Scarpetta novel in a few years, and was looking forward to this one because I had enjoyed the previous entries in the series.
And Kay herself behaves in a fashion that is totally out of keeping with the way her character has been developed in this series.The story takes place about a year after Kay's lover Benton was murdered.
Kay's investigation leads her to Paris and that's where the story seems to go completely off the rails.
This is the 10th book in the Kay Scarpetta Series written by Patricia Cornwell.
This is a really amazing series of books about Kay Scarpetta, the chief medical examiner of Richmond, Virginia.
The characters still have a lot of charm and make me want to read the book anyway.
Alone, this book would not be very good, but together with the rest of the series, I totally recommend it.
Plus, you need it to understand what happens in the rest of the series.
I've already read all the other books but that was over the past year or so and I can't be arsed doing a review for every one.
Another book that goes on without explaining a really important point - all the sudden Marino is back and uniform and Lucy is in another agency - wtf??
On to the actual mystery - this is the saving grace of the book - I did not feel like I completely wasted time because I was constantly guessing about who was who - the problem was that the conclusion of the story ended up in two or three pages, rushed and not explained well as if Cornwell was just "done" with writing the end.
I really think the series is getting worst - from my mystery reads I do not expect much for these short reads and unfortunately I keep getting disappointed.
Even a fortress can't protect the stupid.1) Learn how the murderer approaches the victims.2) Conveniently ignore all common sense.3) ???4) Might as well fire half of detective division and simply keep watch on Scarpetta.
Every major criminal ends up near her sooner or later.Not marking this as spoiler because every Scarpetta book ends this way.
It never ceases to amaze me how Cornwell spends time and effort on establishing a bizarre, intriguing case, then buries everything under Scarpetta's boring monologue and increasing soap-opera-like drama, and cuts to an abrupt ending in the last ten pages that almost never is a result of the characters' investigative effort.
Well, it was exactly what you expect from Cornwell. I don't know of a single page where anybody was nice to anybody. Anger, fear, resentment, hostility, even the love scene was not a nice pleasant scene. The criminal was a monster with a one in a billion chance to exist. Everybody was out to get Kay. Marino was not cordial to a single person. The people who are supposed to like each other don't do anything to be kind to each other.
Inaccurate start date. Actually took a few days. The death of Benton is so raw in this book it's heartbreaking to read. Lucy, Marino and Kay are all destroyed in their own ways and take it out on each other. It's difficult to read, very bleak. Probably the reason this is my last Scarpetta novel on my shelf.
Not a fan. The main character in this book is self righteous and her friend the cop is an ass. All of that could have easily been forgiven if the mystery part was very suspenseful but even that was without true merit. http://bibliofilesbookrating.blogspot...
