https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2024132.The_Master_of_Jalna
http://www.pussreboots.pair.com/blog/...
Two deaths, a birth, the old house crumbling around the Whiteoaks, Renny desperate for money to keep everything going, squabbles between various family members. I really enjoyed this entry in the series. My feelings about the characters keep changing from book to book.
But in this book, de la Roche does several (to my mind) unforgivable things:(1) She killed off Eden Whiteoak, my favorite character!
Halfway through the book Eden dies horribly of tuberculosis, coughing up blood in his sister's spare bedroom.
Eden was a charming, mischievous character, someone you loved to hate.
Granted, the two of them are temporarily estranged at the time, but the very fact that he strays is disheartening.
That alone would be enough to tarnish his image forever, in my eyes...Much as I generally enjoy the Jalna books, this one just didn't live up to my expectations.
The only bright spot is Renny's and Alayne's infant daughter, Adeline.
A soap opera of immoral, uncaring people.
The Master of JalnaMazo de la RochePan Books, Ltd., 1954 (first published in 1933)ISBN 0330202626Mass MarketAlso available as a trade paperback re-issue from XYZ PublishingThe Master of Jalna is the fourth by publication date, tenth by story chronology, of 16 novels spanning a hundred years from 1854 to 1954.
I first read the whole series in my 20′s and then picked up half of them on a book trip my daughter Annie and I took in 2005 to the world’s biggest collection of bookstores, Hay-on-Wye in Wales.In this entry in the series, Renny Whiteoak, owner of Jalna, must take over where Grandmother Adeline left off, carrying on the family traditions.
I am reading the Jalna series one book after another and with each book I read, I am more hooked on the Whiteoak family. This book really carries the story forward in many ways as several family members are lost and new ones are born. Renny takes center stage as he makes decisions that please him, but do not necessarily make his family happy. I am ready to read the next installment in the story--as soon as it gets here from the library.
This is the first time I have read from this author or this series. This series was very popular at one time. I found the book interesting, the characters believable, and the descriptions of landscapes very good. I am not sure of a point in this book other than another year in the life. Interesting to see how rich people get through hard times. It does seem that the characters had it much easier than others. This was apparently number 10 in a series.
The whole family returns to Jalna and the saga continues. It's too bad I am not reading these in order - get's a little confusing, although after 7 books, I think I have most of the family lines straight. Mazo de la Roche writes beautifully about the countryside and the changing of seasons and she has a way with expressing the thoughts of her characters in such human (and not necessarily nice) terms.
Book #10 of the Jalna series. This novel focuses on Renny as the head of the Whiteoak family during an eventful year that holds both romance and tragedy for the family. I really enjoyed this chapter of the Jalna series, especially the way all the major family members were part of the storyline and their stories were interwoven. I continue to enjoy my summer reread of this series, and look forward to the next book!
As the melodrama continues everyone seems (as always) at cross purposes. Times are bad at Jalna, and although everyone is happy as ever to live off of Renny, everyone is ticked off at his way of funding it. As always, oddly, Piers, who seems the simplest most straightforward brother is the one most sensitive to the desires of others, although he doesn't always act on his perceptions.
J'avais dévoré tout Jalna quand j'étais adolescent, et si je suis incapable aujourd'hui de me souvenir de chacun des tomes qui composent cette saga gigantesque, je me souviens tout de même que j'avais pris beaucoup de plaisir à découvrir cette famille et ce domaine familial que l'on suit pendant presque un siècle.
