https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3061.The_Natural_Way_to_Draw
I've taught university life drawing for over 16 years.
If you follow the exercises and do as many as required, your drawings WILL improve immensely.
While I agree it is in complete opposition to hard edged, refined type drawings--it is so only as a means.
It's easy to go from loose to tight drawing but very hard to go from tight to loose (yet accurate) because it requires more discipline, focus, quick, accurate observation and excellent hand eye control.
These exercises hone those skills.
I normally do not review art books, as there are others who do better than that beside me, but in this book, Nicolaides is the exact archetype of the nonsensical art educator: Teaching you to draw without any basis of actual observation.To give you a good idea, Nicolaides asks you to do three main types of exercises, which become harder with time, they are: Gesture, Blind Contour, And his "Mass exercises"; Problem is: First of all, Gesture drawing is intended for artists to use to relieve the stiffness in their drawings and to capture life in the figure, Problem for Nicolaides: THESE ARTISTS MUST FIRST KNOW HOW TO CONSTRUCT THE FIGURE AND/OR OBSERVE IT.
I avoided books like this like the plague because I could never "wrap my brain around that abstract thinking gobbledygook."But recently, I realized that I wasn't progressing.
I read through the whole thing first and foremost and he explained exactly what I wanted in my drawings--I knew it, but never knew how to get it.
I wanted *life* in my drawings.
Even an inanimate object is full of energy as the atoms race around.This book is not the be-all end-all to learning to draw, but it is an important part of drawing.
This is the best book on drawing that I own or have read. It teaches one to see. The blind contour drawing method was surprisingly helpful. If you check out one drawing book this year, this should be the one.The instruction is beautifully written and the student drawings included are helpful and inspiring. People complain about the time suggestions ranging from 2 minutes to 8 hours. But really, do you think you are going to be the best you can be without spending the time?
Simply the bible for life drawing.R
Kimon Nicolaides was a fantastic teacher of art who believed that the way to learn to draw was to learn to observe details and then practice drawing constantly.
He put it like this- "There is only one right way to draw and that is a perfectly natural way.
It has only to do with the act of correct observation and by that I mean a physical contact with all sorts of objects through all the senses." There-now the secret is out!
This book was written in 1941 and still shines brilliantly upon those who care to learn to draw.
Nicolaides' work is brilliant.
If you want to learn to draw, start right here with this book.

There are a dizzying number of methods for drawing practice in this book, which make the author seem awsome and his book very influencial. However, I wonder whether so many methods are really so "natural", and moreover, whether they are really necessary to learn drawing. Some students may want to perfect in, say, proportion, form modeling, or edge, etc., each of which usually takes a long time; by busily shifting from methods to methods, however, they may not have enough time and concentration for such perfection.
This text was used as a loose framework for my college level drawing course.
I say loose because we did use many of the exercises but we did not follow the exact progression, time requirements, or employ every exercise.I found it an extremely effective method to teach observation and drawing.
I have had the chance to be a part of other courses taught using other methods and find this one superior.
I am now reading this text again after 30 years since my first reading.
In light of my education and over 40 years of drawing experience, my opinion remains the same.
Brilliant, but not for beginners."Drawing depends on seeing.
Seeing depends on knowing.
Knowing comes form a constant effort to encompass reality with all of your senses, all that is you.
You are never to be concerned with appearances to an extent which prevents reality of content.
It is necessary to rid yourself of the tyranny of the object as it appears.
The quality of absoluteness, the note of authority, that the artist depends upon a more complete understanding than the eyes alone can give.
to what the eye can see the artist adds feeling and thought.
Possibly the best book ever written on learning to draw. It's simple: here is an exercise that will get you started; now draw for three hours, then come back for another exercise. When you're done, you have a firm foundation to go figure out how you want to draw. If that method of learning doesn't excite you, then you might want to learn knitting or something else instead.
This book details how to go about thinking, understanding the world as an artist. Along with useful exercises, there is a wondrous amount of good advice, I see this book as a necessary stepping stone in the road of expression.
a must for artist
Nice pictues of how other artists have approached the human form. The author also includes many drawing excercises along with examples of student drawings.
I learned how to see ... to really see. This book helped in all sorts of ways to do quality surgery with excellent results.
Amazing highly recommended everyone !
I have read The Natural Way to Draw; it was a solid read for beginners as well as professionals that wise to review and use instructions of how to perfect various drawing techniques and skills. It is mostly black and white illustrations with straightforward explanations and procedures; the textbook is frequently used by many colleges and universities teaching drawing courses such as Beginning Drawing to Advance Life Drawing.
Not a stand alone book, but the essential compliment to books with a more traditional approach to figure drawing, with their concentration on anatomy, proportions, representation. I can't think of a better way to find one's way to a more personal drawing style, to escape the many imitative traps of representational methods. With Rush, Peck and Robert Beverly Hale, Nicolaides makes my figure drawing library complete.
I have had this book for years. I really is the best book you could use to learn to draw life. Despite being out of life drawing classes, I continue to turn to this book. It's a great resource to reference, it's not a sit-down read.
I have bought this book twice. I can't remember where or why I first bought it but the second time was when I was teaching art. It is unlike any other book about drawing. When I let myself go and follow the instructions it's just plain fun and the result is great art.
This is the best book on drawing that has ever been written, and it's the only one I still own. Every time I see a copy at a used bookstore, I buy it and give it to a friend.
One of the greatest artists i know.. has recommended this book.. and i feel excited to start reading and practicing :)
I used this as a basic text for years of Drawing classes I taught at the Springfield Art Museum!
This is for me the best book of drawing.
Great exercises for skill building or just practice. A book I ought to reread more often.
Vai cat poate sa imi placa, dintre tot ce am citit si vazut abordarea asta mi se pare cea mai potrivita pentru mine
This book was a great read!
"The awareness of unity must be first and must be continuous."The book is (or perhaps was) one of the first books to be recommended to serious art students who were studying on their own.
You can scoff, but I think Nikolaïdes’s words are worth reading.Each exercise directed it’s student to follow a set course, drawing for 3 hours and sometimes for 20 minutes several times a day, which I flagrantly disregarded.
However, I liked the way he wrote about drawing and being an artist, and I found myself underlining words that lent themselves very well to the writing process as well.Section one wanted us to put ourselves in the models shoes and observe life as it is.
AN entire drawing grad course by master, published in 1941. Follow the lessons laid out by hours of blind drawing, more hours of contour, more of values and voila - you're a bonafide artist. Very useful.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
