https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/349272.The_Miracle_at_St_Bruno_s
The narrator for this book is Damask Farland, daughter of a prosperous attorney during the reign of Henry VIII.
Damask has grown up around the legend of the Miracle of St. Bruno's abbey, that of a lost child found in a crib on Christmas Eve. The child was named Bruno after the abbey and brought prosperity and wealth to the abbey - that is until King Henry starts hankering for Anne Boleyn.
Part of the problem is that today's readers are fairly up to snuff with Henry VIII and his six wives, and the last thing one needs is another recital of it all, particularly from a character who is stuck in the countryside raising children and gets it all second hand.
And so although Queen Mary had placed herself firmly on the throne and strong men and factions surrounded her with the purpose and intention of keeping her there, there were uneasy moments. And the thoughts and hopes of many men and women were turned to the daughter of Anne Boleyn.
Running alongside the story of domestic life in the mid-1500’s, is the story of Bruno, an abandoned child brought up in the cloistered environs of St Bruno’s Abbey, whose interwoven history will have repercussions, not just on those who live in the Abbey as Henry VIII sets out to destroy the Abbey’s wealth, but also on the Farland family.I first read this book shortly after its first publication in 1974, I was then in my mid teens and devouring romantic historical fiction almost as fast as the books were published.
4.5 stars. Another good book by one of my favorite authors.
I loved how Carr weaved the story of her fictional people with the historical facts of the courts in Tudor England.
I kept wondering how the book was 451 pages since I didn't remember a whole lot happening after a certain point.
I flipped the page to 300 and boom it was finished.
The remaining 151 pages were the second book in the series.
I inherited the actual books in this series from my grandmother so it always reminds me of her when I read Philippa Carr.
This book shows the reverberations of ruler's whims and how it impacts those of even the common folk of England.
This book follows the story of Damask, a young woman born during the Tudor reign of Henry VIII.
It details her life throughout Henry's rule as well as his son and daughter Mary.
It packs a bunch of English history into a small amount of space and does it well without getting too bogged down in historical details.
Perhaps the fault is mine in that I am reading this book at the wrong stage of my life.
It would be a good young adult novel and would teach a bunch of history to those not knowing too much about the Tudor time period.
When Henry is in power, everybody is in danger; when Mary is in power the protestants are in danger, etc., etc.I would have given this four stars except for a quirky annoyance caused by reading the e-version of the book using the Overdrive app on my Nook.
This app will tell you how far into a book you are and how many pages are left to the chapter you are reading.
There was a 188 page preview of the next book in the series included in the download which made it look like there was still 1/3 of the book to go when suddenly it ended!
The version that I downloaded of this novella is titled The Daughters of England Book 1, and it contains The Miracle at St. Bruno's and part of Book Two, The Lion Triumphant. Or at least I think it was part of Book Two, because it ended quite abruptly.The book tells a good story and keeps one's interest. It is set in the time of Henry VIII and chronicles two families who are deeply impacted by the religious struggles of the time. It would be a good beach or vacation read.
Although I devoured everything by Jean Plaidy and Victoria Holt that I could lay my hands on when I was in my teens, I didn't get so far with Philippa Carr. I don't know why - but now it seems this series is being reprinted, maybe it's time to give 'Carr' another try.
First person narration of a very easily guessed plot.
Carr creates a fictional family that almost mimics Thomas More's: the father and daughter are very close and she is almost like Margaret More Roper in classical knowledge--even visiting her father in the Tower of London like Margaret visited More.
The change in one character from being such a cold-hearted, manipulative woman into a thoughtful and even loving person didn't make sense.
Carr gets some of the chronology wrong: Mary I was not called "Bloody Mary" during her reign; that came later!
Interesting enough story but FFS is the writing tedious and overly repetitive. Like, for example, if this review were written in the style of this author I would use this sentence to let you know that I found the writing tedious and overly repetitive. I have the next two books in the series but don't know if I should bother. Carr's style is definitely tedious and overly repetitive.
For me, the tale was too gloomy to hold any real romantic quality, and in my opinion, this book tends more toward straight historical fiction.As an avid fan of Eleanor Hibbert, I had expected to love The Miracle at St. Bruno’s as much as her others but was disappointed by the slow moving and somewhat predictable plot, lukewarm characters, and uninspired relationships.
I would recommend this book to hardcore Hibbert fans, readers who plan to take on the entire series, and those who find pleasure in historical fiction that does not depend upon a romantic relationship to drive it.
While The Miracle at St. Bruno's is very much the story of Damask and Bruno, it is also the story of sixteenth-century England - an era of vicious corruption and deep tenderness, when periods of violent brutality follow a time of deep contentment, presided over by one of England's most fascinating monarchs, Henry VIII.I must say that I enjoyed reading this book - as I do so many of Philippa Carr's books.
A long time ago someone suggested I read Queen of This Realm: The Tudor Queens and shortly after I started collecting Jean Plaidy books from various local used bookstores.
I find Plaidy's works to be perfect for those times when I'm just looking for a quick read and they don't seem to play as fast and loose with history as other authors of Tudor fiction.
Since Philippa Carr is Jean Plaidy (and Victoria Holt), I figured this novel should be along the same lines as the others I have read.
This book was really more of a two and a half star novel.
I like the concept of setting this novel during the reigns of three Tudor monarchs, ending it at the start of a fourth, but somehow it doesn’t fulfil its potential.
I think had this been scaled down the novel would’ve had a smoother feel to it, as the main focus would be on the principle characters of the piece.
Of those main characters, most are likeably, but none stand out prominently in any way.
With this and other aspects being obvious, or at least seeming most likely, there wasn’t much suspense.This isn’t to say the book proved a complete let down though.
Picked up this book randomly during an ebook sale since it was a historical fiction set in one of my favorite time periods (Tudor/Henry 8th British Era) and it was an enjoyable, although not amazing, read.The story takes place during Henry VIII's reign (The book spans from when Henry is still married to Katherine of Aragon, his first wife, all the way to Elizabeth ascending the throne) and follows a fictional character by the name of Damask, the daughter of a well off lawyer.
This is a historical fiction book that starts when King Henry VIII was ruler of England and goes through the subsequent Queens ending with Queen Elizabeth I.It starts out with the "Miracle at St. Bruno's"and follows the life of one family, and the niece and nephew whose parents are killed and come to live with them, through the tumultuous times during the religious upheaval in England.
I will definitely be buying The Lion Triumphant and the subsequent books after it.If you enjoy books with great historical facts, you can not go wrong with this series of books.
I actually felt I was learning from the facts in the book.
People live in moral fear of Henry's displeasure, and then of never being sure of the "right" religion or whether they have innocently said or done something that might possibly be construed as treason or heresy.
The writing is compelling and moving, giving us all the right parts of the story.
Carr has instilled a real sense of fear and one believes the characters' sense of chaos in the political and religious climate of the time.
The characters at times appear stereotypical, and at others complex and deeply relational.
I was gifted these books by my mother.
They are 'go to' favorites that both my mother and I go to regularly.
The character development is great, the life situations are true, and there isn't always the happy ending that you are rooting for.
The books are so life like in their creation that the unhappy characters make you wish you could slap the 'bad guy' around a bit ;-)As a Christian, some of the story themes can be challenging to enjoy, but life isn't all roses and sunshine, especially during England's sordid history.
I have read fair share of books about Henry VIII and about his and his daughter era, and all of the books have been from the different point of view.
Philippa Carr book The Miracle at St. Bruno’s presents new side to this dangerous and tragic time and it is a wonderful mixture about history and fiction.The story about Damask Farland’s life is very enchanting.
It presents its reader with very strong emotions – love, fear, hate, suspense, frustration, tenderness, trust and faith.
The sneak peek into 16th century women’s life is compelling and refreshing.It is good change from contemporary and modern romance novels.
I used to read Phillipa Carr in high schoool...curled up in the stacks at the school library during study hall. I'd check one book out to read at home, and then appoint another title as my in-school reading during study hall...marking my place at the end of class each day, putting the book back on the shelf and finding it again the next day.this was a trip down memory lane- little bits of English history woven in and around a predictable plot. But it got me interested in history, enough to major in it in college!
This highly entertaining historical novel is set during the tumultuous (and terrifying) reigns of Henry VIII and his daughter Queen Mary after him. People lived in constant fear of their heads being chopped off for disagreeing with the King over who was the rightful head of the Church (he or the Pope) or if you were one of his ever-changing wives, whether he was wanting a new wife. Queen Mary would burn you for a heretic if you weren't a Catholic. The book ends with Mary's death and the new era of Queen Elizabeth.
I liked the book.
It is he first book in Carr's Daughters of England series.
It is a love story, a mystery and an epic historical saga during the reign of King Henry VIII.
The story was centered more on the people of England and how the cruel actions of the aristocracy affected their lives.
As different factions reigned, it determined how the people had to live their lives and how they had to worship.
The second in the series continues on about the families in the first story, moving on to the lives of the children and grandchildren.
Tudor-era historical fiction? Normally, that's my cup of tea. The Miracle at St. Bruno's, however, fell a bit flat for me.I'm typically a fan of Jean Plaidy, but I did not recognize this book as being by her (under a different pen name) - the writing did not live up to what I've come to expect from her. This particular book had a rather bland main character, and the action was all very predictable. It wasn't bad... but it wasn't all that good, either. I'm not sure that I'll try another by Philippa Carr...
I think the plot for this book was very interesting. The prose was difficult to read and somewhat overdone but it was published a long time ago. This is a series making it inherently attractive to me and I will read the second,Damask was a bit naive for her whole life. Her father was my favorite. Bruno is a tool. Part two was more captivating and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I look forward to finding out what happens to Cat, Carlos, Roberto, and the rest when Jack Pennylyon comes back into the fold.
This dragged for me. The story is set during the Tudor reigns, starting near the time that Henry VIII marries Anne Boleyn and ending with the accession of Elizabeth I to the throne. However the main characters are not at court, and most of the references are second or third hand.It was good for illustrating how the changes in the court impacted the country and what the discussions about the "true religion" really met.The ebook version that I have also includes a large chunk of the sequel, but I wasn't inspired to go on.
Part of a series of mother to daughter generations stories telling the history of England from Henry VIII to WW II. Fabulous to read them all in order. Each one is a gem; each is surprising and well written. Interesting read, interesting time of history with Henry VIII and all his wives making their way up and down the Thames in front of this country house. Reflects the religious conflict of the period.
The first book in Philippa Carr's celebrated Daughters of Englandseries is at once a love story, a mystery, and an epic historical saga set during the tumultuous reign of Henry VIII Damask Farland, named after a rose, is captivated by the mysterious orphan Bruno. Discovered upon the abbey altar on Christmas morning, then raised by monks, Bruno becomes the great man whom Damask grows to love—only to be shattered by his cruel betrayal.
I started this series- wrongly with what is actually #6, and went back to read this one eventually- when I was 14. My daughter, nearing her 15th birthday, is now reading this book. It is a great joy to me to drive down the road with her, but through our joint imaginations from shared readings, to actually be in a different time and place by traveling together back through the bloodlines of Daughters of England. Much, much fun.
My all time favorite book series!!! I have re-read this multiple times since I first discovered it as a teenager in the mid-80's. I absolutely love this story line of daughters set against the backdrop of British history!!!! I am currently re-reading it in 2011. The only problem is I don't own all of the books, and my local libraries don't have all of them either. I have to scour garage sales and used book stores to get all the copies! Eventually I will own them all!!!
