https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301022.The_Boyfriend_List
But in the end, through looking back at her dating history, analyzing her own family dynamics and talking to her therapist, Ruby learns how to be more assertive, get what she wants from her relationships with boys and simply becomes a more self-aware person.I can not praise Lockhart’s writing style enough – it is funny and clever.
I love that the underlying message of this book is for girls not to become complacent and emotionally dependent on boys, that dating a popular guy is not the most important thing in the world.
This book is better than any relationship self-help book out there.
Few things are worse than being 15 (examples: nuclear war and dental work without anesthesia). As Stephen King said,  "If you liked being a teenager, there’s something wrong with you."  But Ruby puts on her Big Girl panties and DEALS WITH IT.No catatonia or glorified semi-suicidality. Instead, she sees a therapist, like a responsible young adult.  Why is being a fifteen-year-old girl so traumatic, you ask? Some things that instantly come to mind: crippling insecurity and faltering self-esteem, a
And pissy about little things." There is no fairy-tale ending:- no cute previously misunderstood boy swoops in to rescue her from her troubles and make everything better;- she does not do anything special to make everyone adore her;- she does not discover the true meaning of life or have a life-changing epiphany;- she does not become a markedly better and very-grown-up-for-her-age person;- her friends don't magically understand her point of view and welcome her back with open arms.What Ruby does learn is that some honesty and self-assertiveness goes a long way.
I remember being 12 years old and thinking I was pretty much awesomeness personified for reading books like Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights when all the other kids were reading Roald Dahl.
It just goes to show how a book doesn't have to be a couple of centuries old and a household name to be awesome.I loved Ruby Oliver and, as a former clueless adolescent myself, I also understood her.
It made me laugh and held underlying messages - it was always going to be a winner!It's probably a 5 star read if I'm honest but I always like to wait until I've read more when it's only the first in a series.
When I was in that place, it felt like voicing those things – giving them a name – would only make them more horrible, more real.This isn’t a triumphant feel-good story, but a quiet one about one girl’s first small steps toward emotional honesty, with other people but mostly with herself.
Lockhart gives us so much more than just Ruby: there’s Kim, who holds her feelings inside until they erupt in vicious outbursts; there’s Ruby’s parents, who are engaged in a constant power struggle that they never discuss openly; and there’s even Nora at the end, who seems to want to forget that anything happened.I’ve already downloaded the next three books and I simply cannot wait to continue.
Relationships with other girls are so intense at that age, love affairs in a way – but they can be treacherous.
E. Lockhart has a serious talent of leading Ruby and the reader down the path of enlightenment but doing it in a very fun way (for the reader, for Ruby it is actually quite painful and embarrassing) so that it doesn’t feel like I was learning.
I saw myself talking to my teenager, trying to appear (hopelessly I am sure) cool, try to convey love and yet respect those important boundaries.
I've had a good run with young adult/ high school based books lately, so my hopes were high for this one.
Okay, it wasn't exactly like that, but near enough compared my teenage years.This certainly has a charm that will appeal to a lot of people; maybe those who aren't as jaded, sarcastic and generally inappropriate as I am.
Oh, those were the days.So you see, I wasn't like Ruby.
I should probably mention the book again.Yes, so.
The book.
A lot of people will be able to relate to Ruby, just not this pervert.
I'm not sure why it is so hard for me to articulate my E. Lockhart appreciation. It may be because every time I think of the Ruby Oliver books I pretty much do this:Weeks later these books are still bringing a smile to my face. I loved the underlying themes of self-discovery and self-respect. E. Lockhart has this fantastic way of making universal experiences so poignantly personal. I adored Ruby. Her adventures will always have a special place in my book-lovin' heart.
Ruby's story is told through her multiple shrink appointments, stories of fifteen guys she's ever liked/kissed/dated, and flashbacks of her life before it became a disaster.
Every girl, no matter what age, will be able to inexplicably relate to Ruby and the debacles she finds herself in.Although Ruby's story is primarily told through the list of boys she writes, it is mainly about friendship, honesty, and truth.
More than just a book, The Boyfriend List is like "The Ultimate Girl's Guide to Life." While reading about Ruby, you will find yourself feeling as if you are reading about yourself.
The Boyfriend List is a must-read for every girl out there.
Therapy - how people used to work through problems before Facebook existed. Nowadays people tend to talk about how much their life sucks on a social network until enough people pop in to console them. Ruby has a therapist, half the world has a Facebook, and I just have Goodreads. Reviewing as therapy : Everything you absolutely didn't want to know about my life made available for you to read about in print. This book made me feel a little bit disturbed about my own high school existence. The end
The scenes with Ruby's parents were funny because my parents have had some of those "moments."This book also makes me wonder what it would have been like if I was parenting girls instead of boys.
I honestly don't think Ruby Oliver was ever going to have this conversation with her parents!I came back to add more to my review after realizing that all I did was talk about myself and not the book.
Something else that also popped into my head tonight is that maybe I honestly can relate more to Ruby than I'd originally thought.
I know, right? How improbable, but it was really, really good. And Ruby is hilarious. (Seriously, I kept laughing out loud like a mad Mr. Burns woman.)
Since   The Boyfriend List   is a book about lists (15 Guys, 11 Shrink Appointments, 4 Ceramic Frogs, and Me, Ruby Oliver), I think I'm going to go out of the box and write my thoughts on the book in enumeration form, too. My personal sub-title: 5 Reasons I Liked It, 3 Reasons I Didn't, And A Recommendation.5 Reasons I Liked It: 1. It dealt with high school reality and teen angst/problems, much in the same manner that  Stargirl  (by Jerry Spinelli) did. Personally, I never experienced anything s
is a book about lists (15 Guys, 11 Shrink Appointments, 4 Ceramic Frogs, and Me, Ruby Oliver), I think I'm going to go out of the box and write my thoughts on the book in enumeration form, too.
I thought it was wonderful that within the period of an entire school year that she became part of the “in” crowd, had a cool boyfriend, was later on ostracized and called labels (“slut”, “leper”), and had panic attacks which required the shrink appointments, she had truly matured.
Having said that, I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to take a trip down memory lane, back to their own high school years, and remember.
Ruby is witty, intelligent, neurotic, boy crazy and completely awesome.I'm very impressed how these books touch upon some serious topics without taking themselves too seriously.
The Ruby Oliver books navigates tough girl friendship situations with humor unlike anything I've seen.
The story starts with Ruby in social exile because she kissed her (former) best friends boyfriend.
(Sidenote: Why is it that the boys are never to blame in these situations?)Ruby's new found social leprosy leads to panic attacks, shrink visits and an unfortunate Xerox of her "Boyfriend list" created for her psychiatrist.It's hard to list every reason I love these books.
So there I was, my mom yelling at me, Heidi talking crap about me, weirded out by the Noel dynamic, Angelo probably mad at me, Jackson thinking I was cheating on him/getting over him too quickly/generally skanky - and you'd think things couldn't get worse, but ha! It's my life. Things can always get worse. It's really too bad I wasn't much of a reader during most of my teens, because there have been times when I seriously could have used some Ruby Oliver in my ridiculously confusing teenage lif
It's really too bad I wasn't much of a reader during most of my teens, because there have been times when I seriously could have used some Ruby Oliver in my ridiculously confusing teenage life, even if it was just so I'd have someone to relate to.
I did actually read The Boyfriend List years ago in Dutch, but I was twelve or thirteen at the time, so boys were still playmates rather than datemates to me.
I loved The Boyfriend List even more than I did nine or ten years ago.
I first came across E.Lockhart with We Were Liars which, to be honest, I preferred on the second read.
I then read The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks which was fab and I decided that this is probably a writer for me.
So being in her head for the whole book was tough when she wasn't someone I would want to be friends with.But it was an easy enough read, and she does actually make some progress by the end.There are a few more books in the series, but I think I am done.
I'll read something else by Lockhart instead
I write lists because they give me clarity and purpose; I just like knowing that I can plan things and then execute them.
So inconsequential; I wish I could tell my younger self to suck-it-up; to not have been so overly sensitive and over-think things, to not have been so hard myself; to not have cared so much about what others thought of me; that it was okay that I made those mistakes - that no one is perfect; to forgive and not to have been so harsh; to not have gotten drunk that one night at that one party junior year, to never have fallen in love with that one boy, etc.
Dr Z suggests Ruby (or Roo to her friends and family) make a list of all her boyfriends, real or almost, and any other boys she feels she has had a connection or issue with and we're provided with this list at the beginning of the book.I've known about this series for a while, but not knowing if I'd like it, I put off ordering it and I could only find a copy of it at the library that's furthest from me, so I never got around to reading it.
Described to me as one of the best high school girl romantic shenanigans confessionals out there.
I think this might actually be true – high school was just ten years ago for me in real time, even if it was much longer in soultime, and this book feels very familiar and authentic to me.
It’s about self-empowerment and speaking up and crediting your own desires, and the whole fucking thing is two women sitting there talking about nothing but men.
The structure takes the empowering message, drags it out back and double-taps it to the forehead, then scribbles “boys boys boys!” all over its face in sparkly pen, is what I’m saying.
The Ruby Oliver books are like the American equivalent of the Georgia Nicholson books in the UK. The girls are just as obsessed with boys and relationships and drama, with the same type of humour and style. It's not really my thing, because the characters feel so immature and I was never that kind of 15 year old, so I don't think I'll finish the series.
3.5 out of 5 stars I remember being 15. Ruby Oliver is a particularly clueless 15 year old. I don’t know the story was good but Ruby was just so clueless.
I liked how through seeing a therapist Ruby was able to take a step back and truly see what was going on with her life, the self-reflections and realisations could be daunting at first, but I appreciated the person Ruby became by the end of this book.
What I also enjoyed about this book was that despite things hitting the fan with Ruby, Lockhart still managed to bring so much laughter and fun to the story, Ruby was also such a funny character, that you couldn't but laugh at some of the situations she found herself in.
For most books, my friends reach a sort of general consensus; with The Boyfriend List, the ratings varied from one star to five.
Ruby needs to get those two awful people out of her heart entirely and out of her life as much as is possible at Tate.The Boyfriend List is a humorous, sassy contemporary, sure to delight those who delight in misadventure, pop culture references, and romantic drama.
I'm too invested in Ruby's story to stop.Full review:"The Boyfriend List" is a young adult chick-lit novel with a lot of heart, showing the journey of one young woman who endures a rough week of navigating her relationships, family life, and ultimately trying to find ways to be honest with herself as well as the people around her.
I'll admit I was also frustrated at how transparent the other characters were at times), but ultimately, I think for what the novel was showing in its real approach to issues in dating, relationships, friendships, and self-acceptance, it worked.I think teens will certainly enjoy this eye-opening read, and I definitely enjoyed what it brought to the table.
I listened to the whole thing from the beginning to the end and I just didn't like it.
It's just not the kind of books that I tend to like.
You may ask, “if you don't like such stories, then why read this one in the first place?” Easy, I suspected I didn't and finishing this confirmed my suspicions.
I didn't like it because I'd rather not read about teens and their semi sex lives.
But one of the ladies here on GR (Heidi!) really enjoyed the book and wanted me to try it out.
Before I write a detailed review, I think I should make it clear that I fell HARD for this book right from the first page.
I am blindly and irregretably in love with it, and I think it's probably an irrational love, so everything I say about it should be taken with a grain of salt.I have never fallen in love with a book before like I fell in love with this one, right from the beginning and never letting up, only growing more and more intense as time and pages went on.
E. Lockhart definitely delivered a heartfelt book with laugh out loud moments that captured my attention and sympathy from cover to cover.
The Boyfriend List has what it takes to have you falling for the main character Ruby “Roo” Oliver as her life at Tate Prep turns upside down when her boyfriend dumps her, she begins to suffer from anxiety attacks and ultimately becomes a patient of Dr. Z to deal with her angst.
You’ll have to read the book to figure out why that was such a huge mistake.
AG!!!!I loved the book.
It wasn't laugh out loud funny, though, more like a "smiling throughout" and "the occasional chuckle" kind of funny, which is perfectly fine in my book.Ruby (or "Roo") probably reminds a lot of readers of their own teenage selves and I am no exception.
I still felt it was a subject that wasn't explored enough, however, and instead took a back seat while the romance and teenage angst/drama remained center stage.
It was one of the things I would have liked the author to have explored more and really made it seem like a big issue to Roo - most of the time, it felt like an afterthought of a plot device.
Why I Recommend Moving This UP On Your TBR:· The narrative examined a lot of harmful topics in an enlightened way, for example girl-hate is explored, as is the word "slut", etc.· This contains an abundance of thought-provoking topics.· It provides education for readers about certain harmful social behaviors they might be engaging in that hurt others and themselves that they might not even realize.· The story is well-crafted in that it's unpredictable and all of the chapters weave together well.
Also, sometimes these boyfriends come into Ruby's life so quickly that she spends two or three paragraphs (in the chapters they're featured in) talking about them, and the rest of the chapter in that confused present-past-future narrative.The Boyfriend List also makes use of footnotes, just like in, say, Good Omens by Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman.
People have GOT to be smarter than that.'Unfortunately, Ruby failed to hit the mark for my sense of humour after that, and even though she was enjoyable as a narrator, I guess I felt a little bit let down by the fact that it was sold to me as a really funny read, when it actually turned out to be quite fluffy.
3.5-3.75 stars?I genuinely liked this book, I did, but I feel like after reading the Jessica Darling series, nothing will ever compare in the chick-lit genre, which is unfair, because I had so much fun reading this.
I loved how this book made me experience such intense emotion: Revulsion, anger, warmth, betrayal, humour.
I loved who I loved and I hated who I hated but what's important is that I felt instead of feeling apathy or disinterest or nonchalance).If you're into chick-lit, which means if you're into contemporaries with a lot of humour in it, but also, surprisingly enough, depth and character development, I highly recommend this book.
Original post at One More PageI've read about the Ruby Oliver series from other bloggers, and while it got me a tiny bit curious, it wasn't enough for me to get them. When I finally read The Disreputable History of Frankie Landau-Banks by E. Lockhart, I thought it was such a smart read that I decided to pick up her other books. Ruby Oliver seemed the most popular and they were easily available so I picked one up. I started reading the first book in the series,  The Boyfriend List , a few weeks a
, a few weeks ago when I switched from chick lit to contemporary YA for my NaNoWriMo 2011 novel, and it definitely hit just the right spot.Ruby Oliver used to be popular, used to have a boyfriend and used to have best friends.
With the help of her shrink, she comes up with The Boyfriend List: 15 guys that she had had a thing with, whether real or imaginary, as it seemed like the thing that started all of these things for Ruby.
