https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266904.The_Penderwicks
I’ll admit I approach award-winning children’s books with some trepidation.
All too often, children’s literature awards denote books that appeal to adult librarians and book critics rather than to children.
We are told to read them because they are supposedly good for us, not because we will enjoy them.I was happy to find that National Book Award winner The Penderwicks was an exception.
It will still be a tough sell for boys, but I would not cringe to see The Penderwicks taught in the classroom.
The family consists of: ❧ Mr. Penderwick, a widower who loves plants and randomly speaks in Latin to his daughters; ❧ Rosalind, age 12, who's taken on the caregiver role for her younger sisters; ❧ Skye, 11, an adventurous girl whose blunt, occasionally ill-considered words sometimes get her in trouble; ❧ Jane, 10, aspiring author and soccer player.
A recommended read, especially for young girls!Now to try to lay my hands on copies of the sequels ...Original post: I remember this as a completely delightful middle grade book about a family of young sisters and their family vacation one summer, but I haven't read it for years.
Absolutely one of the best books I have ever read!!!
My heart is so full, having just finished the book--it really touched me deeply and I absolutely love it!
After just a few pages, I knew I the Penderwicks were destined to become my dear book-friends (like the March sisters and Anne and Emily of old!) and indeed the whole story was absolutely darling, charming, sweet, refreshing--everything I'd hoped for and more (because it is also remarkably sensitive, thoughtful and--I hate to say it, rare--in that it portrays a modern family who genuinely love one another and are genuinely nice, helpful people and good friends with one another).
A lovely set-up for a book, but the characters never felt real. Somehow all the ages felt off--Batty talked like someone much older than 4, I had to keep reminding myeslf that Rosalind was only 12, and Mrs. Tifton seemed like she was in her 50s, not early 30s. I just never fell in love with the characters. It was trying too hard to be sweet and charming. I did like Hound though.
The tale of the Penderwicks is the epitome of a middle grade masterpiece. Adults that just don't get it, a summer vacation in a strange new land, hopeless love, heartbreak, best-friends-at-first-sight friendships, a family so close you wish you were a part of it. Jeanne Birdsall takes everything you loved about your childhood and whittles it down to a couple hundred pages.The Penderwick children have enough personality to fill a series and I look forward to continuing the series and seeing where Jeanne Birdsall takes them.This might just be my favorite non-fantasy middle grade book of all time.
This book was the sweetest, most touching thing I've ever read.
<3 It completely captured the essence of childhood.
Honestly, the book was such a sensitive and touching portrayal of childhood.
They felt so real and relatable.The writing itself made me feel all cozy and comfortable.
Fireflies, climbing trees, cozying up with a book in the shade...all the things that make summer such a magical time.SO YES.
THIS BOOK HAS IT ALL, PEOPLE.)// Re-Read June 2017 //This is a story that will never ever get old.
It's a slice of childhood--the book equivalent of comfort food.I will never stop loving The Penderwicks.
A book I would definitely recommend, but not want to pursue further books in the series.Full review:The Penderwicks - Rosalind, Skye, Jane, and Batty (what an eclectic bunch of names!) along with Dad and Hound - are vacationing in a cottage at Arundel, the home of Mrs. Tifton and her son, Jeffrey.
Don't get me wrong; this was a fun, light-hearted read, and it felt like those books I would read as a child - a classic "any time period" feel where kids acted goofy and silly and sometimes dumb, where summer was full of adventure and possibility.That said, I'm an adult now, not 12, so there were things that I just couldn't blow past.
The Penderwicks are an absolutely wonderful, lovable and endearing family made up of four sisters (from ages 4 to 12 1/2), their loving father, and their happy and protective dog, Hound.The book tells the story of the four girls' summer vacation at a cottage on a huge estate.
And all the while, Birdsall has filled these characters with wonderful heart and individuality, so that by the third chapter you won't be getting the sisters confused with each other, and you will be anxious to hear more about each of them.The story seems truly timeless - it's a modern story, but you'd really never know it aside from the mention of a car and a few mentions of a computer.
Reread 5/10/18:Oh, wow! This book is just as good as ever. I just love it. <3 Rereading it, I think the girls are probably a little more mature than their ages would warrant - except Batty, perhaps - but I can overlook that. Perhaps it will inspire children to try to be more grownup (in an acceptable childish way, of course) and become nicer people! ;PNow that I can understand Latin, Mr. Penderwick is 100000x better. xDOriginal Read(s)?:This is simply one of the best children's books I ever read. It is so amazing! :)
The Penderwicks will go down in my memory as some of the great sister characters of all time-- right up there with the Marches and Hilary McKay's Cassons (sorry, Indigo- boys are great, too).The plot is simple, the Penderwick sisters, their dog, Hound, and their widower father, rent a cottage for a three week summer vacation.
The plot is fairly predictable-- in a book this sweet we know it will all turn out OK in the end.
The Penderwicks reminds me of Heidi, Marguerite Henry, Nancy Drew, Beverly Cleary, all of the books and authors who made me into a reader when I was little.
I've been struggling to catch up on my 50-book challenge for the year so I've been trying to read some short middle grade books to meet my goal.
I remember my teenage sisters liking this book a lot when they were younger, and my 10-year-old sister recently became enamored with them, so I decided to give the first book a try.
Stylistically, it reminded me a lot of all the classic children's books I read as a child, like E.
I'm excited to read the other books in the series.
I can testify, that it really is a fun book that caused us to giggle throughout the pages and we all earnestly looked forward to our lunch time reading sessions.
I would honestly recommend it to others to read, but, I want to toss some mild precautions to those who might be more sensitive to certain subjects or language.
2. A sentence was written to imply language that I personally don't use, such as, " Your Daddy can go to____," spat Mrs. Tifton.
There is a page or two explaining why, Jeffery, doesn't know who his father is and it goes into how his mother was divorced.
Ah...this was okay.
The writing was fine, and the characters had promise.
Unfortunately, a quarter way through the book everyone and everything became way too predictable and contrived.At times the characters felt believable and at others not so believable.
To me the best characters are the ones who seem to act on their own accord, write themselves, and manipulate the author.
And there were times when the Penderwick sisters felt like those kind of characters.
But then...Then there were other times (too many times) where the puppet strings became all too obvious.National Book Award winner???
Awwwww. :)While I wouldn't say that this really became a favorite, I'll definitely have to try to finish the rest of the series at some point, to see if (and how) the ships sail, etc. I think my favorite character might have been Rosalind. She was so sweet and also relatable in some ways. But then, I don't know, I liked all the Penderwicks, and Cagney, and Jeffrey . . . Solid book! :)

Charming, charming, charming.
This book, which in many ways could have taken place alongside Little Women, suited me perfectly!
A summer vacation in a New England cottage, a hound named Hound, a tight-knit group of sisters who look out for each other, a kind and warm housekeeper!
There are computers and telephones, but they only exist quietly in the background; New York and Boston and Pennsylvania are mentioned, but I kept thinking I was reading about England.
This really reads as a labor of love, the author's homage to the books she read and loved as a child.
3.5 🌟
Think back to your fondest childhood summer, sprinkle it with imagination and adventure, and mix it with a dash of humor and buckets of warm fuzzies.
Like Peter Pan did, it transported me back to childhood in a way that made me smile and want to live at Arundel with these kids just a little longer.Rosalind, the oldest sister, is sensible and secretly dramatic (reminding me a wee bit of myself).
He was downright adorable for an older teen.)This was a quick, fun read, with each chapter strung along as a new episode in the Penderwicks' vastly entertaining summer.
The Penderwicks is the perfect read for a sunny summer day.
Once I began reading this, I was instantly drawn into the family's adventures, and to be honest, I was reminded of Little Women in that each of the sisters had her own distinct personality and set of characteristics.
I often had to remind myself that this book has a current-day setting, but I'm not complaining about that by any means.
This is a story celebrating the simple pleasures in life, including friendship and family, and often, the children play outside and use their imaginations to entertain themselves, which was refreshing.
Anyone and EVERYONE should read this book.
I've heard parts of this series via audiobook, but with the recent release of the fifth and final Penderwicks novel, my family and I have settled in to read the whole series for bedtime.
Jeanne Birdsall has not been shy about describing this series as a modern-day successor to classic siblings-on-their-own stories written by Louisa May Alcott and Edith Nesbit, and she succeeds wildly with The Penderwicks, which somehow was her first-ever novel.
You can't help but love every single member of the Penderwick family, both natural and honorary.If you haven't yet discovered this series, remedy that immediately.
But there are many good reviews of this book, so I'm going to express my displeasure regarding the marketing, the description."A National Book Award winner, this modern classic is perfect for fans of Noel Streatfeild and Edward Eager."I once was a young reader (yes, I know, shocking!) who would search and search for good fantasy stories.
Certainly in the case of Eager they are ignoring GENRE.However, for young fans of Edward Eager or that type of magical adventure story, or adults who provide books to read to such young people, I think it's an unfortunate comparison.
Maybe it's just me, but when I watched that show I wished I could live there with a dad who always knew the exact right thing to say to make me feel better, a family who loved me unconditionally, and sisters who were my very best friends.
They all wear their hopes, fears, and feelings on their sleeves, and I found myself able to relate to each sister and remember when I too went through my first unrequited love, my first realization that boys could be more than icky, my attempts at creativity, and my imaginative play.While the Penderwick girls remind me strongly of Little Women they don't ever feel like cheap ripoffs.
Birdsall's first book, The Penderwicks: A Summer Tale of Four Sisters, Two Rabbits, and a Very Interesting Boy, had a timeless and innocent charm.
Reminiscent of many childrens' books from the first half of the twentieth century, it could have been set at any point in the past century.
Although the summer adventures of the four sister and their friend and dog had serious elements (eg Jeffrey's miserable home life) and were sometimes dangerous (eg the bull) they were truly child-like and carefree.The second installment opens with the girls' mother dying of cancer.
Not so carefree!
I read the fourth book first and of course had to immediately run out and get the others.
I hadn't realized what a chronological gap there is between this book and The Penderwicks in Spring, where Batty (here only four or five, I can't remember which) is almost eleven, and it was an interesting change to see the older sisters as young as Batty is there.The Penderwicks exist in a sort of alternate universe in which things aren't perfectly perfect--poor Jeffrey has a horrible mother and doesn't even know who his father is--but everything nevertheless works out for the best.
I fell in love with the family all over again and only wished I'd read the series in order.
Rating: two very bored stars of fiveOld-fashioned children's title, but so boring it put me to sleep every ~10pp.
I read "The Five Little Peppers and How They Grew" last year, for the first time, and didn't feel this deadening miasma of ennui...and it's hard to get more old-fashioned than that!
Elizabeth Enright's "The Four-Storey Mistake" is old-fashioned, and likewise passes the well-aged test.
To be fair, the latter was a re-read, so there were existing happy associations.I returned "The Penderwicks on Gardam Street" unread because I didn't want to risk the coma becoming permanent this time.
The Penderwick Family is on summer vacation to somewhere they've never been before.
It turns out to be a wonderful place, and although mishaps do happen the Penderwick sisters will never forget this almost magical trip.This is the most sweetest book I've ever read!
Should I tell you that each of the four sisters are written very well with distinct personalities?
Amazing family and friends, bittersweet parts, parts that will make your smile so big while reading that you will probably look like a dork but won't care anyway cause that's how cute, or funny, or just plain great it is.
I read this to my daughter (age 7) last summer.
It's a great summer book (since the characters are on their summer vacation), but not fluffy in the least.
There's no encroachment of pop culture references or lingo, and their actions and emotions are age-appropriate.
Now, unfortunately that's a bit of a rarity on the Borders "young reader" bookshelves, which are crammed with books about girls in cliques, girls who babysit, girls who gossip, girls and their clothes.
We loved the people (and the dog and bunnies) in the book, and can't wait to read the next one!
Review April 2018: I have decided to re-read this series in anticipation of the fifth (and final) volume that will be released next month.
Re-visiting this book was both a comfort and a delight.
I noticed on this read just how well written each of the sisters are, they are each their own person, with distinct personalities and temperaments.
But even at the beginning of the book they all stood out and I knew who was who ("Blue eyes, Blue Skye"), and who did what, etc.
I think in this book Rosalind was my favorite though little Batty with her butterfly wings?
I read this recently with a group of almost 4th grade girls.
It was interesting to see their reactions.
Most admitted to wanting more adventure or action, but still seemed to get something from the book.For me, I felt like I was reading a classic tale - along the lines of Little Women, or Anne of Green Gables - so when something like a computer was mentioned it seemed to be a bit jarring.
The innocence and classic feel of this book will attract certain readers and may be off-putting to others.
