https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187652.Childbirth_without_Fear
After a while I got tired of reading about myself referred to as "the woman".3) The whole book is about encouraging the mother to relax and avoid fear, and yet there is surprisingly little practical information on how to actually relax and push fear out of your mind during labor.
So most of the ideas in this book are now pretty well understood, and if you read a variety of other childbirth preparation books you can probably skip this one and leave it to the medical professionals who need to understand the history of their profession.The other thing about this book is that I could see how it could become a bit demoralizing in the event that labor does end up being especially challenging.
I read this book quickly, especially enjoying the author's tone and unapologetic honest insights into not only his observations of natural childbirth but pregnancy and women in general.
He stresses that education about childbirth is key to alleviating fear (and therefore tension and inevitably "pain") in order to succeed in a happy natural birthing experience.
Everything he discusses is ultimately common sense but so much so that our minds rarely think about these simple points which are too often overshadowed by the brainwashing our modern society has steeped so many women in: an irrational fear of our most natural physiological function.
This was literally a life changing book for me. I haven't a clue if it is still in print but he was responsible for early education for women in approaching childbirth in a healthy way.
Perhaps because I read it right after a wonderful birth book that celebrated pregnancy and birth.
I read the first chapter of this book without having read the authors name, and I just kept thinking "this HAS to be written by a man" sure enough I turn to the cover.
I just laughed when he mentions that the only time labor should be any discomfort is for a period of maybe "6-8 contractions as the body is preparing for the third phase of labor" and even then it's only a slight discomfort.
The kind of natural birth Dick-Read emphasizes is possible and even the natural order of things is under attack in America today so you will have to go out of your way to find a doctor who agrees totally with his fear-tension-pain model.
(Read ANYTHING by Ina May Gaskin for evidence on how rarely this truly happens.) Other people have criticized this book for lacking step-by-step instructions on how to relax and prepare yourself for natural childbirth.
This book is more about the philosophy of natural childbirth and introducing women to what is possible.
While this book's philosophy jives with mine, I'm afraid it left me with the feeling of "Ok, great, but when do we get to the part that tells me how to birth a child without fear?" I read the first 7 chapters and decided to put it aside for now.
In the first couple of chapters, Dick-Read waxes poetic about how ALL little girls desire to grow up, fall in love, get married, and become mothers, and it made me roll my eyes Liz-Lemon-hard.
There are many other great books that follow Dick-Read's philosophy (and are even influenced by this book), that are modern and more palatable.
As a HUGE supporter of natural childbirth I loved this book.
It has a lot of information that calms, buoys up, and supports women in their quest for a natural childbirth.
It encourages the idea that women have been having babies naturally for centuries without pain and fear and it's still possible today.
This book addresses the most common fears among woman during childbirth with the idea that by eliminating fear we eliminate pain.
I will definitely be reading this book again in preparation for my next birth.
Read it again for baby number two and still LOVED it.

Slow reading, as it is written by an OB during the first half of the 20th century--the writing style is a bit taxing. I skipped some of it, but all I read makes sense! Dick-Read expounds on his philosophy that childbirth was intended to be pain-free, and that any pain in childbirth is caused either by fear, or by an actual medical problem that the mother has.
Life Changing.
This guy was ahead of his time.
Bought it for $2 - changed my mindset toward birth and made for an amazing experience.
Didn't finish...too clinical for me right now. Maybe another time. Also written by a man, which means I'm skeptical. It's all well and good to talk about pain free childbirth and I have no doubt the pain is lessened if you can let go of the fear and tension, but pain free? I'm thinking this guy has never birthed a baby before....
It's important to read this book selectively. That means when something sounds painfully anachronistic, ignore it. When something sounds like it makes damn good sense, memorize it. (It's not the author's fault that he was writing in the 1940s and that therefore many of his cultural notions about women are woefully outdated.) The careful and thorough explanation of the "fear-tension-pain" cycle is what I found absolutely most useful throughout my labor process. For that, this book gets five stars.
Some points are good and forward thinking for the 1940s but pregnancy is case by case basis. I believe in natural birth but women shouldn't feel bad for having assistance either. It's rare to find a woman these days who gives birth without intervention.
Book mostly focused on education of childbirth, for expecting mothers, their husbands, midwives, nurses, and doctors.
And since when did nature care how much pain it inflicts on us?In the perfect world, maybe obstetrics education would be provided to expecting moms, their husbands, the moms would execute upon the optimal childbirth algorithm on the big day: contracting here, relaxing there, deep breath in X times...
He spends a lot of time in "defensive" mode, explaining and re-explaining concepts and ideas that were probably very new and challenging at the time, but are pretty easy to accept for the modern reader, and it's tedious to spend five or six chapters getting across a few simple ideas.
The last two chapters have some useful information on relaxation techniques and some (very dated-looking) exercises, but for the most part Dick-Read talks around the subject giving you a lot of background and not a lot of substance.
I texted this to my friend who asked me about the takeaways from this book: "A huge takeaway so far is knowing what to expect and being educated about labor helps reduce fear while in labor.
To achieve this education on labor and what's normal and practice of relaxing the mind leading up to labor are essential."This book was originally published in 1940s and the author died 1959, so the tone and some of what is written is outdated and are from that time period but what is written at the core is still very relevant to today.
As I am prepping myself for the birth of my fourth child, I thought I would refresh my childbirth knowledge and expand my knowledge regarding the recent history of childbirth.
I'm sure this book was revolutionary considering it was written before either of my grandmothers became mothers and updated after they became mothers.
I struggled to get past the condescending tone and outdated views he had at times towards women.
On the whole, it was ok if I kept reminding myself of the time period in which it was written.
I did love his explanation of the Fear-Tension-Pain cycle and how the uterus works during labor.
1/5. I mostly skimmed this one....didn't find it all that helpful (probably because it's so old/outdated). I get the discussion about fear, tension/pain, etc., but I didn't feel like this actually provided me with any information on how to cope with fear/tension (at least nothing new that I hadn't already learned). I think this one can be skipped...
At times, this book was rather dated. However, lots of very relevant info even today. A great book to point out that women's bodies are made to give birth, and pain avoidance isn't what every woman wants (or needs) and that doctors should listen to women more!
Thanks to this book, I delivered my son without pain or medication. Fear was no longer a factor for me in my own childbirth experience. I especially loved the first section of the book, dedicated to all positive experiences in natural birth.
Too much religion.
This book was SO calming. I haven't given birth yet, so I guess we will see when I have, but it was just a wealth of information.
This book is definitely written more like a textbook...but the message it great and he gets his point across!
The author gives the impression that pain of childbirth is mostly mental.
I'm often at war with either forcing myself to watch the process to "face my fear," so to speak, and not watching, but focusing on my breath instead to dispel any sense of pain.
While the author seemed to be a great advocate of women (for his time), I couldn't help but wonder what he would think/how he would be received by women of this generation.
Also, no matter what his intentions, I can't help but find it utterly ridiculous to hear a man speak of what should and should not be painful during childbirth.
I can see that Childbirth Without Fear was an important book historically, but for me it was a bit dry and I had a hard time with some of his blanket statements.
For instance, Dick-Read (a man) states that there is never a situation in which normal physiological events cause pain.
Sorry, Dick-Read, but I don't think you're qualified to talk about menstrual pain.
Anyway, I do feel like his book is important and I totally believe that fear causes unneeded tension which causes more pain, but I don't think a man can ever be the authority on what it feels like to have a uterus.
Сначала, насколько помню, идет рассказ о ситуации в начале 20 века - как принимали роды, а также биологическая составляющая.
Но и это помогло мне - знание, что даже на клеточном уровне роды не должны быть нестерпимой болью.
В итоге я шла с мыслью"Роды не должны быть болью, если тебе больно - значит что-то идет не так.
Но ты в больнице, и если что-то пойдет не так - тебе помогут и все будут живы".
Я точно знаю, что у меня настрой делает полдела.
И никто никогда мне не скажет, родила ли бы я так легко, если бы настрой был "омг, я рожаю, о!
I liked this book.
It was a little more in-depth than I wanted, but I pushed through the medical/details portions to enjoy the natural childbirth sections.
I feel like I gained a few new tricks up my sleeve for relaxing during childbirth.
I also appreciated the constant reminder that most of the pain in childbirth is caused by fear/tension and if I can relax and let my body do it's work then I can help ease some of the discomfort.
I wouldn't say this is an "essential" read for every expecting mom hoping to have a natural childbirth, but it's definitely a great resource if you're looking for a little education on natural childbirth.
Older book written in 1959 by a wise British obstetrician who found that there were social misnomers leading to women being filled with fear during childbirth.
In addition, he noticed the silly procedures many obstetricians were taking on as common place, especially in the US, and the harm they were causing.This book isn't much of a "prepare yourself for child birth" book as it is observations of good practices (and not good practices) from a doctor.
Still offers good insight, especially fast forwarding 60+ years and seeing the changes and results of so many silly procedures that were/are used to deliver babies.
