https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/396082.The_Lilies_of_the_Field
So, this man feels led to help these nuns and yet he doesn't understand why.
He feels a sense of liberation in helping them but at the same time, his human nature wants something in return for his hard work: money.
If anything, he becomes more generous and gives more of himself to the nuns and their mission, fulfilling a higher spiritual purpose.All said and done, this story is about human nature versus faith and prayer and the greater good of being led to do something more of what life calls for you to do.
The beautiful, deeply moving story of a group of German nuns struggling in earthly goods (but bountiful in Faith) in a small southwestern town and the strong, young African-American man named Homer Smith who happens upon them one day during his travels.
But when the Reverend Mother asks him to build them a chapel, both his independent spirit and his Baptist faith give him pause.
Yet, there is something so kind and welcoming and wonderful about the nuns, and Homer also feels compelled to help them.Those of you who have seen the wonderful film starring the gorgeous and soulful Sydney Poiter already know Homer’s decision.
Re-read, March 2018: Behold the lilies of the field, how they toil not, neither do they spin.
That not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed like one of these.*curls up in a ball on the floor and screams silently* MY EMOTIONSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSOriginal review:This was one of my favorite books as a teen .
I'd forgotten just how much I loved it until just now, when somebody mentioned the movie.
Guys, you all need to read this if you haven't already.
Brilliant story, brilliant author.
And boy, oh boy, do I love these characters and their story.
I JUST LOVE THEM ALL, OKAY??
You need to read the book yourself to find out.
The pages are turning brown and it won't withstand much handling but that's to be expected because it's coming up on fifty years old.The Lilies of the Field is a deceptively simple story about a group of determined German nuns who truly believe in the Gospel message, 'Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin; and yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
More people are familiar with the movie of the same name, starring Sidney Poiter, which doesn't exactly follow the book but has a certain charm all its own.
These German 'Lilies' definitely toil and spin but they also have the faith of little children.
Both the book and the movie are incredible and worth five stars each.
(I think the movie is still my favorite way to enjoy this story, but that doesn't lessen my love for the book!) Reading the book was like getting a deeper peek into an already well-loved story, with beautiful phrases scattered here and there that really struck a chord with me.
I'm planning on going through the book to write down some of my favorite quotes.Homer was just as amazing in this as he was in the movie, but I feel as if I appreciated his character even more here.
:)Definitely recommend this read!!
Now that I finished the book, it seems fitting that it was read by someone else before me.
Lilies of the Field is a simple story of faith and providence.
Homer Smith is a drifter who stumbles upon a group of German nuns working in a field.
I found myself reaffirmed that with the power of prayer, personal perseverance and hard work, there will always be enough "bricks"...some of the bricks will not be perfect, but they will be what you need.
This is one of those books I see myself re-reading, perhaps when there does not seem to be enough "bricks".
When he looked up after the "Amen" they were all looking at him happily.
Nobody said anything but they were glad that he was home.
;D Thanks, fren!It was very atmospheric, with a writing style that's economical in general but doesn't skimp on description when necessary: I especially appreciated the parts where Homer was sitting out by himself under the dark prairie sky and listening to the sounds of the night.
(Plus, Homer himself was pretty awesome.
I took a shine to him as soon as the narrator said, "There was laughter in him." <3)
3.5 starsA simple, gentle story easily read in an hour or two.
Sweet, uplifting tale about an African American ex-GI who is traveling across country in his station wagon with a bed in the back enjoying his youth and freedom.
He comes across a group of nuns, and a battle of wills begins--a battle between him in his desire to be free and a staunch German nun who feels that he is sent from God to build them a new chapel (and that therefore he, naturally, belongs to them for God's purposes).This short novel is surprisingly deep and says alot about faith and virtue.
I definetely cried at the sweetly satisfying ending.
I had a vague recollection of seeing the film adaptation of this book, so when I saw it sitting there on the shelf at the used book store, I just had to grab it. I am glad I did. It was sweet, heart-warming, sometimes ad and mostly amusing. Homer was a wonderful man. I really loved and respected that he stuck with it. He made a promise and he saw it through. I definitely felt teary at the end. It is an awfully short story and I am glad I took time from my longer book to read it.
Read for school and enjoyed it!
All of the other donations of time and labor for the nuns were fascinating too.
Are there parallels in my life?Other parts I want to remember include phonograph English lessons, latin hymns, spanish music, and negro spirituals, Baptists, Methodists and Catholics, finding answers in the scriptures Luke 10:7, Proverbs 1:14, Matthew 6:28-29, Swing Low, Sweet Chariot (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yU091Y...), Didn't My Lord Deliver Daniel (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5QuTAe...), Ezekiel saw the Wheel (ezekiel saw the wheel), Dry Bones (http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mVoPG9...), Water Boy, John Henry http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=64GHrP...) and of course, Adios, Mariquita Linda http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tbW8Cq..., the memories.
It was definitely worth my time to watch it this afternoon.
A well written & beautifully worded story. The New York Times review expresses my thoughts on the book: "A contemporary fable... what joins these unlike forces in a plausible miracle is the vein of basic goodness that Mr. Barrett sees in all men." Definitely an uplifting story with characters that make you smile. Now I'm ready to watch Sidney Poitier's portrayal of Homer "Schmidt" Smith.
Charming novella about the power of faith. Some poor German nuns want to build a chapel on land given to them. They have no money. This wandering African-American man comes by and builds it for them, in ways that have more to do with faith than with reason.Tender and touching. Providence is a great miracle.Mathew 6:28 " Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin"
I really enjoyed this. It was very short but didn't feel rushed at all; in fact, the pacing was very nice for the type of book it is. It did a marvelous job of letting you figure out the meanings for yourself and gave the reader a nice feeling. I would recommend it to others and might even read it to my kids when they're older.
Just a short, simple book about a man who stops to help some German nuns, in the American southwest (maybe in the 1950's or 60's?) and stays to build a chapel for them.
He just keeps feeling compelled to stay and do a little more, he enjoys getting to know the nuns and helping them learn English.
He becomes a legend, after he leaves, as the man who Mother Maria Marthe has prayed for to build their church.
I enjoyed it a lot!
I can see that he would do a very good job portraying this man.
What does it take to get faith restored and perhaps look at life the way you never did?
It is strange how in today’s time, when faith is most needed, people are renouncing theirs at the drop of a hat.
The book tells us about how the nuns came to be where they are and how Homer is where he is in his life.
I first read this book in 1999, when I was in the most major sense having my personal moment of faith crisis and somehow I tided over that time.
In this instance it supplied me with a beautiful, very short, story of faith, devotion, persistence, sacrifice, friendship, and the lasting effect we have on the people we collide with on our day to day journey through life.
It's the story of a young black man, Homer Smith, an ex-GI, and his encounter with a group of German speaking nuns in the country, building a chapel.
He liked interesting ideas.
She believed that he could build a church all by himself, maybe even without bricks.
That wasn't a reasonable idea.
As this Spanish man said, it wasn't reasonable.
This was a very sweet book. I loved the author's descriptions of the nature and the people. I also loved reading more about Homer. I really enjoyed learning about who he was as a person, which is something I couldn't understand when watching the movie. I also liked how the book dealt with racism. Racism was around during the time the book was set, and I liked how the author didn't shy away from the subject. It gave the book a realistic feeling. Overall, I would say this book was short and sweet.
the most unlikely pairing - a group of German nuns living in a remote southwestern part of the US who can't speak very good English -- and a recently discharged black GI. He teaches them English and they persuade him to help build their chapel. A mere slip of a book and a decades old movie with Sidney Poitier; this is a little gem waiting to be re-discovered for its simplicity and wisdom.
I rarely see the movie before I read the book, but I never pass up an opportunity to see Sidney Poitier. And in this case it didn't matter. Both the book and the film are excellent. Both are full of grace and beautifully done. Wonderfully titled. I always appreciate that.
This is a beautiful little narrative of faith - one of how faith coupled with partnership and hard work can essentially bring about miracles. And those miracles just may take on the shape and form of many different types - whether in building relationships, in building confidence or in actual buildings. They also can reach beyond barriers - language barriers or racial divides or even personal boundaries. This little book had a message of hope and faith and trust. It was a message that spoke to me.
I own an old copy of this book, dated 1962.Enterprising German nuns struggle with day-to-day existence, yet are rich in faith.
Beautiful and uplifting.“Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin; and yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not a arrayed like one of these.
Now if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is here today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will He not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?” - Matthew 6:28-30
A small group of German nuns is building a church in post WWII south west America. Homer Smith an African American traveling laborer happens to pass by and stops to look. The head of the nuns sees Homer as an answer to her prayers for help in the project. The story that follows is very simple and touching and will stay with you long after reading. This is a very short book, only 127 pages, but more memorable and powerful than many longer books. I’m going to search out the movie now.
BEAUTIFUL!
The wording is sparse but carries its meaning well.
The characters a little simple, because of the sparse wording, but they flesh out better as the story goes.
There are unsaid things in between the sparse words, which always appeals to me.
A fine story of faith, inspiration, the man on the road, making the desert bloom as the rose, and some comments on race.
People in this book may not know how to express why they are doing a thing, or even what they are about to do; but they have the depth and sincerity to just do it anyway.
Short, sentimental, and extraordinarily well-written, Barrett's "The Lilies of the Field" is the first book I have ever written that approached the great literary bugbear of ennui in such an interesting and natural way. Enough with all these listless, privileged young men lounging around Paris or boring women stuck in loveless marriages! Here, at last, we have the ennui conquered the way any true human would conquer it, by engaging himself in finding purpose and making extraordinary what might at first appear ordinary.
I loved the story of Homer Smith—how he just happened to come across a group of four German nuns who badly need help, his coming an answer to prayer. Mother Maria Marthe put him right to work building a chapel for her, but he thinks she’s a bit crazy to ever expect him to be able to do it on his own.Even though this story is a bit different from the books I usually read, it was fascinating and I’m planning to review it soon.
Lilies of the Field is a straightforward tale of faith and beauty that comes from hearts responding to God. It is a story about the kind of freedom that comes only when one surrenders to God. The writing is powerful, but sparse; evocative, yet simple. A quick read at only 128 pages, Lilies of the Field comes highly recommended.
Although it's really only a short story, it is the perfect length. It is a bare bones treatment of a principle of faith and the faithful who make results happen. Any padding of length would have detracted from the message.
