https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15836.Fugitive_Pieces
and were i rating it solely on the beauty of its language, it would be an easy five-star book.
they remind me of the women in jonathan carroll, or leonard cohen: perfectly self-sustaining and generous, selfish and regretful.but another, and bigger, problem is that at one point in the book, there is a shift in narrators, and yet the voice is exactly the same as what has come before; the same fragmented, desperately lovely poetic musings, doling out the story in brief paragraphs.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. A haunting elegy. Michaels pairs the story of an orphaned Jewish boy who clings to memories of the family he lost during a Nazi raid in 1940 with the narrative of a man whose parents survived the concentration camps but whose scars from the experience have a disastrous effect on the child they conceived after the war had ended. Crafted with luminous, poetic prose, this laudable addition to the pantheon of W
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
A haunting elegy.
Michaels pairs the story of an orphaned Jewish boy who clings to memories of the family he lost during a Nazi raid in 1940 with the narrative of a man whose parents survived the concentration camps but whose scars from the experience have a disastrous effect on the child they conceived after the war had ended.
Crafted with luminous, poetic prose, this laudable addition to the pantheon of World War II literature is a masterfully written meditation on grief, loss, family legacy, history, and memory.
Jakob will spend a lifetime trying to piece together the memories of his past and those he loved.
Like other ghosts, she whispers; not for me to join her, but so that, when I'm close enough, she can push me back into the world." If you read this book, no doubt you will adore Athos and love him as Jakob did, you will cry for Jakob and want to comfort him when he wakes from another nightmare, and you will ache for Jakob as he attempts to put the pieces of his life together in his search for self.
And while Jakob grows up, gets older, falls in love, falls out of love, falls in love again, learns, experiences, hurts and rejoices, Bella stays the same, forever imprisoned in the depths of his tortured consciousness.
We change, but the ghosts in our minds stay the same.
They always take a piece of us with them, a part of us that, like them, stays frozen in time.
It seems like the past is the only thing constant and we hold on to it, to the memories as a way of having a single speck of stability into our tumultuous lives.

The story itself is straight forward and easy to follow....( not 'all' characters are developed fully), but the overall plot - and the depth of the plot is clear....beautiful in its ways....and powerful.
Later they go to Toronto where Jakob develops his language ...become a poet, and comes to some inner peace over the loss of his older- beautiful sister, Bella.
Athos, is a Holocaust survivor himself....a widower.
Athos teaches Jakob to love from his heart...and not to let anger and fear dominate his life.
When Jakob's narrative ends, Ben takes over.
This novel often reminded me of what a brilliant accomplishment Virginia Woolf’s The Waves is.
The second part of the novel is narrated by Ben, who met Jakob once and is deeply influenced by Jakob's poetry and goes to the Greek island in an attempt to find the writer's notebooks after his death.
There are so many beautiful and deeply profound passages of prose in this novel.
But there isn’t always the feeling that this beautiful writing is fused into the narrative.
By contrast I was reminded of how brilliantly Ondaatje’s poetic passages flow organically into his narratives without bending them out of shape.
A novel that wants to convince us academics can be deeply feeling, sensitive to personal life and even sexy!A seven year old Jacob Beer is hiding behind a wall when his parents and sister are taken away by the Nazis.
It becomes a little confusing in the second half when a new narrator enters the scene, another man who survived the Holocaust and who admires Jacob's poetry.
Confusing because he too narrates in the first person in the same voice as Jacob and his relationship with women seemed to mirror exactly Jacob's.
With me now in my middle age and she, in her twilight years, looking back to the lives of her parents made us reflect more on what would be ours when we finally come to our last years, or months or days on earth.There was one photograph with both of their father and mother in it.
It is like reading a fragmented prose in different multiple layers and at least two voices, that of Jacob in the first part and of Ben in the later part.
This memory of losing their loved ones, with pain expressed in exquisite lyrical prose, makes this book a very memorable read.
“I see that I must give what I most need.”It’s not easy to sustain a poetic voice for almost three hundred pages though Virginia Woolf managed it brilliantly for two hundred in The Waves.
At times the writing is stunning and it’s brilliant how much poetry and pathos she manages to extract from everyday detail.
Jakob manages to escape when his parents and sister are arrested by the Nazis.
Later it falls on an admirer of Jakob who becomes a poet to keep his and Athos’ memory alive.
There are probably two hundred brilliant pages and another hundred of unnecessary upholstery.
There is no doubt that Anne Michaels is a talented writer but it almost seemed that she flexed her literary muscles too much at times so that this seemed to be more of a poem than a novel.I also had a problem when the narrative voice took Ben's persona in the last section, mainly because there is no warning of this and the voice still sounds exactly like Jacob.
I finally gave it a try so I could stop wondering why it won half a dozen awards and shows up on "must read" lists everywhere I look.
The blurb doesn't even begin to tell you about the book as you'll experience it while reading.
The final 100 pages are narrated by Ben, a young man who briefly met Jakob Beer before his death, and now tells his own story as if he were speaking to Jakob.
Although not as compelling as the first 2/3 of the book, I did appreciate Ben's story from the perspective of someone who grew up as the child of Holocaust survivors.
But making an effort mitigates the PTSD, even if it doesn't put the pieces all back where they were.Holocaust survivor and poet Jakob Beer narrates the first two-thirds of the novel, and a child of Holocaust survivors, Ben, narrates the last third.
(view spoiler)[Ben learns late in life he had had two older siblings who died in the Holocaust.
I was confused by the sudden change of personal history until narrative clues eventually cleared up my confusion.It is clear having lost everything beloved of one's past so violently while a seven-year-old child, torn away from everything one knows by other human beings who hate beyond rationality, will create adults without a full set of healthy emotions or without a willingness to fully engage with life or trust in the, obviously to them, ephemeral or mercurial anymore.
Smug, self-serving twaddle.Yes, Michaels has a way with metaphor.
This book is relentless in its "poetic manner"--if I want that sort of thing I'll read Ondaatje (and frankly I'm amazed his lawyers didn't sue for plagiarism...).
There's an attempt, for example, to relate the language of science and the language of metaphor, but no sense of what it would mean to make these comparisons.
What, for example, does the book want to say about geological versus historic, that is, human time?
Most vexing: what is its attitude to the Holocaust in relation to these half-hearted comparisons?
From the corner of a small house on a small island that juts like a bone from the skin of sea.”Early in her brooding, shadowy, aching novel, Anne Michaels sets out the central conflict of her principal character, Jakob Beer.
During the years in Greece, when Jakob is forced to hide within his savior’s home, Athos fills the long hours with millennia of history, geology, geography, and literature.
Four years later, as the German army flees Greece, Jakob is allowed to emerge from the protection and seclusion of Athos’s home into a world broken by war.
I just don't seem to be either an Orange Prize reader or a good target audience for novels penned by authors who are, as Michaels is described, 'primarily poets.' I love poetry--it was actually my first love, and novels came later.
Unsurprisingly, our protagonist becomes a celebrated poet (ugh, how I hate--with rare exceptions--novels about poets, novelists, playwrights, artists...) and the last part of the book is devoted to another character, admirer of such poetry.
The novel has been promoted as one exploring diverse and thought-provoking themes--grief and loss, for example.
Ben’s life and loves are just narcissistic and inconsequential beside Jakob’s anguish and isolation; in addition, Michaels has made Ben an academic whose specialty is the poetry of weather, which just compounds his absurdity.
But reading Ben is to forget Jakob; it’s like getting an ear-worm (view spoiler)[Barry Manilow’s Copacabana; I did warn you (hide spoiler)] after a brilliant concert - now you can’t hear Ode to Joy any more.The film (Michaels wrote the script some 10 years later) was incomparably better because Ben became part of Jakob’s life; he was a young boy when Jakob came to Toronto, they lived in the same apartment building and Jakob formed a close bond with him.
I want to put this book in a bowl, pour syrup over it, and eat it with a spoon.It made me cry. Actually, it made me ugly-cry. What more is there to say?
Her lyrical sentence structure will capture you right away and the story line is profound.
The archaeologist smuggles the boy under his coat across the border and eventually takes him back to Greece where he becomes his guardian.
Eventually the Greek scholar will take the boy to Canada where he is a scholar in residence.
One of the most profound books ever written about the injustice of humanity and also the empathy and kindness of humanity.
If you like fine lyrical writing as opposed to a pedestrian type style, this is the book for you.
I've never had a complaint like this about a book I've read: the language was too beautiful.
Each sentence is crafted like that.
Each sentence is like a part of a poem, which makes sense, because Anne Michaels is a poet.
But I'm sure Michaels did that for a very good reason, I just felt a little bereft when the first character went into the background.
I'm sure that was her point, because one of the themes of the book is people disappearing from your life.
I felt sad when the book was over, but I don't exactly know why.
I'm torn with this book.
On the one hand the prose is so dense and rich, poetic and downright stunning.
On the other hand the story left me a little hollow.
Reading this I had the perpetual feeling that I was trying to see through a foggy window, barely seeing.
And yet, there was so much feeling.
Characters appear as if in a dream and dissolve away.
Frustrating?
People leave.
People die.
And we feel the loss forever, as the characters in this book do.
This book reads like a dream.
There was just a little something missing.
2 Stars - Okay bookTo say that I was underwhelmed by this book would be a fair assessment.
I did not connect to anything in this book.
The story sounded promising but ultimately fell flat.The structure seemed similar to a stream of consciousness and it did not work for me.
Maybe I'm missing something but I think this style and form detracts from the story.
The writing itself isn't great.
It's not that the writing is complicated but more so that it's pretentious and repetitive.
Sometimes repetition plays an important part but here it doesn't.
Overall I found this book very blah.
I think it's okay to skip this one.
Fugitive Pieces tells the story of Jakob, a Polish Jewish child, and Holocaust survivor; Athos, a Greek archeologist; and Ben (the Hebrew for son, not short for Benjamin), a poet and child of Holocaust survivors.
As an adult, Jakob becomes a translator after mastering Greek and English, and maintaining his childhood languages, Polish and Yiddish.The lives of the male protagonists in the novel were for me the fugitive pieces of the title.
Pieces of their past would appear and disappear throughout.
Athos’s secrets are buried in notebooks hidden in his house on a Greek island.
That my life could not be stored in any language but only in silence; the moment I looked into the room and took in only what was visible, not vanished.
The moment I failed to see Bella had disappeared.
But I did not know how to seek by way of silence.
Bella and I inches apart, the wall between us.
I thought of writing poems this way, in code, every letter askew, so that loss would wreck the language, become the language.If one could isolate that space, that damaged chromosome in words, in an image, then perhaps one could restore order by naming.
This is a reflection on love and loss in the context of the holocaust and those who survived.
The story begins in Poland, then to Greece, Canada and back to Greece where Jakob meets the love of his life.Anne Michaels is a poet and the language and descriptions in the book are beautiful; almost too beautiful, becoming distracting.
Jakob is haunted by the loss of his family, especially his sister Bella, throughout his life.
His loss, and his coming to terms with life and love and survival are the centre of the book.
Beautiful and touching. I wasn't expecting the short, fragmented sentence structure of this book but it works. The fragments (pieces?) tell snapshots of the confused and painful upbringings of Jakob, a child who survived the killing of his family in the Holocaust, and Ben, a child born of two Holocaust survivors. Each perspective brings guilt, fear and pain into the lives of Jakob & Ben and threatens to overpower them in their adult lives. A beautiful book about love and its powers.
Especially the wrought, poetic language of Jakob and his impressionist stance, ensure that the reading initially is a very difficult experience (the Dutch translation I had was an additional obstacle; who the hell translates the original title "fugitive pieces" by something as banal as "hidden past"?).
The storyline is sometimes very hard to detect, and also at the end you have the impression that the author was not really presenting a valid, rounded story, but rather wanted to uncover a number of basic intuitions about life, in which the poetic language represents an additional enriching layer.
I have observed this recently in my reviews of some novels about WWI, and the soldiers who fought.
In large part, rather than bits, this novel is the psychological effects of WWII and Jews.
The first part is told by Jakob Beer, who escaped as a child, then was rescued, hidden, protected.
I make this observation in reference to the prose in this, her first novel.
Michaels' GR profile says she has written one novel, this one.
If I thought her other novels contain as powerful a message as this one, I'd be inclined to read them.
Undoubtedly, the book contains some beautiful poetry, but there's so much of it that the plot gets bogged down to the point of nonexistence.I can't for the life of me tell you what happened in this book, aside from the following plot details: Jakob gets rescued from the Nazis by a benevolent Greek archaeologist, then moves to Canada with him, where he proceeds to have two fairly uneventful love affairs.
I can forgive an author whose skill with words is average so long as they give me an engaging plot and characters.
I need to read this one again.
It's been a good 17 years or so.
I remember feeling very attached to it at the time.
My gf back then, who insisted I read the book, actually named my pup after the main character Jakob Bier.
I would say we named my pup after Jakob Bier, but I'm pretty sure she was the brains behind the operation.
I dreamed about him last night, as I often do (the pup, not Jakob Bier, but perhaps if I read the book again I will dream about him, too.)
