https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1099097.The_Tiger_Who_Came_to_Tea
I learnt important life lessons from this book:*Don't try to drink all the water from the tap*Drinking tea from the pot via the spout gets you a mouth full of tea leaves*A single tin of tiger food will fill you up as much as an entire household full of foodThe story is a simple one - what happens when a tiger comes to tea (tea here in the British English sense of a post-midday meal eaten with tea, the content and actual time of the meal correlating with social class and location).
The Tiger Who Came to Tea is a picture story book for very young children.
I remember children in the 1970s loving it, and it is just as popular today.It is all about a little girl called Sophie, her mummy, and a tiger, all of whom have tea together.
The title told you that is exactly what it would be.) The story starts with a ring at the door, interrupting Sophie and her mummy when they are having their afternoon tea in their kitchen.
The Tiger Who Came to Tea is one of the best selling children’s books of all time.
The British are so nonchalant. A tiger comes in and eats and drinks everything in the house. No worries, we'll just go out to eat tonight.
A classic much loved story about a tiger that came to tea and ate everything in the house.Really entertaining story for the younger children and I enjoyed reading this book as well.Recommended.
Should a tiger come to tea,it is scarce a tragedy.Give him buns two or three --or ten --and should he come againwe'll resupply with grub.But first -- let's to the pub.
I'm not sure if it's really suitable for my English student, I think she already knows enough words to do with food and eating, and maybe it's not too good an idea to try to explain why a mother and daughter would have the kind of tea in the afternoon that involves sandwiches and buns and cake and biscuits, and then have a supper of sausage and chips as well.
Actually, no, they didn't get the cake and sandwiches because the tiger ate them all, and drank all Daddy's beer and all the water in the tap too.
I loved this story and, as a child, would have been utterly delighted reading this/having this read to me.
From the words within, I do believe it was probably first published in England.I’ve always loved tigers, though as an adult not in zoos or other entertainment parks, and so even this very “un-tigerlike” tiger appealed to me.
The story is very funny and entertaining, and fun to read aloud.The illustrations are equally amusing, and I especially liked the picture of the little tiger striped cat the family passes by on the street.A dated but very funny book.
Read this when babysitting and it was just really lighthearted and fun!
This was a cute story about how a tiger comes to tea and eats and drinks everything in the house.
Not even the tiger they really cared what happened to, and I think it was because the ending fell a little flat, even I was wondering what the point of the book was.
After the tiger eats and drinks everything, it leaves and the family is left wondering what they'll feed dad when he comes home.
The tiger never comes for tea again.
Perhaps the point of the book was to have no point?
Yes, I know 'why hadn't I read this before?' I think I did when I was very young but revisiting again brought up the oddness of the whole book and the visit of the tiger.
I can understand why adult readers see the tiger as a representation of Nazis visiting the Kerr's home - its unquestionable authority and power and it feeds on the family's stock of food has a sense of ever-present danger.
On saying this, having read this with my son, he thought the whole thing very funny and enjoyed reading and watching how much the tiger could eat.
Food for thought.
I can't work it out, is the tiger a fabrication between the mother and daughter, an excuse for eating the entire contents of the house and not leaving an for Dad?
Except mother looks genuinely stressed by the events while Sophie seems to have an unhealthy bond with this tiger.
Father has a very long suffering look about him when he returns and he seems to be selling his idea of eating out a little much.Or worse, is the tiger real, at least in some sense, a local monster eating families out of house and home, all while playing trumpet in his spare time.I have definitely got to stop thinking about these books too much.
A dual garage sale was held by a pair of neighbors with older children, a need to declutter, and excellent taste in books - multiple titles that I vaguely recognized from friends' lists.Anyway, this is a cute story of a tiger who came unexpectedly to tea, and ate everything. After it was read to her, DD (age 3), demanded an immediate reread, and then a third just before naptime. I had fun, too.
Is it bad that I kept expecting the tiger to eat the little girl next?
ceai.Tigrul te lasă fără mâncareExistă numeroase povești nemuritoare, iar Tigrul care a venit la ceai este una dintre ele.
Judith Kerr a creat această minunată poveste cu mare drag și v-o recomand din inimă!
Mulți oameni s-ar teme dacă ar avea un tigru în casă însă în povestea Tigrul care a venit la ceai am asistat la o întâmplare în care o familie se împrietenește pe scurt timp cu un tigru care îi lasă fără mâncare în casă.Mă bucur de faptul că am reușit să descopăr încă o carte minunată pentru copii care nu ar trebui să vă lipsească din casă, mai ales dacă aveți mici cititori!
It is a classic tale written over forty years ago which tells the story of Sophie and her mum who sit down to have tea one afternoon, when there is a knock at the door, and they have an unexpected visit from a tiger.
Sophie and her mum also go to the supermarket to replenish their cupboards and they buy a large tin of tiger food in case their visitor returns.
Perhaps you can have a discussion with the children on what they would do if a tiger (or some other wild animal) came to their house.This book has great potential to be used for role plays.
A classic children's book from the author of Mog the Forgetful Cat. Beautifully illustrated, and a very amusing storyline about a friendly tiger who comes to tea one night and eats the family out of house and home. My son enjoyed looking at this book tonight; I'm sure it will be a lifelong favourite of his.
This is an entertaining story about a tiger who acts most decidedly improper at tea time. The narrative is short and silly and the illustrations scream of an older time. I do not remember reading this book when I was a child, but it seems to be a tale that has remained popular over the years. We enjoyed reading it together.
This one may eventually be moved off the "can't read to Tommy" shelf. The problem here was that the tiger eats all their food. That wasn't right! I cautiously tried it again last month, and we took it a little more stoically.
The Tiger Who Came to Tea by Judith Kerr was published in 1968 and was recently turned into a stage play in London.
My inner child is feeling miffed at missing the show.A mother and daughter sit down to tea (a most wonderful excuse for a mid afternoon snack) when the doorbell unexpectedly rings.
Their deadpan solutions: go out to a cafe for dinner and buy a giant tin of tiger food is just the perfect solution to a silly book.The Tiger Who Came to Tea by Judith Kerr is for me, a forgotten childhood favorite.
You can imagine then how The Tiger Who Came to Tea played into that fantasy a bit.
It is about a young girl who is having tea with her mother and then the door bell rings.
They invite the tiger to join them for tea, only for the tiger to eat all the food and drink all the drinks in the house,leaving nothing for her daddy when he returns home.
If a visitor knocked on your door, you may invite them in for tea, but you would not let them eat everything out of your house.
In the story, the mother went along with it, she did not stop the tiger.
A sweeet lovely book for children. My niece is enjoying it very much with daily repeated reads. Even I (much grown-up) loved the sweet innocent story. The illustrations are very very nice.
Am a big fan of Judith Kerr. I’ve been re=reading this with my grand=daughter, and find it perfectly pitched for a toddler. Plus I love the look of Sophie’s house!
Whilst at Sophie's house the tiger eats and drinks everything in sight, the family seem mildly surprised by this but once the tiger has politely taken his leave decide to go out for tea.Despite the surprising event 'The Tiger who came to Tea', feels like a very traditional story.
'The Tiger who came to Tea' has the ability to fire children's imaginations in a quiet way.
Perhaps if a tiger could come to an ordinary child like Sophie's house, he could turn up at their houses.
This is a brilliant short story which is based on a girl called sophie who is interrupted by a tiger whilst she is having tea with her mother.
When her mother opens the door she discovers that there is a very hungry tiger who wants to join them for tea.
When the tiger is sitting at the table Sophie's mother offers him a sandwich, however instead of taking one he eats all of the sandwiches on the plate.
When the tiger was finally full he leaves with sophie and her mother wondering what to do because there was no food and no water in the house.
A must read, as it is about an unexpected visit by an unexpected visitor- the tiger, who is invited in by a little girl named Sophie and her mother.
It is a story that is well liked by children as they are fascinated by animals that are magical and mysterious; as the tiger is in this case and he never revisits!
What did occur to me is that it is a little outdated in its potrayal of gender as mum appears to be clueless in how to handle the situation....however, dad comes home after a hard days work and is able to offer sound solutions to the situation in hand!!!
It's ridiculously old fashioned/dated, but still timeless.
I'm willing to overlook the dated gender roles in favour of the great stuff in this one, that is; the tiger is huge!
they don't sell that stuff at my local supermarket; the tiger eats everything, like we all want to sometimes; their good manners and hospitality, so charming.
It's a cool slightly transgressive domestic story that I just think is great.
Easy, fun and simple to read, therefore good for younger children starting to read a story more for themselves.The idea of coming to tea can be replicated in their game playing. Beautifully illustrated and a lovely message for inclusion and gratitude.Excellent for reception children who are learning lots through role play, learning about animals and beginning to read a story more for themselves rather than being read to.
This classic early years story book has fantastic illustrations along with a quirky story line. It is loves within the early years however it could be easily adapted for older children...providing some problem solving discussions!
Read 18/01/17
So cute! Reminds me of the series of "If You Give". Always have loved this author and was so excited to read this. Loved every part of it from the story to the illustrations!
