https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96082.The_Last_Time_They_Met
Fuck this book.First of all, it's broken into three sections- the characters at 52, 28 and 17. It goes backwards, which might work in some stories, but it's utterly annoying here. You end up not knowing the characters at all. Plus, it was like a wanna be Out of Africa. I'm so annoyed with this book. Anita Shrew I mean Shreve is all about the depressing love stories, but this was ridiculous. I liked the other one about this character much better and THAT one wasn't even that good. Jesus.
I hate how you pretty much destroyed my hope in finding love as perfect and enduring and dangerous as that of Linda and Thomas.
And yet despite that she had the luck of the draw; she, whose soulmate was a man equally, if not more, madly in love with her as she is with him.I hate you for writing The Last Time They Met the way it's written: backwards, like reading a book from the last page forward.
For God's sake, keep writing."I am running out of words as to how your book has ruined me, Anita Shreve.
In order to recognize the good stuff, I believe you have to have some experience with the bad.
If I say or write, "That was incredible." or, "Meh." or even "I hated it!" I'm using all the books I've read before as a sort of gauge.
- is bad, in my opinion, because it seems Anita Shreve couldn't pass up a chance to write a book full of gimmicks over one whose plot could stand on its own two feet.
Part three was my favorite as we learn about the beginning of their relationship in all its sweet youth, innocence, and discovery.
I feel like saying anymore might be a spoiler of sorts so will wait and discuss this at our meeting.
I and my BC friends do not casually swear so perhaps it will be enlightening if I tell you that upon finishing our book, my friend texted me one word to sum up how she felt.
It begins with an F.
I see a lot of people did not like this book.
I understand why, but there are certainly parts or rather a sentence that I HATED but I loved this book.
I read it a few years ago and it still haunts me.
I would recommend reading it with a friend or group, because you WILL want to discuss this with someone in the know when you finish.
This is a book that I will re-read.
I think what I like so much about it, besides the wonderful writing, is that it is very different from anything I have ever read.
This book was an ok read until the end...if everything from the car crash forward is invented by Thomas and not real after all, this is a sick delusion and not a love story. I felt cheated at the end. It is something like the time when Cheech and Chong released an otherwise empty record album, with the words "You have just been ripped off" at the end. If you enjoyed that album, you will enjoy this book as well.
Anything Anita Shreve [Anita Shreve] has ever written has moved me. I am thrown into the storyline because of her writing skills. No other writer has ever been able to make me see  what is being written. I can picture each character, house, town, etc as though there are photos on the side. There's just something about her writing. I get involved in the story and the characters. When there's a new Anita Shreve book, I get ready for a sleepless night because I can't put the book down.
Parallel to their love is the element of time, a seamless flow of moments spent together.
The answer to why didn't Thomas and Linda's love succeed in earlier moments, specifically in the second phase when they have found it again and affirmed it, is found in the final phase of their story (the beginning of their love).
A phase where reality dictates and even the imagination, the human mind cannot reject it.A story that tell of a life unfulfilled, a love fulfilled, though not finitely, but in the moments in which memories are derived.
I found myself skimming through pages because of the excessive and unnecessary descriptions of things/events/people that really had no impact on the story.
I'm still confused about the ending which seemed unnecessary but I didn't enjoy the book enough to re-read it to discover what it meant for the story that had been told.As for the characters of Thomas and Linda, while I found their predicaments understandable, it still doesn't mean that I agree with their actions.
In my opinion this was not a story of unrequited love or even a Romeo and Juliet-type love, just two people who chose to be with their spouses out of requirement, instead of returning to their true loves, and resenting their spouses for it.
You know, I've read other stuff by this author, and liked it. Liked it a lot. This is actually the fifth book if hers I've read.Absolute dreck.The characters are wooden and unbelievable, like something out of a Russian novel of the last century. They give undue weight to their actions (should I or shouldn't I have this glass of wine?) and are clunky.Not one of them is memorable.Really, really disappointed.
I'm a big Anita Shreve fan...and eagerly await each new book she writes.
She forces the comparison, since this book is a vastly inferior sequel.
Both books had a gimmick at their core, but the gimmick is all this sequel is about.
But this time, even her prose fails her.
The writing is, at times, excruciatingly bad and laughably self-conscious.
If that wasn't bad enough, she tacks on a so-called "twist" ending that's infuriating in it's absurdity.
More than that, the contrived twist ending is basically a big screw-you to the readers who've slogged through this embarrassing gimmick masquerading as a novel.
I really, really enjoyed this book. Wonderful prose, paradigm shifting angle. Thought provoking story.
We know this because they ask each other questions like, "Do you remember when we were lovers years ago in Africa and then years earlier in Boston?"It's a weekend of painful memories tinged with first mysterious and then tedious references to love, regret, incest, abortion, betrayal, and death - and the names of people we don't know.
It's something like attending your spouse's college reunion.But this first (last?) section ends on a hopeful note, the possibility of renewed love between two people ravaged by tragedy.Linda turns away and thinks, "Years had passed, and all of life was different now." This is a very significant point.
This tells the story of intense love between Linda and Thomas who first meet as high school teenagers then as young adults and much later as adults just past their prime when both have established themselves in similar careers.
Whether you love the ending or hate it, not many authors can surprise you at the very last page of the story.
It's the hallmark of a great writer I don't want to go on and on about the ending for I fear I might turn away someone from an otherwise great love story.
I saw Anita speak at a bookshop in Paris and was curious enough to read this, my first Shreve.
I finished this novel in a sushi restaurant in Paris (as one does).
Just one page before the end I felt it come on…….the shocking impact of this story about the disappointment in one man and one woman’s life together.
In this novel we arrive at the beginning of their story in the last few pages, the chronology has been related in reverse and here we are, at the start of the inevitable unraveling of a life.
I finished the last page later, in private.
I loved the altered time line in this book and admire the skill that went into pulling it off. Plus, the story of these two lovers engaged me right away. A funny thing about Shreve's ratings on goodreads: I seem to love the books that are rated lowest and vice versa (I never made it through Resistance, for example).
I find that Anita Shreve has such an unusual style of writing that it takes me several chapters to get ‘into’ her books but then I’m totally hooked. The idea of working back in time through the characters lives doesn’t always work but I felt it was necessary, in this novel, in order to produce the impact at the end. I literally had goosebumps as I read the final couple of pages. I loved the section set in Kenya, the description really made those scenes come alive. Really enjoyed it!
Shreve writes beautifully, but it is the ending that really sold me to this book which sometimes slowed and moved around so I got a little lost/bored/unfocused. Great story which I had to go back and read bits again to try and work it all out. Rather wonderful.
I checked out this book a year ago and 20 pages into the book I gave up on it.
I read the first couple of pages and it hits me that I tried reading this book and found it boring.
Even though I thought this, I kept on reading, and to be honest I am very glad I continued reading.This book is brilliant and beautiful.
It is the perfect balance of everything__ description, imagery, flashbacks and dialogue.
Sweet moments, sad moments, everything is the perfect balance.
Granted the flashbacks in the flashbacks had to make me reread a few pages, but it was still so beautiful; even to the very end...
I wanted to like this book more than I actually did.
I feel like I should have known the ending, just from the difference in punctuation from the first two parts of the book compared to the last.
However, in the first two sections, ALL conversations are in italics, even conversations that don't involve Linda.
Does that mean that Thomas imagined his entire life?I think the author meant it to be a kind of "Sixth Sense" OMG ending, but it just didn't work for me.
If you take one of the two main characters out of the first two sections, whole scenes just do not work anymore.Not so much shocking, as contrived and unbelievable.
ow to choose a favorite among Shreve's books? Not easy, but I'm going to recommend this nostalgic yet ambitious story of star-crossed lovers who meet across nearly four decades. If you love stories of first love and second chances and what might have been, do not miss it.
I've read this book several times over the years, and every time it manages to surprise me.
Which is a pretty good reason for you to read it to begin with.While this book is probably not one of the best out there, it sticks with you.
Weeks down the road after reading about it you find yourself thinking about it.It is a study on love.
It makes you want to turn back and read the whole thing all over again with a more discerning eye.
Spoiler alert-- Waste of time.
I was never able to get that into it anyway and then the ending was ridiculous.
If anyone understands the ending any better than me let me know.
I am assuming that the whole book was "linda's future flashing before her eyes." I read in Anita Shreve's interview at the end that there were supposed to be clues to the ending throughout the book, but I can't think of any.
Also why does every book these days have to have some form of child abuse in it?
Maybe I need to read a good cheesy love story from Nicholas Sparks.
The book is split into 3 parts moving backwards.
Linda and Thomas are both celebrated poets that have been in love since they met in high school at the age of 17.
Going further into the past to when they're 17 you find out how they met and fell in love.
** spoiler alert **I started to like this book more and more as it regressed to the past.
I can actually say I loved this book.
Thomas needs to ease his guilt for being the reason she doesn't live past the age of 17 so they don't end up together.
The story is in three parts, starting at the last time they meet (hence the title) and works its way backward to the beginning of their relationship - the first time they met.So that was a little odd, and I ended up reading the first 100 pages again, when they met for the last time, just so I could have a better understanding with all of the information I didn't have the first time around.Good book, especially for fans of unrequited, lost loves.As a side note, it made me sick to my stomach in a way that only the things that truly affect me do.
Anita Shreve's voice in all her books is wonderful and unique.
Someday, when I become a famous author, I hope I can write with the quality and emotion that Anita Shreve does in all her novels, and that readers will enjoy my writing just as much as I enjoy the works of Anita Shreve.I must admit that when I first read this book (years ago) that I wondered why dialogue in this novel was sometimes preceded with dashes instead of quotation marks, and that it was also set in italics sometimes.
Linda Fallon, accomplished poet, runs into her former lover and mentor Thomas Jane at a poetry reading event.
Jane has engineered this meeting in an attempt to rekindle the passion they had previously.
The love these two shared in tender, obvious and disastrous.
The story rolls backwards and forwards between their younger versions of love and their current emotions.
We can make what seem like tiny decisions and only later, when viewed from the comfort of space and time is it possible to see the repercussions of those decisions.This book is beautifully written, a breeze to read, and lingers like wisps of a dream.
The author can write, and there were some moments of brilliance (which is why I am giving it a 2 rather than just a 1).
But there were too many parentheticals in Linda's sections, and the use of the italics rather than the quotations annoyed me.
I wondered why, until of course, I figured it all out at the very end, which was RIDICULOUS.
I felt manipulated, and like I'd wasted my time reading the book, except for the aforesaid-mentioned moments of brilliance where the author so perfectly captures certain emotions.
But, I would not recommend this book to anyone because of how much I despised the ending.
Stories about agonizing, obsessive love make me uncomfortable -- (I keep wanting to ship the characters off to a psychiatrist) -- and I don't reading about squalid and painful surroundings, so this well-written novel had two strikes against it before I even got into it.
Which wasn't fair to the author.It was interesting because of the way the plot was designed.
It read backwards, starting with a current situation and working its way back to how the situation started.
And the end had a very interesting twist.As I said above, this is a well-written novel and I can see why it got good reviews.
Yet another Anita Shreve book where I absolutely love her writing, her incredible skill with words...
I hate the second to last sentence of this book.
She is incredible but I hate that sentence and when you average out those two things out the best compromise is 3 stars.
She is such a 5 star writer though that I will continue to read her works until I find the one book that blows the rest away.
her writing makes everything so real and I could feel the violence coming and just couldn't keep reading that one knowing it was coming.
