https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/487233.Bang_the_Drum_Slowly
I haven’t read a book quite like this in my life, and I’m not likely to again unless it’s another one by Mark Harris. No one else I’ve read writes in anything close to this voice. It’s fantastic. “But you do miss the noise and the excitement,” he said. “You never pass a ball field without lumping up a little in your throat. Goddam it anyhow, by the time you are old enough to have more sense than power you realize you already pissed away the most exciting days of your life.” “Do they leave you sw
I haven’t read a book quite like this in my life, and I’m not likely to again unless it’s another one by Mark Harris.
Goddam it anyhow, by the time you are old enough to have more sense than power you realize you already pissed away the most exciting days of your life.” “Do they leave you swear like that out there?” I said.
“How would you like to die tomorrow?” “I would not,” he said, “because I am under contract to fill out the year here, and because I keep laughing every minute, and because I want to finish up a book I am writing, and because I would like to see if you boys can cop the flag which you should of copped by now.
A beautiful novel about baseball and about death, aka TEGWAR, The Exciting Game Without Any Rules. The second and best of Mark Harris's Henry Wiggen books, which the Bison imprint of University of Nebraska Press has brought back into print (though you can still get the paperback containing the three titles from the '50s for < $5 used). The film version, starring a young Robert DeNiro as the "doomded" Bruce Pearson (and also starring a now-dead ballpark in Queens), may be my favorite baseball movie, and in an earlier TV version, Wiggen is played by a very young Paul Newman.
Originally published in 1956, this is frequently cited as the best baseball novel ever, but that’s like saying The Godfather has something to do with the Mafia.
Wiggen’s outsized authenticity comes through frequently, as when he’s haggling for a contract: “I rather play baseball than anything else,” he says.
I like to think of fifty thousand people getting up in the morning and squashing themself to death in the subway to come see me play ball.” Wiggen’s best friend is a friendly, wide-eyed innocent named Bruce Pearson, who is a ham-and-egger catcher on the team.
Wiggen's teammates affectionately refer to him as "Author" because he's written a baseball book.
It's true, baseball is made for statistics, but a scene near the middle of Bang the Drum, between several teammates in the locker room, takes it to new heights: "Today is the first time I ever officially hung this jock on this particular nail at 4:02 p.m. in the afternoon of July 9, 1955," said Perry.But all of that is mere backdrop to the real story: Bruce Pearson, Wiggen's pal and second string catcher, at the onset of the season is diagnosed with a terminal disease.
Harris' ball players are just the types you would expect to encounter in a clubhouse.
Though because this story takes place in the mid-fifties there is a major difference between the characters and ball players we know today.
The self-involved nature of Wiggen gives us a true perspective on the type of environment that all characters in the book live.
To say that an athlete can step out of the sphere of self-praise and truly be an altruistic character is foolish and an attempt to do so would have ruined the book.
This book is praised because of the vernacular used by he characters.
Bang the Drum Slowly is a satisfying novel about friendship, written in the first person voice of Henry Wiggin, ace pitcher of the New York Mammoths.
Wiggin is a smart baseball player and sharp-eyed observer of human nature.
The novel tells the story of Pearson’s final season with the Mammoth and how Wiggin’s does what he can to protect him and ensure that he plays the game he loves until the last possible moment.
The pennant race and game descriptions, however authentic, are unimportant backdrops to the friendship and strategies used to keep Pearson’s illness secret as long as possible, adding both humor and pathos to the narrative.
I guess I could see that the men were friends as well as teammates but even that was not very interesting.There were a couple of things that did stand out for me...One was humorous when some of the guys who use to be friends were not getting along and no one was speaking to anyone else, the narrator says "The whole club gives me the creeps.
I am libel to wake up some morning not speaking to myself." That was funny!The other thing I marked was on page 184 when he gives a description of what a catcher's job is and what he must do to help his pitcher...."His catcher must help him, must also be brain and memory and bluff, not only just stop the ball in case the hitter don't.
My biggest issue with the book is that the characters, including the Henry Wiggen - the narrator and main character - seem hollow and cardboard-like.
The parts of the book that were meant to have an emotional impact didn't resonate with me at all.
I think part of the problem may be that Harris chose to narrate the book from the point of view of a character who doesn't have a great deal of self-awareness or reflexivity.
He's as clueless about his own behavior and emotions (if he has any) as we are.
One is that the dialogue and camaraderie between the ball players was realistic right down to their nicknames given to them by teammates such as "Author" and "Canada" The baseball season is realistic as well and of course New York comes out on top.The friendship between Henry and Bruce is what really makes this story a classic.
It doesn't really start off that way since Henry sold insurance to Bruce (back when ballplayers needed a job in the offseason for the extra income) and then finds out afterward about Bruce's condition.
The journey Henry takes while his friend is dying is humorous, poignant and sad, yet surprisingly upbeat through most of it.
I loved this book.
I borrowed it from the library to begin with but then bought it so I can reread it whenever I want.
The New York Mammoths are now "my favorite baseball team ever" :D.
The first person narration was done so well that I know and like the Mammoths players and coaches better than any of the real-life ones I follow through the media, and their games and season were more memorable.The long passage where Henry Wiggen talks to his catcher about brains and confidence was brilliant; and it was one of only many parts that made me know I will read this book again.
Not life-changing or flashy, but a fun read.
A left-handed pitcher near the end of his career finds himself in a tough bind: his best friend on the team has a life threatening disease and only he knows about it.
As the season marches on and the team gets closer to the pennant, his friend gets worse until the club eventually finds out.
I really like the colloquial language and first person to second person narrative.
The chapters were also neither too long nor too short.
The ending was a bit too movie, especially in terms of timing, but a nice light read.
What a terrific story that stands the test of time.
I loved the voice of the narrator and the language from a common 1950s vernacular.
" a-tall, stunk up the joint, this is a dilly, louse it up" And funny- "I love motorcycles," he said.
"You are 19," I said, "You will get over it".
In a crowded room with the narrator, I bet I could listen in and find him.
A touching relationship slowly revealed between the two men and then the teammates .
I lucked out to borrow a Library copy from 1989.
The pages were browned, worn and dog eared.
One of the best sports books ever, this is the second of Harris' Henry Wiggin novels. This one centers around the star pitcher's friendship with Bruce Pearson, a journeyman catcher and world class simpleton who is dying of cancer. As in the southpaw, its a wonderful study of human nature written in a deceptively simple style that belies its depth and grace. One of the best last lines of any book I've read ("From Here on in I rag nobody.")
Started off very slow, and I really wasn't into it. Even contemplated not finishing it for a while, but boy, would that have been a mistake! I don't remember exactly where, but it got a lot better, quite quickly. It's a great story about life and death, and friendships with a baseball backdrop, but you need not be a baseball fan to enjoy it, although it probably would help.
Really enjoyed this classic baseball novel purportedly by a "southpaw" ballplayer for a great New York team called the Mammoths. Emotionally engaging page-turner with a unique narrative voice. Some time I'll dig up the other books in this series.
I know of no other book that addresses male relationships with this truth, the meanness men can display towards each other, even when it is to all their advantage to do otherwise. Friendship among women is a common literary theme. Among men or among men and women is seldom addressed.
Bruce, who’s not especially bright (I’d love to see how Robert DeNiro played him in the 1973 film), insists instead on calling him Arthur.Henry is at first the only one who knows about Bruce’s condition, and he agrees to hide it.
Bruce is starting to understand it, but Bruce has limited capacity to articulate much about experience.For a long time, then, Henry denies the fact of death.
It’s moving and beautiful, but it’s quiet and blunt too.As Henry figures out what’s going on, he both spends more time writing the book he feels called to write – with the writing of it part of the story as well – and with Bruce.
As I was a-walking the streets of Laredo, As I walked out in Laredo one day, I spied a young cowboy all wrapped in white linen, All wrapped in white linen and cold as the clay.This book is a sequel to “The Southpaw “ which is for the most part about Henry Wiggins first full season with the New York Mammouths,this story is for the most part about Bruce Pearson , the third string catcher,he was also a third string character.
The New York Mammouths ace pitcher Henry Wiggen gets a call from Rochester Minnesota informing him that Bruce Pearson the third -string catcher and Wiggins roommate is sick.
The second of a 4 part series, written by the late Mark Harris.
Tells a sad story of a baseball player who is doomed to die of cancer, and his friend and confidant star pitcher Henry Wiggen.
The book is actually a book about friendship wrapped around baseball.
Sports Illustrated rated this book at Harris's 1st book The Southpaw as one of the finest sports books of the 20th century.
One is the story of the way a doomed man may spend his last best year on earth.
The Natural is a wonderful novel, beautifully written and conceived. As is true, about The Natural, so is it true about Bang The Drum Slowly. It is beautifully written and the substance and style are poignant and funny and heartbreaking. I discovered the book in a box I have not gone through, until now. What a lucky find. Next in the surprise box is The Everlasting Man. I feel lucky.
I love baseball, I love books about baseball, but this is not a book about baseball. This is a book about relationships, motivations, emotional growth. Is it OK to do the right thing if you do it for the wrong reason?  It takes place in baseball, but it's a story I wish everyone would read. My favorite last line of a novel, but I won't spoil it, you'll enjoy the read it takes to get to it.
Other sports <<<<<<<<< Baseball <<<<<<<<<<<<< Sports movies <<<<<<<<<<<<<< Artfully minimalist baseball lit that's actually about friendship and mortalityGrade: A
A classic baseball novel, the first of four, a trilogy, and a final novel years later called It Looked Like For Ever, which is no less excellent than Drum.
A great story of friendship and death, woven into a baseball story. If you like baseball, you will enjoy reading this.
Excellent sports book. Don't let the folksy voice fool you. The book is full of life lessons of exquisite compassion and caring. A gift to the reader.
I didn't get some of the baseball specifics, but the power of love and friendship was clear. I read the book during the day at work, then watched the film that night. Beautiful.
At first the way Henry told the story really annoyed me and I thought that I wouldn't be able to get over his way of storytelling and I'd have to abandon the book.
However I soon began to enjoy his weird dialogue and the fact that he says "leave" instead of "let" (So like "Leave us go to the park" instead of "Lets go to the park") and by the end of the book it actually felt sort of natural to me.
(view spoiler)[ It was really sad when Bruce died especially because it came as sort of a shock, I knew something would happen but at one point it seemed like he was getting better.
BANG THE DRUM SLOWLY should be read by aficionados of the sport; it is not THE KEYSTONE KID ETC.
BANG THE DRUM is a book of great variety and brilliance.
We live with two of the characters in particular, and the whole team eventually especially Dutch, the coach.
Here are a few excerpts: "Today was the first time in my official and unofficial life I ever fouled out in the seventh inning with a count of 2-2 on me againtst a right-handed pitcher name of Fairbright." "Today is the first time I ever officially hung this jock on this particular nail at 4:02 in the afternoon of July 9, 1955." Baseball lovers, embrace this book and also the film with Robert DeNiro, Michael Moriarity and Vincent Gardenia.

This book tells a story about a baseball team, its triumphs and challenges during one season, and the friendship of two players, Henry (Author) Wiggen and Bruce Pearson.
Bruce is diagnosed with a terminal disease before the season and Henry is the only one on the team who knows.
The descriptions of many players on the team could have been taken from today's sports pages, even though this story is set in the 1950s.
They drink, gamble, etc., and there is a reference toward the end of the book to "special pills" that players take to stay alert.
