https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/794542.The_Italian_Woman
The Italian Woman explores the middle stages of Catherine Medici's middle stages of her royal career as the powerful mother of kings. Much is based on contemporary hearsay and not modern historical reports. Great events such as the St. Bartholomew Massacre are merely glossed over. There is no deep character development. Even Medici doesn't come across as the ruthless villainess her reputation states. As this the second book in a trilogy I'll read the third to finish the series.
But Catherine's true intention was to bring Henry, her favorite son, on throne.
She brings "tutors" to make Charles, don't get interested in women, she wanted to aggravate his madness and initiate him into the way of perversions, so this way her power on throne wouldn't be insecure.
She also threatens Charles, using his mental disorder, to make him do whatever she wants.
The court during Catherine de' Medici reign was immoral!
I think the first book is more like "the italian woman", but on this second book, is much more like "madame serpent"!
Blah, but her research was good.
Very unbalanced narrative as the story begins from Jeanne d'Albret's perspective and swaps midway to Catherine, for no apparent reason, other than that's where all the dirty deeds are happening.
They make the Tudors look good.
I read this because I wanted to get more of a feel for this time period, and it did help me untangle some of the dynastic snarls and vendettas which had gotten a bit mixed up in my head.
I also appreciated that she came up with a plausible motive for Catherine wanting Jeanne dead, which historians like to pooh pooh now as Huguenot propaganda.
The Italian Woman was my first Jean Plaidy and it was Catherine de Medici at her best. Unfortunately I read the middle book of the trilogy first but I can't wait now to read Queen Jezebel. Anything to do with the Medici family fascinates me - an enjoyable Bank Holiday read.
This is the second in a trilogy about Catherine d'Medici. Jean Plaidy is a wonderful writer and does her best to stay within history while filling in the emotions and turmoil that makes up the very real lives of historical figures. I didn't read book 1, and this reads fine as a stand alone.
i thought this was a fairly good book but it did take me awhile to get into it
Being the second in the Medici trilogy the book focuses on the middle of Catherine de Medici's life.
However, the first part of the book focuses on the early life of Jeanne d'Albret Queen of Navarre and how her developing relationship with Catherine from rival to enemy is fumed by jealousy and ambition.
The Queen of Navarre only wants a quiet life with her husband and children but is dragged into court politics with the civil war of religion turning to her as a Protestant leader against the Catholics.I really enjoyed this book and found it really hard to put it down when I did have the chance to read it.
Honestly I continued reading this book because I felt it my duty to read the whole thing.
I will probably never pick up a book by Jean Plaidy again.
She takes the evilest, vilest rumors about history's most important people and breathes a weird, sadistic life to them.
Reading this book, I felt no attachement to ANY of the characters.
It was almost like reading something immature, a weak attempt at bringing these figures to life.
Catherine de Medici may not have been innocent but to treat her as a monster, a person capable of only loving ONE of her many children while manipulating and treating the rest as worthless pawns is reprehensible to me.
Catherine is in her prime, having children and working behind the scenes in support of her husband.
Another strong woman is brought into the picture, Jeanne of Navarre.
Catherine considers her a rival and they clash in both political and religious fields.
As there lives change with the death of the king and the marriage of Jeanne, their fortunes wax and wane.
The unrest in the country leads to civil war and Catherine delves deeper into harsh political manipulations/murders to ensure the rights of her dynasty.
The young girl that we occasionally pitied in the first book has developed into a strong and dangerous woman.
Wow. From this point of view, Catherine Dr Medici had good reason to become a cold, strong-minded, ruthless bitch. I'm only surprised that she didn't break out a voodoo doll on Diane de Poitiers. She definitely should have worked harder at being closer to her own children, though. Looking forward to the next two books, but I'm indulging in the First Ladies of America as a break.
Fun reading by Jean Plaidy and it balanced out the other Catherine Medici book I read last year (The Confessions of Catherine de Medici by C.W. Gortner).
That book had a lot of compassion for Catherine and turned her adversary, Jeanne of Nevarre, into quite an antagonist that was easy to hate.
Plaidy seems to side with Jeanne and turns Catherine into a cold calculating temptress.
Some of our evolving notions about women are missing from this book but I do love that Catherine is not seen as maternal or terribly loving.
I didn't feel like this was a middle book until the ending which was very unsatisfying.
Not as good as the first in the series, but still a reasonable look at the life of Catherine de Medici. This takes her from the death of her husband, Henry II, to the death of Jeanne d'Albret, queen of Navarre.The pace is patchy, and unfortunately the last section of the book is the slowest.
I gave it 4 stars because although I enjoyed the book I preferred the first one - Madame Serpent better. It was still intriguing but with the in and out of Jeanne of Navarre it seemed to venture off from Catherine. Looking forward to the final of the series Queen Jezebel!
A bit repetitive and lacking in good storytelling, but interesting for the history of the times for those of us with an interest.
La narrativa cambio mucho, no sientes que es la misma autora, tal vez porque no es la misma Catalina, sigue siendo.muy interesante y lamentó no haber encontrado el tercero aun.
The Italian Woman is the second novel in a trilogy about Catherine de 19Medici and her nemesis, Queen Jeanne of Navarre.
I recommend reading that book first to get a good feel for the stories and characters in the second novel.
Jeanne, princess of France, is Catherine 19s late husband 19s cousin.
Jeanne is a staunch Huguenot Protestant while Catherine is devoutly Catholic.
In the political arena, this places them at odds with Protestant England and Catholic Spain, bringing great tension and historical detail into the story.Jean Plaidy is one of the great historical fiction authors of our time.
Only when we reach the second of the three long chapters in this book does Catherine once again take centre stage, carrying on from where events in Book One finished.There’s more scope in “The Italian Woman” than in “Madame Serpent”.
Thus, in a sense it’s better to have more variation, but I still prefer “Madame Serpent” for its more limited yet more engrossing themes.I admit to feeling much less sympathy for Catherine in this novel, as she’s no longer the neglected queen who’s considered a meek fool.
Although I like the first in the trilogy more than this second instalment, “The Italian Woman” still proved to be an entertaining read.
3.75 starsThis is the 2nd book in Plaidy’s trilogy of Catherine de Medici.
Catherine was known as Madame le Serpent and was often thought to have poisoned her enemies.
Part of the book also focuses on Jeanne of Navarre, as – at this point in Catherine’s life – Jeanne and Catherine’s lives are quite intertwined.
Another good book by Plaidy.
Jeanne of Navarre is someone who I knew nothing about and I am only learning of Catherine through this series by Plaidy.
It’s hard to compare with Madame Serpent, the first of the trilogy, because it’s been too long since I read it.
I would really consider this worth a 3.5 rating instead of a full 4.
There were all sorts of comments about Catherine poisoning people or having them poisoned (especially those of lower rank), but you never actually witness this happening except for one or two times (and those people were major people).
Likewise, there were all sorts of comments made about her poison closet, but I don't remember Catherine actually doing anything with it.
I think it would have been more interesting if more people were taken out - she's suppose to be this evil, evil woman, so I would have liked to see more of it instead of just people talking about it.
Oh my, where to begin?
It was definitely harder to feel any sympathy for Catherine in this book.
I shudder to think of what she's going to become in the third novel in the series, because her humanity slips away a little more with every page.
The way the beginning of the book was laid out, I was confused - it turns out this book overlaps the previous one; it does not just pick up where Madame Serpent left off.
I look forward to reading the last in the series.

More about Catherine de Medici after the death of her husband, the King of France, Henry 2nd- she tried to ruled her 1st son Frances 2nd who was king and let him die from an ear infection because he was under the influence of the Guise family thru their niece Mary Queen of Scotts.
Her 2nd son, King Charles 7th was mad and she greatly influenced him but he was so stupid that she longed for her 3rd son, Henry to become king.
She poisoned many of her enemies and took part on one side and then the other of the wars between the French Huguenots and the Catholics.
This was a very interesting book.
I know Jean Plaidy is considered a doyenne of historical fiction, thanks to her immaculate research and attention to detail. And I hate when a historical novel gets the facts wrong. But historical accuracy alone does not a gripping novel make. I felt that Plaidy forgot the cardinal rule of good writing: Show, don't tell. Instead we got lots and lots of telling--in sometimes clunky syntax to boot. The end result was that I felt I'd learned a lot about Catherine de Medici, her children, and her court, but my senses and emotions were never involved.
Catherine de Medici is the most untrusted woman in France. She is however, the most understated woman in France as well. Kept on the sidelines for years, her enemies have no idea what she is capable of, or how far she will go to get what she wants, and what she feels she deserves. In the Italian Woman, we see the nature of Catherine de Medici coming out, and her enemies are starting to realize that she is a woman not to be messed with. How far will she go to get her hearts desire?Great read! I loved it!
The fascinating story of Catherine d'Mecidis and her time as queen regent in France up to the events prior to St. Barthelemy's massacre. A well written and documented historical novel, in which all major characters are well drown and so strong the reader gets involve and even takes sides. Even though madame Catherine did some terrible things, the portrait the author offers is that of a woman full of doubts, rancor, and power-thirst, but also a woman incapable of understanding or loving others.
One thing that greatly disappointed me about this book (number 2 in the trilogy) was that very little mention was given to Diane after the King passed away. I was really looking forward to Catherine taking her revenge when it was in her power (finally) to do so. Otherwise, I enjoyed this book. It could be read out of sequence or on it's own. It didn't pick up right where book one left off at all.
The first two books in this three book series would have been MUCH better as a single (although large) volume. The second book is much better than the first. This one does give a lot more background information, although it still often skips over major events (wars) with a single sentence. It also fails to tell why she is oftente so timid in dealing with adversaries, but much better than the first.Good read.
Este libro no me fue tan grato como la primera parte, no es que estuviera mal redactado, pero Catalina de Médicis muestra su lado más obscuro y mezquino arruinando la vida de muchas personas y tomando decisiones que incrementan su impopularidad, sin embargo aparecen nuevos personajes como la famosa princesa Margot de Valois quien es presentada como alguien simpática e instruida.
I was disappointed in this book. It was a bit boring considering the 2 females were interesting historical figures. It ended very abruptly. I know it is part of a series but it did not end well. The Queen of Navarre was a predominant focus for the first part of the book and then she almost disappears for the remainder. I usually like Jean Plaidy's work but thought this was substandard.
Catherine de' Medici , a Queen much surrounded by speculation and a woman which ruled Kings.This book was very insightful in both the lives of Catherine and Jeane of Navarre , and the rivalry the two shared all their lives. Unfortunately I read this book first and didn't realise it was part of a trilogy , and now I'm looking forward to the sequel .
