https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13414676-the-end-of-your-life-book-club
Update: I read this book when it was first released.
I paid full price - bought the hard copy and still own it and have referred to the glossary in the back of the book many times.
I have also - since reading this book bought AT LEAST a DOZEN copies ....or more ( Not at full price)...
lolbut in case they do -- I'll get my hands on the book one way or another --- I suppose I'll have to buy the book again if I want the hard copy.
that not everyone loved this book...
I appreciate that Will Schwalbe's mother appears to have been a woman who championed many valuable causes and did great things, however, the description of her in this book doesn't even make her sound human.
The description of the Mother/Son relationship didn't make me feel emotional, the book club books were not discussed in enough detail to make me want to read them and it seemed like a lot of this book was screaming 'look how privileged we are'.
At best, reading the book made me feel like I had trespassed at someone's funeral/wake at worst it made me feel like I was participating in a very dull book club.
With his "book club," Mr. Schwalbe gives a wonderful gift to his mother, an outlet for discussing issues that make most people around a sick person uncomfortable -- and a way to talk about something other than being sick.I also appreciated that Mr. Schwalbe, a person of no professed faith, does not denigrate the books his mother cherishes at the end of her life -- The Book of Common Prayer and Daily Strengths For Daily Needs.
I hadn't intended to find myself reading a memoir of a parent's pancreatic cancer; call me oversensitive (and a sucker), but books like this make me FURIOUS!
Let's you and me read something edgy like Pynchon or something sweet like Alice Munro before we dart off to a benefit or the symphony or to humanitarian work in the Third World - oh sorry, what?
Reading fiction will put it all into perspective for us!"(So is it true that there were drug trials for pancreatic cancer treatment accepting patients in March 2009?
if you like the book and it's making the world a better place, then great.
A beautiful book about the connection through books a mother and son were able to make it the years leading up to her death from pancreatic cancer.
I lost my mother to cancer six years ago, and I really envy how Will and his mother Mary Ann were able to find a common language to discuss the questions of life, death, and the possibility of the hereafter.I wish my mother and I had had that common language.
But at the same time, it's helped me to rid myself of a lot of misplaced guilt that I had been placing on my own head.
"Reading isn't the opposite of doing; it's the opposite of dying."This is an amazing memoir.
So it's a book about books, but it's also about the lessons Will learned from his mom.
I would recommend this book to any book lovers, but also to those who are coping with the serious illness of a family member."We're all in the end-of-our life book club, whether we acknowledge it or not; each book we read may well be the last, each conversation the final one."
The tiny glimpses into the author's childhood show a mother who was not present for her children, neither emotionally nor physically.
Don't get me started...) But, the author continues to extol his mother's virtues.
(The funny thing was that I don't remember the author talking about a book that they didn't like.) I did write down some of their choices to check out here on GoodReads, so I might find something from their lists that I like.
Finally, the author worked as an editor for over twenty years, yet this book sorely needed editing.
Este chamou-me a atenção pelo título; comprei-o e comecei a lê-lo pensando tratar-se de um livro sobre livros, que me iria dar a conhecer mais umas quantas maravilhas.
Se fosse ficção quantificava-o com três estrelas, correspondentes ao "gostei", porque acho que Will Schawlbe é um bom filho mas não um bom escritor.
Mas porque achei admirável a pessoa que foi Mary Anne Schwalbe - antes e durante a doença - acrescento uma estrela.
A outra Estrela dedico a uma amiga (daqui do Goodreads) que, tal como Mary Anne, também manteve a sua paixão pelos livros até ao fim...(Eu não devia ter lido este livro...)
There were some moments of deeper meaning but it seemed to me that Will Schwalbe didn’t address either the books he and his mother read or tell the reader enough about why they were important.
I was disappointed because I felt the project could have been so much more.The most useful and positive aspect of the book was the person centred nature of the care that Mary Anne Schwalbe chose for herself.
As such, this might give the strength to others with illness to make decisions about their own care or allow their families to see how important it can be to manage cancer in the way that best suits each individual, even if it means some painful choices.
Everyone should read this book, no matter what they are going through, and even if they aren't going through anything at all but just living their life.Quotes:"...and I'm also talking about kindness, not just about being nice.
Kindness has much more to do with what you do, that how you do it.""I like books.
I don't read them, but I like them.""You can always tell them to read...""We're all in the end-of-our-life book clubs, whether we acknowledge it or not; each book we read may well be the last, each conversation the final one."
Rarely do I take the time to write a review for the books I read, but I felt that I owed it to the author (and, most definitely, to his mother) to at least try and type out my thoughts as coherently as possible.This was one of the few select books that captivated me from the very first page.
Mom taught me that you can make a difference in the world and that books really do matter: they're how we know what we need to do in life, and how we tell others.
The book cover's flap has the best word to described this book: profoundly moving, joyful (in spite of loss) and a celebration of life, love and the written word.I'm very fussy about reading non-fiction and more judgmental of non-fiction than fiction; very often I think someone wants to tell a story just to 'hear' themselves 'talk'.
Some parts are hysterically funny, and others are crushingly sad."The End of Your Life Book Club" details the final two years of Mary Ann Schwalbe, who died after battling metastatic pancreatic cancer.
As time progressed, they took it to a new level, both of them reading the same book, so that they could discuss it while the medicine dripped slowly into Mary Ann's veins.
Sometimes it was a shared family memory; other times, Mary Ann described one of her many adventures, or Will talked about authors he'd published, or his new dot-com business.
Even as the end approaches, Mary Ann Schwalbe had a surprise or two.
I started out loving the book and the story behind it...
who wouldn't love a book about books.
Maybe it was the endless recitation of the cancer treatments or the preachiness that creeps in toward the end that bothered me, but I found that this book morphed less into a lovely memoir about his mom and their book club and more into a platform for his personal needs and views.
Maybe I am being overly critical but it just turned a little sour for me toward the end.
I don't often give books 2 stars, and I feel pretty heartless doing it for this one.
It maybe deserves 1, but I got some ideas for books to read, so fine.
I kept wishing that I was reading a good memoir-type book like The Glass Castle, or Little Heathens, or Toast by Nigel Slater, or...well, anything, really.
There are SO MANY other beautifully written memoirs that I was kind of annoyed I spent a week reading this one.
Oh well, whatever, at least I have some books for my to-read list.
Knopf Publishing and Anne Kingman & Michael Kindness of Books on the Nightstand for the advanced reading copy of this book which will be published October 2012.There is so much I'd like to tell you about The End of Your Life Book Club by Will Schwalbe but this is one of those books you need t read yourself and take away what you will.
From the very first sentence "We were nuts about the mocha in the waiting room at Memorial Sloane Kettering's outpatient care center" to its very last words, this book is a loving tribute to Will's mother and perhaps if not totally healing at least to work through his grief.
So, if like me, you came here looking for a book about books, keep looking.Things I enjoyed: There are many great quotes from this book, something that adds to any read for me.
I respect successful people and do not resent them for the financial rewards for which they have worked.
For example, when buying art, she preferred to purchase from a young artist (career wise, not age) as more than likely, the financial sale would mean more to them than it would for a more established artist.Things I disliked: Again, mom was a control freak.
We didn't read only "great books," we read casually and promiscuously and whimsically.Besides being a great love letter to reading, this book serves as a wonderful tribute to Mary Anne Schwalbe, a fascinating and remarkable woman who traveled the globe for various human rights causes.
If you've been fortunate enough to have a parent with whom you've shared a love of reading, this book should have some meaning to you.We all have a lot more to read than we can read and a lot more to do than we can do.
I am afraid this is a cynical reaction, but knowing that the author comes from the publishing industry, I felt that his litany of book titles was nothing more than a device to frame the story about his mother and create a secondary subject to make the book more marketable.
Despite dropping the titles and plot summaries of dozens and dozens of books I never felt that Schwalbe recounted any meaningful conversations based upon the reading list he shared with his mother.A perfect example of this was the very first book mentioned in the memoir: Wallace Stegner's CROSSING TO SAFETY.
The two members of this book club are Schwalbe and his mother, Mary Ann. Almost from the get-go I felt no bond with these people.
While Mary Ann did all sorts of good things for refugees; the details of which go on and on for pages, it also wasn't uncommon for her family to just have tubs of caviar at christmas time that her neighbors just dropped off.
And did I mention she is well into the fourth stage of pancreatic cancer at this point?The whole book alternates between recollections like the above and moments where Schwalbe just elevates his mother so high on a pedestal.
Usually after Mary Ann dispenses some Hallmark, dying person wisdom.
“We're all in the end-of-your-life book-club, whether we acknowledge it or not; each book we read may well be the last, each conversation the final one.” This is one of the most beautifully written memoirs I have ever read. When Schwalbe’s 73-year-old mother, Mary Anne, is diagnosed with stage 4 pancreatic cancer, she determines to continue living her life at the same wistful speed despite grim life expectancy statistics. A retired teacher and active humanitarian, her son graciously introduces
“We're all in the end-of-your-life book-club, whether we acknowledge it or not; each book we read may well be the last, each conversation the final one.”
A retired teacher and active humanitarian, her son graciously introduces readers to this magnificent woman by means of their two-person book club, spontaneously contrived during Mary Anne’s lengthy chemo therapy sessions in hospital.
I love books about books, and reading about people who are just as fond of literature warms my heart.
The way Schwalbe paints Mary Anne’s final moments, surrounded by family and countless volumes of much loved books, was so elegant and beautiful.
I think the most underrated human trait is kindness, a notion reinforced when I hear about people who devote their lives to helping and caring for others.
What made me interested in The EOYLBC was the idea of a son discussing books with his mother while she is undergoing chemo treatments.
What kept me interested was his amazing mother, who seemed to define the meaning of the word kind.
I do think I expected the story to be more about the books and not so much about the chemo, a sore subject with me; but I got a lot out of The EOYLBC anyway.

I've had this book for sometime, I put off reading it because it was personal to me.
I loved this book for so many reasons.
Who doesn't love a book about books?
There's so much more in this book, joy, life lessons, wisdom, an inside look at a family who is faced with a big bump in the road.
Life has bumps in the road, some bigger than others.
The Schwalbe family handled it like a well oiled machine, as a team, with dignity, grace and much love.
Kudos to Mary Ann Schwalbe for this.
A beautiful tribute by her son, Will Schwalbe.
Yet, this book is so much more, it is a celebration of a life that was lived well, a life that helped other people, the love of a son for his mother and a love of books, stories and the belief that they can make a huge difference.
A celebration of reading and all it entails, how his mother will live on in her love of books and especially in the books that were her favorites and the love of reading she passed on to the rest of her family.
I love to read and to be able to share my love of books with others and this was exactly about that and the relationship forged between son and terminally ill mother.
Not only because of the love of reading they shared, but because this woman was a phenomenal person who changed people's lives, doing whatever she could to make things better.
This book made me want to do more with my life and to be a better person.
I, too, share the belief that reading can make the world a better place.
Reading can change lives.
Kudos to a life well read.
So it was not at all unusual when Will, sitting with his mother in the waiting room of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, asked Mary Anne, "What are you reading?" That conversation started the two on an incredible journey of reading, exploring new and favorite authors, and discussing topics far beyond the books they read.As a voracious reader, I absolutely fell in love with this book on so many levels.
Then again, as an English teacher, I do read lots of YA and children's books!
You need to learn to recognize these things right from teh start.
151)I was struck by this quote from another book, Kokoro: "Loneliness is the price we have to pay for being born in this modern world, so full of freedom, independence and our own egotistical selves." In discussing Olive Kitteridge, his mother says, "Loneliness can kill people - in different ways can actually make you die.
The devastation the Schwalbe family felt when their mother, Mary Anne was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer was intense.
She wanted to spend as much time with her family, especially her grandchildren, as she could, and that came about as she ended up having almost two years of life after diagnosis, which meant a lot to everyone.As Mary Anne’s son, Will (the author) spent a lot of time with his mother especially during the chemotherapy treatments, it came about that they formed their own small book club.
Mary Anne was missed by many, as she had touched many, many lives throughout her own life.

