https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/869040.The_Secret_World_of_Og
I can't believe I finally found this book! I remember my grade three teacher reading this to our class. Whenever I think back to books from my childhood, I always saw flashes of scenes from this book without being able to remember the full title. Now I've found it again and the nostalgia floods back! Thank you, goodreads!
Such fun! I do not know how I missed this little gem as a nerdy well-read child! Considering I devoured every book Berton wrote on the great white north, yet this was his favourite. What?! And the references to the joy and importance of children reading just did my heart good! I hope this story continues to reach generations of children (and adults).
I enjoyed this book by one of Canada's premier authors. For children, and illustrated by a child, I think it is very well done. It does have some rough edges, hence the lower rating, but please read it if you love the world of a child's imagination.
Read this as a kid, all my siblings did. If I hadn't read it again as an adult it would have garnered 4 stars. Read this book to a kid you know and open up a new world and foster a love of reading.
The Secret World of Og was the first book I ever really fell in love with, but as all things go I eventually moved on and promptly forgot about Og. Years and years pass as I desperately try to remember the books title, author, anything that would help me rediscover it, having forgotten (as most children do) the very details that would be required for locating it.
I hope someday to finally reunite with the one book that became more then just a book for me and start the journey all over again.
Just reread this with my (almost) 9 year old son and remembered anew why I loved this so much as a kid. The entire idea of an underground river, waterfall (!) and town still strikes me as absolutely divine. How I wish I could discover Og and play pretend. And yet there's a bitter sweetness at the end as well where you come to understand that the kids are growing up (Penny and Pamela in particular) and that they are unlikely to ever experience such wonders again.
Read this for school (grade 5 or 6 I think) and was quite taken by it and read it a couple of more in the years following. Of all the Canadian content that I was forced to read in school, this was probably the only one I ever re-read :)A legitimate childen's classic
read it to Hannah; Simon read it himself. it was an amazing tale. i LOVED it. very quirky.
This is an awesome imaginative plot by a CND author, that includes his children in the plot! Lots of entertainment.
I remember this book from my childhood. I just read it out loud to my children. A group of five siblings have an underground adventure. They liked it. Fun pictures too.
one of my childhood books. fun to re read 😊
This was one of my favorite books as a child. Sweet and fun and fully of imagination and magic. I would highly recommend for any child. A true Canadian classic.
I can hardly be a fair critic of this book because I grew up watching the TV show when it would come on a few times a year as a cartoon morning special.
so watching it was kind of a special deal; requiring the perfect mix of parental approval and cartoon chance.
AND they mostly get along and stick together as a family, which in my book makes a fantastic story to read to my kids.
He loved it just as I did, carrying it around the house and reading bits himself when once in a while I had to put it down.In this story, five siblings--all based on and named for Berton's actual children--find a secret staircase under their playhouse that takes to them to a secret world of childlike green people.
These little green Ogs sneak up to the above-ground world at night and gather up any toys or comic books they find lying around outside.
Also, there is a scene late in the story where one of the children actually has a noose put around his neck and the Ogs start pulling - I do wish that wasn't there.
My oldest sister used to read books to us (though we could read for ourselves, but she did some good voices and she enjoyed it and also she was the boss and I wasn't allowed to sleep in the bed we shared if I didn't do everything she said) and this was one that stood out.
(Another was Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone, but that's another story.) Of course, what none of us realised at the time was that it was written by pre-eminent Canadian novelist Pierre Berton.
There were always many of Berton's books on our shelves, my dad's reading, and never did I realise that I had read him too, far far earlier.
It's about 5 siblings who discover an undergound world populated by little green people and when they do, it's quite an adventure for them and their two pets, a dog and a cat called Earless Osdick (quite the best name ever!) who thinks he's a dog.
Berton, a reknowned Canadian journalist, wrote it in the early 60s for his children, naming the characters after this first five, and his daughter later drew the illustrations for a later release which is the version I have.
The characters of the children are vivid and very real.
Definitely enjoyed this little slice of my childhood.
I loved this book when I read it as a child--it was assigned to my Grade Five class and I just adored it. We read a lot of fantasy novels in that grade for some reason--I particularly remember this one and The Borrowers. Anyway, at the time I had no idea this book was written by an author famous for his accounts of Canadian history. It's about the Berton family siblings and their quest to retrieve their youngest brother from the secret world underneath their playhouse. The illustrations were done by Pierre Berton's daughter Patsy.
One of the most entertaining childrens books ever written.
I found an old battered copy in a storage room of my elementary school when I was a child and begged to be allowed to read it.
It magically transported me along with the children in the story to the world of og.
Then many years later when my kids were small I found a copy in a used book store and I read it to them.
We were all enthralled, now my kids are teenagers and refer to the book fondly...I wouldn't be surprised if they read it to their children one day.
This is the book I remember most from my childhood. My third grade teacher, Mrs. Atterberry, read this book to our class. The story stayed with me but I couldn't remember the title of the book or the author. It wasn't until 2009 that I finally found it. Although my daughter was already out of college, I read it to her during a visit. It was as funny, charming, and lovely as I remembered. It will be one to read to my grandchildren.
I remember this being one of my favorite read-alouds in elementary school. I was thrilled to find it at a used bookstore for $.90. Of course, I picked it up to read with my children. It did not disappoint. The children and their adventure in the world under their playhouse was something we looked forward to reading together each night. It's not an indepth story by any stretch, but it's great fun for young children's imaginations!
This one has a fun premise and it is likeable but it lacks the depth for my adult mind. The author created beautiful imagery for me but the characters were lacking. My children (4/6/7) could not get interested and I found them sleeping on one occasion because the book is full of nonsense to a kid of their generation. (It was written 55+ years ago after all.) We finished it anyways as it's a Canadian Classic.
I'm afraid Delphine and I gave up on this one. It's actually the second time I've started reading it and given up; it's just too slow, and I'm not all that interested in the characters. I feel guilty because it's CanCon and it's supposed to be a classic and a friend gave it to us, but I just can't do it. (Delphine's read it all the way through before and she quite liked it, but she asked if we could stop reading it out loud. Maybe it's okay if you read fast.)
This just popped up in "Books You May Enjoy". I had completely forgotten! My father gave me this book when I was eight or nine. He had read it as a child and enjoyed it, so he bought me a copy. I remember liking it enough to finish in a couple days, but I wasn't crazy about it. I had no idea this was a Canadian book, but I'm not surprised.
The Secret World of Og is a story I wish more people have read throughout the world. Primarily a favourite of Canadian children, it truly is a story that is relatable to many children including the dynamics of family and the desire to visit and explore secret worlds. If you're looking for a book to read with your child and want to cherish the experience, this is it.
This is my most favourite book ever! I first read it as a child and have loved this fun, imaginative adventure ever since. It's written by a Canadian author, Pierre Berton, for his own children with great simple illustrations done by his daughter. I have read it over and over again and can't wait to share it with my own children.
I read this book in the fifth grade for a novel study, and I still think about it today. There's something truly magical about it. While I wouldn't recommend it to adults, I definitely suggest you offer it to your children.
Fun children's book with a lovely premise that I somehow missed as a child. It's fanciful, funny, and charming, but it lacks the depth I would require for me to give it a higher rating (mind you, perhaps a child would rate it differently!). Good book for kids,
I remember reading it back in school... And I remember being completely swept away in this secret world of Og. I really enjoyed it. And recently I was looking at a Used Bookstore for a copy for my daughter for when she is old enough. :)
i found it!!! can't believe it, it's the book my big sister read to us over & over before i ever could hardly walk, much less read....wonderful stories, a little scary at times for little ones, but lovely......need to buy!
I hadn't thought about this book in many years even though it holds a very special place in my heart. I'll have to re-read it again to see how it compares as a novel read by a 12 year old boy to a 45 year old man.
