https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/856917.Absolute_Boyfriend_Vol_1
HI-LAR-I-OUS.
Soshi; Riiko's friend and smexy glasses boy!
Who irritates the living daylights out of Riiko (and she does the same, if not more, to him) but secretly cares for her.
Night: The 'mail order Night Lover', who is basically the perfect boy.
Protective, adorable, hot, a little horny, sweet, kind, caring....the list goes on.
I wouldn't have included the 'strip club' scene probably, but I guess it's another example of Night's (the 'doll') protection of Riiko.
Though I hated reading about it.
If you're looking for a fun, cute, adorable, hilarious manga read, pick this up!
The first volume in Absolute Boyfriend is tons of fun. High schooler Riiko is sick of being rejected by other men, so when a strange man gives her a card for a special website where she can buy a robotic boyfriend, she figures there's no harm in signing up for the free trial. Unfortunately, things get complicated fast. Absolute boyfriend is an over-the-top romantic comedy series filled with laughs, slapstick, and a touch of romance and drama. I'm eagerly looking forward to continuing this incredibly fun series.
This review is for the series, volumes 1-6.This is a story about a girl who orders a robot.
The girls bullied Riiko horribly because they wanted Night for themselves.
Girls don't turn into rabid beasts just because they like a guy!Another plot point I had trouble with involved rape.
(view spoiler)[There was a newer model robot trying to make moves on Riiko, and one day she woke up in a hotel bed with him thinking they'd had sex.
<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3.....Okay, I originally planned to fill up an entire screen with hearts, but I'm impatient, it's eleven o'clock at night, and I've been swimming all freaking day so I can't bring myself to take the time or effort to do so.Instead....IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII LLLLLLLLLLLOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVEEEEEEEEEEEE TTTTTTTTTTHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHIIIIIIIIIIIIISSSSSSSSSSSSSSS SSSSSSSSSSSSEEEEEEEEEERRRRRRRRRRRRIIIIIIIIIIIIEEEEEEEEEEEESSSSSSSSSS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!God, Yuu, I knew you were good, but this goes beyond five stars.
I loved loved loved loved loved loved loved loved loved loved loved it.Okay, so I've actually read the entire series, but I read it online, so I don't exactly know which volume to review for which part.
So Riiko wants to finally find a boyfriend, but after too many rejections she had enough and decides to do something more drastic. The solution to her problem will come out of a box!When she will find a cell phone on her way home, everything will change for her. She returns it to the owner and he will help her find exactly what she wants..:D THOUGHTS ABOUT THE BOOK- Riiko is funny and impulsive.- Quick read! Nice overall.- Hilarious and fresh with fairly decent artwork.- The whole robot idea was so entertaining..- I love Night!!!
Absolute boyfriend is about a high school girl – Riiko – who falls into a situation that involves having a robot boyfriend.
After freaking out (What high school girl wouldn't?) she gives him lessons on reactions, emotions, and how to live a daily life.Riiko is extremely lovable.
She starts caring for Night, and when women hit on him, she gets fiercely (and adorably) protective.
After a while with Riiko, he shows more emotion and tries to please her in different ways then when his system first started.
Night becomes extremely protective of Riiko and sometimes tries to fight her battles.
As a reward for returning his phone that she found, he gives her a business card to that directs her to visit a site where she can mail order a boyfriend for a 3-day trial period.
Although the mail order boyfriend she named Night tenjo is built to Riiko's specifications, she did not think through what the Nightly Series.01 model would wish to fulfill.
Riiko fails to read the fine print of the contract and misses the return time for Night Tenjo.
Will she succeed in getting the salesman off her back, will Night stay with her or will she realize that a real boyfriend was only an apartment away?
One of my first manga read, venturing in the shojo genre.
Imagine that - I never really care about mangakas when it comes to this genre and then I found out I'm actually reading/watching lots of works from the same author.
Absolute Boyfriend Vol. 1 is a romantic comedy series.
This manga used almost every teenage fantasy as a theme- having the perfect boyfriend.
This manga is an absolute fun read.
Its the best work of Yuu Watase for me for I found the two I've mentioned above melodramatic.
I'm revisiting this manga nowadays.
AND I'M HAVING A GRAND TIME.
That's the only reason she could ever come up with for no guy ever wanting to be her boyfriend.
Riiko confesses to the popular guy she's crushing on, Ishizeki, and he turns her down in a way that seems like he (almost) knew beforehand that it was going to happen.
Riiko seems slightly disbelieving at first, but quickly changes her mind when she sees that the "Absolute Boyfriend" comes with a FREE trial period of 3 days.
Night (Naito) is everything that Riiko ever wanted in a boyfriend...and, so much more.
This volume starts off with Chapter 1: The Guardian Returns.I'll write more when my editing mode hits.Happy Readings!Fly my Pretties! Fly!
Mika is such a *insert stream of curses here*
So in order to pay off her debt the doll Night is given a ring to study people's emotions.I kept reading this manga series and I'm sitting here thinking that it isn't bad, I will admit that this is very creative.
While Riko realizes that he is just a doll and she placed qualities she wanted in a boyfriend inside him, she can't help herself when she falls in love with him because he is nice to her and treats her unlike any other guys who keep rejecting her.
What's interesting is that the romance between Riko and Night doesn't last because in the end Night dies.
To her surprise, this is no joke, and a giant box addressed to her shows up the next day, a naked man toppling out calling her "girlfriend." Now it's a matter of who will Riiko choose?
Night, the gorgeous, devoted, talented mystery man, or Soshi, her long-time friend who's always looked out for her?Absolute Boyfriend has impressed me for being what it was.
While it's definitely not the smoothest manga, the story and characters are compelling enough to leave a lasting impression.
The artwork is also beautifully done with lots of attention to detail and focusing mainly on beautiful men.I will definitely continue to purchase this manga.
I avoided this series at first, because I'm not a fan of Yuu Watase. I got it off Manga Takeout because I found out there's going to be a new drama based on it starring Hiro Mizushima. XDI really loved it! I wasn't expecting it to be as good as it was. If you were turned off by Fushigi Yugi, you should still give this a shot. (At least, that's what I say after reading vol. 1. Hopefully future volumes are still this good!)
I don't read a lot of manga but when I do, it's by Yuu Watase.This is probably one of my favorite mangas ever! It's so funny and also captures what some people DREAM about! (Who doesn't want the perfect boyfriend/girlfriend?) I reread this book about 3-5 times a year because for one, it's a quick read, and two, because I fricking love this book. THIS WILL FOREVER BE ON MY BOOKSHELF
If you want a love story that is heart breaking, funny, unique and memorable. Read this!
I finished it in a day. It was cute and funny. Riiko is funny and both Night and Soushi are sweet! I like them both even though Night is a robot and is cool!
Was expecting for a tragic ending.
Decided to pick this up and reread it. Super funny and cute.
Naked manga boys....Yummi :D But being serious, this is soooo funny and cute :)
Good at cooking, sports, academics.He loved Riiko SO much.
He loved Riiko and getting naked.
She still loves Night though, even though he's dead.
I felt sad when he was leaving for Spain but then he came back because Night asked him to take care of Riiko.
T.TThere were many events in the story that made me laugh because they were so darn funny; like all those times when Night gets naked.
There were many events that made me sad; like when Night died T.T .
<3"; like all those times when Night said I love you to Riiko.
When you want a boyfriend none are around, that is just how Riiko feels.
What can go wrong right?
Riiko receives the extravagant Night, a hot and sexy man that only wants to please her.Seriously this is one of the best manga I have ever read!
There is an interesting love triangle that also develops, I had a hard time choosing which guy I would end up picking, you will have to see for yourself.Riiko is just a doll!
Night is really cute when he starts becoming overprotective of Riiko.I really wish they would make it into an anime!!!
I'm still not one hundred percent sold on the cover art, considering all the talk about the representation of women in comics I can appreciate the bizarre flipping of roles it feels slightly hypocritical to say anything less.
That said, it was certainly an interesting think piece considering how rare it is (from a western perspective anyway) to see such a submissive and dedicated man.
And I do think it is ultimately pretty successful at what it is trying to do.
I found it pretty funny and I do believe I will be picking up the second volume soon.So, overall, a very high two star.
Während scheinbar alle um sie herum sich verlieben und nur noch im Doppelpack auftauchen, hat Riko einen Crush auf einen Jungen, der nichts von ihr wissen will.
also bestellt sie ihn zur Probe ;-).Dieser perfekte Junge muss sich zwar erst daran gewöhnen, dass Riko ihn nicht als Sexpuppe benutzen will und seine Bemühungen schießen manchmal etwas über das Ziel hinaus, aber schon bald erkennt Riko, dass es verdammt schwer werden wird, ihn nach 72 Stunden wieder zurück zu schicken.Ich hatte keine allzu großen Erwartungen, aber die Geschichte und der Humor haben mich dann doch richtig überzeugt.
This was sure something, hilarious as hell, fluffy as stuffed pandas and unicorns, swoon worthy love interests like you can't imagine, sci-fi combined with love and humor in one manga.Seriously awesome manga read.
Yup, addicting stuff we got in here.Note: For all of you who want to read this, yes, there is nudity, but they don't show any actual parts, just skin, lots of skin and underwear.
But anyways, if you decide to pick it and read it and you aren't too shy or I don't know something to read, then you won't regret it.Addicting stuff we got in here, handle with care.Camila out.
3.5 stars.Initially I had a little trouble getting into the story but the more I read, the more I liked it.
The storyline was a little crazy but I've grown to like Night.
Her "friend" of all people!It has definitely made me intrigued enough to carry on the series.
It's only in 6 parts so I wouldn't think it would take me too long to finish it.
BUT I have a few other things on the go right now, so I may wait until I've finished those to carry on with it.
Didn't think I would enjoy this nearly as much as I did. I thought this manga would be very generic and the premise sounded silly, but I found the characters to be really entertaining. This isn't something revolutionary, but there are enough hijinks (I especially liked the frequent appearances of the our friendly salesman!) and cute boys to make requesting additional volumes for some light weekend reading worthwhile.
Riika has been turned down too many times...and wishes for the ideal boyfriend. Enter a stranger with an offer - that she can have just what she wants, only he won't quite be human.Humorous, at times touching and even sad, this series is a whole lot of fun. But then anything by Yuu Watase is bound to be fun!
I've been a Yuu Watase fan for a long time now. I like the way she incorporates humor to lighten the plot when the mood gets too heavy. The art tends towards a realistic style, especially in facial expressions and clothing, which I appreciate. This is a solid romance, with a girl who's not sure of her own feelings yet!
Ok do let me tell u this manga stuff takes me 30 minutes to read. So I am a YouTube sims fan and watch sim series on YouTube and there was one based of this series called perfect boyfriend by bluewhitecherry! So I was in the library returning things and stumbled upon this book! And I love it so! Thought the robot in this one takes it's clothes off more and is a little more human.
