https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/904212.Self_Directed_Behavior
You know that wave of smug that hits you when you try to read Da Vinci Code?
Have you ever read a book that constantly references how awesome it is, and even says "if you use these techniques and it doesn't work, its not because the techniques are wrong, its because you did it wrong"?
One quote said "For example, if you know the new you will make your spouse uncomfortable, you can make the changes gradually...
And that attractive skinny people lurk within3.
It says in the description that it uses real "case studies" of other students as examples.

This was an effective book for teaching methods of developing and modifying behaviors.
This was a required reading in my college course and we were required to implement its techniques through our daily lives.
Granted, the choice of implementation was up to each student, so I elected to modify behavior in exercise.
By using all of the steps provided in this book, I was able to avoid tendencies that lead to me failing in reaching my goal and substantially increased my exercises per-week.
I continue to implement certain techniques and I would recommend it to others seeking to alter their behaviors.
Wow- what a useless book. If you can get by this guys's ego and bloviating, you might get the occasional insight on how to be introspective. However, a nice dinner with a friend talking about goals and personal improvement will do more for this than this ever will- WASTE OF MONEY. (Can you give a book negative stars?)
Here are the table of contents: www.ecampus.com/selfdirected-behavior...I was really lucky to come across this book at my college's library. I've found it's easier to use after I condensed it on my computer and then just filled my responses to each chapter that way (though of course using other offline techniques and self-recording).
I wish I had learned these skills starting in kindergarten!This is a text book for a college course, probably for behavioral psychology students.
Over the course of the semester, the student learns how to design, assess and modify a program for changing habits.
Replacing unhelpful habits with helpful ones is presented as a set of skills that can be learned and strengthened, rather than some innate level of willpower.The method is grounded in the Antecedent-Behavior-Consequence (ABC) model that has proved very effective for designing behavior-change programs.
This book is a literal lifesaver!
I don't know how many self-help books that I've read, that didn't help and how many I own, that this one book could replace.A lot of the reviews I saw were complaining about the author talking about how amazing the book is and techniques contained within are, well 1)the book is amazing.
2) There is a lot of scientific studies and cases listed.
Nearly every statement made in the book is backed by a study or some type of proof and the sources are given.

Although this is a text book, it has an enjoyable reading feel to it.Fantastic resource for learning how to change bad habits or make good habits even better.I refer to this book for my classes on a regular basis and always pull something 'more' out of it with each read.
Great things are taught in this book. That being said I had to read this for an online class towards my masters plus 45. While I'd love to act as though I'm a great big intellectual, I'm so not. This was terribly painful to get through.
there is a swan in the river
The most thorough book on how to change personal habits/behaviors I've ever encountered.
Guided Mastery: You can never begin too low; the steps upward can be never too smallGoal challenging enough, but probability of successOvercoming obstacles: Keep records. Use guided masterySet intermediate goal with moderate specificityCommitment is not something you have, it is something you do.What steps you can take to make sure you don't quit?How to get back one's you slip back into old unwanted behaviour?What is the extent of the problem & its extent nature?
The only book of it's kind that I know of. It's like a manual for self-management, as an ABA concept. This has kind of been a dream book of mine for about a year before I found it. I'm really glad it exists.
It's a self-help book with research. Some of the research might be dated, but the authors give references for where you can find out more information. This is an excellent book to help individuals or groups put together a plan for change, whether that's to stop smoking, or to be more assertive. I highly recommend for anyone who is serious about growing and maturing.
Read this for a class about behavioral theories for my Graduate degree. Great book with many many ideas, tips, and ways to influence and help behavioral changes for addictions, habits, or just adding changes to one's life. Change is extremely difficult for most of us!
wtrtwrt
very dated
