https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89731.Kira_Kira
As Lynn's kira-kira diminishes, the reader is left with a heavy heart for Katie and her family.Kira-kira is a beautiful story about spirit and strength.
The story takes place over years, and the characters develop and change in obvious and subtle ways, just like children do in real life.
Katie is not a magnificent, larger-than-life character in the way, say, Harry Potter is.
Even though life deals her some difficult cards, Katie is always guided by the love of her family.
THIS IS THE ABSOLUTE AWESOMEST BOOK IN THE HISTORY OF AWESOME BOOKS. I cried at the end. I reccomend it to you and everyone you know. I read it like 10 times and so should you. It's about a Japanese girl and her family living in the U.S. in that descrimination era.
Katie and her family, including big sister Lynn and little brother Sammy, live in a small town in Georgia during a time when looking different means low-paying jobs and unaffordable housing.
Katie's parents eventually end up working multiple factory jobs to support the family, and the situation worsens when Lynn becomes mysteriously ill.
I know that they will laugh out loud at times when they read about the crazy predicaments that Katie manages to get herself into, but they might also cry when they find out what happens to this amazing family.
Cynthia Kadohata elaborated on so many themes from the personal connection of being Japanese in America to the universal themes of family, death and dying, and living in the complex world.
The way Kadohata unfolded the story of Katie getting mad at her sister, being impatient, thinking that her sister would get better, interacting with her parents, and worrying about her sister's friends showed a respect for and understanding for a child's thoughts and questions.
I thought the way she let Katie change, grow up, understand from her reflections on her relationship with her sister that she could do well in school if she worked at it.

I found this insufferably cliche and childish.
Much of this book was predictable: young protagonist, struggles come to family, family begins to falter, and tragedy must be overcome at end.
It is told from Katie's point of view, who is about 4 or 5 years younger than Lynn.
As this is the age difference between me and my sister, I instantly knew what it was like to look up to this seemingly perfect sister and idolize her.
How the older sister made even the simplest things amazing and wonderful.
I woke up crying, knowing how much it would hurt me if I ever lost my wonderful older sister.
This book is similar to A Long Walk to Water in many ways.
First of all, it is almost exactly like A Long Walk to Water when Salva had to take leadership and lead the boys to Ethiopia.
In Kira-Kira, a girl named Katie's family is breaking up because her sister died, and she has to take leadership and stop her family from breaking apart.
Another part that is the same as A Long Walk to Water is when Salva finds his new family and is flexible with every change that gets into her life.
So is Katie when she moved to America from Japan and when her sister died.
Kira-Kira is the story of the Japanese-American Takeshima family, told from the point of view of Katie, the youngest daughter.
We learn in the opening passage of the story that Kira-Kira means “glittering” in Japanese, and that it was Katie’s first word, taught to her by her older sister Lynn.
It’s obvious from the beginning that Katie adores Lynn.Born in Iowa to Japanese immigrants, Katie and Lynn have a nice childhood, but everything changes when the family’s Asian food store goes out of business, and they move to Georgia to become factory workers in a poultry processing plant.
Any young child who regularly heard people use this expression correctly and who would pick up the accent as Katie is supposed to have done would also use the expression correctly.There is nothing poetic or vivid about the prose here.
This is the weakest of the 33 Newbery winners I've read so far.
Good for bibliotherapy when dealing with grieving girls who might identify with Katie...but not much else.I was at the awards ceremony when this won and I searched bookstores on the way home for a copy hoping to read it before everyone else (it was a surprise winner); I'm glad I didn't waste my money on it.
I grew up in California but I think the racism that was experienced in the book was what my parent generation had to deal with in the South.
That's one downside of audio books, if you get it wrong, it is difficult to listen to.
I once rented out a book by Gail Tsukiyama (the one with the red and white cover with an image of cherry blossoms).
This book was a beautifully written, thanks Julie for writing a review of it.
Đầu năm đầu tháng mà khóc vì truyện...Nhưng không sao, đây không phải là một câu chuyện quá bi kịch. Nó buồn, nhưng nhẹ nhàng, tươi sáng và lấp lánh.Katie hồn nhiên, vui tính dễ sợ, đọc mà nhiều lúc cứ phụt cười. Tình chị em của Lynn với Katie và Sam thiệt đáng quý.
چهقدر خواهر ِبزرگتر نعمت خوبیه... چهقدر آخه:)
چه‌قدر خواهر ِبزرگ‌تر نعمت خوبی‌ه... چه‌قدر آخه:)
Menghadapi prasangka dari sebagian masyarakat, menghadapi tatapan aneh dari orang-orang yang berpapasan dengan mereka di jalan, serta perlakuan yang kurang manusiawi terhadap buruh pabrik, profesi yang dijalani orangtua Katie.Beruntung ada Lynn, kakak Katie, yang selalu menjadikan hidup “bersinar” (kira-kira, dalam bahasa Jepang, alias glittering atau shining dalam bahasa Inggris).
Sebagian besar kisah yang ada di novel ini merupakan kejadian nyata, begitu juga hubungan yang ada, khususnya hubungan antara Katie dan Lynn.review dari deeyand.multiply.comI say : Saya agak kurang sreg dengan cover bukunya.
I had started this middle school, Newbury award winning little book earlier in the week in between cramming, and decided the morning of the exam that the best way to chill and prepare was to lie back and finish the back half of the book.
Kadohata does an amazing job not only of evoking what it feels like to be a kid bewildered by family, world, school, and simply how to be, but especially excels at describing the alienated world of growing up in the south as a Japanese American.
Oh, and by the way, I passed that dang exam.
Kira-Kira was a very heartfelt book, it took awhile for me to finish reading the book because I was reading few other books at the same time. The word Kira Kira has a very deep meaning, you will figure it out as you read the book. A short summary of the book is when Katie and her family move from a Japanese community in Iowa to the Deep South of Georgia, Lynn, her sister, explains to Katie why people stop on the street to stare at them. Hope you guys all read this book. It's amazing.
Here are some of the things I thought about when reading this book:1.
I think my sister worshiped me too as a kid (I'm convinced she still does, but don't tell her I said that), although I may not be as perfect and protective and full of guidance as Lynn is.
Another reason I was interested in this book is because of the original meaning of 'kira-kira' in Japanese, which is 'glittering'.
In the book Lynn used 'kira-kira' to describe the sky, the sea, and people's eyes.
4. I read the book and enjoyed it.
Right after that I read another children's book, A Little Princess.
Nhưng sau này, một biến cố lớn đem Lynn đi xa khỏi gia đình Takeshima, khiến cho Katie dù muốn hay không cũng phải trưởng thành, cần phải lớn lên, để cùng cậu em Sammy yêu thương chăm sóc ba mẹ thay cả phần của Lynn nữa.
Sau đó, tuy hai chị em bị phạt vì đã phung phí khăn giấy, nhưng trong tâm hồn hai đứa trẻ, cũng thật xứng đáng để được ngắm nhìn cảnh tượng mê li trên cánh đồng này.
Nửa đầu cuốn sách thật sự không mấy cuốn hút (như mong đợi), cơ bản vẫn miêu tả hơi nhiều (hơi dài dòng) về bối cảnh cuộc sống của gia đình người Nhật trên đất Mỹ (sau nội chiến), vẫn là tình bạn, tình chị em bình dị nhẹ nhàng, cùng với đó là sự xa lánh và kì thị chủng tộc.Nhưng xuyên suốt câu chuyện là cảm nhận về sự tinh tế, chân thành trong tình cảm ấy, của sự mong ước về một cuộc sống tốt đẹp hơn.
This was a great book, portraying the theme of antiracism.
The author it so poetic, but in a realistic kind of way, the way that makes writing sound beautiful.
I am not usually the kind of person who likes Newberry books, so when my friend Lauren forced this book into my hand, I put it back on the shelf.
What was I thinking!
They say that a good author can make you feel anything, and as I read the life story of a little girl Katie in this story, I laughed, and definitely cried.
This is probably my favorite book ever.
خیلی خوب بود. خیلی خیلی هم خوب، هم غم انگیز.ولی از این داستانای ناراحت کننده ای که خوشت هم میاد از ناراحتیش، نه از اونایی که زجرت میدن(مثل روزینیا
While Katie is trying to keep things together at home, her parents are dealing with demanding bosses and the pressure to join the brand new workers’ union.“Some days I think she was really miserable, because she cried a lot.
You need to steel yourself to a lot of things when someone in your family is really sick.” – Kira-KiraThe Bad: The beginning is slow and meandering.
The story mostly follows Katie through her daily life.
I’ve seen it a lot in children’s books.The Bottom Line: As an adult reader, I can appreciate the struggles of Katie and her parents.
Maybe I love it right now more that I would at another time, but that does not change the fact that it has changed me.Obviously, my favorite thing about this book was the relationship between Katie and her sister, Lynn.
I loved the childhood memories and the way Katie fondly recalled Lynn.
I have a sister four years older that me, and I felt like I was reading a story so similar to ours.
:(One thing I really loved about this book was Katie's voice.
She wasn't smart, and so the writing might seem annoying to some, but I thought it was clear and beautiful.
It was beautiful.
The main characters of Kira-Kira are Katie and Lynn.
This book is about a little girl named Katie who moves to Georgia from Iowa with her family.
Katie and her older sister were very close but when they moved to Georgia everything changed.
Lynn changes when she meets a new friend and forgets about Katie.
Katie remembers Lynn's "kira-kira"(which means glittery in Japanese)the most.
My overall impression of this book is that it has a good theme to it.
I liked this book because it tells you to find the glitter in the simple things.
Katie Takeshima's first word is "kira-kira," the Japanese term for "glittering." Her older sister, Lynn, is extremely intelligent and taught her this word.
Katie and her family move south to Georgia, where there are less than fifty Japanese Americans alongside them.
Unfortunately, Lynn becomes ill with a devastating disease and Katie is forced to care for her while their parents are at work.
Katie eventually feels angry when she cannot satisfy her sister's demands, but would do anything to try to please her.
This story shows how Lynn's "kira-kira" outlook on life rubs off on Katie, their brother, and their family.
While not a bad book, by any means, I didn't feel that this story every struck any particularly strong chords or said anyting in a new and creative way.
It also seemed too obvious that the parents were likely to vote for the union despite their talk against it.The only thing that made this story slightly unique was that it was a Japanese family working in the Midwest and deep South.
Otherwise, I didn't feel there were any fresh angles for this kind of story.A disappointing choice for medal winner, and not likely a book that I will go about recommending.
Beware of spoilers!Even though I thought this book was "ok", I still don't want to give it two stars because it just looks bad when you look at it overall.I knew Lynn was going to die.
I think the author meant for that to happen anyway.
There was really nothing to this story, though.
I mean, two sisters love each other, think they're perfect, etc.
Then they get a baby brother.
Then one of them gets cancer.
Then one of them dies.
The end.I mean, I wish there was more to this book.
More depth and character development.
Thích truyện này kinh khủnggggg, mà giờ có lẽ hỏi thích vì lý do gì chắc cũng không rõ nữa.Có phải vì một hồi đơ đơ, đọc vài cuốn sách, chữ cứ lơ lửng bay qua không biết rõ cảm xúc của mình như thế nào, đến khi đọc Kira Kira mới giật mình như tỉnh giấc?
Kira Kira đến với mình như kiểu tình yêu sét đánh, ấn tượng mãi không quên.
Hay giống như tìm được một phần bé nhỏ của mình trong đó (nhiều chuyện xấu giống em nhỏ :P), và thấy cuộc sống cứ lấp lánh lấp lánh mãi dẫu cho chúng ta hàng ngày vẫn gặp phải những chuyện không vui, thậm chí là chia ly với những người thân thiết.
Sometimes, I think middle-grade books prepare people for the real world in a quiet way - equal parts gritty reality & comfort in hope. I didn't realise this story would also explore grief in a visceral way (view spoiler)[ It's always hard for me to read funeral scenes and scenes around loved ones with long-term illnesses because they bring back memories (hide spoiler)] but I would recommend this to all kids. I can see why so many of my friends loved this book when they were younger. The story also later touches on Buddhist beliefs around the afterlife.
I kinda thought Sammy was going to die too, but he pulled through after having his leg caught in a steel trap.I get that some people get annoyed at all the sentimental dog, girl, best-friend, girl-friend, best-dog-girlfriend end-of-the-book deaths there are out there.
I get annoyed by it sometimes too, but for me the death was the best part about the book.
And it wasn't a jump the shark, coming out of nowhere death either.My problem with the book was that I didn't really care that much about the rest of it.
