https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6280118-one-day
It gives the reader snapshots of Dex and Em’s life, like flipping through a stack of polaroids, just a flash of what was going on at a particular time.
Dex and Em quickly became real in my mind, as if I was peeking into the lives of a couple of friends, or reading their journal pages.
I found myself feeling like I was reading bits and pieces of my own story.
That, for me, is the mark of a wonderful novel, reading that reaches into your soul and touches your heart, writing that moves you to feel.
THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS!!!(I just copied this from my blog...and, didn't realize until it was pointed out to me (below) that I didn't copy the whole thing sorry!)Please be warned this blog post contains SPOILERS for the following books: One Day, Message in a Bottle, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, The Lord of the Rings, The Way We Were, A Walk to Remember, Atonement, Bridges of Madison County, The Time Travelers Wife, The English PatientThis is the first book that is so beautiful that I want to quote it and keep it with me, and, yet I hate it...I mean seriously hate it!
Granted, I am never opposed to taking a good dose of drama, but melodrama I detest.This story is about a man and a woman who one day come together as lovers, then break up, but stay connected.
Their relationship is followed through the next 20 years by presenting just one day - July 15th - out of their lives.
Both Dexter and Emma are not likable enough for me to care to see how their relationship unfolds.
I dislike watching Dexter waste his life on partying and hooking up and Emma - on pining over him for years.
David Nicholls crafts a beautiful love story about two people who are so different that they really only have one thing in common: they are both mad for each other.
The frustrating thing is though, that however much these two people love each other, they maintain a "friends only" status throughout most of the book.
What starts out as a possible love affair after just graduating college, Emma and Dexter's chemistry and attraction falls through the cracks as the years pass.
Distance, missed opportunities, and even a letter that never gets sent, are all obstacles that ultimately determine their romantic fate and and life that they may have led together when they were young.
Then we face adult life and responsibilities, disappointment, and all the disillusionment that eventually knocks our doors.At the heart of the story are Emma and Dexter, two young people who start out long-time friends and one-night lovers and go on becoming so much more over the course of 20 years.
On this day, Emma and Dexter sometimes come together, sometimes they don't.Emma is an extremely interesting character.
(view spoiler)[The incident that makes the book a true success is one of the most heart-wrenching moments, described in a single sentence at the very end of one of the last chapters.
Every moment with this book felt like a waste of my time.
I've seen it all before: the ugly duckling pining after the rich asshole who could be transformed into a better man if he only realized that the right woman was right there in front of him.
This plot is so well trod that I feel like there are hundreds of better examples of it that I could have been reading.
And as to the ending, can I just say that I didn't like it the first time it happened in City of Angles, and I still didn't like it when Nicholls ripped it off.
This book lost me for good because it contains a death that felt exactly like the hand of God reaching down: Oh, thought the writer-god, I don't really know how to end this but I know that an element of tragedy will make this novel seem super deep.
However, there are definite and bizarre similarities: both books are about a friendship between a man and a woman over a long stretch of time, beginning in the ’80s; both are about struggling to strike a balance between financial solvency and artistic integrity; both star a character named Em (really, it's eerie); and both feature a tragic bicycle accident.
Why do these two like each other, exactly?
And because I’m the same age as Dexter and Emma the time frame here was also totally relatable (see nostalgia) with little details I had forgotten about from the past two decades.Equal parts heartbreaking and hilarious yet also suspenseful as each chapter takes place a year to the day after the last one so you have to figure out what’s happened in that time between.
Starting as lovers Dexter and Emma continue as friends and the book joins them on July 15th of each year (St Swithin’s day) through their 20’s and 30’s and into their 40’s.

3,7/5 stars for me...If I get to tell you my feelings about this book in one single word, it would be "FINALLY!"To be honest, having watched the movie, this book did not surprise me at all and all I can say about this one is how true to life and down-to-earth it is.
)Overall, I would recommend this to people who would love to spare quite some of their times for such a novel, and WARNING: Do not watch the movie before you read it, totally ruins the hype!!
È tutto un dare indicazioni: indicazioni per il futuro regista (ché tanto tutti i suoi libri finiscono sullo schermo, è evidente l’intento - qui per esempio, c’è Anne ‘Smorfietta’ Hathaway all’opera nella parte di Emma), indicazioni per gli attori, per il casting…E anche indicazioni per il lettore, che invece, nel mio caso, vorrebbe essere libero di interpretare a sua scelta – ma non può, perché è tutto smaccato e sottolineato.
Ho provato a lungo a immaginare come Anne Hathaway ci mostrerà un brivido rassicurante di repulsione nei confronti di Dexter (Jim Sturgess) e probabilmente è l’unica cosa di questo romanzo che mi resterà da scoprire (perché, il film io certo non lo vedrò).
This book is completely overhyped.
It is so dull.
In my opinion, dull is the perfect adjective to describe 'One Day'.
The book was well written and the premise was fantastic but it just didn't work for me - the whole thing just felt so drawn out and I didn't feel much for either Emma or Dexter - especially Dexter.
After ploughing through most of the book and to be given that ending didn't make me sad, just quite infuriated.
I thought that the imperfect ending was the right way for the book to go, but not in this way.
Emma is bad-tempered and critical– she snaps and complains about people, yet she secretly seems to admire Dexter for the things she can’t stand about him: spontaneity and bravery.
I’m supposed to be watching their friendship slowly turn into something more, but the trouble is that I cannot even understand why they’re friends to begin with.
How insightful can those thoughts really be if the two supposed friends bicker and criticize one another more than anything?To make matters worse, the end does not give anything to satisfy my unanswered questions and confusion about the relationship of Dexter and Emma.
I love, love, love this book! I loved it so much that when I finished it.This was such a wonderful book, funny and meaningful and smart and emotional. A character-driven story about two people, Emma and Dexter, it focuses on their lives and relationship over a span of twenty years. The format was really original - each chapter taking place on July 15th of a particular year - and I thought that worked really well and set the story apart from other contemporary romances.
One Day is what life reads like.*Spoilers Ahead*I’m sure you all know the premise, if not, watch the movie trailer, it will spell it out quite clearly.
And I’m certain most of us struggle with when to settle for our lot, and content ourselves with our fortune and when to press on and reach for our dreams, hopes and wants.In seeing the disasters that are Emma and Dex, I was reminded that the beauty in life is best shown by living it.
One Day was a touching book, filled with relevant detail and rather lovely, readable writing.
One Day isn't a book with many gray areas...readers will absolutely love the story or they will hate it.
In fact, Anne Hathaway loved the book so much, she flew to London to convince the director why she was perfect to play the part of Emma.The story centers on the lives of two people, Emma Morley & Dexter Mayhew, who meet the night of their college graduation on July 15, 1988.
Little do they know, this "off-the-cuff" friendship they've settled for will cultivate and grow - encompassing Dex, Em and all of the book's readers.
I know it is hard to imagine but this is a book about two people who are basically depressed constantly, okay I lie once Emma is happy and maybe twice Dexter is happy in a course of 20 years, and it is never super happy, just eh okay happy.
This doesn't mean that they don't love each other enough or that there is something wrong with them, it simply means that circumstances are simply unable to create a world in which people like Emma and Dexter end up together.
Read a book with a number in the title.This is by far the easiest 5 stars I've given out this year.(forget the fact that it is only the second 5 stars I've given out this year.)(also forget the fact that I'm writing this review the day before I finish Dark Matter which will most likely be its biggest contender)And btw, fuck this book. Maybe it's just bad timing for whatever, but I think you should head of to China or India or wherever and find yourself, and I'll get on quite happily with things
About halfway though, Emma realizes that their relationship has become something poisonous and wrong and she makes the decision to walk away from her best friend.
And we still haven't reconciled (even Dex and Emma were separated for several years in the book--only thoughts and memories survived between the two in those lost years).
Alcoholism, parenthood, dissolution of romantic relationships, finding an identity apart from your best friend, working your way through this thing we call life and trying to figure it out in equal parts together and apart.
So where will they be on this one day next year?
Twenty years, two people, ONE DAY"One Day I was standing at a train station confronted by a huge orange poster much like the front cover of a book I had bought a year earlier but hadn’t read.
I felt connected to every character in the book in some way simply because I knew someone exactly like them which made it so enjoyable to read.
It’s one of those books you can read over and over again and never tire of it.
it plays an important role in my reviewing of this book because I could be biased or maybe even, like, wrong.
At least that's what I get out of it via Dexter's description, who is kind of dumb and cute and likes to fornicate alot.
Yeah, they say that Emma is pretty in the book and all that but you're led to believe that she's more frumpy and is pining after cute Dex and all that.
I mean, I guess they try to make him have a soul and all that, but he's a drunk who likes pretty girls and worries about what people think of him.
I decided to read this book after having read extremely positive reviews in the British press, and upon finding out that a movie based on the book will be released imminently.
About 100 pages in, I was already hating it, and now, finally finishing it, I am convinced those raving reviews must have been written by people who hardly ever read books.
I don't want to spoil the plot for those who still intend to read the book, but I am compelled to advise you to brace yourself for a cop-out.
A beautiful and unconventional love story. I loved Emma. I thought she was funny, intelligent, feisty, and down-to-earth. Took me a while to warm up to Dexter, (he's not a nice guy at first) but when he grew-up emotionally, I found him charming and extremely loyal. This book will make you laugh, cry, and believe that true love is possible. Enjoy! :)
I thought the premise of this book was brilliant.
Following two friends, a boy and girl, who had a romantic encounter of sorts on their final graduation day, and seeing a glimpse into their lives every year on the same day after.I loved the detailed pop culture references, that maybe you can only truly appreciate had you grown up in London, and that made me yearn for my home town more than usual.That is where my like for this book ended.
Crazy stupid love and the difficulty of growing up aren't the most challenging topics ever put to paper, and the speed at which this story was turned into a screenplay at least whispers "standard fare." But it's no surprise the film did badly because Emma and Dexter are NOT just two cuties who riff until it's time for the Cinderella ending.
As Roger Ebert has pointed out, every love story ends in death, and unlike so many pop culture storytellers, Nicholls is brave to let us see how Dexter struggles with that, skipping the melodramatic moment of discovery and going straight to the hell of healing.Whether or not it's Literature, I am pleased as hell when there are books like this in the world.
One Day, David NichollsEach chapter covers the lives of two protagonists on 15 July, St. Swithin's Day, for twenty years.عنوان فیلم: یک روز؛ کارگردان: لون اسچرفینگ؛ تهیه کننده: نینا ژاکوبسن؛ نویسنده: دیوید نیکولز؛ بازیگران: جیم استرجس؛ آن هاتاوی؛ موسیقی: ریچل پورتمن؛ تدوین: بارنی پیلینگ؛ تاریخهای انتشار: 19 آگوسست 2011؛ مدت زمان: 108 دقیقه؛ کشور: انگلستان؛ زبان: انگلیسی؛ هزینه فیلم 15000000 دلارپانزدهم ژوئیه سال 1988 میلادی چند دانشجو پس از فارغ التحصیلی به لندن برگشته اند و پس از خداحافظی از هم
پانزهم ژوئیه سال 1990 میلادی «اما» در یک رستوران به عنوان گارسون کار و با همکار جدیدش ایان آشنا می‌شود.
پانزدهم ژوئیه سال 1991 میلادی دکس برای دیدن «اما» به رستورانی که «اما» در آنجا کار می‌کند می‌رود تا او را ببیند.
پانزدهم ژوئیه سال 1998 میلادی دکس شهرتش را از دست می‌دهد و مجری یک برنامه معرفی بازی‌های کامپیوتری می‌شود و از کار تلویزیون کناره گیری می‌کند.
پانزدهم ژوئیه سال 1999 میلادی دکس بخاطر تنهایی اش تصمیم برای ازدواج می‌گیرد و با سیلوی نامزد می‌شود.
پانزدهم ژوئیه سال 2003 میلادی دکس برای دیدن «اما» به پاریس می‌رود.
و ...؛ پانزدهم ژوئیه سال 2004 میلادی دکس با «اما» ازدواج می‌کند.
Ima nešto u britanskim piscima, što njihove knjige čini itekako realnim, gotovo i previše, a opet se trude da iz svake priče izvuku nešto magično i specijalno,ma koliko akteri iste bili emotivno ili fizički sjebani.
Uživala sam u večnom obigravanju Dekstera i Eme, koji kao da nikada ne mogu da pronađi pravi trenutak za romansu, dok se trude da skrpe i izgrade sopstvene karijere i živote.
Knjiga se dotiče tema klasnog raslojavanja, uticaja porodice u kojoj smo rođeni na povoljniji i povlašćeniji položaj u životu i društvu, nezaposlenost i neke opšte socijalne nepravde, tako aktuelne i danas.
I’ve read more books by Nicholas Sparks than I care to admit, I just keep hoping that they get better, they never do.
I’m always in search of a book that’ll put butterflies in my stomach and a smile on my face, so if you have any recommendations, please send them my way.
Dexter reminds me of our friend (if you can call him that) that we secretly refer to as Spencer Pratt.So no, this book didn’t give me butterflies in my stomach or a smile on my face, I was just annoyed.
Si potrebbe scrivere un’intera cartella sulla trama, io penso che sia più utile porsi l’inevitabile interrogativo: “Può esistere l’amicizia fra un uomo e una donna?” Coloro che sono interessati possono rovistare nel libro, gli altri infischiarsene beatamente e leggere ciò che fa maggiormente al caso loro.Il mio parere in materia lo lascio riassumere da un tale che scriveva niente male:Le donne possono essere amiche meravigliose.
Only the fact that I borrowed this book from Courtney kept me from throwing it against the wall...
