https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1098624.When_I_Say_No_I_Feel_Guilty
This book is certainly dated, but I can't recommend it enough for those who struggle with asserting themselves in various situations.
It offers incredibly helpful methods for coping with criticism, manipulation, and other relationship issues.
The "fogging" technique in Chapter 6 I've found most helpful out of all the techniques offered, for un-learning those knee-jerk reactions to other people's comments and for learning to listen calmly rather than reacting defensively.
If you can get past the somewhat dated scenarios and references in the book (written in 1970s), it's worth reading.
Classic assertiveness training manualTake a trip back to the 1970s, when leisure suits, long sideburns and “assertiveness training” were all the rage.
Smith was a pioneer in the life-changing assertiveness training movement.
Some of his advice still feels relevant, particularly when he urges you to beware of those who try to impose their standards of “right” and “wrong” to manipulate you.
Smith lists your 10 “assertive rights,” the most important being the right to be the ultimate judge of your own behavior.
Although some of his counsel may seem as dated as disco, getAbstract recommends his classic training manual to anyone who still feels guilty about saying “no!”
Excellent Book! Loved it and it really helped me.
After reading the preface and the "Bill of Assertive Rights" I thought that this book should have been subtitled - "How to be an obnoxious git and get away with it".
This is an amazing book, one of those that makes you wish you had read it earlier in life.
Smith is a champion for the downtrodden, the pushovers and the easily manipulated and this book is his blueprint to reclaim personal power.
The second half covers a large number of dialogues using the main techniques.
Overall, this is an excellent book on both assertiveness, communication skills and personal responsibility.
After these 100 pages, I used my assertive right of skimming to the end of the book.
a: agree with them as much as possible -- "fogging" -- by saying something like "you might be right"> do not deny, get defensive, or turn the criticism around onto them > "unserious" bc a) if you actually made a mistake, you should own it, b) if it's legal or cops or something, you obviously should say "let me talk to my lawyer" ;-) q: When you're giving a public talk, what is a "South of France" question?
While it has a bit of the usual padding that one finds in self-help books, even the padding serves the point of introducing the concepts of assertiveness.
First you get the theory of assertiveness, then you get extremely practical techniques for being assertive.I can't hold on to copies of this book because I keep giving it away to friends.
It's vintage 1975 self-help style and I think that's part of the charm; others may disagree.
I'm giving this book five stars based on its practical usefulness.
It's not new-agey self-help of the change your deep inner nature style.
اغلب اوقات، بعضيها با اين باور غير واقع بينانه که آدم سالم کسي است که مسالهاي ندارد، به اين نتيجه میرسند که ادامه ندادن اين طور زندگي، بهتر است. اغلب بيماراني که هنگام معالجه با روحيهشان آشنا میشوم، اين باور منفي را در خود پرورش دادهاند اما گناه مسئلهها و دشواريها نيست. گناه احساس خودمان است که خيال میکنيم نمیتوانيم از پس مسايل و مردمیکه مسئله ساز هستند برآييم. ارتباط کلامی و توانايي حل دشواريها تفاوت اصلي ميان بشريت و موجوداتي است که يا از بين رفتهاند يا نسل آنها در شرف انقراض و يا در نهايت تحت
اغلب اوقات، بعضي‏ها با اين باور غير واقع بينانه که آدم سالم کسي است که مساله‏اي ندارد، به اين نتيجه می‏‏رسند که ادامه ندادن اين طور زندگي، بهتر است.
اغلب بيماراني که هنگام معالجه با روحيه‏شان آشنا می‏‏شوم، اين باور منفي را در خود پرورش داده‏اند اما گناه مسئله‏ها و دشواري‏ها نيست.
گناه احساس خودمان است که خيال می‏‏کنيم نمی‏‏توانيم از پس مسايل و مردمی‏‏که مسئله ساز هستند برآييم.
در حالي که حيوانات در تنها سلاح‏شان براي تنازع بقا، جنگ يا گريز با انسان شريک هستند.
ما به لطف نياکان موفق‏ترمان براي ادامه حيات علاوه بر توانايي جنگ، گريز از نيروی تکلم بهره‏مند هستيم.
A surprising and highly lucid take on assertivity.
The author shows how all babies are born assertive, but that many of us unlearn this vital ability through upbringing and socialisation.
He shows the vast and numerous problems that this causes.
If you are among the many non-assertive people out there, it is essential to re-learn this ability and no longer feel guilty when you say "no".The book contains a lot of transcripts of assertive dialogues.
I found it a bit laborious to get through at times, but in fact it was a good thing, because it helped me to drill the assertive concepts into my brain again and again.
Being a language teacher myself and having ideas on how to learn a language best,and on top of that knowing myself and my learning strategies;I need just a little more assertiveness to let him know that it should be me telling him how I learn best and not him telling me!As I was looking at the date it was published I realized as an iranian growing up in Iran I had all sorts of people manupulating me and I just had no means or resouces to figure this out let alone fight with it.
When I Say No, I Feel Guilty is a clear, well written book about assertiveness training. My mom got this for me years ago and I carted it around with every intention of reading it. Having finally done so, I am really impressed with what Smith presents in these pages. He provides excellent descriptions of various aspects of assertiveness, explains how to adopt these methods and provides sample dialogues to show how to put these techniques into practice. Anyone facing difficulty in being assertive in personal or professional interaction will glean useful information from this book. Impressive.
I thought I knew all about assertiveness. Then I read this book. What a world this would be if everyone had the skills that this book leaves you with. The examples make this a particularly useful and entertaining read. The principles have stayed with me and made a difference in all kinds of interactions. If you had to pick only one self-help book, this classic would be tough to beat.
Into it! Reading it I felt more equipment to deal with situations where I want something but don't feel confident standing up for it. I'm still unsure of where the line comes between applying these techniques to be assertive and being an asshole though.
The book supported the father chastising his daughter for her being out despite the man's beliefs being largely irrational.Being assertive is generally good but asserting irrational beliefs is not good and you should be working on being more rational and then perhaps focus on assertiveness training.There was another example about a woman increasing her assertiveness to not be led into unwanted sexual encounters.
A few chapters later the example was a man being assertive to literally force his wife to go to a nudist colony which was clearly against her wishes.The book might be great for academic purposes and in some limited situations but in many real life examples, this will not help at all.
I think the author in some ways acts like this won't have any consequences though...which is frustrating.
I think if you are going to start saying no to things, you need to have a better way of helping others around you understand vs.
feeling like, it's not important for them to understand.
I think it is important to set boundaries and feel good about the boundaries you set.
I also don't agree with the author in a lot of the anti-religion teachings...like there are no ultimate morals, and everything is arbitrary.
None of the coping mechanisms which the author describes teach you how to say "no" or its variants any easier.
Instead, most of the coping mechanisms are variants on how to brush somebody off while looking like an ass in the process.
The only coping mechanism mentioned which has any lasting value in the real world is "self-disclosure," which is exactly what it sounds like.
And it's exactly these interactions where I (and i'm sure other people) need the most help.
If you were to apply the author's methods to your spouse, family and friends, you'd end up very lonely.
I'm only about halfway through this book, but it's already evoking some pretty strong feelings.
It's a good book, and important for someone like me who has a real problem with being easily manipulated, but some of the communication techniques outlined in here -- fogging (parrotting criticism back at the critic), broken record ("asserting" the same request over and over to the point of sounding autistic), etc.
-- are better suited for therapeutic role-playing sessions than everyday life.
Dr. Smith does give some good, practical advice about recognizing manipulation as it's happening, and also about assertive body language, verbiage, and eye contact.
Helpful explanations of negative assertion, negative inquiry, and broken record techniques to use when you are being manipulated. A lot of the example dialogues are repetitive and tiresome after reading a few. Some of the tactics feel like they're the basis of 'pickup artist' techniques in the sense that the person using the techniques should not take no for an answer to what they want... which, confusingly, also feels manipulative?
It's classic book but now it's very outdated. The principles are still solid but examples just reinforce some ways of nonproductive and manipulative communication. I won't recommend reading it if you don't have at least basic understanding of principles of assertiveness, listening, and emotional intelligence. Only if you do, you would be able to sift through the valuable information.
More broad scope than the title would suggest, this book teaches communication skills everyone needs to learn. Properly employed, these skills allow you to be polite in society while at the same time being up front about your own needs.
There were several of the author’s points that I didn’t agree with, and I started out really doubting this book altogether, but I actually ended up taking away some really good assertiveness skills from this book and I am super glad I read it.
The book contains dialogues which makes understanding even better.I personally found this book relatable and it didn’t take much time to finish as I am among the manynon-assertive people out there and this book was bound to keep me hold of it.
The best part of the book is that it is filled with gazillionsof examples which makes it more relatable; the foremost example of behaviour of babies as they areborn and change in their behaviours considering the social norms is presented smartly.So, I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who wants to learn the art of saying ‘No’.
It's no longer fashionable it seems, but boy is it vital for clear communication and the elimination of manipulation by non defensive means.I also learned lots about how routine manipulation by parents of their children's behaviour using the trio of guilt, anxiety or ignorance-inducing ploys creates the foundations of lack of self esteem and assertion in adulthood.
I feel I'm being a bit vague here so I will offer an example.Parents often control a child's behaviour by saying something to imply that there is a 'correct' way to think or behave, thereby creating a belief that there is an outside rule book that governs these things.
Awesome book! My number one take away: fogging! Definition of assertiveness:To assert is to state positively with great confidence but with no objective proof - websters dictionary “A BILL OF ASSERTIVE RIGHTS 1. I: You have the right to judge your own behavior, thoughts, and emotions, and to take the responsibility for their initiation and consequences upon yourself. 2. II: You have the right to offer no reasons or excuses for justifying your behavior. 3. III: You have the right to judge if you
I: You have the right to judge your own behavior, thoughts, and emotions, and to take the responsibility for their initiation and consequences upon yourself.
2. II: You have the right to offer no reasons or excuses for justifying your behavior.
3. III: You have the right to judge if you are responsible for finding solutions to other people’s problems.
5. V: You have the right to make mistakes—and be responsible for them.
6. VI: You have the right to say, “I don’t know.”	7.
9. IX: You have the right to say, “I don’t understand.”	10.
Finally, he gives us some ways of being more assertive, and these are FOGGING (absorb criticisms without defending yourself), NEGATIVE ASSERTION (say the negative thing about yourself or the situation), NEGATIVE INQUIRY (ask for more information related to something negative about yourself or the situation), SELF DISCLOSURE (give a bit of information about yourself), BROKEN RECORD (keep repeating what you want) and WORKABLE COMPROMISE (give an alternative solution).I don’t have a problem with assertiveness the way some of his patients in the book seemed to have, but I still found it useful to keep those simple techniques in mind.
Nežinau, ką leidėjai turėtų daryti, kad nesudarytų klaidingo įspūdžio, bet šįkart tai visai rimta, ir kartu labai praktinė knyga, netgi sugebėjusi sukelti mini revoliuciją mano mąstyme.
Tiesiog man ši knyga buvo labai reikalinga ir naudinga.Be to, ji puikiai atliepia prieš tai skaitytai Vaikai kilę iš dangaus – kadangi man rūpi ne tik atsikratyti kaltės jausmo savyje, bet ir tinkamai auklėti vaikus, kad jiems neįskiepyčiau tos suknistos kaltės, ši knyga puikiai padeda tiek atsikratyti manipuliacinių gudrybių kasdieniniame gyvenime, tiek moko, kaip bendrauti, kad skatintume artimuosius taip pat bendrauti su mumis be manipuliacijų.
Labai patiko!
Best book thus far on the topic of being assertive...I really love it when an author has found a universal framework that just works in all situations.
The universality of assertiveness simply works with humans *PERIOD*!
I like how the book starts by telling how you have the right to say no, to be wrong and not obliged to answer all questions.One point that was a complete eye opener was how common manipulation is.
Our parents, friends and even our loved ones all go down the road of manipulation.
So using such assertive techniques really do break peoples efforts to twist things and get their way.
Welp.
Another book for the 'reread every year' category (note to self: make a 'reread every year' category).You have the right to be your own judge.
Easy to say, not to easy to grok.
When you truly believe you are your own judge, you don't feel the need to be defensive or justify your actions.
Apparently.
I have a lot of work to do before I get there.When you give up the need to be perfect, you can agree with the criticism of others.
The benefit of this is that it quickly takes the fight out of them.
Aggressive condescending macho style. Probably because it's outdated (though still continues through people like Jordan Peterson nowadays). There are good insights but there are also some dangerous bull, a pain to read. Not a kind of a book that makes you feel understood, comforted and enriched. As someone who is planning to be a psychologist some day, this type of relating to clients is a huge no-no for me. When you encounter such a psychologist, run.
This book has a good core, underlying message that is mostly lost in a very thick almost unreadable content. The dialogue portions were much easier to read. I did learn some good things to try if/when I get in a place I have to defend my own stance. As far as the rest, very sluggish and felt like it was written by someone who found the subject as boring as I do.
It's ever so slightly dated, but a godsend for, well, I suspect more people than they'd be willing to admit. The problems and their techniques in this book are pretty ageless, actually. I think it would be a nice book to consider for just about anyone.
