https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43339.Where_Are_the_Children_
Consider, that even popular thriller writers, say, like David Baldacci, often throw in a difficult word or two.
It was a delectable experience to read Where are the Children.The plot of the books is like many of its kind, but what I want to underline is that the book has aged well.
There are so many thrillers saturating the market that I feel I need to try and make you read this one, just in case you overlook it.It's one of the best books by the author, and I will go back for more, especially if it is of the same.
You might say I liked the book.
If you look at this book in the context of its time, it's actually sort of shocking. The plot is really tightly wrought and the characters are strong and likable in a way that seems natural today, but was very bold back in the day.I see Mary a lot at crime writing functions and she is always the best dressed, most glamorous author in the room. (Granted, this is not a high bar, but still)
(I think that may have been a carryover from my elementary-aged love of Agatha Christie novels.) I didn't have as much fun with this one.I picked up this book at the library because I hadn't read a novel like this in ages.
Only after this character figures that out do we start hearing about how Nancy always looked familiar to him.
I need to hear about those nagging little inklings before they're realized, not after.Also, Clark freaking SUCKS at writing children's dialogue.
I have never heard any child speak like the kids in her books.Basically, my editing brain would not shut up during this whole novel.
یک داستان جنایی هیجان انگیز که تا تمومش نکنی نمیتونی بگذاریش کنار.داستان در مورد زنی هست که در هفتمین سالگرد کشته شدن بچه هاش، دو تا بچه ی دیگه ش گم میشن.
برای خواننده ای که جنایی زیاد خونده، به قدری سرنخ از قاتلِ آدم ربا هست که سریع تشخیصش بده.
با این وجود همچنان جذاب و هیجان انگیزه.شخصیت "ری" خیلی دوست داشتنی بود.
پدری که بچه هاش گم شدن و همسرش مظنون اصلیه.
اون حتی نمیدونه که آیا بچه هاش رو بار دیگه میبینه یا نه اما از همسرش حمایت میکنه.
در حقیقت نمی خواد همسرش رو هم از دست بده.
Mary Higgins Clark based her first suspense novel on the real life case of Alice Crimmins.
Mary Higgins Clark read about the case and as she explained in the forward of the book she based Where are the Children?
One day the children disappear while playing outside and when her past is conveniently revealed in the town's newspaper on the day of the disappearance suspicion naturally falls on her.I picked this book up because I saw a piece on Many Higgins Clark on CBS Sunday morning.
I was so impressed with her life story and the book's connection to a real crime that I wanted to read it.
Wollte man in die Details gehen, so werden diese Zufälle immer haarsträubender und legen die Vermutung nahe, dass MHC für ihren ersten Thriller zahlreiche Einfälle hatte, sich nicht entscheiden konnte und schließlich alle bunt kombiniert hat.
Dabei wird der Leser nicht gefordert, im Stile eines Who-Dunnit zu mutmaßen, wer der Entführer ist, denn das erfährt er gleich auf der ersten Seite, sondern die Spannung resultiert aus der Frage, ob die gekidnappten Kinder dieses Mal gerettet werden können.
Opinião completa http://soberanadanoite.blogspot.fr/20...Foi, pura e simplesmente, incrível!A história faz-nos dar voltas e voltas à cabeça, a tentar juntar peças, a pensar "hum...
Foi aquele" "afinal parece que não.
Deve ser este".
Até que, a 1/4 do final do livro...
Oh meu deus!
E é nesta altura que as pessoas também começam a desvendar peças que faltavam e que eles percebem quem realmente foi.E depois é uma correria frenética para salvar as crianças.Foram 200 pag fantasticas!
Adorei cada uma!E Nancy e Ray formam um casal de sonho!Estamos, sem dúvida, sob um excelente romance policial.Estava com as expectativas baixas e surpreendeu-me imenso!
Haven't read any of Mary Higgins Clark's books in quiet a while. After reading this one I realized again why I love her writing. Throughout the whole book I was trying to figure out who the kidnapper/murderer was and what happened to Mack. Every time I thought I was right I was proven wrong. Her books are so easy to read and flow nicely through the chapters.
I came across this book when I was in high school.
In this book the audience - the readers - see that it is all too easy for a man to do so, especially when he appears to be suave and good and nice.
I recently read another Clark book and it had a different theme, but was based on a twisted phsyche as well.The things that people do to each other...
Nem sempre o que parece, é!Uma leitura bastante empolgante e cheia de surpresas... gostei muito.
Not my thing but very well done. Fast-paced, hard to put down. Not a deep character study. Not a mystery. But a...domestic thriller? I'm not sure what to call it. It moves as fast as a Patterson (and I suspect he studied some of the author's techniques at some point) but stays grounded in home and family. What I don't like about it is that it's a button-pusher, not so much focused on telling a story as provoking the reader. It does that sort of thing very well--but again, not my thing.
This book was horrible.
En fin, eventualmente llegó el final y no quedé muy convencido, pero asumí que fue solo por ser su novela debut.Teniendo ya experiencias con libros suyos posteriores, me sirvió para ver el crecimiento literario de Mary.
Sus novelas tienen algo que no me dejan soltarla, quiero seguir conociendo más de sus historias.Todos sus thrillers tienen tramas oscuras y psicológicas pero muchas veces esa trama queda opacada por los personajes totalmente olvidables que la protagonizan.
Este, en particular, es un libro de esos que después de leerlo te dejan angustiado por un instante pero que luego queda para el olvido.
(Or their witty prose and ability to write memorable characters.) I think that's at least partly because the central mystery involves events years in the past and across the country, which means given the little we're told, I knew by 15 pages in that the kidnapper of the children could be one of only two possibilities, and by 20 pages in guessed which of the two was probably guilty--and the nature of the "twist" and I was right.
I first read this book in junior high, and remembered being unable to put it down. I've read a few Mary Higgins Clark books since then, and they've been ok, but nothing that really grabbed me. Then I came across Where Are the Children at a used book sale and decided to read it again. And I finished it in two days flat. It would have been one, but I did have to be a parent during the time I was trying to read. :)
My Rating: Three & 1/2 StarsThis was actually really, really good for a debut novel.
Considering the subject matter, it clearly demonstrates that Mary Higgins Clark was ahead of her time when she wrote the book in 1975.
I would know.Also, I had to struggle to make myself keep reading during the first half of the book.
Granted, it's Clark's first novel and my first time to read her work...take it with a grain of salt.
I was possessed I needed to know what was going to happen, I was desperate to know if things would work out...This book made me question the abilities of man on every level.
It was a beautiful reminder actually that people will surprise you and that there is quite possibly more shining exemplary examples of good people than there are evil and in the face of all that is awful and ugly that is usually when people pull together and form a community - even if they were not necessarily ever very close before - that strengthens them.
* Mary Higgins Clark's second novel and her first suspense novel.* Number 50 on the Mystery Writers of America's list "The Top 100 Mystery Novels of All Time." This list also includes Agatha Christie's book, The Witness for the Prosecution.
That was a short story, not a novel.
Not only can it turn short stories into novels, I think it can turn novelty into greatness.
Simon & Schuster got lucky--or were the only publisher who recognized the value of novelty.* Where Are the Children?
isn't a great book.
Really, my only problem with the book had to do with the authors descriptions.
For example, she would take the time to describe the main characters clothing which sounded like things my 60 year old mother would wear, not a 28 year old.
Also, her description of the characters 900 sq.
apartment made it sound like a 90 sq.
apartment that had one bedroom with walk-in closet, decent size bath, living/dining area (with enough room to fit a rectangular table for 4 and seating around the entertainment center), kitchen, office area, as well as a walk in laundry room.
Mary Higgins Clark is a best seller for a reason - and that is she is predictable, not necessarily in plot or style but in that her books are readable and enjoyable - yes there may be a formula you quickly get the feel for and the characters may sometimes feel like they have been lifted right out of one story in to the next - but still they are well written and fun reads.
Nancy (Harmon) Eldredge moved to Cape Cod from California to escape a haunting past: her children Peter and Lisa were murdered, and she was accused of and tried for their deaths.
Over six years, she has remarried and created a new life for herself, complete with a home, husband, and two children.
But, on her 32nd birthday, that all changed when her two children (Mike and Missy) were kidnapped and her past and true identity were revealed in the local paper.
Now, Nancy must face her past and force the police to focus on other suspects to save her children before it is too late.
Great suspense but "blah" characters.In her first suspense novel, Clark does a great job of developing the tension by offering up enough red herrings to ensure a gradual reveal, but also enough solid hints to allow the reader to figure it out. Unfortunately, her characters were weak cliches and not particularly interesting.All in all this was an okay and easy read that will be most appreciated by fans of the suspense novel.
I so enjoyed this book. This is MHC’s first suspense novel and it is so well written. I read it years ago but it’s been long enough that I didn’t remember how it ended. Excited to get into the next one!
This was a really thrilling book and good read. I love how she used each character in the book. I'll be adding Mary Higgins Clark to my list of go-to authors.
PERILS OF PAULINE: Having read a little Mary Higgins Clark, I still didn't know what to expect from this iconic book that catapulted her to suspense thriller fame in 1975.
And then, ta da, in the conclusion, Nancy Harmon suddenly finds the brains and strength to do something to save her own children (even helped slightly by three female characters whose purpose isn't really clear until MHC gives them this role.) What to make of that.
The other couple of books of MHC that I've read are later efforts.
Clark dances back and forth between the first kidnapping and the current one, building suspense by trying to make you put the pieces together from the beginning.
The book begins very fast, but as soon as you have all the evidence as to who kidnapped her children, the pace slows down, and it builds suspense while you wait for them to figure it out as well.
At the end, you know who did it, you know why, you know how, but Clark still manages to surprise with the final reveal of the kidnappers true identity.I really enjoyed Where are the Children?
This is my second Mary Higgins Clark novel that I've read.
This one was a little better than the last one at least, but I knew who the person in question was that kidnapped the kids, but by the time I figured that out, I was a bit bored of the story and wanted it to end, so I really didn't care.
I guess I just like more complicated dangerous, mysterious and thrilling novels than this kind of story.
I've just read some REALLY good mysteries in my life and this one just doesn't cut it for me.
I read this book many years ago, and just re-read it as I remembered that it was one I had really enjoyed. I had forgotten the story, so enjoyed it just as much the second time.
My first Mary Higgins Clark novel & I enjoyed it. Fast read & though I saw the twist coming, you still don’t know how it’s going to end, until it does! Read for popsugar 2018 challenge prompt:A book with song lyrics in the title
where are the children is a book about Nancy Harmon and her past she was convicted of killing her first to children peter and Lisa.
Nancy then had two more children Micheal and Missy.
No one knew of her past until her children where kidnapped, or so she says.
once the police did a background check on her everyone was convinced it was her except her husband and new trusted friends.This book was good i liked it a lot.
MY favorite characters in the book was Micheal and Ray. I liked Ray because Ray believed his wife even with her past which too a lot of trust and courage.
