https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10344019-the-adventure-of-the-mazarin-stone
Watson arrives at Baker Street to find Holmes in bed at seven in the evening.
Billy the page explains that Holmes has been on the trail of a missing jewel, a Crown diamond no less, worth £100,000.
Holmes soon emerges and explains that the dummy is a decoy, much the same as he used in “The Adventure of the Empty House”.
Holmes, it would seem, is fully expecting an attempt on his life that evening, and even has Watson write down the murderer’s name and address, just in case the attempt is successful.
The jewel thief is Count Negretto Sylvius of Moorside Gardens.Moments later, Billy comes in with the Count’s card.
This is the first Holmes book that I can't say I really enjoyed. It was written in third person as opposed to Watson or Sherlock telling the story, it repeated a trick used by Holmes in "The Empty House", and it didn't read nicely like all the other Holmes stories up to this point have. I feel like there is definitely some legitimacy to the claim that Conan Doyle did not actually write this.
meh... kinda boring. I don't think these later stories measure up to the earlier ones.
Short and sweet Sherlock Holmes novella.
Also, I really like the mysteries that are narrated by Watson in first person, so to read a third person narrative was slightly unsettling for me.
I actually went back to the cover to check whether it was actually written by Arthur Conan Doyle, so I am kinda used to how he writes and the words that we expect next.
Nevertheless, an enjoyable read.
I am a proud Arthur Conan Doyle fan so of course I recommend this to everybody, even though the older ones are much better.
Read Sherlock books!
Read all of them :D
A plot point from "The Adventure Of The Empty House" is blatantly repeated here and the continual mention of (view spoiler)[an airgun that never actually appears in the story (hide spoiler)] is particularly annoying.
This is perhaps not surprising as according to Wikipedia this story was first written by Conan Doyle as a play that featured the same villain as "The Adventure Of The Empty House" who did use (view spoiler)[an airgun (hide spoiler)] and only when the play was adapted for publication was the current villain inserted in his place.The practical joke Holmes pulls on a critic of his at the end of the story is really the only redeeming feature.
Probably my least favorite story of the original canon.
It's kinda slow.
It's has some real bad pacing problems and the plot...well for a Sherlock Holmes story is quite poor.
Plus you can get confused quite easily with this story as it's written in 3rd person.
One of only 2 stories in the original canon to do so.
But it's not the worst thing in the world.
But for a Sherlock Holmes story it's poor.
And this comes from a Sherlock Holmes fan!
But i do know people who do like this story.
I'm not a fan.I give it a 3.5/10
I always like Sherlock Holmes, but I didn’t love this one.
First, he’s already solved who the culprit is before the story starts; he just needs to find the stolen diamond, he knows who the thief is.
Second, he uses a trick that he’s used before and it’s a large part of the story in both instances, I’m not a fan of the repetition.
And the whole story takes place in Holmes’ sitting room, which just isn’t terribly interesting.Overall, this is not one of my favorites of the Holmes stories, but it’s short and there’s a little bit at the end that redeems the story somewhat
Holmes is looking for a missing gem.
Oh Holmes! I love your sense of humor
The third short story in The Case Book of Sherlock Holmes by Arthur Conan Doyle. Sherlock Holmes uses trickery to solve a case. Witty and entertaining.
In this story, Dr. Watson arrives at 221B Baker Street where Boy Billy shows him a wax effigy of Holmes placed near a curtained window in the sitting room.
When the Count decides to double-cross Holmes and takes the stone from his secret pocket to show Sam in window light, the detective springs from the chair in place of his replica and grabs the £100K jewel.
Its adaptation from the theatre also explains why the action in this story is confined to one room.In the original play, the villain was Holmes's enemy Colonel Sebastian Moran of "The Adventure of the Empty House" infamy, not Count Negretto Sylvius.I recommend this book to all readers who appreciate a well written mystery story.
Yet another Holmes and Watson adventure, this is one of the short stories from 'The Case-book of Sherlock Holmes'... The text is available online here: http://sherlock-holm.es/stories/pdf/a...
Short, sweet, and oddly in third person, this story is basically how Sherlock tricks a fellow into confessing his crime, and then plays a mean trick on a government muckety-muck. Cute, but lacking depth.
The Adventure of the Mazarin Stone is yet another witty and whimsical little tale within the Holmes' chronicles. The dastardly villain an the typical bufoon sidekick make the story all the more comical. I just wish it were longer!
Déçue, il ne s'y passe rien.
now this was different and brilliant. Loved it
This is a solid Holmes performance, containing an interesting twist on a previous device that Holmes used in another story.
11/23/14 2.5
Another short story in the collection. This one was unusually written in third person.
Verdienstelijk. Vandaag de dag zou Holmes' strategie wel niet meer pakken.
My favorite things about the Holmes stories is hearing the internal dialogue as well as the spoken dialogue. The third person of this story was not my cup of tea.
