https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1061542.The_Irish_R_M
Read this after seeing the Masterpiece Theater presentation of the novel. Again, which is the better work: the book or the mini-series? If you love to try to figure out the Irish then this is the book for you. Set in Ireland, the Irish magistrate learns to live with the local Irish population's follies, foibles, and way of life. Amusing and a rollicking good read!
I was driven to this by the television series, but the stories of the stolid Englishman, his devoted wife, and his madcap Irish friends are even more delightful, though one must imagine the Irish scenery.
Funny collections of stories. I'd love to get the videos and watch them! This won't be an easy read for most people. But I loved it.
This is a good book for dipping into as each chapter is self contained. It is very funny and enjoyably, but I probably would have appreciated it more if I knew anything about horses & fox hunting.
The general plot line seems to be our hero = a staid young man who just wants to get on in life, so has taken this post to advance himself & win the girl he wants to marry.
He's landed amongst a bunch of daft Irish, & constantly embroiled in their madcap, generally illegal & illicit schemes, which always fail and land our hero in the stuff, while the Irish slide away unscathed.
There's over 500 pages of this.
By page 148, it hadn't gotten much better, so I abandoned it.
I loved the 1980's Peter bowls series. So when I bought the book I thought I would be in for more of the same. First thing I would say is that in the edition I bought the text was way to small.Secondly the language is a bit difficult to understand. I am Irish and have to think back to how my gran used english to understand this. Its better to read it out loud.Its another one of those books that I never finished, but might give it another go.Alex
Maybe someday or there's always netflix. addendum- added 10/20/10 -- I did watch the Irish RM series a couple years back and enjoyed it. I know that doesn't make me a good reader but some people listen to books on tape, too. Why should I be to be so harsh on myself for not reading everything out there???
These are my favourite books. I love the Irish idiom, and the Irish eccentricities are offset perfectly by Major Yeates's understated commentary. I re-read them every year and they still make me laugh. Oh and it helps to know a little about horses and hunting to appreciate them fully.
As an American currently living in Ireland, I found much in this book to learn from. The need and desire to "diddle 'em" come across as being quite real; the characters are true at least for some parts of rural Ireland as I see it daily. The television series was engaing in its way as is the book.
john veigel
The perfect book about life in Ireland filled with humour, splendid characters & amazing ancedotes of country life as observed by the befuddled retired English aristocrat. Absolutely lovely~~~~
Wonderful series on BBC and the book is great fun, too. Actually written in 1899, so the language is a bit quaint, but it all just fits so nicely. Each chapter is a separate escapade or episode.
Very warm and humorous. Irish country houses, hounds and hunting. Funniest episode is during a hunt when RM has to seeks help and help a damsel in distress.
no ...couldn't be doing with it...bit too folksy for me
I enjoyed the Masterpiece Theatre production of this book, but I wasn't as engaged by the book.
Rollicking fun
As I recall, a delightful selection for March.
