https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123586.The_Rider_of_Lost_Creek
All three Kilkenny westerns are my favorite, but the first one is still THE BEST and one of the very best western novels I've ever read in my life.
Aside for the Sacketts, Lance Kilkenny is my most favorite hero of Wild West.
And most of all, even if in the end he was still a lone drifter who just couldn't ignore the call of the wild, a beautiful wonderful woman loved him and waited for him, and someday, somewhere, he'll return to that woman to repay her love.
Yeah, I'm just a hopeless romantic, and freaking LOVED the unforgettable relationship of Lance Kilkenny-Nita Riordan!
I’m attempting to read a few of my Fa’s westerns in exchange for him expanding his horizons with my books.
I admit I was surprised by the intricacies of the plot, but I was also surprised that the lead female role was an independent entrepreneur and remained so.
Overall, it was a compelling read and L’Amour is a much more talented writer than I expected.
The indigenous violence I feared also wasn’t present, and while it was your typical “shoot ‘em up”, it was more complex and had more thought put into it than that.
Honestly, it wasn’t really a bad read
I realized I had never read any Western books (besides reading the biography of Frank and Jesse James in high school, which I really liked), so I went to our local bookstore and decided to try one out.
It was short and to the point and I loved ever minute of it!L'amour knew the Old West like the back of his hand...I had to look up a few terms, but at least I now know what "dry-gulched" means...and feel better prepared for another L'amour western adventure!I'll definitely read more and look forward to Kilkenny #2.
yippee ki aye! riders of the storm.
Some days you just have to read a good ole Louis L'Amour book!This one happens to be the place where I first saw the name Destry (the name of my firstborn son--who was quite disappointed that he was only a minor character who was killed off).
"Destry was a wonderful fellow.
He was a very good man with a gun, and one of the best riders and ropers around.
Everyone made a lot of Des, but he was a very regular fellow in spite of it" (129)."This is a violent time.
But if only bad men could use guns the world would be in a sorry state.
A short and effective Western with plenty of action. George Guidall narrates the audiobook and, as usual, does so with excellence.
Another great one from L'Amour. Lots of twists and turns at the end.
I'm not normally a big fan of westerns, hence why my family (who have all read pretty much every book by this guy) hadn't convinced me to pick up one of Mr. L'Amour's stories.
(When you're on a roadtrip with friends, sometimes you get outvoted.) And I will admit that I thoroughly enjoyed myself!
I can clearly see why he's such a well-loved author, he quite impressed me with his ability to keep me invested in the story.
I was anxious to find out how things were going to go and hoping that it wouldn't end with my favorite characters dead!
Perhaps I shall read another L'Amour book someday!
Lance Kilkenny is a man who wants to be left alone. Nita Riordan is a good woman who inherited a saloon. The two become friends along with her half-Indian guard. The two get caught up in a range war.
It was good in a lot of ways, but also deeply odd in others.
OK, but felt like they went on a little too long and weren't the best ways to present the information.
On the other hand, there was a good mystery, strong verisimilitude, and lots of really nice bits.
It ends up getting the slightly higher rating just because it was a good example of how to do a Gumshoe game as a western - the hero rides into town, finds a mystery, collects clues, puts them together.
It felt like a good, well done short western RPG campaign.
This was a stretch read for me from the BookRiot Read Harder challenge. I wasn't expecting to like a western but found the book contained some interesting twists.Yes, the writing is full of fist fight, bar fight, shooting, repeat.It was good to try a book that is completely out of my usual reading repertoire.
I really like reading L'Amour's books, and I thoroughly enjoy the character of Kilkenny...however I typically do not appreciate the endings of his novels, and that's the case specifically here. The story has this big build up and it just ends rather abruptly. Maybe I'm being too picky but all in all it was a good story. 3.5/5 stars.
My first Louis L'Amour book and I liked it! There was quite a twist at the end that made my jaw drop and I said, "whaaaaat?" Definitely a great western. Except for certain passages where L'Amour had the narrator list off a million or so gun fighters. Those got a little boring, not going to lie! But overall an enjoyable read!
The first in the Kilkenny series. Good story, though a bit more on the reflective side than the usual Louis L'Amour story. I really liked the mystery of the story and I will admit, I had no idea who the bad guys were until close to the end. As always with Louis L'Amour, a good western.
a really quick read very enjoyable story which read almost as much as a detective novel as it did a western. Lots of characters for a relatively short story sometimes had a hard time keeping who's who straight.
Gotta love Louie!
Decent commute read. Finally read the prequel to "The Mountain Valley War", which details how Brockman's brother was killed and how Trent knows Nita Riordan.
Clean and quick. What more could you want?
Gunfighter classicA gunfighter classic with all the western themes: gun fighters, ranch feuds, outlaws, rustling, enchanting women, lone riders, the whole bunch.
I usually like ole Louis, but I just couldn't get into this one much.
If you love old Western's you will enjoy this book
I liked it.
Classic L'Amour. Quick read.
A great western in the true tradition, where the good guys are loyal, brave, well mannered and chivalrous and the bad guys are really bad. Lots of action and a little romance. Louis L’Amour was a Master of Westerns.
See my review at Kilkenny
Having heard of Louis L'Amour for decades (but never having read him) I was really looking forward to this novel, the first in the Kilkenny series, and for all his reputation, L'Amour doesn't disappoint.
I'm a huge fan of William Johnstone (though since his death I'm not sure how many of his novels today are actual written by him) and Ralph Cotton, and I love True Grit, by Portis, but I have to admit there's something special about L'Amour.
My only complaint--and it's minor--is that L'Amour often asks questions, in the third person, addressed to the reader.
In the end, my first encounter with L'Amour was a positive one, and I look forward to many more.
Meh. Coming off the Hopalong Cassidy series, which was fantastic, this was more of typical Louis L'Amour writing.Lance Kilkenny rides off to help Mort Davis, a friend, who seems to have found himself in a 3-way turf war for cattle and land.
It's quite predictable who this person is, so you just sort of set along for the ride, as entertaining as it can be, and read it through.The glaring problem, however, is the oversight of not concluding the Mort Davis story.
The three ranchers eventually come together to fight the Puppet Master, but Mort Davis just sort of falls out of the story.
So when Mort Davis, a man who saved his life years ago, asks for Kilkenny’s help, he rides off to help him try to avert an impending range war.
I have not read a lot of L'Amour, so when I saw “The Rider of Lost Creek” as a Kindle special, I got it – and I am glad I did.
“The Rider of Lost Creek” depicts an impending range war with the growth of the use of barbed wire on the open range.
If you enjoy a good western or would simply like to try the genre, I would recommend his Kilkenny stories.
He tries to live a quiet life, but when his friend Mort Davis gets caught in the middle of a range war, Kilkenny isn't about to walk away.
Mort saved his life once, and Kilkenny doesn't desert his friends.It's not great prose (e.g. L'Amour has the maddening habit of calling his protagonist both "Lance" and "Kilkenny," sometimes a paragraph apart).
The story is simple and trope-filled.
However, raised on John Wayne (both the 1930s B-movies and the big-studio classics), I'm a lifelong sucker for every last one of these tropes.
