https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/252429.Telling_Lies
Paul Ekman is without a doubt one of the top experts in the world on facial expressions in humans.
No book can teach anyone to be positive that someone else is telling the truth.
No book can tell anyone proof-positive indicators of lying.
And, Paul Ekman himself says that every one of the indicators of lying that he uncovered don't always indicate lying.
All the machines and facial tics and conversational tics tell you that someone is nervous or anxious and deceit is not the only thing that makes people nervous.
Ekman's careful descriptions of these indicators are very well worth reading about.
This one should have been really interesting. It's written by one of the scientists whose work serves as the inspiration for "Lie to Me", yet you haven't really experienced boring until you read upwards of 40 pages describing minute facial expressions. Also, I was disappointed that there was really nothing in here I hadn't already seen presented in a more interesting and engaging way. Were this a documentary, it would have been awesome. As a book, I just wanted it to end.
Referenced in Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking and A Whole New Mind: Why Right-Brainers Will Rule the Future. Unlike other reviewers I was happy to wade through pages of micro expressions which I found to be the most useful part of the book. A full chapter on the workings of polygraphs, however, was a different matter and I ended up skipping that altogether.Read in research for WIP.
Because the TV show Lie to Me is based on the work of Paul Ekman, the casual reader may expect something a bit more fun and glamorous.
Ever the scientist, Ekman rightly refers to a lot of academic studies for his evidence.
Unfortunately the text is overly targeted at an American audience, with a bit too much reference to polygraphs (rarely used outside of the USA), and a heavy bias towards American cases in the application chapter, leaving international readers at a bit of a loss.
My final verdict is that it is scientifcally accurate, but it needs a bit of work to make it more accessible to the casual reader.
I've heard about this guy and his research on microexpressions from a different book.
Here he discussed his research findings and the different clues to deceit that a liar might leak.
The things I got from this book are: 1) a huge list of clues to deceit (not sure if I will ever get to use them in my life) 2) most of us are no better than chance as lie detectors 3) it's really hard to lie unless you're naturally born liar (psychopaths..) 4) it's really hard to detect lies and you need hours of training to be an exper lie detector I hated the poor editing of the book.
This book paired with "How to Help Your Spouse Heal From Your Affair: A Compact Manual for the Unfaithful" was just what I needed after discovering my husband's affair. I proudly displayed this on my nightstand for him to see. Surprisingly, I enjoyed the book and would recommend to others.
There are two things I can't tolerate:1. When the author repeats the same points MANY times throughout MANY chapters -- The fluffy stuff that's squeezed in with every new concept2. When the author teases you with just enough information to keep you entertained / interested, but to get anything useful out of it, you have to purchase their other workBoth apply to this book. Honestly, I couldn't get past chapter 6.You'll get more out of reading the first four chapters + appendix and invest in his online micro-expression training course.
Și că toate aceste simptome sunt cu atât mai relative cu cât diferențele culturale și lingvistice sunt mai mari între persoana care minte și persoana care dorește să descopere adevărul.O altă mare parte din carte a fost dedicată poligrafului sau, așa cum mai este cunoscut, detectorului de minciuni.
În cele din urmă, deși îmi doream să învăț noi lucruri despre emoții și modul cum acestea pot fi depistate, am fost atenționată într-un mod foarte meticulos, insistent și, poate chiar disperat, ce muncă dificilă este aceasta, cât de mulți factori trebuie luați în considerare și cât de relativ este fiecare caz particular.
I think it is the indy bookstore's less than desirable stock.
Its subtitle, "Clues to Deceit in the Marketplace, Politics, and Marriage," suggested that I might immediately be catapulted into scintillating and eye-opening analyses of advertising and commercial lies, why they succeed and fail, and perhaps how to spot a lie.
Or maybe talk about famous commercial lies.
Not a chance.So, failing that, you'd think I'd bee exposed to discussions of famous political lies.
Well, there is some of that -- Nixon, John Dean, and a couple of obscure political incidents and figures.
But nothing especially compelling, though the story about John Dean was interesting enough.
I'm sure he means well and I'm glad he takes the time to think through the implications of his findings (and opinions), but I have a hard time reading what I've already easily inferred from the text, and many of the ideas are repeated.Unlike Emotions Revealed: Recognizing Faces and Feelings to Improve Communication and Emotional Life, this book is more philosophy than psychology.
This means his main point is, "there isn't a sure way to detect deception from any of these methods", and writing a whole book about how each method isn't foolproof can be a bit wearing.
A maelstrom of original and ground-breaking information never seen before it was published some 30 years ago; by the man who "Lie to Me" was based upon.
The first three chapters can be dry and redundant but they lay the foundation for what a lie is and what types there are.
Chapter 4 gets into the meat of identification and can leave you exhausted after just a few pages; the 3 pages that describe a chosen 18 types of smiles, for example.
The real-life historical examples (Hitler/Chamberlain, Watergate figures, murderers, and philanderers)used throughout work much better than the lies and liars he provides from literature (Updike, Shakespeare, and others).
Okay, to start off with, this book is a psychology book on how lies are physiologically expressed.
Reading this book will give you an understanding on how emotions leak through when people attempt to hide them.
It will not suddenly allow you to read the emotions of all the people all around you, nor will it magically turn you into a lead character of the show Lie to Me.That said, this book is one of the foundation books on the topic.
If you're not looking for some snake oil, and are generally interested in the topic of lying, this book comes highly recommended.
While the subject matter was interesting, the book itself was too repetitive, and the material didn't have enough study to back it up. The other does acknowledge that fact, though. Also, I expected the book to be more prescriptive: I thought literally be better able to tell when someone is lying or hiding information after reading this book, but I don't think that's the case. It was not a bad book, but it could have been much better.
The title of this book is a little misleading, as it is really about the psychology of lying, the physiological reactions that occur when someone is being deceptive, and an analysis of the profession of lie catchers (polygraph examiners, investigators, interrogators, etc.) and their efficacy. Interesting read from an intellectual curiosity standpoint, but I wouldn't put it on a list must reads.
This book was brilliant!! I especially appreciated the way that Ekman points out howm many reasons that you can't use this information at face value. Everything must be taken in context. I felt that the information was very credible because of this. I learned so much from reading this book.
I thinking most people will find a quick skim of this book just as edifying as a close read.
I found this book really interesting as it explored clues to deceit and the psychology involved in telling lies. I loved reading about the author's research experiments about lying.
Even if you can learn some things reading this book, the truth is that the general idea is that, unless you have an innate skill, you will never be able to prove if someone is lying or not.
In general terms, most of the people are not able to find out when someone is telling a lie with a probability superior to a 50%; that's the same as saying that the possibility of hitting is not higher than chance.
I also think that Ekman presents the ideas of his book in such a way that seems as if he had never told a lie, making moral judgements about even the lightest lies.
Professor Ekman uses a vast and creative range of examples in this nevertheless dry guide to liar catching - from the Pope's meeting with Poland's General Jaruzelski, Egyptian President Anwar Sadat studying Mussolini's facial dexterity, Hitler's misleading Chamberlain, Woody Allen, courtroom figures from televised legal cases in the news, Desdemona's deceit in Shakespeare's Othello, Ruth the philandering wife in John Updike's Marry Me, to bona fide scientific research such as The Control Question Technique and various case studies.
It was super difficult for me to even ascertain subtle differences between the photographed facial expressions provided.
This book sat on my night stand for literally months; mostly I appreciate its sleep-inducing properties.
First off I love Ekman and the concept of his work but way the book is written is just terrible: It's boring repetitious on certain point and soul sucking to get through.
You can't even blame the use of scientific or psychological jargon because there was none.
AS much as a wanted to continue I had to give up at page 177 (first time ever).
I do have another one of his books that I will try in the hope that it will be easier to complete but I'm really disappointed because I genuinely like and am interested the subject.
However, Ekman needs to work on his writing style.
There is some interesting information in this book, but that is about all I can say.
The way the information is presented is mind numbing, dull, boring, etc.
If you can make it through, you will basically learn that whether you think you are a good detector of lies or not, you most likely are not.
Bottom line is, don't read this book if you want to learn how to tell or detect lies.
Read this book if you want to understand how complicated lie telling/detecting is, and if you are bored.

The topic is interesting and the description of real test and cases makes it more engaging. also it addresses tests and other possible topics of investigation that could influence this new field of research. But it feels like reading the same few pages over and over again.He repeats the same concepts over and over and over, maybe this should have been a 70 pages essey instead of a 300 pages book.
Ben strutturato, la lettura è molto scorrevole. Qualora si volesse trarre qualche spunto da usare nella vita di tutti i giorni, il libro deve essere ovviamente letto con più attenzione e ripreso di tanto in tanto, benché frutto di anni di ricerca non presenta grosse difficoltà di comprensione. Se vi è piaciuta la serie tv "Lie to me" o consiglio vivamente!
Pues realmente no tenia pensado que leer y estaba entre mis cosas asi que le di una oportunidad, a pesar de que no es mi tipo de lectura me entretuvo mucho, ahora no paro de tratar de leerme el rostro xD, interesante quizá tedioso para muchos otros.
It's a pretty concise book that tells the principles by which lie detection based on visual cues is practiced. Pretty clear on stating what types of lies are most common, and gives a guide to uncovering them. Gives a good insight into what non-verbal communication is,.
Подробни описания и интересни примери. Определено си заслужава. И не, след прочитането й няма да бъдете експерти в детекцията на лъжи. Ще имате една обща култура по въпроса защо и как лъжем, какво би ни издало, кои са едни от най-добрите лъжци в историята.
2.5
Amazing read by Paul Ekam, very educational he ties it back to politics a lot like with micro and macro expressions. Truly a good writer.
I haven't read his other book (though I watched Lie to Me and read pubs) so all the information was exciting and new.
