https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60141.Stormbringer
With Stormbringer, Michael Moorcock brings a superior fantasy series to a to formally effective and emotionally satifying conclusion.I love the Elric series, and sometimes wonder if I rate the books too highly.
For it is the brooding Byronic character of Elric himself, fated to kill those whom he loves, and the unique philosophical realm which determines the nature of that character, that together are the twin source of the Elric fans’ delight, making it easy to excuse the patches of mundane prose, the occasional narrative cliches.
In many other fantasy series, I might still be waiting for the plot to actually pick up.Already I have gotten a depth and breadth that exceeds many longer works, and that is despite the fact that several of the Elric stories are experiments that never quite concluded, and thus acted as filler.
Strong finale to the Elric saga.
Chaos as a determinative event to the future of the world and mankind.
You can read this as a mythological prelude to our current and actual world, a future world after our current humanity cycles to an end, or on another earth, perhaps a multiverse earth.
Also noteworthy is the status of certain warriors (including the Eternal Champion, perhaps) as figures that will return from death or slumber to save the world when needed, which I read as an analogy to the legends of King Arthur's messianic return.
In Stormbringer (and the other Elric novels to be sure) I get this feeling from a combination of atmosphere and setting, but Elric himself leaves me cold.
Elric keeps saying “thanks,” which to me feels like a very modern usage and out of place in this rather archaic setting.
I guess I expect more precise language in a pseudo-archaic world.I can’t say that I’m unhappy to be finished the Elric saga…..in many ways, it has felt like reading the same book six times.Book 203 of my science fiction and fantasy reading project.
The book starts with events mentioned in the epilogue of the last book: Elric's wife is kidnapped by forces of Chaos.
Elric's patron god Arioch also happens to belong to Chaos, so the poor albino has to fight his own patron.
This kidnapping also happened to be a minor detail of the all-out war between Law and Chaos in which Elric becomes involved in spite of himself.
This is a good conclusion to the series.
My only question is: I thought this was the final book from the way it ends, so why are there three more books in the series listed?
Perhaps that is why I don't consider him entirely evil but in being what he is, he seems to be even more human.Stormbringer (book VI) brings the most plausible answers regarding the nature and functionality of its world and Elric's place in it, answers that wouldn't stand on a  bulky incongruity in Moorecock's world and turn his universe into a pleasant meal for the faint hearted.Evil must fight Evil until good is strong enough to take hold.
Those who come after us will inherit something from us."" This alone, is enough to convince Elric that he has to fight, even if he and the world to which he belongs must come to an end and be made as if they never existed.
When I was a student at Cambridge during the late 70s, the Cambridge University Science Fiction Society had an evening every week at one of the local pubs. They were sufficiently well-known there that they had managed to persuade the bartenders to add a few SF-themed cocktails to their repertoire.The favourite was the Elric of Melnibone, which, I recall correctly, consisted of vodka and milk, with two maraschino cherries floating in it. Now what the I Have No Mouth And I Must Scream? I'm pretty sure that ice-cream was involved...
Short, Sharp, and Pretty Good10 May 2013 I just browsed through another review of this book and I think that the writer of that review pretty much describes Moorcock's style perfectly. He is an ordinary writer with big vision and is able to tell a story in a short book that can be pretty much read in a day. In fact I am tempted to go down to Northcote and actually try to get my hands on some of the Moorcock books again because of the fact that they tend to be a very short and quick read. Compare
He is an ordinary writer with big vision and is able to tell a story in a short book that can be pretty much read in a day.
In fact I am tempted to go down to Northcote and actually try to get my hands on some of the Moorcock books again because of the fact that they tend to be a very short and quick read.
I actually like books that can be read quickly, though on the other hand there are some big books out there that are simply so good that you cannot put it down and in the end you find yourself reading it until you have finished.
So tragic, so sad, so beautiful.
It's hard for me to write objectively about this book.
It blew me away when I first read it as a teenager and the memory of reading and re-reading it stays with me still.
It's a doomy, angst-ridden tale with a bleak ending and some very haunting scenes.
To this day, fourty years later, I can remember the mighty skyscraper sized Chaos fleet sailing across land and sea with its crew of the damned.
I'm not sure it would have such impact if I read it for the first time now.
Don't care.
My angst-ridden teenage self gives it five stars!
J'ai du un peu louper mon ordre de lecture d'Elric, puisque j'ai encore un tome à lire avant celui-ci qui est évidement le dernier.En effet, c'est dans ce tome que le Chaos, par l'entremise des sorciers de Pan Tang, tente de prendre le contrôle total de la Terre.
Franchement, c'est un destin dégueulasse.Heureusement, Elric est là, et au prix de tous les sacrifices, et après bien des péripéthies, sauve la Terre, et notre histoire, du Chaos.Ce tome est assez chouette, et l'histoire ménage son lot de rebondissements, de sacrifices épiques, et de méchants ...
مايكل موركوك يعود بقوة، بعد أن شككت أن الصراع بين سادة الفوضى وقوى النظام لن يصل إلى ذروته أبدًا ولن
I have heard or read many good things about Moorcocks Elric series, and, one evening, when I fancied a piece of quick science-fantasy action, I picked up STORMBRINGER.Now, a little way into reading it, I did some research and discovered that STORMBRINGER is actually the last in the Elric series, although it was the second written, originally comprising four linked novellas or novelettes, now worked more into a single narrative.
Cue stories of great battles of dragons, tigers and giant owls, fantastic and bizarre monsters, strange sorcery, exciting sea battles with hell-crewed ships, trips to the future, the intervention and warring of ancient Gods, and ultimately the cataclysmic destruction and re-making of the world, all in less than 200 pages.
If you look at the order of publication (see the website of Moorcock's Miscallany for details), this is the second collection of Elric stories, preceded in the U.S. by The Stealer of Souls, and this is the first one to tell a cohesive, novel-length story.
There's some powerful ideas about a set of entities or vehicles which corrupt everything that approaches, and of the horrific monstrosities that are the Chaos Lords.There is notably no mention of such things as the "Eternal Champion" or the "multiverse", although the cosmology has expanded to include the ideas of alternate planes of existence and creatures that may straddle the realms.
I would be curious to see how the notion of Eternal Champion spread over Moorcock's writing once introduced.
This book was everything I was looking for as a fantasy obsessed D&D playing teenager - no surprise, because Moorcock's work is the source material - as much or more than LOTR - for all those D&D fantasy worlds I inhabited in my high school years.Stormbringer is dark and tragic and painted in bold, psychedelic strokes.
His only means of gaining power and strength is through the black sword Stormbringer which sucks out the souls of its victims.
As Elric fights evil (or Chaos as it is represented in the book), his sword Stormbringer grows in evil power.
Finally finished the epic story of Elric of Melnibone!I struggled a bit through the novel, but not because I didn't enjoy it.
This is a pretty grim ending to a bleak story but it ends with a great deal of hope.I don't know, there's a lot I could say.
I know more have been written since these originals, but I probably won't ever read them, because, well, I have all of Elric's story now in my head, and the 1,200 pages of episodic adventures was more than enough for me.
Silly Moorcock…So Elric needs to invade the nation where his wife is held and for some reason he doesn’t summon a god to just wipe them all out or use a gizmo of mass destruction as he did before, things that are sooo easy for him to do.
Great way to save your hero Moorcock…After that Elric escapes the battle and confronts a rebel army who explain that his sword can kill even a god.
Oh you horny little devil, you destroyed the world for some pussy…Anyways, Elric seeks guidance and more people Moorcock uses as means to pull him by the nose with the excuse of the prophesy, appear and tell him what to do.
The sixth and last of the original saga of Elric unleashes the promised storm to end all storms, the Armaggedon slash Ragnarok slash Apocalypse Now that will end the world as we know it, either to usher in a new Age or to unravel Earth for eternity.
The final volume is structured similarly to the preceding episodes : a collection of four novellas that were published initially out of sequence in specialized magazines, yet are linked together into the ongoing saga of the albino sorcerer (I recommend reading the six books in chronological order, to get the best experience out of the epic adventures of Elric).

The Elric saga has always had an unsteady relationship with the laws of logic and physics, but this one goes all the way.
It's like that.Strangely the next book that follows this one (by one chronology at least) is called Elric at the End of Time.
In all honestly, I was starting to get tired of the series, but this mad psychdelic romp has really brought me straight back to it.Do you like your fantasy literature to resemble a nightmarish acid trip (with the gods of chaos and law fighting hand to hand in the background), if so, I can heartily recommend this charmingly weird book.
¡Oh, Elric! Esta fue nuestra ultima aventura juntos, y vaya que fue una épica aventura. Es triste saber como terminó y creo que en cierta forma siempre supe que acabaría así pero al llegar a ese momento uno no esta preparado para algo como eso.

The conclusion was satisfying, but the bulk of the novel contained filler that prevents me from scoring it higher. The series worked better as a string of novellas whose length suited the rapid pace and shallow plot of the story. This longer form book exposed the author's limitations and stifled the impact of Elric's self-reflective moments by lingering too long to a conclusion we all knew was coming. I would only recommend this series for those looking at reading a classic in the fantasy genre that influenced many of the modern masters who improved on every aspect of it.
The glum anti-hero Elric's saga comes to an end, or does it, in the sixth volume of doomed rightful ruler of Melnibone.In this volume we get the long anticipated final battle of Elric at the Doom Time when his age is destined to end. It is a satisfying conclusion to a decidedly gloomy series and anyone tired of a happy-happy-joy-joy world will be glad they read the entire series.
3,75 estrellasReseña en procesoNo me esperaba un final así... y sin embargo ahora no imagino otro final. Esta saga me ha parecido una buena idea pero mal aprovechada, o de un estilo literario más superficial y carente de detalles de lo que me gusta.
Ve böylece biter Melniboné'u Elric'in hikayesi. Okurun tüylerini diken diken eden, asla unutulmayacak bir sonla biter bu hikaye. Başından beri tahmin ettiğiniz, ama olabileceğine imkan vermediğiniz bir sonla kucaklar okuru. Onun gibi gri bir efsaneye de ancak böylesi yaraşırdı.
I love Elric and while he exemplifies melancholy and tragidy the story telling is always first rate. I reviewed these in the omnibus edition before, but read the paperback many years ago.
A very satisfying conclusion to the Elric Saga. Of course there are still more books, so I don't know what that means. Either way, I really liked this one.
Stormbringer is Elric's evil sentient sword forged by Chaos to defeat Chaos and re-establish the Cosmic Balance between the two forces.You can read this series out-of-order, though there's no point, since no book is much better than any of the others.
I read all six in a row (sort of, I'm always reading more than one book at a time), and the same thing did get tiring.The story of Elric is severely tragic.
Having said that, the female love interests are the only characters that are grounded and have any notion of common sense.

