https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15724654-the-mighty-storm
I desperately tried and wanted to love this story like many of its readers, but, ultimately, this book did not work for me.
My biggest issue with this story, besides the long-winded, and, frankly, amateurish and disjointed prose, was the author's tendency to tell me what to feel rather than allowing me to experience it myself.
When the prose managed to flow smoothly and passionately, it felt effortless and I easily became immersed in Tru and Jake's world; unfortunately, that happened rarely.
I know many readers love this book and I understand why–it's full of intrigue, drama, and spice.
Read.A well-written, beautiful story that put me through a deliciously emotional angsty ringer, made my heart race and flutter and had me swooning like crazy over Jake Wethers.I loved the writing style right from the start.
I think its easy for people on the outside to judge her initial reaction, but honestly, in her shoes, I’d prolly be having a lot of the same thoughts myself.There IS a little bit of a love triangle going on for a part of the book, and yes, when Jake and Tru first get physical, there IS cheating.
You plan on reading the book but don't mind a few spoilers because you want to read my awesome half-assed review (okay, so the narcissism was unnecessary, but you get my point).I'm not going to lie, I was a hair nervous to read this book.I know that a couple of my friends on GR were involved in some of the pre-release feedback for The Mighty Storm and I didn't want to piss off anyone if I hated the book because (surprise, surprise) I actually do like my friends.
5 You're my June Stars!  “It's always been you. I loved you from the moment I knew how to love.”  Choosing The Mighty Storm as my next read was definitely the BEST decision that I've made because this is now officially added to my list of favorites!At first, I thought the book was just like any other rock star romances that portray typical plots about a famous guy falling in love with an ordinary girl. Well, there were certainly clichés thrown in places in this book but I could say they were des
Choosing The Mighty Storm as my next read was definitely the BEST decision that I've made because this is now officially added to my list of favorites!At first, I thought the book was just like any other rock star romances that portray typical plots about a famous guy falling in love with an ordinary girl.
Now a music journalist, Tru did not expect her feelings for Jake to reawaken after seeing him again.The romance was intoxicating and the angst was so good I devoured it all up.
I just love Tru and Jake together!
5 SMOKING HOT JAKETASTIC STARS STOP WHAT YOU'RE READING AND READ THIS NOW!!!!!!!!! This book was so much more than a 5 Star Book! In-fact I don't think there's a rating high enough for it. YES!!! It was that freaking good!!!! Lets start somewhere absolutely delicious! I'm talking about Rock God extraordinaire, Jake freaking Wethers!!!! He's the quintessential bad boy, tattoo's, lean body, cocky, sexy, the whole damn package! He's the type of bad boy that immediately gives you flutters in your tu
Yes my friends that is a "Jake" quote!
I know totally bad boy hot right?!Jake and Trudy grew up together in the Uk and were best friends.
Jake wins you over immediately and worms his way into your heart and you fall in love with Tru even with all the stupid decisions she makes!!If you're looking for something sexy, angsty and just plain EPIC.
Jake and Tru
But I’m no good without you, and if that makes me a selfish bastard for wanting you as badly as I do then so be it because I can’t live a life that doesn’t have you in it.” ~~ Jake "You're it for me.
The book had a sweet, fun start that slowly evolved into a more in-depth, emotional read.When music journalist Trudy Bennett gets hired to interview one of the world's most famous and sexy rock stars, "Jake Wethers", she is extremely surprised and reluctant.
Even as she agrees to go on tour with Jake and his band to cover his biography, she refuses to betray her boyfriend Will.I cannot tell you how many times I forgot about poor Will throughout this story.
You were really sweet...I think the fact that Tru's boyfriend wasn't constantly present in this story made the love triangle pill a little easier to swallow.
Their raves piqued my curiosity and finally dived into my first Samantha Towle novel.Music journalist Trudy Bennett crossed paths again with her childhood best friend and lead vocalist of a famous rock band The Mighty Storm, Jake Wethers as she gets a chance to exclusively interview him for the Etiquette Magazine (the company Trudy works for).
She's been in love with him for a longtime but at some point they lost their communication.
Now that he returns in her life, the chemistry between them intensified.What a roller coaster of events between Tru and Jake.
I have a strong feeling I'll love it more than this book.
I loved the first 100 pages or so, and felt the book had promise to be great.
There is soooooooooooooooo much unnecessary drama that could have been avoided had either of these two had stopped being self involved enough to think through their situation rationally.
I also think that there were some editing issues, but not enough for me to care all that much about.So for the first 100-150 pages, I give it five stars.
I think this is one that you really need to be in the mood for.
I can see the appeal, but I read it at a time that I needed something a little more toned down.
Because I wasn't "turned-on" right away.
The second half was so effin amazing; I definitely wanted more of that.
You are going to sweat from the sweltering heat between Tru & Jake, the physical intimacy will leave you damp and dripping, the emotional heart-ache will have you in tears!Nothing compares to the gut wrenching emotions a reader experiences when the hero breaks your heart.
I hurt right along with Tru!
This book didn't find my "g" spot right away, but it did eventually find it.
It found it, played with it a bit, and left me wanting more...READ ON!Also reviewed at http://toughcriticbookreviews.blogspo...
Not only did I want MORE of the uber sexy tattooed rock god JAKE WETHERS…I know !!
I want you to experience & FEEL IT like I did ) From the moment she fell back into Jakes life some might say she had a choice to make…play it safe or risk it all !!!
I found myself selfishly not wanting release day to come so I didn’t have to share Jake & Tru with the rest of the world.
After finishing the read I now know why my gut was telling me this book really wasn't for me.
(view spoiler)[I hate cheating....
If you are in a relationship, supposedly love someone for two years...
So if you start having feeling for Jake so powerful...
But to play this game, drink to blot it out and be all "I can't tell him while banging Jake"...
No...And...Jake's not an innocent either...
so he isn't free and clear in my book either.I hate wishy washy women...
along with the cheating, hmmmm (hide spoiler)]So was there anything that I liked????
I liked this book a lot.
Ms. Towle needs a new editor.That being said, I loved everything else about this book.
Jake and Tru were meant to be together.
Tru was a annoying at first, but I liked her by the end.
Jake, well come on, what's not to like about him.
If your still on the fence about reading this because of the infidelity issue, all I can say is it's an important part of the story, but it's not just about that.
We read romance books and unfortunately in romantic relationships people do cheat.
I think this book handles that issue well.
Ok – so I’m trying to write this without giving anything away. I’ll let my fun and oh-so-creative use of gifs tell you for me… At first I was a little Then it started to seem a lot like the book Thoughtless and I was not happy.Then it started to not be like Thoughtless and I really liked it.Then some stuff happened and I was like…Then some other stuff happened and I was like…Then the ending happened and I was like…You should read it.
5 "First Love" Stars Jake Wethers lived next door to Trudy Bennett while growing up in England. Everything changed when he moved to America with his family at the age of 14. They kept up with each other for a while but eventually the letters stopped and so did the phone calls. Life goes on, you live your life, but do you ever forget? Young Love, First Love, True Love, Love Not Forgotten.....Can 12 years of not seeing each other bring back those feelings or has time erased what might have been?
Jake Wethers lived next door to Trudy Bennett while growing up in England.
I read this book in one day, I just couldn't put it down and well when you have a hot, gorgeous rock star who has a down and dirty side, who reconnects with the love of his life, could you put that down?
This story is about Jake and Tru and their discovery of the love that each had for each other so many years ago and how that love is still present.
Then there is Jake, rock star, womanizer, drug addict and the love of her life.....
From page one I was sucked into the drama of Jake and Tru and I couldn’t stop reading.
Both Jake and Tru grew up on music at the hand of her father.
That same passage comes back at the end of the book when Jake switches the song from Cash’s version to Reznor’s.
Here are links to both versions so you get an idea of the differences:Johnny Cash's "Hurt" Trent Reznor's "Hurt"Just listening to the differences in the songs is enough to make me tear up for Jake.
When nothing else would show Tru exactly what Jake was feeling, Reznor’s song got through to her.
She is in love with Will, her wonderful boyfriend of two years and she must hold onto that relationship, whilst at the same time try to deny and conceal the feelings she has for Jake.Jake (lead singer of The Mighty Storm) is dealing with past demons and Tru coming into his life gives him a purpose he didn’t know he needed until she returned.In Jake, the author has managed to bring us a strong, alpha, hot, yet sensitive and loving male lead character who is humanly flawed and let me tell you ladies, this guy is going to be the stuff of women’s fantasies that’s for sure!But not only has she managed to bring to life such wonderful characters in Tru and Jake, but also the supporting characters of the band, Denny, Tom, Smith and of course Jake’s PA Stuart who I just adored.This book had it all for me.
I will never hear this song without thinking of Jake! (Literally I saw the Killers on stage at Big Day Out on the 26/01/13 and although I love the band and the song, I still had a flashback to this book!)I love you Jake Wethers!  I love Jake I love Tru I loved everything about this book And can’t wait for the next!‘Nuff said
I loved this book!***SPOILERS AHEAD CHICAS***Yes Jake, I am spanish, I have a funny accent and I can talk in spanish to you ALLL THE TIME, lol...
OMGGGGGG :)I am not really into famous people books if you know what I mean, I feel a little bit like Tru about that, I don't think it's easy having a relationship with someone so famous, that's why I didn't read this one earlier but I was wrong!
Come one guys, judging her is the easy thing to do.The last day of the tour Will turns up in the hotel with Simone (I love best friends like her) and the drama starts.
They’ve lost touch over the years but fate is about to throw them back together and launch them on an incredible emotional roller-coaster of a journey that held my attention rapt from beginning to end.Jake is the archetypal rock star – he’s lean, muscular, tattooed and totally gorgeous.
I love it when the girl next door type in a book manages to attract the attention of someone like Jake – he’s pretty much the most famous rock God on the planet and yet he’s got eyes only for Tru. Story lines like this just fill me with hope and make me smile.
When I read a great, angst filled romance, my heart beats faster and I can feel every little twist and turn in the relationship in my chest.
The same is true of the Angst Express and it shoots up and down a few times going so fast that your heart is beating out of your chest and you have trouble catching your breath.
I love when books give me so many characters to love and think about for days to come!The Mighty Storm is an overall FANTASTIC reading experience full of romance, drama, angst, real-life issues and everything in between.
I was surprised about Jake after his Dad died...I really didn't think he would do that.Tru's best friend and roommate, Simone, is wonderful but I wish we would have gotten more of her.
He really shined in the story and I would love to get to know more about him.Poor Will...what happens with him broke my heart.
I loved you from the moment I knew how to love.”♥ “I love that it’s our thing … so do you want me to put them back on so you can rip them off?”♥ “And that’s why I prefer to dance in the bedroom.”♥ My best friend.
Thoroughly enjoyed the music component of this story. What didn't work for me was the infidelity that occurs and I just didn't feel the emotion between Jake and Tru as much as I would have liked to.All in all it had lots of drama and I would have bumped this up to 4 stars, if the heroine didn't grate on my nerves so much with her indecisiveness.
When they are reunited 12 years later, the emotional connection is still there, along with an intense chemistry that doesn’t let up the entire book.Told from Tru’s POV, the story moves at a great pace, and things develop really quickly.
It’s primarily a romance, and there are lots of gorgeously sweet moments (Jake is such a romantic!), as well as heaps of swoon.
Read this book if you want an incredibly emotional, beautifully romantic (and somewhat steamy) story.
Must.have.more!!!Oh, and a quick shout out to the little extra at the end of the book - the reunion scene from Jake's POV.
She is completely nervous about seeing him again after 12 years thinking he might not remember her but in Meet Jake, we know he has never forgotten Tru. After interview he asks her out for dinner for a trip down memory lane.What I loved about this is how easily they pick up after so many years apart.
Tru starts feeling bad because she knows the love for Jake has never really left while she's with her boyfriend Will.
She takes this opportunity and from this love blossoms, jealousy rears it's head, heartbreak is a given and everything that entails with the lifestyle...drugs, sex and rock-n-roll.
Re-read 4th - 5th August 2013***************************“He is the ultimate bad boy of rock.”I decided to spend a little time with an old book boyfriend and indulged myself in a delicious re-read. I want to be ready for Jake and the release of the hotly anticipated ~ Wethering The StormSo, what do you get if you indulge in The Mighty Storm????♥Am I setting the scene? Teenagers…....loved each other.....boy left......girl was sad……….He’s been away for 12 years…...…they lost contact?? Why???  Then
Re-read 4th - 5th August 2013***************************“He is the ultimate bad boy of rock.”I decided to spend a little time with an old book boyfriend and indulged myself in a delicious re-read.
Jake is gorgeous and Tru, well, I'd like to be best friends with her.♥ The Mighty Storm takes you on a delicious journey and makes you feel so much...it has it all, 
For all the Jake lovers, here are some beautiful quotes to remind you of our love for The Mighty Storm and our Superstar Rock Star!!!(view spoiler)[“It’s always been him my whole life.""He’s my best friend.
** 4 I ♥ Jake but can't f*cking stand Tru stars ** WARNING: for those of you who [like me] couldn't stand Thoughtless/Effortless bullsh*t, beware ... this is almost as bad. I am saying almost because this book doesn't have Keira and that is a HUGE bonus! However, this book DOES have Tru which is, once again, ALMOST as bad but not quite AS bad.Now that you have been warned ...If you are in the mood to put up with one of the most neurotic, self-absorbed, egotistical, me-me-me type female heroines
** 4 I ♥ Jake but can't f*cking stand Tru stars **
However, this book DOES have Tru which is, once again, ALMOST as bad but not quite AS bad.Now that you have been warned ...If you are in the mood to put up with one of the most neurotic, self-absorbed, egotistical, me-me-me type female heroines since Keira of Thoughtless in order to get a glimpse into a life of uber-hot rock star, go for it!
If you love your rock star bad boys & hate women they end up with, this book is for you.Cheers!
As a way to pass the time on a still too hot to play tennis like I wanted to Sunday, it wasn’t half bad.
She wanted him with an intensity like she’d never felt.
Since I wasn’t feeling WHY these two were soul mates or why Jake was as possessive from the get go as he was, I guess I just needed a little something extra to show me.
Their issues resolve themselves way too easily by the end and I felt this entire book just could’ve been more.
Wow... this book had me a mess! It was an emotional roller coaster for me, but I could not put it down! Really happy to hear there is going to be a second one! If you enjoyed thoughtless (s.c. stephens) You will love this!
No rating DNF 50%(view spoiler)[Did not know heroine cheats existing boyfriend with H.
I hate that.
Absolutely loathe it.
And the I do or don't have feelings for the Hero but I wont because boyfriend.
Then repeatedly lying to said boyfriend on the phone and to his face and not breaking up with him.
I don't wanna know how she resolves it, I don't care if she finds a spine somewhere and owns up to her shit.
And I don't care if she ends up with H.
I hate cheating but I truly hate the prevarication of it all.
(hide spoiler)]
3 "infuriating" starsI really had ups and downs with this book...it also has a subject of a hard lim
