https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351242.Mama_Black_Widow

I'm going through my old list of ten favorite novels, and this was near the top.
Basically, the final third needs the help of an editor.
Even though I love old novels with trans people as subjects, that is secondary to me (and if that is what drew you to the book, you'll feel let down by the grim epilogue).
I see "Mama Black Widow" as a story of exile felt by many who participated in the Great Migration.
The greatest interest for me was the shifting power between Mama and Daddy as he became useless and she became even harder.
This is a very graphic and gritty novel but not for the squeamish, faint of heart or those who want a happy ending because a happy ending you're not going to get.
Definitely on the order of Hubert Selby Jr's novels, Mama Black Widow tells a story of down and out people living in a private hell with no where to go but down.
Like Selby's Requiem for A Dream, Mama Black Widow would make a compelling, gritty and heart wrenching movie.
This is a tough book to read but once you get through the first chapter and enter Otis' life you will find this a hard book to put down. Iceberg Slim provides a window into the life of a Black family that like so many others at that time joined the migration to the 'promised land', the North. They struggled to survive in the most difficult of circumstances. It is a tragedy but a real portrayal of the inhumane suffering that one family and others in their time in history in the Chicago ghetto sought to overcome.
I'd never heard of this novel, but thought the synopsis was the complete opposite of anything Iceberg Slim would write about: a drag queen in the 1940s."Mama Black Widow" is the coming of age story of Otis Tilson, born in Mississippi, the youngest boy in a family of six that migrates to Chicago, unprepared for the harsh life that awaits.
I do think he laid blame in the wrong place though.Despite this misstep, there is a lot of action in this novel, making Mama Black Widow perfect for the big screen.
I think I have one or two more left, and then I'm done.Like most of Slim's work, very few punches are pulled.
As a matter of fact, I can't think of a single instance of Slim pulling a punch.
I found PIMP to be one of the bleakest, most depressing books I've ever read, and MAMA BLACK WIDOW is cut from this cloth.One word that I've never heard used to describe Slim's writing, however, is: humane.
I would like to suggest we start using this word for his work.
Keep in mind this book was written in the 1960's and that fact becomes even more astounding.Highly recommended!
This is a book that must br read.
But be warned: You will not find a happy ending here.If i need to give one bit of critique is that the final few chapters of this book slow down on the very intense and horriffic tone which for some might be a bit off putting.
But no matter what way you slice it from beginning to end this is an intense page turner that can be read in short successions or a sunday afternoon binge read.
even with the last few chapter slowing down heavily the entire bundle is a gripping read from front to back
Loved this production and probably wouldn't have reread it if not for it being a book club selection. The narrator gives life to all the characters without confusing the reader. This is a sad story of the life of a drag queen from before RuPaul's era. It's very well written with good character and plot development.Otis Tilson tells his life story to Iceberg Slim who captures it magnificently. This family, as many of the families during the Black Migration to the North were. Every single one meets a tragic end - so sad.
I remember reading this book ten years ago and enjoying it, but only retaining certain from details. Now, revisiting the story and characters again, I fully digest how completely helpless every single character was. There’s nothing to cheer about. There’s nothing bopeful and there’s frequent moments of extreme discomfort for the reader. I think that’s the sole reason why the story sticks to me so heavily cause you always remember the characters that were constantly dealt a bad hand, and in particular to these people, it’s the worst hand possible.
I've re-read this novel after many years and continue to love Iceberg Slim's gritty, great, poetic writing/language. The subject matter is brutal, honest and really tragic, written by a man who experienced and saw enough to give a voice (in this case to Otis )to those caught up in the dark underbelly of family and life in Chicago in the early 20th century. It's a masterpiece for a reason. Not for the faint hearted.
This was an excruciatingly graphic novel. It’s a bit hard to digest the first couple of chapters. I found myself stopping to gather my thoughts and to process the bits I read. Iceberg was a genius story teller. My heart ached for the entire family. Just when you think the tragedies have subsided you find there are even more waiting to occur.
Very, very sad.
A gritty and powerful story of Otis Tilson, a black drag queen trapped in a cruel queer ghetto underworld in the 1930's and 40's.
I would need a ledger to list all of the sadness and injustices in this book, but what struck me most was the hatred parents had for their own children.
I don't know if it stems from shame or the need to belittle someone more than you have been belittled, but it was heartbreaking all the same.One reviewer wrote "a gut-wrenching tale of the destruction of a family and the truest portrayal of homosexuality in the ghetto ever told.
A very depressing novel. Though there’s some errors in the writing and certain parts of the story can become torrid, it’s a solid book that shows life as someone homosexual in the 30’s-60’s. It also illustrates the struggles of a black family in Chicago during this time. It’s heartbreaking what the protagonist goes through and what happens to his family/friends. I really hated the mother.
Stupéfaction. Un livre poignant qui nous projette avec violence au coeur des réalités du Chicago raciste du début du XXème siècle. On souffre en silence avec Otis - le personnage principal - de la pauvreté, de la faim, de la discrimination, des violences verbales et physiques. Cette biographie retrace sans les atténuer les tiraillements, la haine et les rejets dont Otis a été victime sa vie entière sans que cela corrompe pour autant son grand coeur.Ce livre est à lire absolument.
Robert Beck delivered again. Being a Gen X black male - I know what I have experienced in this life. But to reflect on social issues that affected my generation and to see how they affected the previous generations, such as the baby boomers in this book is what draws me to it. It's a very good book, with many tragic figures.
This genre looking at life's dark side is not for everyone. However it is well written with a few editing errors. Iceberg Slim knows first hand the miseries of street life and relays them in captivating style.
Excellent text on the black male queer experience of the 70s
Powerful and tragicA great read. Gives painful and meaningful context to the struggles of Black Americans as well as those in the LGBTQ community.
Damn. Super intense, fucked up, emotional read.
Ah got tu git way frum white folks, an stay way." - Mama"Ain't yu uh blip, Mama dahlin'?
Them dirty white folk ain't gonna see yu fer uh munt.
He lets the sucker win and lose in a natural way to build him up for the kill and the shark also knows how to 'skill out' and make it look he 'lucked out'........sometimes two lemon players will pretend to be bitter rivals and play each other while a third or maybe a fourth member of the team will lay bets among the onlookers.
The godfather of black American crime fiction, hero to artists as diverse as Walter Moseley and Ice-T, and real life thug, Slim was the quintessential outlaw who, as Irvine Welsh once said, did for the pimp and street hustler what William Burroughs did for the junkie and Jean Genet for the thief.
Slim's pre-Civil Rights era Chicago is a pressure cooker of racism and exploitation, where the "paddies" (catch-all slur for white people, who are probably more Polish than Irish) running the police and trade unions relentlessly ghettoized and terrorized the city's black population.
I have no info to judge the veracity of that conceit, but its storytelling is awkward enough to make it credible.The protagoonist, Otis Wilson, is a gay transvestite who seem to be hemmed in by the pressure of his mother, who psychologically manipulates Wilson through most of his life.
But as storytelling, it's not very artful-- and the central relationship of the book, that describing the hold Wilson's mother had on him, I didn't think came across as psychologically plausible.
Iceberg Slim tells the story of a family plagued with so many of the horrors that plague the urban neighborhoods.
Poverty, prostitution, violence, murder, drug deals, and grittiness that few are able to explain in a way that others can understand are easily visualized as Iceberg Slim spins this tale.
He struggles to grasp the understanding of her actions, actions that have led to death and distance within the family.
There were times where the story was a bit drawn out, places that might have been trimmed a bit.
When I read Iceberg Slim's book "Pimp" I was so intrigued by the subject matter of his book "Mama Black Widow" that I had to read it.
Told by Otis to Iceberg, his account of how his family followed other African-Americans up North from the Deep South for a better life, shimmers with loss, deep passion and ghetto flash.
It's the honesty and boldness of his account that's really at the heart of "Mama Black Widow" and made it a book I'll always remember.
In a way I loved yet disliked the book (hence me giving it three stars) The characters I seemed to have "gave a crap" about the most was of course Otis, his father, Carol, and Soldier.
I despised the mother in this book.
When Dorcas's father and Otis meet it is the most funniest thing ever.
I wish there were more upsides to this book than downsides but all in all it was a great right and I would probably recommend this on to my fellow LGBTQ members.

Delicious, grotesque, explicit and real. The first book I've finished before the sun rose the next day. Reminded me of the famous Gordon Parks photo series about the Fontenelle family.People have also mentioned Hubert Selby Jr. and that's not far off. Instead of Tralala and Georgette we are given Sally, a humdinger in her own right. And wait 'til you meet Mama. Mama Black Widow emits an uncanny sensation in which you wonder how much Chicago (and the world at large) has changed and how much has remained the same.
Another bleak, gritty, and occasionally brutal tale of black inner-city life from the author of Pimp The Story of My Life (the only other Iceberg Slim novel I've ever read). "Mama Black Widow" tells the true story of Otis Tilson, a gay drag queen growing up in 1930s and '40s Chicago. Definitely not feel-good reading. Slim pulls no punches in his descriptions of violence and poverty and the book is full of colourful racist language.

