https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167497.Margins_of_Philosophy
I wasn't going to add this to the shelves, because I don't really have any intention of reading it any time soon, especially because I'm not at all in any way prepared to read Derrida.
But then I saw it was on that "Pompous Books to Read in Public" listopia - and well, if there's anything that's gonna make me add a book it's to spite that fuckin' Pompous Books to Read in Public list, which in and of itself is a pompous list.
These are pompous "hipster" reads??
Anyway, I won't be reading Margins of Philosophy in the near future, but fuck you, PBTRIP list.
The goal is to show that philosophy, while aiming at truth, uses metaphor in the extreme to not only attempt to strip language of context (and therefore contextual meaning) but by doing so to create its own mythology (or truth) totally devoid of context.The essay is a very effective criticism of any ability to provide "philosophical" truth and a strong criticism of Western philosophy, at least up to Kant.
The essay questions our ability to do philosophy at all and yet shows how everything we do is embedded in metaphor.
Derrida's essay on differance is, in my opinion, his single greatest acheivement. The way that he addresses the ontological differance and follows the trace even to that "original genesis" is truly something to behold. This is not the place to start for Derrida, but if you are interested in Derrida and Heidegger, this is the place to go.
Marvelous. Jackie is incredible. I wish I could read with the same delicacy and penetration
While metaphysics might understand itself as based in and dealing with concepts or to be occurring only at the level of ideas, in actuality, it is constantly deploying physical metaphors to guarantee the continuity of its presence.
Metaphysics appears to be practiced purely at the level of concepts and ideas, however in using metaphors in the constitution of its sense, it actually and covertly relies on a fabricated, metaphorically physical continuity or presence.
All of Derrida's thought takes place in a kind of 'reprojected space', or he derives the sense of his ideas in terms of a conceptual space where the events which define the the pre-understood coherence of metaphysics would be taking place.
The book follows dead ends as often as it follows invigorating insights; it reads more like a notebook en route to a book, rather than a final product.Maybe this was a deliberate choice, seeing how much the text emphasizes philosophy's incapacity to enclose itself and establish its disciplinary boundaries.
The intense, careful concern with philosophy's inadequacy just feels like the sterile mirror of its fantasy of adequacy.
In the long run, though, I just feel like there are better and more fruitful avenues of development than those Derrida takes here.
"Articolata in una serie di saggi apparsi tra il 1967 e il 1971, con l'eccezione di due inediti, l'opera affronta alcune questioni fondamentali:la natura dello spazio e del tempo, il significato della filosofia di Hegel in generale e della semiologia hegeliana in particolare, il problema dell'umanesimo e della fine della metafisica, la linguistica e la sua storia, la scrittura, la fenomenologia.Avvertenza del Curatore1.
Timpano2.
La différance3.
Ousia e grammé.
Nota su una nota di Sein und Zeit4.
Il pozzo e la piramide.
Introduzione alla semiologia di Hegel5.
Fini dell'uomo6.
Nota sulla fenomenologia del linguaggio8.
La filosofia innanzi la linguistica9.
A very important collection of essays from Derrida.The play of words, themes, and ideas disseminated and disseminating across these essays and his other works, linking them through the progressive enaction of deconstruction is well highlighted through this collective text.'Differánce' is, perhaps, a good place to begin reading Derrida. As good as one may get, perhaps, for deconstruction plays throughout our thought, and we find ourselves always already familiar with Derrida, though never now.
Derrida fiel a su análisis deconstructivista analiza la filosofía desde Aristoteles hasta Husserl. la estructura del lenguaje y su importancia para la filosofía, desde la gramática, etimológia hasta la metáfora.El libro es una serie de ensayos, el mejor en mi opinión "White Man Mythology" un libro muy interesante pero no de lectura fácil.
Well, after having taking a class by the man, "Derrida on Derrida", I thought this would be nostalgic. It wasn't. If anyone else has read any deconstructionism and wants my snarky review lemme know.
Brilliant work on Plato for example - takes quite a lot of re-reading, but brilliant in the insight of its thought - once you get there!
more or less translucent essays on hegel, heidegger, austin, et al. some are cited fairly often, contrary to all sense & decency.
This is alright. It contains the essay "Differance" which is key to the development of poststructuralism. Not as interesting as others.
Derrida goes to the edges of philosophy to do fundamental philosophy.
here derrida examines the thought of saussaure, rousseau, kant , hegel. nietzche. husserl and others in deconstructive way
Lo devo dire? Lo dico. In realtà di questo libro ci ho capito poco o niente. Ecco l'ho detto!
