https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40873273-snow-flower-and-the-secret-fan
My next thoughts are not necessarily critiques of the book, but of the way the Chinese thought: I had a real problem with hearing over and over how worthless a woman is if she cannot produce a son.
There were so many beautiful quotes that I thought I'd list my favorites:This thought is a real comfort to me: "Everyone knows that part of the spirit descends to the afterworld, while part of it remains with the family, but we have a special belief about the spirit of a young woman who has died before her marriage that goes contrary to this.
Unfortunately, the book also has two major problems: a boring story, and the use of cheap gimmicks instead of complex characterization.
Aside from being boring (the worst sin in fiction) I was also disappointed with the way she handled the intimacy of the friendship between the two women, using what I call the 'cheap and easy Hollywood method for showing intimacy.' In other words, she introduces sexual elements to show us just how 'close' these two women really are, rather than really taking us inside the complex world that is the relationship between two best girlfriends.
And there isn’t a damned thing they or I could do about it.Then I read this book and learn it is possible to change your foot size.
The inspiration for the book was nu shu, a written language developed by Chinese women and kept secret from men for hundreds of years.
“Will people like what I’ve written?” Yet, I had never thought about the struggle Lisa described to create and inhabit the internal emotional environment necessary to produce the actual words.I commend Lisa for giving us a realistic look at the treatment of and expectations for women in that day and age.
It's through remorse that the reader comes to know the true character of Lily, as she reflects upon a misunderstanding she had with her one true love.Beyond the reflection of Lily's relationship with Snow Flower, a girl she meets at the age of six when they are introduced by the local matchmaker and tied by contract to forever be known as "laotongs," or "old sames," this story provides a lesson in Chinese history and culture.
I think it would make an excellent selection for book clubs, given the vast number of elements to spark topics of conversation: Chinese culture--past and present; Mother-daughter relationships; Foot-binding; Arranged marriage; Female relationships; Lesbian relationships (?); Chinese history; Chinese foods; Chinese geography, etc.
The one relationship that I found endearing and one that transcends both time and culture is that of a true friendship.
A marriage is not made by choice and has only one purpose – to have sons." We see the girls grow up together and experience the joys of childhood friendship – laughing, dreaming, and mourning together.
The women's secret form of writing, or nu shu, begins with the communication between the little girls on the folds of a special fan that will provide a chronicle of their extraordinary relationship throughout their lives.
It was so non-compelling, who were these little mice of women, what were they up to, why should I care?
MAKE ME CARE.
My mind kept drifting off and by the time I was conscious of reading again I wouldn't know what had happened so I had to reread it again and again up unto the fourth rereading of the same pages.
(Exactly the same experience I had with Rushdie's Satanic Verses).
I thought it was probably me and not the book, so I downloaded the film.
I doubt there's a director (still) alive brave enough to make a film of that book.
The narrator also most of the way through the book alludes to something she’s going to tell the reader and it got to the point where, instead of following along with the story, I just wanted to see what she was going to reveal.I think that it’s worth it to read the paperback copy because of Lisa See’s notes at the end about the writing of this book,.
Also, the paperback has some discussion questions at the end which might come in handy as I read this book for my book club.The plot & characters did make me think about however women are regarded and what is considered beautiful in various cultures, including our own, can powerfully influence women’s lives.
This has got to be one of the most beautiful, yet heartbreaking books that I have ever read.
The subject matter is horrific but the story is truly engaging.The main storyline in this book is about the horrible patriarchal practise, foot-binding, that took place in China in the past.
Obviously foot-binding was a practice to control women, which was a point I made to a feminist I was talking to when a man suddenly interrupted our conversation and accused us of waging a war against men!Also, it’s so sad how culturally women were undervalued in Chinese society.
I actually wavered between giving this book a rating of 3 or 4 stars.
After learning throughout this book that she was a sensitive, caring, pledged lifelong friend; she becomes a cruel,selfish and judgemental harridan to Snow Flower.
These very factors were so antithetical to what was supposed to have been developed between these two women and what they had always professed would be their relationship, that it was difficult to continue the reading with the same attitude of enjoyment and appreciation.
She often glossed over some segments, seemingly in order to reach her next period of time.Despite these criticisms, I found this book often compelling with a level of anticipation for the reader.
I found it difficult to get invested in the characters who seemed somewhat flat to me.
Really, the strength of the book in my opinion was the detail it spent in developing an understanding of the cultural issues surrounding Chinese women and the custom of footbinding.
Which, of course, is horrible mutilation to a woman living in the 21st century Western world, but was the very epitome of beauty and sexual turn-on for 19th century Chinese.
So I would say it gets an A+ for effectively fleshing out that cultural way of life, but probably just a "B-" for characters.
My book club was more interested in talking about their trips to China than See's book.
I was fascinated, however, by the potential for beautiful prose but lists just don't do that for me.
The dynamics of the women's relationships were fascinating, reminiscent of The Joy Luck Club.
Why did See not correlate the inter-relationship between body, mind and spirit?
Still, I longed for Lily of the Golden Lilies to recognize that with her smart thinking she had the ability to lessen Snow Flower's burden, a bit of rice here, some smuggled cloth there,  cash, quilts.
I even thought Snow Flower could have been brought in as a concubine.
I LOVED  Snow Flower and the Secret Fan!  It was sad, yet fulfilling, true and honest, yet fictional. A truly moving story about the hardships of being a woman in nineteenth-century China. Yes, foot binding too. We'll get there. By the way, this is going to be  a buddy read review,  so get ready to read a lot of questions and answers! If you want to read the interview questions and answers, read them on my blog here, as it is too long to put into a Goodreads review.In nineteenth century China, a
If you want to read the interview questions and answers, read them on my blog here, as it is too long to put into a Goodreads review.In nineteenth century China, a girl from a poor family is paired into a lifelong female friendship match with a girl from a family of a higher social standing.
Not only does Snow Flower and the Secret Fan extensively cover the woman's place and life in pre-modern China, 
which is also a tale of hardship and involves some foot binding and other traditions, but in a completely different situation for the main character.
A spectacular book.I haven’t read anything this deeply affecting for quite a while {at least on the level of love and relationships}.
And the grace and depth of Lisa See’s storytelling had me contemplating about life and the deeds and the choices we make concerning our own lives, those that are made on our behalf and how all these affects those who we most cherish.
Lisa, however, goes beyond this, which she has offered in an heartfelt detail, to other aspects of the Chinese culture – especially those that of concern to women.Quite fascinating is the issue of nu shu, one of the central themes, which is described as the women’s secret writing.

he was fat, balding, and holding a little model of a foot's skeleton just the size of my own.
and then someone in the production process must have decided this wasn't realistic enough, so they had this cute little asian-girl actress come out and demonstrate, through blurry lens shots and muted screams, what this procedure might have felt like.
you know, how i would escape.
can you imagine what that would feel like?
AUGHHH!...consequently, i decided that to make myself feel better about the 50 majillion little asian girls a long time ago, i would just pretend that foot binding never happened.
While there are some better-written examples of this category, many of them seem to be written with the agenda of extolling the virtues and possibilities of close female friendship, perhaps as an alternative to traditional romance novels.
I was so unenamored that I found myself wondering at the authenticity of the historical setting -- how accepted were these ritualized female friendships, and did they really take precedence over the marital bond at times (e.g., a wife sharing a bed with her visiting sworn sister as opposed to her husband)?
Both of those novels fall into the category of overdone, agenda-driven female fiction.
Well the book Snow Flower and the Secret Fan by Lisa See, took me to 19th century China.
Lisa See brings to life a world that has long been gone, the landscape and food of 19th century China are reborn in Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. The setting of the book, and the imagery all add to the emotional rollercoaster you experience in this book.
But if you wish to know more about the life of Lily and Snow Flower you must read this book, it will make you smile and cry, but it will give you a sample of the incredible life of women in 19th century China.

Lisa See never disappoints me, and I loved my experience reading "Snow Flower and the Secret Fan". She truly is THE authority on historical fiction set in China. Although this is the book I've heard is the most "famous", I find "Shanghai Girls", "Dreams of Joy", and "Peony In Love" were a bit more to my tastes; I just connected more with those characters than I did with Snow Flower and Lily. That should not deter anyone from reading this novel, however - it is popular for a reason. It is extremely well-written, touchingly sad, and poignantly beautiful.
My grandmother grew up humbly in the 1920s with disciplinary feminine etiquettes given a higher preference over academia, whereas I was nurturing on a steady diet of Beverly Hills 90210 & Co. Our worlds were separated through an entire generation and I could never comprehend her anxiety towards my adulthood.Lisa See speaks of an earlier communal generation our evolved minds scorn or laugh away without giving a chance for a valid rationalization.
Several derogating customs imposed on women throughout centuries like child marriages, foot-binding, insulting display of conforming virginities, dowry regulations and many more have fortunately been banished from the current evolved civilization.
In our country, we call this type of mother love teng ai.
That is a mother's love.3.5 stars.
Highly recommended.The Story: In nineteenth-century China, when wives and daughters were foot-bound and lived in almost total seclusion, the women in one remote Hunan county developed their own secret code for communication: nu shu ("women's writing").
With the arrival of a silk fan on which Snow Flower has composed for Lily a poem of introduction in nu shu, their friendship is sealed and they become "old sames" at the tender age of seven.
The two girls write to each other in nu shu, the secret language of Chinese women, and their bond blossoms - together, they endure the painful practice of foot binding, the trials and tribulations of arranged marriages, and the joys and sorrows of motherhood.
At the age of 80, Lily recounts their shared lives, including the tragic incident that may have tore them apart.Many people praise two elements within Snow Flower and the Secret Fan: foot binding and nu shu.
If I were to discuss it in a book club setting, foot binding, nu shu, and the role of women in Chinese society would all serve as appetizers.
I need to spend a few days thinking and picking apart the book processing new things learned, deciding how it fits in with my world view, admiring prose, and analyzing if I really "believe" the story and accept the author's conclusions.
New things: nu shu a secret written language of women a thousand years old.
How relevant this simple lesson in the beginning of the book was to the story that played out.Analyzing: I did believe this story and all of it's layers.
And I believe in love and it's power to shape and direct our lives.
Community leader and novelist Lisa See’s Snow Flower and the Secret Fan explores the Chinese culture during the early 19th century while conveying the conflict between family ties and love and acceptance.
Lily and Snow Flower undergo the process of foot-binding together as they learn “not just the physical trials,” but the “more torturous pain of the heart, mind, and soul,” (See 46) while they realize what it takes to become a marriageable woman.
In crafting Snow Flower and the Secret Fan, Lisa see portrays the human need of love and commitment.
In time both women go on to produce more children, and when they have daughters, plan that the girls will also be laogong.Through it all - as Snow Flower's difficulties come to weigh heavily on her - Lily is constantly counseling her best friend to behave correctly, be a good wife, obey her husband, placate her mother-in-law, and continue to get pregnant.
作为一个以现代汉语为母语的人，女书对我来说完全是另一种语言，遥远，神秘，深邃，也是一种亘古自有的女权主义体现as a native speaker of mandarin, nvshu(nyu shoo)/female script/女書 is utterly a different language to me, time-distant, mysterious and profound, and it's been their own immutable embodiment of feminism of the lady ancestorsPS: my mothertongue is shanghainese, quite diff from mandarin though it's a branch of modern chinese
Women to this day are subjected to body type slurs when the new norms of perfection aren't met by them.
Lily is destined for something out of the ordinary and that happens to be being "old same" with a girl from upper class by the name Snow flower.
This story is gentle reveal of relationship between two women who met when they were just girls and made a contract to be soul-friends for the rest of their lives.
Lily adores Snow Flower from the very beginning though the class difference between the two keep bothering her.
The idea that not only were you not supposed to leave one area of your house, but actually could not go more than a few steps because of your bound feet, is horrifying to me.
Someone bucking convention, a women who refuses to have her feet bound, say, or leaves or husband and strikes out alone.
That isn't something that COULD happen here, unless she wanted it to be a fantasy.
? Part of me wanted them to not do many of the things they did.
Because they are real people represented here, and not fairy tale characters.
At the age of 7 Lily and Snow Flower are paired together as "old sames" and learn to correspond with the secret writing of women, nu shu.
Lily is now eighty and is writing about this friendship that begins early on in their foot binding process and endures for decades before there is a painful rift.This is definitely the best I've read from Lisa See, and I'm glad I finally read it.
Even better, I'm glad to have read it when I had an afternoon to devote to it, because I didn't want to leave off reading it more than I absolutely had to.
I need to spend a day or two reflecting on the story to complete this review!OK-Here is my review: This is a fascinating, well researched book about the lives of two girls who grew up in China in the 19th century during a time when women were not respected or cherished, and painful footbinding was part of their growing up years.
I must say that one of the unexpected turns that took place was when Lily jumped to the wrong conclusion about a message she had from Snow Flower.
Lily mistook what Snow Flower said to her in a message.
