https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26156203-the-crown-s-game
She was the sun, and he was a mere rock, drawn in by her gravity. He needed to be closer, to feel her magic, to touch . . . her. Anyone for another boring, fluffy fantasy full of magic and murder instalove, love triangles and ballgowns?I'm just going to get the ultimate, overarching problem out of the way first - this book is so so boring. To be honest, I didn't expect that. The blurb alludes to the love triangle and romantic elements so I was prepared for googly eyes and some fast-paced thrill
Anyone for another boring, fluffy fantasy full of magic and murder instalove, love triangles and ballgowns?I'm just going to get the ultimate, overarching problem out of the way first - this book is so so boring.
The blurb alludes to the love triangle and romantic elements so I was prepared for googly eyes and some fast-paced thrills, but The Crown's Game simply lacks any tension.In this world - a fantasy version of Tsarist Russia - there can be only one Imperial Enchanter, one person with magical skill to stand by the Tsar's side.
For the winner of the game, there would be unimaginable power.For the defeated, desolate oblivion.The Crown’s Game was not one to lose. Awesome. Great. That's an excellent thing to keep in mind. Do. Not. Lose. Except someone forgot to tell the main characters cause nobody seems to give a shit about winning the game the instant their nether regions start tingling in the presence of the opposite sex.Having a Russian setting and involving magic, one cannot help but compare this to Leigh Bardugo's
For the winner of the game, there would be unimaginable power.For the defeated, desolate oblivion.The Crown’s Game was not one to lose.
If you think you can escape the love triangle here, think again, and this book is even worse because it's just so bloody boring.I used to write really long reviews for books, ripping them apart, criticizing everything that is wrong, but it just seems to tiring to do so these days because I seem to have the same fucking criticism for every quasi-high-fantasy that comes out.
These days, I can't even be fucked to actually hate a book such as this because I'm just so tired of it all.
Spoiler free review and spoiler discussion: https://youtu.be/1JqZYOOBxwUOverall really enjoyed it, only had a few issues. Watch my review to find out more!
They’re just there hunting one another and pulling off magic tricks they think will kill their adversaries.
Nikolai tries to kill Vika with birds made of stones for his first round and Vika tries to drown him in the water in front of spectators who think it’s a magic trick for their own pleasure.All I wanted to say to them was ‘Come on!
For Pasha, it’s insta-love.
Sadly, Vika has her insta-love moment with Nikolai.
There’s a lot of showing, but very rarely do the characters show their feelings, and if they do, it’s not a very deep moment.
I had a very severe suspicion that I would like this book when the first chapter started off in a bakery..
It never skimped on details and I think that made the book more REAL.And the characters?
If you say "game" I start thinking of violent things like The Hunger Games.
It was more like "impress the Tsar with your magic skills"...not actually "blast each other's heads off." Which saddened me a bit?
(view spoiler)[ I actually don't even think Vika loves either Nikolai or Pasha??
I so rarely read nicely detailed worlds like this, so I shall screech from the onion shaped Russian rooftops that I approve.
i am such a fan of russian history, so i think that was the highlight of the book for me.
as for ‘the night circus’ part, the only thing in common was that both stories focus on two people who find themselves in the middle of a competition to prove who is the greatest enchanter/magician.
i love ‘the night circus’ with all my heart, so i was relived that i didnt find myself comparing the two books at all.
it didnt keep me from liking the story, but i think it would have been much more enjoyable had the writing style been a bit different.
I WAS NOT EMOTIONALLY PREPARED FOR THIS WHY WAS THERE NO WARNING.This was definitely one of the best books I've read so far this year.
I went into it expecting something like the Hunger Games, but was pleasantly surprised at how it turned out to be more of a gorgeous magical adventure than some stressful fight.
This might be the first time that I not only didn't mind a love triangle, but liked what a complicated web it turned into.
About 3/4 of the way through I was distraught because there was just no way for everyone to get the ending they deserved and I LOVED ALL OF THEM SO MUCH.
I loved this book so much!
Pasha is best friends with Nikolai and he has no idea what Nikolai is until later on.
Pasha and Nikolai see Vika in the forest one day using magic.
Pasha wants to find out who she is because he ends up with a little crush.
I loved the feelings between Nikolai and Vika though.
You have to read the book and see.
I really hope with the ending, the next book is going to be really good and go the way I want it to go.
White moon, angel moon.Blood moon, demon moon.  Even knowing the mixed reviews this book actually has, I wanted to go into this book without caring about them and not bothering to pay attention to them. It was hard, but I managed to do it. The Crown's Game involves magic and magical elements, involves killing one or the other to become an imperial enchanter, and it even has a Russian setting! Sadly, none of that was something I enjoyed. The Crown's Game is known as a fantasy novel, but in real
Sure, Nikolai and Vika have magic abilities and are set to kill each other using their power, but the problem is that first, the whole game is cut off without them even realizing because they don't even try to kill the other.
Because of what Vika thinks about Nikolai, Pasha getting in the way, and Nikolai not wanting to tell his best friend the truth, both enchanters forget about the whole game and what they're meant to do that they both fall for each other without admitting their feelings.
What a wonderfully magical and whimsical book – don’t be fooled though, it ripped my heart in half.
Like um, no my feelings need to be repaired.
A little prior to the halfway point, there was almost a second mystery that unwound itself and brought some really  IMPORTANT  information to life and I’m  positive  it will play a large part in the second book.So if you managed to reach to conclude of the story, you would have been blessed with the heartbreak that is the ending.
I still don’t understand why that needed to happen, I mean like  WHY CAN’T WE JUST ALL BE HAPPY??!!???!
but no obviously Evelyn Skye doesn’t like to see me without tears.
Wow, talk about going into a book expecting to be bored as fuck and trashing the shit out of it....and then coming out screaming and loving the crap out of it and screaming so much BECAUSE AHAHAHAHA this was great.So, I've read The Hunger's Game, but never once, did it occur to me, that THIS BOOK, is literally just like that book.
I never bothered to check what this book was about and just started reading with my lowest expectations and I WAS SO SURPRISED BY HOW MUCH I LOVED IT!Pasha is literally like Rhy. He reminded me so much of him.
Just know, this is my FAVOURITE YA book of all time...more to come on a video review soon!
I.... I barely know what to say right now... so here goes ~ a mess of words and emotions. Don't worry, this is spoiler free.  "Imagine, and it shall be. There are no limits."  First of all, the elephant in the room. The plot of this book is nearly IDENTICAL to the Night Circus. Maybe I should rant about that but you know what.. I didn't really care? I love both books so I didn't mind the nostalgia. There are parts I liked more about each of the books- but I just found myself savoring this book t
The plot of this book is nearly IDENTICAL to the Night Circus.
Plus, this one is going to be a trilogy - so I see the series spinning off drastically from where the Night Circus ended.
I just need to point out all the reasons I loved this book.
(BRB going to watch Anastasia now...) And not only is the magic system here lush, it is completely unique and imaginative.
The writing itself was every bit as beautiful as The Night Circus - the prose, descriptions..
Yes, there was a "bit" of insta-love, but it was not handled the way a YA book typically handles it.
In the meantime, training so that she’s the best Imperial Enchanter she can be.Nikolai is an eighteen year old orphan who was taken in at a young age by cruel Countess Galina in order to train him to use his magic for the future Crown’s Game.
Unlike Vika, he’s always been aware he would have an opponent for the Imperial Enchanter title.Pasha is prince, future heir to the throne, and also happens to be Nikolai’s best friend.
And finds himself falling for the new arrival in town, a peculiar girl with seemingly magical abilities.The story is atmospheric with deep world-building and strong characters.
Well...for a book about magic The Crown's Game was decidedly unmagical.Here on Goodreads I ask people to answer a challenge question when they send me a friend request, the question being: What are some of your biggest bookish pet peeves? The answers are usually pretty similar and include some of the following:- Insta-love- Love triangles- Characters who seem to lose all sense of reason or rational brain function when they meet another character they consider “hot”- Lackluster worldbuilding- Bor
Well...for a book about magic The Crown's Game was decidedly unmagical.Here on Goodreads I ask people to answer a challenge question when they send me a friend request, the question being: What are some of your biggest bookish pet peeves?
The answers are usually pretty similar and include some of the following:-	Insta-love-	Love triangles-	Characters who seem to lose all sense of reason or rational brain function when they meet another character they consider “hot”-	Lackluster worldbuilding-	Boring plot-	Bad writing and over-the-top metaphorsWell my friends, I’m here to tell you that The Crown’s Game contains every single one of these things.
1 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Genre: historical fantasy, AU, YAStuff: Imperial Russia, magicFail: the story and its fillingPOV: 3rd-person, multiLove-Geometry: pissed me offQuote-Core:   “There are things more dangerous than a little magic.”  Buddy-read with Vera and Nastassja. This May was cruel to me: bad book after
'Cause a banana skin is not a banana itself.This story includes real things from Russian history, Russian words, names and traditions, but they aren't always correct and, what's more important, they lack flesh, power and soul.
Renata and Ludmila don't look as people without rights.The Crown's Game is rather a patchwork quilt which is made of random facts and stereotypes.Look:— Until XX century Russia had no such a name as Victoria (Vika), 'cause it wasn't in our church calendar.
In short, Vika has no personality, Pavel has no spine, Nikolai has no balls.
❝I hereby swear my loyalty to the tsar,And promise to abide by the rules of the Game,A duel of enchantment, until a winner is declared.To this and all traditions here before established, I commit myselfAs an enchanter in the Crown's Game.❞  Rating: {★ ★ ★ }Sadly, I wasn't too blown away with The Crown's Game. This book was one of my anticipated releases of May and I even met Evelyn Skye at YallWest! You could not imagine how disappointed I was to have to rate The Crown's Game only three stars.
The premise and the characters were the exact same: two rival mentors who have been training their protégés since they were young to prepare them for a competition to the death by showcasing their magic and outdoing the other until eventually, only one is left standing.If this was The Night Circus, Nikolai would be Marco and Vika would be Celia.
I feel like unless you read The Night Circus, you wouldn't recognize the resemblance but it is one of my favorite books of all time.
However as your Russian representative and a member of the Tsar's Guard, I can assure you that Evelyn Skye has executed the Russian culture, language, and mentality to a T.If you get a manuscript or an ARC, please be advised that Evelyn has added on the "a" at the end of the last names of the female characters in the book, but the change was made after the ARCs were already printed.A note about Russian last names:The endings of surnames are a key not only to a person's nationality but also to their gender.
Real rating:  3.5 Buddy read with Red King What i liked - I really enjoyed the plot.
I enjoyed reading about what the two enchanters made as they were all beautiful things.
- This book has multiple POVs which can be good or bad but I liked it in this.
Also, the chapters are really short (71 chapters) so if you don’t like one person, you don’t have to deal with their POV for a long time.- There was a plot twist I didn’t see coming which was impressive because in YA books, it’s easy to guess plot twists especially in the first book of a series.
Buddy Read with who dat aka big boy aka CaitlinWow. It's been around 24 hours and I still am unable to put The Crown's Game into the words I want to.
If I hadn't been reading it with Cait I probably would have DNF'ed it.
One thing I can say about this book is that the beginning is slow.
It is so horrifically slow that I was frustrated with our characters.
Ultimately, I need to be put in my glass castle (my big boys will understand) and be held by someone because damn.
Definitely one of the best books I've read of 2016.
Update 01/31/2017: I decided to remove a star and change the rating to 4 stars. Been thinking about it and realized that while the book was indeed great, it still didn't feel like a 5 star read for me.*** “Imagine, and it shall be.There are no limits.” I have a confession to make. So I have a shelf here on GR named "Not-Interested", and The Crown's Game was under the "Not-Interested" shelf... *gasp* yep. I have sinned in my past life. But then, Cait read it and loved it and recommended it to me,
Been thinking about it and realized that while the book was indeed great, it still didn't feel like a 5 star read for me.***
But then, Cait read it and loved it and recommended it to me, so I was like "fine, will try it" AND LOOK WHAT HAPPENED.
Great.The Crown's Game is Evelyn Skye's debut novel and there are a few flaws here and there, which is expected.
Yep. This book has so many mixed reviews and I can see some of the problems other readers have with it, but honestly, the plot, writing and the characters were just so good that I just didn't care at all!
I absolutely loved everything about this; from the historical setting in 19th century Russia, the imaginative magic system, the focus on the royal hierarchy and the plethora of equally lovable character.
I already want more from this world!The Crown's Game begins in Vika's perspective and the reader is immediately immersed into this strange, ancient world.
Skye exhibits a brilliance for creating flawed and yet lovable characters as each and every person introduced had a side to them that evoked my empathy and endearment.The Crown's Game, that the title refers to, does not begin until nearly a quarter of the way through the text.
There are things more dangerous than a little magic This book was amazing! I wish it didn't have to end. Fans of The Night Circus, this is what we were looking for! Vika Andreyeva and Nikolai Karimov are two enchanters who were chosen by tsar to participate in the Crown’s Game. I should note that it`s a very rare case when two enchanters are born at the same time. Both enchanters don`t know about each other, until it`s time to fight in the Game. They also don't know much about the competition,
Vika Andreyeva and Nikolai Karimov are two enchanters who were chosen by tsar to participate in the Crown’s Game.
The Imperial Enchanter will need all of Russia’s magic, especially since Bolshebnoie Duplo is no longer as potent as it was when the people of our country still adhered to the old ways.
Personally, I`m not a fan of love triangles, but in the end I warmed to this character.For a debut novel I think this book was very impressive.
And I also look forward to the sequel BECAUSE YOU CAN`T END A BOOK LIKE THAT!!!
This book was just so much damn fun. Very excited to read the sequel!
I don't even want to touch other Evelyn's failures concerning Russian culture (and the were enough of those) but for one I can't ignore: Bolshebnoe Duplo ( a magical hollow) I read.
Just come on, how many stories about perfect beautiful people who fell in love from the first sight do we need to read and hate, to hint authors it's time to start creating flawed characters with something more to their name than good looks and lusty glances.
I was reading the book.
...WHAT?!This sounds like a mix between three of my favorite books: Throne of Glass, A Darker Shade of Magic, and Shadow and Bone!
How is that even freaking possible?
What is this witchery?
Whatever, I want it.
Like, this very second would be greatly appreciated.
I feel as though I've been searching for a book like this formonthsever.
HOLY MOTHER OF MODERN LITERATURE, I NEED THIS BOOK RIGHT NOW.
Also, just behold that cover art.
It's rare to find an amazing cover paired with an equally phenomenal synopsis.
The hype is real with this one, you guys.
2016 can't come soon enough. This book looks amazing. Hype don't let me down.
I absolutely adored this and cannot wait for the second book!
2.5 stars.  Vika packed the clay from the former pitcher in her hands. It hardened into a ceramic cannonball. “I don’t fancy dying.”Her father emptied the bottle of kvass. “Then the only option is, you cannot.”  I think “bittersweet” is the perfect word to describe this book. Both with how I feel about it, and the general tone and atmosphere of the story. Set in historical Russia, you can tell the author is passionate about the history and sticks very close to what is real, even if she adds her
Vika and Nikolai do not know each other, and would never have believed that one day they would be battling each other in the deadly Crown’s Game for the same position they both desperately want.With the Ottoman Empire and the Kazakhs threatening invasion, the Tsar needs a powerful enchanter by his side.
A boy borne from nothing, struggling to survive in the shadow of his best friend who also happened to be the heir of an empire, and needing to win the Game so he could one day serve and protect Pasha the way he had always dreamed.
3.25 /5 starsVideo Review: https://youtu.be/n14Lre-W30MWhen I wasn't reading this book I was thinking about it and when I was reading it I was driven to read more of it to find out what was going to happen next.
This book has an element of drama to it which I know people won't enjoy and even though it isn't a huge pro for me I did find myself enjoying that aspect.
Now even though I enjoyed the idea of the drama I definitely did not like the love triangle mess going on.
A HUGE pro for my was the setting.
I think the insta love/ love triangle lowered my rating for it BUT I did devour this book.
