https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15101.Blackberry_Wine
This lovely story about Jay & Jackapple Joe is one of my all time favourite books. I could read it over & over again.A story filled with nostalgia, a yearning for wonderful childhood memories, magic and trust. Jay goes on a journey of faith and self discovery, learning how to trust in himself and others, believe in magic and that anything is possible as he once did as a child. With a little help from Joe and his 'specials'. A wonderful heart warming tale that is a pleasure to read.
2018 Reading Challenge: fruit or vegetable in the titleI’m a huge Harris fan, but somehow this is the first of her novels I’ve read with a main male protagonist. I don’t typically gravitate to these types of books. RTC but I loved this as much as any of her other books. She’s a beautiful storyteller
Guided by a kind of Joe's ghost, Jay leaves London and moves to a little rural village in France where he buys an abandoned farm and where he starts writing again, inspired by his mysterious neighbour, Marisa.This is a book about haunted lives, unfinished stories and the chance to change your own life and atone for your past mistakes.Magic, wine, faith or simply luck and coincidence.
I was in love with the bond of love between old man Joe and young man Jay. This is a book about the young man growing into maturity, into a man who can love a woman and a child and protect what he values.
It is about the value of the past to the creation of the future; respect and love for the land and diversity of species.
Lovely woman, but more than her share of conveniently dead in her life and rather iffy taste in men, although let's hope that we are looking at a brighter future for her.
Truly, I just loved this book.
Столь восторженные отзывы, как 9 лет назад, я уже не оставляю, но книга бесспорно хороша и тема вина очень моя.
И отлично читалось в отпуске на берегу Испании :) _____________"Ежевичное вино" - шестой роман Джоанн Харрис в моем зачете :)Главный герой - англичанин-писатель Джей Макинтош, повинуясь чарам "Особых" вин, созданных эксцентричным садовником Джо, и детских воспоминаний, приезжает в уже знакомый нам городок Ланскне-су-Танн, чтобы разобраться в своем прошлом и найти своё будущее.Я в восторге!
Вот уж не ожидала, что буду в таком восторге.
Шоколад всегда казался мне слишком затасканным, приторным на грани фола, Ежевичное же вино - как раз по мне!
The main characters are Joe an eccentric old man who brews wine, gardens, makes pouches of herbs that protect against bullies layman's alchemy he calls it and Jay a young lad who admires Joe and learns much of life from him the story follows Jay into adulthood in alternating chapters.If you want reminding of long hot summers, best friends and bike rides when we used to see magic in everyday things then treat yourself to Blackberry Wine.ps Today I was getting my last bits for Christmas and standing alone on the shelf a bottle of 'Fleurie'.....
Layman's alchemy?
In Blackberry Wine, Marise d'Api is the strong female lead, writer Jay Mackintosh's unfriendly, closed off, and mysterious neighbor.
In the latter, the elixir is fruit-based wine, specifically a set of vintage '75s, which Jay Mackintosh finds in the remains of Pog Hill decades ago when he returns the summer following his unannounced disappearance.Five Quarters of the Orange tells a multi-generational story with lies, secrets, family database, but with redemption, love, healing, and perseverance shining throughout.
Relatives to Marise (similar to the neighbors in Five Quarters of an Orange) were cold and unwilling to be understanding, believing only what they want to believe.The only character that was well-written for me was his childhood friend during his Pog Hills days.
This time, though, I read it practically all in one go -- with, yeah, a glass of wine.
Joanne Harris' prose is always easy to read, really clear, and I can believe in the characters she creates at least enough to carry on to the very last page.
Just normal enough that you can believe it's true for a while.
Just close enough to coincidence or wishful thinking that if you can't step over into fantasy, you don't have to.I don't think I'm likely to reread any of Joanne Harris' books: I guess to me they're a bit like chocolate, or a bottle of wine.
This is a beautiful book, written by the author who later wrote Chocolat.
As an adult and established author, Jay escapes his stifling life in England by buying a small cottage in Lansquenet, France, where he not only becomes a gardener, but writes another book, solves a mystery when he falls in love with a local woman scorned by most of the town, babysits this woman's daughter and goat, and is visited by the ghost of the late Joe, as well as an old girlfriend from London, who, unfortunately for Jay, is alive and still controlling and vicious.Beautiful book.
Even though the chapters are short, fifty-seven pages is more than I want to wait for a story to get interesting.Blackberry Wine describes the life of Jay, a one-hit-wonder in the literary arena who fell victim to the freshman curse and now lives as a writer of trashy sci-fi novels and part-time fantasy-conference attendee.
Jay’s lack of maturity and poor decision-making ability mark him as a victim, a martyr, so I had trouble caring about him.This book jumps back and forth in time about every other chapter which I found distracting.
On sudden impulse, Jay buys the property without seeing it first, packs a duffle bag, his typewriter and a few bottles of wine he managed to retrieve from Joe's abandoned home and leaves his urban London life to farm and to write another novel.I loved the few references to Vianne and Roux (Chocolat); I also loved the fact that while a strong woman character enters the story, this is the story of Jay, a male character who is struggling to find himself and to put his friendship with Joe into perspective without the feeling of betrayal at not being able to say good-bye.
This time wine replaces chocolate as Harris's magic elixir, and the newcomer to the village of Lansquenet sur Tannes is Jay Mackintosh, a 37-year-old has-been writer from London.
Fourteen years have passed since Jay's debut novel, Jackapple Joe, won the Prix Goncourt.
Since then, he has been churning out B-novels under a pseudonym; he currently lives with his girlfriend, Kerry, an aggressively successful 25-year-old celebrity journalist.
After downing a bottle of Joe's '75 Special, which he has been hoarding for 24 years, Jay decides to buy the house sight unseen.
Leaving Kerry in London, Jay moves to Lansquenet and starts a new rural life, beginning to write under his own name again.
When I compare this offering from Joanne Harris to her other books, it is just a meh response. I was disappointed. It flipped back and forth between 1975 and 1999 too rapidly. I couldn't really get into either period. The ending was abrupt, like the author herself was tired of the whole thing.I did like some of the characters - Joe & Rosa. It was nice to be in the company of Josephine and Roux again. And there was lots of wine and food to be enjoyed.


Коли читаєш останні сторінки з посмішкою, полегшенням і впевненістю, що у всіх нас рано чи пізно все буде добре.Бо все, що робиться, - на краще.Бо не соромся попросити допомоги.І не бійся себе захищати. І чесно зізнавайся, чого ти хочеш, – не комусь, собі зізнавайся.Як правило, з кожної книжки у мене є ціла низка цитат. Але не з цієї – цього разу лише одна:«Лучше быть его последним, чем его первым», – сказала пляшка вина, від імені якої ведеться розповідь😊 А вино, якому 37 років, напевно щось знає, правда?)
Я ніколи не хотіла в Париж, але в книжках Харріс оці маленькі французькі містечка і села змальовані з такою любовю і з таким натхненням, що дуже захотілося там побувати.Отож, кілька бутилок "особливого" вина розповідають історію одного письменника Джея Макінтоша.
Переживаючи творчу кризу, він купляє маленький будиночок з виноградниками в містечку Ланскне (тому самому, де свого часу жила Вівєн і де відбувалися події книжки "Шоколад", тож кілька відомих імен зустрінуться;).В льосі Джей знаходить вже згадані бутилки вина, яе було зроблене ще в часи дитинства Джея, і, з кожним келихом цього особливого вина Джей згадує своє дитинство і дивного старенького Джо, який відкрив Джею не тільки світ дерев, овочів, ягід та таємниць їх вирощування, а й світ повсякденної звичайної домашньої магії...
Похоже, у Харрис такой фирменный стиль - маленькие городки, Франция, обыденное волшебство, цыгане на заднем плане, матери-одиночки с дочками, непонятые окружающими, и несколько секретов в шкафу.
Во всяком случае, *Ежевичное вино* и *Шоколад* этим всем очень похожи.*Ежевичное вино* - роман взросления.
Запоздалого возможно, но взросления.
Главный герой пытается разобраться с собой (уже довольно длиииительное время) и в себе, в чем ему, незадачливому английскому писателю, очень помогает одна французская деревенька, парижанка с рыжеволосой дочуркой, несколько бутылок фруктового вина, обладающего волшебными свойствами, и вздорный астральный старик-шахтер, посвященный в магию семян (и жизни).
Милая книжка.
Летняя и легкая.
Такая себе кавер-версия "Вина из одуванчиков".
I read this book as a recommendation from my monthly book club.
As someone who might be described as enjoying a glass of wine (perhaps two..), I was looking forward to reading it.
I loved the characters, the tiny town in France, the bottles of wine that "spoke" (I could relate to that), to Jay and to the belief that all good things can come from a little magic.
Because I so enjoyed the movie Chocolat (I had not read the book), I went into this book thinking that it would have the same kind of magic/mystery about it.
When you read this book, you won't be either!
Joanne Harris paints a picture of intense summers of childhood alternating with farming life in a small French village, interwoven with threads of magic. Unfortunately the regret and ennui of the main character permeate the majority of the book, which made my experience as a reader ho hum.It all came together with a satisfying ending. However, on reflection, the one-sided negative portrayal of several women characters in the book leaves a bit of an unpleasant aftertaste.
After enjoying Chocolat so much, I couldn't wait to read another book by this author, but I remember being very disappointed in this book. Not quite in the same league as Chocolat or even Five Quarters of an Orange.
I don`t get the alleged magic of this book. Boring... So I`m out, having read about 130 pages.
I don`t get the alleged magic of this book. Boring... So I`m out, having read about 130 pages.
Konusu ve kitabın yazım fontları beni biraz itiyordu, bu yüzden kitaba bir türlü başlayamamıştım ama sırası gelmişti ve okunması gerekiyordu artık.
Kitap, Jay adında bir yazarın çocukluğuna olan özlemini anlatıyor aslında.
Bunun yanı sıra yine o köyde tanıştığı kendi yaşıtı bir çok arkadaşıyla geçirdiği maceraları okuyoruz.1999 yılında ise Jay evli bir kitap yazarıdır fakat hala Joe'nın kendisine neden haber vermeden evinden ayrıldığını merak ediyor.
Gerçekten kitabın basımı ve yazım fontu beni biraz korkutsa da başladım ve bitirdim.
Kitap benim için çok iyi değildi ama beğenmedim de diyemem.
Beklentimden iyiydi ama yine de eksikleri vardı bana göre fakat kitaplığımda tutacağım bir kitap diyebilirim.
What a wonderful read this is. Thoroughly enjoyed both the plot and the narration of 'Blackberry Wine'. A punch of intoxicating senses which vapouriser's the encantation of the past at every page turn, from page one to the last page. One can almost taste the wine bubbling and working it's magic on the reader too. Super. 'I've had me fill now and bah gum.It tasted ta' right. Hope thee enjoy thy'sen with'dabook, twa's a bloody good read!'.
Writer's block has building blocks and built these walls around me I don't feel lucky in hereburied in my headI'm seeing red and nothing else- mad all the time by waterparksI could't get these lyrics out my head the entire time whilst reading this book
Не одном дыхании..."Ты не можешь!" - "Нет такого слова."
Meh. Disappointing. I found the story predictable, the characters underdeveloped, and the theme a familiar one. I hear happy to finish the book and get on to a new book.
Stunning. Magical and compelling. A book I didn't want to end!
I loved this book ! So many unpredictable spins in the story that keep you interested to fin out more and more. But mostly, I liked the sense of magic that was in the book ; that essential sense that gives us hope and courage to do new things.
Conhecemos personangens "marcantes", como Marise e Rosa, outras não tão marcantes, Zeth e Kerry, mas ficamos com a impressão que podia ter sido servido algo mais delas.
No fundo, todos ficaram entregues à condição de acessório e foi passada a ideia de que nada mais importava senão Jay e os seus devaneios Joeísticos.A subida de Jay nas impressões gerais da população de Lasquenet, contudo, é interessante e chegamos a sentir-nos embebidos por toda aquela calma e "fofoquice", tão típicia de lugares pequenos.Quanto a Lasquenet propriamente dita, poderá ser uma qualquer aldeia junto a um rio, com pretensões de crescimento, carregada de nostalgia e com medo desse mesmo desenvolvimento.
