https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11563.Danse_Macabre
Stephen King writes about three decades of the horror genre in various media.
I have trouble giving a shit what Stephen King thinks about obscure B-movies made a couple decades before I was born that would seem hokey by today's standards.Longwindedness aside, I did find the book informative and it added things to my watch list.
Also, King shat on John Saul a few times.
Things to ponder.You know what's not as fun as reading horror fiction or watching horror movies?
Reading about what someone else thinks about them for one hundred pages too many!
There were a lot of references to books that I hadn't read yet, and these sections I tried to skim so that I could get the idea without the spoilers, but that wasn't always possible.
I do hate spoilers, but I can't hold it against King too much, I knew that was a possibility when I picked this up.
But the books that I have read, I now have a new and deeper appreciation for.
King sees things in such a different way than I do, and so getting his perspective is fascinating.
Highly recommend reading this.
Support your local used book stores!
I would love if he decided to release an updated version where he covers all the important horror books or movies in the last 30 years or so, because he clearly still has an avid passion for both, as evident on his twitter.Be prewarned - King is spoilerific in here.
I loved how he had quotes and excerpts from a lot of these authors discussing their relevant works and the horror genre itself.One of the most boring parts of the book, for me anyway, is when he talks about radio and television.
In the meantime, I picked up a battered paperback copy of King’s long-form essay on the horror artform itself, “Danse Macabre.” Originally published in 1981, King wrote this book at the urging of his then-editor at the time, Bill Thompson, who told him it would be a good idea to do a genre study in the hopes that it would answer a bunch of commonly asked questions from fans and interviewers.
And I wonder like hell how King would have contrasted the original movie version of “The Thing” with John Carpenter’s truly horrifying remake.But despite that feeling that the expiration date has long passed on this book, it still has some value to anyone interested in the idea that horror fiction is more than just cheap thrills.
A different read from what is normally expected from King, but enjoyable nonetheless. His ideas about writing and also the mechanisms and origins of the horror genre. I still think about this often when I am reading a horror story. Now that I have read some of his influences like Blackwood and Lovecraft, I think I have a greater appreciation for Danse Macabre.
When the King of Horror writes about the Horror culture then it's a book bound to be perfect.Um,almostwell, it was, but now it's a bit outdated.King writes mainly about horror films and books from the 1950's up to the 1970'sSince then it's been more than thirty years and thousands of films and books were released and published since then so; he talks about things in the past.With the books it's fine, because you can find all these books he recommends still available today.
Yes it's an older book and not up to date with modern movies...but hearing King speak of memories of horror and his views on movies and books of older day seemed like a priceless idea to me.While some areas are of course interesting, there is so much repeated and off-topic rambling that sneaks in.
I wasn't interested in the TV section as much but will say King perhaps did the best there with staying on point and with the right touch of brevity.
I’m kind of in the middle with this one, I thoroughly enjoyed some parts and other parts left me feeling quite bored.
One of the things I enjoyed the most is that it felt like King was sitting in my living room and we were just chatting and sharing opinions.
It’s like he was talking directly to the reader and it was great.
I also really enjoyed the sections on horror books and movies but the sections on radio and television just didn’t capture my attention in the same way.
I’d also REALLY love to see an updated version of this book but featuring horror from the 90s on!
This is my favorite Stephen King book--I've read it considerably more times than any of his other works.
I don't think it's any secret what makes this book so enjoyable--it's really what makes all of his books work--his storytelling power.
I tried to see as many of the films and read as many of the books he discussed as I could.
(I don't share his warm feelings for the movie "Prophesy" or Peter Straub's "Ghost Story," but join him in highly recommending Ramsey Campbell's horribly titled "The Doll Who Ate His Mother" and the unforgettable "Dawn of the Dead.") Next I moved on to the list of recommended books and movies at the end, and found most of those very worthwhile as well.
This book is truly nothing more than Stephen King riffing sloppily (as hell) about the "horror genre." There is no pretense of scholarship, and it has a folky tone which makes it quite easy to imagine what it must have been like back in the day when King got a twelve pack of beer in him, had smoked a joint, and done enough lines of coke to get him on a never ending jag about "the deal" with the genre: to put it bluntly, its about as tight as "the blob," it's rambling, and it's also somewhat amusing, for, after, all, who wouldn't have minded getting stoned with "The King" and talking about horror?
When I first picked this up, I had seen the Johnny Depp adaptation of "Secret Window[, Secret Garden]" (the movie cut out the last half of the title) and, though the movie was far from excellent, I realized that there was more to the horror genre and to Stephen King in particular than I had previously thought.
This book showed me the light.Since reading this treatise on the genre, I have started actively seeking out more horror fiction than any other type of fiction and write almost exclusively in the genre.
Quattro sono i libri che durante la mia adolescenza mi hanno tenuto più compagnia.Danse Macabre, L'orrore soprannaturale in letteratura, Racconti fantastici del '900, Racconti fantastici dell'Ottocento .Li ho letti e riletti e li ho usati come Vademecum per trovare altre letture, altri autori che poi sono finiti tra i miei preferiti.In epoca pre-Google non sempre era facile, sopratutto quando si preferivano generi che sono sempre stati considerati sotto-generi.Raramente i consigli di King, di Lovecraft, di Lippi e di Calvino mi hanno deluso!
This was a fun read - an impressionistic literary journey through Steve's life and his experiences with horror. I came to know about EC Comics through this book, and I recently located its most terrifying story as endorsed by King (Foul Play) online. Made me sad that I was not born in America: especially before the comics code was implemented.
Unfortunately it’s not the sequel to Danse Macabre I long for, but it is vintage King and to hear his thoughts on some of the more recent contributions to celluloid horror (i.e. Blair Witch Project and the remake of The Last House on the Left) is worth every word.
I won’t say final, cause my fingers are still crossed for that sequel!!!At 37, I’ve consumed my fair share of horror and then some, and since my first reading of Danse Macabre have had all of 20 years to consider just what it is I’ve consumed.
It gives a lot of insight into Mr. King himself as well as into what he thinks about the writing.Let me update and expand on this a little.
I found (back when I read it) that it gave me a lot of insight (at least I think it did) into Mr. King.
Also at the time I read it I found the list of his favorite books in the back very interesting and spent a lot of time at the library trying to run them down.
That was a greater challenge then as I lived in a smaller city and the library didn't have nearly all the books he listed.
It's nice to see what putrified kindling helped build King's fire in the Horror Genre. I am looking forward to reading some of the books he referenced, Jack Finney: Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and The Third Level, Shirley Jackson: The Haunting of Hill House, and Richard Matheson: The Incredible Shrinking Man. So many books ,so little time.
Understand how thorough, organized, and insightful this work is when I say: I am no horror fan!
My 400-page hardcover translates to 800 paperback pages; daunting but this is excellent work.The very pleasant host rightfully presumes to address horror fans but I didn’t mind being in the minority.
With knowledge of only a few of the most infamous horror shows, films, and books; I was an utterly blank slate as a pupil!
Why the entertainment mediums of radio, television and theatre excelled in some eras over others.Even though horror is not for me, I would like Stephen to know I feel enriched by his explanations of what the appeal is.
Stephen King gives us an insight into the world of horror, science fiction film and essential reading.
I love nearly all his fiction work and his non-fiction novel On Writing was such a great insider view on his writing world.
This one is more ramblings and at times became annoying yes he writes good stories but hearing one too many rambles on his view of film and fiction might not really be that captivating for other readers also.
He mentions the three important horror classics the vampire, the werewolf and thing with no name novels.
Some things that crossed my mind as I read this book:1) It's actually kind of cool to hear Stephen King reference books he's already written as ideas he hasn't published yet.
It's been a while since I've read Saul (probably almost twenty years) but I don't recall him being much better or worse than anything else being published at the time.
In this case, I would be rereading, but I love Bradbury and had kind of forgotten that until King went on and on ad infinitum.Overall, this was an enjoyable read.
King makes some good points.
I was in a bookstore in Bangor, Maine looking at all the foreign editions of this book when a teenager mumbled that Danse Macabre is Stephen King's worst book.
This is a nonfiction analysis of the horror genre, both fiction and film, and it was really interesting to me.
In fact, I photocopied the suggested reading in the back of the book and worked my way through the lists - it took about five years.
I'm sure it's out of date, and that many of the titles he suggests are even harder to find now, but I still think the master knows horror.
I'd love to see an updated edition.
Точно като безкрайното обсъждане на интонационни единици в съвременната поезия или възможното излишество на някои препинателни знаци в краткия разказ, и тази дискусия попада в категория „Колко ангели се събират на върха на топлийката?“ и по принцип интересува само два типа хора — пияните и дипломантите, две почти идентични състояния на некомпетентност.След това разгледа трите романа, полагащи основите на хоръра, Франкенщайн, Дракула и Странният случай с доктор Джекил и мистър Хайд и ги свърза със съответните архетипни образи - Нещото, Вампира и Върколака - заемащи по-голямата част от модерната художествена литература на ужасите.
It'll give you some good information on the horror genre... But... It's damn BORING if you don't have some readings or movies background. Three stars for just King's name on the cover.. Lol... Kidding.
The tone of Danse Macabre is pure King: funny, sarcastic, and opinionated (Rod Serling wasn’t much of a writer and The Twilight Zone wasn’t really a horror series, or very good either.) As wonderful as that narrative tone is when you hear it in King’s own voice (like his audiobook version of On Writing), I wouldn’t recommend the audio version of Dance Macabre.
His goofy sense of humor, absolute frankness, and the occasional crass comment made me feel more like I was having a beer with the guy and discussing books than sitting in a lecture hall.
King goes in depth in discussing several movies and books that he feels have had major influence upon the genre and he doesn't hold back from describing major plot points or endings.
If you think that you might have the urge to read older sci-fi, fantasy, or horror and don't want to have any spoilers, this is not the book for you.
a really fun book even though it doesn't tell you anything new about horror. i mean unless you've never thought about horror at all. king is just such a great storyteller, it's all the side-tracks and footnotes and tossed-off stuff which makes the book so interesting.also i need to read some davis grubb. gerald kersh. and james herbert.and i really need to finally see dementia-13. why haven't i seen that. major failing
A terrific personal tour of the horror genre, by a master thereof. I enjoyed the personal anecdotes interjected, and came away with a rawther lengthy list of books and movies I need to read/watch. Thank you, Stephen King, from one of your Constant Readers.

It was the only "major" Stephen King book I'd never read.
I kept putting this one off because it was non-fiction and I was afraid I'd find it dry.
It just seemed a little plodding to me as he gives an analysis on each notable work.That being said, I have a nice list now of horror movies and books I was unfamiliar with that I now want to check out.
That alone made the book worth it.As far as recommendations go, I would say unless you're into a non-fiction study of horror, this one may not be for you.
This is a re-read, technically - I think I've actually even got the other edition marked as 'read' on here, because I found this one in a thrift store and bought it because I'm really bad at not buying every used Stephen King book I see, and thus we are here.
I really like King's nonfiction style of writing; I mean, I love his regular prose, but I always love his introductions and such, and this is basically like a 400-page introduction.
This book was the next best thing to sitting down with Stephen King and talking about favourite horror books and films. What can be more exciting that two slightly macabre minds coming together over a beloved topic? I had a blast. My top moments from this one were the discussions on The Haunting of Hill House and Rosemary's Baby, which are both my absolute favourite horror novels.
