https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/280553.Voodoo_River
The trail takes Elvis to Baton Rouge, Louisiana, giving readers a change from the familiar L.A. scene.When Elvis landed in a small town and started getting a feel for the place, I felt like I was there with him, from the local storefront BBQ and the people lined up during lunch, to the nosy librarian to the flavorful etouffee to the endlessly flat fields of sweet potatoes.
I thought Elvis' excitement quite sweet, nostalgically recalling such moments myself.Once again, Crais does interesting things with the typical mystery plot, where solving one issue leads to another.
Can Cole and Pike find Jodie Taylor's birth parents and leave Lousiana with their hides intact?It's been a lot time since my last Robert Crais book.
Parker's Spenser.In this outing, Cole's case takes him to Louisiana and quickly spirals out of control, par for the course for Elvis Cole and Joe Pike.
(hide spoiler)]If this was one of the first couple Elvis Cole books I read, I'd be tempted to give it a 5.
It seems like the Elvis Cole books always follow the same pattern.
While it was a really exciting book and I liked the twists, it followed the same basic pattern as the others.
Nothing deep or convoluted here. Just a basic, entertaining mystery. I listened to this book and I'm having trouble with the narrator's voice. It's just not how I've imagined Elvis Cole.
She hires Elvis to track down her birth parents but claims she just wants her medical history.
You can feel the humidity as he describes Elvis making his way through bayou country.
Plus, he does such a great job of describing the food that I wanted fly to New Orleans just to get some etouffee.The mystery and action in this one are very solid, but overall the story just didn’t grab me as much as the previous two novels did.
There’s a subplot with Elvis romancing a beautiful lawyer that I could have lived without, but it wasn’t overly distracting from the main story.
As usual, my favorite parts revolved around scenes where Elvis and his partner Joe Pike work together.
2nd read - Enjoyable Crais story, with Elvis in the middle of the Hollywood elite and their lies, and the Louisiana smuggling of illegal immigrants.
A blossoming love story starts with Lucy, a beautiful, smart lawyer with a son, who is Elvis' liaison down South.
1st read - Elvis is hired by a Hollywood agent to investigate the birth family of a famous television actress.
He heads to Louisiana, and along the way encounters boudin sausage, a beautiful lawyer, a 200 lb.
old snapping turtle named "Luther", some conflicting smugglers, a "mutant" cajun, a mysterious gentleman sympathetic to Hispanic immigrants, and a Raid spraying, Old Crow-drinking midwife.
Private Investigator Elvis Cole’s fifth outing is reputed to be one of Crais’ best.
Ostensibly about a search for the medical history of a popular TV actress who was adopted as a child, once in her home state of Louisiana Cole finds things are more complicated than expected.
It is the early stages of the investigation that keeps this from being a great novel.
As adoption law and Louisiana are both unfamiliar territory to him, she is a necessary touchstone, and their interaction, professionally and otherwise, helps alleviate the boredom until the case takes off.
But once it does, Voodoo River deserves it reputation.
All things considered, Voodoo River is well worth the trip.
Very good read. Elvis goes to Baton Rouge to help an adoptee find her birth parents. He begins his relationship with Lucy Chenier, which carries forward in ups and downs for the remainder of the series. When he discovers his client is being blackmailed, he brings Joe Pike to the scene. You just know, it being Louisiana, that double-cross is coming. And you just know that Joe will somehow rescue Elvis from a seemingly hopeless situation. If you like Crais, you will like this one too.
I was really disappointed with this outing in the Elvis Cole series. The plot was too convoluted, the writing poor, the ending rushed and, due to it's setting in Louisiana, it was uncomfortably obvious that the author doesn't compare favourably to the brilliance of James Lee Burke's Robicheaux series. Even the humour was flat in this one: seriously, how many times do we need reference to Joe Pike's aloof manner?I'll still persevere with this series as I have enjoyed the previous books. I just hope it gets better.
In Crais' novel 'good' people are trapped by racism's taint, not just in the South, but on Happy Nordic TV.Our LA based detective with the made-for-TV name Elvis Cole is sent to Louisiana on one task which morphs into a bigger and much uglier one, or many.
His eye for clothing - details of which made me wonder if Crais (or Elvis?) was (were?) gay.
But the lucidity with which the deep institutional racism that seems like the backbone of America, then and now, is written without being named, was what I loved best about this book.
Enjoyed this one by Crais, especially because we get to meet Lucille Chenier, who will be a key figure in future Elvis Cole adventures. I'll give Voodoo River 3 Stars as we do have to wait to the very end for the inevitable action. Joe Pike is here, always a great partner to have when the stuff hits the fan. Can't tell you the criminal action at the root of the story but the action begins when a Hollywood star hires Elvis to find out what happened in the past. A good read.
He noodles around doing his detecting thing until he more or less stumbles into a theory of what's going on and how to solve the problem, at which point his more deadly partner, Joe Pike, enters the game and the two of them clean up Dodge, usually with a lot of gunfire involved.I think perhaps my liking of this book may have something to do with its setting.
(Well, actually, a local PI uncovered it and Elvis stole the information from his office files, but let's not quibble over details.) Once again things get complicated as it develops that the local PI was trying to blackmail Elvis' client with the information that would have been shameful 36 years before and still might cause some problems in 1995 when this book was written.
Ostensibly Taylor, adopted at birth, wants Cole to establish whether her birth parents had anything in their medical history that may be of concern to her in the future.Cole quickly realises he’s been duped by the actress and her agent, and that a local investigator has already uncovered the actress’ family history and has been blackmailing her.
Cole for the first time sacrifices his client’s interests in pursuit of a bigger goal, whilst also finding time to romance Lucy Chenier, Taylor’s Louisianan lawyer.If you like mysteries involving wise-cracking PI’s, enigmatic sidekicks, blackmail, Cajun food, family secrets, murder, people smuggling, race issues, gun-play, crooked cops, violence, romance and a 100-year old snapping turtle this one is definitely the book for you.5 stars out of 5 from me.
Book 5 in the Elvis Cole series and another great read!
Nothing to dislike here. Crais' detective Elvis Cole is a likeable, wise-cracking presence in a serviceable mystery with the usual healthy dollop of violence towards the end of the novel. Cole's sidekick, Joe Pike, is as enigmatic as ever and the supporting cast engaging. Moving Cole out of his comfort zone and into the deep south is interesting, even if there are times the novel starts to read more like a foodie travelogue.Professionally written and the author makes it easy to forgive the plentiful cliches and tropes because of the sheer entertainment value of the novel.
Elvis Cole is hired by television star, Jodie Taylor, to discover her biological parents who gave her up for adoption 36 years ago. A simple adoption investigation turns into something much more. He discovers illegal immigration and much more. Exciting book. Elvis meets Lucy Chenier, a lawyer in Baton Rouge, who will be his love interest in future books.
This is, by far the best one in the series so far.
I love it when a series gets better and better rather than petering out like a limp firework.Elvis has been hired by a superstar who wants to know the truth about her biological family.
I was just expecting your typical mystery--detective does a little sleuthing, a few surprises, a life-and-death struggle or car race, a neat and happy ending.
This mystery has more layers than an onion and each one gets more stinky and eye-watering.
This is mystery writing at its very best, its very finest.
Well, I think this is a good book for me to read or anyone who has gotten into Robert Crais in the new millenium and wants to see the beginnings of Elvis, his relationship with Lucy Chenier, and how he and Joe worked together in the really tight situations.
In other words this is a good foundational book for what has come later and lately from Robert Crais.One thing I noticed this time.
so far Elvis and Joe seem to work their way out of a lot of hairy situations.
Liked it a lot but I just like Crais' writing, period.
This was introduced Lucy which is Elvis' love interest and I like her, too.
Elvis is such a great character, just love the guy.
One sentence when he was talked about Pike made me just laugh out loud.
I love it when I read something that makes me laugh like that.
Re-read the paragraph a couple of time, and yes, it was, to me, a laugh out loud couple of sentences.
Know I'm repeating myself but I just love Elvis Cole!
(Loved Elvis Presley, too, but won't get into that.)
I loved it! This was an early Elvis Cole novel--the once where he meets Lucy, the attorney who captures his heart, and her young son. Characters are well-drawn, the story keeps the reader turning pages. It is everything that makes Robert Crais one of my favorite writers. I must admit I am influenced by him as I see some of his techniques occasionally turning up in my own work. I highly recommend this book.
This starts out as a lame-ish mystery about an adopted woman's origins and ends up in a different place as a suspenseful, moving story about smuggling illegals from Central America. Elvis travels to Louisiana to investigate the adoption of tv star Jodi Taylor and, among southern eccentrics and tough guys, he meets Lucy Chenier, the lawyer he falls in love with.
If I rated books in absolute terms of pure enjoyability, all of the Elvis Cole series would be five stars, but I reserve the five stars for the ones that are even better than the others--and that would be Voodoo River. The plot doesn't differ that much from its predecessers, but this one is just written a bit better and Elvis has never been such a smartmouth. I just love these guys.
Crais never disappoints. He is one my favorite American mystery writers. While Los Angeles is usually featured as a character in his stories, in Voodoo River he goes to Louisiana to help an adopted woman find her natural parents.
One of Cole's most nuanced cases, and an intriguing one - Crais sets you up to think that the plot's one thing, but then takes it farther than you anticipate. Good small-town color, too.
My second Elvis Cole mystery in two days. If you are feeling a need for great characters, humor and lots of action, prepare to be entertained. In this one, Elvis takes the case of a television actress discreetly looking for her biological parents. He flys to Louisiana and soon learns that there are many secrets in this small town outside of Baton Rouge and even some that his client is keeping. Joe Pike lends a hand when things start to get nasty and they do get nasty. Nice subplot with a little romantic interest for Elvis.
Elvis is hired by a TV star in LA to find her birth parents in Louisiana, supposedly for medical history reasons. Quickly turns out to be not the case. The plot then spirals into blackmail, illegal alien transport... Subplot with Elvis falling for Louisiana lawyer who is part of the adoption case. Not my favorite. Elvis is good, other stuff, not so much. Pike was underused in the book, but woefully underused. Ending was easily seen come, and abrupt. Probably 2 1/2.
Absolutely love these books. Pike and Elvis are awesome characters and the crap they get into is always something else. But these books just grab a hold and keep me totally engaged. I highly recommend these books.
Another one down. Three more on the shelf and then hope to find more at book sale.
Still love Elvis and Joe Pike, even out of their LA element. Louisiana was an interesting change.
Good plot, lots of action to keep the pages turning, liked the Louisiana setting and the Cajun references...
I would have given this book 4.5 stars if I could. This is classic Elvis Cole from Crais, who is rapidly becoming one of my favorite writers. This book is tremendously well plotted with multiple twists and turns and is a fast and easy read. This is the tale where Elvis' pelvis meets the lovely Lucy. Highly recommended.
