https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149146.Saratoga_Trunk
I happened upon her by chance: My mother and I were flipping through TV channels and she stopped on a scene from "Giant." I'm more of a reader than a watcher, so I went to the library, got the book, and have been eating up Ferber's words ever since.Why is this author not more talked about?!
This woman not only knows how to tell a great, moving story and construct a beautiful sentence, she also creates these characters that are just so fun and real.
They go against the convention of their day (and Ferber's) but not in a way that's at all obnoxious.
I am rereading this for the umpteenth time, having begun when I was in high school and periodically revisiting it since.I found myself craving something with rich descriptions, exotic locations, complex characters, and interesting plots. And my eye fell upon this on the bookshelf.So here I go again, beginning in New Orleans with Clio Dulaine and her strange household.
Old-fashioned easy-reading fun.
Might have been 4 stars, but some of the scenes were weirdly talking, with the heroine just going on giving 'speeches' that didn't seem to show anything besides that she was a headstrong 'character'.
Explained away by the epilogue - it was originally meant to be a stage play.This was made into a movie, and what I want to know is, did the heroine's appearance in black-face at the ball of the season - did they really do that onscreen?The author photo on the back cover is almost worth the book alone.
I could barely finish this. I've loved other Ferber books (Giant and So Big) but this was so much weaker. The dialogue is beyond repetitive and the story is really slow. I did enjoy the atmosphere she evokes in her descriptions of New Orleans and Saratoga but not enough to tolerate the characters.
Apart from a few zingingly memorable phrases, this novel fell flat.
For the benefit of all my reading friends, you may interpret this as a 3.I know that sounds strange, but I loved this book...and I don't think everyone would.Here's the thing (and I had heard this before I read it and didn't want to believe it): It IS dated.
What doesn't hold true is that the main characters assert (at the end of the novel) that this time has passed, and that we now live in a true democracy where this kind of oligarchy cannot happen.
Nevertheless...this scene, whatever you think about it, DOES date the book.I loved so many things about this, though.
In the 1880's, Clio Dulaine moves to New Orleans to plot her future in seeking revenge for her Mom and Aunt. Her plans deviate when she meets and falls in love with Clint Maroon, a self-made Texan who lives by his own rules. Clio poses as a countess and hopes to marry a millionaire; Clint follows the shadows of the law and is far from a millionaire. Included in the plot is the emergence of the railroad. Clio's whining and bizarre comments can wear on the reader. The novel doesn't flow smoothly. Ferber's Giant was a masterpiece, this novel isn't.
The flow of this book wasn't as smooth as Ms. Ferber's other works. Characterizations are still fascinating, but the storyline ebbed and flowed like a train that was jerking to a stop. The author is still one of the most accomplished writers of her era and to be admired.
Not nearly as well-written as her prize-winning novel "So Big".
Hoping to encounter a novel more along the lines of Ferber's Pulitzer Prize-winning  So Big , I like Saratoga Trunk less. The contemporary criticism of this book seems well-founded, with its over-the-top nature and nod towards Hollywood musicals. While its story, which at first seems to be about a rich man at the end of his life, it's actually about a woman at the beginning of hers. This turn is refreshing, as are the characters, who protest against the roles and stereotypes and assumptions that
The contemporary criticism of this book seems well-founded, with its over-the-top nature and nod towards Hollywood musicals.
This turn is refreshing, as are the characters, who protest against the roles and stereotypes and assumptions that the world oppresses them with: Clio thumbing her nose at high society and rules meant to exclude her; Kaka objecting to being called "mammy"; and Cupide demanding to be recognized as a man.
However, given the time this book was written, the stereotypes are still cringe-worthy, and the exotification and infantalization of minorities will make you shiver.
It has a different feel than "Cimmaron" or "Giant", but it is a well-written novel.
Getting back at the people who cheated his father is another driving force for him.
Clio wants to be rich, but also safely in a marriage as her mother was not.
The attraction between the two is the driving force in this novel.
From her later novels, we know that Ms. Ferber was sympathetic to minorities, and she shows some of that here.
This was written in 1941, so one might give her some slack, but this is my greatest problem with this novel.

Concurrently, I adored the movie version.Now, looking back over 40 years, it is clear why.
Not only was Edna Ferber in complete control of her material in novel form, she was also a preeminent playwright of her day.
Kaufman, was "luke warm" toward the story, Ferber wrote it as a novel.One reviewer wrote, "'Saratoga Trunk' is so neatly made that the scenarists need only bracket the non-dialogue as stage direction, and call it a half-day's work."Indeed, the movie rolls out on the page.
Was a truer adaptation of a novel ever made?
And, I won't wait 40 years to read it again!
I actually came across a first edition of this novel in a thrift store, and had not read Edna Ferber, so thought it was a good opportunity to do so.
The book was a pleasant read, set primarily in both New Orleans and Saratoga, New York.
Add elements of horse racing, good food, and the intrigues of railroads in that era and the word that comes to mind is "rollicking," a word out of character for the novel but illustrative of the enjoyment I had from reading it.
This book was very close to getting a "I really liked it" from me.
Unfortuantely the mess of a beginning and end keep it short of the 4 stars.
An elderly couple is telling their story.
Now, their story is excellent.
The combination of odd charaters is enchanting.
Clio is the only child of a french royal and his cortesan mistress who was banished from New Orleans to France after the scandilous death of her father.
Set in the 1820's this book is intelligent, heart warming, and entertaining.
I wanted to read this book because my Mom was a big fan of Eda Ferber.
I also loved her book "So Big".
Ferber writes "large": rich, colorful characters, life in full bloom!
The story spans Paris to New Orleans to Saratoga, New York, and emerges us in the culture & society of each of these cities.
Clio Dulaine is a girl with dubious upper crust connections.
She desperately wants to be respected by society but struggles with her naturally flamboyant personality.
She is a schemer & "gifted" con artist but will that gain her satisfaction in the end?
Read it & find out for yourself!
Wow, this book has not aged well. I'm still convinced that Edna Ferber is a hidden treasure of American literature, but Saratoga Trunk read as horribly dated. Cringe-worthy highlights include most scenes with the African American maid and dwarf servant, and an appearance by Clio in blackface. Still, Clio, Clint, and old New Orleans and Saratoga were fascinating to read about. It's not exactly Giant, but it is readable.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book despite the clumsy beginning and abrupt ending. I have never read anything by Ferber but now having finished Saratoga Trunk, I am anxious to read more of her works. Although her writing style took a bit to get used to, once I got into the meat of the story I was hooked. If you can get past the uninteresting first 20 pages or so the rest of the book is worthwhile.
Interesting, engaging characters carry the story, but the plot limps along with little direction, split into two very different halves and culminating in something of an anticlimax. As always, Ferber enclosed the main story with a post-story frame that, in this case, seems to serve little purpose except to moralize about her characters' misdeeds.
“Edna Ferber is becoming my favorite author. I couldn't put this book down! I wasn't familiar with this time period or plaçage and I found the story fascinating. The setting and characters described in 'Saratoga Trunk' are vivid and exciting. When I read this passage I melted: He was magnificent, he was vast, he was beautiful, he was crude, he was rough, he was untamed, he was Texas.
I saw the movie 30 years ago. I loved the characters, the story and the actors of course, Gary Cooper, Ingrid Bergman and Flora Robson. And now that I finally had the occasion to read the book I can tell that I love it as much as the movie. Really entertaining. I know I will read it again someday as I hope to read the others novels written by Edna Ferber ... Giant, So Big, Show Boat ...
This book was not what I'd expected in terms of plot, but I enjoyed it a lot. This story, about a young woman of mixed heritage from New Orleans sets out to conquer/manipulate society and marry rich. Loved the scenes in the Saratoga racing season especially. Would definitely read more of her books. (Thanks, book club!)
I love Edna Ferber like nobody's business, and this one had some colorful characters, but it was only okay for me. It never really felt like it got going. I read a review that likened Clio to Scarlett O'Hara, and there really is no comparison.I did like the Kaka and Cupide, though.
I have loved this book for years. I have read it about 4 times and it entertains me every time. Her descriptions of New Orleans make me feel like I am there. Edna writes a great story and I plan to read all of her books.
I really enjoyed this book. Edna Ferber was a more popular author in the 1940s and 50s and I enjoy her writing style. This book was alot of fun. This book was also made into a movie with Ingrid Bergman and Gary Cooper. I plan to continue reading more of her novels.
Another great story from Edna Ferber. This is the first book of hers I read and then I had to read them all.
Read for Saratoga neighborhood book group. We will also watch the movie with Ingrid Bergman and Gary Cooper.
Simply couldn't get into it. I finished it, but then I promptly forgot all about it.
If you love Edna as I do, you should read this one. It has some of the weirdest and most baroque scenes in all Ferber--New Orleans, Paris, etc. Made into an even weirder movie.
I love the pace of Ferber's storytelling - you feel like you just roll along with all that wealth.
