https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1022866.Run_Baby_Run
This was an extremely popular book in Christian circles when I was in my teens (the 1990's.) I read it several times back then and as a relatively new believer probably would have rated it highly.
I wondered if my perspective had changed so got hold of a free copy and re-read it now, well some of it.There is no doubt that the story itself is an incredible working of God's power in the life of gangster Nicky Cruz through His servant David Wilkerson.
I've read this one several times. Each time, it only seems more powerful.
Having read The Cross and the Switchblade as well as Lonely but Never Alone in 1990, I thought I knew the story well enough not to still bother with "Run Baby Run".
besides, I couldn't get hold of this book at our local library then.
This book reveals far more details of Cruz' life before he ran away from home - here you have his motivations and start to understand his fear once he's the leader of the Mau Maus.
In fact, it might be a very good idea to go back to the other books I mentioned and read them again - "The Cross and the Switchblade" being Wilkerson's view of that ghetto and Nicky's conversion.
Must read! Get the book, “Run, Baby, Run“.And coming soon see the movie, “Thousand Pieces – The Nicky Cruz Story“ Nicky’s conversion was depicted in the 1970 film The Cross and the Switchblade starring Erik Estrada as Cruz and Pat Boone as David Wilkerson.
One of the best books I have ever read.
Even after several re-reads this book still leaves me speechless.
This is the story of Nicky Cruz, a misunderstood teenager from Puerto Rico who finds himself the leader of one of the most notorious gangs of New York, the Mau-Maus.
Soon Nicky's eyes are open and his life goes down a different path.This powerful story of a boy that develops and grows into one of the most influential Christian leaders in the world is a unique, heart wrenching story.
Thank you Nicky for sharing your amazing story.
Wow. This book is just amazing. Nicky Cruz's story is so inspiring and makes you want to reach out to everyone you meet. 'The cross and switchblade' by David Wilkerson gives another insight to this story and I will never tire of hearing God's amazing work in this man's life.
Run Baby Run is one of the best books I've read written by a Christian, and without a doubt, one of the best books I have yet to read.
It's a powerful testimony of a man whose hardened heart could only be broken through by relentless love.
The main character, Nicky Cruz, started life out bitter and angry, having been born into a family who practiced witchcraft.
And while I'm sure this isn't always the case with all Evangelical and Non denominational Christians, Run Baby Run reminded me that there is a tremendous battle being waged.
Out hearts and minds must be transformed, renewed by the Holy Spirit.
A powerful story of REDEMPTION and HOPE that has impacted many for His glory. This book and NICKY's testimony has motivated and inspired many to boldly step out in service and ministry- I invite every BELIEVER to read this..  David Wilkerson was an anointed man of God who shared the GOSPEL with Nicky and now Nicky has been serving and sharing with the masses for years..  Praise JESUS
Such miracles demonstrate God's grace, but his grace is more vividly displayed when Jesus accepts people into his fold who are sick, who have trouble remembering their friends' first names, who still burn with that physical urge for inebriation.Another area where Cruz has an unbiblical (even cultish) understanding of God's grace is the Pentecostal movement's understanding of the filling of the Holy Spirit.
His idea that there is a second filling of the Holy Spirit makes this experience dependent on man's work, not God's grace.
David presented Jesus and afterwards, Nicky was never the same.
The second half of the book is how Nicky became a preacher and helped go back to the streets he had grown up in during Teen Challenge's formative years.For anyone looking for a book about the life changing power of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, this is the book.
The only negative thing I can say about the book is that Nicky placed a big emphasis on the Baptism of the Holy Spirit in the modern day, which I really don't know that I agree with for reasons I will avoid here.
At age 15 his parents sent him to New York to live with his big brother, but the trouble prone Cruz soon ran away.
Living on the streets of New York City he encountered street gangs.
Being especially violent, determined & smart he rose in rank quickly within the gang.Nicky was a street fighter, a criminal and became the feared leader of the most violent New York City gang, the Mau Maus.Soon after meeting the preacher David Wilkerson, a skinny man he wanted to cut to pieces, Nicky's life was never the same.
Run baby run, a brilliant thrilling book of the true story of Nicky Cruz.
I being a Christian all my life have always loved Jesus with all my heart.
This amazing story tells of how powerful Jesus really is and how he can change anyone's life.
But through the loving care of God he was cleansed and forgiven and to this day a very inspirational Christian figure and human being as well as being a great evangelist.This book is amazing and deserves even more than five stars.
This is the story of his life with the gangs, from his start to his rise to the top, and his dramatic meeting with God through the unlikely skinny little preacher from Pennsylvania.
This book was amazing to me as a teenager, reading about how low people can fall, and how high God can raise them up.
it's a reminder to us never to give up on someone, because with God are things are possible.spoiler: Nicky is now an internationally crusading urban evangelist.
what a difference God can make in a life!
It wasn't long until he was elevated to gang leader thanks to his fearless ways.
But later came a man with three words for him that did scare him:`Jesus loves you!' Three small words that change Nicky Cruz's life for ever!However the change was not easy, there were struggles along the way and friends were lost as Nicky made the transition from gang leader into ministry!This book can make you cry when you read about how faith in Jesus Christ has impacted on people's lives where they are seemingly too far gone down the darkside to be saved.Read it and weep.
Run Baby Run is a very honest, riveting autobiography about a man with a lot of hurt, anger and pain turning away from his former life as a gang member and drug user to follow Christ.
He is very honest and humble as he tells his story from the beginning as a scared, angry boy living in Puerto Rico with his parents who were famous in their community for using witchcraft, to his teenage years living in New York with his brother, becoming a gang member and so on.
He leaves nothing out or hides anything about his past or his love of Jesus Christ.
Run Baby Run is a novel about a boy named Nicky Cruz.
He lives in Puerto Rico, and moves to New York to live with his brother.
When getting to New York he drops out of school and soon leaves his brother’s house.
Nicky then becomes president of the Mau Mau gang where at the time was the most violent gang.
One day a preacher meets this gang and Nicky agrees to attend one of the services.
After being in several services n Nicky leaves his gang and stops doing drugs, he then commits to change his ways.
This book is a very good book it has a lot of action and excitement. It is about a teenage boy who grow up in Brooklyn and has to deal with gangs and drugs and weapons and girls. He joins a gang called "Mau Mau" then it becomes very big and he becomes a leader. Later on in the years he becomes a christian and try's to tell all his friends and former gang members he marries a beautiful puerto rican girl and they live as Christians to gather. Nicky Cruz himself is also puerto rican.
I learned do not judge the others..this book gave me power to fight..it,s really worthy to fight even if u lose sometimes ..in one day u will be a big winner...what was different as this book..it was so fascinating that i read it in bus , when i walked..i was captived by this book..i really recomand it...
After reading the Cross and the switchblade I had to read this one. What an incredible story of redemption! If God can change a man like Nicky Cruz, He can change anyone, there is no doubt in my mind. Although this book was very graphic and detailed about all the crimes the gang members committed, it was a good read. it made Nicky's salvation all the more a miracle!
this book inspires you. it makes you want to live up to your full potential. very uplifting
I received this book from my grandmother years ago.
Due to some life changes it became part of my need to read and then discard pile.
I no longer collect books, just keeping those that bring joy.
I thought it would be some fiction thing as I didn't want to deal with my 'Jesus books' I've started and stopped.
This book surprised me in all the right ways.
And it doesn't make sense or happen until God wants it to.I found a renewed spirit in that moment.
A clearing is happening which is probably why I wasn't able to just get rid of this book and decided to read it when I did.
Run Baby Run is Nicky Cruz's life story.
Along with these things, there were quite a grammatical errors, and this is something that always bothers me when reading books.I would not have chosen to include the language and the racial slurs the way that Cruz did.
In fact, violence WAS life for the gangs in this story.
The deaths that are described are very sad as well.
I can see how some readers would get something out of this book, especially people who relate to Cruz's story.
In a memoir section Wiman mentions that as a kid "Run Baby Run" was one of his favorite books for a while, and for a short time in my late teens, it was certainly one of mine.
This (Kindle) version ended somewhat abruptly, and I have not bothered with more than a cursory glance at the epilogue matter.One observation I found interesting this time around: Some of Cruz's comments about the churches in the late 1950s reminded me that the Jesus Movement had not happened yet and that this book was of course one of the sparks that got that fire going.Good to go back here.
Very inspirational book about the hardships of gang life, hard drug use and how religion can be the savior of this. Although not appropriate for children of a primary age, it could definately be used in secondary schools (PSHE or Religious studies).Although my atheist nature leads me to criticism the reliability and credibility of what happened to him following his hard drug use. (Hence why it isn't 5 stars to me).
Fascinating story of Nicky Cruz who was once the leader of a New York gang and then found Christ at a Dave Wilkerson event. The book takes the reader from Nicky's young days in Puerto Rico to the streets of New York to California. Despite having some overlap with the book "The Cross and the Switchblade," the book is well worth reading itself as any "duplicate events"are presented from a different perspective.There is some graphic violence and descriptive drug use.
Wow - a moving book. This was read to me during my bible studies classes at school, I was so fascinated I listened. Usually during bible class I would argue back and get asked to leave the class. I read this book in one evening and I was once again gripped. The imagery in the book is amazing, how he describes snow when he first arrives in New York and watching the bouncing red balloon - this is a book that really speaks to you. It's an amazing and moving book.
[3.5 out of 5 stars]The first chapters of Nicky Cruz's life were full of darkness, violence, and hatred. God used a young preacher, David Wilkerson, to bring the first rays of light and love into Nicky's life. Don't miss his miraculous journey from gang leader to urban missionary!The excitement of this first person narrative makes parts of the book read like a novel.☺️
There really is a God, and He cares.I loved the raw honesty of Nicky. He told the bad, the good and the glorious just as it was. Behind it all is God, who doesn’t want a single soul to perish.
The life of this man as a child and youth before conversion and salvation is unbelievably horrifying. I read the book in my 20's and saw Nicky speak at Sheffield in England. A powerful story. Read also The Cross and the Switchblade by the preacher who risked all to reach such as him.
Powerful autobiography of a gang member, who heard the Word of God and came to salvation. It deals with all the systemic problems of poverty and peer pressured violence. A captivating read, with a huge and glorious message of the almighty power of God to save and to work in anyone, anywhere.
