https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9762.Loving_What_Is
The idea that "he should be dishonest" is simply not helpful or enlightening.* There were some disturbing "blame the victim" implications toward the end of the book when Byron Katie applied The Work to situations involving abuse, incest, rape, etc.
I'm sure the thousands of people who have experienced life-changing events because of The Work will disagree with me and let me know just where I'm not understanding her approach, but there are other, much better and less problematic sources (go read something by the Dalai Lama, for example) for the good elements in Byron Katie's book.For more book reviews, come visit my blog, Build Enough Bookshelves.
When the author suggested that the mother needed to accept mediocrity because the world was all about mediocrity, I almost wrecked the car.
Yes, we might all be *happier* or more content if we just accepted blanket mediocrity, but where would this world be?!
Thank goodness many people refuse to accept mediocrity for themselves or their children.I was also disgusted by her nonsense that everyone's truth is equal.
A member of the Taliban might determine what truth is for him, but most reasonable people will determine his truth is not equal to that of the most of the rest of the world.
This book about blew the top of my head off.Numerous times I had to sit back and contemplate the book for a long long time before I felt prepared to continue.I recommend this to EVERYBODY. It's another one of those books that would improve the world by major leaps and bounds if everybody read it.
Her book (and her questions, but mostly her interviews-as-examples) have the potential to help a lot of people deal with interpersonal issues (that she boils down to inner-personal).
The problem I have is the potentially dangerous way that she applies a universal logic to dealing with complex problems.
Still, she makes it quite clear from the numerous case studies in the book (examples from her workshops) that it's all about owning the bad things that happen to you.
The case-studies revealed the complexities of the technique in ways that the oversimplified narrative could not.
She was sexually abused by her stepfather from about age 9.Byron Katie must not be a sexual abuse surivor because her "work" with this gal both appalling and insensitive.
To tell a victim that they need to admit they are guilty of some part of the abuse is incomprehensible to me.
And to tell a victim to put herself into the abuser's shoes (how he must feel about himself) made me ill.
The abuse happened when this gal was a CHILD.
A child does not think or process information the same way an adult does.
It in no way was her fault.
Byron Katie, whose book is at heart cognitive therapy, was introduced into my life a few months ago when Sagar Simon, who counsels with The Work here in Amsterdam, gave a sample workshop at my women's networking group, Connecting Women.
The book's basic tenet is that all our suffering is caused by our attachment to the stories we create about our thoughts.
There are only three types of business: mine, yours and the Universe's.
It can be hard to swallow because, once you start doing The Work, you'll be confronted with the idea that you cause your own suffering.
. and simplistic.There's so much more to life, and people and their problems, and their stories, and their thinking and their feelings than Byron Katie acknowledges.Life is complex.And sometimes the way to clear your mind or look at life and things from a different perspective doesn't come in a 4-question package, no matter how well and often it has worked for others.I get the questions.
To start, let me say I generally loathe self-help books.
really?"But as I got further into the book, and really started to grasp exactly what she was trying to say, and trying to get people to implement in their lives..
I found this book immensely helpful.This book is NOT for those who cannot self-analyze at all, or do not have the ability to challenge their way of thinking in insightful ways.
this book may seem stupid and too simplistic on a cursory reading.
The beauty of her method is that it can be as deep and insightful as you make it, or as simplistically stupid as you see it.
You can believe almost totally that you couldn't have escaped the situation, but you still have that lingering shard of doubt -- and that could be a way in to learn to recover from it, starting with forgiving your own perceived complicity.I don't think Byron Katie is 100% right.
But the basic ideas can be useful and provide a way to logically see how you can better a problem by controlling your part in it.
Aspects of it were useful for me, but I'm still uncomfortable about other aspects.
I have no idea how to star this.
One star because I think it's potentially dangerous?
Four stars because I think some of it could be helpful for some people?
Ultimately, I think Katie's concepts are too much for most people to digest without potentially having bad side effects.
The idea of letting go of the things we can't control - other people, many of our thoughts, realizations that we're often our own problem and not the other person - these are good realizations.
I can't in good conscience recommend the book for most people.
It took years to correct the thought patterns and the way I felt about myself and others.
In Byron Katie's book with Stephen Mitchell, Loving What Is: Four questions that can change your life, the light came on.
I found out the reasoning behind- why I was being paranoid, and- why I made such rash judgments.
Byron Katie invites you to discover the reality in your life, how you react to it, feel about it, then turn it around.
Doing "The Work," I no longer hold onto false statements that support my paranoid thoughts.
This book is a must read for people of all walks of life.
And I don't believe a healthy, integrated and sane adult just resigns to accept whatever the other person is doing just because it's "not their business." In that case, if they are in my life (and I in theirs) in that way, then the lines between "our business" may be more interdependent.What I'm trying to say here is that I believe there is a healthy human place which acknowledges how we are affected by other people (while not being codependent) and can assertively navigate (ask for what we need or want) things without being attached by way of a neurotic ego.
Oh my, quite the awakening.In "The Work", Byron Katie takes us through the process of asking four fundamental questions to the difficult, aggravating, frustrating and painful situations in our lives, be it a relationship, a workplace or office situation, a personal dilemma, or an internal conflict.
I am infinitely glad that I read this book.On April 10th, I invited Ms. Byron Katie to come on to my show, The Daily Interaction podcast, for an interview and she said yes.
Maybe the book wouldn't be so interesting to others who are already are more self-aware than I am, but I liked learning to be more honest with myself.
I think many people would be surprised to find the stress and frustration that they think others are causing are actually self-generated.
Learning to ask myself "Can I really know that is true?", "How do I behave when I think that thought?", "Who would I be without that thought?" and "Is there any stress-free reason to keep thinking it?" will definitely become part of my self-talk from now on.
My first exposure to 'The Work' and Byron Katie was about 15 years ago.
But the truth is I wasn't ready or even able to hear or understand the concept of projection (even with a Master's in psychology!
What The Work brought me that all the books on the former list did not is an actual method--a process not a theory!--that gets you to the truth faster than any relational talk therapy can.
If it makes no sense, or is difficult to grasp in book form, try watching a video of Byron Katie working with someone (tons of videos on youtube) or at least visit the concept again in 6-7 years.
What she said made some sense, so I bought the book.
The recommendations in this book are potentially harmful.
I had major objections when on page 34:"Paul came into the room and saw me, and he stormed up to me, shouting, 'Jesus Christ, Kate, what the hell is the matter with you?' ...
So I said, 'Sweetheart, the matter with me is that I had the thought that you shouldn't be shouting, and it didn't feel right.
Now it feels right again.'"So it is okay for her husband to yell at her like that?
Please read more negative reviews on this book before purchasing!
Don't put your very personal thoughts and emotions into Byron Katie's hands!
I give this book five stars because I think that it is a profound idea that Byron Katie is introducing- especially for those who are tormented with the weight of worry about those people and circumstances around them that they feel as though they have some power to control.
It was a breakthrough for me, to have permission to let go of some worries that I felt duty-bound to carry with me throughout life.
It does have it's limits, in my mind, though Katie would disagree.
In some circumstances, it does not work.
But in freeing the mind, and giving inner peace, it was a must read for me.
Also helpful was Katie's notion that there are three types of business -- yours, mine, and God's -- and much of our stress comes from "mentally living out of our own business."But so much of the rest of the book put me off.
Also, I don't know if I believe the backstory of how the author had a sudden revelation that instantly flipped a switch in her brain from the blackest depression to the most intoxicating joy.
Despite some vile language in the transcripts used to illustrate the author's system and a slightly condescending tone found there, I found this book a wonderful little tool for dissecting embedded beliefs that do nothing but create grief.
The author's basic premise is that most unhappiness and stress comes when we argue with reality.
Although it certainly isn't written from a religious point of view, I found a lot of Biblical truths buried in those turnaround statements (e.g. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you and BEING the change you want to see in the world.) Great fodder for working on the dark side of human nature with one cautionary note: I'm not sure the author's approach works for anyone in an abusive situation, where victims are already prone to take more than their share of responsibility.
Katie Byron is FABULOUS....Haven't heard her name for years!She was a pioneer (along with Werner Erhard) ---"The Way Things Are --are the way things are"!FUN person! (we also saw her years ago)Wow---all these spiritual books a Goodreads member posted --is taking me down memory land!
It is a book that needs to be treated like a manual, read and re-read as one familiarizes themselves with the steps and procedure of The Work.Personally, chapters 7 and 9 contained the most value for me, someone who has been studying the field of (creative) writing for personal development, although up until chapter 7 the explanations and elaboration can seem a bit long winded and drawn out.
Therefore, this concept is a process that needs time and practice.Overall, I would recommend this book to anyone, who shows interest in the field of writing for personal development.
“The only time we suffer is when we believe a thought that argues with what is.
In fact, “If you want reality to be different than what it is, you might as well try to teach a cat to bark.” :) The question, of course, is “How can we get to a point where we actually ‘love what is?’” “I realized that it’s insane to oppose it.
When I argue with reality, I lose—but only 100% of the time.” Guess what?What’s happening is happening and no amount of wishing on our end is going to make it any different in that moment.
It’s blowing!” DO NOT argue with reality.
Don’t Argue with Reality - You’ll lose.2.
I don't usually like to treat books as background noise but it worked in this case.If you're not already familiar with Byron Katie's process of inquiry that she calls "the work" you should start with "Loving What Is: Four Questions That Can Change Your Life".
This book will make much more sense if you have that background first.In "Loving What Is" Byron Katie relates how she experiences daily life as someone who lives in a constant state of witnessing, non-dual awareness.
I find a strong resonance between what she says and my reading of historical accounts of enlightenment experiences, mostly in the Zen Buddhism tradition.
In order for me to fully grasp Byron Katie's philosphy I needed to read the entire book before being able to fully understand her steps.
After doing some of 'The Work' I'm amazed at things I have learned about myself just by Judging My Neighbor - an exercise that Katie promotes.
I also found this book to be even more helpful and I found it easier to read after visiting Katie's website www.thework.com The website allowed me to see Katie and 'The Work' in action.
It helped me to put a voice to Katie while reading the book.
I dont disagree with the concept of what she is trying to get across; I agree that only we have control over our own reality and the thoughts that reinforce our way of feeling.
But is if she was following her own mantra, she would not have to state that in the first place because if we think she is being insensitive or judgemental, that is just our own projections we are putting on her...I dont know if I would reccomend this to a client (I am a therapist) but I think people in general should read this book for some of the more feesible concepts.
"Reality doesn't wait for your opinion, vote, or permission, sweetheart.
This book gives a very simple process of examining my thoughts.
For this reason, I rate this book as a life changing five star.
Many of us cling to our story about how life has treated us.
This book will not be helpful to those of us unready to examine our perceptions about life.
However, if you are tired of reliving over and over pain and hurt, this book may offer profound relief and a new freedom from terminal thinking.
This book teaches the same thing that Bonds that Make us Free teaches, or Anatomy of Peace, yet it's more like "how to get out of the box in four steps" to put it in the language of Bonds. It's stated simply, yet very powerful if I can apply it. Encourages writing what your thoughts are as a way of working through to the truth of your thoughts. 20% of it is her message, the rest is dialogue between her and others doing "the work".
I liked this book at the beginning, but as it went on it just got kind of weird for me. I got some points as to what she was saying, especially when she talked about how you control your own thinking. But when it got to the section on rape, that was just messed up and weird. That's when I really lost interest.
Suppose, for instance, that you said, “I hate fat people.”We’ll do the work on this statement:1.
Are you sure you hate fat people?2.
Can you be absolutely positive that you hate ALL fat people?
What about nice fat people, do you hate them?
Do you hate fat people who are just a little over weight?
How does it make you feel when you think, “I hate fat people”?4.
Now look at the other one.” And I said, “Oh, now I see the problem.
On page 137, she uses litter in the desert as an example of how things are.
The author pretty much tells people to get over things.
Some of that advice could be valuable, but her delivery makes no sense whatsoever and is full of victim shaming.
She claims things like "there's no such thing as verbal abuse" and asks questions like "can you absolutely be sure that your dad doesn't love you?" after a victim describes a physically abusive father.
When the victim turns around and says other people had described the abuse, the author just claims that nothing is for certain.
"Can I absolutely be sure that this book victim shames?" YES.
