https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1097109.On_Another_Man_s_Wound
This started off my life-long fascination with Irish history and ethnic politics, and was responsible for all of my undergraduate research.Ernie O'Malley was a soldier in the IRA from just after the 1916 Easter Rising, through the Irish War of Independence, until the end of the Irish Civil War in 1923.
The relationship of the brothers is the civil war in microcosm and also you will probably cry.Tl;dr — Irish Che Guevara writes his version of the Motorcycle Diaries and it's excellent.Also, I love this book.
He joined the Volunteers, later organised other companies, was taken prisoner, and eventually was appointed commander of the Second Southen, the 2nd largest division of the IRA.This is a fascinating account of the war, showing how people from all backgrounds ended up on the same side.
But at the same time he tells how many of the British officers were polite and fair to him.
But for the most part this is a wonderfully well written account that offers a glimpse into a different mindset.O’Malley went on to fight on the anti-treaty side during the civil war, and has another book detailing those years; The Singing Flame.
This particular book was highly recommended by several people taking the course.
I bought the book and was immersed in Ernie O'Malley's Personal History of Ireland's War of Independence - the war against Great Britain.
This book covers only that particular time of Irish history.
O'Malley became very well known in this conflict, reported to Michael Collins, and later was put in charge of all the IRA groups in southern Ireland.
O'Malley also fought in the Civil War which began just after the above conflict was "settled".
His book on the Irish Civil War, entitled The Singing Flame was published posthumously.
Ernie describes hiking and cycling while on the run and organizing and leading brigades to fight the English.
The book ends with word of a cease fire which would lead to the ratification of the peace treaty and the end of the war of independence.
Ernie's second book recounts his participation in the civil war in opposition to the failure to secure a united Ireland.
He fought for seven years, was severely wounded twice and escaped from the high security Castle, the headquarters of British rule in Ireland.O'Malley is the best writer t recount the IRA struggle for independence.
Moving first hand account of the battle in Ireland. Well written, historically accurate and compelling.
This book could’ve used a good editor.
b) weird narrative bits like our boy earnie or "earnan" in gaelic riding around the irish countryside from county to county by bike, with his trenchcoat stuffed with military manuals, notebooks, weapons, ammo, whatever, contemplating nature and falling off his bike like a beckett character instead of a young man in a country at war, also cool.
if you don't have some grounding in the history tho or a general idea of the shape of events, his narrative can be a bit confusing, oh well.
Far more detailed than other accounts of this period that I have read. However, very insightful and has been put to good use by several historians and directors. I would consider reading the books which followed after by the same author.
this is a first hand account of the Easter Rising by one who was there and NOT a rebel...at first. It is absolutely riveting
A great book by a very intelligent and insightful man. You'll learn more about early 20th century Ireland from it than from a box load of others.Well-written and gripping.
