https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216377.VALIS
Maurice’s reaction to such an esoteric explanation of the universe makes for lively reading, a highpoint of insight into the rocky spiritual challenges faced by our narrator.Three - When your discover others share your theophanyTurns out, there are a number of other people who have had a similar theophany from the true Gnostic God. Horselover Fat’s encounter with these men and women challenges his very idea of sanity since he observes just how far zealots will go in their zealotry.Four – How to deal with your theophany once it starts to wear offFrom the novel: “They ought to make it a binding clause that if you find God you get to keep him.
Beside you sits a disheveled homeless person with crazy eyes.
Slowly, incredulously, you begin to realize that this crazy person is well read.
This is a fitting illustration of reading VALIS by Philip K.
Narrated by the author and yet telling the tale of Horselover Fat (a pseudonym for Dick himself) and yet with allusions that Fat is himself (and a direct reference to David Bowie!) and only written in the third person to make a better story.
VALIS represents the literary culmination of much of his research that readers can find in the The Exegesis of Philip K.
Was Fat really the recipient of a beam of pink light that contained information from god?
=============================SOME QUOTESP 10One of God’s great mercies is that he keeps us perpetually occluded.P 20 – [possible relation to LOST notions – Faraday saying that the light falls differently on the island]God, he told us, had fired a beam of pink light directly at him, at his head, his eyes; Fat had been temporarily blinded and his head had ached for days.
One time Fat studied a color chart, a chart of the visible spectrum.
P 46“You know what Eliade says about the dream-time of the Australian Bushmen?
It felt like the ramblings of a man who had gone through something he couldn't explain and did his damned awful best to figure it out, but that includes religious horror, classical Greek authors, a ton of philosophy, and a life that is falling apart.I've since read his Exegesis, or at least the edited parts of it, but I was personally horrified by his own accounting of the Exegesis that he was currently writing at the time of, and within, this novel.
At the time I first read it, I honestly thought that PKD had specifically picked this highly intellectual, spooky, crazy method to tell a story in a novel, while using himself as a split personality as a foil.
Dick, and I want to maybe give him a shot, but I don't know where to start because he's written dozens of novels” statement my instantaneous response would be, “NOT Valis!” Then I would add I've only read five or six of PKD's novels and I'm giddy with the prospect of reading further into his catalog.
PKD's life was, ahem, rather interesting, and this novel, unfortunately, will read weird if you don't know the author's backstory.
It'll read weird anyway.
Fans with good skimming abilities or a lot of patience.
I/he looked in the mirror to find the face of God. We are all created in God's image, or so we've been taught, I/he thought. But I/he saw no God there; instead there was fallibility, weakness, hypocrisy, despair, and longing. A desire and a need to fool oneself, to compartmentalize so that one part can hide from the other. Where is this so-called God, I/he thought. Perhaps God is disguised somehow, in the background... or camouflaged in the foreground, a Zebra hidden in plain sight.I/he looked
I/he looked in the mirror to find the face of God. We are all created in God's image, or so we've been taught, I/he thought.
or camouflaged in the foreground, a Zebra hidden in plain sight.I/he looked in the mirror a second time, and saw all of our selves - all of us throughout time, some weak and some strong, but most somewhere in-between.
But God doesn't die, and this body certainly will, I/he thought mournfully.All of us looked in the mirror a third time; God looked back upon us.
God lives through all things, in all of the weak things and in all of the strong, in everything in-between; even in us, thought Us.
This book is a brutally honest, oftentimes darkly humorous, painful exploration of PKD trying to come to grips with some bizarre religious/hallucinatory experiences in 1974 during a particularly troubled period in his life.
These experiences culminated in him being struck by a pink laser beam from an artificial living satellite (VALIS: Vast Active Living Intelligence System) orbiting the star Sirius, and was imparted a brief connection with a “transcendentally rational mind” that told him his infant son was suffering from an inguinal hernia and needed immediate surgery to save his life (which turned out to be true).
enough, philip...
Dick really did have a visionary experience and had the mysteries of the universe opened up to him, and if that is the case then time is a total illusion and you didn't really waste anytime at all reading the book, and soon the prison of our reality will be broken and we will all return to the true world where time and space don't exist.
DickIs Phil Dick talking about regressing back to former time periods, or the much more radical notion of previous structures existing in the sub-strata of reality and emanating forward, like the notion of ancient Rome, a proto-fascist state, The Black Iron Prison of VALIS, falling forward through history.
I think for Phil Dick - sensing these things - was no mere matter of psychological themes.
So he had it right, now everyday objects talk to us, and form part of an oppressive regime whose intent is to shackle the soul.More stuff on the other side of the barricade.
The toxic particle, made of heavy metal, has embedded itself in the universe-organism and is poisoning it.
A couple of years ago I made a start on VALIS, expecting more fun time craziness from PKD.
VALIS, however, is generally well regarded, here on Goodreads the positive reviews far outweigh the negatives.VALIS tells the story of Horselover Fat (OK, that’s pretty LOL) who is hit by a mysterious pink beam of light which is packed with all kinds of info*.
The most interesting thing about Horselover Fat is that he is PKD, except when he isn’t!
This novel is a fictionalized elaboration and exploration of that conflict, one which is faithful to the content of Dick's actual delusions down to a great number of specific details.I'm fascinated by this kind of stuff -- I mean, by delusionally insane people who can successfully articulate the content of their delusions, and in whom there is some sort of inner conflict.
In the face of something like divine revelation, the details of character fade into the background.There is a deadpan, regular-guy tone to this book that is very likable, especially in combination with the bizarre subject matter.
Using a fictional character named Horselover Fat, PKD recounts an encounter with a beam of super-intelligent 'Pink Light' that unexpectedly struck him in the seventies; imparting vast amounts of information, wisdom, and ongoing hallucinations, much of which Phillip spent years trying to unpack and digest.
PKD stars in his own story, acting as a sane counterbalance to his character of Horselover Fat who is gradually growing insane due to his encounter with the pink beam.
A common saying is that there is a thin line between genius and insanity. PKD turns the line into a 4D hypercube and goes on at length about Gnosticism, WWII battles, history, politics, drug culture, and its still incredibly interesting. I won't pretend to judge on the nature of what happened to him, but his books are as interesting to think about as ever.
"The universe is information and we are stationary in it, not three dimensional and not in space or time." Philip K. Dick, Valis
Ovo je toliko spaljeno da je genijalno! Zapravo, ovo nije roman u klasičnom smislu, više je skup eseja o poimanju religije, vjere, Boga, uklopljen u kakvu takvu priču. Također, nije za jedno čitanje, i vjerojatno sve možemo pohvatati iz knjige nakon barem desetak čitanja. Pa kome se da, nek navali. Oprečna su mišljenja o Valisu, ali jedno ne možemo ignorirati, a to je mozak, mašta i način razmišljanja velikog PKD-a.
Dick plays with his reader and himself in exploring Horselover Fat's descent into (a perfectly sane, as it turns out) insanity.
And the plot-heavier portions of the novel, toward the end especially, seem only modestly thought-out, almost tacked on when the author realized he was almost done with his book and hadn't really told much of a story.
Dick's novels.
That should be fascinating, but in the case of VALIS it's like listening to someone describe a half-remembered dream in confused generalities that function as detail.
Dick (and his alter ego, Horselover Fat) are both pretty up front about the fact that he/they are not mentally well.Despite his mental illness and years of drug use, Dick can write!
It kept me reading for 271 pages despite the fact that hardly anything actually happens.
A vast portion of the book happens only in the author’s head, thinking about his theories about nature of the world, religion, and life and musing on his personal visions.
Despite the fact that it is easier than tackling you own issues and gives you a feeling of virtue for “helping” others.
So said the Lord.Like with A Scanner Darkly I just sat back and let the crazy flow through me. Unlike A Scanner Darkly there was no epic emotional payoff at the end. The ending was abrupt and the afterward was just more crazy. Hell, it sounded like it wasn’t even PKD that wrote it. This was all food for thought and food for a straight jacket. The Empire Never Ended.
i am a perfect breeding ground for it: i read a lot of gnostic texts in university, and struggled against tipping points when i read the book within franny and zooey "the way of the pilgrim" and when i saw mike leigh's film, "naked" and it made me think many crazy things, like chernobyl means wormwood, and the disaster was the third trumpet.
and every subsequent complete or near-attempt to read it is the same, i start to slip, and think i cannot accept but neither can i live without, believing in something very like VALIS.
Religion is a form of schizophrenia.
Beside the psychiatric ward in this novel, see also Anne Quin's The Unmapped Country, which I finished immediately before this, or pretty much any other example.As a novel, this fits reasonably into the fictionalized-personal-account-of-mental-health-struggles tradition, but it's also much more layered than most -- post-modern sci-fi memoir and paranoid theoretical discourse.
I especially appreciate how the author/narrator warns us about his own madness, first compartmentalizing it in a sub-character but later getting taken over entirely by its own counter-theories.Or perhaps this is much better: Schizophrenia is a form of religion.
Many people will be curious about Dick's writing, find out that this is one of his best books, read a little bit of it, and then throw it down and never read another Dick book.
I read (and loved) Voices from the Street, but stayed far away from Dick's sci-fi for a long time after putting Valis down in confusion.
Trying to read this book as your first (or even second) Dick book is like skipping right to the last boss before you know how to play the game.
Before you read Valis, read a handful of other Dick books.
Then read a little about Dick's life.
Dick, an extremely crazy, extremely talented sci-fi author writes a book about religion-as-conspiracy, it's a safe bet that some serious head-messing is about to ensue.Someone (I think it was Ursula LeGuin) once remarked that Philip K.
Dick is one of the least controlled writers I've ever encountered; he seems to be at the mercy of his plots, the words pouring out of him helter-skelter, and the the identity and memory that he questions is clearly his own.Valis is arguably his best book, and in every respect it's a wild -- and disturbing -- ride.
Yesterday I started AND finished one of PKD's most profound works.
I always find it hard to write about a PKD experience because they are all life-altering, and I truly mean that.
I think most scifi folks love his work before 1974 because it's simply FANTASTIC WRITING.
PKD is a rare exception; and it's not like his life was some fairy tale.
A lot of the details in the book actually happened to him, although you would have to read more than one bio to know that.
"There's someone else living in me and he's not in this century."
He had a series of visions over the next two months, and spent the rest of his life trying to understand them.The novel splits Dick into two characters: the narrator, Philip K Dick, a moderately successful science-fiction writer; and Horselover Fat his crazy illuminated friend, to whom the visions arrived, and whose life became a quest to resolve their enigma.
The true God is outside the universe and breaking through to heal it and us in various ways, including the pink light that Dick experienced.After many surreal experiences and visions the book ends with the narrator, Philip K.
Or this could be about what it's like when you suffer from mental illness, how you feel sane; it's just everyone else around you that seems crazy and how you will always be able see things around you in a way that re-inforces your paranoid fantasies.I think PKD intended this ambiguity but I think he genuinely believed that it was in fact real, that he had had a genuine insight into the true nature of reality and, in laying down his tractus, was sharing his insights with the world.
When you spend your whole creative life walking the thin line that separates genius from madness then occasionally you are going to make a few missteps.Philip K Dick walked that line longer than most and we should be grateful he kept it together enough to write some of the most intriguing works of twentieth century science fiction.
This was not one of those works.If you want to invest some time in thinking about the connections between theories of parallel worlds, Gnosticism, pre Socratic philosophy and the relationship between creativity and mental illness then give it a go.
I know Philip K. Dick is a revered pillar of the science fiction community, but I truly despised this book. Self-indulgent, and packed with religious claptrappery, it was a chore to read. Female characters existed solely as a source of aggravation. Just when I thought it couldn't get any worse, in chapter 12, the main character/author forces his son to take part in a bizarre communion ritual...lovely. You don't even want to know what happens to the savior/child in chapter 13. If I want to read about child abuse and misogyny, I'll muddle through the Bible.
It gives you a real sense of a mind divided between our so-called "Observable reality" and the truth of our limited perceptions and how some arrive at points of departure from what the rest of us more or less agree to call "The truth." The disarming technique of describing what anyone on the outside would call irrationality in a rational, educated, and personal manner brought home the dire stakes of mental illness.
