https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420182.The_Rosemary_Tree
It is a wonderful story of the healing of power of grace and kindness.
If anything, it shows the high cost of loving and forgiving.Beautifully written with many layers of meaning.A favorite quote: "The way God squandered Himself had always hurt her and annoyed her too.
It was not for her to criticize the ways of Almighty God; if He liked to go to all that trouble over the snowflakes, millions and millions of them, their intricate patterns too small to be seen by human eyes, and melting as soon as made, that was His affair and not hers.
I remember her recommending a few authors when I progressed from the junior to the adult library, and others over the years since them; but now, as I look back, I think that it is her recommendation of Elizabeth Goudge that says much about the woman she was and is.The two of them shared a faith; a love of home, family, and the world around them; a belief that lives could be changed for the better through compassion, understanding and friendship; an appreciation of literature and all of the wonderful things that can be found in books …..All of these things are to be found in ‘The Rosemary Tree’.It tells a story of the Wentworth family: John, Daphne and their three daughters: Pat, Margary and Winkle.
The central family is comprised of John Wentworth, a vicar, his wife and three daughters who live in the vicarage of a small English village along with Harriet, the nanny who raised John.
Somehow through love and understanding and Christian charity, Michael is rehabilitated as a human being and the vicar's family remains intact.The characters are wonderfully drawn, the wit is acerbic, the natural life of the English countryside is as healing as the palatably rendered Christian philosophy which is Elizabeth Goudge's trademark.
A thread of the supernatural runs through Goudge's writing and in The Rosemary Tree, Winkle daydreams back to her spiritual home universe.
Another wonderful story from Elizabeth Goudge filled with spirituality, lovely prose, well-drawn characters, and wisdom. She never fails to pull me in, pull on my heart-strings, and make me think. A keeper to revisit.
The Rosemary Tree a family drama set in a Devonshire village in the 1950s.
The focus is on the Wentworth family.
John Wentworth is the vicar of Bellemaray.
He is a good man, but he struggles to be a good priest and a good husband to his proud, critical wife and a good father to his three children, one of which is being bullied at school.
When one day a stranger stumbles into the village he becomes a catalyst for change which leads to reconciliation and forgiveness.
While The Rosemary Tree has obvious religious overtones, I think the message can also be interpreted as a humanist one and can be enjoyed by non-believers and believers alike.
As I said before in my updates, this book was slow at first, but it grew gently irresistible over time. Goudge writes the kind of book you can meditate on for months. (Beadsman is now one of my favorite words- Look it up in an old dictionary.) I read this aloud to my mum, and it turns out that mothers are a perfect audience for this particular title, so if you have the means, do read it to yours too! "I just live", Winkle said. "Living is dirty work, but I like it."
Just got my hands on this again, after reading it first from the library and then owning it and somehow loaning it out and never getting it back...Goudge is one of my all-time favorite authors, and there are several of her books that I have read a half-dozen times or more (notably, "The Dean's Watch" and "Pilgrim's Inn"--aka "Herb of Grace").
This is one that has come to mind often in the past couple of years.
Found a British first edition on Amazon, and I've been waiting to treat myself to this.
A chapter a night at bedtime.
Not one of her most memorable, but there were some lovely bits as always. Felt a little draggy most of the time though. It seems that most Goudge stories without magic are a bit of struggle for me to get through, especially these 'modern' ones.
(Indeed, I would say that the nearest she comes to this is the scene with Mrs Belling when she faces the somewhat contextless question "Who do you say that I am?") Instead, it is resolved by spiritual awakenings in which the characters come to understand themselves and to relate in a new way to themselves, each other, and God. So while Goudge absolutely makes good and insightful points and urges us to take a closer look at ourselves and at the ways in which we show Christ's love to the world, her theology is ultimately so flawed as to be perilous.There isn't much of a "plot" here: the plot is the spirituality, so you can't talk about one without the other.
Before she got her eyes open she knew she was in it.
and then came the realization that it was raining, that it was Monday morning, that her hot water bottle had leaked in the night and that she hated everybody.
As a general rule her temper was of a fireworks variety, an affair of sparks and flashes that seemed a mere effervescence of her vitality and was enjoyed by all, but upon rare occasions she woke up in the morning possessed by an absolute demon...
On her demonic mornings her hatred of everybody always included herself, for even her rages had a wide generosity about them and left nothing without the pale.
I guess Elizabeth Goudge gets filed with "romance," just judging from her book covers (young men and women gazing moonily at each other)--but I think she's much more.
Her insights are deep, and penetrating, and transcend the times of her novels.That being said, she writes about England in the early middle of the twentieth century, and evokes the place and the time exquisitely.
If you love these settings and these times, and Goudge's gentle way with the issues of the human heart, you'll like this book, and, I suspect, anything else she writes.
I read this many years ago. It was a slow read, because there was a great deal of inward ruminating, and yet I couldn't put it out of my mind. The characters are so richly delineated and multi-layered, even when they're unsympathetic, that it really makes you think and consider, which is what all good books should do.
Another great book by one of my all-time favorite authors. I love the way she weaves so many stories together for good, always offering the hope of love to redeem."I've never welcomed anything difficult or painful. I've always resented it and hit back. I can see now that to have welcomed the slings and arrows might have been to welcome love."
This is my favorite of E. Goudge's, and I never tire of re-reading it. I find it beautiful, wonderfully written, and inspiring. Her insights into children and animals are unlike anyone else's. And so are her insights into the human mind, heart and soul.
Love the way Elizabeth Goudge recognises the dignity, beauty and value of people despite their recognised failings.
I loved this book. I think just the atmosphere of an England that probably doesn't exist or never has. This and Pilgrims Inn and oh I can't really choose, I loved them all.
He frequently flails himself mentally for his failures, but is staunch in the stands he does take such as allowing Miss Wentworth to stay at the manor when his wife Daphne thinks it's selfish and she and her family should live there instead of at the vicarage.
John is aware that Margary is unhappy at the school, but countering Daphne's will on the subject is beyond him.
It turns out that he, too, has a connection to the Wentworths, though he was unaware of it upon his arrival at the village.The Wentworth family appears happy, but Goudge reveals the characters' dissatisfactions and the underlying strain of Daphne and John's marriage.
A charming story of an unworldly vicar, his discontented wife, and his three young daughters.
The wife feels overworked and undervalued.
The vicar's former nanny, now aged and very disabled with arthritis, lives with them and eventually dispenses enough wisdom to help them straighten out.
The vicar's great-aunt lives in the family manor nearby (where his wife would prefer to be if they could afford it) - she too is aging and somewhat disabled, but continues to weed and to show her prize pigs.
I enjoyed it very much, although I must admit I tend to skim over the 'preachy' parts where there are discussions of faith and belief and morality.
I love Goudge's children's books, but this is the first of her books for adults that I've read.
It's recognisably by the same hand: lyrical prose about birds and gardens, characters called Henrietta and Maria, people finding their place to recover from the trials of the world.
It's a simple story, more a series of wonderfully observed character studies as events slowly unfurl around them.
Beautiful as it is, I did feel there was rather a lot of it, and when characters say things such as "I have ceased to think of death as irretrievable destruction" to each other, it felt heavier than the story could hold.
I started reading Elizabeth Goudge because I read somewhere that she was comparable to George MacDonald. This book was very thought-provoking, and tackled deep issues and emotions. The author obviously planned this book well, with minor characters tying the beginning and end together, as well as the climax. I feel as though I've met these characters and have much in common with them. I'd like to be able to sit in their parlor and share tea. I highly recommend this book, but it needs to be read slowly and thoughtfully.
I didn't love this quite as much as my favourite Elizabeth Goudge Damerosehay trilogy, but it still had the essential wonderful characteristics of her books. For me those are her insightful portrayals of children; in this book the glorious Winkle, sensitive Margaret and hard-headed Pat. I also particularly enjoy her descriptions of nature and the seasons and in 'The Rosemary Tree', these weaved around the transitions of the main characters. Our 'hero' Michael arrives with the daffodils, heralding new hope for his life. If you haven't yet read this Elizabeth Goudge, I highly recommend it.
To read Elizabeth Goudge books is to fall in love. Now I'm just as impatient as the next person, but Ms. Goudge slows you down and pulls you in. Aaaaaah. It's so nice.The characters become the pure distillation of human spirit and they ache with longing for that which seems unreachable, but quite suddenly appears in front of them as a sparkling brook.Pure bliss! Highly recommended!
The ultimate 'feel good' book. This book really can lift you out of despondency. A good story with much thought on kindness and caring of our fellow man. It was a disappointing to turn the last page. Highly recommended.
Enjoyable but a bit confusing to follow in places. Some of the characters I loved and others I couldn't warm to.
Goudge tackles redemption here, and does it with her usual heart and style.
Pure Goudge!
While it was quite heavy on philosphical/theological soliloquies, and botanical descriptions, and somewhat short on plot for all its almost 400 pages, there were many moments of magic that reminded me--Oh, yes, now I remember who I am!
Elizabeth Goudge is one of my three favorite authors.
Still, in Rosemary Tree, her insistence on the redemption of characters sometimes frustrated me--and that reaction pulled me up short and gave me more than a few moments of my own philosophical/theological reflections!
Another gem from Elizabeth Goudge.
He comes to a little English town, meeting the vicar, John Wentworth, on the bridge overlooking the river.
They instantly like one another and form the beginnings of a friendship.John's daughters attend a private day school where one teacher, Miss Giles, is mean-spirited and unkind, and the other, Mary O'Hara, is warm and loving.
The owner of the school is selfish to the destruction of those around her.
Daphne, John's wife, is a good, capable woman if not a very loving one.
The book ties all these stories together with kindness and good will.

This should be listed among the best works of Elizabeth Goudge. The story is one of a priest in the Church of England who despises himself for his bumbling, inept ministry. His parishioners think he is bumbling, but they love him for his compassion and humility. In reality, God works powerfully through his weakness to change the lives of those around him. As always with this author, the writing is excellent. However, it is not a book for those who like action. The book takes place in the hearts and minds of people.
More excellence from Elizabeth Goudge. Sin, forgiveness, shame, redemption, evil ending in pitiful nothingness, a broken marriage restored... Good triumphs over evil.One thing I love about this book (and Scent of Water did this, too) was that even though the end was predictable in the large scale -good wins- the details aren't entirely predictable. That's hard to do.Books like this make me want to be a better person.
