https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021145-the-botany-of-desire
I love books that open my eyes, teach me something, and even go so far as to re-educate me on the fallacies foisted upon me by ill-informed elementary school teachers.
Michael Pollan is more humorous and, let's just say, more adventurous than one might expect from a journalist/botanist (see his passages on hallucinogenic plants.) I appreciate his willingness to "go first" in the same way I tip my hat to daring bastard who first tried, say, lobster.
Definitely looks poisonous....Fuck it, I'm hungry." Trying new, unknown food must have been done on a dare or at least with starvation lurking close at-hand.
I don't know who would eat another kind after reading this book.
This one was just a bit more aggressive about it."CARMEN: o.OPAPI: "Trees are always hoping that the humans or animals walking by will drop dead.
This was a fascinating section about drugs, Pollan's experiences growing and smoking pot, and why plants that alter human consciousness could be a good thing.We also get gems like this:[Witches'] potion recipes called for such things as datura, opium poppies, belladonna, hashish, fly-agaric mushrooms, and the skins of toads.
This was interesting because Pollan discusses the Potato Famine and also GMO potatoes.
Okay, okay, books by Michael Pollan are clearly a fad right now, but I have bought into it whole-heartedly.
He is an amazing, amazing writer: he makes me want to plant a garden, to tour his garden (his bedroom?
what?), to only eat organic food, and to find out the story and origin of every morsel of food I put in my body.
Instead, he lets you get what he is saying while at the same time telling an engaging, well-researched story, both personal and historic, and one that made me want to read quickly to the very end.
The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World by Michael Pollan introduces the possibility to the reader that plants are using insects, animals and humans to ensure their own survival. An interesting book about the symbiosis between all living organism and how Charles Darwin's evolutionary theory of natural selection is happening.  In The Botany of Desire, Michael Pollan ingeniously demonstrates how people and domesticated plants have formed a similarly reciprocal relationship. He master
What the author did in the book is to address the hybridizing of plant species to fit our needs.
:-) It's losing a star as a result.I've sent an excerpt of the book to 30 botanist friends from all over the world, who worked with me on an international DNA project of the natural flora in our country, and just loved the reactions.
All domesticated plants are in some sense artifical, living archives of both cultural and natural information that people have helped to "design".
(The word 'tulip' is a corruption of the Turkish word for 'turban'.)Tulips, like apples, do not come true from seed - which accounts for the astonishing variety it can produce.....though it takes 7 years before a tulip grown from seed flowers and shows its new colours.(In seventeenth century Holland) botany became a national pastime, followed as closely and avidly as we follow sports today.Land in Holland being so scarce and expensive, Dutch gardens were miniatures, measured in square feet rather than acres and frequently augmented with mirrors.
Our obsession with growing the same potato all over the world to make the perfect McDonalds fry is symbolic of the Apollonian desire – Johnny Appleseed growing apple trees from seed and thereby getting a vast number of genetically different trees symbolic of the Dionysian.This central tension forms a large part of the basis of the book.
Which is probably for the best.Again, as with the apples and the tulips, I did know much of the story of marijuana before I started reading, but not really all of the details.
From the jacket copy and reviews I'd read, I'd come to expect a poetic lay-science book about the entwined destinies of plants and humans.
Hell, that's what the author's introduction led me to expect, too.I did not expect, nor want, most of the chapter on the apple to be more concerned about the historical realities of Johnny Appleseed than with the apple itself.
If I hear one more cute little musing about Johnny Appleseed, I will start seriously considering not listening to this book anymore....I hope the damned thing gets more interesting in the next chapter, that's all I'm saying.
Very long, repetitious, & kept wandering into pseudoscientific philosophy.
Yes, it is interesting to contemplate whether we domesticated a plant or it domesticated us.
It is a koan, a philosophical riddle that can mean many things depending on the observer.The history & mechanisms of co-evolution are interesting, too.
The idea that a strain of cannabis can get us high seems less strange to me than a mere fungus, yeast, doing everything from getting us high to making bread rise & even insulin to treat diabetes.Anyway, I was looking for a scientific & historical book, not sophomoric philosophy.
As beguiling as the plants this book enlightened me about
Four common plants and I didn't know they each held such a rich history.
If only.On the subject of plants causing us to help them multiply by being appealing to us: I view this language as couching the concept in terms that we might understand, finding a common thread and expounding.
If they could effect deliberate change in us, would they let us spray potatoes like that or make the mealy Red Delicious, I'm sure it was once actually delicious, the most common apple in US supermarkets?
I wonder what it would be like if plants could fight us.
Boy, was I wrong!Pollan looks at four human desires and four plants that satisfy those desires to explore the interdependence of humans and plants.
The desires/plants are Sweet/Apple, Beauty/Tulip, Intoxication/Cannabis and Control/Potato.
He busts the myth of Johnny Appleseed, shows how Tulipomania was the tech bubble of 17th century Dutch society, tells how cannabis produces the crystal clarity experienced by users and how it's different from others drugs and illustrates the historical folly of man's quest to industrialize food production by creating botanical mono-cultures.
My hunch is after reading this you will never eat a commercially grown potato again!Pollan concludes that while humans believe in our ultimate control over plants, plants have equal influence on the destiny of mankind.
Ancak bu beni tatminsiz bıraktığı gerçeğini değiştirmez.Kitap dört bitki üzerinden gidiyor ve şöyle diyor:-türkçe edisyonda "dört temel insan arzusunu - tatlılık, güzellik, sarhoşluk ve kontrol- bunları tatmin eden dört bitki -elma, lale, kenevir ve patates- ile ilişkilendirip bu bitkilerin nasıl insanoğlunun en temel dürtülerini hoşnut etmek için evrildiğini gösteriyor.
Çok merak edersem gider okurum; sadede gel, u çek ve konuyu anlat.Kendisi bir botanikçi (öyle diyor?) Ve oldukça evrimci yaklaşıyor, bunda bir problemim yok ancak böyle birinin çıkıp bir anda kendince yorumlarından yola çıkarak adem ve havvaya sıçraması -ki elma bölümünde değil :D- garibime gidiyor.
Yani elbette her çiçekten bal alsın ve kaos yaratsın demiyorum ama, -ki bence blog havasının olmasına sebep olarak- her bitki için bir-iki örnek var.
Pollan stretches it for nearly 60 pages.
He repeats himself (a lot); he circles around; he includes details about people he's met that are irrelevant and not all that interesting.So far, so three star book.The section on pot, though, gets hilariously loopier.
Non-pot-fans might find this chapter less endearing than I did, but for me, as a casual fan of the drug and, more importantly, as a guy who finds the question of what mind-altering drugs do for us interesting, it was the best part of the book.
this was like NPR in printed form, and felt intended to be read in that medium. the potato chapter was great, the marijuana chapter irritating, the tulip chapter needlessly verbose (but full of some of the book's best trivia), the apple chapter...quixotic. it's all grotesquely bucolic, and the lack of any synthesis at the end left me underwhelmed. short, and by all means worth reading if it's all you have available.
I really enjoyed this book (and enjoyed the lecture I attended when the author talked about the book and answered questions.) He talks about 4 crops: apples, potatoes, tulips and marijuana, and the interactions between them and humans: history, culture, human psychology, and science, etc. I knew nothing much about botany and have never been particularly interested in that branch of science, but this book was a very easy read and I found it extremely fascinating. Gave it as a gift on a couple of occasions after I read it.
I couldn't get into this book at all and gave up reading it after the first chapter. The premise was a good one, but Pollan's writing style drove me up the wall. I called it quits when he started analogizing Johnny Appleseed and Dionysius. Too much navel-gazing and not enough substance.
Could that be it--right there, in a flower--the meaning of life?"By the time a reader has finished this book they'll know more about apples, tulips, marijuana, and potatoes than ever before.
Every topic in this book was subjected to the Apollo vs.
Surely there's no rational basis for this difference.The last section on the potato came down pretty hard on genetically engineered plants.
Without flowers, we would not be,” writes Michael Pollan in his absolutely engaging book on the way plants and humans have lived and evolved together.
Description: Every schoolchild learns about the mutually beneficial dance of honeybees and flowers: The bee collects nectar and pollen to make honey and, in the process, spreads the flowers’ genes far and wide.
In The Botany of Desire, Michael Pollan ingeniously demonstrates how people and domesticated plants have formed a similarly reciprocal relationship.
He masterfully links four fundamental human desires—sweetness, beauty, intoxication, and control—with the plants that satisfy them: the apple, the tulip, marijuana, and the potato.
What a fruitcake that man was.Triumph tulipsMarijuanaIn my mind's eye, the author is named Pollen.Thoroughly enjoyed this.
Recommended.TR The Omnivore's Dilemma4* The Botany of Desire
A brief but compelling history of four plants whose genetic destiny has been markedly altered by man – the apple, the tulip, cannabis, and the potato.
It’s a wonderfully engaging trip, made all the more so by Pollan’s lucid, thoughtful, frankly lovely writing.
I haven’t enjoyed a spot of nonfiction prose on a purely esthetic level in a long time, and for that pleasure alone I could recommend this book.As for the argument – how best to put this – it’s not so much one.
I just fervently hope no one came away from this book believing this is what is meant by “theory of evolution.”Eclectic, engaging subject matter.
It also sets the stage nicely for O.D.Here, using apples (with their amazing capacity to evolve based on seeds that don't grow true to the parent), tuplips, cannabis and potatoes Pollan sets out plainly the case that Richard Attenborough made several years before: that both humans and the foods they eat co-evolve.
In the final chapter, he begins to describe the connundrum of monoculture that he deals a death-blow to in O.D (in that anyone who reads it will understand for once and for all what a death-blow to humanity monoculture is).I loved this beautiful book.
This may be my favorite Pollan book of all time. It's so beautifully written and full of wonder at the plant world. The section on tulips as a flower embodying Apollo and Dionysus and about the apple were just brilliant. However, I do think the goes a little nuts about GMOs at the end. I'm tempted to go with him into skepticism, but I am not sure it's warranted. I think the dangers of monoculture are real, but I am not as concerned about the GMOs as he is
Michael Pollan takes a simple question - Have we domesticated plants or have plants domesticated us?- and to make a case for the latter, provides us with a heady mix of history,science,philosophy,botany,literature and what not, punctuating the text with juicy anecdotes, which I must say made for a truly spell-binding read.The bumblebee thinks that he is the subject in the garden and the bloom he's plundering for its drop of nectar is the object.
And the potato section was downright scary.One heck of a captivating read!
Pollan's The Botany of Desire is by far one of the best books I have ever read, and it is one of those books that has changed my world view for the better.
Pollan takes his readers on an odyssey through the natural histories of four plants that have been important to the course of human history, and relates them to a certain form of desire that he believes to be inherent in each and every person.
He chronicles the potato (sustenance), the tulip (beauty), cannabis (pleasure), and the apple (sweetness).
His prose is unrivaled, and he draws readers into his narrative with seamless ease.
The altered perspective displays the multiple props of genetic diversity — color, shape, size, fragrance, taste and robustness — offered to seduce the gardener's favors.
Of course Pollan realizes that intent cannot be ascribed to the plant.
The third section is titled “Desire: Intoxication/Plant: Marijuana.” Some readers might be tempted to skip ahead to this intriguing chapter.
The apple of chapter 1 is a plant of extreme biodiversity.
The seeds John Chapman planted with both evangelical and entrepreneurial zeal sprouted all manner of fruit, most of it harvested for cider.
By contrast “Desire: Control/Plant: The Potato (chapter four) chronicles a recurring tragedy of monoculture.
whatever, michael pollan; you may not be happy about it, but you've allowed me to feel WAY SUPER COMFY about my visceral hatred for such essays as "walking," which, even if i'm humming along comfortably for a while, underlining & marking, suddenly breaks out such gems as "I THINK THAT THE FARMER DISPLACES THE INDIAN EVEN BECAUSE HE REDEEMS THE MEADOW, AND SO MAKES HIMSELF STRONGER AND IN SOME RESPECTS MORE NATURAL" (caps & emphasis mine, obvs), or the bullshit about the "weapons" ("the bush-whack, the turf-cutter, the spade, and the bog-hoe, rusted with the blood of many a meadow") that make the farmer's ability to "redeem" nature far superior to the unskilled following of the indian to natural occurring sources of food, or whatever fuck'd & self-contradictory political ramblings, oh my GOD i am so grossed out.thoreau, you were probably a pretty cool dude once, but right now you seem like a libertarian w/ out the constitution, a naturalist w/out a respect for (or knowledge of) real nature, a man opposed to the press who finds himself entrenched in its habits.
Highly recommended reading for anyone who's ever eaten or seen a plant!
Only individuals have that, and individuals bees, potatoes, or water buffalo do not (to our knowledge), willfully offer themselves up as partners to humanity.Pollan draws an interesting distinction that I haven't encountered in my amateur meanderings between "wilderness" and "wildness." He uses "wilderness" in the sense of the Wilderness Act of 1964, "an area where the earth and its community of life are untrammeled by man, where man himself is a visitor who does not remain." "Wildness," on the other hand, is anything that humans cannot control.
At the risk of spreading a metaphor too thin, Pollan suggests that drugs could be thought of as mutagens, radiation nuking the genetic fundaments of culture, producing mostly irrelevant or deleterious nonsense, but now and again creating viable gems (149).
The chapter on the apple was sort of enlightening, but had too much obsession with Johnny appleseed.The chapter on Tulips was really boring.Pollan's evolutionary/philosophical speculation in this chapter is all wrong.Many scientific facts, too, are misguided or incorrect.
Being a little self-reliant in these unsettling times gives me a sense of stability and hope.In this book, Pollan takes a look at four plants and relates them to human desires, I think .
Johnny's enthusiasm for the apple and his desire to plant the seed (and refusal to graft) results in the many varieties that adapted to new climates.
Though I'm learning a lot about Johnny here, I'd rather have more factoids about the apple.
In a kind of a meandering, relaxed writing style,  Michael Pollan tells the tale of apples, tulips, cannabis, and potatoes and their co-evolution with human desire.
Although I agree somewhat with his premise---that plants also influence human desires, not just vice versa---I never found that he fully developed a convincing proof of it.
I think he could definitely use a little more fire under his feet in setting out to write a book.
