https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16085481-crazy-rich-asians
Ten years ago, I remember being addicted to a blog (now defunct) called "pinkshoefetish" where one Daphne Teo of Singapore documented every single materialistic extravaganza in her life - endless Tod's bags, Chanel, the luxurious apartment she (or her parents) rented when she was at Purdue (no stinky student dorms for her), her endless jet-setting to the most expensive hotels and restaurants in New York, London, Paris, etc.
When Singaporean Chinese "blue blood" Nick takes his American Chinese girlfriend Rachel home, his family is concerned that, yes, she might be a gold-digger, but their suspicions are heightened by the fact that she was - to their horror - born in mainland China, to a single mother (more strikes against her!).
"Imagine wanting to marry a girl from such a family! So disgraceful! Really, Nicky, what would Gong Gong say if he was alive? Madri, this tea needs a little more sugar." This is some seriously trashy crack-lit. And no that's not a typo-- this book is as addictive and dramatic and ridiculous as you surely imagine it to be. I should probably hate it, but, well... oops.You've definitely got to be in the mood for it or you'll wonder why you're actively murdering your brain cells. And I guess I was
oops.You've definitely got to be in the mood for it or you'll wonder why you're actively murdering your brain cells.
Crazy Rich Asians follows the drama and scandals of some of East Asia's wealthiest families.
Also, Rachel has no clue how rich Nicky is-- hell, is she in for a shock!Then there's the beautiful Astrid, whose husband is probably having an affair, and she is about to go investigating to find out.
Plus there's a bunch of other subplots about what these ridiculously rich people get up to.
Maybe it's because I'm nosy and enjoy the drama of other people's lives.
Maybe it's because these superficial rich people problems are an enjoyable break from the real world.
I did not expect to be as invested as I was!I’m not particularly taken with many of the characters although I see their individual value to the story.
Though this is not the most ground-breaking cast of characters I’ve ever read, I can see myself becoming more invested in their lives as the series progresses.I really enjoyed my time reading Crazy Rich Asians.
I initially went into this book thinking I would be satisfied reading just the first installment and not finishing the series, but after finishing, I absolutely need to know where the story goes.
I think another Goodreads reviewer said it best: "Shallow characters don't mean shallowly written characters."And in the case of this book, the author didn't pick up on that memo.
Shallow characters can be delightfully, wickedly compelling when they're written well.
Slow clap.Yes, this is a rather scathing review but I really don't understand all the hype surrounding this book, and I was hoping for more, well, substance (yes, from a glittery gold and hot pinkbook called Crazy Rich Asians, I know.
But I think the setting and characters had some originality, timely relevance and promise and the author didn't deliver).
This mindless fluff, set among the über-wealthy denizens of Singapore, was entertaining.But here’s the thing: part of why I like mindless fluff, part of why I keep reading it despite plot holes and ridiculous, unrealistic twists that drive me nuts, is that I’m guaranteed an ending.
Because that’s the only thing that makes this ending even sort of acceptable (although, even if it is the first of a series, this book needed more in the way of a resolution).
Also, even having read the sequel, my opinion stands: even individual books in a series need closure.
Anyone else super excited for the movie to come out?I saw the trailer about a dozen times, and I decided that instead of eating my fingers while waiting for it to hit the cinemas, I would read the book.Best decision ever.
There is a humongous amount of characters introduced, and so by reading about them first, you’ll be able to spot them more easily in the movie and thus enjoy their crazy personalities more.Though I’m not sure just how much from this first book the movie contains, because those were some packed, juicy four hundred pages.
nothing like a bunch of crazy, rich asians to make me feel like a boring, poor white girl. \_(ツ)_/gosh, this book is wild. its a story lush in couture, and drama, and private jets, and drama, and more money than one even knows what to do with. oh, and did i mention the drama? its basically high-class catty gossip and i am here for it. such a funny and entertaining story that deserves all the attention its been getting recently! also, i do think its worth mentioning that i saw the film before i r
its a story lush in couture, and drama, and private jets, and drama, and more money than one even knows what to do with.
also, i do think its worth mentioning that i saw the film before i read this.
and i know i am committing blasphemy by admitting it, but i actually think i prefer the film.
not that the book isnt good, i just think that when it comes to a certain level of cattiness and gossip amongst 20+ characters where body language and looks are significant, its much easier to translate across a screen and more effective for the story.
the book too, but definitely the movie!↠ 4 stars
But, I have lots of books I needed to read, so I didn’t mind waiting, and it helped that once I did get a copy I found myself totally immersed in the saga of these fantastically wealthy Asians, their romantic ups and downs, and their family dramas.
The author skips back and forth among the characters, giving each of them a moment in the spotlight, but mainly the focus is on the possibly doomed romance between Rachel and Nick and the breakdown of Astrid’s marriage due to class differences and the strain of pretending to be someone you aren’t.
It was precisely what I had hoped for, a fun, fluffy read full of delectable "gossip" and drama, and to top it off the diversity of an all asian cast to boot.
While it did feel a bit long for a fluffy read, it was kind of nice having a book on the side that I could pick up and put down as I felt lead; truly the perfect read to fill in between the gaps of heavier and darker stories.

One day Nick invites her to go with him to Singapore to attend his cousin's wedding and she agrees.As soon as Rachel and Nick arrive at Singapore and meet his family, she realizes that Nick's family is filthy rich.
Not just wealthy but $200,000-a-dress wealthy and this is a fact that he's failed to disclose to her.Rachel soon finds herself dealing with nosy relatives, sumptuous meals, scheming social climbers, private jets, and drama, tons of drama.
I am excited to see the movie and was happy to learn that Michelle Yeoh will be playing one of the main characters Eleanor Sung-Young.
I bought a copy of Crazy Rich Asians when it was first released because the sparkly gold cover drew my eye – and my wallet, apparently – like a magpie to all that glitters.
A series of comical events ensues over this few weeks, which we, the readers, are privy to.The first thing you’ll notice, from page one, is that Crazy Rich Asians is ALL THE WAY OVER THE TOP as if Kwan just threw every lavish thing he could think of in there, including the deluxe, chef-grade kitchen sink!
Plus, when you’re reading an e-book, it’s a huge hassle to have to refer back to the family tree.
But the Crazy Rich Asians family tree is kind of catty and fun, so I decided to keep an open mind.
Because, family tree and endnotes aside, I still didn’t like the book.
Despite the fact that they’ve been together for two years, Rachel knows nothing about Nick’s background and family and friends (it comes as a complete surprise to her that his family is crazy rich).
Basically, the book tries to make fun of crazy rich Asians, by showing that they’re snobby and elitist and old-fashioned.
how to be a bad bookworm:- watch the movie without reading the book- wait 4 months- add the book to your TBR once you can no longer resist hopping on the bandwagon
It’s fun and easy, a beach read.
While Nick is an only child, this book encompasses his extended family.
It’s materialism taken to the nth degree; like a house with a living room designed to recreate Versailles Hall of Mirrors.
By the end, I admit I was skimming over some of the more decadent descriptions.
But like sugar, there is also an addictive quality to this book.
I kept picking this book up, reading just a bit more, anxious to see how it ends.
You’ll need to read book two and I wasn’t enthralled enough to invest the additional hours.
Fun and dishy. So over the top it becomes nauseating in the way of such books. It's just too much. A parodic parody.
They are crazy and they are rich. That is pretty much all I got out of it. 10% in and I can't stand to read any more of this vapid book. Somehow it was not the guilty pleasure I was looking for. Returning it back to the library.
I can’t believe I actually finished this book because this was really bad.
Basically, according to this book, all rich people in Singapore are snobbish and bad human beings.
They can’t even see beyond their rich way of thinking when a down-to-earth person approaches them and tries to make them see things from a different perspective.
Actually, what they do instead (according to this novel) is to turn that down-to-earth person into someone who actually enjoys the crazy life style of jet planes, mansions, designer dresses and yachts because “no woman or man can ever really turn that down”.
One of the best scenes, that comes closest to the kind of story I think Kwan is trying to write, has Rachel listening in awe as a group of women kindly tell their friend that it's not even worth her time to marry a man worth only a few millions - and then they proceed to itemize all of her future expenses, from country club fees to private school tuition, to illustrate why this millionaire is too poor to support her lifestyle.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Words cannot express how much excite I have for the upcoming film version of this book - but this gif does a pretty decent job : ) Rachel Chu has NOOOOOO idea what she’s getting into when she agrees to accompany her boyfriend Nick to his best friend’s wedding in Singapore. As professors struggling to make tenure in New York City, Rachel and Nick live a very modest lifestyle. Little does Rachel know that Nick’s upbringing was ANYTHING b
Rachel Chu has NOOOOOO idea what she’s getting into when she agrees to accompany her boyfriend Nick to his best friend’s wedding in Singapore.
Little does Rachel know that Nick’s upbringing was ANYTHING but simple.
After stepping off the plane, Rachel finds herself tossed into a whirlwind of palace-like homes, private jets and haute couture – all with a man she’s starting to realize she doesn’t really know at all.I don’t even know what to say about this book.
4 Stars because I’m greedy with my 5-Star ratings and the last 100 pages lost a little of the mojo that had propelled the first three-quarters of the book.
Crazy Rich Asians is part satire, part romance, part family drama, part Mean Girls, and 100% entertaining. When it comes down to it, the lesson learned is that every parent wants their child to be set up for success in the best possible way, even though the method may seem maddening. It is the first installment in a series by the same name and I am excited to continue. Check it out!! My favorite quote:"There is nothing in the world that good food cannot fix."
A fun and wildly entertaining summer read.

Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestHi, let me tell you about this book. It was SO good and I say that honestly (#NotSponsored). But seriously, you know that I'm not afraid to take the utter piss out of an over-hyped book (see anything I've reviewed by Sarah J. Maas), so when I read something like this and say it's awesome, please know that I have absolutely no reason to lie. CRAZY RICH ASIANS is crazy good.So what's it about? Well, the story itself isn't that original. We've
The book ends in a very inconvenient and unfinished spot (probably because there are two sequels), but it feels very anticlimactic since things are never really squared with Eleanor, Nick's scheming snobby mother, Francesca, the resident mean girl, and also between Nick and Rachel themselves, who are a constant will they/won't they?
I'm not saying any of these things are unrealistic of anyone's experience within social circles like this, I'm just pointing them out for anyone who may be hurt by these topics and wish to avoid.I can't personally speak to the Singaporean and Chinese representation but I did enjoy having this peek into these characters lives.
I wish the story had focused more on Nick and Rachel so that we could get more invested in them.Despite these things, it was still enjoyable and I've requested the sequel.
Yes, I gave in to the hype.
Yes, it was worth it.This was such an entertaining read from start to finish.
Character driven stories are my absolute favourite when it comes to contemporary fiction and Crazy Rich Asians doesn't disappoint.
There are so many characters, but yet they were easy to keep track of as they all had their own unique characteristics.
While reading this story, I kept thinking, "there's no way that families could actually be this rich...", but according to some research...this is all too real.
which one of these names should I be retaining for future chapters?" The first part also read like a Sky Mall catalogue for the rich and famous, the whole novel had zero comedy, it had these flashbacks of unnecessary origin stories for friendships/relationships that just increased the never ending page count but added nothing to the plot, it had exposition up the wazoo that was brought in with the guise of gossiping communities and then the author decided to give lengthy chapters to the most nauseating spoiled character in the world (Eddie).
Also, the authors knowledge of his subject is made clear when he starts putting his personal experiences in the chapter footnotes (which also act as a a lazy way to use native language).
Then there's the method of story telling through chapter POV.
This works when 1) an author truly stays in that one character's head for the entire chapter and 2) Character's POV are needed for the story and not just because the author had a scene he couldn't bring himself to cut from the book even though it adds nothing but fluff to the book.
Kwan fails miserably at this style of story telling.
Loved this! It definitely got heaps better towards the end, but I hated the slurs that were often used and unchallenged.
Ouch!
Moved to Singapore from the USA 30 years ago, met a Singapore Girl and drank the Kool Aid. Singapore is somewhere between Nirvana and Utopia, civil society, great education system and FOOD to die for.
Sadly, this roman a clef hits close to home and raises the curtain on the behavior of ultra rich Ferrari driving jet setters.
But it's hilariously funny and contains a wealth of Hokkien swear words to enrich your vocabulary.
When I asked the tai tai for translations I almost got my face slapped.
Don't think graduates of Anglo Chinese School will like this book.
It gets down and dirty.
