https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/634141.Monkey_Grip
Martin, Nora’s current fella, who is “teetering on the dizzy edge of smack” says he’s going back to ‘the others’ at Disaster Bay (National Park), why don’t Nora and Javo, who happens to be sitting with them, go with him?
Nora falls for Javo and his “violent blue eyes”, and Javo falls for her and there’s lots of lazy, drug-addled, sometimes explicit love-making (and it is love for them while it’s happening), but we’re not always sure if Gracie is in her bunk bed in another room or if she’s camped on Nora’s floor, as she often does.Javo is a hard-core junkie.
My interest in Australian women writers has always been keen, and if anything, it is a genre that is growing with interest.Helen Garneris an author I should have read by now, so I did borrow this from work with interest.
The protagonist, and young single mother of one, never seems to deal with her child (where is she most of the time?!) and there is no clear depth or oomph to the story.
Do you see what I mean?!Maybe I'm too young to 'get' this one, I was a boring child of the nineties!I will read more of this authors work, I guess I am interested to see how she has grown with her craft.
I picked out in the dimness the bony lantern of his head and his eyes and teeth gleaming with that fierce smile, I came joyfully with no hesitation: but then the fact of his being stoned made itself apparent, for he did not come, and his body went on trembling and burning, cock hard and face turning again and again to my mouth in the dark, long after my energy had been exhausted and I wanted to fall away and go to sleep."I was really stunned by how contemporary this book is, how while reading it I constantly forgot it was penned nearly 40 years ago.
To start, I have to say that I think Garner has a magical way with words - I felt transported to the scenes they were so well crafted.
is my version missing pages?" Hence my problem with this book: the story itself was a little too meandering for my taste.Don't get me wrong, I got the point of where/why the story was constructed this way and I normally love open-ended reflective pieces.
A real empath wrote this book.
The crystal clear memory, and the nature of that attention, tell the story of one of the classic personality types that are often among the arts.
The pacing, the dropping by and comings and goings, the phone as an extension of place, not person.
Many adults today do not have a memory of that way.
People who live by feeling in this way are often misread, but her tolerance is a dialectic that favors love, and she had an effect on me of literally wearing the shoes of others.
As part of the gradual hardcover re-release of her entire catalogue, I was sent this new (suprisingly clean and beautiful blue, considering the content) copy of Monkey Grip for a re-read and was just totally blown away all over again.
It's a love story I shouldn't be able to relate to at all: I've never dated a junkie, never been polyamorous, and have never dated with a child, and yet I am aching and gutted for Nora.
Truth-bombs about human nature are sprinkled effortlessly here and there, as though they are like any of the other simple observations for which we've come to know and love Garner.
Garner's 1970's story is utterly urban, and incredibly hipster - it would break the hearts of modern loose fringed copycats.
People ride their bikes around from one inner city Melbourne share house to another, swapping beds, children and needles, and rarely seem to go to work.
The writing is rich and sensual and the supporting characters are rain, sun, wind, heat, the feel of a dark backyard and that moment of falling in to bed, exhausted and drunk.
They have names like Georgie, Paddy, Chris and Joss, and she often leaves their gender hanging for some time.
It also means I don't care too much about them.Nothing seems to work, no one ever quite gets there.
I got a lot out of this book - and there's a lot to get, for a patient reader.
Nora is (in no particular order) an actor, a woman in love, a mother, a some-time drug taker, a part of a hippie community/commune, a feminist, a writer for a feminist magazine.
We are taken through the year or so of Nora's relationship with Javo, a junkie, during 1975 (and a bit on either side).
What one learns from this book is up to the reader.
If you trust to Ms Garner, you will be lifted by the current and brought safely to the end of the book.
Helen Garner just *gets it*:  "I'm going home.
See you when I see you."He caught me on the hop.
But I was well-disciplined by the orthodoxy, a fast faker.
I was sitting at my table.
Intimate in a non-personal way, Monkey Grip is a bit like reading someone's diary.
Reading it feels like an experiment in being in someone else's head.
I also felt like Sheila Heti was trying to create something similar with How Should a Person Be?
- but Monkey Grip feels far more genuine!Oh, and I think this should be the cover photo:
I also love that she is from Melbourne - this wonderful sense of familiarity washes over me when she refers to specific places that evoke a lot of memories for me.
This book was written well before my time, and a lot of things have changed in Melbourne, but many are still the same; drugs are just as rife now as they were in the 70s, but the culture is a lot different.I liked this novel a lot, mainly due to the relationship dynamics that it explores, but reading it was frustrating.
It's Garner's subtle, yet powerful, descriptions of people and places that make this book worth reading.
This, her first novel - now an modern Australian classic - focuses on Nora, a single mother in her early 30s, and her relationship with Javo, an off-again, on-again heroin addict.
At the heart of this novel is the idea of addiction - whether it is Javo's addiction to junk, or Nora's addiction to human connection - and how it influences our decisions in life, and affects those around us, in spite of our best intentions and expectations.Garner's prose style is effortless, yet strikes the emotional core of all her characters.
I cannot see what all the fuss was about when this was first published in 1977.What a slog. Repetitious, boring, cliched. To think this book launched Helen Garner's career is astounding.
By the time this book was published she was living in a commune in Tasmania with my one year old sister.
Her strength of character and ability to muse on the world, with all her weaknesses and flaws, made her into an endearing and believable character.And I have to say that I enjoyed Gracie too.
Often I feel uncomfortable about the role authors give to children in their narratives but Gracie seemed so well balanced.
And love was what the book was ultimately all about.
Although constantly being hurt, you can feel the strength of the giant bubble of constant love that Nora is solidly buffeted by.
After a reasonably good start, the story rapidly becomes dull as Nora keeps thinking poorly about herself yet still taking addict Javo back every time he wanders into her house or her life.
She is as addicted to Javo as he is to dope.A bit too much like a boring soap opera with all the drama taken out, this book was as much of a disappointment as the characters it describes.
I tried reading this a long time ago, and couldn't be bothered with it. It was on my book group's reading list, so I bought a second hand copy but could not make myself try again. I gather from the discussion in the group that I made the right choice. See http://anzlitlovers.wordpress.com/200... for why I really dislike this author's work.
Garners prose is just magic. She could write a cleaning manual and I’d give it 5 stars. The trials and tribulations of drug culture is always a rough read, but Garner does it in a way like no other. I wish I’d read this in my youth instead of Kerouac and Bukowski. I know I’ll read it again, just to lose myself in that visceral writing of hers.
I love this book and reread it every couple monthsAlso good reads is asking me to rate its app but I'll rate it right here because I can't be bothered going into iTunes:The goodreads app is excellent! If you're reading this on the website grab your phone and install it now
Loved it, love Helen Garner's style, like an Australian form of Beat. Direct with emotions that crash with severity rather than flutter descriptive flourish. Fascinating description of the period and Melbourne. Will look up the movie now.
Sorry boring. Page after page of repetitive bore. Save your time - read candy by Davis instead
This was a great reading experience, Garner's writing paints beautiful pictures of a 70's Melbourne, her emotions (or sometimes lack there of) palpable as you read on. Despite this, I didn't come away with too much, as I felt there was no real or fleshed out resolution to Nora's internal struggles.
Aside from how great it was that this book was set in a part of Melbourne I'm pretty familiar with, Helen Garner's writing totally blew me away.
This book was a great lesson for me about how effective 'simple', conventionally un-literary writing can be.
One of my favourite lines was "And as the day began we lay together in my bed in the empty house and made love: we went into each other.
I looked at his face and it opened and blossomed under my eyes." But then, it's impossible to pick just one great line, nearly every sentence opens up some kind of amazing visual in your mind!
Just beautiful. This story is so full of so much warmth I feel like I'm glowing when I think about it. I'll come back with a better review when I can say something slightly more sensible.
3.5✪'sInteresting read about life in 1970s Australia.
The first half of the novel was very difficult to sympathise and connect with on a healthy level due to my own bias and experiences, however, once I allowed myself to have an open mind I began to really enjoy it.
I recommend this book to a lot of people, but it something you really need to keep an open mind with.
It is very easy to slip into the mind set of 'Nora, you're just being stupid, stop chasing after this guy or seeking validation from this situation blah blah blah'; empathy is needed when reading this book.
A hard read in some ways. Not only because it abandons the temptation to do big 'plotty' things with the story, but also because it upends so many of our assumptions about what relationships are like, even the non-conformist, non-monogamous ones. It leaves you with not much of a handle on anything, and I am guessing that's where it draws its power from.
Maybe worthy of 4 stars? The star rating is irrelevant— you should definitely read this aimless romantic tale of Nora’s on again, off again relationship with her junkie lover & also keep a running list of all the excellent novels she is constantly devouring as inspiration of what to read next.
I read an essay about what was missing in the Australian canon and I realized that I have read very little from Australia. The book was fantastic, but I wish there was more about the non-romantic relationships.
Read this so long ago, I can't do a meaningful or detailed review.What I CAN say though - is this book "knocked me for six" (as they say in cricketing speech).
I was simultaneously enthralled, depressed and heart-broken.
I could see so many of my friends' lives in this book, and most importantly, this book opened my eyes to the corrosively addictive nature of love - in my own relationship at the time, as well as those of others I knew.Must read it again to see if I am still as blown away thirty years later.P.S. The film was astonishingly good too!
I read this as a teenager, loved the sex and drugs and cycling round Melbourne ... but found Nora excruciating. Now, 30 years later, I love the words Helen Garner finds to describe love and loneliness and the pain of the love you can’t shake, but can’t be sure of ... and I find my judgemental 15-year old self excruciating.
What I loved most in this book was the lyrical language Garner employs in her descriptions of dryness.
Yet, when the plot refused to untangle itself at the end, I was left wondering if the text couldn't have used a good fifty page cut (maybe thirty?) and a more clearly defined climax.Nevertheless, Monkey Grip offers an intimate portrait of the emotional and philosophical life of a true liberated woman circa 1970, as well as all the vicious irony inherent to the whole-cloth feminist stance prevailent then.
