https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1440148.Little_Fuzzy
And more than that, this may also be read as either an allegory for an individual’s relationship between big business and big government; also for a statement about indigenous people's rights.Many critics have noticed the libertarian themes to this work (Piper was nominated posthumously for the Prometheus Hall of Fame Award for Best Classic Libertarian SF Novel in 1997), but I must observe that big business was cast as the villain early in and it was big government that came in to save the day.
Even with all the cuteness overload Little Fuzzy only reads like a children’s book half the time, the other half is a more mature exploration of the meaning of sapience* and a theme of understanding and compassion toward less civilized, sophisticated or educated folks.
I find the aliens too cute and too anthropomorphized to be believable, for example they think of humans as “the Big Ones” who are mostly good and want to live with them for comfort and protection.
I mean ideas.” I like how Little Fuzzy developed into a courtroom drama where the aliens’ sapient status is at stake.
Great storyLittle Fuzzy is a story that got me thinking, kept me entertained, had a happy ending, and reminded me of old fashion sci-first books.
It's been a while since I read that, but I'm wondering just how close a homage should be to the original.
I'm also wondering why Scalzi bothered.
Sure, there were a few outdated elements such as typewriters, tapes, & developing movie film, but they weren't bad - just gave it a bit of flavor.
I'm sure some will knock this for the lack of female characters, but the one it did have was very well done.
Only having one made sense given the frontier, the almost western flavor, of the novel & the times.
He was a hoot.I highly recommend reading this before Scalzi's book.
First I'd like to say that this isn't really a review of Scalzi's Fuzzy Nation.
It's a comparison of Scalzi's Fuzzy Nation and Piper's original Little Fuzzy.
Scalzi's Fuzzy planet is a much more dangerous place than Piper's.
That, I think bothered me the most.That's not to say that Piper doesn't have some points over Scalzi.
Little Fuzzy has a more richly complex plot that makes it feel like it's the longer book (it's not) and left me feeling more replete.
Scalzi does a great job of piquing interest in Piper's work, fuzzy and not fuzzy.
This one those special classic sf books that you look for because people have told you how good it is. Do know what ? they were 100% right too.So if can find these books even if there taty don't put it back buy it .
This book introduces some of the politically-incorrect ideas that Scalzi avoided entirely, which permeate the sequel Fuzzy Sapiens to a greater degree.
Politically incorrect in that the fuzzies are at the same time considered "people" but are also adopted by humans and treated as though they were children - sounds like a preferred method for dealing with a primitive society whose intelligence doesn't seem to have developed to your level yet.But these criticisms are minor in the first book, even though they impact the sequel more so.
(And then the final book in Piper's trilogy, Fuzzies and Other People, redeems things for the most part.)A classic SF must-read novel.

3.0 stars. A good, fast read that will make you smile. The tone reminded me a lot of some of Clifford Simak's work (i.e., down home, rural SF with a heart). Also a nice exposition on what it means to be a sentient being. A recommended classic. Nominee: Hugo Award for best Novel (1963)
No one can leg sweep you, flip you on your back, then behead you just so they can slurp on your tasty insides--in fact I'm pretty sure fuzzies love eating land-prawns.(view spoiler)[ Piper misses the mark in documenting the protection of the ditsy fur bearing "fuzzies" of the genus Fuzzy-Fuzzy-Holloway, when he could have been documenting the attempted genocide of Landus-Prawnus-Tastyus.On the surface it seems like Jack Holloway saved the fuzzies, but those who really understand Zarathrusta know Holloway was manipulated by several land-prawn secret societies to identify with them, and as a byproduct saved the misunderstood and wrongly despised land-prawns.One should only read this if one wants to see how humans can be turned to your purposes by introducing them to anything that resembles a walking teddy bear.LP4l!
“If you don't like the facts, you ignore them, and if you need facts, dream up some you do like” I always saw this novel as an allegory of indigenous people's rights, with the fuzzies being its own culture but being seen as less due to their difference to humans.
However, the novel does a good job of exploring the meaning of what is like to be conscious being, and how others will try to demean entire cultures (in this case a species) in order to continue to reap the benefits provided by the land that would be considered stolen otherwise.
At under 300 pages the amount of world building that happens is amazing; it isn't particularly extensive but Piper creates such a plausible human colony and system on a future planet and it made sense.
The book brings up a lot of questions about what is an animal and what is a sapient being which I found to be an interesting topic that was informative and thought-provoking without ever bogging down the plot.
Overall, I found this an action-packed and thought-provoking read with an interesting plot and great world and character development.
Here's an oldie that I never got around to, but finally did thanks to the Scalzi reboot (which I haven't read yet - had to clear this one out of the way first).Little Fuzzy is cute.
The good guys are too competent and the bad guys are all bumbling idiots (except for the Big Bad, who completely disappears before the last third of the book - I guess he got while the gettin' was good).
In the end, Little Fuzzy was a pleasant, thought-provoking read, despite being about as suspenseful as an episode of The Andy Griffith Show.
This was a decent little story that I probably wouldn't have ever read if not for John Scalzi's reboot, Fuzzy Nation.
That book was just so awesome, I had to see about the source material.Also, this audiobook was a surprise attachment to the Fuzzy Nation audiobook, so it was right there.
Just press "play".That said, this wasn't as entertaining.
It was good, it's just that Fuzzy Nation was incredible.
That said, there wouldn't even be a Fuzzy Nation if it weren't for this book.On the audio, well.
The narrator also wasn't as good as Wil Wheaton.
My father was a huge fan of H. Beam Piper, and when I saw (randomly) that Little Fuzzy had been recorded by Librivox I thought “what the hell, if I don’t like it I can shut it off.” I did not shut it off. I listened raptly, and instead of being bored with “vintage Sci-Fi” I found a new genre to love. Classic Sci-Fi is so different from what is Sci-Fi today. It seems as though all the authors of the time worked in an understood universe where there were hundreds of planets that the Terran Federa
Beam Piper, and when I saw (randomly) that Little Fuzzy had been recorded by Librivox I thought “what the hell, if I don’t like it I can shut it off.” I did not shut it off.
It seems as though all the authors of the time worked in an understood universe where there were hundreds of planets that the Terran Federation colonized, that there were understood rules to the universe, and that literally anything could happen.
The characters are fantastic, the plot was set at a good pace, and it’s definitely one of Piper’s better books.
It’s still quite enjoyable, just in itself.
Ultra enjoyable! Lovely little sci fi character-driven first contact story that I picked up and read in one setting. On to the next in the series...I could tell that this story was completely plotted out before-hand. It was very tightly written with no red herrings or extraneous unnecessary material. As a reader, I respect that! And although first published in 1962, it didn't seem dated, except for all the smoking. (I don't think we'd exactly encourage teaching other species to smoke nowadays--unless you're working for a tobacco company and need new markets?)3.5 stars for me.
4 fuzzy little stars for this throwback to the golden age of SciFi, where a complete story could be written in less than 200 pages. Little Fuzzy is not complex, the good guys (and girls) are good and the bad guys get it in the end. Looking forward to Fuzzy Nation and had to get this one done first.
A Hugo finalist for best Novel in 1962 won by The Man in the High Castle. Still it is rare to read a book written in 1962 where the women characters and their treatment do not make you cringe. Maybe because this is listed as a juvenile novel the women characters are presented as professionals. Read it in one day as the pages flew by, great story arc which builds suspense and of course cute critters. Can be read by middle schooler to Senior Citizens.
I found this while browsing the paperback section of my local library, picked it up because the concept looked interesting, and ended up enjoying it a lot. I have purchased a copy to be part of my personal library and am likely to read the rest of the stories set in the world of Fuzzy Sapiens. It is a book that I would recommend.
And I love the way they name things (if a planet is known to be inhabited, they ask a native and write down whatever they say, regardless of whether it is an answer or not).There isn't a lot of truly advanced technology, other than space travel, from our current prospective.
I think this is important as a contrast to how isolated his life was before they showed up.Although there have been sequels written (both by Piper & others), this book really can stand on it's own.
Good guys are very good, bad guys are very bad except (view spoiler)[ when they've witnessed the error in their ways, which almost all of them do by the end (hide spoiler)], most of the conflict manifests in erudite scientists discussing what it means to be "salient" (no, literally, not facetious at all, that's the plot of the story), and there's never even a little bit of fear that evil will win.
And yet I loved it.I mean, it was like some kind of stunt, where H.
Piper takes this kind of dreadful, thwart-it-with-a-cross premise and makes it enjoyable.
I think I read Little Fuzzy about 30 or so years ago when I was in high school.
About 5-6 years later I got hold of Fuzzy Bones, which was the 3rd book, written for the series by a different author.
However I spent another 10 years or so re-reading the first 2 books, and pretending that there was no 3rd.
After Fuzzy Bones, it was a heady book :)I realize that Little Fuzzy and the rest of the series is terribly dated.
In fact I still re-read the series probably once a year or so.
Little Fuzzy is an old-school sci-fi novel which still has relevant things to say about corruption, bureaucracy, and bending the rules to your own ugly favour.The planet Zarathustra, at first thought nearly worthless, was sold by the interstellar government to a corporation, which discovered that Zarathustra had amazing mineral and natural wealth.
The copyright was never renewed and the story is now public domain.
I listened to Fuzzy Nation, written by John Scalzi, a couple of months ago.
It is the re-imagining of Piper's Little Fuzzy.
I was surprised and pleased to find that my audiobook also included the recording of Little Fuzzy.It was fascinating to see the differences in the two books, the same story but with some different twists and turns and some definite changes in the characters.
I can see why Little Fuzzy is considered a classic.
While I ended up giving both books 4 stars, for me, overall, Fuzzy Nation is the better book.

This book is the book upon which Fuzzy Nation is based. Though I waited a month and a half to read this one, they are just too similar to finish this now. I will pick it up in a few years.
Great fun. Well told. Raises obvious, but intriguing questions about recognizing sentience in others.
This one was actually absolutely adorable. It wasn't deep, and characters weren't perfectly drawn, but there was something irresistibly endearing about it.
Little Fuzzy is an official SF classic.
In other words we get to look at something from a slightly different angle.
Looking through a mirror darkly may grant clear vision.
Quick synopsis: sometime several hundred years from now the Zarathustra Company holds the rights to all the natural resources of the planet Zarathustra.
And this is planet rich in natural resources.
Dolphins and whales may be possessed of an intelligence similar to our own-we are still slaughtering them.
Would we recognize an intelligent species if we found them?
There is a lot of great food for thought in Little Fuzzy.
This was a very interesting book! Not only are the fuzzies cute but the book also explores the legality of ruling a species sapient, which is something I'd never really thought about before. Highly recommended!
