https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75479.The_End_of_Alice
(and,yes, those are also nouns and verbs - don't fight me when you know what i mean)the book is gross and uncomfortable and is far and away the best thing she has ever written.
it is even more pronounced in this book, when the object is a young boy.
and another reviewer claims this book is bad and that zombie by joyce carol oates is a better treatment of the same subject matter, but that is crazy-talk.
"The End of Alice" stars an imprisoned pedophile who has become pen pals with a 19-year-old woman who is dabbling in a similar avocation with a boy who is at that in-between age where he wants to see a naked girl, but also keeps a collection of his own scabs for snacking on, aged to create different tastes.
At the same time, he is telling about his own lurid past: a mentally unstable mother who coaxes him into providing her with sexual relief while they are sharing a bath, and later his relationship with the 12-year-old Lolita-esque Alice -- the relationship that ends with the loathsome narrator in prison and a submissive in a relationship with another inmate.
El fin de Alice, de Amy Homes, probablemente sea el libro más grotesco y perturbador que haya leído en mucho tiempo.
Jamás había leído un libro que tratara de una manera tan cruda la moralidad, manipulada con filosofía a través de un pedófilo (más exactamente condenado por hebefilia, en principio) recluido en la cárcel que, en sus memorias, va detallando con una precisión estremecedora sus delitos sexuales.
Pero esto no se queda ahí, puesto que en la vida del pedófilo entra en escena una joven que lo admira, y que tiene el propósito de conquistar y aprovecharse impúdicamente de un niño de 12 años, mientras cuenta sus planes y progresos a través de cartas impactantes que intercambia con el preso.

The narrator and the girl both remain unnamed, and the Alice of the title is one of the narrator's victims, a child he revisits in dreams and memories until the story builds to a terrible climax and we discover what form 'the end of Alice' took.I thought this book was excellent but, for obvious reasons, it is one I would hesitate to actually recommend.
Not everyone will be able to tolerate the explicit natutre of this book, but if you think you can stomach the themes, you MUST read it.I am indebted to Karen's excellent review for my interest in The End of Alice: I would never have read it otherwise, and what a memorable discovery it was.
Sections of this book are just gross beyond belief.
The final rolldown to credits...it's as if Homes herself can no longer abide her monster.
The last section of what happened with Alice is told in warp speed.
My humble opinion ---- if you're going to write about totally sick subject matter (one that might give the sick whacks out there a few good ideas), you'd better damn well blow me away with something worth my time (not this mediocre attempt at literary apotheosis).Feel free to disagree -- frankly, I'd love to hear a different opinion.
What an absolute waste of time this was.
it seems to me that she just really, REALLY wanted to shock you out of your cozy, middle-class, suburban old navy socks with this one.
i mean, there are some incredibly detailed sex scenes in the book and all of them involve a minor - a pre-teen minor.
i don't want to sound too jaded or whatever but i just wasn't impressed.
if you want to read a much better story written by a woman and told from the perspective of a male pedophile, read 'zombie' by joyce carol oates.
this book is just a much less subtle trek through already explored territory.
Nelle sue parole non sono mai riuscito a trovare quello che aspettavo: la quarta di copertina è sempre più ghiotta delle pagine scritte – le recensioni, la presentazione cui sono riuscito ad andare, tutto suscita interesse e attesa.
Mentre lei gli spiega con minuzia come sta seducendo-corrompendo il ragazzino, lui continua a leggere con crescente interesse e coinvolgimento, e continua a subire tutto quello che un detenuto subisce in carcere.Aggiungo che non è chiaro chi sta dentro e chi sta fuori dalle prigione.Si tratta di un argomento poco affrontato, almeno per le mie conoscenze, quindi, evviva, c’è da credere che l’autrice ci porterà a fare un viaggio nell’ignoto.

The obsession of Humbert Humbert, the sexual excesses of de Sade, and the twisted mind of a Hannibal Lecter. This book isn't for everyone, but if you can handle those things, it's quite a compelling read. Well written and an excellent execution of the unreliable narrator.
And it did feel like a gimmick.At 51%: I like the prison scenes.
The whole point of the book seems to be to shock with its increasingly disgusting imagery.
I don't really feel an emotional connection, good or bad.
I just read over these scenes and keep going.
Horrific scenes without a point are just that, horrific and gross, and have no redeeming value in itself.At 73%, the plot thickens: She wears war paint and carries a quiver filled with white arrows ending in blue suction cups and a bow to match.
What was the point of this book?
I just thought I should make that (the above) very clear.It starts out innocently enough a letter to a prisoner.
I thought "oh it is less than 300 pages, it should be a quick read and it will be like a Dateline episode".
Well, it was a quick read; once I started this was not something I wanted lingering around.
It is scary.(view spoiler)[ the fact the author chose to make the object of one sexual predator a boy hits home, I have a boy  (hide spoiler)]And it it not a nice clean sanitized Dateline episode.
One blurb on my book calls this a "love story".
In order to know them better we cannot ignore them.
The "twist" at the end of the book is pretty apparent early on (so much so that I'm not sure it is even meant to be considered a twist, although I'm sure some people would be surprised), and the story, such as it is, isn't all that interesting outside of the titillating explicitness of disgusting acts.That said, it is a very well-written and constructed novel.
It gets explicit, perhaps unnecessarily so, but I suppose that's part of it's charm, such as it is.I guess what I'm trying to say is I liked the book; it was, on the whole, an interesting read.
On the face of it, why should the thought of child abuse as entertainment be so shocking when it’s the premise of so many thrillers and crime novels?While I was reading this I was thinking of a horrifying painting by Christiaen van Couwenbergh called Three Young White Men and a Black Woman from 1632.
And yet it’s odd that I wouldn’t feel this way about enjoying Silence of the Lambs.The End of Alice has made me think about why I read.
Not just because of the haunting disturbing content, but because the author managed to create a narrator's voice that felt as though he was a real person of flesh and bones speaking to you through the text on each page.Reading the book I felt like I suddenly shrunk and was placed inside a small cage.
Occasionally he would look at me through the bars of my cage and speak directly at me.Reading this book was like looking into a whole new world, and it sucked me in from the first page onwards and would not let me rest until I kept reading that book.
I hate books like this.
I feel like giving a high rating signals I'm okay with pedophiles, rapists, and murderers.
But I picked up this book knowing it was going to make me squeamish and uncomfortable.
I don't want to sympathize so much as understand what makes them, well, who they are.Should I rate it on the author's style?
I wanted to know what was happening, where it was all going, what was the POINT?
The point is, you don't really get to know what's real and what's been fabricated.
But at the end of the book, at the end of Alice, I was okay with that.
I picked up this book looking for something uncomfortable to read. I certainly found that! What I wasn't expecting was a book so well written.5 STARS
So obviously, after reading the summary, and the reviews, I felt like I just needed to see if it was all true.
By the end of it I felt like I'd been forcibly subjected to it all against my will and was then left to deal alone- desolate, and shameful.I made it through the whole book basically trying to answer the question "why the hell am I reading this?".
It has been said that this book is a gratuitous piece of filth, and worse, that it is the kind of child pornography in the written form that a true pedophile would get off on.
Neither did I, but I guess the aftertaste of this story is alike of those - scabs.
Disturbing and unsettling, the book is extremely well written - despite all those literal and metaphorical scabs that made me feel like throwing up quite often, I couldn't stop reading.
Yes. Every psycho has his reasons, more or less twisted?
So 3 stars, because I'm not liking it at all, but since those scabs and blood stains are going to stay in my mind for some time – lets say I'm fucking impressed.
I hated the subject matter and honestly didn't think Id ever be able to read it.
(hide spoiler)]You can't even say this book was a car crash you just can't stop staring at because its more like a full on train collision.
honestly if you don't have a stomach of steel and the guts of a robot think twice before you read this book.So I hear you ask..why give it 4 stars?..
well the 4 stars are for the author and her alone, how the hell did she write a book like this and stay sane?
Another reviewer said this was "a great book about terrible things"-PERFECTLY said.
This was probably the darkest, most disturbing (and so gross in many, many parts) stories I've ever read-but it was so well written and paced.
I don't know how to recommend this book without looking freaky for liking it, but I had to find out what happened at the end.
No matter how many "dark" or "banned" books you've read, I really think this one is darker, probably...but captivating if you can get thru the icky scenes, which are numerous.
Se arroga, además, el derecho a filtrar, interpretar, «traducir» las cartas de la chica, a la que le atribuye su mismo apetito insano, tóxico, sus mismos motivos para abusar de niños, motivos que es menester resaltar, pues atraviesan toda la novela, son su médula espinal.
En la cárcel, cuando es violado por otro recluso -un castigo inmensamente merecido, kármico, incluso, que casi justifica lo vomitivo de la escena- se identifica más con una mujer que con un hombre, hace de su culo un coño subyugado.
Alice es una de las víctimas de Chappy.No puedo quitarle mérito al estilo de Homes.
For the full group discussion, including spoilers, go here: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...*What elements in the writing style did you like/dislike?I loved the frequent alliteration.
For example p37, "..some sharp thing slipped, and his prize patient, Mrs Mavis Gilette, woke to find a harpoon hole through her cheek and her lost licker languishing on the floor."I also loved the way the narrator speaks directly to the reader at several points.
I think it's really cleverly done.*What else did you enjoy?Chappie is the most unreliable of unreliable narrators (for a whole bunch of different reasons), so you find yourself sorting through everything he says to figure out what is real and what is not.
I asked around for people's recommendations about the most disturbing books they've ever read, and this one came up often.I read reviews here and plot summaries elsewhere, and I think people overhyped it a good bit.
The book is vulgar and unapologetic, yes, but I think the narrative suffers a good bit because of it.
Her part of the narrative had promise and I felt that was squandered and an ending slapped together in an effort to return focus to the narrator's story.
I tried to keep an open mind, but I couldn't help comparing the narrative voice with Humbert Humbert's and founding it wanting.  A pity, because I quite liked the other Homes' novel I read, "This Book Will Change Your Life".
Ugh!!!!! Really really did not like this book. It made my skin crawl. I like A.M. Homes and I have enjoyed her other works but not this one! It is about a convicted child molester and murderer. There are explicit scenes of child sexual abuse. Not my cup of tea.
A.M. Homes tells a story about convicted pedophile/child murderer whose mind seems to spin out of control during his correspondence with a 19-year-old girl trying to seduce a 12-year-old boy.
Very cleverly the reader is also a part of the story, made to wonder why am I reading this?
In the book women - or girls - are the ones who initiate all the actions.
While reading I sometimes identified strongly with the 19-year-old girl which was scary and surprising and I suppose that's the point of this book.
To make you think, look around, look inside yourself, question, stretch and define the borders of "normality".
Homes' prose, while graphic and vernacular, has a brutal honesty like a scholarly stream of consciousness, and leaves your jaw gaping.
The correspondence of a nineteen year girl home from college to a pedophile in prison marks an awakening for both participants and for the reader as well.
Holmes brings us places most couldn't imagine, as her depiction of this seemingly all-American girl has an unbelievably sinister and perverted side.
This plays right up to the fantasies of the pathetic convict, all the while dealing with the harsh realities of prison and his impending parole hearing.
After a while it felt like she was doing a lot of the disgusting scenes just for shock value.
There are too many gag inducing scenes.The story is told in a very inpersonal way.
When we get to the part about Alice, I found it a little hard to believe a girl could talk the way she did, do the things she did, but then again, I wasn't sure if the reader is supposed to be reading this as the sick fantasy of a man recounting how the end of Alice came to be.I have nothing good to say about this book.
Homes has earned her reputation as one of the leading literary voices of her generation, based on her exquisite style, her adventuresome structure, and her transgressive subject matter and characters.
Reviewers of THE END OF ALICE have concentrated on the shocking nature of the characters, a jailed pedophile and his penpal, a college girl with a taste for young boys.
For me, the attraction was structural, the way she used the time honored epistolatory form, moving the narrative forward, then back again, in and out of the present, the recent past, the distant past, memory and retelling --- creating almost another character that guides the reader along the trajectory of psychosis between these two people and the lives they've made for themselves.
