https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169756.Feed
3.5/5 stars - Read for my young adult literature class.
These kids don't seem to write much differently then the people talk in Feed, a dystopian teen novel about the a society all jacked into the internet through their heads.
Lets see we also have all those stupid fucking people on their handheld devices who are constantly texting messages, looking up things, reading their custom feeds and can't seem to go a couple of minutes without having to check up on what's going on in their cyber world.
You're going to punish him for making you uncomfortable with the world the way it is, for yourself because you know you use that word, like it or not.""Okay," I told the stupid analytic part of my brain.
In Anderson's world people are hardwired into corporate feeds that advertise to them according to what they're thinking, feeling, saying, looking at, etc.
I just have to keep kicking myself mentally whenever one slips out.ETA: I've been thinking about this book ever since I read it.
For all the dystopias I've been reading, I'm amazed that Anderson's world could discomfort me this much.
In fact, there's a Taco Bell nearby calling your name![image error]Just think of that taste as the steaming beef-like substance hits your tongue, with Taco Bell's savory blend of spices all ready to give you MOUTHGASM!
And then your conversation trails off because he really IS watching Archer, and now you're posting a status update b/c you've read another 20 pages in a book--BUT WAIT!
I guess the most annoying part of the whole internet-in-the-head thing would be the constant barrage of advertisements.
But RE: this book, it's a well-done mix of young adult literature and dystopia that manages a techno-teen speak that works and is more funny than annoying.
Titus and his friends do all sorts of unit things like frag around in clubs on the moon, wear whatever the hip new style of clothing is (I actually laughed out loud at the conversation about the geriatric chic clothing—canes, walkers, muumuus—and the riotware—the “Kent State Collection”), and go mal (malfunction) which is the equivalent of getting f*&ked up.
Sigh.This aspect of the book, actually thinking about the effects of disposable culture and (over)consumption really struck home for me.
I am so shocked and surprised to be saying that I loved this book. I was honestly expecting to hate it, but I think this is the most realistic portrayal of our future I've ever read. There's so much to take away from this book and I honestly think I'll be thinking about it for the rest of my life.
This, in my opinion, is the best written YA book I've ever read. The characterization is brilliant and unflinching, the details of the world absolutely spot-on, and the YA coming-of-age plot seamlessly worked into a brutal sci-fi story. When I grow up, I want to be M. T. Anderson.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
i was all set to hate it, especially after greg's review (which to be fair, was less about hating the book and more about hating the people this book might be hoping to educate) the wariness i had about it being in kidcode teenspeak was unnecessary - it was like reading clockwork orange or irvine welsh or anything else in dialect.
if you want to read a good review of the book, read greg's, because all i am going to say is - the moon sucks, i totally agree.
you can't have a dystopia with a steak labyrinth, because it sounds too much like heaven.
If you were to choose only one YA book to read in your lifetime, it should be this book.Feed portrays the near future world North Americans are currently barreling towards, and, as a result, this book is horrifying, terrifying, and brilliant all at the same time.
You don't need to read my review, you need to go out and read this book, now.
I keep it on my shelf because it's genius, but it's so chilling I can't stand to reread it.It's not often I agree with the big gun awards out there but Feed richly deserves its status as: National Book Award Finalist, star PW, and star Kirkus, it should have won the Newberry.
As seen on The ReadventurerI might feel uncertain if I actually liked Feed or not, but one thing I know for sure - the audio version of it is excellent.
Somehow, these ignorant pubescents manage to grow up and become functioning members of society and in fact are often at an advantage in our Twitter and Facebook-driven world.People have been predicting the end of the world due to technological or cultural changes since the dawn of days.
Every time there is a change in technology or culture, someone is crying apocalypse.You know what?
Will there be time when internet is directly plugged into our brains?
And all of that stuff is in Feed, so, really the two of us were up against a wall together and one of us was going to have to bend.What is good about Feed is that underneath all the School (tm) and the Weatherbee & Crotch half-jokes is an actual sort of genius story about a boy who for a second thinks he might change his ways because of an unusual girl, but then when it gets right down to it, he finds himself preferring what is hotwired into his head.
To tune it out, you must be occupied with several easy tasks at the same time, shallowly half-focusing.I am not sure my students would appreciate the novel, and without reading guidance, the adventure, full of teenage risk taking and bad language, as well as interesting technology, will probably make them overlook the message about humanity lost to quick entertainment and instant gratification, unable to find pleasure in deeper thoughts and feelings, and unable to express themselves in sophisticated language, as their vocabulary is based on the songs they listen to and the advertisements they are fed.The sad thing about books about the loss of literature and culture is that they are mostly read by people who still nurture that love.For the rest, I am sure the "Feed" gives them 24 hours nonstop of "poetry for the ear".
While I did end up liking this book I was very close to banishing it to the back of my bookshelf.This book is one that I found hard to get into, the beginning is slow and slightly tedious with the slang and the "Like, totally, man" quality of the narrators speech, it wasn't 'til about page 48 that I really started getting into it and even then it (in my opinion) wasn't very well-done.
It seemed at times like the author was trying too hard to get his point across/to make you see the satire that it rather feel like he was nudging me the whole time going "Know what I mean?
For about fifty pages, I honestly thought the guy's name was "Unit." ("Unit" turns out to be some slang similar to "dude," despite the fact that "dude" is also used, which leads me to believe they are interchangeable?)So, our main character, our "Unit," is attempting to figure out with his friends what to do on this weird thing called the Moon.
Violet and her father, the only mildly interesting characters, seem to have little impact on Titus' life.I was honestly hoping for a revolution book.
I feel like this world has such possibilities, but the plot was awkwardly developed and the characters were Ew.My rating:one out of five stars﻿
Violet wants to fit in with the “normal” kids, but her way of speaking and thinking creates a chasm between them.What makes this story different that the typical coming-of-age novel is the futuristic setting in which most people have computer interfaces installed in their brains when they are infants.
The teens are hospitalized for a few weeks and their feeds are disconnected until it’s certain they are virus free.
Unfortunately, the virus causes permanent damage to Violet’s feed with disturbing results.In the background, you slowly come to understand that the Earth that these teens inhabit has gone seriously wrong.
Put it down and run away screaming.Feed reads like a SF-flavored Douglas Copland novel, if Douglas Copland didn't suck.
It's the future story of jaded bourgeois teenagers who've inherited a dying planet, but who don't know what they're missing because they've all got Internet in chips in their heads: viral youtube links, targeted pop-up ads (tons), one-click purchasing, e-mail and IM, virtual shopping buddies and general psychic filesharing.
They can fly to the moon and think it sucks.
This book is gorgeous and clever and sad and creepy, and hopefully we'll all read it and decide never, ever to actually do this to our children.
I hated this book.
I felt patronized and belittled by his futile attempt to relate with me.
This book has no content and the English was horrendous.
My head started to hurt about half a page through.
I am accustomed to reading books that have meaning and structured grammar.
I don’t spend my time on Young Adult novels because I can’t relate to them.
Feed did exactly that.
It ostracized me.
It is by far the worst book I have ever read.
I really wish that I could have quit after the first chapter.
Yuck. Like, unit, this was meg annoying to read with all the like, whoa, thing, dialog. I'm too much of a consumer to appreciate this book, I guess. I, like, totally get what the author is trying to say with this book, but whoa, dude. I think I'll just drink a Coke and forget I read this one.
When I read the jacket blurb about this book I knew I was going to have a fun time with this story.
Add to the fact that Anderson admits being influenced by none other than Mr. Thomas Pynchon, and this book had serious potential.
But I digress.) And then I read the first page.
Okay, I understand the need to get a voice of a character and to tell a story in that voice, if applicable.
How many times can a character say like in a sentence?
Read the first page and see.
I'm a fan of both those books and buoyed by that feeling of familiarity I let myself be pulled into M.
They develop lesions and the FEED convinces them it is fashionable to have lesions to the point that some kids are having lesions cut into their body and held open with plastic just so they can feel more a part of the group.
For kicks the kids will find malware on the web that will disrupt their FEED and body functions.
Anderson interjects FEED blasts between chapters giving us a real feel of what it would be like to be assaulted by advertising, blasted by advertising, manipulated by advertising.
There's a lot of made-up futuristic slang and filler words--"like" "uh" "you know"--which give the book an interesting colloquial feel, but sometimes it was a bit much.Once I got used to the narration style, I did really enjoy the story, though the ending didn't play out how I'd hoped.
It was a quieter ending, and it left me feeling more rattled than mind-blown, which is where I thought it was heading.Two aspects of this book that I did really like were the characters and the world.
The whole idea of this book is excellent and I think it makes for a very successful and thought-provoking satire.Overall, I liked Feed, but it didn't amaze me.
in that it seemed like M.T. Anderson had a good idea and wanted to make some social commentary, but he didn't really bother to tell a story.
Some of the satire is pretty funny, and the social commentary is pointed and clever, but the main character is not likable at all, nor is anyone else in the book besides Violet, the girl he meets on the moon who opens his mind to maybe not being a sheep who relies on the Feed.
The book improves in the last third, but by that point, it had already lost me, and I wanted it to be over so I could move on.
It must be the week for me to be reading weird books...
first "Unwind" and now this....I'm straddling the proverbial fence on this bad boy:On the positive hand,1.It was a unique story ButSometimes different doesn't equal good.
2. The story itself was interestingbutthe writing sucked and it was "MEG" hard to get into3.
It was a cool take on how technology can be beneficial, but in extreme quantities we are actually worse off, to the point it makes our mind numbButit could have been executed so much better...
The actual Feed itself is such an awesome idea.
So readers, I really wanted to like this book...
But I didn't, in fact, my overall reading experience left me feeling more conflicted than before picking Feed up to read.
Titus is the main character and he has this feed inserted into his brain, this controls and receives adverts, messages and basically anything from the world wide web.
He and his friends however end up being hacked and in hospital with no contact other than each other face to face and not from the outside world, he meets Violet.
I struggled to connect to both Titus and Violet as characters.
they carried them around outside of them, in their hands, like if you carried your lungs in a briefcase and opened it to breathe.Little emphasis is placed on the wider wold, but it appears to be a world that is quickly dying.
The way he treated Violet towards the end was no short of despicable, and he can apologise all he wants, but she is the one lying in a bed not being able to move while her brain is slowly dying bit by bit.
Maybe it's because I'm an adult that I find his behaviour despicable, and as an adolescent you don't want to think about being with someone forever and one day dying.
As a marketer, I've always been clear that marketing is a reflection of who we are more than the other way around but as I read this book, I realized the cumulative effect of having all the messages bombard us since we're pretty much in the womb.
Totally fucked up!!!Titus is a teenager in a future where people have the Internet connected to their heads.
Violet, who had the feed installed as a child instead of at birth like the others, is the one that wants to be "normal", only worrying about fashion, parties and teenage shenanigans.
"The Feed" is an internet connection implanted in your brain.
So there is no need for computers or phones, you have everything right there in your mind.No need to learn.
think critically.
There is an ever so small love story between two uninteresting main characters, but I was more interested in learning more about the world and what was happening rather than in Titus' boring internal monologue.The audiobook was well done as you get to experience "The Feed".
As you listen to Titus' thoughts ads pop up to try and sell you on what he was just thinking about, or music that matches the thoughts.
Anderson projects a world where fast-paced internet consumerism has taken over society, where people have the internet basically wired into their bodies, directly feeding them a stream of advertisement based on their every random thought.
Thing!) It's annoying to read but that's the point.
They don't even realize that they could have a clue.It can be hard to read the book.
But I keep thinking of things I didn't like about the book and then realizing that the author really couldn't have written it any other way and still maintain the effect.
Too bad her feed got so fried.
Anderson captures the banality of teenage life, and the contrast between that and the horrors of their world, and the implacable disintegration of the one character who seemed to really be a thoughtful aware person, was just devastating.
I can see this world just over the horizon, and it scares me.
This book is especially good in the audio version, where you can experience that internet feed for yourself.National Book Award finalist.
From Scalzi’s BrainPal in the Old Man’s War series to Guppi in we are legion (we are bob) to multiple books in the hold like the red by linda ngatat and hot-head by simon ings waiting to be read – I have always been fascinated about the pros and cons of having an implant in me head and being continuously connected to a feed.I can’t say that I liked this book and was in fact thinking about making it walk the plank.
I think this be one of the experiences where the audio book enriched me enjoyment.Ye see, I actually disliked every character – especially the main narrator.
