https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/805029.Lark_Rise
These memoirs or anecdotes of English village life in the 1880s were enjoyable but lacked a cohesiveness that I had expected from the TV adaptation of "Lark Rise to Candleford". Perhaps that structure or plot is more evident in the other two books of the trilogy...
I, like many others, didn't discover this delightful author until I saw the PBS series 'Lark Rise to Candleford'.
I loved that series and how it focused on telling the simple stories of simple people in a small market town and hamlet during the late 19th century in Oxfordshire, England.
Reading Lark Rise was also a delight, though the narrative style is so wildly different than the episodic form of the TV show.
Readers of Lark Rise need to come to it understanding that Flora Thompson wrote essays about her life in the hamlet which were eventually turned into the novels we have today.
Neither a novel nor a real memoir, as "Laura" the supposed MC only makes sporadic appearances.
Most of the customs and way of life are coming to an end by the time the novel is set, with no real description of what was coming in their stead, which made the reading experience even odder, as if somehow suspended outside time.However, now I am curious to read No. 2 to see if there is any story to be found.
Lark Rise does not have a plot.
If that's what you care about most, it's not a good idea to try it, I don't think -- and I hear it's nothing like the tv series, Lark Rise to Candleford.
It's quite a one-sided view, though since this is supposedly more or less autobiography, there's a truth in it too.The whole book is basically nostalgia trip to an older, golden-seeming existence.
I don't know why I enjoyed it so much, really, and I wondered if I would even make it through the whole book when I first realised what it was like.
Hard to rate as it's almost a text book of late Victorian life in rural England. Great descriptions of a life that our ancestors lived and only a few generations ago tinged with sadness about how many perished in the futility of the first world war.
This book is not even the same genre as the show - it contains no romantic entanglements, no love triangles, no drama, indeed no plot at all.
(It is possible that the plot and drama of the show will be contained in the second two, "Candleford" volumes, which I intend to read next.) Yet the series is completely true to the book - the characters and life are faithful to it, and the series is sprinkled with these vignettes (drawn out to form plot-lines and drama), as well as words, phrases, and thoughts from the text.
How a book can have no plot and yet be completely engrossing is a mystery to me, but Ms. Thompson has pulled it of beautifully.
And this first book in the series only covers Laura's childhood.Although it reads somewhat like a documentary the writing is beautiful, sometimes lyrical, and gives a fascinating view of life in a farming hamlet of 1880s England.
It was becoming more and more difficult to exist as a farm laborer, farming a rich landlord's land, and mechanization was beginning and becoming more prevalent.A beautiful read, similar to the "Little House on The Prairie" series, but with less focus on characters and stories, and more focus on how life was lived.
This, the first of the trilogy by Flora Thompson, published in 1939,is the account of life in rural Oxfordshire in the last decades of the 19th century, just as times begin to change. Laura, who is really the young Flora, is both participant and observer in the story as she describes the goings-on in the village and closely surrounding areas. Nothing exciting happens, but yet I was caught up in her descriptions and sly humor and yearned to be there, until Laura describes the proverty. ("Lark Rise to Candleford" is currently being shown on PBS.)
A retelling of a humble life in England in the 1880's, flora shares memories of village life through her character, Laura. More information than story-telling, Thompson shares about memorable characters, festivals, traditions and regular everyday living. Its funny to think that at the time this was written after WW1 this way of living was considered' old-fashioned and nearly forgotten!
While the text connected the world of Lark Rise to a pre-industrial age, the photos linked it to the 20th century - much of the time I felt quite afloat chronologically.Two things, though, bothered me a bit this time round (I don't remember them bothering me at all at the first read): the greater part of the book is a description of habits, manners, lifestyle and mentality in an Oxfordshire hamlet, inhabited almost exclusively by farmhands and their families, in the 1880s, assembled from the author's memories of her childhood there at that time.
This is a book from my schooldays, it was a set book for O'level English Literature and has been a favourite ever since.
Lots of interesting details about life in an Oxfordshire hamlet in the 1880s and that despite their poverty they were happy.
It reinforces what I have always thought, that people need to work.
and although the men of the hamlet working on the farm were very poorly paid, subsistence level, they were proud of what they did, and what they achieved day to day.
They did know, however, that there had been a time not too long before when people had not been so poor.
I don't know quite how, but the people described never quite seem to come to life.
She glazes over any unhappiness or meanness or any other negative and goes rushing back to "did I mention how great it was?" Which, fine, sentimentality has its place, but again, using Lee as an example, there was a book with happy and unhappy people, cruel and kind people, and good and bad events, and it was bursting with life.
This book in comparison is sterile and impersonal, and has said or done nothing to attach me as a reader to the people within.
As the first of a trilogy of books, Flora Thompson sets the foundation for the stories to follow as she wrote this based on her own life.Coming late to the knowledge of this endearing author and also the PBS series "Lark Rise to Candleford", I have only recently viewed the first two years of the series.
The series covers 4 years and has now been concluded to the dismay of so many.
This is a wonderful book to retrieve a sense of what life was really like at the time.
After watching the British series Lark Rise to Candleford, I had to read the books from which the series was taken.
Flora Thompson tells the non-fiction story of her life in Lark Rise and expounds on the way of life in 1880s English countryside and her own part in it as the character, Laura.
The series, Lark Rise to Candleford, makes the details into a story, mixing many personality types from the book into a combined character.
It was very interesting to have a first person experience of a lifestyle that is gone forever.
If you are interested in this era, I recommend you view the series first.
I picked this book up not knowing anything about it, and not even realising that is was part of the TV adaptation until the book pointed out that this is the first of three in a series.
I started out thinking I would not enjoy this as it rambled along and there were not really any characters to get your teeth into.
But before long I started to enjoy the look back on life in that era, some things are dramatically different and some of the sayings are still used today.
I now find myself wondering how this book was adapted to TV though, maybe I will have to get hold of the series and see.
Divided up the three books to read separately on here even though I'm reading the large 556 page trilogy. The first book was really slow and descriptive, which is good, but there wasn't much going on which made it hard to read quickly. I'd read a chapter and have to take a nap. It's a great book for falling asleep to if you're looking for one of those! I may try the second and third books in the series, but not right now. The BBC show was great!
I was expecting the lovely, gentle stories which I thoroughly enjoyed when watching the TV series and was extremely disappointed. This book is an interesting account of life in a country village which I would have enjoyed if I had not seen the TV series. But alas the book was not a patch on the superb drama I enjoyed on Sunday evenings. Disappointing.
Years ago, as I sat in history class and memorized which general led which charge up which hill and stopped which flank in which battle, I always thought, "yes, but what were people's LIVES like?" Lark Rise is the answer to that question for rural England in the 1880s, from somebody who was there.
Just finished the first novel in the series and warning...it is NOTHING like the bbc series. However, I love history and was able to see how they made the storylines from Flora Thompson's tale of life in 1880's England. Really liked this book!!
I was amazed that absolutely nothing happened. It was a lovely study of english life at the turn of the century but nothing happened There wasn't even much character development. Pleasant enough but how in the world did PBS do a series with it?
Absolutely fascinating memoir of rural England in the 1880's. I can't wait to read the next two volumes.
A lazy read in a patch of sunshine.
Mostly interesting, detailed account of 19th century English farm work, social class, holiday rituals, schooling, religion, etc. I would have liked more stories.
This book is full of great little tidbits about English country life in the 1880's. I highly recommend it for anyone who enjoys British literature.
I really like these stories! A quiet reminder of what English country life used to be like.
The tiny lives of the people in this historical account are fascinating and rich. I learned so much about turn of the century Britain.
This book is kind of like a cultural autobiography. She talks about what it was like growing up in a small, poor country village in England in the 1880's.
This plotless account of plain hamlet life in Victorian England has never failed to put me in a good mood and brighten my thoughts, whether in written or in filmed format. Highly appreciated the authenticity. A concise guide of Victorian ife in rural England (including what, when, where and how they ate, their school habits, popular books, labour, celebration and churchgoing habits of the time), I loved it.
5/2018 People who enjoy detailed historical information about the life of poor people in the 1880's will enjoy this book. There is little story, just lots of descriptions about various aspects of life in a small English hamlet. The chapter about church life was interesting. Perhaps there will be more of a story in the next two books of the trilogy.
Turns out I would rather watch it than read it.
