https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10766509-the-best-of-me
The purpose of the letters is made moot because of the book's contrived ending.
Why include these letters in the story if they had absolutely no bearing in the book's finale?
You'd think Sparks would have learned to mix it up a bit with the endings to his novels, because he is becoming predictable and to me, that means boring.
The ending to "The Best of Me" was so contrived and predictable, that I already knew what was going to happen when the "ghost" led Dawson to the honky tonk bar!
EDIT:(view spoiler)[DON'T READ THIS BOOK IF YOU'RE LIKE ME AND THOUGHT MAYBE NICHOLAS SPARKS COULD WRITE A NOVEL WITHOUT KILLING OFF ONE OF THE MAIN CHARACTERS.
I was intrigued by this book from the beginning because I felt like that's kind of every woman's fantasy - to have a weekend to rekindle lost memories with your love from when you were young...
At the beginning Nicholas Sparks wrote this little 'acknowledgment' where he thanked what seemed like every person he encounters every day and he incorporated the names of all of the past novels he has written.
How hard is it to write a book where none of the main characters die?!
Amanda and Dawson fell in love in high school even though they were quite different.
Amanda was the popular type from a rich family, while Dawson struggled with problems at home.
He doesn’t really want to go back and plans ahead of time to make the trip as short as possible.
Once back in Oriental, the memories flood in and he unexpectedly meets with Amanda for the first time in nearly 20 years.To me, this book is similar to The Notebook as it follows some of the same themes.
If you’re a person who enjoys reading love stories with plenty of drama and emotion, this book’s for you.
I got excited when it seemed that Amanda was going to meet him at the cemetery only for her to turn right and go home!
Which I guess was ok since she was almost home when she received word of the accident, but she stayed with Frank even after!
Dawson stayed alone all those years thinking of no one but her, and she admitted that even on her wedding day she was unsure she should marry Frank, but she did it anyway!
Dawson gave "the best" of himself that's for sure, which Amanda selfishly took until he could give no more!
After meeting the author Nicholas Sparks last October 28th here in Manila and get him to sign my book, i started reading his latest novel which is obviously entitled "The Best Of Me".
As the same as his other novels it is filled with flashbacks and old memories that in due time came back to the protagonists of the story.
It was one of the most touching story I've ever read and it is also one of those who makes me cry the whole time.
I guess this story just moves me a little for i'm a big sucker for romantic things and love.
I always feel cheated when I get to the end of a Nicholas Sparks book (I don't know why I keep reading them).
I think it is slightly more realistic than the actual ending.Amanda and Dawson go back to their lives and their responsibilities after their life changing weekend.
Dawson lets go of the guilt from his past and finds peace, having received forgiveness and taken care of his horrible cousins (without getting shot of course).
Shortly after her divorce, Amanda finds her way to him, showing up out of the blue one day and they live happily ever after.
Can Nicholas Sparks put out a bad book? I think Not! The Best of Me is truly The Best! Everyone of his books are written from the heart and grab the reader's heart. This book made my heart swell with joy and then the pain my hear felt hurt so much, it felt as if it wasn't just a novel I was reading. I would very much like to change the ending, it just shows that Sparks endings aren't all predictably the same. This novel gets all the stars possible.
"I gave you the best of me, and after you left, nothing was ever the same."  *sobs*This book isn't fair! Right now my emotions are all over the place I don't even know if I could write a decent review.But heck, Nicholas Sparks did it again!Everything in this book is remarkable. Told in multiple POVs, I found this book totally engaging and emotionally-driven. I fell in love right from the beginning up to the end. With Nicholas Sparks' beautiful lines and plot, I could never stop admiring how gre
Right now my emotions are all over the place I don't even know if I could write a decent review.But heck, Nicholas Sparks did it again!Everything in this book is remarkable.
I fell in love right from the beginning up to the end.
With Nicholas Sparks' beautiful lines and plot, I could never stop admiring how great a storyteller he is.
It doesn't guarantee a happy ending and yet it totally surprises you with its beautiful, heart-felt message.I found the plot twist predictable, however.
I know it was published years ago, but if you want a Nicholas Sparks feels one of these days, you might want to consider this book.
Dear John is one of my favorite books because of how deeply it touched me and spoke about true love.
Safe Haven reminded me too much of The Guardian, and this book, The Best of Me...where do I start?First of all, by the time I had gotten to page 90, I'd already read several peoples points of views.
As a struggling writer, I looked up to him because of how well rounded his characters are and how touching the stories are (especially Dear John, The Notebook, and Message in a Bottle) but this book is, to be put bluntly, a catastrophe and I hope he gets out of the movie business and back into the book business.
Tear jerker! Those are the only two words I can think to describe this book. I really enjoy Sparks' novels. I always know I'm in for a good cry!
I saw THE LUCKY ONE twice in the theatre and I loved MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE even though you killed Kevin Costner and THE NOTEBOOK is the only movie I have ever like better than the book but I think I am going to have to break up with you.We've had some good times, lots of laughs, many tears and hours and hours of pure entertainment but I think this is the end of our journey.
I know you will still have lots of loyal readers and will be very happy.Thanks for all of the good times,Smiles,Makita
It took me a while to get into the book but enjoyed it. It is different to the movie if you sae that first like myself. I wish Dawson and Amanda ended up together
Cuando comencé a leer el libro me di cuenta cómo iba a desenvolverse la historia, era evidente lo que iba a pasar, pero no por eso no lo disfruté.
Me dieron ganas de llorar y me enojé con Sparks por hacerme sufrir de esa manera.En resumen, creo que el libro prueba que todo lo que pasa en la vida, sucede por una razón.Y si hay unas pocas palabras para definir este libro son las siguientes: Emocionalmente injusto.Calificación: 3 estrellas y ½.
Es raro, pero debo reconocer que le colocaría 4 estrellas porque cada día que pasa me gusta más.
Opening Line:”For Dawson Cole, the hallucinations began after the explosion on the platform, on the day he should have died.” By now I’ve read enough Nicholas Sparks to know going in that I’m not always going to be guaranteed a HEA.
The Best Of Me reads like bits and pieces of all his other books with; unrequited love, reunited lovers, Notebook-esque flashbacks with an older couple, moral dilemmas, a bit of spirituality, a tortured hero, unscrupulous bad guys and a predictable yet nail-biting ending while you await the outcome of (in this case) a shooting.
I am currently a Nicholas Sparks nut. I love a good ooey gooey romance novel. Shoot me. I've read a lot of his books and this is the only one that has made me bawl my eyes out for about half an hour after I had finished it. It is heart wrenching and I was hooked the entire time. I highly recommend this to someone who just is really in the mood to read a romance/chick lit.
★★★★★★★☆☆☆[7/10]There are only three places in the world where you stand the risk of losing many of your favorite persons-⏩ Real world, during natural calamities. ⏩ Fictional world, Game of Thrones. ⏩ Fictional world, Nicholas Sparks novels. Throw in some romance, some supernatural conscience, some predictably melancholy farewell, there you go- you call it a best seller. Seven stars, because I stained the pages with tears. But then I go and cry about everything at the slightest provocation. Michelle Monaghan and James Marsden, you owe me big time. I did it for you!!
Their lives change drastically over the course of a single weekend and nothing will ever be the same once it's over.This is perhaps Nicholas Sparks' best work to date.
He continues to grow as a writer, stretching the confines of the "romance" novels he has become famous for.
"The Best of Me" boasts action, suspense, tenderness and paranormal aspects, all leading up to a heart-wrenching conclusion that is much deserving of being played out on the big screen, like many of his other novels.I highly recommend "The Best of Me" to all, but especially those who want to believe that endless love is possible.
"I gave you the best of me, and after you left, nothing was ever the same." Nicholas Sparks did it again. I think he secretly (not so secret anymore) enjoys RIPPING our hearts out. I cried. Not ashamed. 🤚🏼It started off as the mother of all clichés (not complaining), I still liked this a lot despite the very predictable, yet engaging plot; but I admit that some parts SHOOK me (not spoiling anything, you're gonna have to read this).I'm glad I never gave up on Sparks and still am reading his beau
🤚🏼It started off as the mother of all clichés (not complaining), I still liked this a lot despite the very predictable, yet engaging plot; but I admit that some parts SHOOK me (not spoiling anything, you're gonna have to read this).I'm glad I never gave up on Sparks and still am reading his beautiful novels (I do have a thing for typical romance).PS: I think I'm more in love with Tuck than anyone else in the book + I loved the movie WAY more since it added more action and characters ( - Bobby Cole, Dawson's cousin AND best friend - and he didn't even exist in the book) that, too, BROKE my heart even more and made my cry like a baby.
I gave this book only 1 star because, although it was a typical Nicholas Sparks storyline, he clearly missed it in this one.
However, in this one, I didn't see the average warmth, caring and heart wrenching love that he's become famous for.
The love story wasn't even in good telling.
Some of the story just wasn't cohesive, didn't flow well and didn't make sense.
It was too far fetched and I now understand why Mr. Sparks said in the introduction that it was a very hard story for him to write.
I'm returning the book for a refund.
I wasn't expecting a happy ending from this book, but the way this story was portrayed was kind of mean and unpleasant in my opinion.
I hope that it doesn't come across that way in the book, but in the movie it seems like Dawson had a crappy life from the very beginning and continued to have a crappy life that he didn't deserve; it really was all shit for him, just to end in a bigger pile of shit.Maybe for Amanda the result was fate, destiny and all that, but for Dawson it was a terrible unfairness.So in conclusion, I can't say I liked the story as it was depicted in the movie.
He has managed to write a book that has moved from page to page with such strong emotions it is as if he experienced every heartbreak, love, betrayal, loneliness and fright.
He would always describe every scene with great detail and would describe the feelings of every character from the book with details and real feelings as if he was in each and everyone's shoes.
Of course I've always known that, but the book was a great illustration of that.
Overall, the book was hard-to-put-down and realistic as well as thrilling.
And Nicholas Sparks proved that endless love is reachable.My social media:Instagram: @reemobooksTwitter: @ReemoAlomariEmail: reem.alomari@gmail.comYoutube: reemobooks
SUCH an amazing plot, written by the only one who can.
I never could have foreseen the ending!
A truly genius ending to an epic tale.
Several people's stories in one novel, where all of them have a meaning to each other in the end?
I can only find this in a Nicholas Sparks novel.
This novel is not at all some sappy, cliché love story.
You are on your toes through the entire book, and you will be left with a feeling of "WOW, how is it possible to come up with a plot like this?".
Again, I'm amazed at what this author can do with words.
Am recitit aceasta carte, cu aceeasi placere cu care am citit-o. Desi finalul este usor trist, pot sa inteleg totusi ca moartea unei persoane iubite a putut salva o alta persoana care se afla la inceput de drum. O carte a emotiilor intense!https://justreadingmybooks.wordpress....
I'm giving up on you Sparks.No more.
OMG!!
I just finished the Nicholas Sparks The Best of me and I want to cry so bad!
I believe everything in life happens for a reason and this book proves that.
As I read the series of events I knew exactly what had happened before the book told me and I wanted to scream "No" because true love overcomes everything.
In the end I think in the end knowing what happened not only saved two lives that night but it saved her in so many ways and I believe he would say it was all worth it.
Esta historia esta narrada en dos líneas de tiempo diferentes: una, cuando Amanda y Dawson se conocen y se enamoran, pero una serie de acontecimientos los separa y los lleva por caminos diferentes. Y otra, en la actualidad, luego de veinticinco años, cuando se reencuentran en el funeral de Tuck.
Just finished this masterpiece .. the ending took my breath away ♥
The start of the book was promising and I was totally hooked on Amanda and Dawson's teenage romance and cheering for their big reunion because, lets face it, second chance forbidden romance is the best kind there is.
But somehow, Dawson shows a remarkable lack of darkness such as resentment for the town's small mindedness and prejudice or a need for revenge as a result of the physical, mental and emotional abuse he'd suffered from his family.
Dawson needed a heroine who questions the small-town values, prejudice and family expectation and stick by him.
I enjoyed reading about Amanda and Dawson, and their forbidden teenage romance.
I also found that I was more interested in the story of Tuck and his wife than Dawson and Amanda.
The only thing I can say, though, is that the ending was very sad, and was supposed to make the reader feel some emotion, but I felt very little, because I just couldn't bring myself to care much about Dawson...He was a good guy and all, but the story changed focus so much I never felt any connection to any of the characters.I do not like that fact that POV changed so much and to so many different people.
Es el primer libro de Sparks con el que no conecto. Todo lo veo demasiado dramático, ya sé que Sparks escribe así, pero aquí no me he creído la historia.Normalmente en el final de un libro de Sparks estoy tirada por los suelos y llorando a mares. Pues aquí estaba medio riendo.
