https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/172111.The_Slave_Dancer
The Slave Dancer is a children's book written by Paula Fox and published in 1973.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز دهم ماه آگوست سال 1981 میلادیعنوان: برده رقصان؛ نویسنده: پائولا فاکس؛ مترجم: مصطفی رهبر؛ تهران، کانون پرورش فکری؛ 1359 در 204 ص؛ چاپ دوم اردیبهشت 1361؛ چاپ دیگر: چاپ سوم در 195 ص؛ چاپ چهارم 1366؛ چاپ پنجم مهر 1368؛ شابک: 9644323521؛ چاپ هفتم 1382؛ موضوع: داستان برده داری و برده فروشی از نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مفهرست: فرمان ص 5؛ مهتاب ص 19؛ طنابهای دکل ص 47؛ خلیج بنین ص 65؛ نیکلاس اسپارک روی آب راه میرود.
متن با این واژه ها آغاز میشود: «مادرم ابزار کارش را، در صندوق چوبی لولاداری، که روی آن ماهی بالداری کنده کاری شده بود، نگاهداری میکرد.
It presents a tale that never grows old: one not only of cruelty and mistreatment but a story from the lips and eyes of a child who, like the young reader who picked up this book, never had to confront the ideas of slavery and dismal living conditions before.
If you read this book and said, "whites shouldn't have treated blacks badly, and we all know that, end of story," then I would challenge your views as a reader of literature AND a surveyor of history.
Disclaimer: ARC via Netgalley and Open Road Media. The best new television show for the 2015-2016 year is Underground. Shown on the WGN network, the series is about a group of slaves in the 1850s trying to escape. At times the show, as most television shows do, stretch the bounds of believability (how is one slave such a good shot despite never using a gun before, would those two people really be brothers, and how is that geography working for you?), yet the show is one that everyone should watc
At times the show, as most television shows do, stretch the bounds of believability (how is one slave such a good shot despite never using a gun before, would those two people really be brothers, and how is that geography working for you?), yet the show is one that everyone should watch.
The reason why I bring this up is that Open Road Media has re-issued Paula Fox’s Slave Dancer in kindle format.
Slave Dancer tells the story of a young boy, Jessie, who is shanghaied onto a slave ship.
I teach reading to both Junior and Senior high school students so I am always looking for superior adolescent literature.
I have read elsewhere that dancing the slaves supposedly kept some muscle tone during the long voyage.We see the voyage through the eyes of young Jesse, a boy who had never thought much about slavery.
During the voyage, he learns about the flawed men who now control his life and the lives of the 98 slaves locked in the hold.The novel could certainly be used in middle or high school literature, English or even history classes.
In my high school reading class we completed the novel in just over six weeks.
Having said this, you may wonder why I highly recommend this dark tale full of vivid, violent details.The answer is simply this: Slavery was abhorrently wrong and this book captures the gruesomeness of the slave trade without stopping to the real temptation of pounding home a truth to the point wherein the reader closes the pages.
He is a young 13 year old white male who, while aware of the dirty business of slavery, had no idea what was in store for him or the slaves.Playing the fife during the day to earn extra money to help his mother renders him a target of the nasty traders who capture him and stow him on the ship.
This one was important to me, as a child.Beyond presenting historical facts, I felt that it really let me understand the true horror of the slave trade.
A powerful historical fiction book...maybe a little too intense for younger readers, but highly educational and masterfully written. The Newbery is well-deserved. I don't think many elementary-aged students would be able to grasp fully the complexity of the characters and their relationships in this novel--Fox explores the dark depths of human nature and human psychology--but I'm so glad she didn't give us a watered-down version of this period in American history.
I have spent the last 5 years in children's libraries looking at books trying to decide what to read and/or purchase.
I always thought this looked like a good one, after all, it is a Newberry Medal book.
The first two chapters were hard to read, there were words that I didn't even know.
I actually thought about finishing the book on my own, not alound, thinking it would maybe flow better.
But, there are just too many other books to read, that I do enjoy reading.
Sorry, for those of you who like the book, maybe I just read it at the wrong time for me.
For those serving as part of the crew on slave ships traveling between Africa or some European city dealing in the slave trade and their final destination of the U.S., there was no closing the pages of a book when the vile desecrations of humanity became too extreme to stomach, no leaving off and taking a breath of fresh air away from the ungodly stench of a ship's hold packed tightly with uncleaned bodies and their accumulated waste from weeks or months of confinement, no saying that they'd had enough when the drama became just a little too real and the violence heightened to levels too intolerably grotesque to process.
When the ship wrecks in the Gulf of Mexico, Jessie and the sole survivor, a captive named Ras, are free, but far from safe.My ThoughtsWHERE WAS THIS BOOK WHEN WE LEARNED US HISTORY?!Okay, now that's out of my system, seriously.
I want every student to read this and have the hard discussions about who we were, how little we valued the men and women God made in his own image, how slavery perverted those who worked its loathsome system (just look at the rest of the crew).
This won the Newbery Medal in 1974 and is by far the heaviest novel I've read in my still-in-progress exploration of 1970s Newbery winners.The protagonist is Jessie, a white boy who is kidnapped from his home in 1840s New Orleans to be part of the crew on a slave ship.
But the plot IS horrific and it was unpleasant to read for long.
Also, I found the crew members difficult to distinguish among - I kept getting the bad guys mixed up!I am curious as to what age group the author thought this book was aimed.
And, on that note, it does a good job of treating slavery as systemic oppression, rather than a matter of evil people committing evil acts.
She also does a great job of explaining the importance of power in this system, rather than just always using profit, for example, as a scapegoat to explain away cruelty.I loved that I hated nearly every white character in this book--even the protagonist, Jessie.
While he, too, is somewhat a victim in this story, Fox uses his character to show how cruelty breeds inhumanity in even "innocent" people.
An abducted ship's boy endures a harrowing and brutal voyage on a slave ship during the infamous Middle Passage.
I loved the intelligence and pacing of this novel.The question is: Who would put this book in their classroom?
Paula Faox uses the dialogue of the characters to show the level of humanity or inhumanity in their attitude toward the slaves, and this slur is a clear signpost in the moral maze of the novel.
After spending most of the book showing that the slaves were irrevocably separated from the whites, Paula Fox lets her narrator redefine the relationship a little too easily.
Recently I read the book The Slave Dancer by Paula Fox. I think that this book was very good in it's own way.
In social studies we learned about slaves 2 chapters ago and I think it's interesting that this described what they went through perfectly.
I found it interesting because I never imagined the pain someone can go through by the hands of another person.
They also tell you something you (or just me) never thought, the crew can also die because when the slaves need food the crew goes without (because the crew isn't able to be sold for profit).
Listening to the audio in the car...krb 7/7/17Heart wrenching audio that is a must read/listen to for all teenagers. You really feel the emotions and circumstances of these people in the story....krb 7/17/17
More mature topic, but a tale that should be told! This one flows along following the life of Jesse Boller a young boy of 13 who is kidnapped to play his fife on a slave ship.
Excellent, but pretty dark from start to finish.
A ruthless little book with a very likable main character.
There have been a lot of criticisms of this book for racism- I will say that it is problematic and parents should read it first before handing it off to their kids.
Now, I've heard that the book excuses the slavers- the only place where I really saw this was in the treatment of Jessie, Ned and Purvis.
I've also heard that the book makes the enslaved out to be simple.
Unfortunately, people in those sorts of circumstances aren't always capable of making the types of decisions they may have made otherwise.
Intensely stressed and traumatized people do not make good decisions.
Before that, things had been slow, but I guess that's sort of what it would have been like in real life.I loved the characters that Mrs. Fox made.
At first, I liked him, but Jessie hated him, and then he started to act sort of evilish.
You really couldn't write a book about slave trade without having some violence, and Mrs. Fox wrote it in a very appropriate way.
I think the book was very well written and it's a must-read for anyone who wants to learn more about the slave trade.
As someone who freely gives books about hard things to students who seem to hunger for stories that tell of dark times, I don't know if I could hand this to a child.
I just feel so wounded by reading it, but again, it is not about me or my tender feelings.
I very much appreciated the forward by Christopher Paul Curtis in the edition I read.
I know it was widely panned after winning the Newbery and don't think it will be any better received today in 2018.
In the words of Jessie's mother, “I can’t hear it!
کتاب داستانش خیلی آهسته پیش میره و یه جوری برای امثال من حدس زدن آخرش امکان پذیره ولی جالب بود و جزو اون دست از نویسندگانی بود (البته اگه ترجمه رو هم بهش اضافه کنیم)خیلی جالب حس وحال داستان رو به آدم منتقل میکنه و به نظر خودت هم تو داستان هستی
Though this story is such a gruesome part of history, it must be told. This is part of the story of slavery and how some of the American people got here. This is their story.
I love how Fox managed to get readers to respect Purvis for the kindness he shows to Jessie—despite his many, many flaws and despite the fact that he was originally the one who committed Jessie’s kidnapping.
Things I disliked about the book:1-The writing: I’ve read a lot of other reviews for The Slave Dancer that have said that they found the writing to be quite eloquent for a children’s novel.
If I’m going to read a novel written from the first person point of view of a 13-year-old child, then I want it to sound like a child is telling me the story.
The writing was good, and it set the atmosphere for the story, a kind of realness and sadness that lasted throughout the book.What I liked about The Slave Dancer was that it was shown through the eyes of a white boy.
(hide spoiler)]It left me confused as to what I should feel for some of the characters, probably much like how Jessie had felt.
(hide spoiler)]Nevertheless, these strange actions made them seem human, or at least, become more than just characters in a book.
I sniffed, thinking to myself what a comical human habit it was--how often I'd observed someone who, offended by an odor and proclaiming loudly how awful it was, continued to sniff away as though, in fact, he was smelling a rose.""Being on a ship and eating from its stores was like a man burning down his house to keep warm.""We didn't hear the splash she must have made when she hit the water, but then we were making speed before a fair breeze.
He knew I thought he was evil but he liked to suggest that beneath that I held another opinion of him, that, in fact, I admired him.
This book is really hard to rate because on the one hand I'm really frustrated because the book portrays the absolute worst of humanity, without contrasting it with a portrayal of the best of humanity.
I have read a lot of books (children's especially) where racial tention is the main theme and usually I enjoy them.
But I have a hard time reading a book that is so completely focused on the negative.
If you would like to read a book that portrays racial tension that isn't so sad and depressing I recommend Roll of Thunder Hear my Cry by, Mildred D.
The main character, Jessie, is about 13 years old and can play the fife.
Jessie witnesses what the slaves have to endure and the horrible conditions they are forced to live in.I rate this a 4.5.
I believe it’s important that children are exposed to the cruelties that existed with the slave trade and what it was like on ship for both the crew and the slaves, but I advise a parent reads the book first and see if it’s appropriate for their child.
Jesse Bollier is a thirteen-year-old boy living in New Orleans in 1840 when slave traders hear him playing his fife on the wharf.
I was expecting the description of the treatment of the slaves to be harsh and graphic, but it was the other stuff that I thought was particularly excessive.
I also thought the relationship between Jesse and the other boy to be under-developed, especially considering the weight that is put on that relationship toward the end of the book.
Using a kidnapped boy as the protagonist gave her a good angle to try and capture the horrors of that time.He was kidnapped for his fife playing abilities...
because once the slaves are on board, they bring them up periodically to "dance".
Thus he's brought aboard to "dance" them by playing music.It's an award winning book.
It's written for a younger audience but is easily suited for an adult reader.Note: I have been in a slump of not easily enjoying my reads.
Therefore, my rating of 4 stars might have been 5 if read at different time.
