https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29905.Essential_Dialogues_of_Plato
I remember when I first read some of these dialogues; at the time I was really quite astounded at how many parallels there were between some of Plato's concepts and concepts one finds in the New Testament.
I am not, of course, saying that the New Testament is a conscious recapitulation of Platonic notions, what I am saying is that Plato, and probably Socrates and other Greek poets and philosophers, prepared the way for Christianity in some ways.
For my Christian readers who find this point offensive, I do suggest you read the dialogues of Plato carefully and read the New Testament carefully.
How do I criticize a monumental figure like Plato? I'm not a student of philosophy, this was my first foray into it, but I did find this book surprisingly readable. interesting dialogues (true to its title) on love, friendship, the nature of the state (the first half of the book is more interesting than the second, maybe my energy for it waned, but I also think it was because of the topics). Got swept in by the intellectual testing and prodding of the famed Socratic method at work.
I feel like a bit of a heel offering such a low rating to a book collecting some of the best known work of a major figure in the history of philosophy (minus Republic) but if I'm being honest, this is just a very hard book to enjoy or really learn much from.Maybe it's the translation.
After which, this third person said, no, not really, and proceeded to give a slightly different interpretation of recent Middle East history.This is pretty much what Socrates is up to for the entirety of this book.
I read Apology, Crito, Protagoras, Symposium and Phaedo.Plato writes of Socrates' many dialogues and the use of questions and answers that are known as the socratic method. Some of these dialogues are tough reading. While reading Protagoras, I wanted to jump up and start diagraming on a whiteboard the arguments, as they were very difficult to follow.Very moving narrative of Socrates death at the end of Phaedo.Next up....Plato's Republic# 12A of 133 on Clifton Fadiman's New Lifetime Reading Plan.
Some parts are hard to follow without additional information and I had to consult my grandfather regularly. Very good and thought provoking!
I didn't read the entire book, just Symposium.
Essential reading for any serious student of philosophy, however not the best translation of Plato's writing.
Interesting and some very valid arguments, but also some logical shortcuts that I didn't agree with.
