https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/529830.The_Reverse_of_the_Medal
Yet the dominant note as I delve into the second half of this twenty book epic is the desire of never reaching the end, of sailing on towards the ever distant line of the horizon in the company of these two fictional people that have become intimate friends through the magic web of words woven by this master storyteller that is Patrick O'Brian.There is a lot of plot development in this eleventh episode, most of it taking place on dry land – a dramatic development whose seeds were planted several books back and one that underlines the often brutal disconnect between the purity of life on the high seas and the corruption, betrayal and venality of life on shore.
Then later on comes quick-like and our hero Captain Jack Aubrey takes a sketchy tip and dives into the stock market on a "sure thing".
Maturin does his best to extricate Aubrey, but there are forces at play beyond them both.Much of the action takes place on land, where Aubrey is a complete fish out of water.
But the characters on the other hand usually end up the worse for wear.Author Patrick O'Brian grinds an ax against lawyers in this installment of the Master & Commander/Aubrey & Maturin series.
He has very little good to say about them, neither through character dialogue nor actions.
O'Brian's writing is as incisive as ever, his well-developed sense of irony as sharp here as in any of the previous books.
Sometimes he locates the narrative in the conversations between Maturin and Aubrey, and very often he will locate the focus in the conscious thoughts of one of the two.
One senses that future entries will play more on the public-private distinction; clearly O'Brian is more than equal to this shift in narrative focus.
One almost always has a tendency to rush the endings of these novels because the suspense gets wound up to fever pitch--this time O'Brian really outdoes anything he has accomplished before in that line.
There is an exciting chase of Jack’s frigate in pursuit a privateer in the first part of the book, but we are deprived of a chance to see his special friend and ship’s surgeon, Stephen Maturin, engage in his naturalist avocation in exotic locales.
Those who have already come to love Lucky Jack for his heart and courage in battle will be moved by the jeopardy he stands up to in the court case in this story.
The rich and vibrant friendship between Jack and Stephen is the true heart of the series, and it brings me much elation and tender feelings over their mutual welfare.
"When virtue spooms before a prosperous galeMy heaving wishes help to fill the sail"- John Dryden, The Hind And The PantherThere is a fairly exciting cat and mouse chase in this book, but for the most part 'The Reverse of the Medal' involves another Captain Jack Aubrey financial mistake.
In what I'll only describe as a mix between a classic economic espionage novel ala John le Carré and David Mamet's The Spanish Prisoner, Jack Aubrey loses about everything.
My history with this book serves as proof that I at least cannot do justice to a series if I don't begin at the beginning.
I read the first few pages and had no idea what was going on or who anyone was, so I put it back.The next time I picked up this book was after I’d read the previous ones in the series.
This time all of the background was there.
From the first word I was passionately with the story, which promptly began to build to one of the most emotionally resounding climaxes I have ever read.It is a brilliant book in so many ways.
Now I must buy the next.Words (that I looked up in a wonderful, dead-tree dictionary, which felt awesome)andiron (n): the metal stand that holds wood in a fire place (p.
189)chirurgical (adj): of or pertaining to surgery (from A Sea of Words) (p.
162)chouse (v): to dupe or swindle (from A Sea of Words) (p.
My Oxford Encyclopedic English Dictionary postulates that this may derive from a family of merchants in Augsburg named "Fugger" in the 15h-16th centuries, which made me wonder if said family is in any way related to the word "fuck," which my dictionary lists as "origin unknown, 16th c." (p.
The most bromancey book of the series so far. Stephen's use of his huge wealth, solely for Jack's freedom and happiness and pride, brought tears to my eyes. My beautiful boys... *sniff*
But setting foot on shore brings far, far worse problems than that, as Lucky Jack Aubrey isn’t anywhere near so lucky on land, and soon finds himself unwittingly caught up in a conspiracy that could see him booted from the service, while Stephen is finding that conspiracies also abound in his intelligence network.I was so bound up in Reverse of the Medal that I virtually devoured it in one, and with Jack being literally out of his element for the second half of the book I was more far more worried for the outcome than I would ever have been with a tremendous sea battle.
This is the eleventh in the Aubrey/Maturin series of novels, which stretches to twenty volumes completed in the author's lifetime and a 21st published posthumously having (I assume) been finished or at least tidied up by another. THIS REVIEW HAS BEEN CURTAILED IN PROTEST AT GOODREADS' CENSORSHIP POLICYSee the complete review here:http://arbieroo.booklikes.com/post/33...
Primarily of interest to those who know of Lord Cochrane's trial for stock fraud.
But the book takes some liberties with history, and pursues its own ends at its own pace in telling this particular story.(Considerable, unavoidable spoilers to follow.)After the events of The Far Side of the World, the HMS Surprise is slowly making its way home.
For a long time our heroes were protected from the consequences of their actions simply by being on a ship far away from the rest of the world; now they are back at the centre of the industrialised world, and the world is very much taking an interest in them.But here, more so than ever before in the series, the book really feels like a celebration of all that has come before.
Unusually for a Master and Commander novel, whilst reading ‘The Reverse of the Medal’ I was almost more diverted by the plot than the character interactions.
(view spoiler)[Stephen’s pre-dawn walk across the countryside is full of spellbinding description: 'Vast shapeless oaks, often hollow and useless for timber, held out their arms and their fresh young green leaves almost to the middle of the clearing, held them with never a tremor, for down here the air was so still that gossamer floated with no perceptible movement at all.' At the end of this walk, Stephen comes upon a cricket game and his disdain for it is highly amusing.
I have a true confession: Patrick O'Brian has made me a fan of naval historical fiction. His engrossing world in both The Reverse of the Medal and the entire  Aubrey-Maturin Series  is at once as alien as any science fiction story and yet startlingly compelling. Readers who embark on this series of books will find the Napoleonic language difficult at first, but will be well-rewarded in the end as they become immersed in it. On the human side, O'Brians characters are flawed and yet thoroughly lik
I have a true confession: Patrick O'Brian has made me a fan of naval historical fiction.
Captain Jack Aubrey, the main character in most of the novels, is amazing at sea and quite a "lubber" on land.
The Reverse of the Medal is literally a reverse from some of O'Brian's other naval books.
Unlike other entries in the series that begin on land and end with victories at sea, the story begins with demonstrations of Captain Aubrey's amazing abilities at sea and ends with his devastation on land as he gets caught up in the historical Great Stock Exchange Fraud of 1814.
A re-read: I'm slowly revisiting this series in audio book format during long drives.This is the one where Jack Aubrey, who is not always astute on land, is tricked into instigating stock fraud.
But he also discovers that his godfather’s will has made him a very rich man, which proves awfully convenient for solving some of Jack’s problems.When this ended we still had two hours of driving left so we launched right into The Letter of Marque, which picks up the story seamlessly.I really need to read a biography of Lord Cochrane now.
Captain Jack Aubrey and his particular friend, Dr. Steven Maturin, return to England. Within days of his arrival, Jack's credulous nature (at least on land) and kind heart put him in the crosshairs of a political scandal. While he withstands imprisonment and trial, Steven tries to figure out the truth of the matter.Another beautifully written novel from O'Brian.
I am in awe that O'Brian's stories of Jack and Stephen and the crew of The Surprise keep getting better and better. One unexpected event after another. This one takes place mostly on land, but what a shock and a cliff hanger of an ending.
Though based on historic events and no less well-written than other episodes of the Aubery/Maturin saga, it's all getting a bit repetitive.Die-hards will enjoy it; others will wonder what the fuss is about.
My least favorite of the series so far. The ending is kind of cute and it leads nicely into the next book, but there is simply not enough action.
Great story of course as expected with an extremely bittersweet ending. I may not be able to wait long for the next one.
The One with Stock Manipulation....Jack and Stephen are on land just long enough for Jack to get a tip on buying stocks, which brings about some unexpected results. Introduces Samuel Panda, Jack's illegitimate son, who looks so much like him that Jack keeps thinking he has seen him somewhere before. Pure genius. Overall, it felt like this was a transition book that should be paired with Letter of Marque.
not bad for a book set entirely on land ..
I read it and knew what was going to happen because I'd read the Wiki entry on Lord Cochrane ages ago.
I feel like my heart is slowly being ripped into tiny shreds and all I want to do is keen and rock back and forth and say "I should have known" over and over again.My dearest poorest creature.And my dear sweet sister immediately paused her film and came over to me to give me a hug.She's gone.
I thought that surely she must have known Stephen better than to believe in rumours of this kind, or that surely she was strong enough to disregard them.
It was the high point of the novel that after being placed in the stocks with the sun bright in his eye so he could not make out the size of the crowd or their caches of rocks, mud or stench, that once the bolt is snapped and he looks up, he finds not thugs and rowdies but hundreds of Naval men.
And now with the cliffhanger that portends that Jack's name may be cleared and Wray (and perhaps his even more highly placed conspirator) may be exposed - I can't wait to start on book # 12.
It is one of the toughest stories of the entire Aubrey-Maturin series.
The story starts out well enough with an exciting chase of a privateer which for once ends poorly and Aubrey doesn't get his target.Then the plot thickens.
The enemies of both set traps to destroy both of the pair and while Stephen dodges his, Aubrey does not.
This is the best book of the series, if a bit shorter than some others, and starts off a whole new era for the pair, shifting their relationship and steeling them for later.
And at least Dr Maturin's spy brain seems to have reset, albeit also in the end of the book.
I can take this in the Dickens monthly episodic style, but it must have been supremely annoying when the author was bringing out his books to an eager audience.This was a transitional book but also seems to end a story arc so that one can begin afresh with a new section of Lucky Jack's life.
At this point, his greatest luck seems to be in his stalwart seamen's appreciation, his wife, and his friend Stephen Maturin.To read a transition by itself is not enjoyable since it is too fraught with uncomfortable happenings without the joy of many (or any) successes.
This book really probably deserves 4 stars, but since it took place almost entirely on shore and it involves poor Jack getting into yet more financial trouble, I didn't enjoy it as much.
I actually set it down part way through because I didn't want to read about the trouble I could see coming.
Then a month and a half later I found myself with nothing to read and in boredom picked it back up.
I was surprised to find I had already read over half of it.
Turns out I'd read the worst of it, and from their on out it got more interesting as well.I prefer the books where they are at sea, though.
Most of the action in this book takes place on land rather than at sea. There is a tense chase at sea, however, which is one of the finest chases in the series. The action on land is not of a military nature, being intrigue and centred on some double agents trying to undo Aubrey and Maturin. While not one of my favourites in the series thus far, still a very satisfying read. O'Brian has created one of the truly great and authentic friendships in literature.
An important book in shaping the overall arc of the series, it is one of the less ripping installments to read. The problem is that so much of it -- and there's no nice way of saying this -- takes place on land. Still, second-rate Aubrey/Maturin is still better than most of written literature.Read November 2012.Listened October 2015.
One of the better Aubrey stories. Not alot of sea action but in this story. Instead I got to see Jack run into debt - again! - but also saw his good friend Stephen rally to his friend's side. Very nice scenes which showed the extent of their friendship. For this alone it made the book outstanding.
