https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92796.The_Second_Book_of_Swords
The second book picks up the story five years later, and we get to follow Mark, Ben, and Barbara once again.
Ben was a recruit with the Blue Temple, Mark was part of Sir Andrew's army, and Barbara traveled with a circus.
With that plan in mind, Ben and Mark providentially meet Baron Doon who has the Wayfinder, the Sword of Wisdom.
This Sword points its bearer to whatever their heart desires, and Baron Doon wants to find the Blue Temple's treasure hoard.
The Second Book suffers a bit from middle-book-of-a-trilogy-syndrome. We have our heroes acting in a way not exactly in character, but instead moving the plot along. We get the big reveal (no spoilers) towards the end, and more swords are introduced. Still, a fun heist story.
The constant switching of swords that was the first book culminates in the second.
This guy wants one thing so bad yet as soon as something else comes along he totally forgets it.Above all there is just a total lack of background here.
The total lack of interesting swords, two stupid "gods" and an ending that was more lackluster than the first book.
It's the potential that's there which makes me hope that the final book will redeem this tale.
As a child, I was enthralled by Fred Saberhagen's Books of the Gods series.
I branched out and bought this series a long time ago and read the first book a year or two ago...and was extremely underwhelmed to the point I didn't pick this one up for a long time.
Finally, I figured I would give it a shot again.
The first third of the book was awful.
However, as the book went on and the action progressed I began to enjoy it more and really start to hit the stride.
I'm hoping the rest of the books in this series carry that momentum.
Fun fantasy story, but the reading order is a bit confusing. I first read the first book in "The Book of Lost Swords" then picked up this one, thinking it was the sequel. It's actually book 2 of the first trilogy. I was a bit confused why suddenly the new story took place in the past.
Good, but somewhat confusing as to who the main character is supposed to be.
It’s interesting reading this second book, because it deviates so sharply from the fairly standard fantasy story of the first book, shooting forward in time by a number of years and showing the heroes from the first novel separated and trying some different things before coming back together to try and rob the richest of the rich, the Blue Temple.
It’s a bit like a choose your own adventure at that point, where the reader has come to a bad end, but the author obligingly cancels that out with a small twist and things are back to moving again.
As I believe I mentioned in my review of the First Book of Swords, this series either started, or seriously stoked my slight obsession with collections of objects with powers.
You want to see these characters, even the jerks, get to their treasure, outsmart the Blue temple, etc.The place of the Swords in the book is as motivator and plot-device, but it's very well done.
This is more of a bank heist book than a fantasy novel, so if you expected something like the First Book of Swords or, for that matter, Tolkien, you'll be disappointed.
It's a bit of an odd mix, as such, with most fantasy elements popping in and out briefly.
Saberhagen's descriptive efforts are also a mixed bag--the rock that opens to a bank vault is impossible to imagine given the description.
Dragons are given short shrift, for all the time spent explaining them, they are bypassed with ease.
People live in underground vaults and magical underground forests with no real explanation of how that's possible.
So I never read a dungeon crawl before.Certainly not what I was expecting -- not from something written in 1984 (I thought fantasy authors were better than that) -- but it's the best way to describe it.
It's straight out of Dungeons & Dragons.
One of the characters drops out and is never seen again, like she stopped coming to the meetings.
No new character development.
In fact, it seemed the whole purpose was to warp the characters closer to collecting all the swords (although who knows what happens when they do that).
An interesting middle volume that continues the trip through the world of the Swords, the coolest magic swords of them all.Mark & Ben reunite after time apart, and once again Saberhagen doesn't bother filling much about what they were up to (or anyone else really).
Wayfinder, the Sword of Wisdom is the star here held by Baron Doon in his quest for wealth and the group joins forces to get some looting on, gathering a motley crew against the Blue Temple.
The other swords that show up just happen to be convenient solutions to the problem at hand.This book includes dragonslaying again, as well as the fantasy-obligatory dream-like sequence where characters are under the influence of mind-altering magic, as well as deus ex machina-seeming solutions to issues(Oh, I'm suddenly on your side!
Let's get out of this impossible situation that only I could get you out of!)Overall, I think the reason I didn't like this one so much was because solutions are just handed to the characters and aren't thought up by the characters.
But it also wasn't great?
Villain talks like a villain.
Fridged woman talks like a woman that's about to be fridged.
Dumb teenage boy talks like a dumb teenage boy.
Made me wonder why they can't predict their own fates just by the way the other characters talk.Also, even though I'm only 2 books into this series I'm sick of the author basically going out of his way to not include female characters that actually do anything.
Barbara stayed home and got emotionally cheated on, Ariane got fridged, Dame Yoldi wasn't really present...
there were SO many ways the author could've included female characters, but didn't.
Saberhagen provides us with another reasonably strong female character (albeit again only one) who is, quite literally, a self-rescuing princess.
It's in many ways a very odd choice as the second book of a trilogy - it really doesn't develop the overall plot much at all, except for one scene and the distribution of a few Swords whose location we never knew about anyway.
But it's such a damned fun book I almost prefer it this way, because I can reread it independent of the other two and not miss out on anything.
I think I enjoyed the second book of swords much more than the first.
This book is a single adventure: a dungeon crawl/treasure hunt for a treasure hoard of mythic poportions.
Mark and Ben are the main characters here, again.
He seems more well-rounded than Mark, who's purpose is to be mysterious and full of potential.
Damn does the man ever brood.It seems that the giant war that started near the end of the last book has been concluded before the first.
The climax of the book is probably one of my favorite in any fantasy novel.
All in all, a great book.
Not picking up right where the 1st left off, I was a bit confused on who was where.
We do get reintroduced to some familiar characters, and are almost immediately thrown into a new adventure, a search for treasure and to rob "the man", so to speak.
We meet some new swords along the way.
But there is just never quite enough character development for us to ever fear about their potential deaths, and the deaths, when they do occur, are not that dramatic.
And the "twist" at the end, are there 6 or 7 obstacles, well who didn't see THAT coming.Overall its once again a fairly mediocre read.
My quick re-read as an adult of the Swords trilogy continues....
This one was a real let-down because I loved it when I was 13!
Sigh.
It is comparable in quality to the previous book (some fun fantasy ideas, mediocre execution).I wanted to read this book specifically because I was trying to come up with a story idea about a quest for a treasure and I remembered all the traps and tricks surrounding the Blue Temple's treasure being AWESOME.
More popcorn fantasy.
(Maybe the Swords books would have made a good TV series if there weren't already Game of Thrones.)
There is something to be said for simple, straightforward storytelling. This second book of swords is a good heist adventure full of obstacles, magic and action. Saberhagen writing is nothing special but I see that as a quality, in the sense that it keeps the story moving along and makes it easy for the reader to remember what is going at all times. The first two books are good enough that I am will be reading the next book in the series and maybe delve into the prequel Empire of the East.
I read the Sword books in high school. I remember liking them and enjoying having the magic revolve around the weapon rather than a person. In this series I remember liking some books more than others so some of them should probably be rated 4 stars but I don't remember which were the better ones, it has been too many years. This will be the same review for all of the books in the series except for the last two which were published after I left high school and so were not read at the same time.
A great second book! In this story, DragonSlicer, Wayfinder, Farslayer, WeaponBreaker, and Stonecutter find their way into the heroes hands. The book primarily focuses on Ben and Mark's journey into the Blue Temple's vault in order to retrieve more swords for the war. They travel with Baron Doon, who uses Wayfinder. Somewhere near the end though, Hermes tells him that he wasn't even using it correctly, so I'm still wondering what exactly it's capable of. Anyways, it was a good book, well worth reading, and continuing on with Saberhagen's series!
I found this book more enjoyable than the first one, although not as good as the Empire of the East.The story begins some years after the first book and this time Ben is the main character.As before, some of the swords won't appear in this book.The world setting is nice, with lots of factions in the game of the gods board, although the world seens somewhat stagnant since no real scientific or technological advancements where made since Ardneh's time.All in all a very good old fantasy.
Definitely better than the first book. I liked the idea of a bank heist in a fantasy world. The issue I had with this was I don't care about the characters. Normally you get a motley crew to take on a crime like this you get some meaty characters that suffer fates for good or ill that you actually care about. In this, I did not care at all. Could have just been 7 stick figures. Ah well. I will finish the third book of the trilogy and be done with the sword books I think.
After the way the last book ended so abruptly, I expected it to continue in this 2nd novel. Instead, what I got was what I considered to be a sidestory, and one I didn't really care about. I wanted to get back to the war, instead I was on a treasure hunt. I know the books are about the Swords more than any one story, and even in that this failed because it was one Sword throughout most of the book, unlike the first book where a few Swords were in play.
Not as good as the first one. The continuing appeal comes from the Gods and the Swords themselves, and it became worth it to me to rush past the other bits. Not a character driven, or story driven plot, but, as the title might suggest, a sword driven story. At the end of book #2 we are still not quite sure what happened at the end of book #1.
see first book of swords for my review of the series. Its been a while so I may blunder but I seem to recall there weren't any exceptions to the awesomeness outside of the fact that the first three were a little slower than the rest.
Just as awesome as I remembered.
Awesome!
What had been an epic first book comes crashing down in this book-length dungeon crawl. Only the last two chapters manage to capture the former feel of the series.
My review from 1994
FALSE
