https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15790873-this-is-what-happy-looks-like
There really wasn't a plot driving the story forwards and I didn't feel any chemistry between Ellie and Graham.
(hide spoiler)]I felt like this had so much promise, the plot was cute and you could tell she had thought through a lot of backstory for these characters, but I was left feeling very unsatisfied and a bored.
This doesn't have true instalove, as Ellie and Graham had been emailing for months, but they get together right at the beginning, with no build up to their romance.
After a first cliché mishap of mistaken identity, they meet and instantly know this is true love.Okay, they talked for three months via e-mails, so it's not really instalove, but it felt like it.
Whereas I think the concept asked for a happy-go-lucky, totally feel-good kind of romance, I think Jennifer placed way too much emphasis on the underlying "drama" in both of their lives that just made the romance kind of stupid.Like, Ellie is terrified of the paparazzi because she is the illegitimate daughter of a senator.
You can't establish one image of certain characters all throughout the book, and right at the end, over the phone prove that it was totally not like that.
I CANNOT WITH THIS BOOK. I'm pretty much giving it a 5 star because of how much it made me love it. It certainly wasn't perfect, but it was exactly what I needed at the moment and was just PERFECT FOR ME.I loved the characters and the romance and just EVERYTHING SO MUCHHHHH. IT IS EVERYTHING.MY HEART.
Three things why I like reading books by Ms. Jennifer E.
There is a familiarity to her stories the reader could easily relate to.
It’s like watching feel-good romantic movies.
You could easily predict the plot but you enjoy it just the same.
I just thought the alternating POV between the girl and boy would have worked better in these kinds of stories instead of the third person because it seemed like the third person narrative made the pacing a bit more long-winded.
I think it’s also the same reason why I feel quite distant from the characters.
Nevertheless, it was still a good and enjoyable read especially if you’re looking for something light and sweet.
No, this is what boring looks like. After The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight, and now this, I think it's fair to say that Jennifer E Smith's writing is just not for me. The potential is there - interesting premise, realistic complications - but unfortunately the execution is bland and tedious, and I don't feel the most was made of the conflicts raised. Meh.
A sweet romance, a small town, and fun characters make this a great summer read that you should definitely bring on vacation!A modern day fairy tale is what this story is, really.
It's fun for a different reason; instead of being a love story that burns with the fierce realness of two people who fall in love, Jennifer goes into almost every teenage girl's dream and plucks the most famous movie star into the arms of your every day small town girl.
Not the glamorous red carpet side, but how nothing you ever do can be private, and no one truly knows the real you--he even feels like a stranger in his own family.
Believe it or not, I’ve seen You’ve Got Mail and Sleepless in Seattle.
Not willingly, but I’ve seen ‘em.
So if you're looking for some cute emails (it's not written wholly in epistolary form though, don't worry), yeah this book has 'em.
If you're looking for every single movie star tired of his job deciding to looking for romance with a small town girl cliche, though, yeah this book has 'em too.
If you're looking for a saccharine sweet plot that's guaranteed to cause tooth decay, yeah this book has that too.
It is now 11:28 pm.I forced my drooping eyelids to stay open so that I could finish this amazing book.This is officially the best book I have ever read in my 17 years of life.I'm crying and laughing at the same time.I've been given a precious gift; a story that, like a jigsaw piece, has clicked into a place in my heart, a place I never knew was empty and waiting to be filled.I'm so, so happy.
And like our main protagonist, I plan to watch the sunrise and to meet my tomorrow with a smile :)
Sie hatten recht...Durch Zufall landet eine Mail von Teenstar Graham Larkin nicht bei seinem Schweinesitter, sondern bei Kleinstadtmädchen Ellie O'Neill und die beiden beginnen, ohne auch nur den Namen des anderen zu kennen, miteinander zu schreiben.
Ellie ist davon aber nicht so begeistert wie Graham sich das erhofft hatte...Die Geschichte war vor allem deshalb so toll, weil sie realistisch wirkte.
Auch war der Humor einfach TOLL TOLL TOLL ♥ Besonders die Mails habe ich einfach unheimlich gern gelesen =) Vor allem wenn es um Grahams Hausschwein ging xDDabei verläuft das Buch natürlich auch irgendwie typisch und vorhersehbar und die Probleme mit ihrem Vater waren auch leicht überdramatisiert, aber trotzdem habe ich die Geschichte in mich aufgesogen wie einen Schwamm!
Such a cute read. I love Jennifer E. Smith's effortless and charming writing style and stories. I thought this story was adorable and a perfect summer romance! Not my favorite by Jen, but a sweet and heartfelt novel.
DNF at 100 pages. Wow, this novel single handedly solidified my dislike for fiction books about famous people.
The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight used the cliche of love at first sight, and this one of falling in love with a celebrity.
I did wish the mystery of who Graham was withheld a little longer, but it's fine.This book is about twice the length of TSPLFS (Too lazy to type it all :3) but it never felt long.
Like TSPLFS never feeling too short, this one never felt long.
These stories are each at their perfect length.
So. Perfect.And since I loved The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight, I will probably love this one.
Though there never was a real solution to them, there isn't supposed to be one in reality, and I find the no solution part really refreshing.
In reality, there are difficulties we can't tackle, problems we can't handle, that's why the whole plot felt like something that would actually happen in real life, and I love that about the book.
Overall, I thought this book was adorable, and I really want to know what would happen to both of them in the future.
-3.5-"Los recuerdos de infancia eran como el equipaje en los aviones: daba igual lo lejos que viajaras o cuánto tiempo tuvieras que quedarte, solo te permitían llevar una maleta. Y aunque dichas maletas podían contener algunos recuerdos difusos, no parecían suficientes como para durar toda una vida."
The whole mystery of the situation makes Ellie look forward to each exchange with excitement and thrill.What she doesn't know is that the funny, charming stranger is actually Graham Larkin, national movie star and teen heartthrob.
Ellie needs a thousand dollars to pay for a poetry college course at Harvard (which she and 14 other teenagers won) and she can't 'let' Graham help her out.
You know how many people would kill for that kind of loving aid, Ellie?
Can Ellie accept Graham for who he really is when she’s hidden away for so long?After a few mix-ups Ellie finally comes face to face with Graham and she’s in for a surprise as he wasn’t what she was expecting, she feels like she’s been made a fool of, but he’s been the only one she’s ever been able to connect to, so is she going to blow off the relationship (whatever it is) over a few pesky paparazzi?I initially adored the e-mails that went back and forth between Graham and Ellie, they were adorable funny but most of all honest.
It is happy-making though there are rough spots scattered here and there to spice up the narrative.As is usual with YA novels, there are parental issues and this is quite legitimate but I found that Ellie’s scenes with her dad were not as powerful as Smith probably intended them to be and I was rather bummed by how anticlimactic it all turned out to be.
I don’t want the best friend to just be there as a prop, as someone to divert or perhaps focus attention from and to the protagonist.Another issue I had here was with the romance.
Obviously this book makes no secret that it’s primary focus is the romance between Graham and Ellie.
For me, happy looks like reading good books.
Our main character, Ellie was full of hope and dreams that may never come true due to her family's economic issues, but her maintaining positivity during the majority of the time made me like Ellie even more.
Unlike what I suspected, Graham did not hold some I-too-good-for-you attitude compared to other cast members of This Is What Happy Looks Like.These to practically polar opposites turned out to be an unconvincing couple.
More depth, more motion and more intricacy.This Is What Happy Looks Like is a cute summer read that lacks a little complication but is satisfying all the same.
And I surely will!This story is written in third person, but it is written so good that it took me almost one third of the book to realize it was not written in first person.That happens very rarely to me and I always take it as a good thing.I liked every single character in this book.The thing I liked the most was that Graham was a celebrity actor and since I like to read and watch the news when it comes to famous people, I liked reading about Graham's (let's call it) adventures on the set, celebrity gossip plotting from his menager and everything that comes between.This book has one particular scene that got me so invested into that moment of reading, it made me feel things I wouldn't expect I would, it made me sad.
That scene is (view spoiler)[when Ellie comes to her dad and he doesn't know who she is.
"You've Got Mail" + "Sleepless in Seattle" + the super star thing + a mystery in the family?!
The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight was a little more enjoyable read for me and I liked the story line of that better.
Graham the originator of the e-mail is really a famous actor and it has been so long since someone has treated him the way Ellie does that he had almost forgot how lonely he had become in the middle of his fame.
He is able to set up the location of his movie in the sleepy little town that Ellie lives in, in hopes of finally meeting the mystery girl.Cue the rest of the story.
Everyone a flutter over the hot young star is not something studious Ellie can relate to so when Graham shows up and announces he's the mystery boy that Ellie had been falling for online she's obviously quite shocked.
This Is What Happy Looks Like is basically like a young adult version of Sleepless in Seattle.
Along with Ellie and Graham's online and off relationship there's a bit more to the story that added a bit of suspense to the read.
Definitely a young adult version of Sleepless in Seattle type of read.
Cramathon read #2: COMPLETE!This book was a bit of a mess. I really wanted to like this because it sounded SO cute, but it was a bit of a letdown. The writing was fine and the characters were cute but there were just TOO many things happening. I feel like this would have been so much better if the author had cut back on some of the dramatics tbh.
4.5 stars. Super easy and cute read. I definitely want to check out Jennifer E Smith's other books.
Over the few months they spend emailing each other, the two learn more about each other, and Ellie does give "GDL" the name of the town she lives in and that she works in the only sweets shop in town......clearly the whole "internet predator" thing went out the window just like that.
And it goes from there.The emails that went back and forth between Graham and Ellie were really cute and I was excited to read this!
Graham is so cute, and I loved his background and Ellie is a sweet, mature, and smart girl.
There were no major revelations, just a steady stream of "Oh, well, it happened, guess there's nothing to be done for it now." The characters are shallow and unsympathetic in their lethargy, and the author just barely skimmed the top of cliched teen angst in her attempt to make an emotional connection with the reader.
There aren't any major reasons for their sadness other than the fact that neither of them seems capable of connecting with another human being on an emotional level.
If this book had a bit more emotional depth, the attempted heavy ending could have been justified.
For someone who gives five full stars to every book that has successfully managed to extract one happy tear out of her eyes, this book proved to be way too much endearing and heartwarming. It's not the storyline that got me reading in the first place, but rather the peculiar and seemingly funny first few pages that promised yawn-free, tedium-free waking hours of the entire night!  //–Uh-oh.–What?–I forgot my phone.–So?–So how am I supposed to e-mail you now?–I guess we’ll just have to talk.////–
(Funny how Bagel is the name of Ellie's poodle, and this is the first time I came across this joke, although I don't know about you.)The whole book is peppered with witty conversations that'll make your lips curl up unconsciously in a smile or worst yet, make you let out a hearty chuckle, if you're a sucker for not-so-cheesy-or-overwhelming-but-undeniably-adorable-teenage-romance!This story about just Graham and Ellie(sans their usual character profiles- he's a teenage movie star and she's a small town girl who sets out in search of her estranged father who happens to be a senator) is one that, after you age significantly as a reader and when you look back at your bookshelf, will definitely elicit a 
I thought this book was pretty good! Definitely a very fluffy, easy contemporary read. I wish there was more of a dialogue with Quinn and Ellie's relationship, their feud in the beginning felt to forced to me. Otherwise it was pretty good! I loved the town of Henley, I could imagine it perfectly in my mind! 3.7 stars!
This was a fun and entertaining book.
Not anything special or even memorable, but I had a lot of fun reading it.The book is told from the point of view of Ellie and Graham.
Ellie is a small town girl, she’s smart and has always dreamed of going to an Ivy League collage.
Graham is a movie star.
A few months back Graham mistook Ellie’s email for someone else’s and they started writing to each other and when he goes to her small town to film a movie they meet.Overall it was a cute book, as I said nothing special.
Her writing is strong, controlled and brings fresh emotion to the story-line and it's characters.Graham Larkin has risen to unexpected stardom as one of the hottest movie stars in his time, but he hasn't felt like himself till one day his e-mail went to a different address.
This Is What Happy Looks Like, is a perfectly entertaining, light, romantically sweet story about a mistake that became the very best thing that could ever happen.
Fate works in mysterious ways and this was another brilliant story by Smith that captures the feeling of anything can happen if you just believe, and happiness really does look a lot like love.
