https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/246255.The_Middle_Ages
Morris Bishop's highly readable survey of The Middle Ages condenses a thousand years of history often dismissed for its darkness, violence, and superstition and incorrectly portrayed as an unfortunate chasm between the glory of ancient times and the Renaissance that drew on a renewed interest in the classics.Bishop's survey, unlike Asimov's histories, covers the period thematically rather than chronologically.
Less familiar topics (to me, anyway) included Towns and Trade, The Life of Labor, and The Life of Thought.Perhaps some of the most surprising history of the Middle Ages is the development of capitalism and commerce and the rise of towns, which greatly promoted the common welfare, including the privilege of self-government purchased from money-strapped nobles.
Do you want to know what happened from about 300 AD to around 1000 or so? Then this book gives you good, solid chapters that make sense.We had it for our Medieval European history course in university, and it was pretty good. I read it a few times in that regard, as you do when you read the same chapter a few times that week.I'd actually like to read this again, because we all know how 'in one ear and out the other' college books can be.
Like your British grandfather telling stories by the fire. There are no notes or references, so who knows how accurate this is, but Bishop's a good storyteller.
The first couple of chapters are dedicated to the main historical events, divided into early period and high/late middle ages.
The following chapters are dedicated to specific topics: the hierarchical structure of feudal society, war, chivalry, religion, trade, education, literature, drama, sciences and the arts.
This book may not appeal to serious scholars (it is lacking even the basic references to sources, no notes are provided, etc.) and I noticed a couple of mistakes and some wide generalization (e.g. regarding local governance and the arts).
Overall, however, it is a well written, informative and very enjoyable introduction to the middle ages period in Europe.
Before buying this book, set your expectation straight: it isn't an event-driven history book with details about every war and political change.
Granted, I need to look up the dictionary every now and then (English is my second language and I am not a liberal arts major), but the narrative is fluent and concise.
I am completely ignorant of the middle age history.
After reading the book, even though I still don't know all the popes, wars and dynasties in detail, I have a pretty firm grasp of how people live and think in the "middle" ages.
easily readable, but completely lacking footnotes/references/bibliography, even for the most simple of things like a king's birth date. Where he uses quotations, he notes the person who (supposedly?) made the statement, but not where he actually found the citation. good for a beginner book or a pleasure read, but i could never recommend using this as a reference for anything serious; it would rank, at absolute best, as a tertiary source. given 3 stars because it is an enjoyable read, if one is looking for a non-scholarly overview of the era.
If you are even remotely interested in the Middle Ages, this book is quite the find. Bishop's writing is clear, accessible, detailed and very funny. A solid primer on a strange age
Why do I rate a dry history book so high? Because it’s not dry at all it’s very interesting and engaging. Don’t be surprised if you find yourself talking about its details with friends and family. This book exemplifies Bill Cosby’s cartoon admonition if you’re not careful you might learn something.
Fascinating coverage of the evolution of building styles, the construction of cathedrals, the use of stained glass (which told the stories of the Christian faith through "colored sunshine", though Bishop felt the term stained glass was incorrect, as it was not stained with color but rather infused with it), the work and role of artisans in society, and the origins of musical notation (developed during the eleventh century into our recognizably modern form, which was also when our notes were named - ut, re, mi, fa, so, la - from the opening syllables of the successive lines of a familiar hymn).The final chapter dealt with the end of the Middle Ages.
"It's All left to the imagination."I really enjoyed the audiobook for the most part.
It was very interesting to hear about what life was like for various types of people in the middle ages rather then endless names of kings and battles and dates.
The big problem I had with this audiobook was that the later chapters talked a lot about art and architecture.
It would have been very helpful to have have a pdf guidebook with PICTURES and illustrations.
I even purchased the kindle ebook in hopes of getting pictures, diagrams and maps, but it had NONE!
An ebook that discuss art and architecture without a single picture.
This is a good brief overview of history and culture of the middle ages. It shows that this was by no means a stagnant period of European history. The book would be much more useful if it included a bibliography and a reference list. I expect this omission is the publisher's fault, not the author's. There is no excuse for omitting these scholarly additions to an e-book, where the additional pages would cost virtually nothing. The book has no maps or illustrations. The chapter on medieval art prompted me to go back to my art history textbook.
Very interesting content but reads a bit like a textbook. Covers a wide swath. Basically all of Europe for hundreds of years. What various classes of people ate (diet), did for work (occupations), wore (fashion), learned (education), lived (living conditions, community, social), how they entertained themselves (art & sport), etc. Not to mention government (Feudalism, etc.), war, religion and so on. A very ambitious topic in just over 250 pages.
Good overview of the period.I did not like the way this book was organized. The book covers large topics (knights, art, thought) and then bounces around over 500 years and multiple countries on that topic. The result is some amusing anecdotes (and I certainly learned some things), but this approach made the book a good cure for insomnia.
Can one cover well all of 1000 years of history of Western Europe in a single reasonably sized book? Of course not, but Bishop has written an excellent summary of it with broad coverage of topics and lots of interesting detail. Well worth reading, particularly if one, like me, previously had only a casual knowledge of parts of the period.
This is a great overview of a period which has gotten a bit of a bad rap (The Dark Ages, The Plague). Bishop shows that it was a time of great advancement and positive change as well. His description of the feudal way of life, knighthood and the role of the Church are especially fascinating.
Splendid overview of the Middle Ages, masterfully written, and covering every aspect possible. I can certainly imagine myself picking this up for further reference in the future. Highly recommend it.
ExcellentI wish every history book was written from this exemplar. It had none of the excruciating detail that usually makes me abandon a history book. I learned so much.
great readvery informative. Tells the good, the bad and the ugly. Loved that the author was honest and didn't make it sound like a magical time.
The problem with reading books about similar topics in short succession is that you end up comparing them whether you want to or not. In comparison with the previous books on a similar topic I've read I have to admit I found this one less engaging, more anecdotal and harder to follow. I accept that the fault might (like always) lay in me instead.
This was a really good book to get an overall impression of the Middle Ages. Now I can take a deeper dive into the various historical events that took place in this 1000 year period of time
I picked up The Middle Ages by Morris Bishop after reading Juliet Barker's Agincourt and Conquest.
Instead it tells the story of life in the Middle Ages.
With good humor and wit, Bishop tells the reader what it was like to live during the Middle Ages and how life changed through the era.
Other specialized books will tell you what happened during the Middle Ages and when it happened, but this book is a social history that gives you a background in what the Middle Ages were like for those who lived it and the roles of each part of society were.
The East Roman Empire continued to thrive while changes were being made to western civilization that are still being felt today.Morris Bishop has taken a non-linear approach to his telling of the Middle Ages.
This allows the reader to devote themselves wholly to understanding the progress of civilization without being confused by other facets of society taking place.
There are no footnotes to back up the author's statements; indeed, this is more story telling than history lesson.
However, in my opinion, the reader would have been better served by having the historians remarks Bishop quotes be footnoted in order for others to verify the veracity of their statements.
Bishop's book is a good tertiary source on the middle ages but I would classify it as a commentary rather than a history.
The narrative is lively and Bishop's wit makes it an enjoyable read.
It would perhaps be a good "first book" for anyone interested in the Middle Ages.
What is perhaps more clear is that Bishop had little respect for them.
The seminole events of the Middle Ages were the Plague, the Hundred Years War and the time the papacy was moved to Avignon and the battles to return it to Rome.
The reviews I'd read on Amazon and elsewhere basically said, "It's very general, but if you know nothing about the Middle Ages, then it's a good intro!" Well, let me tell you: I know nothing about the Middle Ages, and but this book was REALLY general, and I could have used a little more information.
That mostly comes in the form of examples; Morris would make vast generalizations without telling you where he got the info, or at least who the information pertained to.
General points are enlivened by vivid passages, rich in concrete detail, which bring medieval scenes to life.
The writing style is elegant, often witty, and unpretentious.
No great thesis is being driven forward here, and, as others mention, there is no academic apparatus - but there's hardly a shortage of scholarly literature out there with footnotes and bibliographies aplenty.
This reminded me of the writing of Barbara Tuchman (The Calamitous Century) and Donald Howard (biography of Chaucer) in its memorable evocation of the millennium between the fall of Rome and the Fall of Constantinople.
A strongly recommended general guide to the period.

This book gives a very solid overview of the Middle Ages, however that serves as its biggest weakness as well.
Because it is so general, it left me wanting to learn more about specific topics.
Lastly, again due to the generality of the book, often it felt like merely a stream of consciousness delivered by Morris, rather than a well-organized description or narrative--which again hurt my ability to retain the information about topics for later when they would resurface.
Overall, I felt it was a very good book for what its purpose is.
This book offers a good overview of the Middle Ages without being simplistic or reductive.
Captures the contradictions of the Middle Ages-- a time contradictory enough to serve as an inspiration for both hippies and fundamentalists.
St. Francis talked to animals, loved the sound of the lute, and embraced nature as whole-heartedly as a Deadhead on acid.
Yet, had St. Francis believed any number of minor deviations from orthodoxy, he would have been tortured and killed in ways Wes Craven couldn't even imagine.
Morris does a good job making the humanity and diversity of the Middle Ages, without weighing the reader down with too much detail.

Not exactly a page-turner, but that's not what you'd expect. The author does a pretty good job of covering a very large tract of history (half a millennium) of a significant part of the world (Europe). Quite a tall order. Some interesting facts, some of which other reviewers have disputed. What I found particularly odd were the credits at the end - all sorts of academic hangers-on from the author's institution wanting a look-in. I've heard jokes about the political machinations of history departments, but didn't realise it was so very real.
