https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16059.The_Dive_From_Clausen_s_Pier
It had potential - the plot centers around the question of what we owe those we love.
The main character is a girl engaged to a man who becomes a paraplegic just after their relationship goes sour.
The problem is that this becomes a novel about a girl trying to become a fashion designer in NY and the paraplegic boyfriend is left in the dust after all of 90 pages.
This is a novel about NY fashion that was clearly written by an author who knows nothing about the topic.
The Midwest setting appealed to me; I live and grew up in Northeast Wisconsin.
The appeal ends there.
She had wanted to end the relationship before the accident, it's not like she dumped him over the fact he became paralyzed.
I read this quite awhile ago and don't remember much about it other than the fact that I WANTED TO STRANGLE this girl at the end of the book.
Probably appeals to any woman who has stayed in a loveless relationship out of guilt, as if that's a gift to the other.
UG! I can't put into words my utter disappointment with the main character Carrie. I actually wanted her to come to life so I could bitch slap her. I don't want to divulge too much for I might ruin the ending for those who want to read it (please don't). The story had merit, the writing was good, but the ending was utterly incomprehensible to me. I actually felt trapped as if the main character were making life decisions for me. I felt doomed to a life without personal growth. rrrgg.
Finishing Ann Packer's The Dive From Clausen's Pier is at once an immense relief and an immense loss.
The entire book is one long exercise in feeling and memory, in love and in loss.
Packer such a wonderful writer, she actually makes you feel what Carrie, her main character, feels, even after the book has been closed.
Any yet, somehow it feels more difficult to experience this kind of book as a thirty-something.
A young woman, in her twenties or even teens, could love this book and let it leave her with a sense of adventure--with the anticipation of life.
No. But with pressure from all sides, her mother, Mike's parents, their friends in Madison, Carrie feels terrible about deciding to leave and not return home.
The book leaves you in genuine suspense as to whether Carrie will abandon Mike for a new life or will she turn her back on her own needs and settle down to do the "right thing".
I hate the pressure of the world's expectations weighing on me as I read a book that it seems everyone else in the world likes.
(see below) But even in this book, the usual pretentiousness of a writer writing about NY disappeared into one great story.
Way back in the day, I used to read these terrible teen dramas by Lurlene McDaniel.
So I stopped reading those books.The Dive From Clausen's Pier was a grown-up Lurlene McDaniel' novelette.
Yes. An enjoyable read?
The pivotal event happens so early in the book (i.e. page 5 or so) that I had no connection to the characters before I saw them "change" due to grave circumstances.
One character is purposefully enigmatic, but as hard as it is for the heroine to get to know Kilroy, it is even harder for the reader to connect - or care.Somehow, I liked this book.
I found myself totally involved in what Carrie, the narrator of this novel, was going to do with her life.Carrie is engaged to be married to Mike, the archetypal all-American Midwestern man.
She loves New York, but is very affected by the loss of her life in Madison, especially around the rift that develops between her and her BFF Jamie.
It really is a very lovely book, and I was rarely bored as I was reading it, on the level of an Anne Tyler sort of experience.
Carrie Bell is a 23 year old woman who is questioning whether Mike, her high school boyfriend turned fiancee, is really the man and the life she wants to commit to.
Or would she be the kind of person who would willingly walk away and break the heart of a nice guy?We learn about ourselves in stages: facts first, meanings later.
Ann Packer is dead on in her portrayal of the painful questions, trials, and decisions that face an individual and family when a random, tragic accident forever changes life into before and after.
Carrie Bell has lived in Wisconsin all her life.
Is it a sign of strength or of weakness to walk away from someone in need?The Dive from Clausen’s Pier reminds us how precarious our lives are and how quickly they can be divided into before and after, whether by random accident or by the force of our own desires.
It begins with a disaster that could happen, out of the blue, in anybody’s life, and it forces us to ask how we would bear up in the face of tragedy and what we know, or think we know, about our deepest allegiances.
It is a rich and utterly human story of loss, coming of age and self-discovery.
Carrie, the protagonist, is a 23-year old girl who hasn't yet been allowed to spread her wings.
When she is considering making a life change, destiny makes it for her.
I think that the themes explored in this book are applicable to any living human being.
Though we may not have to face this exact scenario, we all have to make difficult decisions in life even when some of those decisions seem to have been already made for us.
I was, however, unsatisfied with Carrie's eventual development as a person.
i grew up near madison and kept trying to find connection to the characters and places.
i just kept thinking "why would people like her?" and "who the fuck would be friends with these people?" - everyone was a cliche, or not very detailed.
i really like the premise of the book - your fiance is in an accident and now a parapalegic, what do you do?
i finished it, and a lot of the writing is strong, and it wasn't what i expected it to be.
when i finished i read a lot of really angry - and funny - reviews on amazon.
(spoiler) Running away from the situation, Carrie flees to New York City (from Madison, WI) and begins a new relationship with someone she feels a deeper emotional and intellectual connection with.
You can feel the hope Ann Packer puts into the pages - Carrie seems so happy and at peace (mostly) with her life in New York.
This book does have its moments of clarity - Packer captures the heartbreak and overwhelming sense of insecurity of a girl released from a confining and doomed relationship.
However, the last 1/3 of the book is so morbidly depressing and weak that I would NOT recommend this to someone looking for hope after a long relationship.
The premise and first chapter contained a good enough hook to make me wonder how in the heck Carrie, the main character, was going to handle the situation the author threw at her.Carrie and Mike had been dating since high school.
She drew Carrie's life in NYC out so long I wanted to throw the book against the wall, because I knew damn well Carrie had to go back and confront the mess she left behind.
And even THAT would have been okay with me- if it weren't for the fact Carrie wasn't making any self discoveries while separated from the situation.True, the author gave Carrie new relationships in NYC, but she didn't really develop them enough to make the book more interesting.
I hated it.The plot of this book - and yes, i'll be spoiling it - is that there is this girl who hates her bf, wants to break up with him.
New guy is somewhat screwed up, but this is where this book divides into a love it or hate it book.
She eventually succeeds, while with new guy, but then goes back to home where poor paralyzed ex-bf is.
New-bf shows up, but eventually he goes home and she goes back to old-bf, in her old home town, trapped in the life she didn't want in the first place.In other words: I hated it.
Ugh. Wish I had back the time it took out of my life to read this. The worst things about this book: 1. I simply did NOT find the actions, thoughts, and dialogue believable for a young woman of her age. 2. The NYC stuff was beyond ridiculous and not even remotely realistic. Maybe it would have been better if she'd been the one crippled instead of her boyfriend. She has so many emotional problems including being both a control freak and a giant martyr that I just hated her.
2.5/5I knew nothing about this book going in. It had been gifted to me, so I decided to give it a go. For me, books with "plotless" plots had better be written well in order to work. Unfortunately this just didn't do it for me. Basically Carrie ditches her long-term boyfriend after he becomes a quadriplegic from a dive gone wrong. Carrie then moves to New York in favor of new boyfriend Kilroy. That's it. Nothing else. And the execution was boring AF.
It's about a young couple in their early 20s living in the midwest-- Wisconsin (I think).
She's about to break up with him, then he has a horrible diving accident while they're picnicing with friends.
Up until this point, everyone including both of their parents have assumed they were going to be married because they've dated for so long.
She wanted to break it off with him before the accident, now what should she do?
Still, she's young and needs to get on with her life.
I felt so torn because I loved both of these young people.
Meghan from my Book Lust class kept talking about how thought-provoking this book was, so when I saw it on the school library shelf, I picked up it during my lunch break.
I am compelled to read on!*later*Wow, I finally finished this last night, and feel satisfied at the ending.
I was afraid for awhile that I was going to be disappointed, but it seemed realistic to me and there was even a little surprise.
The story posed a moral quandary, described a believable relationship (actually a variety of believable friendships, parental relationships, romantic ones, etc.), and featured lovely writing.
This is now one of my favorite books!
Reading this I was really impressed at what an undeniably good writer Ann Packer is, but then I really disliked the book itself. It was just sort of dumb. The protagonist kept having all these realizations and experiences and stuff that all just seemed really obvious and banal to me. It was kind of like reading a book about dogs who had no idea what dogs were & had only just discovered them & was going on and one about how amazing dogs were, & has no idea that everyone knows what a dog is, dummy.
A story that strikes home because the main character does not do what seems to be the right thing. She is confused, sometimes self-centered, yet struggles to keep her integrity in an overwhelming turn of events. Packer perfectly captures her alienation. This one made me think, and made me feel like I had just heard the story of someone I knew.
the book starts off with carrie describing a little of herself and how mike,her sweetheart of 8 year
I definitely wanted to know what Carrie, a 23-year-old girl from Madison, Wisconsin, was going to do when faced with a fiancee who broke his neck and became a quadriplegic.
The story felt hackneyed in many parts: the "I couldn't help but wonder" moments; the vague "it wasn't that, nor did I know what it was." Carrie is an annoying character, but if everyone could read their own internal dialogue on paper, I'm sure it'd be annoying as well.
He begs her to return to New York, doesn't understand why she has to patch things up with her best friend -- "why not write her a long letter?" -- or her ex.
Carrie is emotionally paralyzed with fear of making the wrong decision: "How much do we owe the people we love?...What I had discovered was that I couldn't give up my life for Mike--that how I saw it at the time, that's the choice I thought I had to make.
Yet the same person who could not stay on as the dutiful girlfriend with the paraplegic boyfriend, cannot quite restart her life in New York as a fashion designer and girlfriend of the beautiful yet indecipherable Kilroy.
And the decisions Carrie makes are what make this novel "hard" art instead of "soft" art, using the distinction Kilroy uses at the MoMA between Picasso and Matisse.
But that's a lot to ask someone at any age, let alone at age 23, when you were already contemplating life without your fiance and an accident leaves him paralyzed.The author did a great job of showing how tormented Carrie was by her actions, her decisions, and their consequences.I was disappointed by the ending of the book, because although Carrie did grow, she ended up right back where she started.
I think it would have been a much more interesting story if Carrie had resolved things with Mike, with her best friend, and her mother and then headed back to NYC to make a new life for herself.
Ironically, a Google search did inform me that it has had a second life as an honest-to-goodness Lifetime movie (or maybe it was Oxygen; I wasn't paying that close of attention).For emotion-centric, literary fiction, it was jarringly suspenseful.
I felt desperate to figure out how Carrie's story ends, and I felt an unexpected urgency about whether the "right" thing would happen in her life--although I can't exactly figure out what the right thing is, what I want her life to be like.
Criticisms aside, this was an incredibly poignant and surprisingly rich work, a moving story of loss and self discovery.
This might be a case of the right book with the right emotional tone at the right time.
She is planning to get married to her childhood sweetheart, Mike, whom she has been with 'forever'.
But her big secret is...she doesn't really want to marry him.
The book just kept surprising me over and over again from there.
Even though Carrie's feelings and reactions to what happens to Mike are not what people expect, and not what she wants them to be – they are honest.
I loved the way the book kept me guessing, and the way in which no one was a caricature, they were all fully fleshed out, living, breathing individuals.
I couldn't really relate to any of the characters in this book, so no matter what situations they got themselves in (and the main character did nothing BUT get in situations), I found myself reading on more to find out how the author would get them out than what the actual characters would do.
In the end, I was disappointed by the catalyst for action the author used.
If you read this book in the past, do you even remember Lynn?
Remember how important she was to the plot?
I doubt I will in a week or so.
This is actually a re-read. I first read it several years ago when I was closer in age to the main character. I remember loving this book and listing it as one of my all-time favorites. Now I'm not sure why, as this time around I was so annoyed with Carrie (the main character) and didn't find much in here to be realistic or inspiring in any way. I enjoyed all the supporting characters and their stories, but I'm relieved the twenty-something me didn't follow in any of their paths.
This is the second time I read this book. The first must have been over 10 years ago, before I started keeping my reads on Goodreads. I am still much impressed by this book. It really sets down all the confusing feelings of being in a relationship. It impacted me deeply
First impression of this was that it is Carrie's journey of discovering who she is and wants to be.
How tragedy can force you to make decisions about your life.
That it seemed Carrie was a passenger in her life previously and that the catalyst event put her in the drivers seat.
I went back and forth about several of the main characters as to whether they were good or bad which can be intriguing.
Pretty soon I realized the ending was going to be the deciding factor in my liking of the book.
The end let me down and thus I disliked the book.
