https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419613.Apocalypse
In fact, I thought that, with my very little knowledge on those, I was not yet prepared for this book.One eye-opening part that I enjoyed and read many times is found on page 5 and it talks about the difference between reading many books and re-reading those that you find meaningful: "Now a book lives as long as it is unfathomed.
It is an amazing thing, how utterly different a book will be, if I read it again after 5 years.
My first time to read as many books in a year for my entire life!
This is a hard book to review, because it’s quite short and yet every single paragraph is bristling with ideas.
Technically so concise and yet so poetic.Basically he is discussing the anomaly that is the Book of Revelations, and how poorly it fits into what purports to be a Christian gospel.
He traces the pagan roots of all the symbolism and discusses the mind set of it’s authors and of it’s audience.In doing so he presents a consummate critique of Christianity and of our modern democratic system.
I don’t think any book has ever inspired me more.
to think there are some people who say God does not exist." Lawrence captures this awe in a beautiful passage:Surely one of the greatest imaginative experiences the human race has ever had was the Chaldean experience of the stars, including the sun and moon.
Can't he see that he is merely describing himself, and that the self he is describing is merely one of the more dead and dreary states that man can exist in?Finally, Lawrence highlights a significant point I'd never noticed about Revelation: the destiny of the cosmos.
Having done one memoir and two Salinger novels, we decided to move ahead with this, D.H. Lawrence's last work, motivated in part by my interest in biblical exegesis in general and of the Book of Revelation in particular.
Generally speaking, he subscribes to the fringe theory that the text, as we have it, represents a pagan original, then a Jewish and finally a Christian redaction.
Indeed, most of the book is opinion, opinion which might be of interest to Lawrence biographers as they reveal much about him while revealing little about the text or its author(s).
Lawrence reconsiders the most controversial book of the New Testament -- the Revelation of St. John -- as a horoscopic blueprint meant to connect man with the cosmos via the unification of body and soul, but one that over time was expurgated by the early church founders to erase all traces of pagan belief and philosophy.
It was the last book Lawrence ever wrote, and he may have spent himself putting everything he had into it, all his anti-Christian, anti-democratic, pro-sensuality ideas.
It is trying to be an insightful book, but it only comes through as the ravings of an old, bitter man.
It is murky, full of bile all the way and feels like one of those self-published books people try to peddle on the streets.
If you remove the name D.H. Lawrence from the cover, nobody would take it seriously and discuss about it.
It was about 30 pages, supposedly in the format of a letter to Lawrence's wife but the guy was so pompous that he could not even keep his selected style.
Get a book, man!
What begins as as a criticism of Christianity and more specifically, of that unfortunate collection of febrile ravings, the Book of Revelation, soon turns into its own jumbled mess of nonsense, non sequiturs, gross generalizations of humanity, and confident assertions of unknowable facts about the ancient world.
I think Lawrence is really onto something when he boils Revelation down to essentially a revenge fantasy of the downtrodden, and his assertions that our scientific understanding of the world and ourselves has necessarily destroyed something primal and yet fundamental to a fulfilled human life certainly warrant a discussion.
I certainly feel like he wasted mine.
في ترجمة رديئة أقتفيت اثر الأديب الإنجليزي ديفيد لورانس وهو يناقش أخر كتاب في الهعد الجديد (رؤيا يوح
But a democracy is bound in the end to be obscene, for it is composed of myriad disunited fragments, each fragment assuming to itself a false wholeness, a false individuality.
In the end, it is all resistance and no love: which is the history of democracy."If you are taking the path of individual self-realization, you had better, like Buddha, go off and be by yourself, and give a thought to nobody.
Christ's way of loving your neighbour leads to the hideous anomaly of having to live by sheer resistance to your neighbour, in the end."The Apocalypse, strange book, makes this clear.
An interesting read, lots of little antidotes. Like it says on the back of my edition, you learn more about Lawrence himself than the topic at hand. He did bring up some interesting points about the book of revelation, namely possible/definite pagan roots.
The best thing about this slim book is that there is some seriously poetic and passionate writing on Lawrence's part, with one or two great quotes, and he does have some amazing underlying spirit, so I enjoyed reading this book for that reason.
With the disclaimer that I'm not a theologian nor a Christian, I don't have a big problem with this because it's obvious that the Apocalypse is totally different to the Gospels, is really bizarre and that the Bible is man-made.
c) It felt like he was being seriously rose-tinted about past civilisations rather than acknowledging that when they worshipped the cosmos instead of Christianity or Judaism they no doubt had problems just as much.
An author who put his soul into his books--his anger and bile; his egotism; his flaws; his sexuality; his acute perception; his mother issues; his father issues; his issues with women; and so on...
On this reading, I felt like I was hearing an angry sick man ranting at me with at times second rate Nietzschean ideas.
Lawrence's analysis of the actual work of the apocalypse in the last chapters is rather weak, and obviously they are ravings.
Again, what a man and an author.
Every time I read his work (and even his ravings), I feel a different perspective of life.
While framing Revelations as an ultimate Christian revenge fantasy overall, Lawrence examines the imagery in the various sections of Revelations and concludes that its contents originated in ancient mythology, was later modified by Jewish doctrine, and then had a thick layer of Christian doctrine added before final editing so as to be somewhat consistent with the rest of the New Testament.Out of literary interest I read the Bible cover-to-cover about twenty years ago, and remember plodding through Revelations in a last test of endurance.
A+ analysis of the Book of Revelation, studying a number of compelling themes: * Revelation's call-backs to pagan symbolism* its particular popularity among the poor and powerless* individuality versus collectivism in Christianity* fear and envy as major drivers of Christianity* modern man's loss of connection with the cosmosThe last item in particular touches many similar points as Chesterton does with "The Ethics of Elfland" in Orthodoxy.
I plan to get on to The Everlasting Man and do some re-reading of both to discern more.I'll wrap up with my favorite quote of the book:"Society consists of a mass of weak individuals trying to protect themselves, out of fear, from every possible imaginary evil, and, of course, by their very fear, bringing the evil into being."
Apocalypse doesn't contain material dramatically different from, say, Studies in Classic American Literature.
Both books use other texts as platforms for Lawrence to expound his (again, very Nietzschean) philosophy: Studies uses American Lit, and Apocalypse uses the book of Revelation.
Hence the three stars...the book gets bogged down in the symbolism of the horns and dragons, even if only to assert that it's horrible symbolism.One major difference between the two works is that Apocalypse focuses far more intently on man's relationship to the cosmos; Studies is much more about the difference between "civilized" and "savage" man, racial/cultural theories, and the dichotomy of intellect vs.
Read Studies to learn DHL's thoughts on man's relationship to himself; read Apocalypse to learn his theories on man's relationship to everything else.
At first, I had a hard time taking in all of Lawrence's anger.
Fortunately, Lawrence does more than just rant.
I surely don't remember ever discussing it at school.
There is nothing of me that is alone and absolute except my mind, and we shall find that the mind has no existence by itself, it is only the glitter of the sun on the surface of the waters." He directs readers to "re-establish the living organic connections, with the cosmos, the sun and earth, with mankind and nation and family."

Part of my dissatisfaction with this book may stem from my ignorant assumption: that it was a work of fiction. It was, therefore, hard to mentally adjust into reading a theoretical critique of the book of Revelations. I am glad I followed through with it and I do hope some day to return to it with the proper expectation of its content. Overall, though, while dry and at times tedious, Lawrence shows he knows his facts. He raises far more plausible ideas and concepts about the writing of the book of Revelations than I was at first comfortable with.
This is a weird and sometimes disturbing book - not unlike the Revelation on which it is a commentary. Lawrence's dislike of women, Jews and commoners (and democracy) is frequently explicit - and he's no fan of Christians either, especially if they are common, or Jewish, or both. It does have a few interesting points to make about the potential pagan symbolism of Revelation, but I couldn't recommend it as a book about the Bible.
'The Apocalypse is the feet of clay to the grand Christian image. And down crashes the image, on the weakness of these very feet.There is Jesus - but there is also John the Divine. There is Christian love - and there is Christian envy. The former would 'save' the world - the latter will never be satisfied till it has destroyed the world. They are two sides of the same medal.' 119
Bom. Muito bom.
Want to reread
It is a must-read: one of the jewels "hidden among the leaves" burning with a gem-like flame. It is a pure bioluminescence, a firefly of our consciousness.
this book is pretty cool if you want to read dh lawrence rambling about how the book of revelation is really about paganism
read the intro and 1st page in siva. looked interesting.
