https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/884504.Violin_Playing_As_I_Teach_It
Not as scientific as the amazing and all-inclusive Art of Playing of the Violin by Carl Flesch but it’s still a great read, every violinist should get familiar with this book by Leopold Auer
Leopold Auer was a prominent violinist of the nineteenth century who got a the job of running the music school at St. Petersburg along with distinguished colleagues such as Nicolas Rubenstein (brother of the famous pianist Anton Rubenstein).
(In other accounts Heifetz gives Auer credit for polishing him up socially and in proper public presentation, violinistically there was not much left to add.) All the same he did expedite the passage of these artists, with their individuality intact, to the world stage (and recordings) and for that we can be grateful.
Pretty good book that covers a great deal of technique and philosophy of an instrument, and even recommends many other texts and teachers and has some autobiographical elements of the author as well.
One thing that I really liked about this is that it serves somewhat of an instructional role, but then also serves a role as a narrative in exploring the techniques, how you should be thinking, what to consider in posture and breathing, and more.
I think the book is a little impractical in terms of its age, but at the same rate I think that it has survived so long because of how different it is than most technique and teaching books.
This book is a great little resource of violin pedagogy because Auer forgoes any purely technical instruction in favor of broader, almost poetic descriptions and observations taken directly from his experience. He wisely observes that much of the mechanical and technical facets of playing the violin need to be patiently worked out by the student in their own fashion.
I thought that his book was okay. It was non fiction by a really good violin teacher, but he was no good at actually playing. The book was on how and what to practice.
Interesting, amusing, and good insights into the history of violin playing and teaching including evolution of the repertoire. Too bad I have fallen off the practice wagon!
Lots of things to learn from Heifetz and Elman's Tutor...
Wonderful insight into playing and teaching the violin from the Master who studied with Dont and Joachim and produced students like Heifetz, Elman, Seidel, and Zimbalist.
