https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/214180.Master_of_Middle_Earth
According to my bookmark, I was a chapter from finishing this when I finished my essay and never looked at it again.
And, for some reason, I don't recall referencing this book at all, even though actually it would have been useful -- it makes some handy links and the author understood Tolkien's work and aims very well.
I was tempted to reread LotR again straight after I finished my essay, and flicking through this book again makes me really want to do that.
I wouldn't have thought there was more to say about Tolkien and the Lord of the Rings after Shippey's structural analysis and Stratford Caldecott's brilliant essay, "Over the Chasm of Fire".
Mr. Kocher writes clearly and respectfully, and his analysis opened my eyes to aspects I hadn't considered before.
I hadn't been aware of "Imram" or some of Tolkien's other short poems, for example.
And Kocher's analysis of Aragorn and his role in the story is masterful--so much so that I wondered if Viggo Mortensen had read this chapter before taking on the role.
Some of the conclusions in this book are so weird and evidently wrong, perhaps due to the early date of the book. Still, some of the author's thoughts and perspectives were quite interesting and I'll most likely use them.
Each of these chapters provides a general body of material before it digs into the analyses, and it’s to Korcher’s benefit that I never got tired of hours writing.Unlike some commentary books, where authors become wrapped up and overly immersed in their criticism and analysis, Kocher keeps his writing approachable.
For this reason alone Korcher’s text is a valuable addition to Lord of the Ring studies.I should note that I gave the book four stars however because the last chapter ends on an analysis of the poems associated with Tolkien’s character Niggle rather than another element of the trilogy.
Although published before The Silmarillion and the materials collected in Unfinished Tales and the History of Middle Earth became available, it is a testament to his excellent critical analysis of major themes and characters in Tolkien's lifetime published work that Paul Kocher's book even now remains one of the best secondary monographs on Tolkien available.
I did enjoy this very much though.I particularly liked the chapter on Aragorn, which presented a way of looking at his character in a way that I've never imagined.
The analysis of his discussion of Narsil/Anduril and his position with Boromir during the council is also well worth reading and will colour my next reading of it (Sadly, I'm already at the end of book 3, about to look into the palantir with Pippin in my current reading).The final chapter, Seven leaves, was very interesting for the simple reason that I've never considered much of Tolkien's other writing in relation to his writings on Middle Earth.
Although first published several years before The Silmarillion, in that vasty deep time when so many of our questions remained unanswered, Master of Middle-earth remains one of my favorite critical studies of Tolkien.
Kocher's chapter-long character study of Aragorn is particularly brilliant:"This is the ambitious, weary, and apprehensive prince who impatiently watches the foolish antics of the hobbits under the suspicious eyes of the crowd at the inn.
To his mind the hobbits badly need taking in hand, as children who are playing games with the fate of Middle-earth....He does not make the mistake of being ingratiating; on the contrary, he starts out with a shock tactic.
An interesting analysis of the mindset of Tolkien in writing the Lord of the Rings.
In particular, Tolkien's views of morality, the freedom of choice and the nature of evil are expressed in his work.
The book explores the Hobbit, the Lord of the Rings, as well as his poetry and shorter tales.
Sauron's evil is seen in his desire that all who come under his domination do his bidding against their wills.
Major chapters are on the Hobbit, Tolkien's view of the cosmic order, Sauron and the nature of evil, the free peoples, and Aragorn.
The book is well worth reading to gain a perspective on Tolkien's writing.
This is very old - it predates the publication of The Silmarillion - but still very well worth reading. Lots of interesting insights, especially on some of Tolkien's shorter works that are not often much talked about.
Great book, if you consider it was written well before Silmarillon or Letters were published. Most of the analyses are great (such the one about Aragorn) but there are some mistakes, usually becouse of the few data avaible in 1973. In 1973 I would have given a full 5 stars
My first introduction to literary criticism, rather young, and a painless one that taught me a great deal about literature in general. I'm rereading it now to shake loose some thoughts about writing fiction.
Execellent collection of essays on the works of JRR Tolkien, first published on the early 1970s. I found the chapter on Aragorn to be the best of the lot, and worth the price of the book.
More readable than the Silmarillion. Well done and informative.
This book had many interesting themes, but overall, it just made me want to read The Lord of the Rings again. The chapter on Aragorn good, painting him as the hero, literally giving up his love and his life for all other races. Parts of the section on the good races made interesting points. The discussion of Leaf, By Niggle was the best of the seven summaries of other works by Tolkien.
Algunas de sus reflexiones son muy interesantes y me ha hecho caer en detalles que me habían pasado desapercibidos cuando leí "El señor de los anillos", pero no puedo decir que me haya entusiasmado.Recomendable para fans de Tolkien.
I've read various Norse and Old English sagas over the years, and when teaching Beowulf, I can casually refer to Professor Tolkien's groundbreaking essay on it, the essay that launched the poem from obscurity into the English canon (all without mentioning that I haven't actually sat down and read the damn thing yet).
He makes an argument for the beginning of the world.
He points out how the character of Aragorn is neglected overall, partly due to bad writing on Tolkien's part, partly due to the hobbit-fixation of the 1960s.
The best part about it for the casual reader: it doesn't even look like literary criticism.
From the title, I'd thought this book would be a biography of J.R.R. Tolkien, so I was little disappointed when I sat down to read it and realized that it was more of a literary analysis of Tolkien's works.Still, after I accepted it for what it was, I found it to be quite an enjoyable book.
Kocher obviously loves and respects Tolkien's work, but not to the point of sounding 'fannish.'The book was published in 1972, so some of Tokien's posthumously published works are not spoken of, but overall, I have to say this book is worthwhile for any Tolkien fan.
Similar in depth to Shippey's Author of the Century, Kocher delves into Tolkien's work and delivers a lot of satisfying insight.
Kocher looks at several topics though, that Shippey does not, including an entire chapter on Aragorn, which I found to be the most intriguing part of the book.
Plus the chapter on Aragorn went a long way in illuminating just how wrongly the Lord of the Rings movies portrayed him.
I highly recommend this for any Tolkien fan and if you aren't much of one, this book will change that.
This book is kind of a collection of essays analyzing Tolkien's writings surrounding the Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit.
It was very interesting to look at a scholars take on these classics of literature.
My favorite section was the one on Aragorn in which he describes in great detail why Aragorn is one of the most key players in the series.
I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to die-hard Lord of the Rings fans.
I will admit that I did not read the last section in which the author describes several of Tolkien's writings that I was not familiar with.
It was written before the Silmarillion so he just made some guess which turned out to be really wrong.
I also think his chapter on Aragorn isn't great.
The chapter is fine, but I think his assertion that Aragorn is the true hero of LotR is off base.
He's a hero, sure, but those books are about Hobbits and have hobbit heroes.
You didn't need the Silmarillion to figure that out and subsequently Tolkien's letters support that.The final chapter, was a strange inclusion to a book about Middle Earth.
It was a hard way to end this book.
Starts off very dry, but gets better in the middle, then dips again with the last chapter--although the reason is not so much in the analysis than the fact that the short works discussed in the last chapter fail to be as interesting to the LOTR fan. What is interesting is that Kocher is writing in 1972, five years prior to the publication of The Silmarillion and has to speculate about a lot of things brought to light in the posthumous epic. Still, a good read.
O John Ronald Reuel … how little did I know, when I fell in love with your Middle Earth long ago, what SACRED FIRE secretly inspired thee …It is an open secret, of course, but all the world - the English-speaking world particularly - wishes to conceal it. Well, after all these years, I discovered your "secret" which I speak of here … http://corjesusacratissimum.org/2012/...
I was surprised at how much I enjoyed this analysis of The Hobbit, Lord of the Rings and other Tolkien stories; it brought to mind a lot of interesting connections and ideas and made me interested in reading the series again sooner than expected. The only bummer is that it was published before The Silmarilion and The Unfinished Tales was published so does not pull those stories in. I would be interested in finding something similar that does. This was a quick and easy read.
Definitely has great parts and some nice insights. Other bits may be a bit moot now since this book was written before the Silmarillion and several other stories were released. (And of course no movies in sight at the time either, which to modern readers may make for uncommon points of focus.) Then again, nice to see things from this perspective too. And a whole chapter on Aragorn, who's after all my favourite Tolkien character (next to Fëanor that is) so I'm not complaining!
Published in 1971, while Tolkien was still alive and long before the release of the many volumes of Tolkien's unfinished writings, so some of it is a bit outdated. Good insights and analysis of some of Tolkien's then-published work.
Expertly written, a great analysis of many of Tolkien's works.
I love reading about Tolkien, and this book has a great chapter on Aragorn, with lots of fabulous insights.
Very good biography
Didn't tell me anything new.
Interesting critique of Tolkiens works. Deals with background and purposes of the author. Also deals with some of the philosophy delt with in the LOTR.
