https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165556.Explorers_on_the_Moon
Completing a story arc begun in the preceding volume, Destination Moon (1953), the narrative tells of the young reporter Tintin, his dog Snowy, and friends Captain Haddock, Professor Calculus, and Thomson and Thompson who are aboard humanity's first manned rocket mission to the Moon.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1973 میلادیعنوان: روی ماه قدم گذاشتیم؛ نویسنده: هرژه؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، یونیورسال، 1352، در 62 ص، موضوع: داستانهای فکاهی از نویسندگان بلژیکی قرن 20 مروی ماه قدم گذاشتیم یا کاشفان روی ماه هفدهمین کتاب از مجموعهٔ کتابهای مصور ماجراهای تن‌ تن و میلو است.

I've decided to try Tintin as a way of exploring more into the world of comics... But why start at No. 17, you ask?Because I saw a doggy spacesuit, and I could not resist.
در ادامه جلد قبلی، تنتن، ناخدا هادوک و کلکولس به ماه سفر میکنند.
در ادامه جلد قبلی، تن‌تن، ناخدا هادوک و کلکولس به ماه سفر می‌کنند.
Wow this was a surprisingly sophisticated science-fiction thriller! I was surprised how science-driven it was, and educational considering the time it was written. Hergé clearly cared about accuracy when writing his story (though his zero-g physics were a little loop). The primary plot was about oxygen supply. There are some really dramatic, character-defining moments for the characters, and the best part-- Calculus has a hearing aid so we actually get him to be a character as opposed to a walking spoonerism gag. Top-notch Tintin.
Tintin reaches the moon20 February 2012 Herge really did his research into this comic, but I suspect that the knowledge regarding space travel at this time had powered ahead. I believe that the Russians had already launched objects into space, however despite that it is very clear from this comic that Herge knew what he was talking about. The reason I say this is because of a number of events in the book: the effect of G-forces when the rocket enters and leaves the Earth; the knowledge that grav
Tintin reaches the moon20 February 2012	Herge really did his research into this comic, but I suspect that the knowledge regarding space travel at this time had powered ahead.
Okay, the other doubles were also continuations, however in the previous ones the adventure would take a decidedly new twist, whereas in this one we are always looking towards the Moon and Tintin's ultimate arrival.
The books in the series just really seemed to stand out on the shelf in my public library so I decided to look through them and read the one with the coolest cover.
I think that it might have been two or three years later but at some time, I was in a bookstore in India and I just happened to see an English translation of the book.
When I first read the book, Captain Haddock was my favorite character because of the colorful language he used.
I think he's still my favorite character in the series.
The thing about the TINTIN series is that you don't need to read the books in order.
In all seriousness though I do believe that Tintin is the perfect example of a book all children should have the opportunity to read.
I read many books in my childhood (many of them trashy unforgettable child stories that I look back and laugh at) and there are too many to properly get nostalgic (there are many books I still forget I've read until I stumble over them.
But what I loved and remember reading was books like Tintin.
Some books may pass from your memory but others remain in your heart and the characters grow on with you throughout the years and that is what the Tintin books remain for me.
نه صدایی ، نه ابری،درآسمان سیاه و تیره،هزارها ستاره بچشم می خوره .......اما چه ستاره هائی،مرده بی حرکت،یخ زده، بدون اون همه درخشندگی و نوریکه از زمین اونها را میبینیمحالا از پله هایی که در طول بدنه سفینهقرار گرفته پایین میرم...کنترل اسپروز:چند پله ای پیشتر نمونده...
دو پله دیگه ...
دو پله دیگه ...
پله آخری ...تمام شد !تن تن :حالا روی ماه هستم !چند قدمی همراه رفتم ...
بدون شک در تاریخ بشریتبرای اولین بار انسان"روی ماه قدم گذاشت ..."حالا دیگه تنها نیستماین هم کاپیتان که داره میاد بمن ملحق بشه...کاپیتان هادوک:روی ماه!جدا مسخره است !روی ماه گردش میکنیم!راه میرم...میدوم...میپرم...؟؟
"Destination Moon" & "Explorers on the Moon" these duo are first science fictions in the Tintin series. Originally published in 1953-54, long before any mission to the moon, Herge has been able to provide convincing and accurate scientific details in most parts. The beautiful illustrations of the moon, earth and space travel are so realistic in terms of surface texture and contrast. I loved the illustrations of night sky, shades of darkness, pale blue earth from the space and the glowing moon with its craters. O:)
This was one of my favorite episodes of the series!!It has a lot of dramatic twists in the plot!! If any one wud like to make a film - I would suggest this and its prequel for filming!!There is a scope for few scientific facts and children can grasp easier than learning in a class!! I appreciate the author for providing space for those also in this part!!
Very good! This second part of Tintin's adventure on the Moon is hilarious with the proverbial Captain Haddock always grumbling about one thing or another and Tournesol still quite to the point as a scientist... In fact, for the first in these two books he is listening to what people tell him, he is using an ear device!Maria Carmo,Lisbon 18 January 2015.
I thought this was one kind of a chore actually.
Another great Tintin book, exciting and often suspenseful :-) And the rocket and method of space travel were very detailed.
#57 for 2018Genre: Adventure Comic
لذتی که تو کمیک های هیجان انگیز تن تن هست توی هیچ چیزی نیست به نظرم ولی این یکی خیلییی دوز ماجرا جویی هاش کم بود واسم و اونجوري که باید و شاید بهم نچسبید. شاید هم من تو مود نبودم. نميدونم والا:((
هر دو كتاب سفر به كره ماه و گشت و گذار در ماه رو پشت سر هم خوندم و دو تا از بهترين هاى تن تن بودن قطعاً.
*reread*One of the best comic series! Had to read this again, it's my favorite out of all of them.
I had only one TinTin book as a kid. It was this. :)
Favourite moment: Tintin letting Haddock have it when he gets drunk on stowaway whisky and endangers the mission to the moon by leaving the spaceship to "go home to Marlinspike" - and almost becoming a satellite of the Adonis asteroid.
Tintin rarely gets angry, so that was a surprise upon rereading.
Amazing visuals in this one, the starkness of the moonscape, the vast inky blackness stretching between earth and the moon, and the fun effect of less gravity.
I remember reading the ending as a kid with my heart in my mouth wondering if they'd arrive back on earth alive or dead, due to the ratio of oxygen to the (unexpected) number of people aboard.
Fun times.
What a lovely treat to receive this as a Birthday gift!Tintin and friends are on their way to the moon, years ahead of Neil Armstrong in an iconic red spaceship.
The scrapes and japes are a'plenty and the artwork is wonderful...the small details of the originals clearly showing through from the animated Tintin that I have previously enjoyed.
I won't go into the plot, but will say that I shall enjoy reading many more!
So many versions of this book, so just for the record I read the 1965 reprint of the 1959 translation by Turner & Lonsdale-Cooper, published by Methuen
lunacy
Avaruusseikkailu 1954 a la Hergé. Kyllähän tämä on yksi parhaista Tintti-tarinoista!
It was ok, I'm not really the audience, but I'm reading it to my son (with a bit of censorship, because, you know, bad guys get hurt but in our version they just sleep and get bruises). We're reading it because of rockets!On the adult side - you have to admire anything that comes from the 50s (in this case) and can still be interesting. I'm yet deciding whether the panels feel too crowded and if it could have been done with less text. It's "old school" work, and I respect it for it.
Told in a breathless cliffhanger style, with constant uproarious slapstick (every fifth frame shows someone seeing stars), it does in truth find the series resting on its laurels (one cannot think of a more improbable crew for an expedition to the moon than series mainstays Captain Haddock, Professor Calculus and stow-away detectives Thompson and Thomson.
Absent-minded professor Cuthbert Calculus is in a rare competent form, thanks in part to a new hearing aid, yet is amusingly high-strung due to the pressures of the expedition.The story is of course dated, but Herge's wry, austere drawings truly come alive in their depiction of the moon and the majesty of space.
The beginnings of these stories have been around as long as the Lord of the Rings, the illustration and environments in the Tintin books are accurate and extremely detailed.
Anyone who has spent even a little time exploring Herge (Georges Remi) can see the painstaking research and adversity he worked through to compose the world around Tintin.
His ideas were ahead of his time (Exploring the moon, Industrialization, South American political conflict, modern slave trade, extraterrestrial life) and he made certain every detail for every object would be realistic (after the third book at least).
Herge's work can certainly be cited as an influence for any modern day graphic novel or comic book.
Ce tome est aussi bon que Objectif Lune. Si le premier était très comique, celui-ci est plus en suspense. Il doivent faire face à Jorgen qui veut voler la fusée et ils doivent faire face au manque d'oxygène. Le côté comique est toujours là avec Haddock et les Dupondt. Comme je le disait pour Objectif Lune, Hergé a vraiment été visionnaire lorsqu'il a fait ces deux aventures de Tintin. Plusieurs faits de cet album se sont avérés vrais lorsque les USA sont eux-même allés sur la lune en 1969, 15 ans après le récit d'Hergé.
Not my favorite Tintin book, but, as always with Herge's comics, it's amazing - funny and adventurous. The idea of being stuck in space scares me, which is probably why I didn't enjoy it so much. ;)~Kellyn Roth, Reveries Reviews
Yine çok heyecanlı bir bölümdü. Tenten'in ne yapıp ne edip bir çözüm yolu bulması da çok keyifli :)
But Hereg's reason for using transparent astronauts was that the faces of the characters in the story could be seen in all frames.At the time of writing this two-part story, a strange thing happened to Herge.
When on September 7, 1950, the first part of the story was completed, Herge suffered from depression and felt that he needed to rest.
On April 18, 1951, Herge published a letter in the Tennett Magazine explaining that he was ill due to fatigue of too much work, and finally, after 18 months of interruption, the story was continued in the Tintin Magazine.
