https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/688770.The_Ill_Made_Knight
In this the third book of the greater The Once and Future King epic, the story turns solidly to Lancelot.
And the Ill-Made Knight digresses to capture these stories.
The middle of the book pivots as Camelot, under Arthur's leadership, undergoes a change from physical quests (Round Table v.
Might makes Right) to spiritual ones (Round Table > Grail quest).
This change captures/mirrors the dynamic of Lancelot's own story (the vacillation between the physical and spiritual).
T.H. White doesn't make me feel as sympathetic and tender toward Lancelot as Steinbeck does, though there are some similarities in the two treatments.
knowing from research how closely the portrayals of Morgan/Morgause and Guinevere are linked, and knowing how Morgause is portrayed in the earlier books, it shades T.H. White's portrayal uglier.He does very well at exploring Lancelot's character, though I miss the insights into Arthur's character that the first book promised.
And I can't get on with White's version of Gawain.Anyway, this isn't very useful for my dissertation, but I thought I'd revisit it anyway in case something thematic popped up.
The Ill Made Knight covers the story of Lancelot from his beginnings to near the end of the time in Camelot, and chronicles his love for Guinevere and Elaine's love for him, and his struggles in the quest for the grail.
I was quite amused by the references back to Malory, and found myself rather wanting to revisiting that book (in the original, of course: not an abridgement or a retelling).T.H. White has a certain amount of tenderness for and an understanding of his characters that makes their stupidities endearing and understandable, but even he couldn't make me stop wanting to shake all three of them.
I always feel some disappointment about that.
Mostly it seems to be more a commentary of the tradition (especially Malory) rather than a narrative at all.
This potential, moreover, seems to be based not entirely on Malory or some other writer but the characters as if they were actually historical humans.
Thus the book is really a meditation of what Lancelot, Guenever, Arthur, and the rest of the knights may have been like in a space between history, the tradition, and White's own created works.
The book really comes through in the middle with the quest for the Grail; here White is able to balance all his modes and create a very awesome narrative.
Lancelot trains from a very young age to become one of Arthur’s knights after he begins to hero worship Arthur after a meeting where he’s decided he already loves the King and he will be everything the king wants him to be.
It’s here where the book explains that Lancelot can’t care about things unless he’s done some grievance.
I also hated the way that White wrote Guinevere and just women in particular, straddling them with unnecessary pettiness, blaming them for their “downfalls,” which surely was their own fault and worthy of the extreme violence bestowed on them.The only thing I really liked about this was the obvious conflict in all parties involved in the love triangle.
I generally read books a lot faster than I did this one.
As with the previous books in the series, it seems that T.H. White has so many thoughts and details that he wants to include in this book, however he just doesn't include them all.
I didn't entirely hate it, but it just didn't contain the components other books generally have held for me in the past, to make me want to sit down and keep reading to find out what happens next.
This rather sad retelling of the story of Sir Lancelot focused on the warrior's obsession with his own ugliness and inadequacy.
This is the first book in this saga that feels like a proper story.
It's the first book that feels like a well-constructed story in its own right, as well as part of the saga of Arthur.I'm familiar with the story of Arthur, and Lancelot and Guinevere, but this is my first real insight into their characters.
I think that's what makes this the strongest volume of his retelling of the Arthur myth so far.Again, he feels more like he's supplementing Malory, but that's less of an issue this time around, where he's actually telling a more detailed story.
Actual Rating 4.5Here is the thing, Elain deserved so much more, Guenivere is actual trash, Lancelot is a waffely little bafoon, and Arthur is a spoiled 30 year old...and I frickin' live for the drama these idiots create. This is one of my absolute favorite love triangles of all time and T.H. White just wrote it all so matter-of-fact which just adds to the craziness of what is actually going down. I am trash for this book in the series and I will always be trash for it. The end.
What I don’t like is how three of the Orkney children become Arthur’s knights after claiming in the last book that they’ll take revenge for what happened to their grandmother on Arthur all without any explanation.
I didn’t understand 90% of Gawaine’s story in weird English (If it was English.).And the way Lionel ends his story when he says that all of the sudden God came and something happens and the sun burns their shields and they start laughing and patch things up just like that; out of nowhere.
Live a little, Lancecomplete the love triangle try for a threesome.
It is hard, especially reading each book so close to one another, to picture Arthur as a king after such a long time in his childhood in Sword in the Stone.
The bits that were interesting is where the three stars come from, it was a good story and as I say, very well planned out and detailed.
But I mean if you are interested in the legend all the intricate details, research and stories would interest you, and it is a good read to learn more, but be warned it does get drawn out.
I find Lancelot to be an incredibly compelling character, much more likable, in fact, than King Arthur himself.
I'm torn on this, but for now I'll say that I think you could read just this book and, with very minimal knowledge of the King Arthur mythology, you could enjoy Lancelot's story without reading the other parts of "The Once and Future King." I wouldn't necessarily recommend that, but I think it is noteworthy that Lancelot's story is told so well that just this section is a satisfying read in and of itself.
He was Arthur’s best friend and as soon as he found out that he loves Guenever, Arthur’s wife, he went on a quest trying to escape from this feeling, but after a lot of escapes he still can’t escape from his own feeling, and so does Guenever.
Also, there’s this triangle between Arthur, Guenever and Lancelot.Arthur loved Lancelot as his best friend and so does Lancelot and they love the same woman, Guenever.
Lancelot doesn’t want to do anything to hurt Arthur but he did anyway, and he felt awful and sorry.
Of course he felt that God was much better than Guenever or Arthur, but the point was that he was personal.
Lancelot had a definite idea of what he looked like, and how he felt; and he was somehow in love with this Person.
It was as if he had been confronted with a choice between Jane and Janet; and as if he had gone to Janet, not because he was afraid that she would punish him if he stayed with Jane, but because he felt, with warmth and pity, that he loved her best.
While knights and dragons and magic are more my thing, this book is really about a love triangle, which is not my normal cup of tea.However, I can become engrossed in any story as long as I like the characters.
I have to write a little something about the three main characters.Lancelot - You'd think I wouldn't be able to like a guy who sleeps with his best friend's wife.
I also like that he has so much love for Guinevere and Lancelot that he almost chooses to remain naive.
I disliked her so much, that it made me not like Lancelot quite as much, because how could he be in love with her?
I never really liked the romance of Lancelot and Guinevere.
One reason is, I know in the earliest legend there was no character as Lancelot [and Guinevere's adulterous affair was with Gawaine, Arthur's nephew and Arthur fathered a son, Mordred with Queen Morgause rather than Morgan Le Fay].
Personally, I never saw any romance in the love triangle of Arthur, Lancelot and Guinevere.
In "The Ill-Made Knight" Lancelot is a man full of self-loathing, sandwiched between his love for Arthur, his idol (the man saw beyond his ugliness) and his love for the only woman who paid him attention.
In my response to The Queen of Air and Darkness, the previous part of The Once and Future King, I argued that that book’s weaknesses stemmed from the fact that it was largely a tool to set up a subsequent volume. I hoped, then, that the effort would be worth it. It was. Ill-Made Knight has its imperfections, but it remains some of the most touching prose I’ve encountered. This chapter in Arthurian legend switches focus away from the King, to look at his friend and captain, Lancelot. The reader w
In my response to The Queen of Air and Darkness, the previous part of The Once and Future King, I argued that that book’s weaknesses stemmed from the fact that it was largely a tool to set up a subsequent volume.
This chapter in Arthurian legend switches focus away from the King, to look at his friend and captain, Lancelot.
The reader watches Lancelot react to his first encounter with Arthur, we see him grow, go to court, and deal with the trials of being the greatest knight in the world while dealing with his forbidden love.
The Ill-Made Knight's my least favorite installment in The Once and Future King series thus far.
His psychological profiles of Lancelot, Guenever, and Arthur are helpful, I guess.
It's all Shakespearean romantic tragedy in The Ill-Made Knight.
That'd be all fine and dandy if book three didn't read like a speed bump in the narrative's flow.Prepare to be frustrated by the clumsy antics of Lancelot and Guenever.
White mutes all heroicism, chivalry and goodness in his version of the Arthurian legend.
With heroism and goodness either missing or compromised throughout, White offers readers little more than a series of his own astute psychological journal entries.
Then there is the love affair between Lancelot and Arthur's wife Geneviere (Jenny), which for me was also very true to life and tender.
Still, I found many quotes in the book worth remembering.
And, other than some reviewers here say, in my opinion White drew the picture of a real woman in Jenny.
Some passages felt a little hurried though and left me with the impression that White just wanted to get on with the story and couldn't be bothered telling it in detail.
It makes me happy that he managed to find a positive finale in his books.
More puzzling still is that White will allude to the wound within him and comment on its impact on his adulthood, but then he makes no attempt to really explore it.
The author's tendency to move from probing, and even uncomfortable, examination of his characters' innermost thoughts to suddenly looking from 30,000 feet and zooming over decades at a time is disconcerting.Nevertheless, this book deserves its reputation as a classic.
The conflicts it explores with and without its characters are timeless, and White makes this point even without Merlin's time-traveling perspective to describe events in Arthur's time with analogies familiar to the 20th and 21st century reader.
The Ill-Made Knight is a story primarily concerned with Lancelot.
Lancelot believes he is "ill-made" because of he is described as ape-like and ugly, with ears that stick out straight from his head.
Instead, we find Lancelot is obsessed with being pure, a true Athurian knight, who seeks God, but despite the attempt to achieve perfection, Lancelot proves most fallible, again and again.
Lancelot's search for true chivalry is set against the desire of most men to fight and kill, a desire for a time "when men could be men".
Lancelot's story fills in between the lines of what living under Arthur's reign could have been, and his complexity brought the legend to life.
Retro-Hugo Award Finalist (1940)This is the story of Sir Lancelot, the best of Arthur's knights. The overreaching theme is Lancelot's love for Guenever, but the book itself is a series of episodes that are only loosely connected. White writes with a sense of humor and doesn't get bogged down with too many details. If you're only familiar with modern adaptations of the Arthurian legend, you owe it to yourself to read this definitive version.
Poor Guenever. An author must someday do her some justice. She exists here solely as a temptress and hotheaded bitch, which is unfair. Lancelot receives better treatment by far, as a flawed human who we love regardless.
His dedication and the willingness to serve God and Arthur grows throughout the book and we all can see that it's very passionate.
The women like Elaine and Guinevere also play a central, major, melodramatic, emotional and a strong central role.
The chemistry between Lancelot and Guinevere is truly beautiful, it personifies and emphasizes love, want,desires, aspirations and a lot of other things like hatred, jealousy, sin, realization,etc.
What I don't like about the book is the description and detailed emotional plot, lack of action (even though we see many fights), lack of a straight plot, no clear conclusion" objective, use of unclear and difficult language, hard o understand.
I especially took delight in Arthur’s continued conversion where he begins to discard might in favour of a Spiritual Quest for the sake of God that might begin to transform the royal court and the very round table itself.
It’s a book that continues to touch on the deepest themes that touch our lives that I believe every human being ought to take the time to invest themselves in wholeheartedly, for there lies the salvation our hearts have always knowingly longed for; a sacred desire unbeknownst to masses of individuals too busy to stop and feel that which has always moved them to greatness through goodness.
看完了懷特版亞瑟王傳說系列的第三部小說《殘缺騎士（The Ill-Made Knight）》。整體上說來，這段故事與前兩冊不同，主題相當「灰暗」。而我個人特別偏愛這種寫作的基調。　本書的「主角」，被代換成那位有名的「蘭斯洛（Lancelot）」，亞瑟王不過是個戴綠帽的配角。《殘缺騎士》從頭到尾，都在描寫蘭斯洛的奇遇冒險，以及他心中對於關妮薇王后的愛情、對於亞瑟王的尊敬、對於上帝的虔誠、對於情婦伊蓮與私生子的責任，在種種情緒的交錯痛苦掙扎之下，如何度過他由少年直到中年這漫長的二十多年的時光。　以前就想過，如果故事的主角從頭到尾都沒什麼「改變」，那麼那則長篇故事，只能以觸動讀者的「崇拜」、而無法讓讀者「代入」。前不久看的甄子丹版的電影《葉問》，三集的主角，大概屬於這一範疇︰故事一開始的主角是道德完人，故事結束時的主角仍是道德完人。在我的年少時代，也愛看這種故事。但隨著自己步入中年之後，卻逐漸開始更加欣賞「主角會改變」的故事主旨，無論是由「好變壞」或「由壞變好」，主角在開始與結束，是兩種不同形象的人了。　因此這部《殘缺騎士》中，主角蘭斯洛的心境，從頭到尾都在不斷地改換；而反應在現實上，他又不斷地打破他的原則。他不想背叛亞瑟王，最後還是背叛了；他不想與王后維持那場畸戀，最後還是耦合；他向情婦伊蓮承諾將陪伴他們母子，最後還是離開了；他在追尋聖杯過程中感受到了神的恩典，最後還是屈服在塵間的欲望。這種主題若寫得不好，讀者只會覺得主角是個人渣。但這篇故事裡，作者很用力地刻劃了主角的心境轉變、以及他因此而受到的內心煎熬，使得讀者更有將讀書時的感情「代入」依據。　不過我比較覺得奇怪的，是作者在書中不斷強調中古原版傳說——比如他直接說他要略過亞瑟帶兵攻打羅馬的這一段，並在自己的書中還提醒大家，關於這段事蹟要「去看馬洛禮的書」——彷彿他這套書只是正版書的一個通俗注本一樣。難道作者不想要「獨立」嗎（笑）？
After the silliness of The Sword in the Stone, this really expands on the idea that King Arthur's tragedy was that he tried to use force majeure to end the rule of force majeure, and he tried other things which sounded promising, too, but (minor spoiler) he never did find the way.It's beautiful, simple, lambent prose ("Guinevere was neither good nor bad, neither entirely loyal nor disloyal...
she was a real person").
I also love poor Arthur - only an ordinary person really, cursed by destiny and Merlyn to wrestle with insoluble problems and human nature.
The spin on Lancelot as ugly God obsessed knight, Gwenivere as ageing woman past her prime and in love with an ideal and a man, Elaine as dumpy try hard and Arthur as the man and King who sees it all but does nothing because of his own ideals is interesting, but the novel is too long with too many asides.
The most interesting moments for me were the ones which dealt with Arthur's realisation of the failings of his Round Table because without Might, what fills the gap?
It's an interesting philosophical quandary and will clearly rear its head in Book 4.
This book was just like the movie we watched in class about Lancelot and Arthur. In this book there's a love triangle between them both and arthur's wife, Guenever. Lancelot is in love with the king's wife and they both betray Arthur. I personally thought the book was boring at first but just like Harry Potter it gets better if you keep reading.
