https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403277.The_Land_That_Time_Forgot_Collection
The tale:Set in the early stages of World War One, The Great War, where German U-boats terrorize the seas our hero Bowen Tyler, who happens to be a ship-builder's son and an expert in avionics, gets his transport torpedoed out from under him while on his way to join the war effort as part of an Ambulance Corps.
There are parts of "The Lost World" By Doyle, similar "love stories" as found in Jack London's "Star Rover" and, even simalarities to his first Novel-series Barsoom (Mars).
and what wonderfully fun dreams they were.These stories are full of adventure, and excitement, love and treachery, courage and cowardice.
Timeless!
He saves a beautiful drowning young woman who he immediately falls in love with (that’s always how it happens in these stories) and they end up on a submarine with several other Englishmen and several Germans.
For example, the beautiful young woman who the protagonist falls in love with has almost no personality, yet Bowen knows immediately that he loves her and, as expected, he is called on to bravely save her life more than once (while her previously modest clothing is now in tatters).
Though this rating is low compared to what I normally like to read or listen to, The Land That Time Forgot and its two sister novels are part of a dying genre of books that largely fascinate me to no end, and honestly to me mimics the sad truth of a dying interest in the mysteries of our planet and nearby solar system.
The three stories trace the adventures of three typical Burroughs heroes (two Americans and an Englishman, all three wondrously brave man's men who get tongue-tied around pretty women) in the land of Caspak, a Lost World teeming with primordial life.It is Burroughs, so you do have to turn off your 21st-century sensibilities to some extent.
That accomplished, however, you can proceed to enjoy a rollicking good set of adventure yarns done in typical Burroughs style, with a series of cliffhangers and narrow escapes.
I recommend the books to those who are fond of this style of adventure novel.
In "Land", the discovered manuscript immediately throws the reader into the middle of a WWI sea skirmish between an American passenger cruise and a German U-Boat.
But Burroughs loves giving us heroines that never quite fit the picture of the fainting damsel, Lys La Rue instead holding her own in the numerous skirmishes in the novel.
Quickly, we're thrust into a hidden world that exists on a large island in the middle of the ocean, where dinosaurs and other terrifying beasts roam alongside human-like beings that show an array of evolution from ape to man.
The novel is action packed, entertaining, and a quick read.
As always, Burroughs likes a good love story.
It was a good time to be a fan.The story is pretty typical Burroughs fare.
I suppose we don't really need to worry though, IIRC the people of Barsoom lay eggs and still Dejah Thoris and John Carter managed to have children.As is usually the case for a Burroughs tale, the clueless guys take forever to realize that they've fallen in love, but it all works out in the end.
Burroughs knew a winning formula for an adventure story, and he used it frequently.
so I'll do a second review of the compiled set.The first book in the series, "Land that Time Forgot", grew on me as I read the other two in the series - they all tie together with different characters in overlapping frames in the timeline, and stuff from the first book pays off handsomely in the third, "Out of Time's Abyss", which is quite good.
Anything like a scientist.I do have to point out that the hero of the second book, The People That Time Forgot, while a classic pulp hero and capable adventurer, is a world class doofus.

This is actually the narrative of Bowen J.
Tyler and his adventures and mis-adventures in the strange land of Caprona.
It starts with Tyler, an American being a passenger on a ship in the English Channel, this is during World War I and unfortunately the ship is torpedoed by a German submarine called U-33.
After the ship is sunk Tyler and one other passenger Lys La Rue are rescued by a British tug boat.....
alot occurs here, the tug boat is sunk, the crew captures the sub, the sub is overcome by a strange current, and then they come upon Caprona.....
Three different stories bound together by same mystic land of strange human races and many action packed quests. For me first thing what came to mind was that it is like Jules Verne writing Ringworld novel :P and Burroughs likes the idea of human hatching :).
3 1/2 The People that Time Forgot was the best of them, and the last page of Out Of Time's Abyss was also great.
But the entire time I read the book I kept seeing Plastic Dinosaurs.
Maybe because my copy has pictures from the movie that look super fake?
Anyway, in this case I can definitely say nostalgia didn't prove true and the cover was better that the book it's self.
On a whole not bad, but not Tarzan great either.
PG Some killing of beasts and people, the violence was on a whole mild.
The last book had more than the others.
The Caspak books, now those bring back some memories. Caspak is a lost world. Our hero has stumbled onto it (I think by submarine). The concept is that the further the hero travels in a certain direction the more or less evolved all of the creatures are. The action is a fight for survival as the hero encounters dinosaurs and cavemen.This is everything a growing boy needed in the 1970s, possibly for current generations as well. I don't know. My son liked them.
All the characters get out of all the scrapes just in the nick of time, and they sail away after coincidentally finding everything they need.
Perhaps Burroughs was groundbreaking in his writing style, but I still feel a little gypped after all the time I spent reading this book.
(It's like the old Star Treks where you know all the meaningless guys dressed in red will die, but your main lovable heroes manage to stay alive and look good doing it.
Funny and lovable for a time, but it's only the foundation for something greater.
I like the way that it is narrated, there is no dramatic irony, you learn things about the land at the same time as the narrator, Bowen, does.
This was nice, it encouraged curiosity and wonder and a feeling of camaraderie with Bowen.
I like the strange worldview of the people who live there (a strange concept of the stages of life and evolution) and I'm sure that this will be developed in the following books?
I feel like there's so much to be developed - But I suppose that with first person narration we cannot know any more than our protagonist, and he doesn't know much.
A second or third-grader would love this - there's non-stop action, and not much thought behind the world Burroughs created here, except as was driven by the thought "What would a second or third grader find exciting!?"Make no mistake, I love me some prehistoric life, and I don't mind the cold-blooded lizardy version of dinosaurs that ruled thought at the time Burroughs wrote, but there's like 25 big dinos per acre!
Oh, well.Thanks for Tarzan and John Carter of Mars, Edgar.
You can keep Caspak.
"There were all sorts and conditions of horrible things; huge, hideous, grotesque monsters...I had perhaps the fraction of a second longer to live when I heard an angry growl behind us mingle with a cry of pain and rage from the giant..." Classic pulp fiction! What Land of the Lost aspired to be! Hilariously fun!!! Like an action-adventure popcorn movie! Mine is the 1924 Grosset & Dunlap edition, stained and worn with the cover half falling off; not the Commemorative Edition shown here. Ther
"There were all sorts and conditions of horrible things; huge, hideous, grotesque monsters...I had perhaps the fraction of a second longer to live when I heard an angry growl behind us mingle with a cry of pain and rage from the giant..." Classic pulp fiction!
What Land of the Lost aspired to be!
Hilariously fun!!!
Like an action-adventure popcorn movie!
Mine is the 1924 Grosset & Dunlap edition, stained and worn with the cover half falling off; not the Commemorative Edition shown here.
There's something pleasing about reading a really old book; the feel and smell of the old pages, different for every one, adds something to the experience.
This is THE book
Some of my fondest memories as a youth are those I spent reading Edgar Rice Burroughs. This was the first book of his I read. I think I went on to read his entire collection.
This is a wonderful story. i finally got round to reading it and it is certainly much better than the Doug McLure movie from the '70s. Talk about high action and excellent writing.
Thank you and please continue on.“The Land That Time Forgot” (LTF)	“LTF” begins the series, kicking off with a fascinating series of events involving its first main character, Bowen Tyler and his dog, Nobs, as they encounter German u-bombs and rival ships in the Great War. The two must battle for survival in the water, mutiny on the ship, and deception.
I think the most interesting aspects of PTF is not the rescue story, but the learning of the Luata / Wieroo religion, the language, and the evolutionary patterns of the ape-men on the island.
Because part of me is perpetually ten years old, I will always be a sucker for "Lost World" type novels, all those stories of people winding up on remote islands or lost continents or hidden sections of the Arctic and finding a land full of extinct creatures, especially dinosaurs, who make everything better simply by being large and scaly and awesome in a way that mythological creatures so rarely are.For me, the better examples of this sub-genre of pseudo-science adventure are the ones written in the early days of the last century (or the waning days of the century before) simply because in a world that hadn't been fully explored it seemed quite plausible that one day we would come across a previously unknown continent teeming with life no one had ever imagined.
“You are here for but an instant, and you mustn't take yourself too seriously”
The Caspak trilogy is a wonderful work by Edgar Rice Burroughs comprised of three short novels, all set on an unforgettable island called Caprona, also known as Caspak.
Having a new character take the lead helps to bring back some of the surprise and suspense of visiting the island of Caprona, which would probably have been lost if Burroughs had merely continued telling the tale from Bowen Tyler’s perspective.This story deals more with the various tribes of Caspak that Tom Billings encounters in his search for Tyler, as well as with the quite frankly outré form of evolution that takes place on the island.
I normally wouldn't give a book this racist a passing grade; but I realize that Burroughs was a product of his times, and I'm willing to cut him a little slack.
Yet, there is an element of fun to be had here, especially if you treat it like an old-fashioned YA novel and grant it the same kind of leeway as you would, say, a PERCY JACKSON adventure.Interestingly, it took people in the first Caspak story half the book just to reach the dinosaur-infested island, but the characters in this sequel accomplish the same feat within the first chapter--meaning a stronger focus on fighting prehistoric creatures and making out with voluptuous cavewomen.
Unfortunately, the need for a series trumped finishing the story of humans or of our heroes and so one is left stranded as the book ends.David Stifel is going to read the sequel next but I don't care enough to stay with it.I should mention that the book suffered in comparison to Arthur Conan Doyle's "Land Before Time" which BJ Harrison read fairly recently on The Classic Tales podcast.

The Land that Time Forgot: I really enjoyed this book.
It was surreal and yet told in such a way that I was able to suspend my disbelief.
Although in the beginning there were a few difficult moments where it just seemed like the character had the worst luck in history.
He had a wonderful voice and presence and was able to bring the other characters and the scenery to life.
I loved the different ape men and am very curious to see the secrets of Caprona in the next book.
The People that Time Forgot: Just started, love it so far.
I downloaded this book onto my iPhone via the iBooks app (because there is a boatload of stuff that is free on there, and that's my favorite price). Anyway. GREAT book, incredible story, and very fast/enthralling.I hadn't realized what a compelling writer Burroughs was; I found this book in my favorite way (which is to just have one sorta 'fall' on you). I opened it and could not put it down. Scenario takes place in the ocean, mid-WWI activity. Without divulging too much of the story, group of folks gets shipwrecked on an island 'time forgot.' Very good book.
Absolutely loved this book. Although the characters struggle to become two dimensional, the pacing, action and ideas drive this book and make it hard to put down.One thing I found slightly offputting was the 1920s racism that ran through the book. I had to remind myself that it was written at a different time.Other than that, it holds by well for being 90 years old.
