https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/570641.A_Bullet_for_Cinderella
It's a classic Fawcett/Gold Medal novel in which the protagonist starts out with an apparently reasonable objective but soon finds himself in over his head and in danger of losing his life in some very unpleasant way.In this case, the protagonist is a man named Tal Howard, who had the misfortune first of going off to war and then of being captured and sent to a prisoner of war camp.
The camp, of course, was a horrible experience and while there, Tal became friends with another prisoner named Timmy Warden who came from a small town named Hillston.
Judging by the cover of this edition, it retailed for 25 cents in 1955 when it was published. That would have been a quarter well spent because this little pulp noir was quite entertaining. Well written, good characters, good plot; everything fit together perfectly.
I was leaning to 4 stars, but the suspenseful ending was just the type I'm a sucker for, so I gave A BULLET FOR CINDERELLA 5 stars.
JDM does a nifty job of setting up the romance triangle, including the dark-haired femme fatale.
A BULLET FOR CINDERELLA was published in 1955, so the level of violence and sex isn't raw or visceral like today's noir can be.
I see other the readers and critics (including the reviews when BULLET was published) have given it lower marks.
That was all I ever wanted from BULLET.
The soldier, Timmy, tells our hero about this when he is close to death, but all he says before he actually dies is that Cindy would know where the money is buried.So Tal arrives in Timmy's hometown with an agenda, and at this point I was thinking 'what a creep.' But events and other people affect the plan in various ways, and I can't say much more than that without ruining any enjoyment future readers would have with the book.
I will say this: I was impressed with the way Tal grew up during the story; I enjoyed the heck out of the first conversation between Tal and Cindy when he found her, and the ending was hold-your-breath, stay-up-late-to-finish-the-book perfection.
Love loved this. One off (non series) crime pulp from 1955. Tight, suspenseful, with a terrific plot.
Timmy and Tal became close friends in the camp, and Timmy told the story of his life.
When Timmy was on his death bed, he called Tal close and, with his dying breath said, “Cindy would know,” referring to where he had hidden the money.
When Tal finally got released, he wasted a few years doing different jobs, but ultimately decided that he would travel to Timmy’s home town and start a search for the money.
A surprise clue is discovered from Timmy’s past that helps find the right girl, but Tal now had to deal with Fitzmartin, who was becoming more mad with each passing day.
Hadn't read this one in a long, long time but quickly realized this had been one of my favorites growing up.
Started reading this one about 9pm and didn't put it down until I finished it.
You have a burnt-out Korean war vet who nearly died in a North Korean prison camp and who's lost all meaning in his life.
Except to head back to the home town of a friend who died in the prison camp and try to find the $60,000 the guy had stolen and hid.
Only to find that another ex-POW, sub-species psychopath, has the same idea and a head start.
Interestingly, the premise for Cinderella is the same as that for the first Travis McGee novel, The Deep Blue Good-by.
Both involve a small fortune buried by a soldier before heading off to the Korean War and a POW camp where he dies.
Both involve a former POW who comes looking for the treasure.The plots, however, diverge at that point.
In The Deep Blue Good-by, the fortune hunter is most definitely the bad guy.A Bullet for Cinderella is an excellent example of MacDonald's earlier work, and a must read for fans of Travis McGee
Don't miss it.All the things MacDonald is known for are here: a fast-moving and skillfully executed plot, memorable characters, a detailed sense of place, and as always, a dose of acute social commentary about the ills of society.
If you've only the read Travis McGee novels, you're missing a big part of MacDonald's legacy.
His earlier work is every bit as good--maybe even better, because he wasn't constrained by the reader expectations of a series.Looking at the original cover of the paperback (pictured above), I'm amused.
The tawdry cover and the price--25 cents!--imply that this is not going to be great literature.
The reader will be pleasantly surprised.
This is an earlier novel for MacDonald, written almost 10 years before he began the Travis McGee series of novels. It is a well written, if not quite stand out, noir novel. MacDonald's prose is artlessly taut and draped with menace. However, the plot holds no surprises for the modern reader. MacDonald fans and completists will want to catch this one, but casual fans should select another Travis McGee novel instead.
I've never been as big a fan of John D. MacDonald as the rest of the world seems to be. This one is really a pretty simple noir type story about a former POW in Korea, who comes to the town of his friend to find $60,000. A fellow former inmate is there, too looking for the money. It's not bad, but really nothing special. That might make me a heretic, but I've been one before.
A Bullet for CinderellaThis was my first John D Macdonald and I must say I'm impressed. It won't be my last. I gave it 5 stars.
This one is a stand alone whose protagonist, upon being released from a Korean POW camp returns to a small town to find $60,000 a fellow prisoner had embezzled from his brother.
Upon his arrival in town to search for her, he discovers that another POW who had heard of the money being hidden somewhere had arrived earlier.
Naturally, in the mold of many of MacDonald's villains, this is an evil psychopath who won't mind taking out a few folks, including Hal, in his search for the money.
The Noir writing style of authorJohn D. MacDonald, is very enjoyable.Interesting mystery, that held my attention.Narrator Winston Tharp,did an ok job for me.Clean story.
Classic Macdonald pulp noir - totally enjoyable as was the audio version.
I listened to the audiobook only because I'm a fan of that particular Librivox reader (somehow this text is in the Public Domain).
In the company of a Korean vet whose soul had been deadened by time as a POW, I was transported to a provincial city in (I imagined) New York State ca 1954.
The hero's object was to follow a flimsy clue given to him by a dying POW so as to retrieve an ill-gotten fortune in hidden bank notes.
I particularly enjoyed the economy and elegance of the writing and the underlying humanity.
I love mysteries and I'm thrilled to discover that John D.
MacDonald loved writing them.
If you're in the mood for a noir-ish thriller, John D.
MacDonald is the man to go to!
This is not part of his Travis McGee series, but is a stand-alone little gem.
Semi-shady guys, girls from the wrong side of the tracks, and a small fortune buried somewhere is all the set-up you need for a fun read.
MacDonald wrote an enormous number of books like this, but his style and use of description set him apart from his peers.
He is a master in the dirty little world of pulp fiction.
I plan on reading many more novels by John D.
MacDonald!
Tal Howard is back from Korea where he was held in a POW camp.
While there he met two men, one who had embezzled and hidden a small fortune, and another who is in on the secret and is, unfortunately, a sociopath.
Tal returns to the States to a society that he barely recognizes, not because it has changed but because he has.
He thinks the money will change his life for the better and sets out to track it down, only to find that his true quest is for something deeper and more substantial than cash.MacDonald's tale transcends the genre, as usual.
Classic JDM. A veteran of the Korean War (the book was published in 1955) is a bit shell shocked and at a lot for what to do in his post-war life, and decides to head off to a dead Army buddy's town to follow a random-sounding lead on some hidden money. Mayhem ensues, and romance, and more mayhem (a lot of it). Deliciously pulpy, and not a bit sweet.I love the tagline on my Fawcett paperback reprint: "People who live in glass slippers shouldn't kick stones..." – I don't know what it means but it's great regardless.
Before Travis McGee. Tal Howard, Earl Fitzmartin, Timmy are Korean POWs. All the prisoners work together but Earl Fitzmartin. Timmy dies before rest are released. Timmy tells Tal about money he embezzled from his brother George's business at the behest of George's wife Eloise. She is last seen leaving town with her married lover. Search is on for the money. Reading an e-book can't find the highlighted phrases. Description of personalities Eloise, Fitzmartin and George are great.
I really like vintage pulp fiction, and I really liked this book -- a classic 1950s "buried treasure" tale. It's a stand-alone, not one of MacDonald's Travis McGee series. I'd say that it's a little more dry and slow-moving than the McGee novels, but I was intrigued by the plot, the hero, and, especially, the girl. This would make a great movie, I'd love to see this story on the big screen someday.
I let this sit on the shelf for a rainy day. Why?? It was so very good! Published in 1955 and meshes with the best of contemporary crime fiction. What I mean is that it holds up and could have been written this week. The characters are solid and interesting. The crime/mystery is great. More importantly, MacDonald hits multiple serious social issues that are still with us. I need more of MacDonald!
An early John D. McDonald mystery. The story was interesting a few twists and turns but no shockers. I'm sure it was considered hard boiled for it's time but it's fairly tame by modern standards but worthwhile nonetheless.
*a north korea prison camp*a hospital where tal recovered his health*a motel four miles from hillston/tal stops...later, and i think this could have been better...had it been here from the get-go, but later we learn the motel is called the sunset...sign sign everywhere a sign*a small roadside restaurant/tal eats*hillston,the small town, population 25,000, on the harts river, delaware street is the town's main street...in gordon county*a repair garage where tal makes his first stop in hillston*the lumberyard owned by george warden where fitz works and lives*the time is sometime after the end of the korean conflict...mid-1950s, april when the story opens*timmy graduated in 1946...elsewhere, the reader learns the time is 6-7 years after that...so 1952-1953*the hardware store...off the main street where it'd been*a room at the white's hotel where george warden lives now, room #203*the old warden home, owned now by another, converted to four apartments*the animal hospital where dr.
Stand alone mystery thriller.
Hero with good motives quickly finds himself way over his head.
Hidden treasure, blackmail, murder, the local cops, a runaway husband, a shady private dick, a cheap motel, a “bad girl”, a “good girl“, and of course, the compulsory psycho killer.
How about the cover of the 1955 Dell First Edition Paperback?
It promises everything in the soft gaze of Cinderella peering out from the cover with those bedroom eyes all the while unbeknownst to her the telescopic scope zeros in on her milky white cleavage.
My 25 cents was as good as gone after one look at that illustration!
Classic MacDonald. A twisting mystery full of distinctly human characters and an old-school, tough guy protagonist. Many of its tropes are outdated and I'm not sure how well it will sit with readers not already on board the John MacDonald fan train. It's much less polished and worldly than the McGee books. It also has hints of old-school misogyny. For reference, I jokingly summarized it to a friend as, "A man goes hunting for buried treasure before discovering pussy is the greatest treasure of all." If you can set that aside, it's fun for what it is. Otherwise, skip it.
This was my first John D. MacDonald book. I discovered this writer because Stephen King mentioned him in his book "On Writing."This book hooked me and never let go. The writing is excellent, and the story is powerful. Warning: there's nothing warm and fuzzy about it; it's dark, with regular reminders that people are often selfish and that greed can turn people into predators. All that said, I'm glad I read it and I'll definitely read another MacDonald book.
Interesting detective mystery. Kind of historical, involving soldiers returning from the Korean War... Maybe not quite on the par with Agatha Christie but I liked it. Most all the characters seemed believable and behaved realistically.. Not too many unbelievable twists or miracles or miraculous performances to resolve the story line.Kept me interested and made for a fun quick read!
Cleverly plotted. A MacDonald treasureThe characters and imagery of the story are cleverly plotted and will told. MacDonald at his best. An archeological treasure as well invoking many images of the early part Korean war fifties. Many little reminders of what the world was like then. Little things like gas station attendants pumping gas. Reads quickly.
Good MacDonald thriller!
