https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29939148-never-let-you-go
Well, I wrote it, so I should like it a lot, right? :)
After reading the book description I was pretty sure that I was going to love this book.I was right!The book starts off from Lindsay Nash's point of view.
Lindsay, her husband Andrew, and daughter Sophie are on holiday in Mexico.
Lindsay constantly has to walk on eggshells, careful not to upset her husband and at the same time try to shield her seven-year old from what's going on.
And she's very focused on taking care of her teenage daughter, Sophie.But what will happen when Andrew is released from prison?
A fear-inducing story of manipulation and love gone wrong, NEVER LET YOU GO serves up mind games in the form of devious twists.
Seriously, is there anything better than a great twist to knock you on your ass and change your entire perspective?Ms. Stevens starts by dragging the reader through a gamut of emotions - the excitement of Andrew and Lindsey falling in love and starting a family, the heartbreak when things ultimately fall apart and the gut-wrenching devastation and fear following the final betrayal of trust.
When she starts to have that niggling feeling of being watched and things around her house end up out of place, Lindsey panics.
I think as readers of psychological thriller and suspense stories, we have come to a point where the Gone Girl frenzy has turned us into little monsters that demand to be duped in every single book we read.
I’m as guilty as the rest for doing this, and I’ve decided I can’t keep holding authors responsible for re-creating a feeling I had while reading someone else’s book.
All in all, I was extremely pleased with this read and couldn’t have asked for anything more.If you enjoy fast paced thrillers with ever changing POVs and multiple twists of various sizes, this book is for you.
*3.5 stars rounded up*My husband and I once had an argument because I wanted to recreate the entire cast of Spongebob using family members and he didn't want to play. It wasn’t a serious fight, of course, and it ended with both of us laughing at our (ok, my) idiocy, but the point is—marriage be  crazy  sometimes! It’s the ultimate stomping ground for ungodly amounts of insignificant disputes. And when *fiction* gets a hold of this sacred bond and warps its complexities into darkly disturbing thr
The story is broken into three parts; the first part weaves in and out of past and present settings.
There is a light at the end of this tunnel, and she’s finally going to reach for it.
Don’t get me wrong, I love when I don’t know which characters can be trusted, but it kind of softens the blow if you suspect everyone equally throughout the entire read--at least, that was the case for me here.
This is my first read by Miss Stevens, and I’m going to guess that fans of her work will LOVE this one.
From the start, we know that Lindsey has built herself a new life after escaping an abusive husband.
Told in this manner, it is easy to see how Lindsey got sucked in by her ex-husband, Andrew.
As the violence escalated, it was evident that Lindsey had to get out of her marriage or that she would die at Andrew's hands.Now, over ten years later, Lindsey has established a new life for herself and her daughter, Sophie.
She's only ever known the life of a child of a single-mother, struggling to make ends meet.
*This review may contain spoilers for those who haven't read the book*At first, I thought for sure this was going to be another domestic abuse story like the movie Enough with Jennifer Lopez.
We start out with a newlywed couple that in the beginning of the relationship was your typical love story.
He starts drinking and the relationship quickly turns abusive.
She needs to leave and she can't figure out how she's going to do it.
By the time I got to the end, that's about how I felt- shocked and had no idea!I loved this book and I'm really excited to read more by this author.
Never Let You Go is a very good title for this book.
If the stalker were to be removed from the book, it would still be a potential page turner.Initially, I had to drag myself to read this one.
Unlike regular Goodreads friends, I'm not weathered by the violence and budding threats that are so often in thriller books.
These aren't spy books.
They are thrillers, and I have to say, this one is a hell of a thriller.The novel revolves around Lindsey Nash, her husband Andrew, and their daughter Sophie.
I loved this book, and I hope it shows in my review.
A fantastic domestic thriller 4.5*Lindsey is a blushing new bride.
Of course, there are always the petty disagreements and Andrew does seem to lose his temper rather quickly.
She must find a way out!Now 10 years later, unbelievably Lindsey is once again fearing for her life and that of her daughter.
The fear Lindsey feels is real and palpable.
The strength she demonstrates as she fights for her life and to keep her daughter safe is simply awe-inspiring.
This book has all the misleading and disturbing elements a domestic thriller should have!What a fantastic twist!
"Each day is a new earthquake"!!!Chevy Stevens fans should be satisfied with this new psychological thriller.
"Never Let You Go"...*****5 stars from meWhy?
-- I never lost interest!!!
Lindsey married Andrew.
They had a daughter named Sophie.
Lindsey leaves Andrew after years of an 'extremely' toxic marriage.SHIT HAPPENSLindsay has a girlfriend named Jenny, a boyfriend named Greg, and an exercise trainer named MarcusSophie has a close friend named Delancy and a boyfriend named Jared SHIT HAPPENSNO SPOILERS FROM ME....
Great Ride!
Great Mind Game ....NOT TOO SCARY.....JUST GOOD!!!
Thank You St. Martin's Press, Netgalley, and Chevy Stevens.
Happy New Year to You!!!!!
However, things change when Andrew begins to draw in Sophie into his disturbing relationship with Lindsey.
The story is given from the perspective of mother and daughter, Lindsey and Sophie, shifting from the past to the present.Lindsey now lives in Dogwood Bay, having secured a new hard won life running a cleaning business, has a boyfriend and finds herself drawn to another man.
Sophie is now 17, feeling bereft by the absence of her father, naively wants to believe the best of him and get to know him, and is unknowingly responsible for Andrew now turning up in their lives.
It adds a shocking twist to a thriller for Brenda that she normally wouldn't of experienced if reading it on her own.NEVER LET YOU GO by CHEVY STEVENS is an angst driven, chilling, gripping, and suspenseful domestic psychological thriller novel that explores the darkness of love, manipulation, and obsession.CHEVY STEVENS delivers a well-written and believable story here, with the way that she weaves the story together.
NEVER LET YOU GO is an action-packed, fast-paced, and adrenaline pumping read with just the right amount of tension, shocking events, and twist and turns that will keep you guessing right to the very impressive conclusion!!
I am late to the party with this book.
It has been reviewed to death but what I will say about "Never Let You Go" is that I didn't guess the ending.
That was worth 1/2 a star bumping this from a 3.5 to a 4 Star novel!I listened to the audio.
I was able to stay with the book only because it was well written, interesting and I wanted to see what happened.
This is the second Chevy Stevens novel that I have finished.
That magic is not in this book.
I expected it because I read it in a GR review.
Fear weighs heavily upon her as she realizes only too well how many lives are dependent on Andrew, including their young daughter, Sophie, who adores her father.
Her fearful steps trigger those wings into motion and those at the receiving end of these desperate decisions will never, ever be the same.Chevy Stevens divides her story into three main parts with visitation to the past and existence in the present.
When you are living on the fringes of sanity, who can you actually trust?This was my first Chevy Stevens book.
And surprising.As the story opens our protagonist Lindsay Nash is on vacation with her husband Andrew and their 7 year old daughter Sophie.
Still Linday holds on, she only needs to get through the next little while and once they are home again, hopefully her and Sophie can make her carefully planned, secret escape from her controlling, abusive husband.The night of their escape, unbeknown to Lindsay at the time, Andrew does awaken from his drunken stupor and gives chase.
But now Andrew has been released from prison and strange things are beginning to happen where Lindsay works and lives.
It's official I am a Chevy Stevens fan. I really enjoyed this book. I kept changing my mind on "who was to blame". I liked how the author made me dislike and then turn around to really like some of the characters. My opinion kept changing. Lol.
I learned my lesson--this is not a book to be read late at night!
Fast-forward eleven years: Andrew is released from prison and Lindsey is convinced that he is going to kill her.
Lindsey’s home is broken into and some other creepy stalker like events occur, convincing Lindsey more than ever that Andrew will stop at no end.
The narrative flashes back and forth between past and present and alternates between Lindsey and Sophie’s POV’s, which contributes to shining suspicion on multiple characters.My only complaint was that ending/reveal turned Never Let You Go into a bit of a lifetime movieOverall, this was an entertaining enjoyable read--just don’t read late at night if you scare easily!I received a copy of this book from NetGalley and the publisher in exchange for an honest review.
Lindsey flees with her daughter Sophie, from her abusive, alcoholic controlling husband, Andrew after suffering years of mental and physical abuse.
I feel like I’m suffocating.”Her ex-husband, Andrew had gotten into a car accident when he had been drinking and someone had died, and he was sent to jail…and Lindsey and her daughter start over with a new life.
Will she have to move again?This novel is told from 2 POV (Lindsey and Sophie) and alternating between past and present tense.
Her husband, Andrew, who has been abusing Lindsey for years, attempts to follow her as she escapes with their daughter.
She believes everything in her life is good, until the day her ex-husband is released from prison.When Andrew's release from prison, Lindsey begins to feel like she is being watched, things are moved, her current boyfriend is hit by a truck, someone has been in her home, her dog is poisoned, and there is a sens of unease in the air.
To top off the stress her teenage daughter is in a "relationship" herself which Lindsey does not feel quite right about as the teen reminds her of her ex-husband.
When Lindsey finds this out, her stress and worries double.Andrew, for his part, claims he is a changed man.
It did keep me turning the pages and I was intrigued to find out what was going to happen next but the domestic abuse just made me cringe and I felt very uncomfortable.
I did think this was very well written and I will be looking forward to reading other books by Chevy Stevens.
I did like Lindsay and Sophie.I do recommend this book to those that enjoy an intense domestic abuse thriller.I want to thank Netgalley, St. Martin's Press and Chevy Stevens for a copy of this book in exchange for a honest review.
I enjoyed the format, with alternating chapters of Lindsey and her daughter, Sophie, and switching from past to present throughout the storyline.The book begins in the past, with a brief look at the effects of the extreme abuse Lindsey has suffered from her husband, Andrew.
At one point, I was seriously looking forward to a lull, i.e., drifting thoughts of mental grocery lists; having an old tune float through my head; nodding off into slumber, but I was still flipping pages and literally had a continuous knot in my stomach right till the end.Would I read another Chevy Stevens novel?
It's this action that triggers events that will forever change all of their lives....Told from 2 POV (Lindsay and Sophie) and bouncing from past and present tense, here is where this book differs from most others with the same theme.
I felt the emotion coming off Lindsay as she struggles with such hard decisions.
I found myself rooting for their happiness, and getting angry when it was threatened.Any author that can get that kind of response from me is a star in my book!I highly recommend this and most any Chevy Stevens read...You won't be disappointed!ARC provided by NetGalley
4.5 Stars. Another winner for Chevy Stevens!Andrew is a creepy-scary dude who believes his wife Lindsey is a possession to be controlled. He is obsessively jealous to the point of ridiculous and when he begins to drink, oh boy, he becomes cruel and violent.....except to daughter Sophie. "Your dad loved to scare me." Chevy Stevens' story of a marriage gone bad is NOT like so many others I've read with a similar theme, but has more than one mysterious and thrilling spin that takes the reader in va
Another winner for Chevy Stevens!Andrew is a creepy-scary dude who believes his wife Lindsey is a possession to be controlled.
Chevy Stevens' story of a marriage gone bad is NOT like so many others I've read with a similar theme, but has more than one mysterious and thrilling spin that takes the reader in various directions that certainly kept me guessing throughout the story.
Even when I was sure I knew the outcome of the story, I was thrown yet another curveball leading me elsewhere.I've read and enjoyed several Stevens' novels, and except for the mild animal cruelty, NEVER LET YOU GO is now a new favorite.Many thanks to NetGalley and St. Martin's Press for the ARC in exchange for an unbiased review.
This novel focuses on a woman named Lindsay, who escapes with her young daughter the night her alcoholic, abusive husband is arrested and put in jail.
Lindsay begins to question her and her daughter’s safety- has her ex-husband found her?
As is typical in a Stevens’s novel, every page is an addictive thrill-ride that leaves the reader questioning who to trust.
Steven’s showcases her writing chops in this novel, highlighting her creative talent and powerful ability to turn a wicked tale.
With surprises at every turn (and the biggest one, of course, being at the novel’s suspense-ridden conclusion), this novel will keep a reader guessing until the last page.
Her marriage to Andrew had been wonderful at first – but during her pregnancy, and after Sophie was born, Lindsey noticed subtle changes.
Would Sophie contact her father?
Lindsey begged her not to see or speak to him, but Sophie had a mind of her own – she wanted to know her father…Lindsey’s nightmares were coming true once again – she knew Andrew was stalking her; getting into her home when they weren’t there.
Lindsey knew they couldn’t continue running – Sophie’s final year in school was important and she also wanted her own life – a life without constantly looking over her shoulder.
Sister Read with Norma4.5 StarsI was too impatient to wait to get the print copy from Norma so I decided to listen to the audio version of Never Let You Go. I enjoyed it for the most part but do have to admit the voice of Sophie did annoy me a bit. I probably would've preferred to have read it instead of listening to it.Full sister review on Norma's reviews.If you are interested it can also be found on our blog as well http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
I had a couple of experiences with Chevy Stevens' psychological thrillers before Never Let You Go. I really struggled with Still Missing.
And Never Let You Go felt like another experience altogether.
Set in two different time frames, Never Let You Go focuses on Lindsey and her daughter Sophie.
This was not a sit on the edge of my seat experience, but I still really enjoyed it -- it felt more like a mystery than a thriller.
Thanks to Netgalley and the publisher for an opportunity to read an advance copy.
A domestic thriller about an emotionally abusive and controlling husband, Andrew and his wife, Lindsey.
They have a daughter, Sophie, who Andrew uses to further "control" and induce fear unto Lindsey.
Lindsey comes up with a plan and eventually escapes with her daughter while Andrew is passed out on the couch.
Fast forward eleven years , Andrew is prison and Lindsey and Sophie are enjoying their new lives without the constant abuse from Andrew.
That is until he gets released from prison and returns to the area they are living.Sophie is a teenager now and Lindsey has a new boyfriend.
This is the third book that I have read by this author, and it's another good thriller. Ms. Stevens doesn't disappoint. Lindsay, marries young, to a man who ends up being very controlling, jealous, and later.. abusive. She has a young daughter, Sophie..and feels she must escape. This is their story told in alternating chapters by mother and daughter.
\
