https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9419.Shopaholic_Ties_the_Knot
Only Becky Bloomwood could get herself in this much trouble. But the best part is always seeing her struggle to get out of it! Never change, Becky.
I love Sophie Kinsella's writing style so much! Her books are like candy and I can't get enough! I love how Rebecca isn't a totally likable character; she has her flaws but she always learns from her mistakes in the end and becomes stronger. I was obsessed with the first half of the book as I'm totally invested in Luke and Becky's relationship, but the wedding drama kind of dragged on a bit too long for me. Still really liked this book, though, and I will be reading the fourth very soon!
The way she had to drag on the wedding decision totally wore out my patience.
At some point, I was so irritated at her that I wasn't really concentrating on what I was reading because I wanted to hurry up and get to the conclusion.
And it's too silly how Luke was so unaware of the chaotic wedding planning, don't you think?
I mean, my boyfriend is totally successful/super busy and I may be a ditz..
but he would know if I'm planning two weddings.
But yet it was definitely entertaining, and it did make me want a spectacular wedding at Plaza.
I know a 2-star rating is typically an automatic: "she didn't like it", but I am using the formal goodreads definition for the rating here. It was OK. To be honest, I am playing catch-up on this series now that my library has finally added the audiobooks, and reading about Becky's epic avoidance-laden screw ups back-to-back was not the brightest idea. The cute is quickly turning to annoying, so I'll wait a few weeks before continuing to the next installment. Overall, it's a great series, but I wouldn't recommend a Shopaholic bingefest. Everything in moderation, right Becky?
If it were possible I would give Shopaholic Ties the Knot and extra star, because this is my favorite book in the series.
In Shopaholic Ties the Knot, Becky deals with a problem we have all had to deal with, two weddings on the same day in different countries.
Luke is often a B or even C character in this series but in The Knot Luke actually gets some character development and expands beyond just being the straight guy to Becky's comedy.
As always if you liked Confessions of a Shopaholic than you'll enjoy the rest of the series.
If you didn't like the first book don't read the rest of the series.
Well, I'm definitely glad Becky is off on her round the world honeymoon. I was so stressed by the time this book was over, I thought it would never end! Not as funny as the first two, there was just too much tension. I can't say I enjoyed this one a whole lot.
This third book in the series was just as funny and in some ways more hilarious than the first book. This book has Becky and Luke moving forward in their relationship. The problems begin when Becky can't say no, to totally different plans for the same event. The cast of characters is fun and full bodied. They have their own personalities which fill this book with a lot of conflict and humor. Well written and fun, I was glad I read this book.
Becky can't seem to say no to either woman; one because it would break her heart, the other because she'd just be ignored.The wedding Luke's mother, Elinor, is planning is a huge, hugely expensive and over-the-top affair at the Plaza in New York.
I believe Becky and Luke love each other, and in this book especially we get to understand Luke better.
BUT, I believe Luke wanted to marry Becky, and I understood that he has issues with his mother that took over.
I just don't like that Becky couldn't talk to him, didn't want to burden him with her own problems, and had no one to turn to.
Becky Bloomwood is a delight and adorable!
Part of what makes these books so funny and cute is the ability Becky has to justify every purchase she makes.
And her shopaholic problems aside, she's a sweet, kind and big-hearted person.My sister and I were actually able to go to an author talk with Sophie Kinsella, and she's just as adorable as Becky!
So far there are 5 books in the series (Confessions of a Shopaholic is the first), and all are worth the read.
But, just imagine the delights of a shopaholic with an excuse to purchase all things wedding-related.:)Happy reading!Winner of Annie's Awards 2005:"Favorite Comedy" - 2nd place
Weer een leuk verhaal over Becky en Luke. Hoewel ik het midden wat langdradig vond, zit het verhaal wel leuk in elkaar. Grappig hoe alles uiteindelijk toch op z'n pootjes terecht komt. En wat ben ik benieuwd naar deel 4; in dit deel wordt onthuld waar deel 4 over gaat en dit heeft mij erg nieuwsgierig gemaakt!
Really enjoyed this one. Much better than #1 and #2 in my opinion.
I really wanted to like this book - I was planning my own wedding at the time and thought this would be an easy, relatable read - nope.
I thought Becky came off too strong and annoying in the Manhattan book, but apparently she had a lot more "character" in her.In this book, Becky and Luke are planning their wedding.
Becky accepts Luke's icy mother's offer to throw them a top-notch New York wedding and has all the glitz and glamour Becky dreams about.
I know the main complaint people have about these books is how annoying Bex can be, but I don't mind her.
Bex is basically running around like a chicken with her head cut off throughout this whole book.
She has promised both her mother and her mother-in-law that they could plan her wedding, and nobody knows...Not even Luke.
I will admit she is the queen of laugh out loud humor.
She can make you cringe and laugh at the embarrassing situations her heroines get into.Dragging out the decision about where to have the wedding was the only bad part.
I've decided that, since I'm pretty preoccupied with wedding stuff as it is, what could be more fun that going through the adventure with an old friend? Hence, some of my joys and stresses will be meshed with Becky's--and I'm grateful for the companionship! :-)
My least favourable Shopoholic book so far. Becky is stuck having 2 weddings and she have to decide which one she want the most and still manage to make everyone happy. It is an ok read but the story wasn't as funny as the previous ones and throughout the whole book Becky just keep avoiding confrontation and whining. Very little plot material for this one.I still can't get the chemistry between Luke and Brandon. They are vastly different. Yeah u can say opposite attract but I still can't see how they fit in each other's life
The book was prolonged quite a bit as Becky makes (failed) attempts to turn down a wedding and go ahead with the other arrangement all whilst keeping Luke in the dark on the final decision.
I could really see how Becky really cared about these people even though her own wedding plans were a mess!
The way her wedding eventuated was a comical surprise.
I just hope in one of the future books, Rebecca would solve her problems in a better way.
It always seems to me that lucky things happen so that Rebecca doesn't actually have to confront her dilemma head on.
Het heeft weer even geduurd voor ik dit boek uit had maar het was weer een ouderwets goede. Weer heerlijk gelachen om de onhandigheid van Becky en de situaties waar ze zich in werkt. Nu even een pauze in de shopaholic serie tijdens de resterende tijd van m'n vakantie en daarna weer vrolijk verder! Het blijft een leuke serie om te lezen.
Rebecca Bloomwood is probably the only character I forgive being an absolute pain in the ...She makes me furious and eye-rolling, I want to shout at her and still I find myself enjoying the books.I loved all the wedding talk. Must the Disney princess inside me still waiting for her big day.
I'd already read the first two books a couple of times but if I remember correctly, this is only the second time I've gotten the chance to read Shopaholic Ties The Knot.
Unlike the previous two books, Shopaholic Ties The Knot isn't focused solely on shopping.
Shopaholic Ties The Knot focuses firmly on Becky and Luke's wedding and I liked the fact that it was different to the first two books.
We get to know Luke so much more during Shopaholic Ties The Knot and it seems as if he has some unresolved issues, particularly where his mother Elinor is concerned (whom I don't like, for the record).
Becky Bloomwood’s character builds a certain level of expectation particularly readers she was introduced to in two prior novels.
But instead Ms. Kinsella takes the reader to a bizarre scenario where two weddings are being planning for Becky to occur on the same day.
I just got married very recently and I was hoping for the book to indulge me with wedding (mis)adventures so that I can relate, laugh, and recollect about my own wedding planning (not that I splurged…well, maybe a little…)!The new characters Ms. Kinsella introduced are annoying and incomprehensible.
And when he does design Becky’s outfits, the clothes come apart!!!??
I'm not a big chick lit fan, but find Sophie Kinsella's work to be a real guilty pleasure-- slight but fun.
However, Shopaholic Ties the Knot is definitely not her best.
In the other Shopaholic books, protagonist Becky Bloomwood, is ditzy and self-indulgent, but basically a fun and sweet girl that you can sort of identify with.
Here, Becky gets engaged and is torn between having the simple English wedding her mother is planning and the big society wedding at The Plaza that her future stepmother desires.
This book was definitely subpar, even for chick lit.
Life has been good for Becky Bloomwood: She’s become the best personal shopper at Barneys, she and her successful entrepreneurial boyfriend, Luke, are living happily in Manhattan’s West Village, and her new next-door neighbor is a fashion designer!
But with her best friend, Suze, engaged, how can Becky fail to notice that her own ring finger is bare?
Ugh, why can't Becky and I be friends in real life?
Living in West Village is a DREAM of mine and she has a dream job and has a successful boyfriend/fiance AND has a friend who is a designer...
Кой друг, освен Беки, ще си организира 2 сватби в един ден на 2 различни континента.Какво пък, важното е да има предизвикателства .Но пък във всяка следваща книга от серията, Беки израства и помъдрява.Няма как да й се сърди човек, не прави нищо със задни помисли.
Просто й е по-трудно да взима бързи решения.Всяка от книгите в серията си имат култов момент.
Само си представете , как приятелката й започва да ражда неочаквано, без да си е взела приготвения багаж.
Пълна забава.Има един малко тъжен цитат, който си запазих:"Живеем в самоотразяващ се , самовлюбен свят ."И така , да видим какво става нататък.
While she’s enjoying life as a Personal Shopper at Barney’s, which I swear is every shopaholic’s dream, her family from England wanted her to stay in the countryside with her husband.
If you’re Becky Bloomwood, you would be at your wits end, and might just end up in a mental.While I enjoyed the first two books in the series, this one kinda made me back off a little from Becky’s spending ways.
There might still be chance for Becky after all.I enjoyed reading this third book and would still want to see what happens next when she’s finally settled.
Becky seems less lying in this book. she is just not telling full truth. umm...that's fun. gosh! I am so in love with this series.
3.5 This series is slowly turning into my guilty pleasure that I enjoy greatly, however, this is my least favorite so far in the series. Becky gave me a headache in this book. I'm not sure how she got herself into the situation of having 2 weddings and continued to not fix it. I know this is supposed to be a fun and girly read, which it is but at some points I just wanted to pull my hair out.
My least favourite so far; it dragged on and on. The marriage of the main couple in a chick-lit should, in my opinion, be fun and magical and exciting. In this book it was almost depressing.
Jane called the episode "The Seesaw," and in her post, she warns against mistaking alternation for advancing the plot.That's this book.
Becky has to decide whether to accept her parents' offer to throw them a wedding or Luke's birth mother's.
She continually proves herself to be a weak-willed, short-sighted coward with a very shallow understanding of other human beings.Look, you know what you're getting into with a Shopaholic book by now, and it's not like I had towering hopes for this one, but I had a basic expectations based on the premise.
There's decadence, but no budgeting choices, since both of Becky and Luke's wedding options are all-expenses-paid.
This book was strongly recommended to me by a friend because I asked for a light book.I had never read any of the shopaholic books but I was curious so I decided to give it a shot.
No. Will I read any more Shopaholic books?
However, I would give this author another shot with one of her other books because I feel like this was simply a case of not connecting with the main character.
I read it a few days ago, not anything that had an impact on me, just something fun.
Something about reading about weddings is just fun.
People are happy.
Becky knows there is a problem and thinks if she ignores them the'll just go away.
(view spoiler)[ Suze and Tarquin's wedding was great!
I know we got a little more of her back story later, but I still don't see the need for her attitude.
I don't think it's in the next book though.
She might mention some things, but I don't think we're going to get the full story.
