https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62103.The_Complete_Phantom_of_the_Opera
I had never read the book (before now), I had only seen the movies so I never really thought about Erik as a hideous beast.
I want him to have a happy ending, but he is so broke.
It is much too easy for him to choose the easiest/darkest choices (torture or killing) to obtain his goals.I think that anyone who has seen the play or watch the movies might have a hard time connecting to this version (the original) of Erik.
I know I did.
I want to like him and have him win in the end of the movies/plays.
You know the average girl.
But when I saw the video of All I Ask of You with the divine Sarah Brightman and Cliff Richard back in 1986 and learned that it was from a stage musical, my curiosity got piqued.I have never seen any footage from that musical after seeing the video but the melody stuck with me then.
And when my cousin from Canada gave her friend a copy of the cast recording on tape and a photocopy of the libretto, I was ushered into a new world.I didn't know that cast recordings embodied so much heart and passion of a show even if you haven't seen it live.
A very nice, compact look at the origins of the novel and its subsequent forays into film and musicals, with focus on the Andrew Lloyd Weber version. This edition came out in 1988, just after Weber's "Phantom" hit theaters, so there isn't anything about any other versions after that or much about the continuing impact of that show or its success, which would have been nice. But, a nice easy read with lots of photos; the photos of the ALW cast, costumes, set, decorations, and so forth (especially the Phantom make-up!) are very nice.
This was really cool. There is so much about the Opera House, the many many different Phantom adaptations, Gaston, and of course the Weber version. Plus the pictures are amazing.
Mainly delving into the origins of the Paris Opera House and the mad genius of its architect Charles Garnier, the interesting life of the Phantom's maker, Gaston Leroux, and how the compelling story went from book to silver screen and to the theatre where it reins to this day.I loved learning all of the little details about the most singular Opera House.
How could Leroux go there and not create such a fantastic story.
The differences between the stage version and recent movie version might confuse some other people, but I enjoyed reading it and looking for the differences.
I've been in love with Phantom of the Opera since I was three years old and this book is a must-have for people who love the Gaston Leroux book and the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical. Full of information and beautiful photographs, it's a gem!
This book is one of my favorites. It's an epic, haunting classic that is a must read.
This is my 500th read book on goodreads and HOW perfect is that!
I love Phantom of the Opera, so it was really fascinating to see photos from the original 1986 production with Michael Crawford and Sarah Brightman.
I’ve never seen those images before!
I enjoyed reading about the musical’s origins, the decisions Webber made to omit certain characters of the novel to centralize the main three (Christine, Phantom and Raoul), and the closeups on the costume designs and sketches.
It was a nice companion book to the musical illustrating many behind the scenes elements.
Now maybe I’ll listen to the music...
Excellent collection of stories that comprise the whole story of the Phantom of the Opera. Loved the history and all learning all the little tidbits. An excellent compliment to watching the Opera in person.
A good overview of depictions of the Phantom story on the page, the screen, and the stage; published in connection with the hit musical.
THE PHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAANTOM OF THE OPERAAAAAAAAAAAA IS HEREEEEEEEEEEEINSIDE YOUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUR MIIIIIIIIND
It was nice to read about this ubiquitous musical that I am kind of ambivalent towards.
I liked reading about when it was fresh and new and had the joy of invention and collaboration with talented people who were making it for the first time.
The historical backstory of the Paris Opera House and Gaston Leroux's novel were edifying, and the inclusion of the original libretto was especially generous.
Definitely enjoyed looking at the pictures of the show before it became this giant bloated repetitive megathing in pop culture.
Kind of makes me wish it wasn't as successful as it turned out to be.
In Chinese,we name it<<歌剧魅影>>.But it completely subvert the impressions of Phantom we've gotten from western culture.He is charming,warm,creativity and genius,but he is a tragic human being,he can't be accepted by the others,living like a ghost,but he still can't break away from the oprea he loves in life,he deeply loved Christina.The world is unfair to him.In fact,if I'm the Christina I will love him,even he is poor,even we can't go out a while just for a walk.But the ending is so real and tragic,That's the world often going to be...
So much darker than I had expected. Before reading the book I had seen the show on broadway and I think I expected something similar. However, the basic plot is really the only thing the two have in common. The book is much darker with more back story and explanation. Although it was so different, I enjoyed it immensly and loved the twists and turns as well as the high drama. I also really enjoyed the narrator and his outsiders perspective.
Exquisito, sentí en su narración una mezcla del jinete sin cabeza cruzado con la bella y la bestia y hasta Scooby Doo en la parte del fantasma al órgano. Me encantó la narrativa, la forma de explicar los eventos y de describir las escenas.Definitivo que el amor todo lo puede.. Más que recomendado!
One of favorite books of all time.While reading this story your heart breaks for the phantom. You feel his pain and anguish as the story unfolds.He does terrible things, yet somehow the author still makes you fell sorrow for the phantom.The story for me is about what we all want just to be loved for yourself.If your are a fan of the play or just a reader this is a book not to be missed.
I love this edition, all the versions wrapped into one with illustrations. The Phantom of the Opera is another timeless classic and wil forever take its rightful place on my bookshelf. For anyone who loves the story behind the phantom of the opera, this book takes you from the original story to the film adaptation and finally to the theatre, where it gained ihas gained its most publicity.
OMG! Did i love this book or what? of course! it is the perfect book for all PHANS! it has everything, all the versions of the book and the movies and it has information about the broadway show. It goes behind the scenes on the story and it is a great read. A must read for phan lovers and it makes you want to go watch the show on broadway!
So i read this while I was in Europe this summer and I feel like that just made me love it so much more!! Not just the fact that Christine Daae is also my dream stage role!! There are so many subtle differences in the book than the movie or the stage show and I fell in love with it!! Definitely one I'd re-read!
Excellent overview of the history of one of my favorite musicals-- it was published in 1988, I believe, so the section on the ALW musical is sadly shorter than I would have liked, but overall a fascinating book full of pictures and fun trivia.
This book is an amazing source of information for the original novel, the musical and several of the movie versions. I loved Robert Heindel's drawings and all the photos. It is a must-read for all Phans!
This book is excellent, it shows all the film versions and the gaston leroux book....It mostly shows the first versions and webber's version of the phantom of the opera. The pictures were excellent and I've seen the 2004 version of the movie which is my favorite. This book was awesome!
An amazing history of Phantom. Starts with the building of the Paris Opera house and takes you up to the first production of the ALW musical. Includes the movie adaptations and the book, of course. Wish there was an even more recent one though... :/
This book gives me a feeling of being ugly. I was really impressed by the Ghost Phantom. He was a really interesting man. So secretly stayed under the opera. And also about his deeper love on Christine! I appreciate his love on Christine!
A really fun read for fans of the Phantom. The book has tons of photos and fun facts, and covers everything from the construction of the Opera to the original production of the musical. I would love to see a second edition that covers the Phantom in recent years.

This is certainly an interesting read. It's not only about the play, but also about the original novel, the novel's author, and the actual opera house where it all set. I was thrill to see this, and was fascinated.
This book is ... Terrifying.
4 - 4  stars
4 - 4 ½ stars
A really good book. I liked the way the characters intermingled with each other. It made the setting and situations real.
