https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1753723.The_Flight_of_the_Heron
I got a teeny bit of time off before finals week, so naturally I thought the most relaxing possible thing to do would be to settle down with a completely random book found on the library free giveaway shelf.
A slashy gem.Published in 1929, it’s a delicious melodrama about an English soldier, Keith Windham, and a Highlander, Ewen Cameron of Ardroy, who become best friends or possibly more despite being on opposite sides of the Jacobite rebellion.
Keith Windham, a lonely woobie English soldier whose father is dead, whose mother didn’t love him, and whose girlfriend cheated on him, gets caught in an ambush.
Set in Scotland in the 1745 Jacobite Rebellion, this is the story of an unlikely friendship between Keith Windham, a career soldier in the British Army, and a young Highland chieftain who follows Bonnie Prince Charlie in his bid for the throne.
Ewen Cameron's foster-father, who has the two sights, predicts their meeting five times, through an encounter with a heron, and these meetings do indeed come about.
And she did the job brilliantly; the book's funny and moving by turns, and though the ending is sad, it's also absolutely epic and stays in the mind for a long, long time.Highly recommended; keep the tissues handy, though.
Other, earlier books of hers (Mr. Rowl, The Wounded Name, even to some extent the religious novel she co-wrote, The Vision Splendid) have similar pre-slash - or, if you prefer, romantic friendship - elements.
But this is the one that is most perfectly conceived, and when I scribble, I still find myself unconsciously imitating moments from "The Flight of the Heron." D.K. Broster died in 1950, having lived a long life as a historian in the shadow of men, unmarried and childless, but with at least one lengthy domestic relationship with another woman - sexual or not, who can tell?
A splendid yarn of the 45 Jacobite uprising under Bonnie Prince Charlie, firmly in the Scott-Stevenson-Buchan tradition. Fuller review to follow.
I was given this book as a present nearly forty years ago.
Struggled as a child (just preteen) to read it, but held on - it had reputation for being good.It is - but it's writing style is bit staid, and is really didn't like some of the phonetic dialogue.
Bit parts have accents the main highlanders don't!So I'm glad I read it eventually but not one to rave about or push on friends etc.In looking at other reviews I am appalled by the tosh about a gay subtext.
The Flight of the Heron by D.
Originally published in 1925 and reprinted 28 times according to copyright info in the front of the book.
Mad Pub Lib had books 2 and 3 in the 3 vol.
series but I had to get this one from UW library system.
Discovered it on the blog Pen and Pencil Girls bemoaning the fact that it will probably never make it to the Kindle.
The photo with the blog post was from 1960's TV series based on the book and set me reading.
Still debating whether I want to read the whole series.
In fact, although the writing style is a little dated (though certainly not unreadable), the story was less about the highland laird and his beautiful lady and more about a series of awkward and hilariously polite skirmishes between two men from either side of the Jacobite fence.
Throw in a dash of prophecy, treachery and misguided loyalty, all set against a mostly historically accurate backdrop and it makes for a fun romp through the highlands.
1 star off for the ending, which I felt was a dramatically unnecessary and put me off reading the next two books in the series because I was so annoyed by what it meant for the rest of the books.
A great Scottish story that takes place around the time of the battle of Culloden and its aftermath. Though the battle is not described in the book, the relentless pursuit of the rebels is . The story centers around a Scottish noble and an English officer and how their lives intertwine with each other. And how , though they should be enemies, they end up friends. The first book in the Jacobite Trilogy.
I read this book many years ago after borrowing it from a friend. It's engrossing and gave me a real passion for this time in history and the interest to do more travel in Scotland. The book is hard to find though and I have spent so much time in libraries and book shops searching for my own copy (and anything else by DK Broster).
Great historical fiction from my youth. I picked this up again after reading an interview of Shirley Hazzard where she commented that this was one of her favorite books.
Scotland, Bonny Prince Charlie and the Jacobite revolt. Set in the highlands. I remember many of the places mentioned. Interesting to see the writing style of 1925 historical fiction.
This was a reread of a favorite teenage book, first encountered when I lived in the UK. It is still a romantic, evocative, and I have no idea how accurate an account of "heroes"of the second Jacobite Uprising, and the arrival of The Young Pretender (Bonnie Prince Charlie) in Scotland for the ill-fated march south, but the story has lasted well (for me) considering it first appeared in 1925.
One of those books that should be on every reading list. Great on first reading, but strangely disposable after that. The second and third parts of the trilogy suffer from the same symptom. Of their time.
Frustrating because I accidentally hit the review bar. I haven't read this yet and it won't let me erase the stars to zero. Will have to read soon so I can give it s real review.
