https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/197442.Alexander_and_the_Wind_Up_Mouse
After all, Alexander is a real mouse, and his life is riddled with hatred from people who see him as a pest.
But does Willy the wind-up mouse really have a perfect life?
But can he help Willy and make a true friend in the process?With beautiful collage illustrations and a powerful lesson akin to The Velveteen Rabbit about the way we treat our inanimate objects and the way we treat our friends, Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse is just as timely today as ever and can still be enjoyed by today's generation of readers, both young and old alike.
Throughout the entire story images are displayed in proportion to the typical size of a mouse which provides the reader with a reasonable understanding for how a mouse views life.
The pictures in this story vary in how they were displayed.
At times there may have been only two or three items on a page which then left a lot of empty white space and seemed somewhat boring.
Other times, however, the illustrator took advantage of the space and used it to the fullest covering every spot possible.
It was also noticable that the Lionni never fully colored a page completely.
A slightly off beat fable, featuring Leo Lionni's grey and white collaged mice.
The book is made entirely by collage, with gorgeous printed cutouts interspersing and his frequently used wide-eyed mice.
A magic lizard in the forest tells him that if he brings him a purple pebble, he can transform him into a wind-up mouse.
Alexander sets out and finds the pebble nestled near a box of discarded toys.
Struck by this, Alexander decides to use the lizard's magic to transform the wind-up mouse into a real one like himself, and the result is that upon his return home, he finds a new friend, Willy, waiting for him.
Review: This is a great book about friendship.
Alexander being a real mouse becomes friends with Willy the wind-up mouse even though they are different.
This book has a great meaning and at the end both mice are happy, which makes it a good ending.
Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse book can show children what others will do for friends.
Learning Experience: After reading Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse, talk about what the moral of this book was, wishing.
The students would get into groups of four and talk about their wishes to the group.
Neat! A fun little story about a mouse that befriends a toy windup mouse, containing a nice message cautioning against envy. My favorite part was the lizard.
The real mouse wants to be like the wind-up toy, but then has a last minute change of heart.
(The Wizard of Willoughby Wallow is better, but it targets a slightly older audience.)Annie gets rid of many of her old toys, including the wind-up mouse, when she gets new ones for her birthday.
Patterns on dishes, wallpaper, blankets, bottles ...
Are they supposed to be wine bottles?
I think they represent the kitchen but why wine bottles?
Is there supposed to be a Soviet connection?At first I gave this 3 stars, but the more I think about the story, the less I like it; hence the 2 star rating.
A good lesson that shows the grass is not always greener on the other side.Ages: 4 - 8**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
A cute little story about friendship. Why am I only now reading this <3
I love rodent heroes and I enjoyed this story.
Willy isn’t just any ordinary mouse; he is a wind up mouse.
While Willy and Alexander become friends, Alexander wants to become a wind up mouse like Willy.
When time comes for Alexander to turn in his special item he realizes that he didn’t want to be a wind up mouse anymore, yet he wants to help save his friend Willy.
Alexander is mouse that is not only full of imagination but has a kind heart.
He shows compassion throughout the story and with the help of his friend Willy he is able to not only help himself but also help his friend.
1. Book summary, in your own words (3 pts)Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse is a Caldecott Honor Book.
It is about a mouse named Alexander who is really quite lonely and does not understand why the humans are so mean towards him.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)I would read this book aloud to my class as a part of reading and/or story time.
It would also be good to use it as a way to get the students to think about the meaning behind the story.4.
He searched for a purple pebble so the magic lizard could turn him into a likable wind-up toy.
The story was sometimes completed by the pictures.
For example, when Alexander finally found the purple pebble the lizard asked for, he also saw the wind-up mouse was left in the box where the old toys were put in.
The word only tells that Alexander found the pebble but doesn’t tell anything about the wind-up mouse.
With some magical elements in it, the book is really good for early readers.
On of his earliest books is Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse.Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse is an old childhood favorite of mine.
One of her favorite toys is a wind up mouse named Willy.
In the end though Alexander comes to rescue of Willy.For the choice of a wind-up mouse and for the theme of the transformational powers of love, I am reminded of Russell Hoban's novel The Mouse and His Child.
Lionni's book is a nice introduction to the much longer children's novel.Leo Lionni's illustrations are similar to Eric Carl's.
This book is a great story of friendship between a real mouse and a toy mouse.
Alexander was a mouse who wanted a few crumbs from the kitchen, but was always chased away.
Willy was loved by the family and even got to sleep in bed with other toys.
Alexander wanted to be loved by the family too, so he found a lizard who can turn him into a toy mouse.
So Alexander had the lizard turn Willy into a real mouse and they lived happily ever after.
Alexander encounters many challenges throughout the story but the real solution was under his nose the whole time.
This book tells the story of Alexander the mouse and his desire to be transformed into a wind-up mouse by the magical lizard in the bush.
Alexander wants to be loved as a wind-up toy rather than hunted with mouse traps and chased with brooms.
Alexander changes his mind and decides to ask the lizard to transform his friend Willy the wind-up mouse into a real mouse instead because Willy is about to be thrown out with old toys.
The book resolves with Alexander and Willy (now a real mouse) dancing as best friends.
I usually like Leo Lionni, but something about this one just bothered me.
When I was younger, I would have sympathized with poor Alexander the mouse who just wants to eat a few crumbs but can't because the humans scream for help and chase him with a broom when they see him.
As an adult, I felt sympathy for the poor humans who had a mouse in their house!
I do like the illustrations, though.
The patterns do get a bit crazy in some of the illustrations, but I think they're fun.
Two stars for the story, but I'll bump this up to three because of the illustrations.
Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse was so good I wanted to throw all of our copies of the Velveteen Rabbit into the fire -- which really isn't a half-bad story in its own right. Unfortunately, we don't have a fireplace. I'll bet if we had a fireplace my wife wouldn't let me use it, because she'd think I wouldn't use it responsibly. I wish I could find a wind-up mouse to love me.
The story has a good moral: you may not actually want to be different from what you are and it is kind to share.
Dad read to us..krb 12/1/16
So Alexander goes to the lizard and asks to be changed into a wind-up mouse, but the lizard tells him to come back with a purple pebble.
So Alexander looks for a long time for a purple pebble, and the little girl has a birthday party where they got rid of all her old toys (which actually sounds like a good idea, as a parent) and the wind-up mouse is in a box, going to be thrown away, along with a purple pebble.
So Alexander uses the pebble to turn the wind-up mouse into a real mouse.
Estimate of reading level: K-3rd grade5.
Brief description: Alexander, a real mouse, wants to be loved like his toy friend, Willy.
At different points in the book, he makes both Alexander and Willy's eyes show emotion just by lowering their lids.
2nd graders will most love this book, as they are becoming stronger readers.
There are harder words to read and understand, such as "envy" "alas" and "precious." The story itself will serve 2nd and 3rd graders as they are entering the social phase of friends over self.8.
The book is about Alexander the mouse, who meets a wind-up mouse named Willy.
Willy is cuddled with and everyone loves him, but everyone hates Alexander.
Alexander wishes he were a wind-up mouse like Willy.
He went to go visit the lizard, and the lizard told him that he needed to bring him a purple pebble.
He ran to the lizard as fast as he could, but you'll have to read the book yourself to find out what he asks of the lizard.
I would definitely read this book aloud and have a discussion about its meaning with my students.
The story follows Willy the wind-up mouse who use to be loved and played with all the time, however, once his owner got new toys he gets pushed to the side.
The real mouse feels bad about himself for always being pushed away when he tries to eat so he is given one wish from a magical lizard.
Once the toys owner gets a new toy she forgets about spending time with him and decides to throw him away.
My only critique for this book is that the lizard in the story doesn’t really make sense and could use more elaboration.
Lush collages illustrate a story of a friendship between a real mouse and a wind up mouse.
But, when it's time to get his wish granted (from a magic lizard who lives in the garden), real mouse Alexander doesn't want to be turned into a wind-up mouse.
He wishes wind up mouse would turn into a real mouse, so they can be friends together forever.
His wish is granted, just in time, because wind up mouse turns up in the 'to be discarded' toy pile.
Reminds me of Toy Story, but of course, it predates THAT movie.
This story follows Alexander, a mouse, who cannot be in the house he gets food from without being attacked or screamed at by the owners.
One, day he finds a wind-up mouse who tells him that he is happy being the toy that the boy in the house plays with.
Alexander wants the same so he finds a lizard that grants wishes; at the end of the book Alexander decides to make his wind-up mouse friend into a real mouse so they can be friends as normal mice.
The book keeps it simple with the plot but the art is the real star of the book.
Why doesn't Alexander look for somewhere else to live?I also like the subtle critique of consumerist materialism.
Picturebooks pretty much always have an implied adult reader anyway.I'm not quite sure, but I'm also toying with idea of the story having a homoerotic subtext as well.
Alexander says he loves the wind-up mouse, whose name is Willy, and I'm pretty sure they're giving each other bedroom eyes when they dance the night away at the end of the story.
(Speaking of which, I found it very interesting that the bedroom eyes at the end of the story and Alexander's sad eyes earlier in the story look exactly the same.
COMMENTS: A classic Lionni tale that has long been a favorite of mine.
CURRICULUM: 1) Easily adaptable to story hour, my favorite format being flannel board format.
2) Collage images are simple and alluring and can easily be adapted for an accompanying craft.
3) Check with local interior designer for old sample books to create colorful lizards.
4) You can also recycle old greeting cards to create treasure boxes.
5) Give everyone a purple pebble (I found sacks of them at pet stores for fish tanks).
Talk about wishing and if you had one wish to make on a purple pebble, what would your wish be.
This is a fiction book about a mouse named Alexander who finds a wind-up mouse named Willy.
Unfortunately, Willy can only move when someone winds him up.
On the other hand, Alexander wishes he could be a toy mouse like Willy, to be cuddled and loved.
Alexander encounters a magic lizard in the garden that can change him into a wind-up mouse.
But when Alexander sees Willy in a give away box, he wants to do what’s right and wish for him to be free.
Alexander wishes Willy to become a real mouse just like him.
Leo Lionnie ist am ehesten bekannt für seine Geschichte um die Maus Frederick, die Farben statt Vorräte für den Winter sammelt.
Im gleichen Stil gezeichnet (oder besser als Collagen gestaltet) ist auch Alexander und die Aufziehmaus.
Alexander beneidet die Aufziehmaus Willi zunächst, denn dieser ist bei seiner Besitzerin sehr beliebt.
Alexander wäre gern auch Aufziehmaus.
Kurz bevor er sich bei der magischen Eidechse den Wunsch erfüllen lassen kann, auch zur Aufziehmaus zu werden, soll Willi jedoch mit anderem alten Spielzeug entsorgt werden.
So ändert Alexander seinen Wunsch und macht Willi zu einer echten Maus und damit zu seinem besten Freund!Herzerwärmend, eines meiner Lieblingsbilderbücher!
Sehr schöne, schlichte und eindrucksvolle Bilder.
_Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse_ by Leo Lionni is a carefree and fun story!
It does not have a deep plot for the children to follow, but instead is the simple story of a mouse and his newfound friend.
This would be a good story to read in large group circle time just for fun or to have a learning activity to put with it.
This further demonstrates the importance of the illustrations for the telling of the story because while some children may not be able to read, they will still be able to get a sense of what is happening based on the pictures.
