https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462335.Paths_of_Glory
That can be forgiven though, as the book succeeds in putting the reader in the trench on the western front - and in the shoes of three soldiers in particular who are condemned to die in a most unjust fashion.
The pocket-book you gave me is in my hand.
They pour upon the pocket-book, make it more limp and ugly than ever.
It gives an explanation of the book's historical and moral background; also some history of WWI; the influence of Paths of Glory on Faulkner's A Fable; comparison to the movie; and some information and excerpts from Cobb's war diary.
Την ταινία την έχω δει μια φορά, νομίζω όταν ακόμα πήγαινα Λύκειο, ενώ το 2012 βρήκα την ελληνική έκδοση του βιβλίου, σ'ένα από τα γνωστά μου βιβλιοσαφάρι.
Α' Παγκόσμιος Πόλεμος, Δυτικό Μέτωπο, Γάλλοι εναντίον Γερμανών, χαρακώματα, αέρια, πτώματα παντού, ηλίθιοι αξιωματικοί και κακομοίρηδες φαντάροι, στρατηγικά λάθη, τιμωρίες, στρατιωτικές δίκες για γέλια και για κλάματα, δειλοί που παίρνουν το ένα μετάλλιο μετά το άλλο και γενναίοι που γίνονται τροφή για τα σκουλήκια, και άλλα κλασικά εικονογραφημένα.Δεν είναι βιβλίο για τις γιορτές, γιατί μπορεί να σου μαυρίσει την ψυχή με τον έναν ή τον άλλο τρόπο, όμως προσωπικά απόλαυσα την κάθε σελίδα.

Much better than the film, which was good in it's own right. However, the film tried to build up the character of Col. Dax in order to give the film a hero. The book is freed from this necessity. Also, the book doesn't feel the need to offer any small measures of justice or redemption. A powerful book.
111).The horrors of bureaucracy are introduced as one general orders an artillery officer to fire on his own trench lines because, in the opinion of the former, the regiment had refused to advance.
When the artillery officer refuses to do so without a signed, written order, he is relieved of command.
But, when the charge fails, the artillery officer who was relieved becomes a scapegoat for the general who ordered the barrage against his own troops but refused to sign for it (pp.
Every officer who has commanded troops in the line has been responsible for the fate of his men at one time or another.” (p.
Why do people have to go round trying to make it a noble thing by saying they are reproducing their species when all they're doing is having some fun?' 'Well, if they acted the way you talk, the race would die out.' 'All right, and who'd be the worse off for that?
'Do you think our parents would have had us if they had foreseen the things they were sentencing us to?'"As brilliant as this book is, I still have to place it on my the-movie-is-better shelf.
Having said that, Paths of Glory is a beautifully grim anti-war novel of World War One, much more powerful and enjoyable (and shorter) than Parade's End, which I recently tackled.
La storia è quanto di più paradigmatico si possa immaginare: il fallito assalto ad una (inespugnabile) fortificazione tedesca deve essere giustificato dall’ambizioso generale al comando del Corpo d’Armata, e la strada scelta è la più semplice e brutale: fucilare dei soldati accusandoli di viltà di fronte al nemico.“Sì – rispose il Generale – ma il punto è che gli uomini non sono andati avanti.
Avrebbero dovuto farsi uccidere fuori dalle trincee, non dentro”La scelta degli uomini da punire mostra la vera condanna dell’autore: non tanto – o non soltanto – della guerra, ma dei meccanismi del Potere in genere.
Published in 1935, five years after 'All Quiet on the Western Front,' Cobb's novel contained a cynicism that probably did not sit very well with Americans that were just recovering from that war only to contemplate the even greater, looming threat of Hitler and the Nazis.The narrator is omniscient and, God-like, enters the minds of multiple characters and renders the mental processes and rationalizations that each character tells himself, even the vainglorious commander who dreams up the insane idea of attacking an impregnable German fortification—the 'Pimple'.
War is ugly, random violence, showing no favor or discretion, and Cobb provides graphic descriptions of the wounded and dead.The army's hierarchy is clearly established during the early portion of the book, and its machinery goes into action during the second part.
Cobb had a somewhat embittered view of human nature and the armed forces that was clearly shared by other writers, victims of the same war:"My friend, you would not tell with such high zest To children ardent for some desperate glory,The old Lie; Dulce et Decorum est Pro patria mori." ~ Wilfred OwenExcellent book.
This book totally surprised me. I found it at a used book store and didn't know anything about it. Honestly one, if not the best, book about war and its absurdities that I have read. There was nothing extraneous or unnecessary. I can't believe it was written as long ago as it was. Totally recommend.
TheTrial + Catch 22+ The Things They Carried. This book sneaks up on you. As powerful a war book as I have ever read. If "Charge of the Light Brigade" were a whole book, this would be it.
Paths of Glory, written by Stanley Kubrick, Calder Willingham, Jim Thompson, based on the novel by Humphrey Cobb9 out of 10Notes and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/Paths of Glory is a…glorious film.The audiences have places it at number 58 on the list of top rated films, on IMDB and The New York Times has included it on its list of 1,000 Best Movies Ever Made:- http://www.listchallenges.com/new-yor...Stanley Kubr

Un libro imprescindible, nada más que añadir!
I just liked the cover!)I'm not giving away anything when I say this is "the story of three men executed to save a general's dignity." That's quoted from the first sentence on the back of the book.
In an author's note at the end, Cobb points to several reports (mostly in French) that detail actual occurrences that I can't believe actually happened.Part of the power of this story is that you know what's going to happen (though you're not sure exactly how) from the get-go.
You know that three men are going to be killed for absolutely no reason at all, and you have to watch it happen.
Ordine injuste, sefi neiertatori, umanism, razboi, curaj
In order to teach his troops a lesson, the commander issues an order that four soldiers are to be randomly chosen for a field court martial, from which a guilty verdict will obviously result in their execution.
There's plenty of blame to go around in this tale of military bureaucratic bungling, but the title is ironic: There is no real glory to be found; instead, waste and carnage abound.In 1957 Cobb's novel was made into a film directed by Stanley Kubrick and starring Kirk Douglas.
In addition, Kubrick made some alterations to the novel, which -- according to James H.
Paths of Glory is mainly about how the soldiers are dealing with the war and how awful the war is.
In one part of the book, two men [an officer and a soldier] were arguing about if some soldiers left the trench to charge the enemy trench or not.
The officer claimed they did not leave the trench and ordered 10 men from each section to be shot for cowardly actions.
The soldier claimed that the men were under very heavy fire and were not able to advance or it would be sure suicide.
This book quote obviously represented the period of World War I.
Believing that his men are in mutiny, a muckety-muck orders a commander to fire on his men, which he refuses.
As you might imagine, there is really not much of a defense with the court martial refusing to consider defense witnesses or to allow testimony of past bravery.I distinctly remember the more interesting elements of the novel being the manner in which each regiment selected a representative and the Kangaroo Court nature of the court martial.
I know this book was designed to teach us rather lofty ideals of justice and the sometimes absurdity of following orders, but mainly it just reinforced a belief I already had that war is a pretty awful thing.
(I'm sorry - I found this hard to write about without referring to the ending.
The humour in the dialogue and authorial voice perhaps makes the ending harder to take, as you struggle to deal with the awfulness of what just happened.
The characters are well portrayed, the sense of place is excellent and the satirical authorial voice makes it very clear where Cobb's sympathies lie.
The revisionist history of WWI that has started to take over the telling of the war had not yet reared its head when Cobb was writing and this is full of incompetent generals, unsympathetic commands and general stupidity.
A hopeless mission, an obstinate general, three blindsided soldiers.
PATHS OF GLORY is a powerful little novel about WWI and the futility of war.
After a botched attack on a hopeless section of trench, the general is looking to salvage his dignity (but none of the blame) and orders an execution.
The order, given in fury but received down through the ranks with silence, causes the men, from the officers carrying it out to the innocent soldiers waiting in prison, to rethink what it means to be brave and what it means to be unlucky in battle.
Though a novel, it's based on real incidents in the French army.
Read during a high school English class in conjuncture with "All Quiet on the Western Front." A somewhat haunting tale of a group of French soldiers from WW I that are selected at randomn to be sent before a firing squad for cowardice and refusing to follow orders.
In reality, their group had been place in a total no-win situation, and were being punished by generals who were looking to place blame for poor planning and horrible judgement by those in charge.
Taken from a true story.
A story that truly sticks with you.
Sadly, turned into a poor movie by Stanley Kubrick.
Skip the movie....read the book.
An amazing book, and like many books written in the past, its relevance remains pertinent in the present. This book reminded me a great deal of another fantastic novel that poignantly exposed the absurdity of militarised minds, Joseph Heller's, Catch-22; however, where Heller utilised dark, piercing humour, Cobb managed to show the absurdity without a single joke or clever characterisation; in the end, both authors, through their talents managed to come to the same frightening conclusion, that while war is indeed awful, the dark, insane, ridiculous places it pushes people toward could be considered far worse.
"...instinct which impels men to talk themselves out of a situation by talking themselves into it." (158)I personally fell prey to this psychological drive as I finished up Paths of Glory.
Having not seen Stanley Kubrick's movie of the same title, I expected a novel akin to Catch-22 or All Quiet on the Western Front.
Instead, I was shocked into a devastating tale of absurd authoritarian zeal to conceal they're own mistakes by taking as victims those below them sworn to abide by their orders.An incredibly haunting tale that strikes me as a precautionary tale not just against war, but against arbitrary rules and swearing to serve those in obscene displays of mock authority.
Lee toda la reseña aquí: https://goo.gl/uzZnMN La novela nos ofrece diferentes puntos de vista de la catástrofe que se avecina: desde los altos mandos que sobrellevan la presión por conseguir éxitos, hasta el soldado raso que se emborracha para poder aguantar el horror un día más.
La prosa de Cobb, descriptiva y pausada en los primeros compases del libro, coge ímpetu a mitad de la historia para brindarnos ágilmente un final que aunque el lector anticipa, nunca se está preparado del todo para leerlo.
Como los mismos soldados, que tampoco lo creían posible.
I've no doubt that Cobb's work stands alongside ReMarque's "All Quiet on the Western Front" as one of the great anti-war novels of all time. But Cobb brings a very American viewpoint to the trenches as he rails against the arrogance, corruption, and stupidity of authority. He rages not against the machine of war, but against the man made organizations that wage it and in particular against those that rise to lead them.He's no literary master, but he paints powerful pictures and brings to life a cast of characters for readers to care about, before they are torn from us.
This book really shows the horror of war. The author Humphrey Cobb served for Canada in World War I. Humphrey was gassed and wounded in the war and after decided to write a book that describes the ubsertity and terrors or war. Paths of glory is about First-class private Langlois, duval and joffre. Three men at war, Paths of Glory demonstrates what military soldiers have to go through. But this book focuses on the story of these three men. And really teaches you the true meaning of sacrifice and honour.
Titolo originale: Paths of GloryAutore: Humphrey Cobb (1899-1944)Pagine: 231Tipologia: RomanzoScritto nel 1935 da H.Cobb, che militò nell'esercito canadese durante la Grande Guerra, è ispirato a fatti realmente accaduti sul fronte occidentale.Combina mirabilmente il realismo del diario di guerra al senso kafkiano dell'allegoria.Il film di Stanley Kubrick (1928-1999) del 1957, pur essendo uno dei migliori sulla Grande Guerra, non ha potuto riportare molte pagine straordinarie di questo libro, che consiglio vivamente di leggere.
I've seen the movie a few times, and it still holds up. The book is noticeably different, but I can say that the movie's changes are expected for a movie. The book, too packs the same wallop, even though the story comes across from a different vantage point. World War I is the perfect setting for describing the horrors of war, and this book does a marvelous job of it.
It might take a little while before you get into the story and narrative style. The overall story is harrowing, but it is lightened Cobb's dry satirical style and his characters, mostly in the form of disillusioned and desensitised soldiers. I recommend reading the introduction by James H. Meredith which sets the historical context and explores some of the themes.
Horrid, sad, and true story of soldiers being treated unfairly [understatement] in the French forces. The people with whom we should be warring are always so insulated by innocents.
