https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64430.Bill_the_Galactic_Hero
I love this book. He walks up to Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers and slaps a cream pie in its face. Then he kicks it in the balls and stands back to admire the effect, before setting to work on Isaac Asimov's Foundation. They both had it coming :)
Bill je "rođen glup, ali brzo uči", ima dvije desne ruke i radnja se za njega lijepi kao med za kruh.
Čak se i referira u dijelovima na Kvaku jer Harrison također pravi logičku petlju iz koje vojnik ne može izaći.
Također, netko to voli ali ja ne volim, smeta mi obraćenje Harrisona čitatelju.
Ok, znam da je knjiga, ali me to izbaci iz takta i doslovno popizdim kada mi netko počne pisati: A sada dragi čitaoče, neću te zamarati s tim i tim...
Toliko mi je bila OK, da sigurno neću uzeti čitati ostale nastavke jer me uopće, ali uopće ne zanimaju.
There was a death in my family this week, so reading a funny sci-fi book was both a good and bad idea.
Harry Harrison's book is not so much an anti-war manifesto as it is an anti-ridiculousness manifesto.
Harrison just happens to recognize that war, bureaucracy, government, and all those other things that are so much a part of homo sapien social development are completely ridiculous.
Bill the Galactic Hero is an excellent example of sixties dissent and sci-fi satire, and if I'd read it at another time it might have become a favourite.
S jedne strane dosta ozbiljna i na momente surova a sa druge strane parodija i satira na vojsku i besmisao ratova. Nije lose mada blago depresivno.
I once met a woman in a bookstore who was in the process of buying Harry Harrison's 1965 classic "Bill, the Galactic Hero." She told me that she'd read it many times already, and that it was the funniest book ever.
With so many incidents to cram into the book's short length, many of them seem a bit rushed, and characters come and go without leaving much of an impression.
But getting back to that woman in the bookstore...IS this the funniest book that I've ever read?
Smiješna, zabavna i nasilna satira koja bezobrazno gađa u prepone i bespoštedno kritizira društvo, vojsku i birokraciju. Nivo apsurda je doveden do savršenstva, miješajući uvrnutu logiku, crni humor i najljigavije likove ikad stavljene na papir. Svakih par rečenica Harrison plasira novu urnebesnu situaciju, a blesavi manijakalni svijet u kojem glavni junak Bill nastoji preživjeti je istovremeno zastrašujuć i smiješan. Ovo izdanje (Narodna Knjiga, 1987) je puno grešaka i poluprožvakanih rečenica, ali na sreću nije mi moglo ubiti doživljaj ovog zabavnog djela.
Estas son las aventuras de Bill, un campesino que es reclutado a la fuerza por el ejército imperial, tras esto tenemos la típica comedia disfrazada de libro de ciencia ficción militar, desgraciadamente el humor de Harry Harrison no termina de ser para mí, me saca alguna sonrisa pero poco más.
Vzadu na prebale tejto knihy je napísané:" Zkrátka nejvtipnější SF kniha, jaká kdy byla napsána.
Terry Pratchett".
Čo už ale zabudli napísať je, že Terry to nehovoril o Billovi, ale pravdepodobne niekde v krčme pri pive popisoval nejakú zo svojich kníh.
Alebo to bolo z čias jeho feťáckych úletov (aj keď si neviem predstaviť drogu, ktorá by zvýšila úroveň humoru tejto knihy).
Potom putovala na WC, že reku "one page at a time", ale keďže začala narúšať aj Feng Šuhaj môjho vylučovania tak som to vzdal.
Rád by som aspoň naznačil dejovú líniu, ale to sa nedá.
Joe Haldeman's "The Forever War" was an unforgettable novel that tried to capture the absurdity of war while still being respectful of the military.
It's a short novel, and Bill isn't a very bright or memorable character---he's kind of a cipher-like Everyman to which any and every awful thing that can happen, does.The summary: Bill is a farmer on a farm planet who gets "drafted" (more like kidnapped) by the Space Troopers to fight in the Space Emperor's battle with the Chingers, an alien race of seven-foot tall reptiles with four arms who want to eat humans.
Η πρώτη μου επαφή με αυτόν τον κλασικό και πολύ γνωστό συγγραφέα επιστημονικής φαντασίας, που δυστυχώς στην Ελλάδα δεν του δόθηκε και τόση προσοχή όσο έπρεπε, τόσα καλά και κλασικά βιβλία έχει γράψει, μόνο δυο έχουν μεταφραστεί, το ένα ακριβούτσικο και το άλλο σπάνιο πλέον.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο είναι από τα πιο αστεία και σατιρικά πολεμικά βιβλία που έχω διαβάσει, σατιρίζει τον πόλεμο, την στρατιωτική και μη γραφειοκρατία, τις κυβερνήσεις και άλλα πολλά.
Πιθανό αυτό, δεν το έχω έχω διαβάσει ακόμα, αλλά σίγουρα σατιρίζει όλη αυτή την στρατιωτική/πολεμική παράνοια.
Mnogo sam se smejao citajuci ovu knjigu, tezak sarkazam i cinizam provejava na mnogo mestaKako mi je ruka, Dok?
— kriknu Bil užasnuto.Druga ruka, koju sam zašio.
Brod je imao preko 42 procentagubitaka, i stvarno sam imao da sečem, i da tranširam, i da zašivam, kad ti kažem.Poslednji zavoj spade i trupaši uzdahnuše od uživanja.Hej, pa to je moćno fina ruka!Izvedi nešto njome.I prokleto zgodan šav tamo pri ramenu, vidi kako su uredni bodovi!I mišićava isto, i dugačka, ne kao ona bedna kratka što mu je sa druge strane.Duža i tamnija, silna boja kože!To je Tembova ruka!
— kriknu Bil.
My rating: ★★★★
Que síííííííííí, que ya lo se, que es una parida de libro, vaaaaaale ...
pero me partí el eje cuando lo leí en hace 15 añitos de nada.Parodia del héroe cachas y simple.
Parodia del militarismo.
Parodia de los extraterrestres.
(Pirx sí me gusta)Me leí toda la saga de Bill, aunque una vez pasada la originalidad de esta primera entrega los demás no aportan nada.(comento ahora este libro porque me ha caído en la mano al mover otros libros de las estanterías de mi amada biblioteca de CF)
I read this when I was too young to get the humor of the hapless dung farmer Bill, who is drafted, mutilated, and turned into a public "hero" in an interstellar war with lizard aliens. I suppose it is dark, sardonic satire of the military and government and propaganda. But at the time I just thought it was nastier and nastier, sort of like "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Universe" with all of the likeable characters and charm removed.Perhaps I shall read this again in memory of Harrison, who died yesterday.
I'm not going to waste your time here, this is billed as a humourous science fiction book and I don't recall laughing out loud once. Could be my sense of humour, it's a little suspect, but without the laughs this is only an OK book.
This book is about Hippies vs. Commie haters. then a cream pie gets thrown in someone's face
Ένα βιβλίο με πολύ χιούμορ και περιπέτεια, εμπνευσμένο από τον πόλεμο του Βιετνάμ... Διαβάστε το
This book was just a hoot from start to finish.
What is most interesting however is both the satirical and dystopian aspect of the book.
Harrison takes a bite out of everyone in the book, the hawks and the doves, the officers and the enlisted men, the government bureaucrats and the dumb joes just doing their duty, and probably some of the pulp sci fi he saw in his day.The dystopian aspect I found is that once Bill learns the "ropes" of one of his predicaments, whether it be a solider recruit, Fuse Tender military specialty, a garbage "G-Man", or revolutionary turned double-spy, he is never allowed to become comfortable.
É, de facto, uma descrição que assenta como uma luva a este livro, que também não tem medo de ironizar com os chavões da ficção de terror.
As desventuras de Bill, um camponês proveniente de um planeta provinciano que se vê induzido a prestar serviço nas gloriosas forças do império são uma sátira destravada à importância inflada de valor militar, sentido de dever e patriotismo que caracteriza a FC militarista.
É também toda uma sátira à FC como género, às suas estruturas narrativas, conceitos, temas e tipos de prosa.
Bill era um jovem que apenas ambicionava dedicar-se á agricultura num pedaço de terra, perto da aldeia onde vivia pacatamente com a sua mãe, irmão e um robot- mula, em Phigerinadon Il, planeta membro de um grande império galáctico, que alguns supunham ter tido origem num velho e decrépito mundo conhecido como Terra, localizado à beira da galáxia.Certo dia a sua vida mudou radicalmente.Num dia de intenso calor, enquanto observava o traseiro, cor de açúcar de Inga-Maria Calyphigia, que se banhava no rio, acabou por ser recrutado, sem saber bem como, pelas forças armadas que serviam o Imperador.Começou aqui um percurso militar, que o arrastou pelo espaço à procura do inimigo, detectando os seus agentes infiltrados, entre os colegas, e combatendo-o.
And further weird stuff, such as the capital planet, Helior, that's covered with gold-tinted aluminum so it'll look like gold, and which is such a three-dimensional maze that when Bill loses his (paper) floor plan, it takes him eight days to get back to his billet - and then there are more absurd complications.
And then there's the bit on Helior where there are so many spies in the "revolutionary movement" that in fact they're all spies (including Bill), though I kind of saw that coming.
Kind of a weird cross between Starship Troopers and Catch-22.
The problem is, it all plays out in a very “in your face” way, leaving almost everyone as a throwaway caricature.
The early part at the army is very fun and well-planned out, as everything seems to progress in an organic way.
Latter characters also don’t give you as much reason to care about, and they are usually removed from the plot too fast for you to get to like them.
Overall, a good read with a humorous look on propaganda and corruption, but lacks the subtlety of the more famous satires ala Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.
Pretty entertaining and a poignant anti-draft (anti-government compulsion) novel.
While not as outright hilarious or as witty as Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Bill, the Galactic Hero draws its humor and wit mainly from a "poor boy get's stuck in the army" story that never felt heavy-handed or burdensome or downright melodramatic like many more 'famous' anti-war novels.
For that reason alone, I think this puts it further ahead of many other so called anti-war novels to show the best of what science fiction can be, even as it plays with the most cliched and recognizable scifi tropes.
En cuanto a personajes, Bill es incoherente entre la primera y la segunda parte.
A alguien a quien le tratan tan mal en la primera parte no puede sentirse tan especial en la segunda.
Pero lo cierto es que me esperaba mucho más humor, cuando lo que me he encontrado es una comedia satírica, en el sentido más basto del término.
Es un humor basto, que se pierde si no has tenido la suerte de leerte los libros de ciencia-ficción a los que hace referencia implícita.
And that has to mean something.When I`ve first read this book, which came more than two and a half decades ago, I saw it as a satirical, a damn humorous vision of hierarchy, politics, and bloody world as it is.Boy, did I laugh!I took it with me when I was drafted, right after NATO wiped out my country.
Luckily it was thin enough for him to start reading it right away.Did I say that not a week after, most of the officers had a copy, or a copy of a copy of a copy...And I`ve never seen my book again.Now, I still read it sometimes.I still laugh a lot.And just sometimes, shed a tear.
I found this book significantly less humorous than the one-liners put into the title character's mouth in R.G. Wingfield's A Touch of Frost, which I read recently.
One of the problems is Bill is an unfocused character.
At the start he's a simpleton, then he becomes considerably more savvy in a short time, but I didn't see any transition.
He initially reminded me of Candide (from a book which is also much funnier), but in a short time he didn't remind me of anyone.
A pleasant enough light read, with scenes that you recognize as humorous but you don't laugh that much.
I would describe it as Terry Pratchett in space.Moreover, it is supposed to be a parody of Heinlein's "Starship Troopers" which is itself a critic to militarism, but I think Bill is better as a critic than Heinlein's original work.
Apparently, this was written by Harrison as a satirical "piss-take" on Starship Troopers - I'm in!!
My paperback edition is small and easy to carry so this became my hospital waiting room book during a series of appointments I took my mum to.
I know Harry Harrison is huge, and has written dozens of books and this particular one sparked a whole series of Bill books but I didn’t enjoy it much.
Had the character already been established they might have made an interesting series of short stories but as an introduction to a character that features in many other later books, I’m afraid I was left a little underwhelmed and disappointed.
Years ago, as a Uni student with a library card, I read absolutely every book that Harry Harrison wrote.
couldn't quite believe it.The reason is because Bill the Galactic Hero is the greatest space hero that there ever was.
The world that Harry Harrison created was ridiculous and believable all at once.
That could be because my reading has matured, because I already knew the story, because I was a little less able to let go of the lameness of the humour.But if you've never read Bill the Galactic Hero, don't let me stop you.
