https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2163998.I_Have_a_Dream_Letter_from_Birmingham_Jail

Although this is a perfect day to read these inspiring words of Martin Luther King, Jr., any day will work. Take a couple of hours and discover one of the greatest American history lessons ever offered.
Brilliant free BBC audio of "I Have A Dream" read by Maya Angelou, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, Ndileka Mandela (granddaughter of Nelson Mandela), Stevie Wonder, Doreen Lawrence (mother of murdered British teenager Stephen Lawrence), Malala Yousafzai (sixteen-year-old student from Swat in Pakistan, shot by the Taliban for going to school), and a few others.Each reader seemed to have read a passage personally relevant to them, bringing new meaning to MLK's eloquent words from his impassioned speech delivered to hundreds of thousands of people in Washington 50 years ago, the anniversary of which was yesterday (28th August 2013).1st read: 29th Aug 2013 of BBC audio2nd read: 9th Sep 2013 of Paperback
This was incredible full of descriptive speech and metaphors.
Dr. King was such and incredible speaker and influencer.
I think there is not an error I can place on the entirety of this speech.Sadly, nearly three score later so much is still to be done and freedom to be grasped.
"This is the beacon of light for (those) who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice" "One hundred years later the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast oceanof material prosperity." He improvised much of this.
The eloquence of Martin Luther King Jr. is stunning, and there's no finer showcase of his gift with words than "Letter From Burmingham Jail" and the "I Have a Dream" speech.
From a jail cell in Alabama, King stands up for the right of African-Americans to demand equality in a country that has promised this gift to all its citizens.
His message was powerful in the 1960's, but it is no less relevant today.
The words are beautiful, the message is priceless, and the man is a legend.
Judging these speeches by historical impact, they were clearly effective. I Have a Dream probably ages better, and was always intended for a broader public audience, but I think Letter from a Birmingham Jail was more effective in dividing opposition and trying to cleave off the "white moderates" from supporting law and order and instead supporting protests.
Loved it, beautifully written. But also has me considering how we serve in ministry. Never wanting to be a hindrance and praying that we are not.
Letter from a Birmingham Jail is amazing.
When I read it for the first time for a class in college I sort of paced around my dorm room afterward, unsure of how to process how beautiful it was.
King's "I Have a Dream" speech is something all school children are familiar with, but Letter from a Birmingham jail is so distinctly American it should be taught in school as well.
Every once and a while I read or see or hear something (Priscilla Mullens, in The Courtship of Miles Standish, telling John Alden to speak for himself!
"I Have a Dream": http://www.americanrhetoric.com/speec...One of the greatest, if not the greatest, speeches ever written or spoken. The diction, the rhetorical approach, the entirety of the speech is beautiful. Go listen, as no one can do it more justice than the man himself."Letter from Birmingham Jail": http://mlk-kpp01.stanford.edu/index.p...A great tool for literary and rhetorical analysis. It is poignant and damning to the men it is directed. It uses all of the tools of persuasive writing and it does it well. The only problem is its length, which Dr. King addresses at the end.
Martin Luther King is literally a fave. Both of these works are really short, but they are so impactful and everyone should read them at one point.
It's incredible that Martin Luther King's letter and speech were written in 1963, a mere 15 years before I was born.
That means either equal rights for black people were secured only recently (my preferred position) or I am getting old.The letter is about 35 pages and composed by King in his jail cell where there is nothing else to do but "write long letters, think long thoughts, and pray long prayers".
If he did not embody such clarity of thought and argument, eloquence, and courage to act on his convictions in the face of grave personal consequences, we might today still be living in a segregated, unjust society.
This should be required reading for all school children because it is part of the reason America is the country it is today.
That was a black-owned business where he was assassinated.This book exposes more of the truth of the Civil Rights struggle, it was not all peaches and cream.
He gave his life, not for black people, he gave his life to ensure America would strive to live up to the ideals set forth by our constitution not be led astray by the cancer of racism.
Fue encarcelado y amenazado tantas veces, que es increíble en estos tiempos, pensar que un ser humano sea tan fuerte en sus convicciones, tan firme en su lucha, como para seguir adelante sorteando todas esas barreras que a cualquiera limitarían.Tal cual como se menciona en el prólogo, ojalá más mexicanos leyeran este libro, ojalá llegara a manos de personas que pudieran ser inspiradas, que cambiara la mentalidad de todos nosotros, los mexicanos que aunque nos damos cuenta de las injusticias que hay, ya no solo en el mundo, sino en nuestro país, en nuestros estados; y que a pesar de saberlo, decidimos mirar hacía otro lado y permanecer conformes con nuestro estilo de vida.
Wow this is amazing!
After spending the majority of my 18 years of life in Alabama I’m glad that I finally read this.
MLK is such a powerful writer and speaker!
His points are both emotional and logical.
We cannot turn back...We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality.”That is my hope for the South as well.
That we do not turn back.
I am thankful for leaders like MLK who catalyzed this journey and our movement towards love and brotherhood between all people.
We all have heard/read "I Have A Dream" but what I wish people, especially nowadays, would focus on, is MLK's Letter from Birmingham Jail.
Whenever someone says "yeah but what's happening is not OUR America or something like that, I remind them of this document.
To me, it's still actual, it could have been written yesterday, this morning, and that's the scariest part.
Hope belongs where the fight is, and where the voices get loud.
America hasn't taken a dark turn in the recent years, it has been like this for decades, centuries.
May this letter find you, and open your eyes.
One of the most important things anyone can ever read. I've read the "I have a dream" speech before, but not the Letter, which was downright mind-blowing - and inconceivable how all that was happening just a few decades ago...Despite its obsolete christian references, this should be a text taught in schools worldwide. Makes one wonder what the state of the world would be now if this letter had been read by every person on earth.
I should have read these two documents much earlier in my life.
Brief, not perfect, nor written by a perfect man, but powerful. Makes a man want to Matthew 22:39.
Rereading for Dr. King holiday. "Will we be extremists for hate or for love?"
We need more of King's non-violent approach in today's world.
A very well-educated, well-spoken man.
This little book is a combination of Martin Luther King Jr.'s "I Have a Dream" speech and his "Letter from Birmingham Jail." I was much more aware of his "I Have a Dream" having heard or seen parts of it quoted over the years.
I was less familiar with the "Letter from Birmingham Jail." I had heard it referenced, but never to the degree of "I Have a Dream." Neither of these works are very long to read through, but both are fantastic in their own right."I Have a Dream," is a more positive work that describes the dream of Martin Luther King Jr. for all people to be treated equally regardless of the color of ones skin.
An inspiring speech that tells the progress made from the years of slavery to a life of equality for all African Americans by Martin Luther King Jr. Students will become more aware of the discrimination that occurred during a time of hatred between blacks and whites.
Martin Luther King Jr said to not be discourage by the hatred of many, but continue to soar and not wallow in despair.
It was a speech that impacted everyone and with persistence and progress life is now more accepting.
They get to feel the real emotion of Martin Luther King Jr. and his fight to bring equality to everyone.
"Sabemos por una dolorosa experiencia que la libertad nunca la concede voluntariamente el opresor.
Tiene que ser exigida por el oprimido".
"La segregación, para valernos de la terminología del filósofo judío Martín Buber, sustituye la relación 'yo-tú' por una relación 'yo-ello', y acaba relegando a las personas a la condición de cosas".
"Estoy convencido de que el universo está sometido al control de un propósito de amor, y de que, en la lucha por el derecho, el hombre tiene una compañía cósmica".
Unbelievable!!
I think this should be a required reading in high school.
It is so well written, it make you want to start a protest right now.
Its application today is still releavant.
Really it is so moving.
The actually letter is about 11 pages.
I read the letter that was written to him by the clergymen first, which was a great introduction on the why's and the direct question/answers in the text.
Although this was specifically written in response to the letter is was used as his national platform.
Fantastic.
You hear portions of the speech every year, but try reading the thing out loud in its entirety to gain a fresh appreciation for its message and an ear more attuned to its rhythms and diction.
Beautiful.
His letter is compelling for any time, and pertinent especially to our tendencies toward comfort and uphold in the status quo.
Something he pointed out about time was instructive...time never accomplishes anything, it only marks effort for good or evil to more or less efficient degree, and unless good men get busy, bad schemes make a rampant use of a very short amount of time.
Read a studio recording of I Have A Dream, provided by the BBC and featuring some of the more noteworthy human rights spokespeople around the world, from Joan Baez to the Dalai Lama, from Stevie Wonder to Doreen Lawrence, mother of a teenager murdered by bigots in 1993.Of course the words to MLK's speech pervade Western political and social rhetoric, and this audio version helped bring out the social and geographical context in which the movement was first active, and demonstrated why it was needed then, and it still needed now.
Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech and his letter written from Birmingham jail are important historical documents that are worthwhile to read.  Not only are these documents important historically, King is a master of rhetoric.  Together these two documents only cover 44 pages, and this version has notes that help explain his references to people from the past.  This is definitely recommended reading.  The reason I didn't give it more stars is simply a measure of my enjoyment.  While I found both readings valuable, I was not particularly moved by either of them. Cautions: none.
Required reading. Full text of the landmark "I Have a Dream" speech (like most people, I'd only heard the last few minutes of his speech) as well as the beautifully phrased and brilliantly argued open "Letter from Birmingham Jail," which I'd heard about but never read. Social justice activists can study King's philosophy and writers, his rhythm and wordplay.
Great historical documents capturing the perspective of the time and the rationale used by Dr. King for both his movement and to judge law. Provides a nice contrast to Justice Holmes's arguments surrounding moral law.
