https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1645179.A_Rose_for_Ecclesiastes
It's free online (in text and audio form) here at EscapePod. Review first posted on Fantasy Literature:In this classic and much-anthologized 1963 story of finding an ancient civilization on Mars, Gallinger, a brilliant linguist and poet with an abrasive personality, is part of an Earth mission to study the humanoid Martian natives.
As he studies their ancient texts, tutored by M’Cwyie, the ancient Martian matriarch, and becomes acquainted with Braxa, an attractive and gifted temple dancer, he begins to understand both the past event that has led to the decline of Martian society and their religious belief that underscores and promotes their fatalistic outlook.
This short story often considered to be the best one from Zelazny - and he wrote plenty of good ones.
The story itself can be read (or heard) for free and legally from the following link: http://escapepod.org/2014/02/28/ep437...It only took me about 20 minutes to reread it, but it would take more time than that during the first read.
The main character Gallinger is not a nice guy and is often called asshole.
It takes skill to create such an unsympathetic realistic character and then move the reader to his side in a short story.
Disclaimer: I read this book wrong. Don't believe me? Ask Evgeny. He read the book right (of course) and will be more than happy to demonstrate how erroneous my erroneous judgment is.Okay. So. Stuff. Fish. Shrimp (view spoiler)[don't ask (hide spoiler)]. This short story is said to be one of Zelazny's best (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]. This scientifically proven fact scientifically (and quite obviously) proves my once glorious intellect is now irremediably and beautifully decrepit, and no lon
This short story is said to be one of Zelazny's best (view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)].
I feel you, George.Not only am I innocent and pure as a newborn shrimp in this matter, but I also have several very valid excuses to justify my unfounded rating for this story:① I can't stand don't like classic SF from the 60s (view spoiler)[or the 40s or the 50s or the 70s or the…Get it?
I only read this because a water gun was being held to my lovely little head.② I'm allergic to stuff that happens on bloody shrimping Mars.
Kind of convoluted, but I agreed with a lot of what he said about Zelazny's writing.The Furies 1965 novelette by Zelazny featuring Sandor Sandor, Benedick Benedict and Lynx Links, has always been my favorite story in this collection.
He didn't win & later decided there wasn't any money in it, but used some of those poems in this story.The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth 1965 novelette by ZelaznyThis is set on Venus as the last story is set on Mars.
'Rose' also appears in his collection "The Lamps of His Mouth, The Doors of His Face" as well as in a couple of other anthologies.My favorite story in the collection is "The Furies".
It's been five decades since these four stories first appeared, but they seem just as fresh and innovative today as they did then. "A Rose for Ecclesiastes" and "The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth" are undisputed classics, widely known and often reprinted. "The Furies" and one of my personal favorites, "The Graveyard Heart," are also brilliant pieces, very thought provoking and representative of the best work that's ever appeared in the field. This edition also includes a nice introduction from Theodore Sturgeon.
It's set in a near-future world where cryogenic technology has been perfected to the point where people can easily be frozen and revived at will.
The most exclusive social group in the world is the Party Set. Members stay frozen most of the time and only come alive one or two days a year, when they attend fabulous parties.
It is extremely difficult to become a member of Party Set. Not only do you have to be very rich, you must also be approved by the Set's autocratic and willful leader, the Doyenne.Alvin, a young engineer, meets the beautiful Leota and instantly falls in love with her.
It is the hubris of rationalism to always attack the prophet, the mystic, the god.
It is our blasphemy which has made us great, and will sustain us, and which the gods secretly admire in us.--All the truly sacred names of God are blasphemous things to speak.The titular story was rather moving, akin to Babel-17.
A polyglot poet goes to Mars, where the natives are gracefully dying out.
There's something to bed said for dying empires and the Gothic.
The other three pieces offered promise but appeared stilted.
Unfortunately they appear to be but clay and wire models upon examination.
That ending...punch in the gut. I need to read more by this author. So good. 5, I am in awe, stars.
Excellent book. One of the very few by Zelazny I hadn't read. Gallinger, is a character I can identify with.
Review and rating for "A Rose for Ecclesiastes" (1963), the Hugo-nominated novelette that is Zelazny's masterwork, I think. In a recent reread, I was pleasantly surprised at how well the story held up. If you've never read it, well, you should. Zelazny's intensely Romantic vision of a Mars that never was. Free copy online at http://escapepod.org/2014/02/28/ep437... (text and audio).If you come across this particular collection (US title "Four for Tomorrow"), "The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth" (1965), a lively retro-Venus story, is also first-rate.

This book was titled "A Rose for Ecclesiastes" in the U.K.
& both editions contain the same 4 stories.The title story (in the U.K.) is one of his most famous stories & rightfully so.
It's another story set on a fictional Mars, with a dying Martian race & Earthmen to study them.
'Rose' also appears in his collection "The Lamps of His Mouth, The Doors of His Face" as well as in a couple of other anthologies.My favorite story in the collection is "The Furies".
Imagine the Greek Furies in the far future when man is on many planets.Well worth reading.
Which is: nihilistic philosophy from the book Kohelet, poetry and finer arts making up a perfect sample for the topic about Mars dying.I always think that Zelazny is at his best when he pairs cynicism with tragedy: Arrogant poet Gallagher from Earth falls in love with a dancer from the fading Martians.
He fulfills their direst prophecies without knowing about them.No wonder this story leveraged his success as an author back in 1963.
Nominated for the Hugo in 1964, SFWA voted for place 6 on the eternal best-of-list.Zelazny worked together with authors like Delany, Disch or Ellison as the U.S. extension of British New Wave (Ballard, Aldiss, Moorcock).
Four For Tomorrow by Roger Zelazny-The Furies(novelette) This story takes a page from Cordwainer Smith and delves into space opera with a feverish nuance and an almost Shakespearean zest for language and style.
The Doors of His Face, The Lamps of His Mouth(novelette)- Nebula Winner about hunting monstrous fish on Venus, which sounds absurd but really works.
A Rose For Ecclesiastes(novelette)-On Mars, a human linguist( and, of course, poet) is tasked with translating ancient Martian religious documents with unexpected and tumultuous results.If you haven't read Zelazny, or you've just read about Amber, this is a great introduction to his other works.
Сборник с четири произведения на Залезни (както бе преименуван от лелката, продаваща стари книги :)!Фуриите - перфектното доказателство на тезата на Теодор Стърджън, изградена в прекрасния му предговор.
Тезите във въпросния са няколко - конкретната е, че дедо Роджър всъщност пише притчи.Сърцето на гробищата - "Спящата красавица" на няколко литра стероиди, и поставен във футуристична обстановка.
Може би леко превъзнесен от Стърджън, не го намирам за "най-великият дар от фантастиката за литературата"...
написан е с прекрасни думи, но темпото е леко мудно.Вратите на лицето му, лампите на устата му - нотки на Капитан Немо с щипка льобоф, че и повече, даже!Роза за Еклисиаста - много класен разказ за поет-човек залязващата марсианска цивилизация!
The Doors of His Face, the Lamps of His Mouth -  2/5A Rose for Ecclesiastes 1963 - 3/5The Furies 1965 - 3/5The Graveyard Heart - 4/5
На кратко:Фуриите:Стърджън - Зелазни ви кара да му повярвате до край и си тръгва, без изобщо да се е уморил, като ви оставя задъхани със сюжета в ръка.Аз - Писана по време на разгара на виетнамската война, историята се развива в едно бъдеще, в което човечеството е завладяло космоса и в вечната борба за ресурси, прави, това което може най-добре - унищожава, поробва и потиска чужди раси и им изпомпва ресурса, но има един, който е обявил война на алчните и с терористични прийоми се бори с тях.
Има само човеци.Сърцето на гробищата:Стърджън - Най-великият дар, поднесен от фантастиката на литературата.
Four stories. Two good, two so-so.Two are fairly straight-forward adventure stories, but something about the style with which they are told, a certain pretentiousness, gives the impression that the author thinks they're something more.The other two contain more food for thought. "The Graveyard Heart" has an intriguing premise and a langourous style suitable to the subject matter, while "A Rose For Ecclesiastes", while not free of pretension, ends up being quite moving, and feels like a kind of response/companion piece to Ray Bradbury's Martian Chronicles.
A pretty forgetable collection of sci-fi stories. The final one, which gave the book its title, is the most interesting one, but it feels hurried - a poet tries to convince the Martians to survive, with a twist at the end. It might have worked better in a longer form, maybe as a novel.
Christopher Bianchi is a phantom and this ebook is pirated. Amazon is not cooperating. Please don't buy and please report piracy.
This is a book of four classic stories by famed sci-fi author Roger Zelazny (effusive introduction by Theodore Sturgeon), representative of his work in the mid- and late 1960s.
It was a real roller coaster ride for me, since I really liked the first and third stories, didn't care for the second one much at all, and was so-so about the fourth one.
Disclaimer: I have only read A Rose for Ecclesiastes and The Doors of His Face, the Lamp.
Roger Zelazny's Chronicles of Amber were, and continue to be to this day, one of my all-time favourite series.
I've been meaning to get acquainted with his short story collections for quite some time, and, as I read Neil Gaiman's "The view from the cheap seats", I discovered 'A rose for Ecclesiastes'.
'Just one short story', I thought, 'how long could it take?'Once I finished, more than an hour had flown by, without my so much as noticing.
With Zelazny, that's the norm, and he does not disappoint.
Super classic sci-fi, so you probably know if you want to read it.
Like a lot of sci-fi of the era, it's prescient and farsighted in some ways and...
He reminds me a lot of Steven Brust, although the influence, if any, obviously goes in the other direction.
I don't know if this is super hard sci-fi - if that's your thing - I didn't particularly think that these stories had to be written as science fiction.
I will also say that pretty much every character is male, and might have walked off the set of Mad Men. Like I said, prescient in some ways but not in others.
Three of the four stories in this volume (3 novelettes, 1 novella) were decent, but I didn't particularly care for The Furies. Zelazny's language is definitely interesting to read and the poetic-lean is much stronger in these stories than in his longer works like Amber and Lord of Light. At times the freeness of the language does impair an understanding of what's actually going on though. It's always interesting to see another side of an author and get a sense of their evolution or simply the variation in their style but I doubt I'll go back to this collection.
Once you get past the rather weak opener, 'The Furies', Four for Tomorrow is a lovely, almost impressionistic group of sci-fi stories that feel sad and soft and beaten-down. If you think sci-fi is all just space operas and blaster battles, give these tales a read.
Interesting read, some discernment required.
Loved A Rose for Ecclesiastes, but the others were rather confusing
this review is just for the story mentioned. Its ok. Not my favorite by him. Not sure why it is except for the semi crushing feeling at the end people must romanticize.
Meg found a first edition on a whim, which is a good thing since Zelazny didn't write about space marines; it's unlikely I'd have ever read it on my own.As the title states, there are 4 short stories:The Furies - So often about soldiers you hear that they fight for each other, caring little about the politics which led to this struggle.
Since the war in Vietnam was raging at the time Zelazny wrote this, I'm not surprised by how closely it made me think of the US occupation of Iraq.The Graveyard Heart - This dude pines for a woman who is so obviously not into him but she inevitably succumbs to his non-stop harassment.
Each also seems to be a response to an earlier theme in (speculative) literature.I'm not sure how I feel about THE FURIES.
Regardless, it sure was pretty.For the last two, it’s an interesting stylistic choice to set these on Venus and Mars in the pulp era tradition of those places being perfectly inhabitable worlds full of dinosaurs and other races.
I suspect that in the pulp era, that the relationship would be reconciled by the culmination of the action, rather than the give-and-take of power.
A ROSE FOR ECCLESIASTES subverts the pulp era style even more.
