https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/500740.Power_Without_Glory
European Australia has always been a hard land.
With communities originally based on convict labour, it seems as though a certain amount of violence came to be taken almost for granted.
And perhaps all Australia, or those who remember this particular episode (and its ongoing media life through film and television) did well to note what sort of man lay behind the mask.Australia has taken a long time to come out of this period of its history, when personal might could be displayed almost with impunity, even in public affairs.
Finish date: 04 December 2017Genre: roman à clefRating: BReview: Frank Hardy wanted to expose poverty andthe extent of political corruption in various aspects of Australian life.
Hardy also wanted to make the case for the Communist Party.A novel aimed at a popular readership ...about prominent figures in Australian politics and Catholic Church could do real damage.Archbishop Malone = Archbishop of Melbourne Daniel MannixJohn West = John WrenJohn Wren was not a gangster, but a big city boss who...excelled at machine politics, and even funded the Catholic ChurchLast thoughts:Coined as the most influential novel published in Australia in 20th C…you have to read it taking into account the political climate in Melbourne at the time.
Review
Well this was quite a ride.1st Third: pretty great read.
Lots of good characters and West is still vaguely relatable.2nd Third: alright, well it's slowing down with all the details of his many scams but the stuff about the start of the Labour Party is pretty good.
Last third: argh need to finish this book.
Do I need to know all the corrupt scams that ever happened in racing or boxing or cycling?
Ooh this stuff about the Catholic Church driving the communists out of the unions is pretty good.
For historical detail and political info I give this book an A+.
'More than 100 of Australia's best known writers, artists, scientists and members of the professions
OK I'm giving up on Power without Glory I'm afraid. It's not that I thought it was terrible or anything, I just kept putting it down in preference for something else. Probably I'm missing out on a grand piece of Australian writing. It's apparently a fictionalised version of a real person's life and it kind of feels like a dull biography. I'm up to page 189, so it's not like I didn't give it a good go or anything. I think I'm feeling guilty for giving up on it...
Such an amazing book, particularly whilst living in Collingwood (Carringbush). Not only interesting to read about the politics of the day but also, trying to guess who and where the 'real' people and places were. I did find the famous tote (labelled on a plaque by Collingwood Historical Society) and, through my own research and contacts, I was able to see the actual record of the baptism of one of Wren's daughters.
Interesting because of its Australian historical political context but no literary great
I'm going to put this very clearly so no one my age makes the same mistake I did; This is NOT a good book if you're still in year 10 or under!
I'm in year 9 and while I found it interesting, I struggled to finish it and ended up handing in all my assignments late.
If you are going to choose this book, please make sure you have more than 7 weeks to do your assignments.
I do admire its historical side of it, being based on real-life people and the early 1900's politics in Victoria, but it's just needed to end.Overall, an interesting book but drags on for way too long.
Hardy’s 1952 thinly-disguised biography of the life of John Wren has poor dialogue and an excessively didactic tone but nevertheless this 670-page epic is very absorbing as power corrupts West (Wren) when he rises in the early 1900s through his tote to eventually control much of the Labour Movement until his death after WWII. The influence of the Catholic Church and the venality of most politicians feature prominently although it is hard to accept the total influence Wren allegedly exercised. 3.5 stars.
Sorry to say I have given up on this book.
It may be the style it is written in, or my lack of care for any of the characters, but I can't see myself ever picking this book up again.
It's really a shame, seeing as how this book was highly recommended to me, and I was deeply interested in Melbourne's history (especially after living here for 3 years) I would only recommend this book to some serious historians or people interested in politics.
I am not interested in history or politics, and I now know why.
Power Without Glory, by Frank Hardy First published 1950 Before I read Power Without Glory, I had a politically simple view of the world.
John Wren rose from poverty to immense wealth and political influence, starting with backyard gambling and bribing the police.
The book covers a period of 60 years, and so presents a vivid portrayal of life in Australia during that era, and by life we can include gambling, corruption of political leaders, bribery, thuggery, fixing sporting events, illegal activities of every kind, including murder.
Unfortunately, Frank Hardy never wrote anything else in the same class as Power Without Glory, not to worry, one great work is a massive achievement.
Never mind that Hardy was an unreconstructed Commo; this is a great, great-big book, a scandalous roman-a-clef based on a Collingwood Mafioso, John Wren and his rise (and rise). Blessed with no literary touches but a lot of narrative drive, the book has become, in its unpretentious way, a landmark of Australian literature. Hardy had to overcome a myriad hurdles to get his work published and only then did his troubles really begin, in the form of various reprisals, including an almost ruinous trial for criminal libel.
A fascinating picture of Australian politics, organised crime and corruption in the late 19th to the mid 20th century viewed through the (barely) fictionalised retelling of the life of John Wren, a noted racing identity whose empire extended to control sporting competitions(and related gambling), mining and politics. To reiterate a previous reviewer, the value in this book lies in its picture of a time and place in Australia's history as opposed to literary merit.
It's a long time since I read this classic, have started to dip back into it. It gives a great insight into politics and corruption in Australia , especially in the preWW2 period.The TV series based on the book was also a classic.
Great Aussie novel.
Started brilliantly. I absolutely loved the story of West's rise to power through his tote in Carringbush. Once he closed them down and moved into politics, the story really lost me.
DNF
Too bad underbelly, your continual attempts to ruin this books narrative voice have all failed
A good start, a good middle but a bad end.
This was big in it's day, but I think it would be pretty dated now. I recall my grandfather talking about it. The first half was good, but it became a slog after page 300 or so.
A great Australian novel, low on literary flourish but high on narrative drive.
a really interesting view of Melbourne
A brillant narrative on the Melbourne political, criminal and underworld classes from 1890 - 1950. Anyone who likes epic historical tales will like this book
