https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5922.The_Great_Heresies
Hilaire Belloc was half English, half French, a one time MP and a prolific writer known as "the man who wrote a library".
(The size of his works belie the wealth of fact and insight they contain.) 'The Great Heresies' whilst not a book that by it's title would seem of interest or import to the average person, is by value of it's content enjoyable and informative.
The five Heresies which Belloc considors are issues upon which the history of the World hinged, and so in explaining them he explains in part something of the world today, and how and why it is as it is when it could have been extremely different.
Very good historical review of the five great heresies against the Catholic Church along its history:1.
One of the most lucid historical treatments of Islam I have read, sometimes almost prophetic.3.
Although Belloc does not mention it, the current attempt by nationalist Catalonians to defend them is just a show of historical ignorance.4.
Protestantism (especially Calvinism), which rather than a typical heresy is a bunch of different denials of different basic Catholic tenets, its different branches united by a common hate to Catholicism.
Things are now much worse than when the book was written, but all the trends signaled in the book are quite visible now.
I've read a good amount of Belloc but this is my favorite by far.
His exploration of the various heresies - Arian, Albengensian, Islam, Protestantism, etc is greatly insightful.
Especially his chapter on Islam where he predicts Islam coming back as a power.
It is fascinating to read what he writes about why Islam as a Catholic heresy has been the only heresy with staying power, though he does not pretend to have all the answers.
Belloc the historian is seen in force here as he discusses the distractive nature of heresy and what it does to civilization.
Instead of arguing *why* rejecting the Divinity of Christ collapses the Christian religion, the process through which early doctrine was established and the turbulence and the difficulties that the early Church had to overcome to reject this heresy we learn that followers of Arianism all maintained their theological position out of selfish, social reasons, out of a desire to separate themselves from the newly converted masses and to cling to some exclusionary pagan mindset.
The reason why this is happening is never really addressed, Belloch resumes to just naming the Reformation, the loss of authority by the Church as the main factors in driving this change.
Since Belloc was talking about heresies against the Catholic religion, I wish he had used the following instead: In Western Christianity, heresy most commonly refers to those beliefs which were declared to be anathema by any of the ecumenical councils recognized by the Catholic Church.Belloc does describe what he feels are heresies (or, as one reviewer termed them: 'the five greatest threats to the Christian Faith over the past two thousand years.'): The Arian Heresy, The Heresy of Mohammed, The Albigensian Attack, The Protestant Reformation, and the 'Modern Attack'.
Belloc is not a thorough modern historian, nor is it necessary to agree with him to enjoy his books.
More importantly, I cannot fathom why the following fact is never reported in the news media:“Vienna, as we saw, was almost taken and only saved by the Christian army under the command of the King of Poland on a date that ought to be among the most famous in history – September 11, 1683”.
Vienna is the closest Islam ever came to conquering Europe on 911 .
That fact was worth reading this book alone.
Belloc’s book is good informal history, very easy to read.
And second, that three of the five have been defeated by Catholicism, the only two remaining being Islam (which Belloc presciently predicted would regain its ancient strength) and the “Modern” heresy, which Belloc saw as the main threat to Christianity and the world, and in fact as probably the harbinger of Anti-Christ.Belloc, of course, was a wholly orthodox Roman Catholic who believed that the entirety of what the Church taught is true.
Each "type" of heresy represented by the five chosen examples: Arian, Mohammedan, Albigensian, Protestant and Modern Attack, has it's own effects on the world, both Catholic and anti-Catholic. Hilaire Belloc's observations of the expanding attack on culture itself is enlightening and relevant to today's plight. Highly recommended.
Magnífico. De forma sencilla y amena hace un recorrido por las grandes herejías de la Historia, mostrando el hilo conductor y sus consecuencias.
Furthermore, he's often called a prophet of his day, making incredibly accurate predictions of the flow of the events throughout humanity.I was not disappointed in reading this book.
He makes a couple predictions of the future of Modernism and Islam (and this is before they became what they are today) and was spot on in nearly every analysis.His analytic presentation and style was very pleasant to read and kept me intrigued.
When I'm reading a book, there is a lists of things that produce annoyance in me and one of those things is the glorification of 'your side' because it is 'your side' and ignoring whatever faults committed by the people on 'your side.' 5 stars all in allI don't really have any complaints.
I really wanted to like this one, and I think that I would really like it if I gave it more of a chance, but I find Belloc's writing style so dry that I can barely keep focused on the page! I'm putting this one aside for a little while, and might try again later. (As in perhaps a year or so).
Recently, Ignatius Press has been re-printing some of his works including Characters of the Reformation and The Great Heresies.
The Modern Phase"The Arian heresy proposed to go to the very root of the Church's authority by attacking the full Divinity of her Founder." In layman's terms, it questioned the divinity of Jesus.
"The Mohammedan attack threatened to kill the Christian Church by invasion rather than to undermine it from within." Belloc saw this as a heresy and not just a new religion attacking an old one.
Belloc viewed the Albigensian heresy as the one that was nearly successful.
Belloc chose these specific five, because they showed all the different directions from which the Church can be attacked.
Magnificent. Erudite. Historical. Impassioned while being deeply rational. Belloc was a genius. And, refreshingly fair. Careful to tell the story from both sides, he draws conclusions that are convicting because of their historical accuracy and theological reasonableness. I leaned a lot and will certainly re-read. My only regret is that I read this AFTeR John Senior’s “Death Of Christian Culture.”
Fabulous book, but do not get the Stellar Editions version. They appear to have scanned the pages in and done no editing, so it was somewhat painful to get through because of that. Belloc's writing is great and thoughtful, if a little hard core at times.
Belloc gives a solid overview history of Europe from a Catholic not the usual secular perspective. This text does not sugar coat mistakes and shows interesting effects of certain heresies up to the early 1900's. Good writing style, I will be reading more of his writing. Check it out.
You can learn stuff from Hilaire Belloc, but beware. He is Roman Catholic first and historian a distant second. In The Great Heresies, furthermore, he makes many grand declarations with the support of nary a citation.Nevertheless, I did enjoy the book. My life is one of perpetual doubt and uncertainty. In small doses, it is refreshing to spend time with someone, such as Belloc, who displays no such inclinations.
Hilaire Belloc writes on what he considers the five important heresies that the Catholic Church has faced.
I had always considered Islam to be a false religion growing on the basis on Judaism, but Mr. Belloc does make some compelling points, especially regarding Mary.
Modernism arose by the completion of Protestant questioning and rejection of central authority, and the Protestant Reformation survived in nations with weakened central governments - where power was split between nobles and kings, and the nobles could use enriching (Protestantism allowed them to cease ecclesial property) heresy to fight the kings.
A edição brasileira é de 2009, e é da Editora Permanência.
A revisão é porca, mal de que Chesterton também anda padecendo (ler-lhe o "Hereges" chega a irritar), mas não compromete.
Belloc era lúcido, sabia do que estava falando e não fugia da raia.
Diz, memoravelmente, que não existe "cristianismo": existem a Igreja e as heresias.
E diz que o mundo moderno oscila entre duas formas de escravidão: a ao Estado e a aos patrões.
Explica que o mundo moderno, esse dos black flops, dos molotovs do amor e dos crucifixos no cu é fruto da pasmaceira protestante.
Vague thoughts upon reading Belloc's "The Great Heresies"It’s interesting what he got right and what he got wrong. It was written in 1930, just before the revelation of the true nature of the Third Reich. Belloc didn’t buy into the hype.He predicted the continued rise of Modernism against the Church, a return to pagan slavery (wage slavery). He wrongly predicts the death of Protestantism, however. He also predicted the continuing rise of Islam.
Thought-provoking and informative. I would have wished for more on the modernist heresy, but I suppose that's not quite fair given the publication date. Belloc's style is generally very clear and easy to follow - very different from his colorful and bombastic friend Chesterton, bless his heart.
His historical dialectic and clear vision of the future is unparalleled, as far as historical and philosophical movements go and his assessment of them in terms of what exactly has happened or is happening right now is truly fascinating.
Should man's self-inflicted psychotic condition in America infuriate one because life is unfathomably brief even at its longest, or should one consider this mere proof of the fallen state of mankind and try further, at any cost, to emulate the saints, Thoreau, Socrates, &c?
Included in the "History and Culture" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.
Heresies is a sweeping history of the two- century history interpreted through a Catholic lens centering on the what Belloc considers the five greatest heresies to Catholicism.
A century later, when the two groups couldn't resolve their differences, only then did they set up two competing world views in opposition to each other.
I remember when AP European history, even back when I was in high school, was considered controversial because it was too "Eurocentric." I had plenty of US History, and you'd still think we were the center of the world after that.I'm glad to have found Belloc, and I continue to feel drawn to these great Catholic authors.
The heresies he discusses are (1) Arianism, (2) Islam, (3) Albigensianism, (4) Protestantism, and (5) the "Modern" (for lack of a better phrse).
He sees heresies as having a flourishing phase and then disappearing as an organized cult, although they often have long-term effects in a culture.
Worldwide, Protestantism, especially in its Pentecostal forms, is flourishing quite nicely it seems.His discussion of the Modern, in many respects, sounds like a lot of what is going on today.
However, contemporary readers may feel uncomfortable reading this book as a proper history because of it's lack of primary source citation and reference.The Protestant "heresy" investigation in particular is disappointing: Belloc claims that this heresy was not actually a single heresy, but rather a collection of various heresies, somewhat breaking his own initial definition of a heresy as a "complete and self supporting scheme" that rejects a set of fundamental Christian truths.
More ink is spilt over the social, cultural, and national mechanics that the Reformation set in motion than the so-called heresy itself.
I feel like this book didn't stand the test of time as well as some others did. It felt very much like it was relevant when it was written, but I probably wouldn't recommend it to anyone who didn't specifically want to learn about how the Catholic Church saw itself and its history as World War II was starting.
I'm pretty sure I've read this and appreciated it immensely, but I get it confused with another book by an early 20th century Frenchman whose name I am mortified to admit I don't recall at the moment.
This book takes the Catholic view of heresiesThis is a fairly good defence of the Catholic faith but ignores the idol worshiping by the Catholic church and the countless murders. A book that covers this well is the history of romanism.
Belloc has the wit of a Englishman, and the directness of a Frenchman. He breaks down the five great heresies that have challenged the Catholic Church. Coherent, insightful and simply cogent!
