https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52232.Day_of_Infamy
We are fast approaching the 75th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor, the (in)famous Japanese air raid that caught the American fleet at anchor in Hawaii on December 7, 1941.
Though not as lauded, Day of Infamy perfectly captures the style and immediacy of A Night to Remember, and in doing so creates the touchstone of Pearl Harbor literature.
Lord follows both the crews of the Japanese midget subs, and the men of the destroyer Ward who are hunting them.
In typical Lord-ian fashion, Day of Infamy moves from person to person, each individual’s recollection leading to the next.
Narrated by Grover Gardner 6 hrs and 50 minsDescription: Day of Infamy is Walter Lord's gripping, vivid re-creation of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on Sunday, December 7, 1941. The listener accompanies Admiral Nagumo's task force as it sweeps toward Hawaii; looks on while warning after warning is ignored on Oahu; and is enmeshed in the panic, confusion, and heroism of the final attack.The best title for today, after the Friday 13th terrorism in Paris yeah, Day of Infamy indeed.Short enough to keep my attention whilst hands were busy with chores, unsettling that no-one took the radar blips seriously.
Thanks to a review and recommendation of a GR friend (thanks Matt) I was reminded of the upcoming 75th anniversary of Pearl Harbor and that further reminded me of the trip my wife and I made there a few years ago.
My friend's review piqued my curiosity and made my book selection much easier though after reading the book I have to say it wasn't what I was expecting.
The entire books is about what those people that were there actually experienced and saw.
If you want to know what happened at Pearl Harbor on December 7,1941 then this is the book to read.
One of the deciding factors of the tide of the bombing is Admiral Nagumo's commitment to carrying on with the attack if sighed by the enemy on December 7th.Ultimately, the story of the bombing of Pearl Harbor is a story of ordinary soldiers doing their duty, the American navy carelessly ignoring significant hints of the Japanese, the Japanese furiously scrutinizing their plan to stay on task, and both sides refusing to let anything break their pride and sense of nationalism.
This was the 1st adult book I read on Pearl Harbor.
As a teenager I read a Landmark book titled From Pearl Harbor to Okinawa by Bruce Bliven Jr. Even now I still feel a sense of anger at the Japanese for this sneak attack.
One thing I do remember reading in another book that one of the Japanese leaders said after the attack, was he was afraid that all they had done was awaken a sleeping giant.
I recommend this book to anyone who is interested on some 1st hand accounts of the attack.
Very well written account of the attack on Pearl Harbor for the Japanese and American perspective. Now the US is in the war too. I would definitely recommend this one if you like WWII history. Will never forget Yamamoto's reply to the attack, "I fear all we have done is to awaken a sleeping giant and fill him with a terrible resolve."
Reading the book helped me understand how this event was similar to the 9/11 attack.Communications challenge - Even though Pearl Harbor was attacked starting just before 8am, other airfields on Oahu were still not aware of the situation as much as 30 minutes later until the Japanese started attacking them also.
We have so much better means of connecting now but still communicating the right information to the right people at the right level of detail is a challenge.Resiliency - Most of the boats that were bombed by the Japanese in the attack on Pearl Harbor were put back into service during WWII.
I wanted to learn more about this Pacific war, because my grandfather was a commander in the Navy based at Treasure Island in San Francisco Bay. The writing in this book was so good, that you could see the Japanese as they bombed Pearl Harbor.
I think we are far enough away from WWII, not to harbor bad feelings against men who thought they were doing what was right for their country.
I think it should be required reading in highschool, so we don't forget what happened, and what all those men and women died for.
But this work was written originally in '57, when there were still a significant number of survivors from both sides, and the author weaves their individual stories together for a much richer tapestry than you get from a normal account.
The near misses, the rapid (and not so rapid) responses, the individual heroics and the moments of unintentional hilarity.
The author Westernized the Japanese names, from Lastname Firstname to Firstname Lastname.
It makes me nuts when authors do that, but given when the book was written I'm not really surprised.
I've always known about "the bombing of Pearl Harbor", but what I love about Walter Lord is his focus on the minutia that make up the bigger moment.
This book doesn't focus on the bombing in context or what it "meant" to the war; it's entirely about what it was like in Pearl Harbor on that day and nothing more.
A very interesting read for anyone who wishes for a deeper understanding of what it was "like" in Pearl Harbor on that day of infamy.
It is very difficult to judge this book. Its a 200 pages "easy" take on one of the most historical of days involving thousands of people doing remarkably historically significantly things. So you know, its not exhaustive (nor could it be. Maybe even at 100 times the length it could not be). The style is jerky and very much geared to the *good* stuff witnesses said. But it works, against the odds, at showing what that day was - and more than just being about *that* day, it is an interesting exper
It´s a 200 pages "easy" take on one of the most historical of days involving thousands of people doing remarkably historically significantly things.
Maybe only multimedia formats can really do justice to recording the history of something like this.And totally random sf fandom nerd thing - I do wonder what Connie Willis would have made of Pearl Harbor as a theme (wasn´t it supposed to be on Blackout/All Clear?)(and it seems to have taken short non-fiction to get me out of my not-finishing books rut)
I picked up this "classic" (yup, I bought the "sixtieth-anniversary edition) while touring Pearl Harbor (and the Arizona, the Bowfin, and the Mizzou - all of which, by the way, are well worth the time).
The folks in the gift shop told me this was the best seller out of a massive collection of Pearl Harbor, Navy History, and WWII history on the shelves.
Basically, it's a mostly chronological retelling of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor through the eyes of literally hundreds of folks involved in the events, from every conceivable perspective.
Even if you know the basics, there are plenty of interesting payoffs sprinkled throughout the work.
Several years ago I read Gordon Prange's "At Dawn We Slept," a very comprehensive history of the attack on Pearl Harbor.
In this book you are privy to the actions and reactions of Japanese sailors and airmen who instituted the attack, and the soldiers, sailors, airmen, wives, and Hawaii citizens who experienced every bit of it.
I learned some things I hadn't known before which, given the breadth of Prange's book, was amazing to me.
If you want to find out what it was like at Pearl Harbor that day without all the historical background, this is the book for you.
Walter Lord did an excellent job at bringing readers a non-biased look at the tragic events that took place on December seventh 1941.
Walter Lord places readers inside the cockpits of Japanese fighters, and ground attack aircraft.
Walter Lord ended his book with a beautiful tribute to the victims that died that day, and throughout the world during World War Two. He also concluded his book by interviewing survivors of the Pearl Harbor attack years later, so their voices could be heard forever.
My favorite part of the ending was when Lord listed the casualties of the entire Pacific theatre of World War Two, including Japanese.
There are plenty of such grim details in Day of Infamy; over 2400 Americans died that day.Lord takes care to convey the Japanese perspective on the raid as well, as when he chronicles how Captain Mitsuo Fuchida, who led the first wave of attack bombers, tried to ensure that all of its pilots would time their attacks precisely.
Characteristic of this area of emphasis in the book is Lord’s description of what happened when a second wave of Japanese dive bombers struck the Kanehoe Bay naval air station 90 minutes after the initial attack: “Suddenly all guns began to concentrate on one fighter.
The Americans prepared themselves as best they could with what hadn't been destroyed in the first attack, and for several days afterwards were jumpy as a cat at a dog show.The storytelling seemed a bit emotionally detached to me - the author mentions the men burned alive or drowned in several of the destroyed battleships, but I didn't get much sense of the utter horror of such an experience.This is not an in-depth description of the attack; other works describe the minutiae of the Pearl Harbor events much better.
This book is recommended for getting a quick sense of what it was like to be at Pearl Harbor on that infamous day.
Essentially the eyewitness accounts of hundreds compiled to make a cohesive narrative of events before, during, and immediately after the attack.
You’ll quickly understand that you are experiencing the same moments of the battle over and over from several points of view as the book (and the attack) progresses.
An interesting approach that helps remind you that these were just ordinary people experiencing this terrible moment In American history.
Most fascinating to me was the accounts of the civilians and what they had to endure.
An extremely impressive account of the Pearl Harbor attack.
Similar to A Night to Remember, Walter Lord's narrative of the Titanic disaster, this book focuses primarily on personal accounts of the attack.
In this regard, Lord indeed hit another home run.
He obviously conducted an astounding number of interviews and stitched them together to form an enjoyable, readable narrative.
He even gathered personal stories from the Japanese side, documenting the story of the two-man crew of a Japanese midget submarine.
Big-picture material, such as the perspective of the decision makers themselves, is lacking, though not entirely absent.
This book, originally written in 1957, goes through the attack on Pearl Harbor. It uses official records of the military and personal experiences to tell the tragic story. The book does jump around a lot but it tells literally hundreds of stories from all aspects of the attack, including the Japanese. With the 75th anniversary of Pear Harbor last year, I wanted to read a good book about the attack and this one is great.If you enjoy and are really in to history I highly recommend this book
Captivating telling of the attack from hundreds of vantage points each describing what the individual was doing and thinking during each phase of the attack. The vantage points include those of the Japanese, American military, the regular citizenry as well as spouses and families of the American military. I learned more about this Day of Infamy reading this book than I remember learning anywhere else.
Read while on vacation in Hawaii! It's the sort of military history that collects many personal stories, from generals down to local citizens. That gives a good overview of the event, though it's a different approach from one that is more of a map-driven, retrospective analysis. I learned quite a bit, and it led me to read another Walter Lord military history (Dunkirk) later.
So insightful. It's so graphic , i feel like i was on Pearl harbor that very day. It also highlights the reverence and respect the Americans had for the flag and Anthem "Star spangled banner", unlike what is seem these days at NFL games were overpaid and overated football players feel "kneeling" is the way forward. Lost values and creed!
Excellent ReadThis was the most thought provoking book about the Pearl Harbor Attack I've read. Detail was extremely well written. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the "Beginning of the United States entry into the war".
This was my second Walter Lord book. The emphasis seems to be all of the little personal stories around the event, with less emphasis on the big picture of what happened and it's significance. To me it gets tiresome quickly.
This was a well-written book which illuminated the events of Pearl Harbor and had some interesting facts, which I did not know about beforehand. Recommended for those wanting to know more about World War II.
Unprepared and LaxAll active duty personnel ang government officials and defense officials and staff members. Also national security personnel who do strategic planning.
A minute by minute description of the attack which is etched in American minds .The Japanese scheme and the American misery is well articulated.
Detailed account of the December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor.
16/20.
I was seeking for my next enterprise when I stumbled upon Day of Infamy in my English teacher's classroom and I decided to try it out.Walter Lord's novel reflects what was described by President FDR as "A date which will live in infamy." This of course was the bombing by the Imperial Japanese on the American naval base in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.
The Island of Oahu is the location of many army bases and airfields, as well as the massive Pearl Harbor naval base.
Overall, the book was great and I really learned a lot more about what happened the day of the attack on Pearl Harbor.
