https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42310.Rasmus_and_the_Vagabond

Thankfully our little friend bumps into the friendly Oscar not too long into his newfound independence.
Action with guns, and rolling fist fights, Jail-time and secret hideouts.For a book written in 1956, Rasmus and the Vagabond sure is a timeless and wonderful read.
There was emotion that made me want to hug poor little Rasmus and his fantasy of a mom to hug him when he is sick, and action enough that kept me reading late into the night to see what was going to happen.
It has gotten to the point where I don’t have to know what the book is about, if Astrid Lindgren wrote it, I’m going to read it.
I accidently posted this book. I didn't read it but I don't know how to get rid of it so I chose this option. Be Blessed.
An old favorite, now shared with my children. Rasmus the orphan child shows the importance of touch and listening to children. Oscar the vagabond, loveable and surprising becomes a hero in more than one way.
,,ზაფხულის ამ ქარიშხლიან ღამეს ბიჭს არც ერთი კეთილი ხელი არ გაუღებს კარს და არც ერთი კეთილი ხმა არ დაუძახებს ფანჯრიდან: ,,შემოდი ჩვენთან, ჩვენ დაგმალავთ!”
Gather the children, open these pages and meet little Rasmus.
but Oscar promises that he doesn't eat children, calls himself God's Best Friend, and carries big ham sandwiches on rye bread.
But on the whole people are usually nice to me." And there's doses of gentle truth, too.At one point Rasmus asks "Could I get to be one of those God's best friends anyway?" "Yes," Oscar reassures him, "They're not that fussy up there." This book is going on my shelf next to the Pippi Longstocking series.
Review below.  Through the many lists that I have acquired through out the years on books to read aloud to and books to let middle readers delve into, Astrid Lindgren has always been recommended. There are a few titles I often see, including her heroine Pippi Longstocking, but what about for the hero-inclined (aka boy) readers? Thus, we have Rasmus.I love this cover! The book itself has that soft feel and the colors and image to the cover image are very attractive (Kudos Eric Palmquist!). For my
Through the many lists that I have acquired through out the years on books to read aloud to and books to let middle readers delve into, Astrid Lindgren has always been recommended.
There are a few titles I often see, including her heroine Pippi Longstocking, but what about for the hero-inclined (aka boy) readers?
For my personal book lists for my students I am a fan of the vintage classic books and it makes my heart smile when publishers republish titles that are worthwhile to be in the hands of a child.
قصة فتى يتيم يعيش في ملجأ للأطفال أمنيته هي الحصول على والدين، في أحد الأيام يقرر راسموس تحقيق هذه الأمنية بنفسه فيهرب من الملجأ ليبحث عن عائلة تناسبه وتقبل به كإبن لها، يتعرف راسموس أثناء هروبه على متشرد ليرافقة في رحلته ويعيش الإثنين أحداث ومغامرات مشوقة.القصة موجهة للأطفال ولكنها وبكل تأكيد تناسب الكبار بما فيها من أحداث ومغامرات وكم هائل من العواطف، يفضل قراءتها مع الأطفال نظراً للمفردات التي قد تصعب عليهم، ونظراً لحجمها الذي يعتبر كبير نسبياً بالنسبة لقصة أطفال "١٩٥ صفحة"، بشكل عام القصة جميلة وممتعة كما احتوت على رسومات شيقة تجذب الأطفال وترجمتها جيدة.
I loved this book! From start to finish, Astrid Lindgren had me hooked. This is an excellent story to read to your children at bedtime - a chapter or two each night - will wisk them off to dreamland where they can travel the road with Paradise Oscar and Rasmus in search of parents for Rasmus. They have many adventures during their travels and even solve a mystery! Children of all ages, young and old, will enjoy this book!
3,5*
ممتع وظريف ودافئ بشكل يستحق الخمسة نجوم من أجله❤
As a grown woman with children too young for chapter books, I still gobbled up the whole story in one sitting!
Engaging from page one, the plot moves quickly and effortlessly as Rasmus tackles the challenges of boyhood, while living out a most dangerous adventure that children are going to love to read and/or hear aloud.
Bottom Line: I loved this book and am adding it to the list to read with my children.Would you recommend this book to a friend?
Oh boy, this was another story that I wasn't sure I was going to like.
He tries to be brave, but he is cold, hungry and just a tiny bit afraid (okay, maybe more afraid at times than he wants to admit.) That is until he meeets, Paradise Oscar.
Oscar becomes a buddy over time, someone who helps him, while still helping Rasmus keep his dignity.
The crooks in the story, give both Rasmus and Oscar a lot of grief but in the end, justice is served.
This story really surprised me.
About the Book:After running away from an orphanage, nine-year-old Rasmus finds the world a cold and unfriendly place until he meets an extraordinary tramp called "Paradise Oscar." Together they meet more adventure than they ever imagined, solve a mystery, catch the culprits, and find Rasmus a home.
Astrid Lindgren, who gave the world Pippi Longstocking, sets this action-packed classic of children s literature in the Swedish countryside before the age of automobiles.
This is one book you ll want to read more than once."About the Author:Astrid Lindgren, the creator of Pippi Longstocking, Emil, and dozens of other world-famous characters, has delighted three generations of children with her storytelling prowess.
Rasmus is a very likable character, and the reader is drawn into his innocent longings and observations.
However, his kindness and affection for Rasmus eventually wins the affections of the reader.The plot is moved forward by a series of events involving Rasmus, Oscar, and a pair of thieves.
It is a surprising and satisfying ending, however, I would have liked for it to have drawn out a bit more.I read this book with my three boys, ages 6, 9, and 10.
I would recommend reading this book with your children of all ages, or just for your own pleasure!

Ich kann schon garnicht mehr zählen wie oft mein Vater mir die Geschichte von Rasmus und dem Landstreicher vorgelesen hat.
Sie ist spannend und zeigt einem, wie man als Landstreicher auf der Walze so lebt und überlebt.Der Schreibstil ist am Anfang etwas komisch zu lesen, da man nicht mehr an die "alte" Sprache gewöhnt ist, das gibt sich aber schnell und die Seiten vergehen wie im Flug.Die Charaktere sind alle sehr liebevoll beschrieben und haben ihre eigenen Stärken und Schwächen.
This book has all the elements of a really good story: likeable characters with well-defined "good guys" and "bad guys", lots of action, interesting setting (Sweden in the summer), and working through a problem to a delightful solution.
Rasmus lives in an orphanage where prospective parents come periodically to look at the children as one would nowadays go to an animal shelter and pick out a puppy.
The lucky chosen child rides off in a carriage with her new parents right away.
Fortunately for him, he meets a charming tramp, Oscar, who takes Rasmus under his wing.
If you are looking for an accurate review of this book, then you need to hear the voice of my 9-yr-old daughter, who simply devoured this book and declared that she loved it!
"Rasmus and the Vagabond" is a timeless children story that readers, young and old, are going to love!
My daughter and I highly recommend this story and award it 5 out of 5 stars.Disclaimer - I received a free copy of this product from FlyBy Promotions and B&H Kids in exchange for my honest opinion shared in this review.
He is afraid of never being chosen, so he decides to set off on his own to find parents.Instead, he finds a kindly vagabond named Oscar.
He agrees not to take Rasmus back right away and to help him find some parents.
Rasmus and Oscar get tangled up in the action.
Will Rasmus find new parents, or will he have to go back to Miss Hawk at Vaesterhaga?
The story is so cute and full of fun adventure that your children will love!
This story was written in the 1950's, but children today will enjoy hearing about Rasmus and Oscar.
It would make a great read aloud.
After he escapes the orphanage and "The Hawk" he encounters a tramp.
Rasmus becomes dedicated to Oscar, God's favorite tramp, and the two pass their time singing or working for food.
Oscar and Rasmus must act quickly if they're going to save their reputation and stay out of jail!
Rasmus never dreamed that leaving the orphanage would open such a world of adventure and mystery.Rasmus and the Vagabond is a tale that will delight children, they will identify with Rasmus and his musings and will long for adventure on the road.
A quick read for all ages with great ink drawings dispersed throughout the story.
Rasmus wants parents more than anything else.
But everyone knows that parents always want curly haired little girls.
And Rasmus is a nine-year-old boy with straight hair.
The adventures they encounter are scary and thrilling for the young boy as the two search for the perfect parents for young Rasmus.Written in a classic style that will never get old, the author tells a story that readers both young and old will enjoy.
I loved the story as much as my 8 yr old son.
The writing style is spirited and animated enough to capture even the youngest readers.
Я так давно не читала Астрід Ліндґрен, що вже й забула, яка ж вона крута.Коли запитати про її книжки, кожен згадає Пеппі та Карлсона, більш продвинуті — "Братів Лев'яче Серце", "Міо, мій Міо", "Роню, доньку злодія".
А ця невелика повість не входить, мабуть, навіть у її топ-10.
Хоча в будь-якого іншого письменника вона була б намбер ван.
Що тут багато розводитися, коли я, вже велика дівчинка, не могла заснути, доки її не дочитала.
Бомбезна гостросюжетна книжка, з добротою, гумором і світлим смутком, як і завжди в прекрасної Астрід.
А ще тут дуже багато літа, свіжого запаху сіна, ясних безкінечних днів і романтики мандрів.
When I was a child, one of my favorite games was to play "Orphan".
My cousins and I would pretend to be run-away-orphans and go on simple adventures together.
This book had the feel of that game - simple and gentle, yet full of fun.
Young Rasmus, a 9-year-old orphan, ran away from his orphanage not so much to escape terrible conditions or wicked people as to find a real family.
In the end, Rasmus finds a joyful family who doesn't look at all like his original imaginings but does satisfy his longings.
الكتاب اللي خلاني انتعش من عقب اخر كتب كنت اقراها ، كنت محتاجه روايه دلع واخذ راحتي فيها وابتسم وانسى عمري ، وكان اختيار موفق لي لهالكتاب ، رغم اني كنت اخاف من الكتب المترجمه انها بتكون صعبه ، واحس انه بيكون من اجمل واسعد الكتب اللي خذتها ب درهم ..
وانا اخر شي بدفع لفتني العنوان عند وحده يالسه تحاسب وقلت كييف احصله احين وام الزحمه داخل جان بالصدفة اشوفه تحت ع الارض وارجع كتاب واخذه ، وعقب تذكرت اني شفته عند اختي سوسو من زماان وايد يوم بعدني ما اقرا كتب وكنت حاطه ف بالي اني مابقراه ف يوم !
بس احين ابد ماندمت اني قريته لانه جدا اسعدني وكان في الوقت المناسب ، والحمدلله
Книжката е чудна! Изключително много се радвам, че я прочетох, пък макар и на 23! Когато я свърших, облегнах лактите си на балкона, погледнах белите облаци на яркосиньото небе, засмях се и си казах: Не е ли СТРАХОТЕН животът! Учудвам се, че не е сред най-популярните романи на Астрид Линдгрен, защото има всички качества да бъде! Препоръчвам го сърдечно! Препоръчвам също и биографията на авторката, защото познаването на творческия й и личен път, със сигурност обогатява разбирането на книгите й (от страна на възрастните поне).
Rasmus started at an orphanage and then travelled for a long time with a vagabond. They found a secret cellar in a cottage they stayed in. It was filled with jewels and gold. Then robbers came and Rasmus locked one in the cellar. The other one fell off a cliff because he was chasing the vagabond. They took all the gold to the sheriff. They went to a farmhouse to stay for the night and they met the farmer and his wife. They were about to go to the same orphanage that Rasmus started out at. They adopted him.
I highly recommend this book! It is a great read that is perfect for children ages 8-12 years old. The book is full of adventure and surprise and in true Astrid Lindgren fashion a story of an amazing boy who has an amazing friendship. This is one of those books that I am thrilled to add to our library.I received a copy of this book in exchange for my review. However all opinions expressed are 100% my own.
One of the most amazing books for a child to read. First read it when I was seven. after crying my eyes out, and taking 3 days of crying to get through the sad part, I got through it, and read it a million times more! I certainly recommend it to anyone at their teens, even above, but mostly best for kids..Great book!
اخترت هذا الكتاب كأول كتاب أقرأه هذا العام، أنهيته وأنا مبتسمة وأشعر بالسعادة والدفء، راسموس الصبي ذو الشعر الأملس، الرقيق الحالم شعرت وكأنني كنت معه بدءًا بهروبه من فايسترهاغا ولقائه بأعز مخلوقات الله أوسكار مرورًا بالليالي التي قضياها في الحظيرة ومخزن القش، والكوخ الرمادي بقرب البحر، والغرفة المهجورة التي قام الرقيق راسموس بتحلويلها إلى مكان مبهج، انتهاءً بالخاتمة المبهجة
