https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90697.The_Lonely_Crowd
The main problem is that there is so much to say about this book that it is hard to not go on forever.The key ideas here are that there are three main types of people in the world today: the traditional, the inner directed and the other directed.
I don’t recall much discussion in the 1969 book of the long term implications of these trends, but they could be deep tectonic shifts in the nature of civilization, as profound as the shift from the days of a pre-industrial society based mostly on agricultural production.(It is quite possible that I have forgotten essential details of this book’s message, or even fundamentally misunderstood them — in which case I hope someone will post a comment to my review alerting me to my mistake).I hope to find time to re-read the Revised Edition and see if the Foreword, at least, has much to say about current evidence for these trends, but a browse of the book (via Amazon Reader’s preview) doesn’t show much commentary.The Lonely Crowd is definitely relevant to our twentieth-century world, but so much of the subject matter, style and examples are antiquated that most people will find the book’s lessons difficult and obscure.
truly describes our generations character. the fact that we're all on a website with our 'other-directed' receptors attune to see what books we should read next, pretty much proves the substance of this book - although it was written more to describe the new upper middle class mindset of the 1950s.
Because of what I saw to be a fearless examination of the conformity and monotony of American society, it had an enormous impact on my own personal life; it was partly to escape the deadening stigma of the "outer-directed" (i.e., conformist) existence, as described by Riesman, that I abandoned steady employment for a life as a free-lance writer, living in various European countries and constantly scratching for income - which was my lifestyle for more than thirty years.
Some of the positive things about America in the fifties have reversed themselves like egalitarianism at least in the wallet.
Some things have improved like tolerance of diversity at least in race and gender matters.
Being a team player is the most important thing to be successful.
With books about social intelligence coming out every year we see a rehashing of Dale Carnegie's "How to win friends and influence people" still in print and selling well since it came out in 1937 we are all salesmen and team players if we want to get ahead.
Because most people today think about people in affluent Western societies as cold, materialistic, selfish etc.Riesman draws a much more complex picture.
Some words/phrases I remember: unquestioning obedience to one's parents, the school's one-sided focus on intellectual matters, monotonous, brutalization, character-building, cold to other people, impersonal, homogenous, predictable, discipline, material scarcity.The consumerist society of today he describes as other-directed, i.e. people's lives are shaped by short-lasting, shallow contemporary fads rather than heavy, abstract principles learned in childhood.
Today's other-directed people are driven by an anxiety that they are constantly missing something in life and that they are not likeable and interesting enough to others.His thesis is very mysterious and contradictory though.
...and the award for the most racist/sexist theory of human social development goes to...I mean, I know that I'm being presentist and I'm ignoring more deeply-rooted critiques of the actual theory in the book... but some of Riesman's comments are really hard to read around.
The Autonomous Man in an Other-Directed World - Một bài viết mình nghĩ là khá hay dựa trên những ý tưởng từ The Lonely Crowd.
Riesman believes that personal autonomy has declined in the other-directed society that industrial capitalism has produced.
If one is to be other-directed, however, one should contribute something unique to society, rather than conforming to the latest fad and sacrificing personal autonomy.
Such a balance of inner and outer attitudes would steer American character away from the excesses of consumption, popularity, and "glad-handing." The warning against conformity is passionate, and the assessment of tradition-based, inner-directed, and other-directed societies is more nuanced than one might expect.
One can connect Riesman's critique of conformity to Joseph Campbell's inner-directed "follow your bliss" philosophy.
D.Riesman y décrit le passage de la valorisation de la compétence à celle de la popularité, le contrôle croissant du groupe sur l'individu et la pression conformiste des sociétés modernes.
Si certains passages, notamment ceux relatifs aux médias, ont maintenant un peu datés, la démonstration d'ensemble reste impressionnante , notamment quand elle décrit l'emprise croissante du groupe avec la réduction de la sphère privée qui en résulte, démonstration qui semble anticiper l'impact des réseaux sociaux...
Cuộc sống với quá nhiều liên kết và cơ hội dường như ở mọi nơi, và tâm trí chúng ta cũng hay bị xao lãng và hay so đo mình với kẻ khác hươn bao giờ hết.Sau khi xây dựng nên 3 nhóm trên, tác giả đi sâu vào phân tích xu hướng suy nghĩ hành vi của họ ở một loạt các bối cảnh khác nhau: giáo dục, tình bạn, chính trị, … bạn sẽ bị cuốn theo cuốn sách với những lý giải thực sự rất khoa học mà lại dễ hiểu, nơi mà bạn có thể dùng lý luận để soi chiếu ứng xử của những người quanh ta mà trước đây ta đã từng băn khoăn.
But the explanation lies rather in the fact that most men today simply do not know how to change roles, let alone mark the change by proper costuming.Within certain given limits of property and place, one could move without arousing shocked antagonism, traumatic either in terms of one’s feelings or one’s worldly fate.Many of these same defenses however, operated far more frequently as barriers to autonomy than as defenses for it.
While some ideas may feel rather outdated, it still offers much in the way of understanding our culture and cultural problems reflected in the "American character". Perhaps, a reexamination of this book can help shift us the right direction.
He argues that, as societies grow numerically and economically, individual's sources of identity change.
In traditional societies, people are oriented toward tradition (unsurprisingly) and may have very little conception of their individuality.
The changes of European societies during the Renaissance, Reformation, Enlightenment, and Industrial Revolution all led away from this and toward an conception of self-identity rooted in an interior framework established early in life by their parents.
Finally, in the Post-War United States, Riesman saw the development — particularly amongst the urban middle and upper classes— of a sense of self that was rooted in their relationship to their peers, rather than either to tradition or inner values.
Riesman's theory is an excellent complement to the more familiar Jungian concepts of introversion and extroversion that Cain discusses.
People in a tradition-directed society get their ideas of how to live directly from cultural institutions and authorities.
Later, as society has grown so large it appears ready to decline, individuals learn to cultivate values taken from their immediate generation of peers (Riesman calls this "other direction").
Like Nicholas Carr in The Shallows, Riesman identifies how literate culture is unlike the world of oral traditions it succeeded or the incessantly connected world of mass media that has followed.

I picked this up in a used bookstore many years ago and tried to read it a few times. It is difficult. But, finally picked it up again and really enjoyed it this time. Written in the 50s, but such an apt characterization of the US today. Depressing, interesting, and really relevant. It's also interesting to me that in this descriptive, sociological, political commentary, you see so much of what social psychologists were doing at the same time using a completely different approach.
It was quite interesting but I almost gave up. I feel like it would be a very enjoyable book for people with a PhD in sociology. For a slug like me it was a bit of a grind. I would get lost in some of the analogies and conclusions he draws.  Seemed to me he made some assumptions about people's familiarity with the subject.
Pretty dense, dry, but amazingly prescient. His theory, in a nutshell, is that people's personalities and ways of relating to each other are highly influenced by where society is in terms of its growth cycle during the time they are born and raised. Yeah, that's a bad summary, but it's pretty amazing stuff and you should read it, at least some of it, as it's very enlightening.
Recommended by Seth Godin in  Linchpin .
Pompous and boring.
Art of Manliness - jeremiad rec
I'm going to have to come back to this one at a later time.
Outdated theories but the typologies still ring true today
Read this a long long time ago ... before the music died.
Could barely get through it. Recommendation: find a summary.
When readon
AAPOR list: Fifty Books That Have Shaped Public Opinion
A truly excellent book for beginning the study of societal evolution.
