https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26156987-if-i-was-your-girl
Edit: I have edited this review because some of what I said hurt members of the trans community, as well as those who love and support them.
One last note: it is wonderful to feel like your opinion is valued, but this is a trans book by a trans woman and I am a cis reader - please consider the limitations of my perspective and seek out the reviews and commentary of trans readers.
In the afterword, the author addresses some of the decisions she made in the novel (view spoiler)["I'm worried that you might take Amanda's story as gospel, especially since it comes from a trans woman.
I think this is the first YA book with a trans main character I've ever read that wasn't your typical "coming out" story, but rather was just about a teenage girl living her life.
I loved that, because most books like this usually focus on the negative side of what most trans people go through, but this one focused more on her being happy and enjoying her life.
The coming out stories are just as important, but this book felt like one of the first that really normalizes trans people (at least in YA) and I absolutely loved that about it.
If you want to read a book that you’ll breeze through while laughing and smiling and just having a great time, If I Was Your Girl is not the right pick.This is the type of story you read because you want to learn more about the LGBT community, want to support them in an indirect way or try to understand their lives and themselves better.Or maybe you want something inspiring to remember that there is still goodness in this corrupted world.It’s a beautiful story about a transgender girl named Amanda who wants to survive high school.
If I Was Your Girl  was the first book I've read with a trans main character, and I'm definitely satisfied.
As a cis woman, I felt I really learned a lot about the experience people like Amanda go through and it was a very informative and valuable read.
On a related note, I'd really recommend reading the authors note in the back as I feel it includes extremely important information for trans folk and cis readers.I did have a few issues with this book, despite enjoying it overall.
I liked them a lot while reading, but reviewing this, I’m sort of thinking of them as Religious Girl, The Gay One, and The One I Don’t Even Remember, which isn’t a good sign.
[Except for a few things at the end.] And in the same vein, there’s a certain character in this book who I loved until the ending.
And I think this segment was meant as education for cis readers to really understand how awful life can be for trans women, which is really important, don’t get me wrong.
OVERALL I REALLY LOVE AMANDA AND THEREFORE I REALLY LIKE THIS BOOK.
This was freaking INCREDIBLE, y'all.Trigger Warning: depression, suicide, suicidal thoughts, severe bullying.
3.5 stars It's so very important that books like this are written and published and read, and IF I WAS YOUR GIRL heralds the beginning of a promising new YA imprint at Flatiron Books.
I'm especially heartened by the fact that not only is this a story about a trans girl written by a trans woman, but that the cover art also features a trans model.
Still, in my eyes, there are two major obstacles that prevent this from being a truly great book rather than "just" a solid/worthwhile one.
But I'm glad I read it, and I'd be interested in seeing what the author does with a little more seasoning.
semifinalist in goodreads' best young adult fiction category 2016!"It's easy to act like my past never happened, but it feels like I've put up this wall around my heart that stops me from being really close with him.""You know walls are there for a reason though, right?… They keep things safe and they keep things from falling apart."reviewing this book in terms of whether it is "good" or "not good" is almost irrelevant, because it's one of those books that needs to exist for reasons that transcend a reader's enjoyment of it.take the first x-ray machine - was it perfect outta the gate?
*screams from the rooftop* READ THIS BOOK!
I know this is a book that will stay with me. It walks a truthful line between queer tragedy and a more positive reality, which can be a difficult topic to straddle. It is honest, and it is emotional, and it is absolutely a story that everyone will get something out of.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I was going to not post anything in my review space and make some sort of disclaimer instead stating “sometimes you just probably shouldn’t write anything at all,” but then I saw my friend Rachel had already done that and I didn’t really want to get sued for plagiarism, so here I am. Instead of leaving nothing, I’m going to use the author’s own words . . . . . “I have, in some ways, cleaved to stereotypes and even bent rules to make Am
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/I was going to not post anything in my review space and make some sort of disclaimer instead stating “sometimes you just probably shouldn’t write anything at all,” but then I saw my friend Rachel had already done that and I didn’t really want to get sued for plagiarism, so here I am.
Instead of leaving nothing, I’m going to use the author’s own words .
“I have, in some ways, cleaved to stereotypes and even bent rules to make Amanda’s trans-ness as unchallenging to normative assumptions as possible.
"If I Was Your Girl" is a YA Novel that parents should encourage their children to read!!!
Because of all of the hate going on as of late, and because of the new discriminatory law directed towards the transgender community in North Carolina.Amanda is a teenager who has transitioned from a boy to a girl.
While at the new school she finds friends, love and kindness from her fellow students with her secret.
The novel being lighter is all the more reason to encourage your teenagers to read it.
I can't stress how timely and important this book is.
Rumor has it the cover model is a trans girl :)[update: the rumor is true!]____________________This book is everything.
I hope it becomes the game changer that it's poised to be.
Amanda is an incredibly real, fully-fleshed girl with a tremendous heart and tremendous hope, even when she questions it.
This is a story that isn't about transitioning in the sense of changing from male to female; it's a book about transitioning into the next places, where you find your footing, where you're having a normal teenage life.
This isn't a book about extremes; it's about those spaces between and why they matter.
This book is intended for readers who are cis, trans, and anyone in between.
You may see yourself in Amanda, or you may see yourself in her peers or parents.
This would be such an important teaching tool (as a spring board for discussion) for parents to discuss the flashback chapters with very young children, for teens to see themselves or their peers in, and for adults to reflect on how they do/would interact with trans youth.
I loved that the family dynamic was just as important as the friend group and the romantic relationship.
This had fantastic self aware writing, a wonderful main character, and great messages woven throughout.
“I'm not brave,” I said, smiling despite myself. “Bravery implies I had a choice. I’m just me, you know?” You can find this review and all of my other reviews at Novel Descent Thanks for the support!Absolutely adored this book, even if it did manage to rip my heart out a few times. Trigger warnings for this book are: suicide, bullying, and rape. If I was Your Girl follows a young transwoman who has is going to live with her estranged father because of the relentless bullying at her old school.
Amanda is accepted, and she is well-liked and, for once in her life, she is "normal." It's all she ever wanted, except she is still dealing with her internal fears that somehow someone might find out her secret and is it ok for her to be in a relationship with a boy without disclosing her past.
I have read a lot of the reviews and some people did find this book on the slow side.
Amanda's love interest, Grant, seemed like a good guy, I think he could've used a bit more developing but I liked him enough.
"I should have been born a girl." First and foremost, I should mention I am a cis woman. My review is limited by my own experiences, which has unfortunately not included actual face-to-face contact with a trans person.Now that that's out of the way, I did think If Was Your Girl was a teensy unrealistic. But, BUT— *dodges flying tomato* not the kind you think. My beef is with how easily Amanda is accepted into the social fold. First day at school and she's already got two male admirers and four
My review is limited by my own experiences, which has unfortunately not included actual face-to-face contact with a trans person.Now that that's out of the way, I did think If Was Your Girl was a teensy unrealistic.
First day at school and she's already got two male admirers and four instant girl buddies, without her making a genuine effort to interact with people.
Amanda's parents love and accept her, but it also takes them time to adjust to having a daughter instead of a son.
A promise that transgender people deserve fairytale endings just as much as everyone else.
TW: bullying, suicide, transphobia, & homophobiaThank you Flat Iron Books for the free review copy!This would have been a four star book because I thought it was a well-rounded story about Amanda becoming confident in herself and transforming into someone brave and self-assured, but I took off an entire star because the way that she was outed was so cruel and unnecessary.
I’m trying to balance this with the reality that a lot of LGBTQIA+ people get outed by “friends,” but again, it just felt so needlessly cruel.
The character that outs her had SO much potential and they ended up being really shitty and irredeemable and I’m just really disappointed.
This book is publishing done right. A contemporary YA romance about a transgender girl, written by a transgender woman and featuring a transgender model on the cover. Absolutely loved Amanda's story!
You know books people say are great just because they're so necessary in concept and premise, but then the execution and/or style kinda suck but no one wants to admit it?This is not that.
I legit loved it, from the dedication to the author's note to the book itself, and will be rec-ing the shit out of it for the next year and beyond.
So happy to finally have a trans book by a trans author in YA from a big publisher, and the fact that there's even trans rep on the cover is just the perfect icing.
Just...so happy this book is a thing right now.
THIS BOOK guys.The story was amazing, I really like the dual-time aspect because it helped me to understand Amanda a lot more, to see where she's coming from and how much she went through.I loved the romance, the way Grant and Amanda just 'clicked' like she said so well, the Stars Wars references, the cute moments, this deep trust they have in each other.
What the hell are you waiting for ?“For as long as I could remember, I had been apologizing for existing, for trying to be who I was, to live the life I was meant to lead.
So, reading this book is like reading Lily's transgender life only she's more grown up and her name here is Amanda.
What's new from this book for me is that now I got to see how a fully transgender people like Amanda socializes at high school where no one knows her story.
At first, with the appearance of Chloe, Anna, Layla and the outsider Bee in Amanda's circle, I thought this story were going to be something like Mean Girls, with Amanda as Cady.
And just like  Lily and Dunkin, there's a happy and heartwarming ending between Amanda and her father.
And the amount of people who can't be themselves due to fear for their own safety.As many more before me have said, this is a really important book.
It's a debut, the writing is rather sweet, the story moves a bit too quickly, and many of the characters are one dimensional (I was nearly halfway through the book before I was finally able to differentiate between Layla, Anna, and Chloe).
Despite all that, the story itself is good and it is IMPORTANT and its sheer existence is necessary.
Parts of the novel are heart-wrenching, and I think so many people, regardless of gender or identity, would be able to take something away from this story.
i'm so glad I finally read this book.
This is an ownvoices book about a transwoman called Amanda who moves schools in order to live with her father.
This is a hard book to read, because there's a lot of outing and homophobia/transphobia, as well as rape and sexual assault.
One thing I really didn't like about this book was the open ending, and the representation of the bisexual character.
But overall this is a book I think everyone needs to read - ownvoices trans stories published by major publishers are rare and we're privileged to have this one.
[Received this book through Goodreads First Reads Giveaway.]"I wasn't sorry I existed any more.
I knew now - I believed, now - that I deserved to be loved."I cried a grand total of 4 times during this book, not counting the tear I shed at the Author's Note at the very end.
It is very brave to be transgender in this world, and it's even braver to write a book about a transgender character based on your experiences as trans.
I know nearly everyone who's read this book has called it important, and brave, but I'm going to say it again because it's just so true.
Everyone should read this book, everyone.

This book was so very cute, and SOOO informative. I learned so much about the trans community and how to be respectful of those within it and I am just so pleased to have read it. Only taking off a star because I feel like there were a few bits of the plot that were a little convenient or left unresolved, but I'm still so happy with this.
And we all know that the south remains the one of the unfriendliest places for violence toward the transgender community.
This is not just general bullying, this can be life or death.The author acknowledges the issues with her own novel, so I don't need to mention them (but will!) - the fact that the main character has relatively smooth sailing because she "passes" (even though there are issues with this word) and many trans people don't have this luxury.
In other words for so long, lgbt characters are only "allowed" to exist in literature if their very existence leads to negative dramatic events.
Amanda used to be Andrew."As I was reading this book I was a little disappointed.
But her reasons were because of trying to communicate simple understanding of what it means to be trans.
It's simply the story of a trans teenage girl who moves to a new school and falls in love for the first time like any other teenager.
Because simple stories like this one makes it easier for us to immediately understand what it means and feels to be trans.
I know very little about what it must mean to be trans.
4.5 starsSuch a wonderful book. I love that this was not about Amanda transitioning but just her being a girl and falling in love with a boy. The ending left me wanting so much MORE.
