https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/518452.Magic_for_Marigold
Lovely lovely lovely ♥♥ There isn't a book by L.M. Montgomery that I don't enjoy. Marigold was the funniest, most adorable girl... the family aspect is wonderfully crafted by the author, as per usual. I don't know an author who tells a story so well, balancing characters, family dynamics, funny dialogue and description, namely the nature aspect that this amazing woman always complemented her novels with. Another character, another lovely name. Marigold. I say this in every review but it's true:
the family aspect is wonderfully crafted by the author, as per usual.
I don't know an author who tells a story so well, balancing characters, family dynamics, funny dialogue and description, namely the nature aspect that this amazing woman always complemented her novels with.
The Blue Castle remains my favorite but Marigold is gold as well, just like Anne and Gilbert (my dream husband ahahah).
Recommend Marigold to everyone who wants to visit some wonderful memories of heir childhood.
Ahahaha just like I did when I was her age.
It's like Barbra Streisand used to sing: "Memories...
If you've read any books by L.M. Montgomery before, then you pretty much know what to expect with this one -- and adventurous child growing up during the 1920's in Canada.
But that was the only thing that I had trouble with -- I loved reading about Marigold's adventures, and this book certainly has some laugh-out-loud moments.
Basically, it's a decent enough read if you have the time or if you're a Montgomery fan.
But I would suggest that you read Montgomery's Anne of Green Gables or Emily of New Moon series before you pick up this one.Also posted on  Purple People Readers.
M. Montgomery heroine, until the very last chapter, which is called 'The Chrism of Womanhood' and is pretty much as hideous as it sounds.
I don't exactly disagree with one of the basic ideas, which is that you have to share the people you love with other people and that's what it means to be grown up.
I do object to the other basic idea, which is that it is the fate and sacred duty of Woman to hang around waiting patiently while her man goes off and does whatever -- has fun, does his job, etc.
In fact, it took me years after reading Magic for Marigold to finally go through the Anne series.
But I wasn’t missing any of the beautiful descriptions and joyful depictions of childhood, PEI or small-town life and family, because Magic for Marigold had plenty of all of those.The story begins at the very start of Marigold’s life, when she is known only as the still-unnamed Lesley baby.
Changing perceptions and friends and family happenings making up the storyline, and the adventures of an imaginative, humorous and self-contained little girl make for charming reading.
I love the 'conclaves' in her books about Marigold, Emily, and Valancy, and in A Tangled Web.A sequel for Marigold would be nice...The first half of the book is stronger than the second half, in my opinion, and the ending is a little disappointing.
I love Marigold's 'int'resting, her fancies, Sylvia (how I wish I could believe in an imaginary playmate!), Aunt Marigold's gentle wisdom, Lucifer's comments, and Cloud of Spruce itself.
There is beauty and magic that aches, as usual in LMM's books.***On a third reading, I would like more "magic"--that's the keyword of the title, after all.
She was a boring, lonely girl, and the episodic nature of the book didn't do much in her favor.
Apparently this was cobbled together from short stories about her, and it has that feel, too.
Also, that was a lousy story to end the book on, I'd have liked something a little more pro-Marigold than that.Still, you know, lovely writing and I utterly adored Old Grandmother, despite some inconsistent characterization.
Her final night was lovely, and I liked a lot of what she offered to Marigold in the way of advice.
I liked Marigold and I wish there were more stories about her. She is a bit like Emily... not as passionate, I think... but she is an engaging heroine in her own right. And this is proper LMM - she's on good form here.In fact I liked Marigold so much, that if I'd read about her when I was a child, maybe one of my daughters would share her name. That's a lot of like.
The most mawkish heroine Maud ever created. She is cute beyond cute. Diabetics be warned....
I didn't care for the parade of childhood friends of Marigold's that we were introduced to- I never felt like I got to know any of them well, and most of them I didn't like, except for Jack, who Marigold despised.
More importantly, I never felt like I really got to know Marigold herself, and I was always more interested in the side stories with the adults rather than with going on with Marigold herself.
And there were several things that I felt LM Montgomery rehashed from some of her other books, as well.It had a few good sections (such as Old Grandmother's last night), but this was definitely not a favorite.
As a young girl I worshipped at the altars of Anne Shirley and Emily Byrd Star, so when I saw Magic for Marigold on the shelves of a used book shop, I had to pick it up.
Marigold's magic is likewise underdeveloped: her Green Gate is no Lake of Shining Waters, and her imaginary friend Sylvia has none of the depth of meaning or of character that we saw in Emily-in-the-Glass.Overall, this book is charming and a worthy entry into the annals of young adult fiction, but perhaps not the best representation of Montgomery's delightful heroines.
I love Montgomery's heroines who are ordinary females who get angry, are jealous , make a mess of things and then get up from where they have fallen , flick off the mud and move forward with their heads up , They are always creatures who live in a dreamland and as I think most of us readers are so it is easy enough to identify with them. I loved Marigiold and her friends and enemies. Typical Montgomery.
Not my most favourite Montgomery book
Magic for Marigold is another treat from L.M. Montgomery. It is delightful and full of Montgomery's magic. And I loved the addition of cat's comments.
I never read "Magic for Marigold" as a child (gasp!
out of all the books she had to chose from, little Courtney chose "Magic for Marigold" which I find hilarious.
I felt it when I read her as a child, teen, early adult and I feel it even more now in my thirties.
In this book, I see it in Paula, Paula's father and Uncle Jarvis.Some of my favorite passages:*The entire chapter with young Marigold and Old Grandmother in the orchard."Marigold thought the world a charming place at all times but especially in September, when the hills were blue and the great wheat-fields along the harbour-shore warm gold and the glens of autumn full of shimmering leaves.
boys' roles even if that's typical of the time - but LMM's heroines aren't usually quite like that and I think Marigold has spine for much more, too!).
But I think LMM is excellent at portraying children and Marigold is another lovely example - she's charming in her flights of fancy and her earnestness, but at the same time not too perfect.
The writing is beautiful like in LMM's work in general, though I think the Finnish translation I read it in (couldn't find it in English) wasn't as good as the translations of the Anne or Emily books I'm used to reading.
Marigold is a girl with a big imagination, and this book has plenty of delightful adventures, like the day with the princess, or her trips to various relatives' houses and the like along with her dealing with her emotions (anger, fear, the like).
It's hard to not like Marigold, she tries to be a good girl and she is so spirited that it makes for a irresistible combination.I would have given this five stars if not for the ultimately disappointing end.
However, the ending to this book was a big letdown.
I will admit that Magic for Marigold is not one of my favorite Montgomery novels.
Like all Montgomery heroines, Marigold is imaginative, making "magic" for herself from a variety of sources.
The problem is that she's not much more than that -- she lacks the vitality of Anne, Emily, Valancy, or Jane of Lantern Hill.
Also, she doesn't have the obstacles that Anne and the others do and lacking something major to struggle against, she seems to lack their spirit.
I think perhaps Montgomery didn't put as much of herself into Marigold as into her other heroines.
As she aptly puts it, when you are reading Anne she takes you with her through her childhood but reading Marigold makes you feel you are watching from a distance.
For this reason I don't think I loved it as much as a kid because of the nostalgic feel but now I appreciate it for its merits, especially knowing more about what was going on in LMM's life at the time of her writing.
The chapter where she and Marigold are alone in the orchard is beautiful and haunting and I am glad Marigold carries Old Grandmother's words with her throughout her life.
This was a different Montgomery book in that the heroine was so young and did not get into the scrapes that I was used to reading about. I don't remember too much and may have to re-read this one. But I do remember thinking it was sweet.
However, the real magic is the way Montgomery can instantly take the reader back to their own childhood and make it almost as real as being there.
I have yet to read another author who so eloquently and beautifully describes the feelings, thoughts and imaginations of childhood as well as Lucy Maud.
Her characters always ring true and her books feel like coming home again after a long absence.
Anne was always a kindred spirit to me and while Marigold may be only a "chum" it was still nice to envelope myself in Lucy Maud's charm and coziness.
A wonderfully typical L. M. Montgomery book! Full of purring waves, int'resting people, delightful names, cats, and plates of hop-and-go-fetch-its (which is a type of cookie as far as I could tell). No author makes me laugh out loud like she does :) Uncle Klondike was the cherry on top, though he wouldn't appreciate the comparison...
There wasn’t really a plot to follow as the novel is made up of little episodes from Marigold’s childhood.
She makes the natural world come alive and makes Prince Edward Island seem like the most captivating place in the world.Characters:Marigold was the main character and I loved her to pieces.
Marigold really took the spotlight in this book and there were not really any other characters that stood out for me, although everyone’s characterization was done quite well.Did I Like It?:Yes, I really liked Magic for Marigold.
This was truly a lovely book and had the charm about it that I love in L.M. Montgomery’s novels.Do I Recommend It:?
LMM has repeated a lot of the themes found in her other works: the imaginary friends, the kind aunts who make up in some measure for other deeply unpleasant adult relatives, and the relationships with people of different levels of education and social standing in the community.
It reminds me of the (probably apocryphal) 'advice to a new wife' that was doing the rounds of the internet a few years ago, and that appalling 'Hey, little girl, comb your hair, fix your make-up' song from the 60s!However, by the time Emily of New Moon comes along I think there's evidence of a rather more modern attitude towards women's place in the world.
From the opening chapter, where the Lesley clan argue over what to name the new baby, it is clear this is another beautifully realistic piece of prose from author Lucy Maud Montgomery.
In each chapter, Marigold is getting into a scrape, an adventure, or a new friendship.
From her close friendship with imaginary friend Sylvia, to being confused for the dead daughter of a neighbour, to having a hankering to be a missionary, each and every of Marigold's adventures are different, spicy, and, as Marigold herself would say, 'int'resting'.
Compared to the other Montgomery novels I have read, Magic For Marigold lacks in...
Even though I've never read it before, not even as a child, it felt like a sweet reunion with something that I've loved and known before."Magic for Marigold" is, as the title implies, filled with childhood magic.
Marigold is a charming, fanciful and silly little girl who gets herself into a world of trouble while trying to be as good as she can be.
Therefore the story is filled with wonderful episodes of childish mischief cause by good intentions.
The story concludes with Marigold being a young girl of 13 years, but Montgomery silently hints what lies ahead for Marigold; a world of hope, loss, love and wonder.
When I first started reading Magic for Marigold (one of the LMM-books I bought at PEI) I wasn't really in a Montgomery-mood, but this book sertainly put me into that mood again.
A little girl who lives in her own magic world.
Marigold is besides younger than Anne, also sweeter and quieter.
The book is really about Marigold's journey to the real world and to real people, away from the beautiful imaginary world where she spent the best part of her childhood with her imaginary friend Sylvia...
I loved the book.
A beautiful story about a dreamy little girl.
It's not so much a narrative as a peek through the window into different moments in Marigold's life.It is a place and time that is foreign to us and just that makes it enjoyable.
In a way I actually enjoyed not engaging too much with the main character.
After spending a few weeks obsessed with Anne, Jane and Valancy and relating to every pain of theirs, it was fun to just enjoy the beautiful PEI haze without the complication of taking it too personally.
True to LM Montgomery style, the story is full of interesting characters and stories, fascinating descriptions that come alive on the page.
LM Montgomery is a master at descriptions.
I have noticed that LM Montgomery has a lot of factors in common between most of her stories– they are usually about a little girl with a vivid imagination, they are full of fantastic characters which play on the eccentricity of real life, and they usually have several phrases or ideas that are re-used.
But beyond that, Montgomery’s ability to come up with interesting stories that are unique to each book, with unexpected outcomes, and always mix in her wonderful descriptions, keeps me interested.
I love the "realness" of the people in this book.
I know Marigold is a fanciful name and her friend Sylvia is imaginary, but the foibles and tics of these Islanders seem wrought from everyone Montgomery ever knew or knew about in a way that anything else I have read of hers did not.
I was almost shocked to think that Montgomery knew some of the expressions herein or the goings-on in such isolated places, but, of course she did.
I think I will read her other books again with a different eye.
Lovely, nostalgic story with L.M. Montgomery's tongue-in-cheek wit throughout. Marigold is a sweet, adventurous girl from the early 20th century - a great role model for young girls. Anyone who loves Anne of Green Gables or The Story Girl would love this.
