https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11038.Henry_and_June
Originally, I'd wanted a full volume of her journals, but everything was sold out, so I ended up buying Henry and June...and since I'd never read her before, I thought it would be a good introduction.I am so grateful that this book came into my life when it did.
I wept because my eyes were opened to reality - to Henry's selfishness, June's love of power, my insatiable creativity which must concern itself with others and cannot be sufficient to itself.
Dear Anaïs, You think too much.
You need to act your age.
Get a job.
Honor your marriage vows or get a divorce.
You're like a teenager with a tattered, doodled spiral-bound notebook and a Starbucks prepaid account app.
Or like one of our modern day hipsters, a trustafarian thinking you're so edgy in your ragged velvet dress with the holes in the elbows, going against convention in dive cafés and being bicurious with the friend du jour.
You're not deep.
Or avant-garde.
You're just self-indulgent, inconstant, and annoying.
You're not sucking the marrow out of life; you're just sucking.
She is frightened, but also discovers imprisonment, loneliness in the very heart of her relationship with Hugo, the discovery that love is not enough, that she must now find in herself "all the rest", and that all that could germinate in her henceforth, outside and beyond this sequestration, could no longer stop growing.
She looks for the deep love that will be able to reconcile her with her being, to free her totally, to allow her to finally be "at the height of life".
Henry and June is the type of journal that makes me want to highlight passage after passage...since journals so often have the types of personal reflections that are hard to achieve in pure fiction.
Nin shared her journal with several people—actually, most of the men in her life who she writes about read her journal at some point, with her permission.
At one point in the journal her psychiatrist said to her: “You do not want weak men, but until they have become weak in your hands you are not satisfied.” Though he tended to make annoying generalizations, I think he really nailed that one.
While reading this book, I also felt that this could easily be a novel.At times, her writing, in certain parts of her journals, reminds me of D.
For some vague reasons I could not help thinking of 'Gender Trouble' by Judith Butler; these journals show us what it means to be human in a world of rigidly defined categories– man, women, straight, gay, transgender.
The writing itself shows the reality of human life as ever flowing, ever mobile in sharp contrast to the school of 'realism' which she rejects to embrace and explore the 'real' thing.I strongly recommend her.
I can't remember the first time I read Nin's short stories; I was probably technically a bit too young for that kind of stuff (my mom left all her books laying around and did not really believe in hiding the R-rated material), but I also feel weirdly lucky I was exposed to her writing early because it clearly influenced my ideas about sex in (what I believe to be) a positive way.
Apparently some do, but the description on the back of the Penguin edition about sums up this book, culled from the "unexpurgated" diaries of Ms. Nin during the period in which writer Henry Miller and his wife June Masefield figure large on her horizon: it is a "compelling account of a woman's sexual and emotional awakening." If you don't groan at that charmless phrase, variations of which are so thoughtlessly used to describe any risque tome penned by a woman, you may enjoy "Henry and June" here.
No one comes off well in this - the husband is the world's most oblivious cuckold, the psychoanalyst a bit of a charlatan (surprise!) who secretly lusts for some Nin, the writer a would-be volcano who's disappointingly a kitten at heart, his wife surely a neurotic Fury who'll end up destroying everyone in the end, alas!
While reading this I was thinking that Anais is a narcissistic bitch, which I don't really necessarily hold against her.
On one hand she comes off as so egotistical, spending the majority of her pages on how wonderful other people think she is.
I sense this even when she is raving about Henry and/or June.
But like I said, all this does help make her journals more interesting.She is a good writer, though a bit dramatic and tends to over analyze things.
Reading this I can't help but think I know women like her and this is a great introspective view of what drives them.
I've read "Delta of Venus" and "Little Birds", which I enjoyed, but until I read this I had not realized what an incredible writer Nin is. I also thought it was really interesting to see Henry Miller through her eyes... I have read Miller's "Tropic of Cancer", which i really enjoyed, which is very harsh and honest, but this sort of gives you a different perspective of him. I truly think she is a brilliant writer and am looking forward to reading more of her work.
Anais Nin has been an idol of mine for a long time.
As an adult woman, I was thrilled to read Anais Nin. Intelligent, witty and sexually provocative.
Her writing, in whtever form, always maintains a powerful poetic lexicon.
This excerpt from her personal journal is so very intimate, flux with sexuality, but you feel her grace and delicate vulnerability.
Something deeply personal left for us readers.I also admire Nin because she was an uninhibited sexual being long before it was socially acceptable.
Wait a while." Her thoughts and feelings are confident as she expresses herself, an empowering embodiment of feminism even by today's standards.
I did not experience the profound liberation that I did when reading Henry & June the second time around.
I once considered Nin to be a strong, sexually heroic figure, but now my opinion is that, during this time of her life, she was mostly confused, self-destructive and pawned her behavior off on the idea of naivity.
Hopefully this means I am less confused now than I was 7 years ago.
She is such a complex woman, I identify with so much of her intelect, with her hunger for love and with her powerfully erotic self, every page I read I find something else that applies so well to my life in this moment, my relationships, that it scares me.
I have fallen in love with her whilst reading what she has written about sex - how she discovered it and what it meant for her to be a powerfully erotic woman, more like an animal than a human being, following her instinct and instilling death-bearing passions in the men of her life.
I certainly don't agree with everything Anais says or does, she definitely wallows in self-pity and self-righteousness, and she is frequently a walking contradiction to herself, but it is a journal after all and I kind of always thought that is what journals were for.To me this book was/is completely, utterly, beautiful.
She put things in to words for me that I've never been able to describe before.
I've yet to read a better book about what it actually feels like to be in love with more than one person & the emotional conflicts that result.
Oh wow, what a tale this one is and what an amazing personality Anaïs Nin is. The writing is beautiful and her observations and descriptions are top notch. The only reason this gets 4 stars is due to the amount of repetition in the book. I know that this could be construed as unfair since its a diary and this is probably the way events occurred, but it did get tiring after a while.
I felt possessed in reading this, dominated and entirely taken over in Anaïs Nin and her life...a life which is certainly unlike others, to say the least.Throughout this diary Anaïs Nin had three lovers and one husband (four lovers if you'd like to include June.) Yes, all at the same time.
It reaches levels of intensity in her honesty of feelings and her own quickly shaping moods that I felt almost sickened while reading it...sick, hungry, desirous, and very much turning into a little Nin myself.
And I'll say the same for Henry Miller and D.H. Lawrence, but I personally feel a certain liberation, an excitement and oozing feeling bordering on insanity upon reading from them.
Procurava a figura paterna em homens mais velhos que a fizessem sentir-se amada e protegida.Anais era insegura, não se sentia atraente aos olhos dos homens, mas sentia uma enorme curiosidade por novas experiencias sexuais.
Quando conheceu Henry e June, foi por esta que sentiu uma forte atração.
Amava o marido com ternura, Henry com paixão, de Eduardo tinha pena, por Fred nem sei o que sentia.
Gostei da escrita delicada e emotiva, revela bem a mulher que Anais era, deixando escorrer das palavras paixão e dramatismo de forma intensa.
A relação com o escritor Henry Miller parece-me ser a mais marcante de todas, na verdade.Se estão neste momento a pensar que este livro se trata de um diário marcadamente sexual desenganem-se porque também nos é dado a conhecer todo o enquadramento emocional de Anaïs, sobretudo em virtude das visitas que ela faz ao psicanalista e que são abordadas a partir de determinada altura na obra.
Talvez também porque, de alguma forma, me revi na intensidade emocional (por vezes em demasia) com que Anaïs Nin vive tudo.
Muy interesante, aunque a veces sea un poco lento.
When she came across writer Henry Miller and, later, his wife June Mansfield, she was instantly drawn to the couple.Nin's writings on her obsession with both Miller and Mansfield are, because of her intense emotions and exquisite writing, mostly a joy to read.
When Nin reads Miller from her own notes, she later writes down his response in her journal: "I could only write like that, with imaginative intensity, because I had not lived out what I was writing about, that the living out kills the imagination and the intensity, as happens to him." And when she, during their slightly awkward rendezvous, puts down in words how passionately she feels about Millers wife: "You are like me, wishing for a perfect moment, but nothing too long imagined can be perfect in a worldy way.
Poate fi citit ca jurnal, așa cum a fost scris de autoare, dar poate fi, la fel de bine, un roman erotic foarte reușit.
Încleștările erotice dintre Anaïs și Henry sunt deosebit de explicit reproduse așa că ar putea ultragia priviri și minți prea inocente sau pudice.
;)Oricum, Anaïs Nin pare să fi fost una dintre rarele femei care a descoperit în anii '30 niște trăiri erotice ce rămân încă un mister de nepătruns pentru cele mai multe femei contemporane.
We see a 30 year old Anaïs learning about her art, learning about sexuality and sensuality, learning about love, learning about marriage, learning about her urges for both men and women, learning about truth and lies, learning about passion, and even learning about psychoanalysis.
With her husband: Hugo, the subject of her admiration: June, her lover: Henry, her friend and former lover: Eduardo, and her psychoanalyst: Allendy, we see Anaïs's great capacity for love and passion.
She realizes this and tries to examine herself in the light that others see her.Throughout the year she spends loving Henry Miller, Anaïs tries at once to become June, to win June, and to alleviate the pain that Henry feels as a result of his marriage to June.
Years ago, when I tried to imagine a pure beauty, I had created an image in my mind of just that woman.
Henry faded, She was color, brilliance, strangeness....By the end of the evening I was like a man, terribly in love with her face and body, which promised so much, and I hated the self created in her by others.
Others feel because of her; and because of her, others write poetry; because of her, others hate; others, like Henry, love her in spite of themselves....A startingly white face retreating into the darkness of the garden.
At the end of the book, Nin wonders something to the effect of whether or not she, Henry, and June are just three giant egos fighting each other for dominance.
Although that's simplifying things, my annoyance with this book/her as a person in it was so great that I am tempted to say, "Yes, that's exactly it, good work Anaïs!" It's a diary, so I shouldn't complain too much, but her vacillations of feeling every ten pages, only to arrive at the same feelings she had before she started to question herself, drove me absolutely insane.
I felt like everyone in this book should just have one massive, daylong orgy and get it out of their systems.
"Uma pessoa lê livros e espera que a vida seja igualmente cheia de interesse e intensidade. E, é claro, não é assim. Há muitos momentos monótonos nos intervalos e esses também são naturais."Anaïs Nin descobriu-se como mulher e fez tudo ao seu alcance para saciar a fome de emoções, sentimentos, sexo e intimidade. Descobriu que o amor não escolhe géneros e as várias formas que ele assume permitiu-lhe amar ininterruptamente várias pessoas ao mesmo tempo. "Deixe a sua atitude defensiva, deixe, acima de tudo, os seus receios. Entregue-se"
Através da sua escrita e da sua vida, Anais Nin, explorou os limites da paixão e da sexualidade.Uma mulher que amou e sofreu demais, leva-nos numa maravilhosa viagem por um mundo de erotismo, romance, sensualidade, paixão, dramatismo, fantasia…"Não procures os porquês - no amor não há porquês, não há razões, nem explicações…"
I wept because my eyes were opened to reality - to Henry's selfishness, to June's love of power, my insatiable creativity which must concern itself with others and cannot be sufficient to itself.You know, I just can't decide whether I empathise with Nin or whether I really find her self-indulgent and narcissistic.
These diaries (taken from a far larger set of journals) show her at her, arguably, most operatic: they're dramatic and self-dramatising as a restless Nin vascillates between lovers: her husband, Hugo; her cousin, Eduard; Henry Miller, the writer, and his wife June.
Through Nin's writing and life she explored the depths of sexuality and passion.
She wrote eloquently about the struggle to create in a society where that was not valued, and especially not for women.
Nin's life is pretty fascinating, as she had two husbands.
She was not political, but she questioned and challenged the prevailing attitudes and values of society in ways that few women did.
Her life aligned with the sexual liberation that was part of the second wave of feminism.
Mostly, I honor her quest to be true to the higher calling of an artist and for her perception in identifying the hypocrisy of society.
What have I learned from Henry and June?
I have learned that if I am going to have a flaming affair with Henry Miller, to avoid the crap out of his narcissistic, borderline-personality wife June.
After all, what's a diary about 30s Paris without a highly charged emotional and sexual menage?
28 year old Anais Nin yearns for creative and sexual awakening.
Her eight year marriage to Hugo Gullier has become stale.
Henry is crude, brash, intelligent, loving, and the total antithesis of Hugo.
Henry is also having serious issues with his bisexual, femme fatal wife June.
Reading Henry and June inspired my mind to wander back to all the great hours I shared with one of my favorite lovers.
In fact, thinking about it right now makes me feel...waaaarmmm.I'd been trying to wean myself off a chemical dependency I'd acquired--from the smell of my lover's sex sweat.
Shame on me.Henry and June had me craving the good sex.
Sex is one of my favorite ways to get to know someone incredibly attractive or charming and funny.
I want to have sex with someone just like Henry Miller.
Either way I'm sure the sex would be really good.
Reading Nin’s exploration of the interior, hidden self has become essential to my own growth & discovery but I am now weary of her narcissism. She cannot have a relationship or even encounter a man without attempting to seduce him *rolls eyes*
