https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32501.Echo_Park
Through the years, Harry has periodically returned to the case and questioned the suspect, to the point where the suspect's father has secured a restraining order against Bosch.Now, out of the blue, a man arrested for a series of murders has admitted to killing Gesto as well.
As the principal investigator in the Gesto case, Harry is involved in the negotiations and is stunned to learn that he may have missed an important clue years earlier that could have prevented several additional murders.With that, the book is off and running, and it's another great ride.
He and Kiz Rider are partnered in the Open-Unsolved Unit, working cold cases.
One of the them, the 13-year old missing persons case of Marie Gesto, has plagued Harry since he was originally assigned to the investigation.
This story went sideways, upside down and rightside up again.
I didn't know who to believe or trust and was just riveted to the story.
Also, there's a point where I finally got why women eventually leave Harry, which was a big "aha" moment for him and me.
Despite the sentiments of the women in his life, I'm still wild about Harry.
Can't wait for the next story!
Harry's at his best again, getting into all kinds of trouble, running headlong into danger, never thinking about other people until after the event.
I love reading about him but I get why all the women in his life leave him too!This is the second book I have read this week where we are positively falling over all the dead bodies.
I think Harry only kills one of them himself but he certainly causes several more.
A bit of a twist in the tale:)A lovely read for a very hot summer's day spent curled up in the air conditioning.
If you're into Noir than this TV series is a must see.Connelly has a knack for writing suspenseful tales that take quite a few twists and turns before being resolved with a stellar Who-Done-It that has most readers guessing till the very end (at least in his earlier books).Heironymous (Harry) Bosch, the hero in this series, is named after a Renaissance painter who specialized in earthly sins, debauchery, fanciful and gruesome visions of hell, violent consequences from high above if not detailed looks at the tortures reserved for earthly residents.
[...]Compare that to the later books in the series where we find a Harry Bosch notably mellower in his older age, where we find endings easily guessed at, where procedure begins to trump a superb plot.
The Hook - “I’m working my way through you Bosch.”The Line - ”“It was the little questions that always bothered him, filled the hollow inside with dread.”The Sinker - Echo Park was truly my favorite of Harry Bosch Series thus far.
Bosch is working a 1993 cold case, the disappearance of twenty-two year old Marie Gesto.
The recent Bosch TV Series covers elements of Echo Park but can’t come close to capturing the raw tension of the written work.
I always learn something new about Harry Bosch with each book in the series.
In Echo Park I learned Harry’s a boxer shorts guy.
Bosch is well rounded by this stage, book 12 in the series, and you know his character and determination will see him through but Michael Connelly still throws in a number of surprises and intriguing plot points to make this anything but a paint by numbers crime novel.
The start of this book really intrigued me; a serial killer confessing to a cold case which Bosch is adamant another guy did.
Things did tail off at the end and some of the intrigue went but I still really enjoyed this book.
Love this series and always happy to pick them up.
With Harry now back working Open/Unsolved cases with his partner Kiz, he feels better than he has in a while.
However, one of Harry's past cases which has haunted him is coming back in a big way with it looking like a serial killer may have been behind his victim's disappearance.
Every one of these books is about a year after the previous one, so we know it's been about a year since Harry has been back in Open/Unsolved with Kiz. Bosch eventually reconnects with an old love interest, Rachel Walling.
I really enjoyed the brief Lincoln Lawyer series, but Bosch is one I always think, between readings, that I probably actually enjoyed more than I did.
I think well, not bad, and I should give him more credit because he's a reasonable character competently written.
So by the time I get around to doing some Bosch catch-up, because there are never enough new books in the various series I really look forward to, I e convinced myself that this time Bosch is really going to speak to me.
In Bosch's defense, as I listened to this story I realized I had read it before, quite a few years ago.
To the next Bosch catch-up in the queue.
And so I continue this incredible series with book number 12, Echo Park. I can’t believe I’ve read so many books featuring Harry Bosch already, I am dreading reaching the most recent book in this series. Echo Park was another masterclass in how to write crime fiction. The authenticity is present on every single page. Characterisation is brilliant. Bosch continues to evolve as a character, once again the job comes between him and a potential partner (the fantastic Rachel Walling, and the scenes b
I can’t believe I’ve read so many books featuring Harry Bosch already, I am dreading reaching the most recent book in this series.
Bosch continues to evolve as a character, once again the job comes between him and a potential partner (the fantastic Rachel Walling, and the scenes between these two are at times reminiscent of Reacher and Neagley.
On an emotional level this book contains some of the most hard-hitting scenes I’ve read in a Connelly novel and honestly, there’s not much to fault in this entire story.
As with any great series such as this, the closing scenes in the story are always incredibly bittersweet.
The District Attorney has now contacted Harry about the case against Raynard Waits.
In hopes of not getting the death penalty, Waits has offered a deal to give up the whereabouts of several bodies, including Marie Gest.
Harry doesn't like the idea of taking the death penalty off of the table, but wants to bring Marie's body back to her family.
I loved the idea of Harry working to solve one of his old cases.
But I thought the first half of this book really dragged.
Finally at the half way point this book got very interesting.
2.5 stars
Harry, Harry, Harry.
If you did I wouldn't have much to read about.
Hard to believe that I was thinking that book number one was the only one of the series I would read because I didn't particularly like Harry.
But my buddy Harry R.
I got snagged, hook, line and sinker by Harry Bosch.
While I like to read a series beginning at the beginning, readers of the Bosch series can jump in at just about any time so if you see a Bosch on sale at the used book store, grab it and introduce yourself to Harry.
The case is further complicated by the political ambitions of a future DA candidate Richard O'Shea and when a dangerous life threatening  situation develops on a field trip Bosch is annoyed and confused over the lies and deceit directed towards him.
That's what he always said.".....He always gets results but he is a maverick and as such his stubbornness and gung ho attitude creates dangerous and politically damaging situations for the LAPD Rachel Walling must look within herself and question whether she is prepared to accept and indeed love a police officer who appears to go through each day without fully understanding how his dangerous conduct affects those around him..."Are you saying all is forgiven?
Normally, I'd mark down for that, but this is the 16th book in the HB Universe & the story still managed to surprise me a couple of times even with Connelly's masterful foreshadowing.The characters were well done again.
Harry was the most interesting, of course.
(view spoiler)[I'm referring to the end where the bad guys wind up dead, of course.
He knew, but if they had played it differently, one or both of the bad guys could have skated.
(hide spoiler)]My first review contains the Harry Bosch Universe chronology including all the short stories in their proper order here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Here is the reading order around this one.
This was a great return to form for Connelly and Bosch.
I enjoyed this book version of Echo Park, somewhat different from the parts combined with City of Bones to create the superb Amazon TV series, BOSCH: A wonderful mix, refreshing and extremely well produced and written show.I also enjoyed Rachel Walling a lot more in Echo Park.
She has her own views, often different from Bosch, but able to accommodate his strong ideas without losing herself.
Kizmin has her role for a while, and will return again in other ways.All-in-all, a very long awaited return to form.
Michael Connelly never fails to deliver. His Harry Bosch series just keeps getting better and better. Usually series tend to get a bit repetitive after so many books but not Bosch - the curve balls just keep on coming. Long may it continue.
Whew! I finally got to read the other half of the story in the Bosch TV series season 1. And the book does not disappoint.The book has a complex, multi-layered story that unfortunately did not make it into the video version. I loved how there were conspiracies within conspiracies. The mystery is great (especially if one has not watched it before) with massive red herrings. And there is the unique Bosch twist at the end.So, overall, another great Bosch story.
it makes them look like the criminals they are pursuing, which is after all the whole premise of the genre.
so many mysteries are like that and that's maybe one of the reasons why i don't read mysteries.
the main reasons why i don't read mysteries, though, is that you don't get enough of the characters' own psychology, and, generally speaking, there's no growth, no evolution, no learning curve in them.
they are about evil and perversion and the two faces of criminality.but this book kept me out of the deep waters and close to the shore for a good four days and this alone makes it very dear to me.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThis is #12 in the Harry Bosch series of mystery/thrillers, and it's the last one I will be reading.
It's what makes series books appealing, on the one hand, that comfortable familiarity; but too much of it loosens my grip on the give-a-damn lever.Now that Harry's in the unsolved crimes unit, he runs across a 13-year-old case of his that's bugged him and worried him because he feels sure there's something he and/or his partner missed.
Enter a convicted killer facing death, willing to cop to the crime.
Trouble is, Harry's not at all sure he did it.So there you have it.
Another 5 star book from Michael Connelly. Another Harry Bosch installment that kept me on my toes the whole way through. Of course I got it wrong... no matter how hard I try, I can never pin the bad guy. Harry Bosch is awesome as always, but I wonder if Rachel was right at the end. What choices will Harry make next in his life? WOW is all I can say.
Not a bad thing, but I feel it doesn't have some of the darkness of previous stories, at least concerning Harry himself.As for the plot, that's plenty dark.
A 13-year old murder, one which has kept drawing Harry back in time and again over the years, suddenly opens wide and Harry and his partner Kiz are called in to review the case in light of a shock confession.
To make matters worse, it seems Harry and his partner at the time messed up and let the killer slip through their fingers.
Another right good Bosch book with many twists and turns - the endings fool me every time, how does he keep coming up with them ? This continues to be a great series.
If you decide to read it, make sure you have some time off!There are three threads to this book that Connelly weaves together masterfully, always playing fair with the reader.
Fans of "The Lincoln Lawyer" will appreciate references to Mickey Haller and Cecil Dobbs.Michael Connelly juggles these three elements, uncoiling his plot chapter by chapter in a way that makes it difficult for the reader to put the book down.
Connelly presents a realistic take on the L.A.P.D., adds and removes characters in his series to get the reader to move on to the next book to find out what happens next with Harry, plays fair all along, and ends up with a credible and entertaining ending.
RATING: 4.5/5 StarsThis is actually 12th in a 21-series but each can be read as a standalone as each story features one crime story being told by the infamous Detective Harry Bosch.
Now, 13 years later, Harry got a call from a District Attorney saying a man named Raynard Waits, accused of 2 murders is willing to confess about other murders including Marie Gesto's murder.
I've read about this character so many times before that I knew him by heart, and I'm glad that the author did a good job in developing Harry Bosch.
When a cold case goes hot Harry Bosch and his partner Kiz Rider end up escorting a confessed serial killer on a walk about to find remains.
Harry teams up with Rachel Walling and disobeys direct orders to find the missing murderer, but even his capture doesn't resolve all the mysteries.
Parts of this story were used in the Amazon series Bosch.(original review 2012)This was my second Michael Connelly book and my first Harry Bosch.
I am now playing catch up with as many as I can before the new book comes out later this month.
Michael Connelly has been added to permanent list.
The Open-Unsolved Unit is a perfect fit for Harry Bosch, the quintessential dog-with-a-bone detective. In Echo Park, Harry is finally able to work full-time on a case which has haunted him for over a decade and which he had revisited many times over the years.
Enjoyable read with a great plot, tight writing and a thrilling pace. Definately a series that keeps up the quality.
Pretty good. Kiz (partner) may quit after injury.Nmkt library.
The 12th book in the Harry Bosch series.Another faced paced page turner and plenty of suspense.Trouble certainly follows Harry Bosch.
It had been a while since I had read one of these books, just enough time to have forgotten the pattern.
Man, this was fun to read up to a point.
Forget face value.
Could this many people really have it out for a retired cop working cold cases?
Is there no forgive and forget in this LA universe?Nope.
Edge of seat action sequencing with Bosch almost getting it and his partner seriously injured in the quest to visit a burying ground of a victim from 13 years earlier, a Bosch unsolved case.
And even romance turns its back on our beleaguered ex-homicide cop.
