https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128940.The_Persian_Pickle_Club
This was such a sweet and great book that took a turn I didn't see coming.
First of all, Sandra Dallas did an impeccable job of setting the mood.
The Persian Pickle Job is our focal point of interest and we are rather quickly introduced to all of the women in this quilting club.
I very much enjoyed following these two women, and I was surprised when halfway through the book, the story took a turn and I started forming a lot of questions in my head.
All of my questions were answered, and I understood why Sandra Dallas had taken the story in the direction she did.
My grandparents and great-grandparents, the Butlers and the Fouts, owned farms probably on the exact land Sandra Dallas places her story.
The stories "Bean", as my grandfather was known (omigosh, "Queenie Bean" a coincidence?), and my father told me of growing up in the depression echoed the sincere care, concern, and poverty-stricken generosity neighbors shared during that time.How the ladies treated Rita and strangers is exactly the way my great-aunts would act.
Even the phrases of speech must be verbatim remembrances from Ms. Dallas' research.
Knowing my relatives from the depression generation, the solution to the mystery is quite conceivable.The story was a pleasant read but obviously I saw nuances in it that the normal reader cannot appreciate.
I didn't really understand where the book was headed until half way down, and I was very surprised how it was directed to a mystery and I really didn't see the end coming.
I gave it 4 stars because around the half way mark, it got a bit confusing and it was lacking a certain direction with characters and story all over the place.
So, if you feel the same, please keep going :) It's a short book you can read in a day or two.
And it's a perfect, warm friendship story for a sunny day :)
I put off reading this for a long time, only because of the silly title. But it is a short one from a favorite author, Sandra Dallas, so I thought I would squeeze it in as a quick summer read.This book was a little gem. Friendships, family, murder in a close-knit, struggling farming community, a little romance, loyalty, and did I mention it is short? The quilting stories were my favorites, and some tugged at my emotions.
Her insecurities felt like my insecurities--the way she longed for and loved her friends, the way she baked and visited to solve problems, and even her marriage.Queenie is a member of the Persian Pickle club--a quilting club of ladies in rural Kansas I think around the 1930s.
When a new member joins, Rita--modern woman who hates farming and quilting, Queenie befriends her, thinking to replace a friend who had just moved away.
But Rita is determined to solve a local murder, which ends up alienating people and eventually putting her and Queenie in danger.
I can't tell you how much I loved this book.
This book was recommended to me awhile ago and I happened to see it at the library, so I picked it up.
The group is so large that most of the time I had no idea who was who except for the few main ones.
I almost quit about 1/2 way through, but then I read a review that said it would pick up about that time.
The big mystery was not that mysterious and I had an idea of what it was well before the end of the book.
FYI: Persian pickle refers to an old time quilter's term for a paisley pattern. The first person story takes place in a small dust bowl community with a focus on the long time members of a quilting club. There is a bit of a murder mystery and some historic attitudes and slang.
Luckily, Queenie is a member of The Persian Pickle Club, a group of women that meet weekly to share gossip, refreshments, fabric scraps, stitches, and friendship.
I picked up Sandra Dallas' The Persian Pickle Club because of the unique title but, noting that it was a historical fiction novel set in the Dirty Thirties/Dust Bowl era, it's synopsis hooked me pretty easily.
Usually I'll gravitate to pretty atmospheric historical fiction, novels that plunge you right in to an era.
This came recommended from a friend who's recommended other books to me in the past -- ones I would normally have completely bypassed, like The Help and Water For Elephants. I enjoyed this book as well & was thoroughly entranced by the characters! I was also wildly amused at my own reactions to the farming culture that apparently also runs pretty deep in my own history -- I recognized my grandmothers' experiences in many of the Pickles' own!
Set amidst the Dust Bowl and the Great Depression Queenie and the members of the Persian Pickle Club pass the time helping each other and their community by quilting blankets to raise money for charity.
Through it all quilting binds the women together and becomes the one reliable thing they have in such trying times.
Truly a wonderful novel that beautifully illustrates the hardships endured during the great depression and women's thankless role in getting through it.
Honestly I was also intrigued by the quilting parts as well, I wouldn't mind trying my hand at a small square.
I have written this review two different times only to have them erased by accident.
Many stories have been handed down through generations by narrating the story, other stories were written down, and still others were told by piecing together a quilt made from wore out clothing the family had worn or special pieces given to the quilter by a friend.
Afterwards I set there for a long time remembering the quilts my mother had made and how each piece told the story of our family.
I need to keep some of the clothes I have been holding on to and make a family quilt of my own.
Great book! About a sewing club in a small town. How the women love each other and take care of each other when they need too. There is a murder aspect to the story as well. So fun. Good book club book.
This is excellent! I enjoyed reading this one and I will definitely check out more of Sandra Dallas's work. I enjoyed the characters in this book and the story.
The newest member of the club, Rita, who's really not much of a sewer wants to be a newsreporter and so sets about trying to solve the mystery of who murdered the man.
The other women in the club all had distinct personalities but I couldn't really connect with any of them and they all seemed to have only one or two traits that made them different and that's what the author focused on, instead of making the character a whole person.
I was looking for something a little warmer and this book was just lukewarm and kind of stale to me.The Persian Pickle ClubCopyright 1995196 pagesReview by M.
I was born and raised in Iowa, which is just a hoot and a holler from Kansas, and I'm a selftaught quilter, so I thought, what's not to love?Unfortunately, it just didn't work for me, not really.
At one point, Grover says, "I don't expect he'll do anything", when it would be more natural for a man from Kansas to say "I don't think he'll do anything." We didn't end remarks with "I expect," either--more likely "I suppose" or even "I guess." Kansas is not in the South, Ms Dallas--it is smack dab in the middle of the country, no matter how you slice it.
The Persian Pickle Club takes an entirely different approach by showcasing a community of people that have very little but share what they have.I was impressed by Dallas' characters because she succeded in creating an environment of need and deprivation without presenting a group of people who acted deprived.
One thing that intrigued me about the women in the Persian Pickle Club was how very ordinary they were.
For me, that is the take-away from this book.
The friendship was collective, and very powerful.Fair warning: Don't mess with a group of committed women.

I thought I had read this when it first came out and I remember not liking it - I thought it was wonderful this time around. I had trouble keeping all of the Pickle ladies straight and who was related to whom, so I wrote up a chart. That made the story SO much easier to follow. This book is about friendship through and through. It really made me look at my friendships and to value those friends for who they are and not critize for what they are not. Sandra Dallas did it again!
We read this for book club this month, and I think it's going to be a really fun discussion! It was a super quick read (only took me a day), but the story is so strong and the writing is so clear... it was enjoyable throughout. I loved each character and could really see them in my mind. Of course the main character, Queenie, had such a great voice, it was hard to put the book down once I started it. There's a twist and surprise around every corner. Definitely worth reading.
I struggled with the character development. I kept asking myself, "Now, who is this person?"If you find the beginning a bit slow, keep going until you get to the murder mystery. Then things get entertaining!
3.5 ** I absolutely adored this sweet little book. It was such a fun cozy read that really focused on the value of female friendships. Perfect read for summer and I can't wait to chat about this one with the ladies from my book club!
Entertaining but...... that ending???!!! Hmmmm...... Thanks for the suggestion, Toni! I see why you needed to discuss this one :-)
"But when any one of us was in need, she got the support and understanding that a man never provided. There wasn’t anything we couldn’t share or a secret we wouldn’t keep. "Pretty much sums up this book.
I enjoyed reading this book. The only thing was it was hard to get into in the beginning but the further I got the better the book got. It was a good short read.
I didn’t expect this book at all.
I expected it to be folksy.
I didn’t feel like Ella or Rita were as developed, but it wasn’t overly bothersome.
If a straight woman can have a manic pixie dream girl, I’d say that’s what Rita was for Queenie.
Rita’s main purpose seemed to be the development of Queenie’s character and to drive the plot forward.
The book was also very relatable.
The awkward moments Queenie had with Rita as Rita (in my opinion) undervalued her pregnancy felt like so many moments I’ve had.
I would recommend this book to anyone.
I thought this was a cute story about ladies who were in a quilting club in the 1930's.I did enjoy reading a book based in a different time and culture (Kansas farmers).
I felt like I really only knew a slim few of the characters and the story might have had such a more climatic ending had the other Pickle Club ladies been more developed.Interesting plot about a murder in a small town and how town history comes into play.
Interesting to look at different cultures and how they do things.
First let me say that this is a clean and wholesome book, and I can recommend it to anyone.
But then suddenly, about three-fourths of the way in, there's a swear word!
However, it is in an extreme scene where the use of the word can be justified, so I chose not to take offense.
All the ladies at the book club agreed.
This is a good book, it teaches you of a particular chapter in American history, and you can feel comfortable to recommend it to your own book club.
It takes a look at the lives of women living in Kansas during the depression.
I also liked the book because it reminds us that even people living "simple" lives can have a strong understanding of those around them.
They didn't have to read books to learn about the struggles families or individuals have.
In small communities lives are not private and those books might be great but others lives are just as interesting.
Now of course depending on which struggles someone has this could be seen as an assett or a detriment- but either way life lessons are learned by both young and old.
I am a fan of Sandra Dallas' books. The Persian Pickle Club is a quilting club whose quirky female members live in Harleyville, Kansas in the 1930s. It is a dry season and crops are few. Times are hard. Each week they meet to quilt, gossip and share their problems. There is a mystery to be solved and each member has their own ideas. This was a quick, satisfying read with a surprise ending.
I just recently read this book again and it was like visiting an old friend. I love the development of Queenie, and through her eyes, the development of her friends in The Persian Pickle Club. This book is about friendship, loyalty, longing, and a bit of mystery, set in the Depression era. There's a twist to the story that makes you keep reading. It's an easy and very enjoyable read. It is totally appropriate for moms to recommend to their teen-aged daughters to read as well.
