https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1169808.The_Fury
I can't say anything about this series I haven't already said.I love it.The end.♥
After finishing book three of the Vampire Diaries, and liking it considerably more than the first two installments, I noticed the irony of the titles and how I felt about each book.The Awakening - I never woke up for it.The Struggle - I struggled to get through it.The Fury - I was gonna be really irritated if this book wasn't moderately better than the first two.Thank you!
Ew.But the story was better; I liked how it turned out (and hated it, too) which means I was finally becoming attached to the town and its characters.
The Fury, The Vampire Diaries #3Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsI enjoyed this book a-lot more than the first two, it was constantly engaging and I found myself actually being excited and anticipating what was to come.I had my theories of who the 'big bad' was in this book, and I was right!
thank you TV showI connected a-lot more to the characters in this one, and really just enjoyed them all a whole lot more!My sister actually was my own personal audiobook and read aloud to me for about 30 pages because I'm sick and my eyes hurt too much to read.
It's great having a sister :')The ending was so intense/confusing, and I'm so interested to see how book 4 plays out!
Read this in high school and really enjoyed it! That's about all I can remember.
The book was really nice. So touching. I didn't liked the end, though. Elena never actually got to tell Damon that she loved him. I would have like to see his reaction to those words. The Stefan-Damon end was really touching. The last line was really beautiful. There's not enough of Damon in the book as I'd have liked but I really hope we get to see more of him in the next.
I am giving this book a generous 4 stars.
The onle reason its not a three is a semi-unexpected twist toward the end.
I hope to read more about him as the series continues.
Stefan is way to angsty from beginning to end and I have a feeling he always will be.
The story once again seemed rushed and too short.
Lot of unnessessary thoughts that were not even character developing and not enough story.
It is fun, and easy reading though and the pace is quick so I still had some fun reading and will continue with the series.
[Quoted from this book:] Finish it, his weary voice said in her mind.Elena hesitated for an instant. There was something about those eyes that called up memories inside her. Standing in the moonlight, sitting in an attic room… But the memories were too vague. She couldn’t get a grasp on them, and the effort made her dizzy and sick.And this one had to die, this green-eyed one called Stefan. Because he’d hurt him, the other one, the one Elena had been born to be with. No one could hurt him and li
[Quoted from this book:]
Finish it, his weary voice said in her mind.Elena hesitated for an instant.
There was something about those eyes that called up memories inside her.
Standing in the moonlight, sitting in an attic room… But the memories were too vague.
She couldn’t get a grasp on them, and the effort made her dizzy and sick.And this one had to die, this green-eyed one called Stefan.
Because he’d hurt him, the other one, the one Elena had been born to be with.
No one could hurt him and live.She clamped her teeth into his throat and bit deep.
This review is just for "The Fury" which is book three in the "Vampire Diaries" series.
This series continues to surprise me.
I know it is the logical outcome of spending time with vampires, but when it happened in book two I was surprised.
How would there be a need to continue the Vampire Diaries.
I read the first chapter or two of the next book and kind of see where it may be going.
One thing that continues to throw me is how different it is than the TV series the CW is running.
Better than the 1st two books. The story was more interesting with a bit more suspense + the characters finally improved. I didn't like how it started but it improved a bit later (once Elena was back in her senses to be precise). The characters were still kind of annoying but they had improved a lot when comparing to the previous 2 books. I especially like the ending of the book...the diary entry by Bonnie was a nice touch.
To the pretties who are obsessed with vampires,I don't know... When I started this series I guess I was expecting this quality. And yes I know that not all vampire fiction can be as awesome as Vampire Hunter D, but I was expecting a lot more out of Smith on Vampire Diaries. Her Night World series was so much better in: plot, romance, and overall character. I'm baffled as to the reason why this show has done so well on the CW/WB.Instead by the end of this installment I literally was like Captain
To the pretties who are obsessed with vampires,I don't know...
When I started this series I guess I was expecting this quality.
And yes I know that not all vampire fiction can be as awesome as Vampire Hunter D, but I was expecting a lot more out of Smith on Vampire Diaries.
Her Night World series was so much better in: plot, romance, and overall character.
I'm baffled as to the reason why this show has done so well on the CW/WB.Instead by the end of this installment I literally was like Captain Kirk throwing a fit because the laser beam missed its mark.
Lots of Love, shizuku
Read more bookish goodness on my book blog: Cal's YA Reads4.75/5.I just can't give it that extra .25 star, and I don't know why.
I just know it isn't exactly a favourite like my other 5 star books.
Or maybe it is.
I may change it in a couple of hours.This book was haunting.
It had brilliant writing, and nothing was predictable.
It had angst and comfort, and tbh the romance was at its low.
But I'm not complaining.
Because we got an amazing dose of Katherine.Oh, Katherine.
I could not put the book down.Amazing sequel!
يبدأ هذا الجزء حيث انتهى الجزء السابق ..تتحول الينا لمصاصة دماء ...وتواجه البلدة خطرا كبيرا ..تقرر الينا ان على الثلاثي الينا ، ستيفان، ودايمن التعاون ..تعاون قد ينهار بأي لحظة نظرا لخلافات الأخوين سلفاتوري ..ومع تحريات أصدقاء الينا بالمدرسة تتأكد الشكوك .هناك قوة جديدة وخطيرة ومعادية للبلدة ككل ..في لحظة درامية يتم اشراك أستاذ التاريخ الجديد " ألاريك "لن استرسل أكثر ..هذا الجزء كان أفضل بكثير من الجزأين السابقين ...رغم غموض النهاية ...سأقرأ الجزء الرابع قريبا ... :)
I.HATE.KATHERINE
THESE BOOKS ARE SO CONFUSING but creepy and very clever. The foreshadowing is on point.
It's sad...it just so sad...
Oh why younger me? Why? Think of all the money you wasted on these things....
I probably liked this part the most. Elena has really grown as a character. Plus, the ending was cool. Hah, I already started reading the fourth book. That says something, I guess.
When it comes to The Vampire Diaries, however, I knew that LJ Smith and her series had been around before Twilight and that claims were made about how it seemed hard to believe that Meyer hadn't read Smith's series, given certain similarities.
If you really want the teenage vampy thing, go to Twilight, then Netflix the first season of The Vampire Diaries (though I haven't seen this, so I can't offer an opinion), or try reading Vampire Academy, but be aware that it's a very different world and you're dealing with very different vampires.
Until finally, everything that was building up started to happen...
It was incredibly upsetting for me to get that far into it and finally have something happens that really grips my attention only for it to come to such a fast conclusion.
It's beyond frustrating as, if I remember correctly, this has happened in every book so far.
I think I have talked about the writing with the previous two books as well, but it is not any better here.
In fact, I think there are middle-grade books that have better, more detailed writing than this series does.
That’s not entirely surprising considering how much room she had to improve, but it’s still motion upwards.I do not like the love triangle, not even slightly.
Even working on the fact that Damon isn’t quite as evil as everyone imagined, that still leaves him pretty damn evil.
Other than his physical appearance, what about Damon has Elena fallen in love with?
Give me one feature of his personality, one element of his character, one action he has performed that makes him a viable love interest for Elena?There’s nothing – this romance has no foundation.
But now she finds the idea of choosing between Damon and Stefan so damn hard?
Third part of the original trilogy.
Very nice and this time Elena becomes Vampire and it's how she goes and deals with her new feelings.
As the gangs deals with Elena's new reality and also the fact that all the going ons are not Damon's doing.Bonnie's power are explained, Real bad guy comes forward.
And the ones who have been the show they would be waiting for the different characters to appear.
It's the fun if you watch the TV or Movie before the book and also true if you read the book first.While I continue the series, you can pick this or read others and then keep on reading.
Si bien Stefan no me gusta [al menos, no como pretendiente de Elena :3] me cae bien, pero sigo sin poder decir mucho de él.Y de nuevo, una de las mejores cosas del libro fue Damon.
Cada vez que él aparecía me sacaba una sonrisa, y no sólo por lo divertido que era <3 Me gustó mucho que apareciera más, PERO QUIERO MÁS :p El triangulo amoroso me resultó mucho más entretenido que en los libros anteriores ya que Damon va tomando más protagonismo y Elena no sólo piensa en Stefan.Pero lo mejor de Furia fue el final, no lo vi venir.

This book was awesome and i am not saying that just because of it's plot twists but also because of it's ending.Now as much as i would love to hate the ending i just can't force myself. It turned into a really nice trilogy with a good ending.
Αφελέστατο και πολύ σύντομο. Η πλοκή θα είχε αναπτυχθεί καλύτερα σε περισσότερες σελίδες.
I read this third installment. I found it okay. I didn't think it was amazing. I liked the ending. I wasn't blown away though. I don't find the plot to be as blazing as I had hoped. I am still struggling with whether I am more affected by the tv show and therefor the books are a let down? I would love to hear from anyone who has read one and seen the show. I am at a crossroads as to whether or not to read any more.
With the books I hated most of the characters from book one, and only continued on because I’d been brought the first four books (yeah, I do love to subject myself to torture).If I read this comment from another person I would probably roll my eyes, yet in this situation the television show is so much better.Seriously, I have never hated a main character so much – and it only gets worse as the series goes on.Book two was a slight improvement on book one, and book three was a slight improvement on book two.
StefanTormented after losing Elena, he's determined to end the feud with his brother, Damon--whatever the cost.DamonMocking Stefan and Elena, he laughs in the face of doom.ElenaWild with her craving for blood, she confronts the ultimate evil.The terrifying story of two vampire brothers and the beautiful girl torn between them.Genre: Paranormal romance, YAPages: 256Published: 1991The Vampire Diaries #3Something evil is in town.
People think Stefan is a murderer, and Elena is a vampire.
Stefan is a bore as usual, and Damon, yes he is wicked isn't he.Best part about this book, the end!
Oh and Damon, still my favourite..have I mentioned that ;)Yes I will read more, just to see if she is a fool to pick Stefan.
If I could only give you one reason to read this book, I would tell you read it for the ending.
It was tragic, intense and so filled with emotion that it really turned the whole series around.
The most tragic part of the whole thing was the fact that she never gets to deal with her emotions towards Damon.
We had been flirting with this since the very first book about what she felt for each brother....and she never got to at the end.
Well, this was definitely better than the first two books in the series!
It was MUCH more entertaining to read and I found less of an urge to just skim.
There was a lot more happening than in the previous books, the characters were a lot more intriguing and the writing itself just felt better.
However, I really think Damon is a fun and dark character and definitely adds a lot to the story.
This book has left me with more of a desire to read on, even if it still only ended up with three stars.
