https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/936035.The_Mystery_of_Swordfish_Reef
Despite the obstacles - or perhaps because he had to overcome so many - he has evolved into a top-notch investigator; one who has never failed to close a case.At home in the Outback, "The Mystery of Swordfish Reef" takes Bony into unfamiliar territory: The sea is foreign to him and he cannot use his innate senses to follow tracks and chase down clues on the surface of constantly shifting water.Or can he?The case has baffled local authorities for months by the time Bony enters the scene.
Also, Bony rolls his own cigarettes and everyone smokes, but that too was part of the era.)I think I enjoyed the re-read (listen) of The Mystery of Swordfish Reef more now because of my having gained some experience with fishing for and catching Alaska king salmon, admittedly a smaller fish than the marlin, but still a strong fighter when you try to reel one in against the current of a fast-flowing river.
The description of the swordfish fishing events in this book are so well done that I could indeed imagine the feel of catching a big fish.I highly recommend all of the mysteries featuring Australian detective Napoleon Boneparte (known as Bony to his friends).
Some days later, the captain of a fishing trawler finds amongst his catch the head, complete with bullet holes, of the missing angler, a Mr Ericson visiting from UK.
Three months later, Bony is called in to investigate, as Mr Ericson was a good friend of the NSW Police Commissioner.
Thus Bony manages to combine his investigative work on a very interesting case with the opportunity to try his hand at sword-fishing: one does, after all, have to examine the scene of the crime!
Upfield packs his story with much information about big game fishing, as well as touching on twins, weather, visibility and coastal currents.
This mystery takes place in an environment new to Bony whose normal investigations have been restricted to crimes in the bush.
While he does his investigation to solve the crime, he begins deep sea fishing and lands some outstanding fish.Upfield is a fun author whose mysteries featuring Bony are fun to read.
Bony's bush talents are of little help as he works to solve the disappearence of a fishing boat and its occupants.
And, so the story begins and to his delight, Bony learns to deep sea fish.
Ever wonder what it's like to go swordfish fishing? Bony (Napoleon Bonaparte, the detective) gets to find out so the reader goes along on the fishing trips. Along the way he also finds a way to trail a murderer on the trackless sea.The Australia is from the 1920's but still fascinating. The setting is as much a part of the book as any of the people. This adds greatly to the enjoyment of all the books in this series.Bony loses his composure in this one making the conclusion a bit shocking.The book is an enjoyable cozy mystery, a fast read.

Bermagui on the south coast of NSW is the setting for this intriguing mystery.
Three men on a fishing boat disappear, boat and all.
The head of one, an ex-Scotland Yard man, is dragged up in a net.
Bony arrives, in the guise of a keen angler wanting to hook one of the area's legendary swordfish.
I've no interest in any kind of fishing, so was amazed at the pull of this book, especially as our favourite detective finds himself strapped in on the end of a fishing line, set for the fight of his life.
This is a brilliantly executed mystery novel.
After a bit of a slow start, and a lot of fishing talk, this book picks up and the plot kept me guessing all the way to the end.
In a town catering to amateur fishermen/tourists, a rich man, accompanied by two professional fishermen, tries his luck fishing for swordfish.
All three men, along with their ship, vanish without a trace.
Bony is asked to investigate.
He is out of his element.
It is clear there was foul play when a ship dredges up the head of the missing rich man - and it has a bullet hole in it.
The Introduction has the nowadays unavoidable (and idiotic) warning that the reader must keep in mind the “times in which [this book] was written.” As if we are all children or snowflakes and can’t handle the slightest divergence to the beliefs a few are trying to impose upon everyone! And I had to laugh at the inference that a work of fiction “won a new respect for the native tribes” of Australia… But worse yet, the narration was so boring I couldn’t pass the first few pages…
First time reading this Australian mystery writer -- good plotting, characterization, and setting of context. I think I'll check out another one of his. This one was from 1960, set on the ocean off the southeastern coast of Australia. His detective protagonist is named Napoleon Bonaparte (!) and has an ego and method that rival Hercules Poirot.
I have been a long time fan of Upfield's book and this one is perhaps his greatest effort. Taking his detective completely out of his environment and putting him in a situation so foreign to him just makes this book that much more brilliant!
A really good entry in the Bony canon. Bony is well out of his comfort zone investigating a murder which occurred 3 months previously off the coast at Bermagui. However he shows that the techniques which work in the Great Sandy Desert are just as useful in the Tasman Sea.
Not up to his usual standards. I think the problem was the setting and the fact that deep sea fishing interests me not a whit. I much prefer the stories set out in the bush.
One doesn't often find Bony in a small fishing village. He catches swordfish as well as crooks.
"More fish in that shoal than would be wanted to feed Australia for a year," Wilton said, seriously.
And, Bony, Australia imports every year more than a million pounds' worth of tinned fish.""So I've heard," Bony said.
Yes, Jack, it's a mad world, and it's getting madder every year."An hour later they trolled in water clear of shoal fish, only to pass into another area crowded with countless billions of king-fish averaging four pounds each in weight."And men on the basic wage in the cities and wondering how to feed the kids," Wilton said, bitterly.
I read this while camping at Bermagui over Christmas.
It's a fabulous book but to have read it while at Bermagui where the story is set brought it to life in a way that reading it elsewhere may not have.
To look up from the pages and see the headland where Marion and Mrs Spinks stood and watched for the return of Do-Me, to look out to sea at Montague Island, to walk past the Bermagui Hotel, the harbour, it gave me the most delightful goosebumps.
It was more than just a story for me, it was a whole experience, and I loved every moment of it.
Didn't like it as well as the first bony I read, it was a bit melvillian in its dedication to sword fishing and the bits about his "aboriginal " side asserting itself are uncomfortable for modern sensibilities. Still interesting plot, appealing characters and a satisfying resolution
I thought I had heard of this series starring investigator Napoleon Bonaparte. It's an old series, so it is pretty racist. But an interesting read about swordfishing and the culture of a small coastal town in Australia.
The Mystery of Swordfish ReefThe Mystery of Swordfish ReefA very good book. One of the best from this author. It kept me reading without a break until it was done. I highly recommend it.
Bony is arguably the best detective in Australia. This is the first opportunity to see how he does when the mystery involves a fishing boat reportedly lost at sea and a skull with bullet holes.
An excellent and satisfying read, even the second time around. Upfield has created a smart and infinitely interesting detective in Napoleon Bonaparte!
Übersetzung von Dr. Arno Dohm.Schon recht zerfleddert, daher zurück zum Öffentlichen Bücherschrank.
Deep sea bill fish hunting before the massive female fish were removed from the population by fisheries.
One of my favourite Bony books. A change from the bush settings, too.
A favorite - good for rereads.
i currently own all paperback editions re-printed in the 70's. i love detective bonaparte.
