https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12536.Rosie
But after reading this early fiction for a second time (the first was many years ago) I was left wondering why I remembered liking it so much.
Elizabeth is a whining, self-indulgent trust funder, who in spite of heavy drinking, reads the classics, cooks gourmet meals and has a killer garden.
The kid is wise beyond her years in a not-so-believable way.
You never hear what she is doing when her mother is out drinking in the bar, not remembering her drive home.
Lots of unlikely events occur including not one, but two, dogs being hit by moving vehicles within a short time span.
The title character's father was killed in an accident, and her mother is an alcoholic, and so the summary described Rosie as a precocious 9-year-old who is basically raising herself.
Rosie is indeed precocious, and her mother Elizabeth appreciates her and interacts with her - there is some delightful dialog between them.
Lamott's descriptions of Rosie's and Sharon's days spent away from their homes, entertaining themselves, took me back to my own childhood spent playing outside.
Lamott's own history with alcoholism was evident in her descriptions of Elizabeth's denial and eventual struggle.
Anne Lamott is an author who manages to creep under my skin in that way that some others have.
Her writing becomes a part of who I am for as long as I'm reading the book and then part of her lingers forever after.
I read this book many years ago and remember thoroughly enjoying it.
This book speeds along all the while making you feel like you are suspended in time and taking a long walk through life with friends.
Both times I read this book it managed to leave me with the feeling of something unfinished and something accomplished.
I really like Lamott's literal and bald-faced honesty; there is so much (for me) to relate to in her neuroses and human foibles, especially those that are never admitted to."Rosie", at the beginning, took my breath away with how much I related to its main character.
And I think I've figured out why I find it so unlikable/frustrating: After reading two of her non-fiction books, "Bird by Bird" and "Operating Instructions", I feel like I know some of what the author, Anne Lamott, is about.
And the characters of "Rosie" just feel like fragments of Lamott's own personality, her neuroses, her weaknesses, her foibles.
I had such strong perceptions of every character of the novel, and I connected with each of them, felt like they could be real people.
Maybe it's realistic--yeah, guys cheat and we marry them anyway and put up with it a lot of times--but it felt like she was just marrying him because she was too terrified to be alone again.
James already wasn't a perfect guy to Elizabeth, I don't understand why Lamott felt that she had to write James as a cheater.
In real life, an alcoholic mother would have damaged Rosie and the relationship between mother and daughter more than what is portrayed in the book, I think.
I love LaMott's sense of humor, remember loving this book and its sequel--Crooked Little Hearts--so when I found out she'd written a third novel about Rosie, her mother, Elizabeth, and step-father James, I decided to re-read Rosie before tackling it.
When, at the end of the first meeting, everyone had joined hands to say the Lord's Prayer, Elizabeth could not remember all the words.
She was still resisting; the meetings were hokey and moving, and although the room reeked of miracles, she couldn't bring herself to fall for "God." "God is just a word," said James.
Rosie is the key to her existence and as Elizabeth raises her, she gains purpose, a reason to exist.Lamott throws several situations at her characters as the story line unfolds.
I do not want to spoil the story, so read it and you'll see the various things that Elizabeth and Rosie must overcome together.Lamott's prose is heartbeat steady.
When you read this story, do not expect "great moments." What I mean is that there is no real climax or huge conflict to the story, just a steady telling.
I decided to read Anne Lamott so I will quit getting her name mixed up with those of other authors named Anne or Annie or Ann (Lindbergh? Dillard? Patchett?). I don't know why I have this brain filing system thing--Austria/Australia--good thing I have Goodreads. Anyway, this is Anne Lamott's first novel, and I hope not her best. It was fine, I enjoyed it, it was easy to read and had some interesting and funny and well-done parts. Some issues did not get resolved--the author shirked her duty; what kind of editor lets her get away with that?
Anne Lamott has such a powerful way of connecting us to her characters. This book was full of quirky characters, and I loved the way she pulled me into each of their lives. The main character, Rosie, is a nine year old girl who is wildly funny, precocious, and must adapt to many loses in her life. This book had me laughing one moment and crying the next. For a rather short book, this one is packed with much human experience. I loved it.
The main character (Elizabeth) was someone I could empathize with only in small ways; for the most part, she was pitifully self-centered and aimless, her daughter Rosie being the only thing in the entire world that could make her actually come alive.
The daughter Rosie, was an engaging character, but did not have the level of innocence I would think most young girls that age have.
Perhaps if they had been the main characters, this book would have been more rewarding.Additionally, the level of profanity and crude descriptions were distasteful.
I would highly recommend reading Lamott's other books, but skipping this one altogether.
I just love Ann Lamott. She really brings her characters to life. She can write a book with very little story line, but I still can't put it down.At first I didn't realize there are two more books in this series but now I have to read the next one.. Maybe one of my fav authors, kind of like Anne Tyler.
This was my first fictional read from Anne, and it absolutely captivated me from start to finish. I read it in an afternoon, unable to pull myself away from the characters and this incredibly well-written story. This family is not at all traditional and they don't have things together by any means, but they make you love them and get invested in them as they grow.
Call me crazy, but I couldn't get past the fact that the protagonist informed her four-year-old that sex is also called "fucking," and upon finding out that said four-year-old touched a boy's penis, she asked if she liked it. I'm all for sex-positive parenting, but like...c'mon.
Anything by Anne Lamott is amazing but I am rereading this one because the third book came out recently.
Rich alcoholic widow--who does not work--whines, gardens, and makes elaborate meals and is mean to the nice man who, for some reason, loves her.
I am interested in characters that battle addiction. I found this story slow and rambling but I was still interested. Then she sprang a false plot point, coming from nowhere and going nowhere and tarnishing the narration that preceded it. It is clumsy and I resented it. I might read Lamott in the future in the hopes her plot is richer and she does not resort to sensationalize.
" The white crescent moon made dappled slanting shadows of the trees, and the air was as crisp as chilled vodka, smelling of leaves and grass, of living and burning wood."  This is the first book in the Rosie Ferguson trilogy. I read the first two books years ago, not realizing it was a series. Anne Lamott has a gift for making her characters and their lives very real and believable, this is a painful tale of growing up in a dysfunctional home. While she struggles with the confusion of growing
This is the first book in the Rosie Ferguson trilogy.
Anne Lamott has a gift for making her characters and their lives very real and believable, this is a painful tale of growing up in a dysfunctional home.
While she struggles with the confusion of growing up, Rosie must also cope with the loss of her father and deal with an alcoholic mother; and an alcoholic mother has to deal with raising such a precocious child.
It's not at all hard to be charmed by Anne Lamott's beautiful rendition of real people leading real lives that are sometimes endearing, sometimes heartbreaking, and often humorous.
Although the ending was a little too tidy for me me, I thoroughly enjoyed this book, which startled me a bit - I feel like I've seen so much of it before (the brilliant but fucked-up mother, the wiseass scowling kid, the hideously pretentious boyfriend, the best friend's perfect-but-actually-flawed mother, the inevitably predatory father figure, the jolly best friend) and yet somehow she didn't take them down the usual tedious roads - or if she did, introduced a bend in that road that i was absolutely not expecting.
"Hello?""Hello," a woman's voice said."Are you a Witness?""I swear to God I didn't see a thing."This was early on in the book and had me chuckling.
I love her writing style and material.
So, of course, I needed to read Rosie.This was a lovely book.
The story focuses on a pair: Elizabeth, and her daughter, Rosie.
But of course, Rosie is Elizabeth's heart, and she is the heart of the book.
The characters are lovely and flawed, and the small moments of humor are fantastic.
I was very much engaged with this book.
I love most of Lamott's non-fiction work and had read a positive review or two of Rosie.
The first half was hard going and I had to talk myself out of giving up on it more than once.
I found Elizabeth's negligent parenting bothersome though, particularly because there appeared to be a subtext that love would overcome all and with the odd decent parenting moment, everything would be OK.
Rosie has been structured as a character with a particularly high resilience for her alcoholic, despondent mother, but that type of resilience is rare and many kids would not come out the other side of Elizabeth's parenting in great shape.
The narration takes a hard look at the characters which was sometimes hard to read.
Elizabeth is an alcoholic and it's often hard to read about how she treats people or what she thinks about people as the book is written from her perspective.
Rosie, her daughter, is a much more sympathetic character, mostly because of her age.
Reading about Rosie makes the parts about Elizabeth a lot easier to take.
And I could accept that the characters were deeply flawed but would be alright.
I think most of my problems with the book come from the difference between young adult novels and adult novels.
It is then that the collection of moments, thoughts, and recollections can properly weave themselves together into the crazy yet somehow cohesive story that they are.Lamott's characters are always quite flawed, and I love her for that.
At times it was frustrating to read about someone so self-destructive, an alcoholic widow whose only interest in life is her young daughter Rosie.
Some sort of awakening needs to take place for such a character, or the reader feels frustrated and stops caring.
In the hands of Anne Lamott, the reader keeps on caring.
Rosie is like her good conscious that means well but her flaws seem to overcome her best intentions.
Even when I wanted to see her friend's father suffer for his disease, I could not find compassion for him.The book's name is because of the place Rosie holds in the story.
Her mother would have not kept it together as well as she did if not for the responsibility to make sure Rosie had a home.
Rosie decided to make that home the best home it could be by doing her part to help her flawed mother.
I love Anne Lamott's writing with her gentle humor and quirkiness and her characters' inner struggles.
Rosie, is a free spirit, wise beyond her years and Elizabeth, although beautiful, wealthy and intelligent is deeply troubled, she can't stop drinking, and she dwells on her own mother's psychosis.
Elizabeth is still trying to figure what she should do with her life now that she is grown up and unable to face her indecision she drinks and often when she drinks she is unable to fill her obligations to Rosie.While I love Lamotts' writing and enjoyed reading Rosie I did not find it that compelling.
It is amazing that this book became more and more depressing as I read, and I just couldn't stop reading even though I was sure the ending would be morbidly bad.Normally I would be a little disappointed that what I expected didn't happen, however, I liked the turn the book took.
Probably because I really liked these flawed people.The ending was brillant.
I love that it redefines the meaning of a "good mother", "soul mate" and "friend", allowing the people who hold these roles to be flawed, and yet still somehow, just right.
This book was written in 1983 and it was interesting reading about life as we knew it 20 years ago.
Anne Lamott was an alchoholic herself and has been free of it for a long time.
The acid trip was weird and felt odd being included but then it may have been part of the times back then.
I read the book quickly and felt better about it as I read on and on.
It struck a cord and I am glad I stuck with it and finished it through to the happier ending.
Glad to know there is a third one as well.
Despite its title, at first the story seemed to be about Elizabeth Ferguson, Rosie's mother, and the people who populate her life: Andrew, Rosie, Rae and James.
But there is an imperceptible shift, from Elizabeth's tumultuous inner life to Rosie's life of becoming herself in a world where her one constant is her flawed, beautiful, patient-despite-herself mother.
Lamott's gift is her ability to simultaneously describe Elizabeth's reckoning of her own faults, Rosie's adventures with her best friend Sharon, and Rosie's awareness of the mysterious world of grownups, one populated with kindness and understanding alongside cruelty and abuse.
I'm glad I read this one after the others, instead of in the right order.
Even so - I love the characters in this family.
I want to be their friend; I want to be them."Elizabeth, out loud, ponders the golden mean, *le juste milieu*, whether a human body is equidistant between the infinitesimally small and large, between quarks and stars." p.162The acid trip was my favorite part."'iwant to do with you what spring does to the cherry trees' -neruda" p.175"Mavis Lee's mother sat weeding a begonia bed, with a can of beer beside her on the earth, wearing a finely woven straw bonnet which had eyelets around the brim though which the sun cast a necklace of tiny light beads on her aged brown chest.
I have not been so wholly engaged in the life of a character in a long time.
I cared about these characters so much that I literally lost sleep over them, and finally had to limit my reading to daytimes and not before bed.
I don't think I can give a work of fiction higher praise.As a writer, I found the way Lamott presents dialogue almost revolutionary.
She often will put the non-speaking character's reaction in between the dialogue she is hearing, while most writers only show the speaker while presenting the dialogue being spoken.
Always great to have your eyes opened to a new way of expressing a story.
:)i loved this book.
rosie is a 7yo living with her widowed, alcoholic mother.
rosie is very wise and insightful, but longs for a 'normal' mother who serves 'normal' food, and who isn't an alcoholic.
rose's mother - elizabeth - is beautiful, and always an outsider.
she struggles knowing she has a problem with alcohol, yet can't stop herself.
her best friend, are, is a weaver, and hopeless in relationships.
rosie's best-friend is sharon and it is from sharon's 'normal' family that rosie learns a difficult, heartbreaking lesson.
this is a book about love, acceptance, right & wrong.
