https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2218252.Rumors
Regardless, after a very slow start, and 150 pages, Rumors finally began to pick up speed and ended rather spectacularly, though abruptly.Things we now know are:Penelope is an evil tart with no pride or morals.
Once Elizabeth's mother confirms that she and Will are basically useless and therefore must leave New York, they set out to do just that.
But as he is allowing his father to control his life, I'm guessing that his true love is money, with Diana coming in a close second.
Mm..I'm really torn with this book.Okay, this book was good.
I'm sure I'm not the only one who is completely flabbergasted by THE ENDING OF THIS NOVEL!
WHAT WAS GODBERSEN THINKING WHEN SHE WROTE THE LAST FEW CHAPTERS??Honestly, I am in no way a fan of the ending.
I am a complete SAP for happy endings and when thinks such as what occurred in this novel happen, it infuriates me.
The ending just really..made me mad, okay?All in all, a really good book if you're into gossip and scandal and all that juicy stuff that I'm into to.
The ending. Nope. Not cool.
I'm not entirely sold on her yet but I admire her boldness and I hope that she assists in the destruction of Penelope.Henry is very weak and I spent a large part of the book feeling very annoyed that two girls were fighting tooth and nail to win his affection.The ending, as many others have said, is really terrible.
There are two other books in the Luxe series and I imagine everyone will get what's coming to them in the end - particularly Penelope, good God I'd love to see her fall from grace very, very hard.
Want to see more bookish things from me? Check out my YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfer...The pacing of this book was much better than the first. I liked the scandal and gossip. The writing style is easy to read and flows nicely. Definitely better than the 1st book, but nothing special. The ending pissed me off and I am NOT HAPPY with the developments... I'm going to read the next in the series so that I can find out what happens next.
And she could be way too descriptive when it came to clothing and luxury items.
Focus more on your characters and less on their clothing.
And Lina, well, Lina is annoying.The only reason I could finish the book is because I hate abandoning books halfway through and the plot itself was enough of a soap opera that I wanted to see how things panned out.
But at one point I was so frustrated with the plot that I skipped to the ending so that I could hopefully finish out the book in a better frame of mind.
Elizabeth and Diana Holland are two sisters high in Manhattan’s social scene.
The Holland family is struggling to keep their place in society and Elizabeth and Diana are struggling to keep their family secrets from their backstabbing friend, Penelope, and former maid, Lina.
Godbersen’s writing style helps reflect the elegance of the characters in the book and helps you see their high social status.
I was so anxious to know all the drama that was going to unfold and what Penelope and Diana were planning to do next.
Weird again.) She can produce a good soap opera-type book.
The plot was interesting enough that I didn't even realize that I was 250+ pages into the book.
I find the most interesting part for me is the whole Diana, Penolope, Henry storyline.
I am very intrigued and I will read the next novel since at the end of this one, Elizabeth has promised Diana they are going to get Henry for her.
When my husband asked me about the book, I described it as reading an episode of "Gossip Girl" or "the OC" set in the turn of the century.
This was another interesting installment in the series. The stakes are getting higher for some of the characters, and I'm interested to see how the events at the end will play out in the next book.
A jsem tým Penelopa!4/5*English review:I have read first book of this series, Luxe, back in 2012 and never continuned with the series.
Elizabeth Holland was meant to marry one of the richest boys in NY but she rather fled with her true love, Will, who was working for her family.
Her younger sister Diana is in love with Lizzie's ex-fiancé and so is Penelope, Blair of Lux series.
And finally we have Lina, who was a maid for Elizabeth's family, but thanks to Penelope, she started a new life as Carolina, fake heiress from the West.
Fast paced, interesting characters, lot of backstabbing, love drama...
I personally liked Rumors a bit more than The Luxe, although The Luxe was very good. The end though! My heart still hurts!
This book is a quick read with plenty of action, blackmail and unexpected mischief going on behind closed doors.
This leaves Diana to fend for herself trying to keep a stronghold on their place in society as the bill collectors come pounding on the door.
Elizabeth arrives in California and finds her love the carriage boy Will and begins a life with him.
Penelope is still trying to get her hooks in Henry and become his wife.
This book is full of betrayals, blackmail, a rectangle love triangle, tragedy and gossip
DisappointingThis book was fantastic till the very end. The author completely crushed the book. Elizabeth pretty much becomes a low life pushover. The author apparently wanted to end this book in multiple tragedies.
But there was only one way used to describe a blush; Heat crawling up her cheeks.
You could skip 3 pages and not miss anything - too much description in the dresses etc.
"But Elizabeth isn't dead"....she would have liked to shout it...she couldn't...she had promised her sister that she wouldn't tell.
You're trying to woo Henry for your own, LONG before Liz was gone, but you feel bad about telling because it would ruin her life?
And in the middle of that awful scene, Ted's "If you aren't careful you could ruin the Hollands" comment.
I was interested to see which category I fell into (if any).So everyone thinks Elizabeth Holland is dead.
But then Elizabeth Holland is not actually dead, is she?
And Henry is not actually in love with Penelope, is he?
Meanwhile, Lina is masquerading about as a mining heiress from Utah (LOL), Penelope is advancing on Henry like a post-coital black widow, and the weight of the world rests squarely on Diana's little shoulders as she is the one who is now expected to make a most advantageous marriage to save the family name.
Me gustó la historia pero me pareció muy lenta, con demasiada descripción , por ejemplo cada vez que salían describían el paisaje o cada vez que iban a una fiesta describían como iban vestidos, sé que eso enriquece la historia y nos dá un a imagen más completa pero creo que fué demasiado. También creo que está de más que aclaren cosas que ya sabemos como situaciones pasadas que ya leímos y sabemos y te las vuelven a repetir que aunque traten de aclarar me parece que solo alarga la historia y me resultó tedioso y aburrido.
This is a good second book, as it definitely increases the scandal and drama, which is what makes the series work.
I keep hoping the characters will grow a bit deeper and become more three dimensional.
Sometimes, they feel more like caricatures of high society types, rather than like real people with complex emotions and hopes.
There are hints of what ticks beneath the surface of every girl, but the story never digs down deep inside of those moments.
Part of that is the light, airy nature of these stories as fast-paced, flirty, and full of scandal, but I want more depth.
*cries* The ending! Argh! I'm torn between wanting the next book desperatly and wanting to pretend I never read the last few chapters......... I was actually near tears at the end, and I never cry at books. Granted, I didn't cry at this end either, but still. I was as close as I ever get.More coherent review coming someday when I get over the shock of this ending.
Keeps getting better...
Otro cinco estrellas nada objetivo. Lo siento pero esta saga me puede.
Because the train-wreck events these books carry are so entertaining!First off, Rumors was so much better than its predecessor.
what more could I ask for?The story left off with Elizabeth Holland faking her death--with the help of Penelope Hayes--so she could finally be with her true love, Will Keller.
Meanwhile, Henry Schoonmaker--Elizabeth's fiancee--fell in love with Diana Holland.
And Elizabeth's former maid, Lina Broud, is trying to reach the social ladder by discovering the "complex" use of destroying someone's reputation.
Who knew blackmail and gossip could be deadly?Is it weird that I felt sorry for Penelope in the last book because she din't get Henry for herself?
A Magical World Of WordsI love  Rumours . It's just beautiful. Like the first book, the atmosphere was the best thing about this book; you can't help getting swept away into the glamorous, forbidden world of New York society, and watching the fancy balls and stolen kisses as though you're really there and spying on the characters yourselves. It's a delicious social scene; captivating and colourful and luscious.The descriptions of the gowns the girls wore were mouth-watering. I loved the scenes G
Like the first book, the atmosphere was the best thing about this book; you can't help getting swept away into the glamorous, forbidden world of New York society, and watching the fancy balls and stolen kisses as though you're really there and spying on the characters yourselves.
I loved the scenes Godbersen painted, and everything was so rich and tangible.
It was so bittersweet and so tragic and SO agonizing, and while I admire the author for making me feel, I did think it was a bit of an unnecessary move to have Will and Liz's romance end like that.
improves upon the first book with a delicious bounty of secrets and stolen romances.
Don't get me wrong, it was well written, and I suppose it was realistic since if it didn't happen we wouldn't really get to see one of the main characters at all anymore, because she would've been gone.
I don't want to say what happened, but I absolutly hated it.
Ah, the magic of the Internet.Anyway, I would still recommend this book/series to anyone.
And then other people can cry when IT happens, because that just shows they emotionally attached to the book like I am.One more downside is that I've been told I look a lot like Penelope, who is portrayed on the front cover.
I found Rumors to be extremely enjoyable.
As someone else mentioned, Rumors is a bit like a soap opera and quite petty at times.
Some of the characters grate on my nerves at times when I don't think they are supposed to.
Anna Godbersen writes her stories so vividly that you can practically see the dresses these girls wear, sense the emotions they emit, and picture the facials of characters at the numerous times.
I always find myself wanting to read more.On that note, I will say that there are times when I have trouble picking the book up again.
Other than that, Rumors was an enjoyable read.
I really disliked the second book in the Luxe series.
I found the characters completely insipid and deplorable.
I am especially appalled that this was written for teenagers.
The fact that sex was glorified for these teenagers really bothered me.
Could this book be more filled with depressing story lines and bitter characters?It could have been so much more.
The time period and setting gave opportunity for this book to be classy and elegant.
Hopefully the characters will gain some moral back bone in the third book.
After reading Rumors, I finally understood what was lacking in the Luxe series.
The whole series is just too fast-paced (despite each book having like 450 pages).
What about the struggles that Elizabeth had to do to try to meet her true love?) I've realized now that the Luxe series aren't based only one particular character (or family, in this case).
It's mainly on all the gossip in New York's fast-paced dramatic society.
This book is all about news, looks, deceitfulness, drama, gossip, society, position, money, and putting on a facade.
Rumors is a little bit better (more intense) than The Luxe.
It's still the same sort of story, drama and backstabbing and not too much substance, but I felt like in The Luxe at least a lot happened, in this one that didn't really seem to be the case until the end.
But even the ending was really abrupt and not very satisfying, it didn't feel like a complete story, which the first book did manage to do.
(view spoiler)[ I also felt like they only killed off Will so Elizabeth would have no choice but to come back to New York, which is sort of cheap after the way their story was set up.
OH MY GOSH.
I was fully prepared to write a review along the lines of "typical second installment with nothing unforeseen happening" but the last twenty-something leave me a bit dazed and unable to write just that.
Yes, it is a typical second installment and thus a bit slower than book one...but boy.
Things happen!Albeit in the last few chapters but I'm still slightly taken aback...While I'm still a bit freaked out, let me leave you with this: I really want to have the wardrobes these girls have - A.
(and vintage at its finest haha)
I loved this one a lot more than I loved the first one. The ending to this one made me want to launch the book across the room but if I would've done that, I probably would have hit the teacher and gotten in trouble. But anyway, I almost cried at the ending of this book & I'm scared to read the third one because I was so happy throughout this book UNTIL THE END.But I know I'm going to read the third one anyway... aha.
It's kind of sad how these books don't make me feel anything, no matter what terrible evens take place. But these books are addictive. Kind of a guilty pleasure. The situations and dynamics between all of these characters changed a lot in this book and I need to know how this will play out. I'm actually really enjoying this series so far. Onto the next one!
