https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80457.The_Basic_Writings_of_Sigmund_Freud
I've only read The Psychopathology of Everyday Life so far. It's excellent, loaded with epiphanies for the reader. One thinks "but yes! Of course!"
I'm thrilled that I found Freud post-graduate school, because it's nice to know that my thinking hasn't solidified to the point where I can't be seriously changed by a book.
So many of Freud's theories are instantly verifiable through self analysis, which makes reading his books a real thrill.
He seems so certain that his psychological discoveries disprove religion, while I don't understand why they couldn't just as easily be evidence that religion is true.
Either way, isn't he just demonstrating ways in which religion is psychologically necessary, whether it's true or not?
And I did find it an enlightening experience.So, why did I give it 4 stars?
Well, like I said, I found it an enlightening experience.
I think Sigmund Freud needed to write a bit more clearly.
Considering the fact that Freud was an avid reader, I thought he would be able to write in an engaging style, whereas Jung, though a bit difficult, actually had a better writing ability, and therefore, his works are more accessible.I think it's best if you don't read this volume of Freud's works in order.
I'm a fast reader, but it took me an effort of 2 weeks to finish this.
This book was wordy, antiquated and beyond boring. I stopped reading after giving it my best attention for 3 months; finishing the first third of the volume. Upon realizing that I dreaded picking it up, I decided to stop reading it. There is so much good reading available today that is enlightening and progressive; why waste time in this kind of dogmatism? I can understand now why Jung separated from Freud!
ridiculous.
I skipped over much of the material on dreams, because I already have a copy of Dream Psychology by Freud and not terribly interesting to me anyway; the parts on speech/writing/reading blunders and sexuality were the most interesting to me; the portions on wit and Totem & Taboo were also intriguing, but I skimmed over much of them as I plan on obtaining copies of them unto themselves at some point; the History of the Psychoanalytic Movement was a fitting conclusion to this collection of works by Freud, and one that I will probably refer back to a few times.
It's a exhausting read, naturally.But fundamental.
It was boring maybe I'll give it another try sometime.
Every element of a dream provides meaning through a chain of associations, whether in symbolic terms or in representing its intended opposite.
Under the pressure of censorship however the normal and vital association of dream elements is displaced by something superficial and apparently absurd.- Wit and Its Relation to the Unconscious: This joke resonated with me - A.
secondly, the kettle had a hole in it when I received it from B., thirdly, the kettle was in perfect condition when I returned it."- Totem and Taboo - Using examples from Australia, Africa, Melanesia, and Polynesia Freud highlights how animal totems were used by indigenous populations to segregate tribes and manage social relations between the different sexes.
A. Brill I think.Most of Freud's ideas can be summed up as thoughts of sex.
A lot of his ideas take some getting used to; like with his dream analysis and how it connects to repressed desires.
When he moves on to Three Contributions of the Theory of Sex, it does get a little uncomfortable, though I did read through all of the passages where thumb-sucking is meant to be some kind of orgasmic oral fixation behavior.One thing I can say about the guy is that he was quite the standard bearer for a while.
This was my first book that I read to prepare myself to explore psychology.
What better way than to start off with the "Father of Psychology".
This book is very informative.
I liked how there were also a compilation of his books in this one (saves money).
I really learned about it, unfortunately, somethings in this book can be very controversial, but I guess that's what makes it very thought-provoking as well.
Be prepared for a life-changing experience once you've completed this book.
It is a bit difficult to read, but just hammer your way through, or fly a bit higher than usual when reading this book.
This was one of the earlier, affordable collections of some of the basic writings of Sigmund Freud that I began reading toward the end of college. At this point I'm no longer sure which of them I read in these, the Brill translations, and which I read first in other, later editions except for Wit and the Unconscious and The Psychopathology of Everyday Life, both of which I had read previously while staying at my grandmother's cottage in SE Michigan.
A brilliant man who may have made everything up without going beyond his personal opinion. He states a premise and finds evidence to support his opinion. Little true objectivity, but his views certainly inspired all subsequent studies in psychology.
I first read this in a college course, and found his body of work to be eye opening and thought provoking--although not all that easy to read--I would never have guessed that I would go on to be a psychiatrist, but he rocked my world
After reading half a dozen of Freud's books I used this one as a summary. It holds a good representation of all of his work.
An amazing mind, right up there with Darwin. It's refreshing to actually read the original stuff to see how Freud's work has been misinterpreted and Freud misrepresented.
brilliant
I can't believe that I've gotten this far in life without having read any Freud. Still on the introduction just now.
Mostly sounded like gobbly gook, very heady....but thankfully I studied in psychology in college and got it.
Freud opened my mind and I will always be indebted to him. I read most of this book and want to get back to it and read it again.
A first edition
Very interesting, a good look at old psychology.
Marvelous collection of indispensable Freud. Fascinating stuff that changed the world.
I am little more than half way through, I have not picked it up in a while but I will continue to read it. The book is great if it interests you. You sorta have to have a knack for this.
