https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27693.The_Moonspinners
For some reason that I cannot analyse, the sight of the big white bird, strange to me; the smell of the lemon-flowers, the clicking of the mill-sails and the sound of spilling water; the sunlight dappling through the leaves on the white anemones with their lamp-black centres; and, above all, my first real sight of the legendary White Mountains… all this seemed to rush together into a point of powerful magic, happiness striking like an arrow, with one of those sudden shocks of joy that are so physical, so precisely marked, that one knows the exact moment at which the world changed."I have come to realize that Mary Stewart always manages to stimulate all of your senses!
that black pelt of hair, thick and close as a ram's fleece, which is one of the chief beauties of the Greek men." Good times!So anyway, I've got a soft spot for this book, like I seem to have for most of these old Mary Stewart romantic suspense novels, because memories, so it's probably getting a bit of a rating bump because of that.
You've spent the night with a detestable engineer called Mark.
Tell all."Another delightful romantic suspense novel from Mary Stewart set (as usual) in an exotic location.
Nobody writes heroines like Mary Stewart, they are always quite able to save themselves, thank you very much, and need no man to do it for them. They are all capable, efficient and athletic and can get along on their own, but a handsome, capable man is nice to have around. Written in the 1960s, and set mostly in that era, her romance novels sing in triumph of the modern woman as girl scout, hardy and tenacious and tough. Moon-spinners was another great one, but my favorites by her are The Ivy Tree and My Brother Michael.
“But, as a form of exercise, I cannot recommend carrying a suitcase for a mile or so along sand and shingle at the dead of night, and then edging one's way along a narrow path where a false step will mean plunging into a couple of fathoms of sea that, however quiet, is toothed like a shark with jagged fangs of rock.”    An intrepid heroine, insta-love, nylon underwear, cigarettes, &, above all, gorgeous, beautifully described Cretan scenery - this Stewart suspense novel has it all! I could
“But, as a form of exercise, I cannot recommend carrying a suitcase for a mile or so along sand and shingle at the dead of night, and then edging one's way along a narrow path where a false step will mean plunging into a couple of fathoms of sea that, however quiet, is toothed like a shark with jagged fangs of rock.”
An intrepid heroine, insta-love, nylon underwear, cigarettes, &, above all, gorgeous, beautifully described Cretan scenery - this Stewart suspense novel has it all!
maybe sip on a tsikóthia (raki) while reading this novel - sitting on the edge of your seat is the best way.Most highly recommended["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
We read on …“What else is there to do when such a thing happens on a brilliant April noonday at the foot of the White Mountains of Crete; when the road is hot and dusty, but the gorge is green, and full of the sound of water, and the white wings, flying ahead, flicker in and out of deep shadow, and the air is full of the scent of lemon-blossom?”Mary Stewart’s powers of description are mesmerising; gradually enfolding us in a world of sensation.
Rediscovering Mary StewartIt must have been about 40 years ago that I first discovered Mary Stewart.
She and her cousin Frances agree to meet for a holiday in a small town on the Isle of Crete.You can tell that this was written in a kinder, gentler time because I can't imagine a 22 year old girl today would be safe wondering around on Crete all alone.Nicola decides to take a trek into the mountains before heading for the small town of Agioas Georgios where her cousin will be joining her in a few days.
They've found the perfect locale--a new B&B with a gourmet, London-trained chef in an unspoiled village by the sea.Lots of hiking in the hills looking at wild flowersChecking out ruined Byzantine churchesEnjoying quiet dinners on the terraceAnd swimming in the wine-dark sea.What could possibly go wrong?
Here...where the wild White Mountains plunge towards the sea and craggy, rock-strewn hills hide cut-throats and killers?Plenty can go wrong and does, right from the very first chapter, as Nicola finds herself following a wild, white bird in flight into the hills towards adventure, insta-love and a fight for her life.
There's is plenty of local color, lots of humor and even more terror than usual in the closing chapters.
I'm glad to have had the chance to read this classic Stewart mystery, and sharing it as a group buddy read made it even more fun.AND I learned a secret for Someday in the kitchen.
She sees a fisherman beating an octopus and says to herself that his family will eat well that night.
Turns out the the meat of a freshly caught octopus needs to have help to make it tender.
Whatever it is, I seem to sink into her world and never wish to exit until I have reached the last page, and I find them just as much fun at my advanced age as I did when I was in my teens and devouring them for the first time.Lest you think Mary Stewart a simple, unsophisticated romance writer, allow me to assure you that she writes with wit, and with a knowledge base that shows at every turn.
When I was twelve or thirteen, Mary Stewart was a favorite author of everyone I knew who loved to read--my mother, her friends, me, and eventually my younger sisters--and of all Stewart’s books it was The Moon-Spinners that siren-called me back to its pages again and again.
It had been decades since my last reading, and delving back into The Moon-Spinners was like going on an archaeological dig through layers of my own worldview, helping me remember, even re-feel, some of my earliest understandings of life and love and the kind of person I wanted to be, since I was brought up surrounded by those early 60’s assumptions too, before everything started changing just a few years later in the decade.
I don't know if my review of this book would be the same if I was just reading it for the first time.
It does have a few slow parts and it may be a bit old-fashioned, but it's just a fun read.
I think I originally read it after seeing the Disney movie version with Hayley Mills that was made in the 60s.
The movie had a bit more action than the book, but I like the heroine better in the book.
(Sorry, am I reviewing the book or the movie?
I loved Nicola and Mark, they had just the right spark and spunkiness to play off of each other and add a perfect light-heartedness to the story (lol, his comments at the end where she’s had to wear his brother's slightly too tight pants), and I loved the way Stewart can set up her scenes – everything on the island literally came alive for me from the tiniest flower, to the windmills, the mountains as well as those treacherous rocks alongside the bay.
How very satisfying.
Mary Stewart not only gives her main character enough personal agency to go abroad to Greece and take a job on her own - something that is intimidating and noteworthy in 2017 - but that same heroine has enough intellectual curiosity and engagement to learn the language while she is there, which shows tremendous respect for the local culture.
In this book, Stewart never uses the word "independent" to describe Nicola, she just shows us a young British woman who IS independent without constantly having to try to convince the reader of that aspect of her character.
When I was in high school, I discovered these Gothic romances, and they sustained me for several years. After plowing through the ones that were already published, I watched for each new book to arrive. My 5 stars reflect how much I loved them when I was 15! Eventually, Mary Stewart turned to the Arthur saga, about which she wrote some captivating (and captivatingly long) novels, but they couldn't capture my soul like the romances did.
I hate to give Stewart 2 stars but this is just not working for me. Read over 250 pages and it is so tedious. Stewart's powers of description are there in full force but we also have a lot of telling-not-showing going on here too. There is lack of character development (well not her strong suit anyway) and a not too mysterious mystery. It is all a bit discombobulated.
After reading Arthurian Arthurian series (The Crystal Cave) and  The Moonspinners Now I'm a fan of her.
I would love to read all of her books.
I wasn't sure if I can love The Moonspinners after reading Arthurian series because of both of them just seems so different genre.
I thought myself as a person who doesn't like long descriptions of a story but I love how Mary Stewart work her magic and draw you in.
:))) I won't say much about its because I don't think I can stay away from spoilers.
If you didn't read Mary Stewart book yet I can say you miss a lot.
It's not a new book at all - it was originally published in 1964 - but apparently it has been re-published as a "rediscovered classic." I had never read the book, but loved the movie with Hayley Mills as a child.
It's one of those books written so lovingly about its location that you fall in love with the place.
The young man, Mark, has been shot and his younger brother, Colin, has gone missing.
Something sinister is a-foot and it's up to Nicola to discern what it is and to save Mark and Colin.Recommend, especially for the gorgeous descriptions of Crete's flora, rocky mountains and the ocean.
I’m wondering if I ever really say anything different about Mary Stewart’s books.
They’re fairly formulaic, really: fairly independent young woman meets young man who may or may not be her cousin, there is some dramatic problem to be resolved, and they resolve it while falling in love, often improbably fast or due to some supernatural intervention (as in Touch Not the Cat and Thornyhold).
They’re better than they sound, though: the atmosphere Stewart produces is amazing, and quite a lot of her female characters are actually quite strong and certainly have agency.
Her plan is to escape the Easter crowds of the big city and spend some quiet, peaceful time with her older cousin, Frances, on the island of Crete.This story starts off well from the beginning.
Instead of peace and solitude, Nicola is thrown into a mystery involving murder and some other crimes I won't name.
Of the Mary Stewart books I have read, this is the first where I had no clue what was going on and there was a little twist that really fooled me.
Also, some of the dialogue was quite amusing and playful, more so than any other book I have read of hers.
As she is exploring the beautiful countryside on her way, she comes upon a man and his injured friend.
The men were exploring the trails and ruins, and had unintentionally witnessed a murder.
But she could not just ignore someone who needs help.Wonderful descriptions of the mountains, the rocky coast, and the ruins of Crete were woven into the suspenseful story as Nicola tries to discover the identity of the murderer.
Written in the 1960s, the book has a retro feeling about it with Nicola hiking up the rocky mountainside in a dress, and using her petticoat as a bandage for the wounded man.
I've read this book at least four times since I was about 12 (which is alot for me) because I love it.
She writes mysteries that also have great romance in them.
This particular book gets you interested very quickly.
I'd recommend this to anyone who likes mysteries, but particularly for girls since it is written in the first person.
If you have seen the Disney movie version DO NOT FEAR!
The book is MUCH, MUCH better and not corny or embarrassing like the movie.
Don't get me wrong, I like the movie, but the book is completely different in the best possible ways.
Bought for a bit of silly light reading.
I think it's well-broken now, though: I ate up The Moonspinners in less than a day.
It's a ridiculous story, really: I think I said of one of Mary Stewart's other books, Touch Not the Cat, or maybe The Gabriel Hounds, or both, that it's really The Famous Five for adults, with a dash of romance and some exotic scenery.
Since I knew that, that's what I read it for, though, and so I enjoyed it quite a bit.
In the Disney version, they completely remove the kidnapped kid brother (and the injured man’s friend for that matter), and while the injured man does get hurt because he got too close to discovering a crime being committed, no murder or accidental killing occurs at any time during the movie.Even with these differences, I enjoyed both the book and the movie very much, just for very different reasons.
The hero is gravely injured at this time so nothing sexual happens, but there’s some mild innuendo related to this incident, mainly Nicola herself telling her cousin she, “spent the night with a man” and similar comments.
This is by far the worst of the Stewarts I've tried.
It combined all the worst tendencies of Wildfire at Midnight (stupidly plucky heroine, talky-talk dialogue, & 1960s-era chick mystery) & threw them together with small-town Crete.
Even by the clean standards of the era, this felt more like a tepid vintage YA than adult romantic suspense.
It's dated -- and not charmingly dated, like some romantic suspense, but an eye-rollingly "are you serious?" kind of way.
This is one of my favorite books of all time.
I read everything by Mary Stewart and love them all, but this book is the one I reach for every summer.
It is set in Greece, and it always makes me desire to hop on a plane and fly to Greece, even though the setting adds to the fearfulness in this book.
By the way, the old movie has absolutely nothing to do with the book, even though it says it does.
If I were Mary Stewart, I would have been appalled at what the movie makers did to her wonderful story.
I really like Stewart's descriptive writing and while some of the parts were slow {when Nicola was initially with Mark} for me, the overall story kept me engaged to see the final outcome. I had seen the Disney movie with Hayley Mills quite a long time ago and rewatched it just before finishing the book. It was interesting how the film deviates from the book in many parts but both are fun. I liked the connection of The Moonspinners legend to the story and my goodness, Stewart made Crete come to life in beauty.
Mary Stewart does not usually disappoint.
She is one author who can successfully create a sense of place where the reader feels they are there with the characters experiencing their adventures.
I really felt that in my visit to Crete this time around.
So much better than the train wreck of a Disney movie that was 'based' on this story.
But to be fair, I was young and a Hayley Mills fan so at that time I enjoyed it.
Not so much now.Would recommend this story to anyone looking for a trip to a warmer climate!
I'm pretty sure this was the first Mary Stewart novel I read. And although Stewart did everything well, what she did particularly well--or what made me idolize her as a young and aspiring writer -- was her vivid and evocative use of setting. AND very witty, very amusing dialog. Yes, people are dying and mysterious things are happening, but Stewart's characters handle it all with panache and a refreshing sense of humor.
I thought this book would be old-fashioned and staid, but it couldn't be further. The heroine is plucky and smart, easy to relate to as she adventures in Greece and meets handsome rogues and benighted heroes. A fantastic read, best with iced tea or lemonade and a nice warm spot in the sun.
