https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2366648.Coffee
Heinrich Eduard Jacob was a pacifist German Jew whose work was blacklisted by the Nazis since 1933.
Instead, it seems to be a collection of stories and anecdotes about coffee, from a series of legends about how coffee was discovered in Yemen to Jacob's own stories of being in Brazil in 1931, when the state bought coffee only to destroy it, to increase the price of its own coffee shares.
A serious student, who already knows the history of the regions Jacob talks about, would probably have a great deal of fun with this book.
This isn't a book on coffee!
almost no discussion on coffee until book 4 (the last few chapters) and even then it isn't the main topic.
At best this is a drab book on European history (even Columbus' voyage made it in!) but if you're looking for a direct/interesting history or evolution of coffee in popularity, culture, customs, or trade THIS ISNT IT!
There was more discussion on beer than coffee!I kept waiting for interesting facts but none came.
Or they were lost in historical dribble that didn't apply to the thesis or supposed topic of this book.
As "The Epic of a Commodity", most of the book recounts the economic influence of Coffee throughout Europe in the 17th-19th centuries, and Brazil in the 20th.
Still, Jacob details a fascinating history of coffee as a commodity, and I'm happier for having read it.
Arabia cannot produce nearly as much mocha as the public demands.
Brazil has here come to the coffee-merchant’s aid.
During the rainy season, coffee is shipped on old-style windjammers to Arabia, by the longest route, round the Cape of Good Hope.
Originally written in the 1930s, it presents a record of trade in and history of coffee as promised, from its roots in the Arab world to Europe, Brazil and the U.S. up until the 1900s.
He redundantly characterizes the cultural influence of alcohol as "Bacchic" and that by some Christians and all of Islam, coffee was considered a tool to combat its influence ("Anti-Bacchic").
He makes liberal use of exclamations, offers a heap of odd assertions such as that "the Spanish are a strange people" and that coffee is something that is not befitting to the disposition of women.
A journey following coffeeThis is a book written in the early 1930's and as such some might find difficult to read but I found great use of the kindle features.
The author begins the journey for coffee's mythical origin and follows through both Asia and Europe.
He takes his time telling his story and some may find it too detailed, though I enjoyed the literary journey.The history of coffee is as much the history of the world that drank it and throughout the book I found myself thinking "oh that's why the South drink chicory" or "so that's why it's called Venetian".I bought the printed version for friend's in Alaska who have plenty of time in the winter to enjoy the same travel.
A Brutal ReadI bought this book thinking it was a thorough, yet fun history of coffee. It turns out this book is a painfully dry, historical narrative meant for 1930s historians. Painfully boring.
This book is similar, but treats the commodity coffee more in a sociological, historical sense.
The last two chapters are an extended consideration of the Brazilian policy of the early thirties that burned bumper crops of coffee beans during a time of glut on the market in order to stimulate the price.
The concept of destroying a commodity in order to stimulate demand must have been new and controversial at the time.
The preceding chapters may well have been tacked on to the final two in order to provide a book-length publishing vehicle for them.

This is very much a book about a commodity. Though interesting and very well-researched, I found it a boring read at times and that the author just droned on about things that had nothing to do with coffee. I expected something else from the book, but that is my own fault; I didn’t take its title literally.
A book about coffee, what more can be said A fascinating and insightful historical look into my favorite beverage: coffee. Not dull or boring like some cup of tea but a real wake me up into the beginnings and the significance of this aromatic drink which has help shape culture and economies.
An epic story told in grandiose style.I love coffee. I love stories told by master storytellers. This book is both! His vocabulary is prodigious and his enthusiasm undeniable. Grab a cup and learn how it came to you from the distant past....
From the raw fruit to the roasted beans, and how it became so beloved and universal - a great read with your favourite coffee brew...
Interesting readA book from another time. The author reveals at the end he traveled to Brazil via Zeppelin from his native Germany in 1932 to research this history of coffee. I wish he was around today to bring it up to date
This wasn't what I was expecting, nor did I know that it was originally published in 1935, but it was still an engaging history. More history of history than history of coffee, but still an interesting read.
Coffee: The epic of commodity Absolutely fascinating story! Real pleasure reading this book to realize coffee "adventures" from slow introduction to the world to taking over it .
"Every cell of the human body is, as it were, renovated, as soon as caffiene reaches it.""The world at large will never be the fenced precinct or the desert island of the professors of economics."
