https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144349.The_Burning_Bridge
Me before reading The Burning Bridge: Oh my gosh I'm so excited to read this, ugh but I have other books to read but Im going to abandon those for this one because I miss Will's adventures.
Me immediately after reading The Burning Bridge: OH MY FUDGE GOSH WHAT?
I was actually really scared for them when they were left alone (won't tell you who but the point is I felt emotion and general attachment to the characters) The ending I knew was coming because of the title of the next one in the series but I refused to believe it until I was on page 262 even then staring dumb-fonded as I refused to believe it could end like that.
Will and Horace wonder if all the villagers have been slain or captured, but Gilan believes that the evil Lord Morgarath devised a plan to cross the mountain pass faster.
Gilan rides to warn King Duncan, and Will and Horace begin to follow a straggling Wargal force.
They also discover that the King's army will be trapped on the Plains of Uthal, because the plans that Halt captured were merely a ruse.
In the middle of the battle, Morgarath calls a truce and challenges Halt to a duel, but king Duncan forbids it.
خلاصه: پانزده سال است که اهالی آرالوئن در صلح و صفا روزگار میگذرانند.
WARNING: THIS REVIEW IS SUPER RAMBLY AND PROBABLY NOT THAT GREATBurning Bridge is the second book in The Ranger's Apprentice series.
It really picks up from where book one finishes, continuing to follow the story of the characters we were introduced to and following a few more.
Whereas the first book can be seen as boring for 80% of the book, The Burning Bridge has a lot more plot for the reader to immerse themselves in.
When I first read this book in 2010 I remember not being able to put it down, staying up late by using my lamp and covering the cracks of my door with jumpers so no one would know - obviously I was a big rebel.
Really, if I could give 6 stars, this series would get them. They are so good. I love the characters, good and bad, and the way we are seeing them grow up or older. There is so much action and adventure, very much like Lord of the Rings. Love these books.
Još uvek nekako naivno ali ipak priča kajo drži pažnju i koja se već bavi malo težim temama. Svet je dobio malo više world building-a, upoznali još jedan narod (površno, za sada) i jedna od pretnji je rešena tako da me interesuje šta nas čeka u nastavku što je uvek plus kada knjiga ode ne očekivanim pravcom.Jedino što mrzim kada se knjiga završi cliffhanger-om. Grrrrrr.Ali ako kod svake knjige nastavi ovako da raste kvalitet biće ovo odličan serijal.Ako vam treba fantazija za mlađu publiku svaka preporuka.
Wow! I loved this book. While the first book in the series was good, this one was great. There was more action, more humor, a good battle, and a fantastic cliffhanger at the end. Enjoy!
Gilan, a trusted fellow ranger, was the first ranger trained by Halt.He is sent on a mission with Will and Horace to enlist the help of the secretive Celtica nation, a nation known for their mastery of mining, welding and tunnel excavations.
Why does Gilan, Halt and Horace sense that it has something to do with Morgarath?
Will, Horace, Halt and Gilan , along with newcomer Evanlyn (Cassandra)all contribute to Morgarath's demise, but the story does not end conveniently, as Will and Evanlyn, seemed doomed to a life of slavery with their capture by the Skandias.
What an amazing sequel!! Also Will.... you just can't do this to me!!
3.5 stars
The story plot line is exceptional, and creates a world you can truly believe exists.
Though the plot thickens, it does not become over complicated and it creates an almost perfect balance of characters, emotions and plot lines.
Everything that happens to the characters pulls at you, compelling you to feel what they feel.This book is excellently written and I would recommend it for anyone at any age.
It is a book that many, no matter what age will find enjoyable to read.I loved reading this book because this book created one of the most realistic worlds I have encountered in a book.
Gosh I love having a new fantasy YA series to read!
It all started in the kingdom of Aularan where all good rangers are which Will a seventeen years old is one of the rangers.
And theirs the Morgarath which is the evil one.
So what happened is that Will and the other rangers found something strange which the evil Morgarath doesn't attack often in the Aularan kingdom anymore.
Then the rangers decides to sneak in to the Mirgarath.
And they see that their preparing an attack.
One thing I liked about the book was the fighting.
One thing I didn't liked about book was theirs always one important character that dies.
Granted, the concept of rangers was very appealing, and I really wanted to lose myself in the novel, but for some reason I could not get into Falanagan's writing style or the way he forms his prose.
However, there were many parts of the story that I felt were forced, Will's supposed romance, for example, as if Flanagan went through his novel once he was finished and decided to plug it in, just to appeal to his teenage female readers.My suggestion, if you are looking for a well-written, enjoyable fantasy that is easy to read and has endearing, believable characters, read The Chronicles of Prydain by Lloyd Alexander.
He's been set up to be the Big Bad, so I thought for sure he'd get away at the last instant of the single combat and escape to the mountains to attack again later.
It's a YA series, so it would have been really easy to keep Morgarath in a Big Bad, Voldemort sort of role, but it looks as though Flanagan wants to do more with the series.
Which, I mean, when Phedre got sold to the Skandians in the Jacqueline Carey books, no good came of it.
So far, I am really enjoying this series.
This book was a great follow up to the 1st book.Will has gained lots a fame but not from wealthEveryone knew him because of his stealthHe was a very big threatHis enemys should always be in fret
Jop, už jsem zase zhltla další díl. A je to boží!Víc akce, víc plánování, víc boje a víc přátelství...Jenom bych uvítala víc Halta, ale jinak to bylo skvělé!A ten konec? TO byl konec? Vážně, málem jsem začala brečet!4,5/5*
The Burning Bridge was a fantastic sequel in the Ranger's Apprentice series. It was just as good, if not better, than the first book. I think the fact that there the characters and setting had previously been introduced, allowed the story to advance with more ease. The storyline was engaging. The characters were fantastic - it certainly increased my affection for Gilan and Horace. I loved the dramatic ending but I am a little nervous about where it will take the story in The Icebound Land.
:D I'm enjoying the awesomeness that is these books sooo much.
Will is epic, Halt is wonderful, HORACE.
OH MY GRAVY HORACE.
<3 And then we get to see more of Gilan (!!!!) and meet Evanlyn, who is wonderful.
There were a bunch of plot twists I wasn't expecting, some I was (only because I accidentally read the back cover for book three...
whoops...), and overall a great story that I immensely enjoyed!
My only problem with this book was minor language (view spoiler)[2 uses of d*** (hide spoiler)] and some violence.
Overall an excellent read!
So glad I have the third book handy!
Oh, I need book three immediately.
Will's grown a lot since book one and he was quite capable in this book, which was great.
It was also great seeing him interact with new characters, although I missed him and Halt together.
Gilan was also awesome.Can I also mention how much I like the world?
I love when battle plans are well thought out and need to work on that in my own writing.(view spoiler)[Although, I was kind of shocked that Morgarath was killed so quickly.
I'm interested to see where it goes from here.
(hide spoiler)]My only problem with these books is the horrible head hopping that goes on.
Another enjoyable read (or rather, listen) during biking to work. I really like this series! It a good adventure series, suitable for boys and girls (12+) and I'm really happy there are so many more books :D I liked the humor and the plot, and oh my that ending!
A year has pass since Will became a Ranger's Apprentice and war is starting and the king is worried so Halt and Will kill Morgaraths men and retrieve a plan of tactics but later find out it's false so halt sends Will, Horace, and Gilan to Celtica to see how far Morgaraths men are close.
Horace with them plans to train since a war is starting then when they make it to Celtica they find out that everyone is gone.
Horace goes to warn them but it's to late the war has started and Halt is now afraid to hear that his apprentice is capture.
I particularly enjoyed getting to see more of Gilan’s personality and seeing the way that he led the younger characters was interesting and fun.
I did miss having Halt around, but I feel that he’ll certainly come into play more in book 3…This story is again following the adventures of young Will and Horace who are both wonderfully sarcastic, innocent and yet truly courageous and heroic characters.
I really enjoy hearing about their adventures and I hope that the series continues in a similar way to how it’s currently being told.
If you love adventure stories then this is a great, fast-paced and fun read and I think well-deserving of 4*s :)
Flanagan begins to hit his stride in this book.
Flanagan is quite good at cliffhanger endings that draw you in and I found his characters to be interesting.
It reads more like historical fiction--but it's in a fictional place (clearly modelled on medieval Europe, though).Don't think too hard about, just enjoy it.
And if you have children, especially boys, let them read it.
The boys in this book are appropriately protective of a girl who falls in their adventure, but she is not a helpless weakling, either.
I thought there was a good balance.I really think these books are great for young men especially.

This book was a very entertaining book. All though it did have an lot of build up until it got to the action and excitement in the end it was worth the read. You most definitively read the first book and consider reading the series through amazing adventures. The books story line is a spectacular one to follow because of all the surprising twists and turns. It is an a extraordinary story to read through, you should obviously read the whole series.
I really enjoyed reading this book and I have to say that I am officially a fan of the series.The ending really surprised me and I can't wait to read more.
I absolutely love this series, I cannot say enough about it, if there were 50 I would read them all. John Flanagan is a genius. Reread 8/6/17
I'm way too old for this, but I love it! :')
Reread Jan 2017. I continue to be impressed with the depth of military tactics. I am not versed in how historically accurate they might be, but they're detailed and make sense.
