https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30117284-carve-the-mark
In this book, though, I spent the majority of it wondering where the actual plot was.It's set in space, and I've heard other reviewers talking positively about how it doesn't feel like it's in space, so maybe that will also seem like a positive for you, but I felt like this story could have been set literally anywhere.
Carve the Mark opens with Shotet soldiers murdering Akos's father and capturing him and his younger brother.
What happens next is a very long bit of filler about Akos's time in the Shotet soldier camp, honing his fighting skills and chatting with Cyra about their countries, their powers, or just their favourite colours.
It's release day, so I can finally talk about my dislike for this book!
It's been a few months since I read it, so my feelings (and outrage) are no longer super fresh, but I'll do my best.I found this book to be SOOO boring and difficult to read, what with the ridiculous character names and dull plot.
I had tons of issues with the plot and pacing when I was reading the book, and I really had to force myself to pick it up.
The UK publisher asked me to review the book, they sent me a contract to sign for me to sign saying that I would get paid.
Let's talk about the elephant in the room: Sponsered reviews from booktubers who were paid to give a positive review and are completely ignoring the Racist Bullshit in this book.
Now most of these Booktubers are ones with influence, aka, Jesse, Kat, Christine, Regan, Sasha - And all of them gave the book a 4 star rating.
My issue is that they're happy enough to not talk about the Racism in the book because they'd rather get paid instead of being honest.
Goodreads doesn't allow sponsored reviews, so I had to take this down.
oooh, goodreads choice awards semifinalist for best YA fantasy! what will happen?i'm going to review this without giving too much away, which seems to be the publisher's desire, since this is the first time i have ever gotten an arc that had this across every single page. text blurred so no one yells at me. DON'T YELL AT ME!i am someone who liked the divergent trilogy. i even sort of liked those four stories: Four: A Divergent Story Collection. but i am SO SO pleased that roth has diverged (ho-H
i do love an author with more than one idea in their head.in a lot of ways, this book is like sagait's got that same romeo and juliet in spaaaaaaace thing going on, where two people on opposite sides of a long and deeply-rooted cultural animosity develop special feelings for each other after one of them is basically the prisoner of the other.
the romance is what it is - it's certainly handled better than the romance in other books i have read (including divergent, now that i think about it).
This behavior by the publisher is akin to self-published authors paying readers to post positive reviews of the work in order to boost sales.
I feel as if that money could have been better used to assist Roth in adjusting some of the problematic ideas presented in the book.I stopped reading at page 66.
As a result of that rape, Cyra's power manifests itself as pain.
Instead of drawing on redundant, harmful tropes, science fiction should offer the author and the readers the ability to create something new, to flip tropes and reinvent them.
Instead of purchasing or reading this, I recommend finding, like many others have suggested, an own voices/diverse work.
Where do I start?????Racial stereotyping and cultural misappropriations.Unflagged trigger warnings.And a romanticised depiction of chronic pain (something that is very personal to me).But let's begin with the writing.
Back to the story:The three main characters in this book are:Cyra, a Shotet girl who experiences chronic pain.
It's a very simplistic but beautiful way of expressing what daily life can be like for chronic illness and pain sufferers.
At the end of the day, this is a fictional story and Cyra does not suffer from a chronic illness per se (I'm incredibly aware that in future books there is a possibility for a narrative surrounding healing which I hope the author will not explore).
After Allegiant I don't know wether to trust Veronica Roth. I mean, that book... that fucking book:But let's give it a chance! Let's read the description:"in "the vein of 'Star Wars'""a boy's "unlikely alliance" with an enemy""what they most desire: for one, redemption, and the other, revenge,"Okay, okay! I'm in! I'm SO in!!However...2017?!?!?!YOU'VE MADE MY INNER CHEWBACCA ANGRY!!!!Listen to Solo, Veronica! Listen to him!
I AM SWORN TO SECRECY, JUST KNOW I REALLY ENJOYED THIS BOOK
BLOOD MONEY The second thing worth noting was the volume of paid reviews this book has on the front page.
Even if a tiny fraction of readers manage to earn a living wage reviewing books it will be at the cost of their personal integrity and the community's effectiveness.
If paid reviews get no "likes" and languish on the 20th page publishers won't bother trying to curate the book's image.
I don't come to GR to read 30 paid ads on the book I'm about to read, do you?Edit: Some booktubers and reviewers have vigorously defended themselves.
Also knowing Veronica Roth was a Star Wars fan and I am a Star Wars fan I figured what could possible go wrong.The book is very slow then as soon as something exciting happens it is the end of the chapter and the moment is lost.
Ryzek Noavek the ruler of Shotet (and Cyra's brother) will do anything to change his fate and show his people he is not weak.As much as I wanted to like this book I just don't, it is slow paced then skips ahead and tries to fill in blanks later.
This book tries to Sci-fi too hard3.
This book tries to world build too hardI do give it 3 stars because overall I found it enjoyable, but the the things above distracted me so much.
It really felt like Roth just wanted this book to be in space and threw out some special high tech weirdness to make it feel like other Sci-fi YA offerings (I was frequently reminded of Red Rising - which I did not care for very much)World building - Oh man, names, locations, traditions, races - one big confusing mashup!
I know many people are weary of what comes next from the daring author who shocked the world (and that is the LAST time I will mention her former series, because it is doing a great injustice to this beautiful book), and I know there are going to be a million comparisons-it’s just inevitable.
I tried, and failed, repeatedly to find errors with the book and why my best of friends wouldn’t like the story (or anyone, for that matter, if I’m being honest), but never once could think of anything.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestDivergent Wars: One Force will define you. Curious (and polite) people kept asking me if I was enjoying CARVE THE MARK while I was reading it. For the flippant response to that question, please refer to the opening of the song "Nobody But Me" by The Human Beinz. Or, you know, check out my star rating. (But my way is more fun, and you get a fun song out of it, too!)I was one of the few people who did not like DIVERGENT. Part of that was the
Or would it be more BS about smart people wrecking society and brave people jumping out of trains?CARVE THE MARK is a very weird book - and, to its credit, is a very different story from DIVERGENT.
It's about the Thuhve, a "peace-loving" people, and the Shotet, an opportunistic and war-like people who are ruled by a "tyrant" and who carve marks denoting their kills into their forearms.
Rhyzek uses her to do his dirty work and to put fear into his people.The power source in this book is something called the "current," which from what I gathered is like a cross between the "Lifestream" in Final Fantasy VII and the Force in Star Wars.
01/26/2017Having spent the last hour reading through Review 1, Review 2, Tweets, opinion posts, in addition to the comments threads, there seems to be a whole lot of furore about this book which, I must say, now has me intrigued enough to want to read Carve the Mark.
A few reviewers felt the need to disclaim previous reviews, while some bloggers sought to distance themselves from both the author and HarperTeen, the publishers.
What has me concerned is that I haven't read, yet, a review from a person of color.
Nevertheless, I will set aside the 20+ (laugh/scoff, you know you want to) "currently-reading" books to gladly dive into this one.
BR with the evil little pie. <3Dnf @ page 88This book is putting Maggie and I in a slump, not to mention extremely boring and slow.
I still want to read it; maybe I should just get it from the library if it doesn't have ten billion holds." On one of my routine trips to my library, I saw the book on the shelf and was wondering like "Can I actually check this out?" Turns out I could, and I did, and my initial thoughts were whether I was lucky to get one or if I'd set myself up for disappointment.The long and short of "Carve the Mark's" story centers on the conflict between two space societies: the Thuvue and the Shotet.
DNF @ 22% Sana and I are bored and are being put in a reading slump reading this.
The book is just boring, overall, and I haven't been reading ever since.
Like Sana, I'm either gonna hate this or love this because of the mixed reviews it has.2/26/17: I haven't read this book, but I was just looking at the reviews and so many readers have deleted their rating (only the rating) and added notes to the review saying this book deals with problematic issues that can be taken as offensive including ableism, racism, and disrespect.
If you've read Under the Never Sky by Veronica Rossi, you can imagine the Current as the aurora-borealis-like Aether.
With that in mind, reading this book required a lot of effort and patience.My reading experience became somewhat better when I became familiar with the complex world and the author's quite different writing style (i.e. Cyra's chapters are in first person, while Akos's are in third person).
As for the romance between Cyra and Akos, I thought that it was reminiscent to that of Divergent's Tris and Four.
Like Tris, Cyra wasn't aware of the fine line between bravery and stupidity.
Secondly, I feel duty-bound to let you know that Carve the Mark has raised issues regarding racism and cultural stereotypes and the author's thoughts about chronic illnesses -also with reference to this interview.
Ad for the rest of the cast, well, I liked the villain, but apart from these three, no one else is worth special mention.➽ Since that little yet so charming detail in the world-building won me over so thoroughly, and since I am genuinely curious to know how some of the dynamics established between some of the characters will play out, I will be picking the sequel up.
2.5 stars, rounding down because WTF kind of ending was that?I'll just get this out of the way: I hated Allegiant, but I really liked Divergent and Insurgent.
There's The Evil Bad Guy. Another brother who was also kidnapped and becomes a shell of what he once was due to The Evil Bad Guy using him for his currentgift.I went from really liking it, to liking it okay, and then I just started to get annoyed.
It's like the story just ended with a lot of things unresolved.
How annoying.I have heard that some people think this book is racist?
It was just an okay, mostly boring book.
I'm disappointed because it seemed like it would be good.
EXCERPT ALERT: http://www.ew.com/article/2016/05/05/...:)
By god, is that cover appealing.Now let's pray the stuff inside it is too.
Sadly, large portions of this book were just confusing and slow.
Which brings me to another thing I loved about this book.Roth did an incredible job building her characters from a psychological standpoint.
But before I dive headfirst into negativity land … I want to acknowledge the fact that, while I will not take the time to chronicle each and every moment/plot-point/collection-of-words that I liked about this book, I did enjoy the story for the most part.
To say that a majority of this book was confusing as fuck would be an appropriate assessment.
This story is told by two characters - Akos, a Thuvhe, and Cyra, a Shotet.
But the more he and Cyra interact, the more they learn about each other, and the more they realize that they share common interests, interests that could incite wars.The beginning of the book was incredibly confusing (I'll talk about that in the next section), but once I (sort of) got a grasp of the world and everything going on, I started to get into the story and really sink into it.
I don't think the "kill marks" which feature in this book are okay.
My friend Cait talks more about how they these marks can be connected to self harm.
Also, to tell people their opinion about the racism, ableism and triggers which feature in this book is invalid or wrong is highly ignorant behaviour .
You are allowed to enjoy this book, but stay away of the problems that do feature and stay open to others opinions, especially those who have been harmed by this novel.For more information on the ableism, which is primarily about chronic pain because described as a gift, read Emer's review.
Am I the only one confused by the blurb? What I'm getting is Romeo and Juliet, superpowers, and a thinly-veiled Abnegation/Dauntless showdown thing. Too much, yet too little.
"I didn't choose the blood that runs in my veins," I replied. "Any more than you chose your fate. You and I, we've become what we were made to become." I feel like I could throw a dart in a bookstore and hit at least a dozen YA books with practically the same quote and premise. The nature vs nurture debate is well-trodden ground in fiction, not just in YA. Is there such thing as fate? Are villains born or made? These are all themes that can be reinvigorated and made fresh and unique, but Carve
And it ends abruptly just when things are getting exciting, as though it knows it needs something to bring readers back.There's absolutely nothing noteworthy about the main characters Cyra and Akos.
I personally think Ryzek, Cyra's power-hungry brother, is a far more interesting character to focus on because his currentgift allows him to swap out his own memories for someone else's.
For the record, the title refers to a Shotet practice where lines are carved on their arm to mark their kills.
Pain is a main theme in Carve the Mark and is ultimately presented as something positive, something that helps you build character.
Well, hello there, pretty book.
2 En una galaxia No muy lejana…  STARS  "The darkness was pain, and I was made of it, I was pain itself."  Tenía tantas cosas que quería debatir con ustedes, que termine sobrecargándome, y al final ya no soy capaz de expresarme coherentemente referente a todo lo que quería decir de este libro. Sorry amigos les he fallado, esta reseña es un big fat mess, al menos encaja a la perfección con el mess que es este libro. Empezare esta reseña con 2 pequeñas pero muy importantes declaraciones.1-Mi rese
Algo muy importante en esta galaxia son las personas de fate, cuando nacen, los oráculos ven su futuro que ya está completamente predestinado.
(hide spoiler)]La historia en si es MEDIOCRE, empieza muy bien, pero el desarrollo decae mucho porque no sabemos hacia dónde va la historia, más de la mitad del libro nos la pasamos como en pausa con los personajes sin avanzar, solo al final tenemos un poco de acción.
