https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1771881.The_Ivory_Dagger
3 1/2 starsI was not feeling very well and all I wanted to read was a nice, cozy novel. This book from the Miss Silver series fit the bill admirably.
Always love Miss Silver. Very nice cozy little mysteries...just wish someone would give her a cough drop. Three and a half stars.
The Ivory Dagger (Miss Silver #18), Patricia Wentworth
Another good mystery by Ms. Wentworth.
I wish I had found her earlier.
It is almost impossible to find her books now.
This story is a mystery and romance tied together.
Again as in most of her mystery one of the heroines is a needy girl disguised as a woman.
Luckily the other heroine was not.
There are plenty of people wanting the victim dead and from time to time they are all suspected.
I had a couple of potentials in mind.
I went with the second one and I was right.
The romance will be a 'happily ever after' as you probably will guess.
Given this is a murder mystery, it’s no surprise when an unpleasant wealthy collector ends up stabbed with the ivory dagger he just bought. Miss Silver, former governess turned private detective, sorts through the many suspects in this cleverly plotted story to identify the killer.
Murderers usually come to their just desserts in this series, but trustees who steal bunches of money never seem to be punished (unless they were also the murderer).
Wise, elderly lady goes to the manor house to detect the identity of the hateful industrialist's murderer. Ah, Golden Age of Mystery.
I particularly enjoy how the relationship between Maud Silver and the Scotland Yard man, Frank Abbot continues to develop.Recently I viewed new presentations of a couple of Miss Marple stories on PBS Masterpiece Mystery and do think there are some similarities between Miss Marple and Miss Silver.
It has been many years since I read the Agatha Christie mysteries, but I am finding that I really like Miss Silver, as a personality, better, and I think she is much more clever and subtle and not so doddering.
I wonder why PBS has not done these mysteries, and if they did, who would they get to play Miss Maud Silver.
Patricia Wentworth Miss Silver crime mysteries are set in post-war Britain and set among the English upper classes or upper middles.
Miss Silver is very Edwardian or even Victorian and is an ex-governess turned detective.
Her crime novels are cosy, comfortable, uplifting, old-fashioned British, fire-side reads.
As I generally cannot remember who did it, I can read her whodunnits again and again.This crime novel features a bland, weak-charactered female called Lila who would have been an ideal heroine in a Victorian romance, but Ray the main heroine is a fiesty female who fits well in the mid- to late- 20th Century.
I loved the setting.
Great plot, and an easy, enjoyable read.
First, at least three times, as Miss Silver and/or the police were considering the case, it was reviewed in such a way as to seem whatever had happened was simply being repeated or rehashed.
I felt like I was re-reading and did not appreciate that style.
Second, why does Miss Silver cough so dang much?
It was near to the point the woman could not speak without first making a cough.
I was ready for her to choke, sneeze, grimace, clear her throat, gag, or simply speak....anything but another cough.
they are almost all complete bastards.
that is kind of strange.Cast of thousands!
Forcing Lila to marry Herbert.
Lila Dryden - Exquisitely lovely.
Everyone wants to marry her.
Wants to marry Lila.
Adrian Grey - Kind and sensitive architect-type of person.
Does not particularly like Herbert.
Has assumed he was Herbert's heir.Professor - Would like to have all the pretty ivory things Herbert buys and brags about.
No one ever notices her because they all fall in love with Lila.Miss Whitaker - Herbert's secretary.
Collects beautiful things and enjoys them much more if someone else wanted them.
I read this book because, according to the publisher's note, 'Patricia Wentworth was as popular in the 1940s as Agatha Christie'.
While this was certainly an interesting read in places, it was nowhere near Agatha Christie's standards.
This was because they were revealed simply because another character saw them in a certain place at a certain time.
To be fair, as I've remarked, the book was well written and - the ending apart (and a couple of annoying characters) - it was a pleasant read.
Lovely Lila doesn't want to marry Sir Herbert, but her step mother is making her.
She no longer wants to marry Bill Waring either, but she is afraid he'll make her.
When Sir Herbert is found stabbed to death, Lila is found sleepwalking next to him, with a bloodstained dress and the dagger at her feet.
Except for the dead Sir Herbert, of course - but he was so extremely cruel and vile that no one mourns him.
Everyone ends up better off (except the murderer, who ends up in jail, of course).
time of death that accurate?).
Intriguing while it lasted (though there was definitely a Murder on the Orient Express cast of characters), but not really treasured re-read material.
I was misled about the murderer quite thoroughly, and Wentworth made the suspense play out quite a long way, so it's got that going for it.
On the other hand, there's a brainless young woman who hasn't the sense got gave a cat, another who is very sensible and in love with a man who she believes belongs to another who is strong, honorable and not as quick on the uptake as you'd like, and a thoroughly unpleasant villain-- rather stock, I'm afraid.
4-* This is the second book I’ve been through this year that has focused on Sir Walter Scott’s The Bride of Lammermoor, I have it on my to-be-read list so I’m going to try and make a push to read it next year. Maybe. I rather enjoyed this Miss Silver Mystery, in spite of Lila; she is the sort of piteous, weak-spirited, girl that makes me wish the author had injected some grit into her diet. Pat is such a refreshing counterpart to her and I’m pleased she ended up with her young man.Emsworth, Hampshire (free ebook collection https://www.fadedpage.com/sc/wentwort...)
Free | Better than some in the series, there are more twists than usual but it contains the most insipid of Wentworth's girls, and that's saying something. | How anyone at any time in history could have believed that men existed on the planet who would want to marry Lila, let alone three who would vie for the opportunity, I do not understand.
I do love a good page-turner. This is another good mystery by Wentworth. I thought I knew the identity of the murderer and then was shocked to find that I was totally wrong! Good characters and oodles of motives for the crime. Most enjoyable.
I love old mysteries. I like them better when they don't start with an extended chapter that could be replace by a couple of sentences, have a murder early on and a credible and fully explained motive, and they don't have a totally gratuitous use of the N word.
Razoável
Another delightful mystery with Miss Silver in top form!
This is more of a mystery and less of a romance than the usual Miss Silver novel. I liked all the characters and even the secondary villain is given a plausible motivation and a shot at redemption.
Lots of fun. One star off for the milk-toast, shrinking violet being forced into a marriage she abhors. However, the interaction between Miss Silver and Frank Abbott is delightful, as usual.
It lost a star simply for the numerous (and increasingly annoying) references to Miss Silver coughing . . . an editor was sorely needed.
When Bill Waring wakes from a post-train-accient coma after a month, the first thing he thinks of is his fiancee back home in England, the lovely Lila Dryden.
He's puzzled when he finds he's had no letters from her, and completely flabbergasted to find, when he finally gets home, that she's engaged to a wealthy but disagreeable older man and will be married the following week.
Lila, meanwhile, who has all the spine of an amoeba, has been forced into a hateful engagement by her ruthless aunt, but doesn't want to marry Bill, either.
Overall, though, just a great classic puzzle mystery with a murder victim everyone hated.
Erinnert ein bisschen an das Spiel 'Cluedo'.Zugegeben, auch die Ermittler der 'modernen Literatur' wie Alex Cross, Com. Brunetti, Aurelio Zen oder Inspektor Rebus können sich nicht immer auf DNA-Spuren verlassen sondern müssen haarscharf recherchieren und kombinieren.
Aber dieses Buch hier vermittelt einem wirklich noch das Gefühl von Polizeiarbeit in längst vergangener Zeit.
Dieser Teil der Miss-Silver-Reihe wurde erst 1950 geschrieben und spielt auch erst nach dem 2.
Ich hatte von Anfang an eine bestimmte Person in Verdacht, und lag damit nicht ganz falsch.
Schön, wie immer wieder jemand anderes zum Hauptverdächtigen wurde, so kam keine Langeweile auf.
herbert Whitall, a wealthy disagreeable bachelor is murdered shortly before he is due to be married.
This is quite an enjoyable murder mystery, with a houseful of suspects, all of whom have good reason to want herbert Whitall dead, and despite the presence in the house of several policeman, it naturally is Miss Silver who sorts out which is the guilty one.
i found this more interesting than most of the others in the series i have read - i didn't guess the identity of he murderer before the end, as.
the main drawback is that Whitall's fiancee is a girl so idiotic it stretches credibility that anyone would want to marry her.
Lila Drydan is a spineless young woman of doubtful intelligence. She is engaged against her will to a beastly man who only wishes to marry her in order to added her to his collection of beautiful objects and also because of his desire to beat out the man who was her unannounced fiance. Just days before the wedding she is found in his study around midnight standing beside his corpse with blood on her hand and clothes and her fingerprints on the ivory dagger. Miss Silver coughs her way to the solution of this mystery.
I used to read and enjoy Patricia Wentworth's mystery novels, but I don't remember reading a Miss Silver series book, and I was disappointed in this one. The plot is all right as it's set up, but then Miss Silver and Detective Abbot rely far too heavily on motives to solve the case. I couldn't help thinking if they would only turn to opportunity and means earlier, the case would have been solved a lot sooner. It was exasperating to be able to think of several questions they should have been asking in practically every interview.
Typical Miss Silver, she coughed and knitted through yet another murder. The young woman, Lila, who was engaged to at least 2 men, was so simpering that this reader just wanted to slap and scream at her "grow up!" I have only 7 more Miss Silver books to read before I'm done with the series of 32 books.
I don't know why I read any whodunnits, I get bored with the revelations held back to make what should always be a short story into a novel, but then I read another one.This was ok, with at least some attempt to build characters - well more than in Christie, which I know doesn't say much.
