https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414062.The_Best_and_the_Brightest
It had all the ingredients of a great novel: a tragic plot of almost Shakespearean proportions, a fascinating cast of characters, and some wonderful writing." —Liaquat Ahamed, The Independent.
01 January 2010"In 1963, the notion that a newspaper reporter might challenge the official story of generals and ambassadors in the middle of a war, essentially accusing them of lying, was so improbable that it could have occurred only to someone still in his twenties.
McCarthyism set the stage, so alcohol was involved.
The personal profiles of the men involved are excellent.
******************************************https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytim...https://www.nytimes.com/2008/12/07/op...https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/20...https://www.independent.co.uk/arts-en...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Bes...
However, in one of those little ironies of history, he was completely unable to avoid following a similar path of small but irreversible escalations in Vietnam, until the full-on war he had been trying to avoid eventually trapped his successors and millions of people in the senseless slaughter of the Vietnam War.I think Halberstam's book is easily as perceptive, in broad terms, as Tuchmann's classic.
Recently Colin Powell answered a NYT book review question by saying that this book is the one he would require President Obama to read .
The book starts with Kennedy's election and how he staffed his administration with "the best and the brightest" men of the time.
To be on the Kennedy team, you had to be pragmatic, logical and never allow emotions to cloud thinking.
I don't know about the people surrounding Obama but long before the election I was positive that, regardless of the stirring rhetoric, this man functioned from a purely pragmatic base.
They didn’t get it about a little bit pregnant.Have you noticed that this is a book about men?
Well, of course, it’s about politics and war in the 1960s and 1970s when women didn’t exist in these arenas.
In SE Asia women were in brothels for the guy soldiers.
I actually did find the book to be a page turner at times but mostly not in the biographical segments.One last thing: in 1964 Lyndon Johnson was elected President by a landslide as the peace candidate!
If you are a Baby Boomer, as I am, this book will remind you of some things that you may have tried hard to forget.
Along the way we learn the backgrounds, motivations and impact of key figures: Robert McNamara, Dean Rusk, John Paton Davies, McGeorge Bundy, William Bundy, Walt Rostow, Dean Acheson, George Ball, Averill Harriman, Clark Clifford, Roger Hilsman, John McNaughton, Maxwell Taylor, Paul Harkins, William Westmoreland, Robert Kennedy and of course JFK and LBJ.
With Foreign Service Asian experts discredited and discarded, two European experts with no experience in Asia, the new Ambassador Frederick Nolting and his friend William Truehart, were assigned to Viet Nam. With background in NATO and European affairs they viewed events through the prism of the communist threat and ignored the nationalistic nature of the Viet Cong insurgency.JFK then sent interventionists General Maxwell Taylor and Mac Bundy deputy Walt Rostow to Saigon to report back.
The men who led their country into the disastrous Vietnam war.Halberstam spent over two years interviewing people to write this book and he clearly did his research.
If the definition of best and brightest had been more inclusive, if different types of intelligent and thoughtful people had been allowed access to decision-making, the results might have been different.For those interested in how decisions were made from the American side, in how a group of smart men could make such serious mistakes, this is a book worth reading.
A wonderfully written and engaging history of the war in Vietnam from its origins in the 1940s until 1970.
It's inconceivable that rational human beings can act in this way, so one must conclude that Presidents, presidential hangers-on and career soldiers can't possibly be rational human beings, and that includes the gang of war criminals, Obama, Gates and Clinton, currently in power.One can only hope that the national debt grows to many tens of trillions of dollars, to whatever level it needs to rise - even if a consequence is the total liquidation of "middle America" as a class - so that we can no longer indulge the flaws of our national character, apart, one also hopes, from our penchant for civil war and mutual extermination.
Instead, its an account of extremely decent, brilliant, and well-qualified men slipped into a trap, and how their struggles to break free of this trap only got them more firmly stuck.My only other experience with Halberstam is with his sports writing, specifically his masterful Breaks of the Game, an account of a season Halberstam spent with the Portland Trailblazers in the late 1970s.
For example, although Breaks is ostensibly about the 1979-80 Portland Trailblazer's season, it also works as a thought-provoking analysis of the NBA in the '70s.Halberstam uses a similar structure in The Best and the Brightest.
What I took away from the book was a feeling of cynical remorse for what might have been, for how our political mistakes as a people seem to have taken such a dramatic turn during and after this time period but, also, a feeling that the American public bought into a myth, an idea that seems to have never really existed.
The myth, however, was that these then were somehow truly different, that they, as the best and the brightest, heeded what the American public wanted.
I'd always viewed Halberstam as an excellent conventional journalist.
The mainstreamest of the mainstream, as it were.
Hey, maybe I should have read him?
While he did write mainstream books and they're excellent, The Best and the Brightest is something else, very unorthodox in its way and stunningly brilliant.
Halberstam researched the dickens out of his material and came to understand it in a way that surpasseth understanding.
He got it, deeply deeply deeply, and wrote it from the right side of his brain.
His sentence structure is often, let's call it creative.
And he nails it.
An incredibly good narrative on how America became so heavily involved in Vietnam.
His profiles of the major figures, such as Robert McNamara, Dean Rusk, and MacGeorge Bundy, are both enlightening and disheartening.
It is disheartening because many of these guys were so smart that they should have (and probably did) know better than to make the decisions they made.
I guess the moral that anyone who reads this books should take away is that any president and/or administration that misleads and does not inform the American people of his or its policies, that doesn't get detailed, truthful, and correct intelligence on the enemy, is doomed to failure.
Tragic in the truest sense. It shows the cost of huebris and reminds us that even the best of our leaders cannot really see the end from the beginning. Real leaders with equal parts curiousity to ask question after question and the skeptism to evaluate answers from all angles are rare indeed.
Read this years ago when it first appeared. As a result, I read everything Halberstam wrote. Whenever I hear anyone discuss hiring only the "best and the brightest" now, I shudder.
His message is for people to remember that arrogance has no place even (or especially) among the best and the brightest, for the game will eventually play you.
But the biggest chill that the author gave me was not the fact that if the best and the brightest can fall into such a folly what more the lesser beings, it was that it is precisely when you think you have control of the game that you lose control.
He was such a gifted reporter and writer, able to flesh out the often conflicting motives in people and describe how their personalities significantly impacted policy decisions.
Halberstam does focus on personalities as far as history goes - believing that peoples' beliefs, concerns, fears, flaws, and strengths had much more impact on events than the reverse.
Both books are remarkably similar although they deal with different time periods and people.
This book concerns the massive bungling, ineptitude, hubris, and poor policy planning during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations that led to the U.S. getting irrevocably entangled in Vietnam.
Halberstam’s The Best and the Brightest describes America’s inexorable drift into war in Southeast Asia.
Reviewing the political players in Washington DC during the slide, Halberstam begins with a focus on the Kennedy years and how JFK emerged on a promise of change after years of disappointment in leadership … much like Barack Obama would come forward 50 years later.
The key for JFK, and eventually Lyndon Baines Johnson, was the people he surrounded himself with — the titled The Best and the Brightest, and how each played a role in enabling the passage into a miserable and tragic war.
As he says in the afterword, a book about America, not Vietnam.
A book about what power and success mean in America, and the way those forces guided the tragedy in Vietnam.
I felt that it was, in many ways a companion to "A Bright and Shining Lie" (the other titanic work in English language Vietnam literature).
It was flowing and conversational, pithy, circular, peppered with anecdotes and parenthetical details that bring the players and the era to life in a way no other work ever has for me.
One of the books on Vietnam that I would recommend to English majors, simply for the language.
This book was first published in 1972 and has held up quite well over time. It is an examination of the men who were brought into government by President Kennedy and who stayed in government to work with Lyndon Johnson. Unfortunately, these "best and brightest" also worked together to form the policies that gradually drew the United States into the war in Vietnam. A must read for anyone who is involved in developing public policy.
A big ole nonfiction book that explains the background behind American involvement in Vietnam. It also gave me a new insight into how decisions are made in Washington by walking you through all the people that were influencing JFK during his presidency. It helped me understand more about the similarities between Vietnam and Iraq.
✭✭✭✭½
History teaches us that man learns nothing from history. (Friedrich Hegel)
Yes, very relevant today.Halberstam does a deep dive here, looking back at the historical record, rolling back to Truman and Acheson, looking at how the political scars of the “who lost China” meme impacted the U.S. psyche, how the Joseph McCarthy campaigns, over by 1960, exercised gravitational pull on the foreign policy establishment, most especially the Bureau of Far Eastern Affairs in the Department of State.
Halberstam shows us how, in the run up to the Kennedy Administration, the GOP assault on “who lost China” managed to not only ruin the careers of many qualified people, but that “realistic” policy ideas on China, and Indochina were just not welcome at the State Department.
I think it gets harder every day, every day we lose a little control, each decision that we make wrong, or don't make at all, makes the next decision a little harder because if we haven't stopped it today, then the reasons for not stopping it will still exist tomorrow, and we'll be even deeper." -John McNaughtonThere's shit like that every couple of pages in "The Best and Brightest"...
Great, revealing quotes from all the power players of that era: Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, Robert McNamara, Dean Rusk, McGeorge Bundy.
Quotes that give Halberstam's narrative the feel of epic tragedy.
While the Kennedy/Johnson administrations were made up of smart and talented people, these were also people who never bore the long term responsibilty for the results of there beliefs nor have they engaged in the down to earth nature of politics with its interaction with people on a base level.The team had a bit of arrogance, the sense that they knew what was right for the nation and world and they did not have to listen or consult with others.
The hidden truths, the low-ball cost estimates and the outright deceits that were made in order to build and maintain support both Johnson's Great Society domestic program and the Vietnam foreign policy came to a head as both programs lacked the resources needed to succede, and both failed.This book is a study in hubris.
It has held up well over the years as far as being a documentary of the decisions and the people that made them, BUT, it tends to make some assumptions of familiarity that may have been valid at the time of its writing, but not so much now, or to me, having been born in 1972 and viewing the War through the filter and bitter memories of those who lived it more personally.
My takeaway from the book is that every single draft dodger who ever rose up and refused to participate in this immense tragedy should be awarded the National Medal of Freedom, because what our leaders did to the young men who served is one of the great injustices ever wrought upon the people of the United States.
We saw it as a real army which needed only a little prodding, an adviser or two, a few people to help the soldiers with map reading; a more vigorous leadership by the better officers, trained by Americans.
This illusion about a dynamic new leadership would persist relentlessly through the years.""...the enemy was first and foremost political, which meant that the support of the population made the guerrillas' way possible.
The Best and the Brightest is one of Halberstam’s most remembered works and explores how one of the most intelligent cabinet and advisers in the history of the Presidency was able to become embroiled in a conflict in Vietnam that so many knew was a bad idea.
With excellent back stories on all the relevant players and their role in Vietnam this book provides invaluable looks at how this war came about.
Although over 30 years old it is still a must read for anyone trying to understand how the United States could become involved in Vietnam.
I'd been wanting to read this for many years and I'm glad I finally made the commitment to plow through it.Not that doing so is difficult. Halberstam is a masterful writer and storyteller, and he brings alive the incredibly complex characters who masterminded and pursued the Vietnam war despite evidence and realities which suggested the US could never succeed. Obviously, this has many echoes with the Bush administration's pursuit of the war in Iraq and it's interesting to consider how they are similar and different.
Spoiler: My favorite passage is a scene in which a presidential avisor, dispatched to Vietnam meets with a buddhist monk, and endeavors to work with him to resolve the problem of the monks immolating themselves.After some conversation he mentions to the monk that he feels they've made progress, and that they're working on parallel tracks. Realizing that the idiom might not translate well, he asks the monk whether he was acquainted with the idea. The Monk agrees and replies that oh, yes. Parallel tracks: It means their minds can *never* meet....
