https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14281.Selected_Stories
Much like the Southern Gothic to which Flannery O'Connor and William Faulkner belong (I was recommended Munro due to my obsession with those two authors which characterized my reading selection during my late teens and early twenties), Munro’s fiction builds on the social, political, moral and religious atmosphere of her region as the past is always shaping the present in the lives of her characters.
Before reading this collection, I'd read one or two of Munro's stories in the New Yorker -- "Deep-Holes" was good enough to tear out & keep -- but I really didn't know what she was up to in general.
This collection of short stories will let the reader feel thoroughly familiar with, though never bored by, Munro's style.
In a restaurant, I told my husband that Munro's characters are just slightly more interesting than actual people tend to be.
Munro has been compared to Chekhov and Tolstoy, but I think her writing is slightly less philosophical and more titillating than is theirs - and better for solitary twilight indulging.
She has made her choice.Later on, the local newspaper covers her death and she is described as an eccentric woman who lost her mind, making indirect allusions to her undesirable condition of being unmarried.The price she has to pay to remain independent is that of brief allusions to her poetry, and a more apologetic, detailed account of her personal life, which clearly didn't satisfy the general opinion.Sad and unbelievable, but still so common today...Merged review:Oh my, what a trip.This short story had my mind reeling, my heart racing and my stomach churning with anticipation.
Especially in the stories that are connected by character and place, a collage-like effect begins to take hold, and you feel that Munro is filling in the details of a much larger canvas than it initially appeared.
A lot of my favorite short story writers come from a place that is similar to my own -- whether it's my life and circumstances, my own preferences as a reader and writer, etc.
What i find interesting about Munro is that her style, her subject, her characters and their homes -- none of it suggests an obvious connection to my own interests.
I bet Alice Munro is responsible for a lot of really bad writing.
The language is so natural and the scenes so well drawn that the text requires no effort to read.
It is tempting to believe then that they took no effort or particular talent, or even much a subject matter, to write.
What I am left with is a sense that I witnessed these stories, so that now it takes more effort to remember reading about that family than it does to see them sitting on the deck after dinner.
The only explanation that I have is that Alice Munro put them there.
Alice Munro writes entirely in the medium of short stories.
Munro's stories are brief, but the impressions her characters and the events to which they are sewed leave with the reader are long lasting.
In White Dump, Munro gives us two characters, one a mother, the other her daughter, who move forward and back towards an event that does not seem inescapable, but is just as fixed by the ennui that everyday life creates.This book's only weakness is that it takes stories from other collections, sometimes missing the mark on the arrangement of themes.
And I love that ‘click’ that comes with the short story, that feeling as you get to the end that you intend to go right back to the beginning again, and that this will be a great pleasure, and that you will do it again and again and again.I’ve been reading this Selected all summer and as I’ve worked my way through, I have marveled at the cool, clean style, at the author’s superb way with words.
Read on to find out.Munro sets the scene in the first 8-paragraph section, and the main characters are laid on the canvas: the two who died (nameless at this point), Peg and Robert (their neighbours) and Clayton and Kevin (Peg’s sons).
This was our latest book club pick, and it was selected because many in the literary community think that Alice Munro should win the Pulitzer Prize; it’s reputed that the only reason she hasn’t is that no author who exclusively writes short stories has ever won (oh, literary politics).
I’ve heard it said that her stories illuminate the extraordinary in the ordinary lives of people, and it’s a fair depiction of her style.
One thing that sets Munro apart for me is her decision to write several short stories about the same protagonist.
rather than go through each book i decide to just note those i really like in this selection, then maybe the collections since.
you also will never feel like you have wasted reading time, as she is always concise, always readable, always resonant...theory on reading alice munro: if each collection has thirteen stories, three or four will be good, six or seven very good, three or four will be excellent- and make up for any weaker ones.
and then, for each reader and each time, this appreciation of her work will shift and change, change and shift...also, best to read occasionally, not all at once.
This is totally random, but when we were in Victoria, BC, I walked into this giant, wonderful bookstore called Munro's Books. I bought a few things there, and the cashier gave me some free store bookmarks. Well, I pulled one out the other day to stick in this book, and then read in the author bio that Alice Munro is in fact the owner of Munro's Books! Go figure.The stories I have read so far are WONDERFUL. Thanks for the rec, Paula!
My first Munro.
I learned that you have to slow down--really, really slow down--and let yourself be carried along in the cadence of each sentence.
Sentences are fragments.
Her whole stories can be fragments placed together, artfully and artlessly.
"The Progress of Love": A complex story that defies summary and ages extremely well.
“Miles City, Montana”: Munro really accomplishes the impossible here—making me, who is not anywhere near to being a parent, feel parenthood, a feat akin to making a blind person feel colour.4.
"Fits": A quintessentially Canadian story that takes place in the Great Canadian Winter.
I have read about halfway through this book and am going to have to set it aside.
I can appreciate the literary quality of Alice Munro's writing, but I don't enjoy her stories.
It's not that I have to enjoy everything I read, but I haven't cared about or identified with a single character very much.
None of them are very memorable.These stories are dreary and devoid of any joy, humor, hope or beauty.
I can see why Munro's stories are critically acclaimed, but they're not for me.
Give me a Wendell Berry story over one of these any day.
Unfortunately, this wonderful writer is not for me. Her stories are so dismal. I've tried to read Ms. Munro's work many times and I always end up abandoning it. OK, let me be perfectly blunt: For me, this woman's writing can ruin a perfectly good day. Her writing is magnificent; her subject matter plunges me down a dingy well.
OMG, I am so happy I'm finally done with book. Apparently I am not a fan of short stories. I don't like how by the time you have gotten to know a character the story is over. And when these short stories end, they just end. There's never much of an ending. I just don't get the appeal.
From this collection, three tales stood out: "The Dance of The Happy Shades", "Labor Day Dinner" and "Meneseteung".
And she does so with frank, heartfelt prose."Meneseteung" is, and I think anyone who has felt it will agree, a masterful description of the poetic process, the fever dream.
I would recommend "Labor Day Dinner" to everyone and anyone, as it faces the two most important things in life and literature: love (the great mirror) and death.
Seriously one on the best short story collections I've ever read.
I cannot say enough good things about Munro.
Some of these stories are set in the country, some revolve around urban life, and some straddle the line between the two.
Some of her rural stories are indeed gothic, particularly the ones set in the nineteenth century.
Mostly, the stories in this collection are about relationships, romantic and platonic, the tension between urban and rural life, and in general love, how to find meaning in one's life.
If you like good, moving fiction then I highly recommend this, or really any of her collections.
My only problem with this collection is that in reading the stories one after another, the characters being to appear quite similar to one another.
Of course, I believe these stories came in Munro's own middle age, and it reflects that.
Still, she does an excellent job of making each character and story unique and distinct despite this common base.The wisdom that comes with age is easily seen in the way her characters reflect, revise, and recall.
I'd definitely recommend Ms. Munro as a writer and I'd recommend this volume, but I would recommend reading the stories with some space in between so as to make each story distinct.
I was intrigued by the blurbs on the back of this edition--had heard a lot about her but never read anything, seeing as most of her work has been published in anthologies and magazines.
I'm not one for short stories or short fiction, but the narrative voices here are truly distinct.
In her stories about her native Canada, Munro delivers with a consistent, pragmatic and low-key narration that draws one in with details and insights not with the "unerhoerte Begebenheit" or "seminal moment" introduced in most modern short story writing.
I feel almost that these stories aspire to teach one about life rather than entertain.
For readers seeking storytellers capable of rescuing the modern world from its relentless stripping down of human experience to the simplest possible narrative explanation, Alice Munro will intrigue and satisfy.To complement her exploration of mid-century femininity, Munro offers many fascinating portraits of men and manhood, slyly slaying most of them with her unparalleled female gaze:"Will people really go, will people who could be swimming or drinking or going for a walk really take themselves out to the campus to find the room and sit in rows listening to those vain quarrelsome men?
It’s hard to put my thoughts on this book into words, but I’ll attempt to. - Almost every story manages to connect the reader to the story in approximately 20 pages, makes you care about the characters.- This book contains lots of dry humour and I love dry humour.- Most of them are about ordinary women in Canada in some sort of marriage/love situation but definitely not all of them.- I found it very interesting how characters changed over time, how they developed after certain experiences and th
-	Almost every story manages to connect the reader to the story in approximately 20 pages, makes you care about the characters.-	This book contains lots of dry humour and I love dry humour.-	Most of them are about ordinary women in Canada in some sort of marriage/love situation but definitely not all of them.-	I found it very interesting how characters changed over time, how they developed after certain experiences and their approach to them.-	The book is full of details and delicate descriptions and observations into human nature and I love it.
A must-own volume if you love short stories.
However, the award did the trick and I was able to grab this collection of short stories at a discount from the India Book Fair at Pragati Maindan, New Delhi.So what's so special about the writings of Alice Munro that she has won both a Man Booker and the Nobel?To read Alice Munro is to jump into an ocean and be immersed from all sides, top and bottom.
Her short stories so rich in detail of both physical surroundings and feelings that each story fills the reader like a complete novel.
My favorite stories in the selection, designed to represent different periods in her writing, are, for now, “Royal Beatings,” “Wild Swans,” “The Moons of Jupiter,” “The Albanian Virgin,” and “Vandals.” But, favorites will probably change with rereading.In describing her writer’s experience, Munro said, “A story is not like a road to follow, it’s more like a house.
To deliver a story like that, durable and freestanding, is what I’m always hoping for.”As Munro’s Selected Stories demonstrate, she is often successful at achieving her artistic intention.
Selected Stories is a series of beautifully wrought tales collected to show range during a lifetime of work and it’s a house of learning for story writers.
In dicussing the evolution of her craft, Munro notes that as she's aged she's become more reluctant to obey the inclination to give up on frustrating starts, and suggests that the often surprising folds in memory and shifts in plot, time, and mood that characterize her best work are the fruits of this circling, highly exploratory process.
Having read her collections "The Beggar Maid" and "Open Secrets" in their entirety--and her later collections "Runaway" and "Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage"--I've realized the degree to which Munro writes for the collection.
28 of Alice Munro's best short stories written between 1961 and 1994.
Though for sure a fine selection, I find the range of the stories very broad, varying from some of one or two stars to some definite fives.
My favorite story is by far "The Albanian Virgin", which is also the most recent of the texts included in the book - it was published in "The New Yorker" in 1994.
The main character is an old woman and her perspective on life is not just mature and wise, but also refreshing and inspiring.
There couldnt be a better book if you talk about short stories than this! This is the best of the stories of the best short story writer now alive! ALICE MUNRO! When would she win the NOBEL PRIZE? I should go on that she is severely understated! Why? Perhaps the readers could not get her writing because she writes about the same theme: a girl from a rural Canadian town growing up to discover her sexuality, find her place in the socitey, exploring love and hatred and at times rebelling from the n
There couldn´t be a better book if you talk about short stories than this!
This is the best of the stories of the best short story writer now alive!
ALICE MUNRO!
When would she win the NOBEL PRIZE?
I should go on that she is severely understated!
Yet, one would feel cheated how a writer with such ordinary day to day life events could weave such miraculous tales that would leave you haunted!
And what is more marvelous with Munro is her resistance to take a writer´s ego yet capable of calmly but intensely engaging her subject!
the best SHORT STORY writer!
I love this book.Munro is a genius.
The stories are beautifully written and constantly shift in unexpected directions.
She does fascinating things with time and the narrators' voices but you barely notice any of the technical work because the stories are so engrossing.
The stories span 30 years of Munro's career but there are some common links between them.
They all take place in the Canadian countryside and all of the characters have secrets, some of which unravel throughout a story and others which we never fully understand.
I especially enjoyed Friend of My Youth, The Albanian Virgin and Wilderness Station.This collection is quiet and haunting and lovely!
I didn't really want to like this.
The author focuses on darkness, adultery, dirty minds and pettiness.
In some senses, the author revels in the Schadenfreude of looking at a car wreck, where her characters make poor decisions 'because they have to for themselves' and then we see their broken lives moving forward.
All that said, the problem I had with my inclination to dislike Munro is that she is a darn good writer, and her characters have life and realism in them.
The stories weave together nicely, and the city has a history and a presence like Marquez' Macondo, although very, very different.
Alice Munro is my favorite favorite favorite, and this book contains some of her very best stories.
"Differently" starts out like this: “Georgia once took a creative writing class, and what the instructor told her was: Too many things.
Think, he told her.
Think.
Eventually she wrote a story that was about her grandfather killing chickens, and the instructor seemed to be pleased with it.
She made a long list of all the things that had been left out and handed it in as an appendix to the story.”This is kind of all you need to know about Alice Munro.
Read her story "Walker Brothers Cowboy" in Literature and Its Writers: An Introduction to Fiction, Poetry, and Drama and really liked it. Then I saw a great review by spenkevich that pushed me to get a copy. So far I have enjoyed the stories I read here as well.
