https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159177.Love_and_War
I struggled with this, it took me years to finally read this. I remember quite enjoying North and South, but I found this to just...drone on and on. Yes, there were good parts, and I loved some of the characters, but...I don't know...I guess I don't really have much to say about this one. I'm sure I'll read Heaven and Hell at some point down the road, but it wont be any time soon.come find me:www.facebook.com/ReadsAshIG: ash.reads Twitter: @ReadsAsh
Triumphant in victory, sorrowful in defeat, and cunning in treachery, the story moves through the five years of battle to tell a story of the Civil War not yet told, the complete tale from battlefield to political backroom, to household living room.
While history texts choose to focus on Lincoln, Davis, Lee, and Grant, the story looks at how citizens reacted to events around them and how their lives changed dramatically.Jakes aptly names this second book, for it is through both LOVE and WAR that the entire story is told.
Love of country, status, history, and political beliefs fuelled the war on both sides.
3.5*
I thought this was a great book, very enjoyable, easy to read historical fiction.
This story is a perfect demonstration of what I love about historical fiction.
In this series I loved learning little historical/cultural tidbits.
Jakes gives you a perfect blend of both in this book.
There are heroes and villains on both sides.Jakes's characters are what makes this such a great story.
The bad guys (and girls) are REALLY loathsome, the type you love to hate.Yes, the book definitely got a little soap opera-ish.
Great book--I definitely recommend it.
I got a bit more than halfway through and realized that it's not nearly as good as I remembered.
Those screenwriters did a tremendous job of taking this book and forming an actual plot that moves at a good clip with everything tied in.
Jakes tried to do too much in this book IMO, and there were many many scenes where I wondered what the point was.
It had the loose feeling of vignettes, and I no more got into a scene with one character when I was bounced off to see what another character was up to.
Perhaps my biggest complaint with John Jakes' North and South book series is the overwhelming number of characters that inhabit his novels.
I found myself laboring to read this 2nd book in this classic American Civil War trilogy series.
In those moments, it appeared Jakes realized he had too many characters' stories to tell and wrap-up and "only" 1000+ pages in which to tell them.
What has frustrated me to this point in the books series is that there is no one or even two central character(s) to ground the story as each seems to share the stage equally.
Love and War is an "OK" read, but, unfortunately for me, not much more.
I've given up on the book around page 300, which was already an achievement, in my opinion.The first book was quite interesting, it presented us to the characters, introduced us to the Civil War, and I was curious as I know little about it, but the way the author does it on this book was a turn off, so to speak.
George Hazard for example, seems to spend the book pacing around thinking and thinking over again but doing little about what worried him.You seem to read and read and nothing happens.
With half our characters fighting for the 'South' and half for the 'North', the book ends up swinging back and forth across the frontline as each one fights his.
or her, battles in their own way.Some of the chapters were a bit slow in this volume - some of the political shenanigans made tedious reading, but in the main there wasn't much to dislike about this book.
There are some sad moments too, and some pretty horrific ones, as the author doesn't hold a lot back when describing the scenes of battles and their aftermath.So despite taking me ages to read, I'm looking forward to reading the next volume to see how the Hazards and the Mains face the new America.
Book #2 of the North and south Trilogy: North and South; Love and War; and Heaven and Hell"From America's master storyteller and writer of historical fiction comes the continuing saga of two families - Hazards and the Mains.
Some would experience the horrors of war on the front lines on some of the bloodiest battlefields of the Civil War...Some would give their lives for their beliefs...But all would be caught in the triumph and tragedy of a conflict that destroyed a country's innocence - and forged a nation."Wonderful...a must read...one you CAN put down, because of the awful pain...but anxious to pick up again and continue with the families in their myriad of tests.

Description: The Hazards and the Mains -- the first fatal shot fired at Fort Sumter divided them irrevocably with loyalties more powerful than family ties.
The mini series.07 - Love and War - (June 1861 - July 21, 1861)08 - Love and War - (July 1861 - summer 1862)09 - Love and War - (September 17, 1862 - spring 1864)10 - Love and War - (May 1864 - late autumn 1864)11 - Love and War - (December 1864 - February 1865)12 - Love and War - (March 1865 - April 1865)
From the first Union rout in Virginia to the last tragic moments of surrender, here is a gigantic five-year panorama of the Civil War!
Hostilities divide the Hazards and the Mains, testing them with loyalties more powerful than family ties.
While soldiers from both families clash on the battlefields of Bull Run, Fredericksburg and Antietam, in intrigue-ridden Washington and Richmond, strong-willed men and beautiful women defend their principles with their lives ...
a graphic, fast-paced amalgam of good, evil, love, lust, war, violence, and Americana." -- The Washington Post Book World[return][return]-From John Jakes' website: http://www.johnjakes.com/northandsout...
http://misfitandmom.wordpress.com/201...
this was a difficult book for me to get into because it had so many characters and so many different situations. But I persisted and finally got it to make sense.It presented a different perspective on the war than what we learned in school--it was told from a more confederacy view. But , in general I enjoyed it
Through their friendship, a bond is formed between their two families that must withstand the strain of the events of the Civil War. There are a LOT of characters in this series.
I love sweeping, epic stories with many characters and subplots, but I can see how that would not be everyone's cup of tea.
And this book is over 1,000 pages long!
The main characters - the ones we grew to know and love in the first book - become secondary to the historical backdrop.
The second half of this book though...had me shook.
It makes for a great story.
I do love the descriptions and the history, but it felt like the point was to get the history out, rather than to tell the story of the characters within that history.
This novel also switched to points of views of secondary characters that I did not care about.
Billy and Charles survive four years of the war but Orry joins and dies almost immediately...maybe this is some statement about fate, or luck, or what have you.
Just like in the first novel, I think he did an excellent job portraying different points of views and the political atmosphere surrounding the war.
Nothing spectacular or life-changing, but a decent read.
I did enjoy Love and War a bit more than North and South.
Love and War starts off in the late spring/early summer of 1861, the romantic period leading up to the terrifying and terrorizing Civil War that gripped the nation for nearly 4 years.
Not to completely give away spoilers, but seeing Charles Main and Billy Hazard grow into true men as they were shaped by war and romance was one of the greatest things to follow.
For those that have read North and South and are not sure whether to continue, I would recommend that you continue the series by reading Love and War.
Not as much of a bodice ripper as the first one, mainly because the men were out fighting the war while the women dealt with strain back at home.
-- it moves quickly through the four years of the war.
It was strange to reread it after so many years and realize that I remembered nothing from the story.
Through the various characters, you see hope and confidence in 1861; by the end, the men are ground down and scarred by the years of fighting.
If you only ever read ten books in your life, this should be one of them.
What sets this masterpiece apart from other literature about this event is that we follow not the generals and presidents but the "common" (albeit quite rich) people which had little to no say in how the war was done and could only hang on and hope for the best.
I find it hard to do this book justice in a review.
It will touch you deeply, leave you gutted and wretched yet hopeful.
A book that truly makes you feel and think.
Overall, I liked the story and plot line but after awhile it seemed too focused on people being vindictive against others. There are at least 6 people holding grudges so grievous that they want to murder. In one story it just seemed like too much. There is also the love making scenes which could have been done much more tastefully. Let’s just say there are parts that I was glad that I was alone while listening or glad to be listening with my earbuds. To me, it took away from the book and was unnecessary.
I love the North & South trilogy and this book does not disappoint. I absolutely love how Jakes maintains historical accuracy while weaving the stories of his fictional characters into the history. He doesn't just do this with the major historical events, but with smaller details that we don't normally think of when we think of history. Jakes makes the era come alive. While I also loved the TV miniseries for what it was (Patrick Swayze, after all), the books are better. It is a very long book, but it's worth the time spent reading it.
This book spans the American Civil War. It is gruesome, compelling and thought provoking.The story covers the private lives entwined with the bureaucracy of war and politics. Whilst a long book it will keep you reading to the end. 2 June 2014I have just re-read this book and I do not know this time around if I loved it as much as the 1st. The war scenes just dragged on forever and certainly 2 thirds of the book covers the war and makes the book longer than it possibly should have been. I am looking forward to the next installment.
+Anyone who loves to read will be pained by the scenes in N&S in which young blacks were prevented to learn how to read.  +Jakes remains sensitive to both sides of the conflict+I learned much about what life was like during the war-not every story arch is equal-at 1000 pages, it tests one's stamina-I'm not as excited for book three as I was coming into this one.  Jakes lost a little momentum
My 3 star rating may be unfairly low, but I read this back to back with North and South, and I think I OD'd on it.
I absolutely adored this trilogy, and this book is my favorite.
I just keep picturing a young Patrick Swayze as Orry Main. Sigh. 4 stars for nostalgia.
And I get that it's set during a time where pretty much everyone was racist, and to their credit, several of the characters get much better about it as the series goes on.
But it's still awkward.However, although I very much enjoy mentioning things I didn't like about this book (I was stuck with it for 1000+ pages, I think I've earned that much!) I'll certainly give it this: Love and War is very good at being what it is -- a big historical fiction novel set in the Civil War era.
Highlighting the exploits of multiple characters spanning the length of the American Civil War from the conflict at Fort Sumter in 1861 to the surrender of the CSA in 1865, Jakes works careful historical accuracy in with the personal dramas of the members of the Hazard and Main clans.
That said, this style doesn't make the emotional punches that go along with any wartime storytelling any less painful and the final quarter of the book comes heavily armed.As a work of historical fiction, Jakes spins the day-to-day minutiae of life during the 1860's masterfully, weaving authentic anecdotes from the time period in with the sometimes fantastic, sometimes depressing exploits of his characters.
This is the continuation of the story of the Hazard and Main families.
The two mail characters are Orry Main (the south) and George Hazard (the north).
The country is now at war--the north wants to end slavery and the south wants no change at all.
If you know anything at all about the Civil War, this story even though some of it is fiction will open your eyes to some of the things that did happen.
John Jakes does his homework to provide the reality of war from documents and papers written on the subject.
The second part of the trilogy by John Jakes.
This was a more detailed treatise on the civil war, the attention to detail was impressive and the horrors of war depicted the fortunes of the Hazards and the Mains which are so entwined yet so different being on opposite sides of the war.
The author looked at the war through many angles using all the many characters and the intermingling between history and fiction was very well balanced.
This book took me a long time to read as compared to North and South which really surprised me as this rarely happens however I enjoyed the book and would recommend it.
