https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6665330-the-short-novels-of-john-steinbeck
What can I say? It's Steinbeck, and he is amazing.
This summer I chose a collection of Steinbeck's short novels, and although I had read all but "Cannery Row" and "The Moon Is Down" before, I hadn't read "The Pearl" or "The Red Pony" in about 15 years.
I've really enjoyed returning to these classics after so many years, and I found like that I liked "The Pearl" a lot more than I remembered it and I liked "The Red Pony" a lot less.
At first glance, "Cannery Row" seemed like a latter-day version of "Tortilla Flat," but it idealized poverty less and provided a more balanced perspective of the Monterey, CA classes.
My favorite novels were The Red Pony and The Moon Is Down. These didn't blow me away like East of Eden. I listened to all on audiobook, which was quite enjoyable. Perhaps I'll get more out of these stories when I reread them.
Steinbeck writes with beautiful and physical descriptions that for me, painted a detailed picture of every setting along the journey.George and Lennie are a mismatched pair of migrant farm workers.
Lennie, in this dream farm, takes care of the rabbits, but from experience I know Lennie would only kill them in the end.
The love and kindness George shows for Lennie even happens in the end.
George does what he thinks is the most honorable thing to do for Lennie and again protect him.Absolutely one of the saddest stories I have read.
I read The Red Pony today.
It is such a sad, coming of age story.
Life lessons come up constantly in this book.
I particularly enjoy the setting of the book on a ranch in California.
It paints a clear picture of farm life.
I gain an appreciation for the harshness of the land and hard work.
The boy, Jody, learns how to be a man in this rudimentary environment.
Although his father models a man with little emotion, the boy goes through a myriad of emotions.
I found myself crying at certain points because of the intensity in which Steinbeck wrote his books.
The character, a farm-hand, in a violent but powerful scene is able to come through.
And Steinbeck does a great job of setting the importance of the scene to all the characters involved.I really enjoy the era that Steinbeck rights in.
The book is full of well developed characters like this.
Although a quick read he does a good job of capturing the essence of a character in only few passages.Steinbeck also does a great job, I think, of capturing the duality of human nature.
A good example of this is the father of the main character.
Excellent stuff
I can see why John Steinbeck is a celebrated author. He catches human emotion and pain, in a raw, honest light.
Steinbeck’s descriptions of his settings and of nature are always so on point even if he doesn’t always spend a lot of time dwelling on them.Characters:Now I know a lot of the significant meaning in this book centers around the horses.
I feel like one thing Steinbeck always explores really well are the people who are outsiders and rejected by other parts of society.
If you are new to Steinbeck I recommend East of Eden, The Grapes of Wrath or Of Mice and Men as starting places.
What can I say. Steinbeck is "THE MAN"! 👍🏻
As he always does, Steinbeck implies important short lessons about life in his story about the struggling between the rich and the poor.The Pearl Review (8/30/12)Gave 4 starsThe novella is widely entertaining with great plot and characters, still, I was just really hoping that the infant, Coyotito, could have gained something.
I was not hoping for Kino and Juana to become rich after they found the pearl (that would go against Steinbeck's message), but I was disappointed when Coyotito was killed off like that!
The same goes for good books.
What I mean is that instead of reading this within the time frame that I did, I should have read a different book in between each of the shorter stories.
I think it would have given me time to digest each individual novel on its own before delving into another classic tale.Regardless, this is a great collection of stories that I absolutely loved.
I think I'll read a couple other books for now…and then go back to reading another Steinbeck novel in the near future.
I could read this tale again and again.Tortilla Flat: This was my least favourite of the stories.
I wasn't particularly enamoured by any of the characters.The Red Pony: Great writing but it just ends suddenly.
The 4 chapters are almost like 4 different tales of Jody and his family, with the pony only featuring in the 1st chapter.
I liked Jody and would happily have read an entire book about him and his life.The moon is Down: For a war tale, I was surprised by how much i enjoyed this!
A great collection that includes many of the best stories that Steinbeck ever wrote. Unforgettable characters, prose of infinite beauty, and some of the best storytelling of the 20th century. His love for the least among us is heartfelt and genuine. You can feel it in every phrase and can't help but be inspired. A literary legacy that transcends time. I have so much more appreciation of his work reading it again later in life and what he has to say fits so perfectly well in today's world.
I think that Mack and the boys know everything that has ever happened in the world and possibly everything that will happen.
I think they survive in this particular world better than other people.
All of our so-called successful men are sick men, with bad stomachs, and bad souls, but Mack and the boys are healthy and curiously clean.""It has always seemed strange to me.
The things we admire in men, kindness and generosity, openness, honesty, understanding and feeling are the concomitants of failure in our system.
And while men admire the quality of the first they love the produce of the second."
I liked "Of Mice and Men" and "Cannery Row". I've read both of them before. I don't think I've read the other ones before. I also liked "The Red Pony". I think "Tortilla Flat" and "Cannery Row" focus too much on drinking, but I guess that's kind of the nature of how many of Steinbeck's characters. I thought "The Pearl" started off good but ended up being very dark. There is a certain depressing style to the way Steinbeck writes. Of course my all time favorite is "Grapes of Wrath". I love the book and the movie.
to refresh my knowledge of the human being..the choice of good or bad.. the results of these choices..and the struggle of doing good and avoiding the bad...and learning..
A splendid collection of stories, however I especially enjoyed the Red Pony.
Tortilla Flat - ☆☆☆The Red Pony - ☆☆☆☆Of Mice and Men - ☆☆☆☆☆The Moon is Down - ☆☆Cannery Row - ☆☆☆☆The Pearl - ☆☆☆☆☆
We need to respect personal freedoms, but how do we support people with low IQs, learning deficiencies, and the whole spectrum of mental and social disorders out of legal trouble, while allowing them to live life out of an institution?
The invaders expected to be seen as heroes, bringing these people into the modern and moral way to the victors.
Note that Danny and the boys in Cannery row are the same as from Tortilla FlatThe Pearl: Steinbeck returns to struggling hispanic laborers in this work.
Returning to Steinbeck's reoccurring theme, the poor can be happy and fulfilled because they accept their lot in life.
asdsad
My interest in virtually all things related to the World War II era fed my original fascination with this work, but on finishing it the first time, I came to see its story in the larger context of the relationships that occur between people who find themselves in untenable circumstances.Although I probably do the author some disservice by doing so, I admit that I tend to think of Tortilla Flat and Cannery Row as being somehow related, when in fact they are quite distinct.
The characters in  Tortilla Flat  impressed me as comic strip figures – each had a few characteristics that distinguished them from the other characters, but none achieved more than a two-dimensional presence for me. Danny was the least well defined – his melancholy and death in the final chapters seemed like the end of a character arc which never had a beginning or middle. Though the characters are introduced as joining the Army at the US entry into WWI, they seem to stand outside history and t
It struck me that in Tortilla Flat the purveyor of wine, Torrelli, was purely a figure of scorn, to be taken advantage of in any way possible, very distinct from the treatment of Lee Chong in Cannery Row. This is part of the strong sense of the “in group” and “out group” aspects of the novel; the paisanos want to take the Pirate’s hoard of quarters until he is perceived as a member of the “in group”, at which point protection his property becomes the group’s responsibility.
Tortilla Flat (I would rate it as a 4/5 stars.)This short novel gripped my heart on a daily basis.
It might not always be the most intriguing stories day to day, but I never felt moments of not wanting to know what was going on with each character.
I think The Pearl teaches that no matter how much control we truly believe that we have, we are fallen and will succumb selfishly to the unknown that money can cause.The story depicts just how deep this spiral of wealth (or possible wealth) can bring you.
The pearl mostly had about the pearl of coarse, oysters, and Kino&JuanaThe Pearl represented the earth's riches, it is beautiful on the outside and everything seems like it is going well, but if you look deeper you can really tell that everything is not okay.
Kino, was a reflection on human society, and there are people in the society who see the big picture (Juana Represents that) but few ever take time to listen to them.
Kino, represents us as humans.
Kino is the perfect example of the average human and that is why I said he was a symbolism.
Prior to reading this collection, I considered myself a fan of John Steinbeck.
The first thing that came to mind upon finishing this is that John Steinbeck has officially made it into my sacred realm of Favorite Authors.
I can't even really say which novellas were my favorite because I enjoyed them all.
What took me so long to read this collection was not the size of the book, but rather the fact that between each novella, I'd have to stop and pause for a few days just to sit and think and stew over what I had finished.
Had the man looked through another peephole he might have said, 'saints and angels and martyrs and holy men,' and he would have meant the same thing."Quotable lines, and there are so many, do not make a great book, but this book has additionally characters born of Steinbeck’s experience of this locale, that are painted so perfectly they do indeed stink of the poetic in a dream like quality of light.All of these works are very good.
I read most of these works some 15-20 years ago, when the stories and the characters and the lessons where oddly entertaining and cautiously educational to a small town teen trying to make sense of the wide world all around.
Two decades later, the stories are even more powerful and relevant while I watch my own children come to terms with a tumultuous, seemingly out of control world.As a reader who identifies Steinbeck as his favorite writer, this collection is a rare and beautiful gift.
Surely, no writer could read Chapter 14 of Cannery Row without a quickening pulse or perhaps a few hidden tears.
Tortilla Flat: *** - Since my intro to Steinbeck was The Grapes of Wrath, I was really relieved that this first story in the collection was not emotionally grueling, but was light and amusing.
While Steinbeck does laugh at and kind of make fun of his characters here, I also have the impression that he cares for them a great deal.
These people won.
These conquered people won.
Steinbeck captures their courage, strength and spirit beautifully.Cannery Row: **** - See above paragraph for Tortilla Flat, and then also pick my jaw up off the floor, if you'd be so kind, thanks to the lyric poetry of the imagery here.
'Cannery Row' (5 out of 5 stars) is the pearl in this collection, brilliant in every way.
'Tortilla Flat' (4 stars) feels like a bizarro early draft of 'Cannery Row' but is quite enjoyable in its own right.
I originally read the parable that is 'The Pearl' (3 stars) in high school; it comes off as more devastating now, after becoming a parent.
The characters in 'The Red Pony' (3 stars) are richly defined and the imagery is lush, but as a whole it ultimately feels uneven.
I could not get into 'The Moon is Down' (2 stars).
