https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/647669.Arrow_to_the_Sun
I love the artwork here.
The artwork is stunning.
The sun sends his essence to Earth to warm the people there and a mother has a baby from that.
The other children make fun of him for not having a father.
He seeks out his father.
The interesting thing to me is that the father requires that the son prove he is his son by going through these tests.
They are trials to prove he is worthy to be a god.
He goes back to Earth bringing many gifts with him to the people.I think this is an excellent book and worthy of the Caldecott Medal.
And even though these same illustrations are actually and supposedly considered controversial and inappropriate by some, I personally really had and have no issues whatsoever with the fact that Kachina figures are used by Gerald Mcdermott (since Arrow to the Sun is basically about a supernatural being who becomes a boy and is sent to earth, definitely shadows of Jesus Christ here, it therefore and in my opinion kind of does make a bit of common sense to use supernaturally representative Kachina figures as the accompanying pictorial images).
It may have won the Caldecott, but even award-winning books can (and should) be set aside.Errors in it are several.One, what pueblo is it about?
Three, the protagonist is mocked and chased away by other boys in the pueblo who say to him “Where is your father?” and “You have no father.” That conflict is the impetus for the boy’s journey to the sun.
However, the conflict is one that does not reflect Pueblo family structure and values.
Children in Pueblo communities are born into large extended families.
The stain of illegitimacy is European, not Puebloan.For more background on the book, visit my site, American Indians in Children's Literature.http://americanindiansinchildrenslite...
Beautiful retelling of this important legend.
Yet, I also found myself wondering at the authenticity and had a hard time reconciling the imagery with my own (albeit limited) knowledge of the Pueblo people.I decided to do a bit of research and discovered this excellent article from The Horn Book: http://www.hbook.com/2013/09/choosing...It's actually "This is the fifth of a continuing series of articles celebrating the history of the Caldecott Medal, which marks its seventy-fifth anniversary this year.
Gerald McDermott makes the story dramatic and simple at the same time as the writing is often shown on one side of the page and the other side of the page contains mainly images and many children who are adopted can easily relate to the boy as he tries to find his real father and many children can sympathize with the boy as some children might feel like they have to find their real parents to find out about their real heritage, so this story is similar to an adoption story for children who were often adopted and they want to learn more about their real parents.
The book relates how the Lord of the Sun sent his spirit to the people of earth.
I cannot help but compare this Pueblo Indian tale with the story of Christ.The Lord of the Sun sends a “spark of life” to earth, where it enters the house of a maiden, who then has a baby.
After enduring several trials the father tells the son, “you must return to earth … and bring my spirit to the world of men.” So he returns to earth, and the people celebrate with the “dance of life.”
This is based on a Native American legend, I guess. It is about the sun impregnating a woman. (Sound familar, anyone?) The son of the sun later becomes an arrow and goes back to his father, the sun. (Gosh, the parallels are striking.)However.........According to this site: http://americanindiansinchildrenslite... there are some inherent problems with this book.
The story doesn't wow me. However, I do love the illustrations. I grew up in AZ and my grandmother loved Southwestern art and decorations. She had tan furniture, with wall hangings in orange, red and yellow. She liked pottery and also had a stained glass front door that portrayed a sunset over the desert. So while the colors are not colors I would wear or decorate with, the combination of colors brings back warm, happy childhood memories and evoke feelings of the Arizona sunset and desert.
The art in this one is stronger than in Raven, as is the story. I did notice some similarities in both stories, but since they are folk tales, I don’t think the author necessarily recycled his own story. I just think that many folk tales are similar. My favorite page in the entire book is the two-page spread where the boy, as the arrow, is shot into the sun. I love all the geometric patterns and the brightness of the colors.
The artwork of this folktale is so reminiscent of Native American beadwork that I was fascinated and drawn in. Sadly the text was lacking so much that I never had a clear understanding how the boy survived the kivas and honestly failed to see the true point of the story. I feel like this could have been really good, but only give it three stars, and that entirely on account of the artwork.
And as you can imagine, there are a bounty of sources written by First Peoples which explore the life of the Pueblo.However....I need to admit that I loved this book as a child.
But should you choose to share this book with them, - and I get it, I love it too – I would appeal to your sense of honor and ask you to read this story only when you child/ren are old enough to have an age-appropriate discussion about cultural appropriation.
So thank you for hearing me out and if your child reads this book, I hope this leads you to seek the real history behind it and to find other, culturally accurate picture books from First People.4 stars for story + discussion.
1. Book Summary in your own wordsPueblo Indian tale about a boy who wants to meet his father, the Sun. He has to succeed at several tests to prove who he is. Then he is sent back to Earth to teach man of the Sun’s spirit.2. Grade level, interest level, lexileK-33. Appropriate classroom use (subject area)Native American4. Individual students who might benefit from readingStudents who love hero-quests. Students who only have 1 parent.5. Small group use (literature circles)In groups, students will
1.	Book Summary in your own wordsPueblo Indian tale about a boy who wants to meet his father, the Sun. He has to succeed at several tests to prove who he is.
Appropriate classroom use (subject area)Native American4.
Individual students who might benefit from readingStudents who love hero-quests.
Small group use (literature circles)In groups, students will work through some challenges like the boy did.6.
Whole class use (read aloud)As a class, we will learn about Native Americans, the different types and tribes.7.
Related books in genre/subject or content areaAnansi the Spider: A Tale from the Ashanti by Gerald McDermott8.
The illustration style is gorgeous- it's a pity that it was marketed as a Pueblo tale when it isn't.
There isn't an unanimous Pueblo opinion on the book though; some regions find it highly offensive and some don't take issue with it.
It would have been better if it would have just been presented as a fantasy/folktale without targeting any particular culture as it doesn't really resemble the one it claims.
I would still recommend it for people interested in art in children's books, but, otherwise definitely don't recommend it as a choice for presenting native cultures.
This is an intersting tale that combines traditional Pueblo geometric illustrations with an interesting folktale. It's a short tale and easy to read aloud. The illustations are very angular and primarily of earth tones which are mostly commonly associated with pottery and other Southwestern art. We enjoyed reading this book together.This book was selected as one of the books for the October 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I love it because it's a short story, not difficult to read, and the illustrations are so cool that they look like you're playing a video game.
When I'm reading it, I feel like I'm reading the words on a video game screen.
The story is an ancient one of the Indians, and it is fascinating to me.
I love how the boy perseveres even though people are mean to him and even though it's hard to get to the sun.
It teaches me how to persevere.
(Note from Hudson's mom: I had no idea the child knew the word "persevere.")
**** Caldecott Medal (1975) ****Bold in graphic style and rich in vibrant colors, this is a splendid tale of a boy on a mythical journey in search of his father. The art was produced in gouache and ink, and presents a memorable introduction to young readers of the southwestern Native American traditions and myths. Top notch and wholly deserving of the Caldecott Medal.
This book is about the boy who has no father, and the boy was searching for his father. I like the book because it speaks about the child who does not have a father, and it is important to have a father.I give this book 3 stars.
The story of a boy's quest to please his father, the sun god, from the Pueblo people; I love the bold colors and graphic style of this McDermott book. There's a wordless section in which we need to interpret various symbols to understand the action. This has a modern feel to it.
A multicultural book about the Pueblo Indians.
This is a visually beautiful book. For more:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/11/cal...
Fabulous illustrations. I want to make each of them into a quilt.
I am not saying this is a Jesus bookbut what I am saying isI see parallels to the Jesus story everywhere I look.
I really enjoyed this Indian folk tale. Nice to see stories like this being shared at last.
Caldecott Medal 1975 - I read this one years ago, but in looking at it again, the illustrations really were quite spectacular for it's time.
I love anything to do with Native American culture; it's my favorite, so I ended up getting it knowing it wasn't going to be the best read.
To be so talented...It seemed to be a creation story, with the Lord of the Sun sending a spark of life to earth, so I was surprised when there was already a pueblo on earth with a woman inside.
Because of this, not having a dad, the other boys wouldn't accept him or let him play with them.
Just that they live in pueblos, believe in the Lord of the Sun, and have a Dance of Life.
After reading "Arrow to the Sun: A Pueblo Indian Tale" I was impressed especially with the illustrations of Pueblo's'Indian art.
The art of the author and illustrator Gerald McDermott used in this book was amazing.
This story is about a young boy who sets out to find his biological father.
Now the boy is an arrow he must pass through the four chambers of ceremony- the Kiva of Lions, the Kiva of Serpents , Kiva of Bees, and the Kiva of Lightning.
After passing through the four chambers the boy will find his father.
McDermott bases this story from a Pueblo Native American children's folktale, and stays extremely true to the original story.
As the Sun-Lord fires an arrow to a maiden in the Pueblo tribe, she gives birth to a son, who is ridiculed for not having a father around.
He sets out to find his father, and finds him as the Sun-Lord after a wise sage turns him into an arrow and fires him into the sun.
I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for Native American folktales.
On earth, the boy is mocked for not having a father so he sets out on a quest to find him.
When it is proven, the boy is filled with the power of the sun and returns to the earth to bring his father's spirit to the people.Themes: The themes of this book are religion and acceptance.
Personal Response: Of course, this book really reminds me of the sunday school stories I always heard about Jesus being the son of God and bringing the spirit to the people.
I think it's fascinating that many religions of the world can have similar fables and the same messages.
I can vividly recall reading this book in my elementary school's library way back in the mid-1970s, and the story has stuck with me ever since.
I reread it this week and found that it still had that magical numinosity about it that I remembered from long ago and not-so-far-away.
:)The gorgeous illustrations and simple prose combine to evoke a mythmaking atmosphere set in the ancient Pueblo civilization of the American Southwest.
I would very much like to read the original Pueblo myth that inspired this story!Highly recommended for readers who love mythology, fantasy, and amazing artwork, too!
