https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16299.And_Then_There_Were_None
يجب أن أعترف أن ضيق أفقي هو مامنعني من دخول عالم أجاثا كريستيفمنذ صغري لم تبهرني أغلفة قصصها المترجمة للعربيةكما أن معرفة والدي لافلامها وقراءة والدتي لروايتها منذ الصغر جعلني أشعر أن الغموض بهذه القصص "موضة قديمة" وألغازها ستكون مكشوفة ليناهيك عن مقولة "لابد أن الخادم هو من فعلها كقصص أجاثا كريستي" جعلتني متشككا أن الحل دائما نمطيافلماذا أقرأ لها؟..لم يعد هناك شئ   عشر عساكر صغار ذهبوا الي العشاءاختنق احدهم ..ثم تبقي تسعة  الي ان جائتني دعوة..دعوه لقراءة احد كتب اجاثا كريستي لانها في قائمة أعلي
الي ان جائتني دعوة..دعوه لقراءة احد كتب اجاثا كريستي لانها في قائمة أعلي الكتب مبيعا في العالم متفوقة علي الالاف كتب التشويق والجريمة!!!
غامض دعواتهم للقصر شيئا ما..الا انهم قرروا الذهاب ايا كانمتباينين..غير متناسقين عمريا ولا فكريا ولا كمستوي اجتماعي او مادي او حتي وطيفي...مشتركين في غموض ماضيهم..غموض دوافعهمليذهبوا ويقابلوا زوجين من الخدم غامضين ايضا..لايعرفون شيئا عن سيدهم ولم يروه حتي الان..بل ويكادوا يجزمون بينهم وبين انفسهم بغرابة ذلك الحشد الغريب الغير متناسق,الغير متجانس بين الشخصيات امامهميبدأ العشاء علي مائده يزينها تماثيل صغيرة لعشر عساكر..وتبدأ الاحداث الغريبة في البدء منذ اوائل الفصول
ولا يستيقظ أبدابالضبط كأغنية "عشر عساكر صغار"..فهل سيتناقص عدد المدعوين العشر كالعساكر في الأغنية؟تتوالي الاحداث..في ترقب..من صاحب الدعوة؟ ماحقيقة الاتهامات؟كان هناك 10 تماثيل عساكر في وسط مائدة الطعام..لماذا صار فقط تسع بعد وفاه احدهم؟
When it came to the US version in the 40's someone decided that 'Ten Little Niggers' is not the most marketable title for a book so they changed it to 'Ten Little Indians' (as it was still ok to call Native Americans Indians then).Only years after someone decided that neither 'Niggers', nor 'Indians' is a fortunate choice of words for the title so it was changed to 'And Then There Were None' - the last line of the nursery rhyme which in this new version was called 'Ten Boy Soldiers'.This is the version that I read and I must say I am glad.
I think I would be rather uncomfortable reading something called 'The Little Niggers', which takes place on 'Nigger Island' (how did Christie want to pull this off?
Who is either conceited enough or deranged enough to assume that he has the right and the moral authority to determine guilt and the extent of punishment just like that?Don't get me wrong - the people accused on the island are undeniably guilty (even though it's not necessarily murder as we think of for some of them - Vera Claythorne is really guilty of neglect, albeit with a desire to kill, and Emily Brent is pretty much guilty of being a judgmental über-righteous heartless prude).
I'm a big lover of Agatha Christie, she has written some fantastic murder mysteries and her stories never get tiring.
But this is the one that just comes out on top every time.It partly, and quite amusingly, reminds me of that old American murder mystery in Sunset Beach.
It's just a very clever novel, full of mystery and suspense and easily quite frightening at times.I like how Agatha Christie doesn't have to write a 500 page novel with a massive back story, her mysteries are very simply put together but always clever and hard to decipher.
5 stars to Agatha Christie's And Then There Were None. This is the book that started my absolute love of the mystery genre. I was addicted and must have read it 3 or 4 times over the course of the year. Between the poem, the deserted island, the plot twist, the count-down, the pure clandestine suspense... it couldn't get any better. Story Ten people receive a mystery letter from someone they don't know that indicates they should come to a remote island. Why would they go????? After arriving, the
This is the book that started my absolute love of the mystery genre.
Ten people receive a mystery letter from someone they don't know that indicates they should come to a remote island.
Pure fun.In a masterful conclusion, the reader understands all the connections, learns why the killer chose them to die and develops a very distinct opinion on who was right and who was wrong in this story.Amazing!
1. Plot - can you get any better than telling the reader that 10 people will die and then guessing the order and the weapon?2.
If you are a mystery fan, you must read this.
This was a really good mystery!{insert long-winded apology with much groveling}Happy, guys?The story goes a bit like this:10 strangers each get invitations from someone they think they know, to stay on an island resort.
Still, it's famous for being a party place, and nobody in the group turns it down.BIG MISTAKE.Almost as soon as everyone is gathered together, a recorded voice booms out through the walls and accuses each of them of being a murderer.
Their mysterious benefactor must be disguised as one of the guests, and is more than likely...the murderer.Dum, dum, duuuuum!The tension ratchets up with each body, and the guests start turning on each other in an attempt to ferret out the killer.
A group of people are all individually invited to an island for a summer holiday in Devon.
None of them 100% sure who their mysterious host is.
Things become even more peculiar when their host isn’t there when they arrive, and doesn’t show themselves at all.
One by one the guests are killed, picked off, leaving the others terrified and paranoid.
It was a fantastic mystery throughout.
As tension becomes hysteria, the guests wonder who will be next, who is responsible for these murders and why?A fantastic read that leaves you guessing until the very end.
“We shall none of us leave this island.”  ******************************So creepy!
This year I have decided to take part in a women's century challenge in the group catching up on classics where the participants read a book written in ten consecutive decades.
Ten individuals who committed murder at one point in their lives have been invited to Soldier Island for a supposed holiday.
The participants were also held in suspense, accusing each other of being the murderer.
I have read many mysteries written by women, including many cases starring female private eyes and police detectives.
A captivating mystery, I am open to reading more of Christie's stand alone cases, and rate this mystery 4 stars.
“When the sea goes down, there will come from the mainland boats and men.
And they will find ten dead bodies and an unsolved problem on Soldier Island.”My first Agatha Christie, and a good one indeed.
And Then There Were None just recently came to my attention.
Maybe it was the new mini-series or the many people suddenly reading this, but I was intrigued immediately.
I can't wait to watch the series!Agatha Christie totally tricked me.
I thought I had figured it out, but I was wrong.
A murder mystery, a mad psychothriller of a book.
Would highly recommend.Find more of my books on Instagram
Extraordinary and gripping novel!I knew that the best way to start reading the literary work by Agatha Christie was choosing her most known book.
It doesn't matter.Anyway, I think that many of the fun of reading this kind of mystery novels is trying to figure out the culprit during the process of reading the book.
Definitely, Agatha Christie is the queen of mystery!Certainly, this novel isn't only a marvellous detective mystery book but also a truly scary horror story.
"Ten literary Goodreads reviewers chatting online;One bot was discovered and then there were Nine.Nine literary Goodreads reviewers on a thread until late;One lost his Wi-Fi signal and then there were Eight.Eight literary Goodreads reviewers groupreading Austen;One only read males and then there were Seven.Seven literary Goodreads reviewers averse to using pics;One blasphemed with GIFs and then there were Six.Six literary Goodreads reviewers booktubing live;One revealed too much and then there
"Ten literary Goodreads reviewers chatting online;One bot was discovered and then there were Nine.Nine literary Goodreads reviewers on a thread until late;One lost his Wi-Fi signal and then there were Eight.Eight literary Goodreads reviewers groupreading Austen;One only read males and then there were Seven.Seven literary Goodreads reviewers averse to using pics;One blasphemed with GIFs and then there were Six.Six literary Goodreads reviewers booktubing live;One revealed too much and then there were Five.Five literary Goodreads reviewers trying out Coelho;One rushed back home and then there were Four.Four literary Goodreads reviewers adored Harper Lee;One sequel led to suicide and then there were Three.Three literary Goodreads reviewers re-reading Pooh;One thought it only for children and then there were Two.Two literary Goodreads reviewers engrossed in Hamsun;One died of hunger and then there was One.One literary Goodreads reviewer left all alone;He deleted his account and then there were None."
Kurgusu mükemmel. İnsan son ana kadar katili kestiremiyor. Olaylar çok çabuk gelişiyor ve kitap bir çırpıda okunuyor. Bence en güzel Agatha Christie romanı ...
One of the ten figurines is soon discovered to be broken, and the nursery rhyme reflects his manner of death ("One choked his little self and then there were nine").So begins an intense tale, as the guests frantically try to protect themselves and figure out which of them is the killer (or is it someone else hiding on the island?) before they are all dead.
For the American edition of the book, it was changed to "Ten Little Indians" and, later, "And Then There Were None" (which is the version I have, but still with the Indian poem and figurines) - better but still not great.
She creates ten characters, all suspected of murder, who are lured to an island.
She has them meet their deaths one by one as nominated in the nursery rhyme "Ten Little Indians" which is displayed in their rooms.
She has each murder occur in a situation where almost all the other island guests might have had opportunity to commit it.
In each of the bedrooms, the "Ten Little Indians" nursery rhyme is posted on a prominent wall.It's a great book and is very scary with loads of suspense.
I love the setting on the island, with no phone or transportation.
And Then There Were None is one of Agatha Christie's most celebrated mystery novels, and purportedly one of the most difficult for her to write. I don't dislike this book. It seems to be a favorite among many, but it's very middle of the road for me as far as Mystery/Thriller books go.  The Good: I enjoy the setup & how this mystery is structured. It's fun & easy to engage with in a "Gee, I sure am glad I'm not in their shoes" kind of way. It's written well with an accurate insight on hu
They're developed & believable as people, but I never felt any type of connection or sympathy which I think can be quite important in a story like this.Sometimes the characters don't matter or can get away with being stereotypical cardboard cutouts, but that tends to shift the over into the torture porn arena & I don't believe for a second that is where Christie's book belongs.Probably the most disappointing part of my experience, I was not impressed with the conclusion of this mystery.
SUCH a superb mystery. Wow.
Σχεδόν όλοι ειναι ένοχοι όμως.Ανάμεσα σε δέκα άτομα που δέχονται πρόσκληση για το νησί του Νέγρου με σκοπό να περάσουν κάποιες μέρες ξεκούρασης ή να συνδυάσουν εργασία και διακοπές,όλοι ειναι εγκληματίες.
Όλοι έχουν θάψει βαθιά μέσα τους τις τύψεις και προσπαθούν να συνεχίσουν τη ζωή τους αφού για την κοινωνία ειναι απαλλαγμένοι απο κάθε κατηγορία.
Ο φονιάς ανάμεσα στους νεκρούς ή και όχι,εφόσον δεν υπάρχει πρόσβαση σε αυτό το νησί απο κανέναν άλλον.
Τι συνέβη; Πως πέθαναν δέκα άτομα με κοινό παρονομαστή τα εγκλήματα που διέπραξαν και έμειναν ατιμώρητοι; Δεν υπάρχει λογική εξήγηση.
Δεν ειναι ο τελευταίος που έζησε για να αποφασίσει μετα τι θα κάνει με τις δικές του ερινύες.
But matters weren't helped when I took a (delightful) genre studies course in graduate school (The Singing Sands, Ashenden, Knight's Gambit, An Unsuitable Job for a Woman, Poe, Doyle....) and we had to read The Murder of Roger Ackroyd, about whom legendary snob Edmund Wilson famously asked: Who Cares?
For my final topic I chose the work of P.D. James (and read all of her books published up til then - through Original Sin - in about a month; dizzying but v fun) and you couldn't miss emblazoned on all her paperbacks at the time, THE NEW QUEEN OF CRIME, SHE USURPS CHRISTIE'S THRONE, CAGEMATCH BETWEEN PHYLLIS AND AGATHA, TWO BITCHES ENTER ONE NOVELIST LEAVES, &c &c you get the picture.
Ten little Indian boys went out to dine; One choked his little self and then there were nine.No wonder this is considered to be the best book of Agatha Christie's ever - it is truly a masterpiece. Nine little Indian boys sat up very late; One overslept himself and then there were eightAnd I am not just saying it- I truly mean it. I didn't just discovered it and am not speaking on a high rush of that fresh new read feeling - this was a re-read for me. And I don't re-read books very often - only t
Ten little Indian boys went out to dine; One choked his little self and then there were nine.​​No wonder this is considered to be the best book of Agatha Christie's ever - it is truly a masterpiece.
Eight little Indian boys travelling in Devon; One said he'd stay there and then there were seven.​If you have read anything of Agatha Christie before and wasn't a big fan - read this.
Or to put the book away...Two little Indian boys sitting in the sun; One got frizzled up and then there was one.And because it is so atmospherically mysterious and creepy, it's a perfect October read!
My friend Amelie and I used this book as half of our corpus when we wrote our 1990 paper,  An Implementable Semantics for Comparative Constructions . We spent several days combing through the text, extracting and categorizing every single occurrence of a comparative construction. So you'll appreciate that I know what I'm talking about when I say it's better than most murder mysteries.
To make a long story short, I loved the book and to this day recalled the clever twist at the end.When one of my book groups chose to read this last month, I didn’t think I would manage to squeeze it in.
I recommend reading the actual book or the true audio book rather than the BBC dramatization, unless you are already familiar with the story.
3.5
For people who have not read them, spoilers kill Agatha Christie books.
A group of very different people ended up on the island.If you are familiar with the Dame of Mystery's writing you would guess there will be a murder.
British people seems to agree with me as they made her a Dame for her contribution to literature.
What is it about movie people insisting on making changes to a classic of mystery?
The final conclusion: if you like mysteries or thrillers (this book successfully combines both) this one is a must read.
You Chose Your Own Adventure!You are a man, you are a woman; you are judge, jury, and executioner. You are surrounded by murderers and assholes. Kill ‘em all! Then kill yourself. Your adventure is over.If you would like to start your life anew, choose http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
4★“So far the murderer has had an easy task, since his victims have been unsuspicious.
Ten people have received personal invitations to holiday on Indian Island as the guests of someone from their past.
It tells what happens to each little Indian until the last one is gone – and then there were none.As each “guest” succumbs to a different fate—well, no, the same fate, murder most foul—the remaining suspects/victims try to figure out how to stay together while staying safe from each other.
It’s a fiendishly clever plot with good reason to suspect everyone.
Ten little soldier boys went out to dine; One choked his little self and then there were Nine.Nine little soldier boys sat up very late; One overslept himself and then there were Eight.Eight little soldier boys traveling in Devon; One said he’d stay there and then there were Seven.Seven little soldier boys chopping up sticks; One chopped himself in halves and then there were Six.Six little soldier boys playing with a hive; A bumble bee stung one and then there were Five.Five little soldier boys
The guests start dying off, one by one, in eerie accordance with the Ten Little Soldier Boys poem that is posted in nearly every room of the estate.And Then There Were None is only my second experience with Agatha Christie, and I wasn’t disappointed.
Thankfully answers were provided right at the very end of the novel, and I was completely blindsided by those answers.I might only have two of her books under my belt, but I already understand why Christie is considered the queen of the mystery genre.
She plays things so close to the chest that it’s nearly impossible to guess anything until she feeds you the information you need.
The way an author crafts a mystery with a surprise yet plausible ending is the best in my book (pun, intended).
This is the first Agatha Christie book I have ever read in my life.I know.
I've scorned myself for years over this glaring omission in my library of loves.I did try.
We get to know the characters from the outwardly image they present to the world.
The dread and fear is palpable throughout the novel.The mystery seems absolutely impossible to solve as you read.
After some of the crazy mysteries I've read over the years, I was all over the place trying to solve it.
A GREAT murder mystery. Even though I knew the story and saw the movie long ago, I Loved every minute of it! Reading the book was so much better. Note: Eating tinned tongue, Ewwwww!
Simplemente brillante.No creo que siga incursionando en este género (más allá del libro de Collins) puesto que rápidamente cambio a otro tipo de literatura, pero reconozco que cuando leo este tipo de genialidades como la que pertrechó Agatha Christie en “Diez Negritos” solo puedo deshacerme en palabras de admiración para una mente tan brillante como la de esta gran escritora.
But I am glad I gave this a chance.This book reminded me of all the slasher movies I enjoy watching because they had the same elements: people isolated in a place with nowhere else to go, someone amongst them being a killer, secrets being revealed.This book is about 10 people who were enticed into coming to an island for different reasons by a “Mr Owen”.
What I liked - I enjoyed the mystery in general, finding out why each of them was chosen, and the secrets they were all hiding.
