https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6289938-fade-out
Kim's media project to expose Morganville was brilliant but I expected her obsession with Shane would lead to an Ada-like attempt on Claire's life, thankfully that didn't happen.
Claire is the only person who understands him, his theories and his mental state why wouldn't he be interested in her romantically speaking?It was inevitable that Michael would be put in the middle of the vampires and the humans or more precisely the Glass House group of friends.
I can understand making Shane and Eve neutral but not Claire.
Mini Review: It’s clear I’m getting a little too old to fully appreciate YA problems – they all just seem so unnecessarily dramatic compared to RL issues I’ve been dealing with.
Even so, Morganville books continue to offer me that light escape I crave between all the heavy adult fantasy novels.
Compared to the other books in the series, nothing truly earth-shattering happened in Fade Out, but I did like the expansion on vampiric history and politics (to a minor degree).
These bite-sized stories always put me in a good mood, and I’m genuinely interested to see where Caine takes it next.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.NikiHawkes.com
Quick review:Cover: It’s okay Rating:  PG-13 Thumbs Up:  4Overall: Another installment.
I didn’t love it or hate it.Characters: Well writtenPlot: It started off promising but fizzled a little for me by the end.Page Turner: Yes Series Cont.?
Yes Recommend:  YesBook Boyfriend: MyrninSUMMARY (50 words or less)Another installment that started off with some good drama but quickly fell in line with previous installments.
It was still good.
I didn’t really like the Ada storyline.
She does a good job of keeping the characters with different voices for the most part.
I don’t like Myrnin’s voice.
But it’s too late to change his voice.
Where's the cliffhanging, death defying, suspense thriller of a read?
Not much a plot, a bit more tidying up the loose ends kind of a read.Ada's jealousy of Claire finally festers into some crazy homicidal killing attempts.
Myrnin's mental stability is still a big issue, he's so unpredictable.
I absolutely love his character, it's what kept me reading.
Claire's relationship with Shane was put through the ringer, with Claire dealing with some jealousy issues.
Talking about issues, Amelie needs some therapy.A quick mindless read that was quite entertaining.
I need to get myself one of those bunny slippers with fangs.
Rachel Caine is simply amazing, and with Fade Out, she’s done it again!So, with Carpe Corpus, the sixth book in the series, we had the end of the six book long story arc.
Knowing how awesome Rachel Caine is, I knew Fade Out would be good, but I had absolutely no idea where she could possibly take the characters of Morganville now.
It annoys me, but I am unable to talk about this connection – which is not all the characters we’ve come to love and hate, who still show up in Fade Out - without spoiling the story, so you’re just going to have to take my word for it.Fade Out has the all the action we except from a Morganville Vampire novel, but most of it doesn’t come along until much later in the book.
3.5 starsThis one was a bit too rushed plot-wise for me to rate it any higher.
It’s awesome, it’s engaging, it’s perfectly casted with four splendid characters, and it’s a series that I want to continue on for quite some time.Fade Out is the seventh installment of the Morganville Vampire series where in this town, humans are the minority and vampires call the shots.
As the story closes, Eve and Shane make a deal that might just cost them more than they are willing to sacrifice.It’s an installment filled with signature series action and a cliff hanger leaving you thirsty for blood...
I meant leaving you thirsty for more… really!
But I will give her credit where credit is due, because I care enough about Michael Glass to keep reading, so well played Ms. Caine.The only good person left in this series is Michael Glass.
He is always their for everyone, vampire and human, and even though his situation sucks he still does the right thing every time.
It also pisses me off that the humans are all still "oh i know this person did x,y,z but they are still human so we can't kill them or let the vamps handle it".
I'd say it's the same thing reversed with the vamps, but it's not.
After all the closure in the previous book in the series, Carpe Corpus, I was curious as to where Caine was going to go in this entry.
At the time, I found myself hooked - because I love the series - but not devouring the book because there just wasn't that much going on.Then things started taking shape and I gobbled up the second half in no time.
lots of little mysteries/Oh-No-What-Is-Going-To-Happen-Now-isms and a couple big ones too.
No straight black and white in this series.Very much enjoyed this entry and can't wait for the next one.
Fade Out, the seventh book in the Morganville Vampires series, is about what's been happening in the city after Carpe Corpus finshed.
Claire is no longer a slave to Bishop, and is going to school and living with her parents while still going over to the Glass House whenever she can to see her friends and boyfriend, Shane.
Eve has been cast in the town production of Streetcar Named Desire with, coincidentally, Shane's ex-girlfriend Kim. Kim turns out to be crazy and making a documentary of Morganville so she can sell it and make big bucks.
The gang has to save the town from Kim and Ada, who has lost it.This is the worst book in the series.
At the end of that one, Claire and Shane were in love, the evil vamps had been defeated, things were going to change in Morganville and all seemed well.
The friends have to track her down, not only to stop her from releasing the tapes, but also to save the town because if word gets out, all of Morganville will be destroyed.
This sounds good and following the clues is interesting, but this plot kind of fizzles, other than leading Shane, Eve and Claire forced into making a life or death deal with some wild vampires.This one definitely isn't my favorite.
Love, love, love this book!!!
I love the world of Morganville that Rachel Caine has created, her books are so well written and this installment didn't let me down.
The are so many amazing characters in this book.
Even the evil ones I enjoy reading about.
Myrinn was a standout again and I couldn't wait to read the parts he was in and try to imagine in his crazy clothes like bunny slippers with fangs (I want a pair!).
I could go on and on about how incredible this book is and this series but I couldn't do it justice.
Amazing!
Read this series!
I like to see Claire actually trying to concentrate on school - I mean for a genius she doesn't seem to care about school too much.
I also like to see Eve doing theatre - it seems to really fit her personality.
I feel like this was a set up book for another big evil that is brewing we got to learn a little more about the characters.
I also love Myrnin like always he is hilarious and the whole Ada thing - it is interesting.
I feel like Myrnin and Ada are going to have some major stories in the books to come in this series.
Fade Out is the seventh book in the Morganville Vampire series. Continuing on where the sixth left off this is a rebuilding time for Morganville. Bishop is no longer around, Amelie is grieving, some new rogue vampires are introduced and an old flame of Shane's shows up in town. Not one of my favorites of the series by any means. I'd say the theme to this book was jealousy, not very intriguing really. The action slowed down quite a bit and what there was seemed a little predictable. Hopefully the story picks back up in the next book.
Bu seriyi gerçekten seviyorum :)) Ne vampir kitaplarındaki o karamsar hava, nede ne idüğü belirsiz, karaktersiz karakterler var :D Bu serinin aksiyomu ve komedisi cidden okumaya değer :))
“I just went to work for a vampire, was scared by a spider, and got knocked down by a tanning bomb.
And that’s just my day, not my week.”Fade Out was kind of a boring.
Like really boring.
Pretty much blazed through this boringness while listening to an audio for a different book.
I didn't really care about the story line or who the villain was.
Or should I say...villains?
Either way I didn't care about any of them.
I just knew I either hated a character or liked them.
This book was just kind of there for me.
I hope the next book is more exciting?
Once again the fate of everything seems to rest on their shoulders as disaster is around every corner.I just knew there was something fishy about the new girl in the picture, Kim. Claire has such a hard time disliking anyone.
However, Claire has never been normal, and she feels the need to save everyone, so it couldn't be just simple jealous to cause her to react so strongly.As if the videos and risk of exposure wasn't enough, Ada the super computer that runs Morganville has gone psychotic and homicidal towards Claire.
Nu spun că ar fi cea mai bună serie despre vampiri scrisă vreodată, că ar fi măcar o serie bună sau printre preferatele mele - spun doar că îmi face nespusă plăcere să o citesc, îmi place universul ei și vreau să aflu ce se întâmplă în continuare, cum se mai leagă lucrurile, cum mai evoluează Claire și cât mai multe scene dintre ea și Shane...Până și pe ea am ajuns să o înțeleg mai bine în volumul ăsta, m-am decis să îi iau pe toți mult mai în serios și rezultatul a fost bun.Vă încurajez să îi dați o încercare, e o serie complexă și plină de acțiune, așa cum îmi place mie.
Of course Claire can't let that happen!My favorite thing about these books are that they're short.
It makes it super easy to get lost in the book and there's always something happening to Claire and Co. However, this is also makes it obvious that any new character must be up to something, as is the case for Kim. Of course I was suspicious of her from the very beginning, but I was shocked to find out what she was really doing in Morganville.This is probably my favorite of the books so far.
I absolutely love Claire and Michael.
I know that they are only friends (not to mention in love with other people right now) however I have wondered, and hoped, from the first book if Claire and Michael would end up hooking up some how.
I understand he's hot and Claire is in love with him but part of me (which seems to be getting bigger and bigger) wishes that she would ditch him.
I can see Eve and Shane getting killed during this series at some point and Claire and Michael falling in love.
This book took a little more time for me to get into than the previous instalments.
As the novel progressed, it became clear that Caine was picking at a thread introduced in the previous book (Ava the AI), and had decided to weave a new story based on that.
I enjoyed the plot, even though it read a little like a B movie, (view spoiler)[with killer giant spiders, a homicidal AI, and a reality TV show about vampires.
(hide spoiler)] Somehow, these strange elements worked well together, and the story was well-written and delightfully entertaining.
This has probably been one of my favorite Morganville vampires books, with the exception of Oliver.
He's always been one of my favorite characters (Okay, maybe not in the first book.) and I don't like the direction he, or Amelie, for that matter, seems to be going in.
Now we have an actual person, and he's kinda likable :) Even if he does keep pet spiders.And damn, does Monica surprise me in this book.
Humans, like it has been for the past six books, it's more of a Morganville v.
she had tapes of all of them doing their stuff in their bedrooms- talk abt invasion of privacyAda was sooo evil, i swear i thaut she actually killed Myrninn wen Claire left him in that tunnel place.
but im glad she didnt coz i love Myrninn, i wud hav to say he is probably my favourite character in the whole series =]i really hope in the next book Michael remembers where his allegiance lies and i hope him and Eve work out their crap, coz they are so cute together.
The age old fallabilities of humans; jealousy and fear of "the other".
The jealousy theme is presented between Claire and Kim, and Myrnin and Ada. Claire showed a more healthy way of dealing with jealousy- Ada not so much.I couldn't help reminisce about sci-fi and fantasy shows that have dealt with this theme of the created mechanical being who "loved" its creator: the feminine robot in the 6th season of Buffy, the Vampire Slayer and Data from Star Trek, The Next Generation.
Now we have Ada. Made me think that jealousy, which is founded on fear of loss, is the opposite of love.

One thing I like about this series is that every book has different story but still evolves on the residents of Morganville.
In this book, I have lost my sanity (in a funny way) because of Mynin.
His bunny slippers with fangs has made me chuckle several times and naming his spider pet, Bob. I think this is the only book I have read a vampire who is bipolar.
I also like how the author has created Ada like a transcendence...a brilliant companion of Mr. Bipolar.
I have really enjoyed this story.
This was an okay story, but it wasn’t one of the best books in this series.The characters in this were alright, although I couldn’t imagine Myrnin wearing fluffy buddy slippers! That was slightly ridiculous.The storyline was okay, but it was a bit boring. The main focus of the story seemed to be Myrnin’s assistant Ada, and some random play that Eve was part of. There didn’t seem to be much about the vampires in this at all.The ending was okay, but I’m really hoping the next book will be better.6.25 out of 10
Eh. This one was just okay for me. I don't think it was nearly as good as this others, which kinda worries me. I felt like the story ended in a good place at the end of Carpe Corpus, and after reading Fade Out, I'm thinking Caine might should have just stopped there.
My goal was to re-read these in order to actually finish the series, but I seem to be petering out even sooner this time around. Uh-oh...Not to mention that this book caused me to have really bizarre dreams last night, that Shane betrayed us (us being all my family and friends in real life) and I was devastated, and Joss Whedon had to act as my therapist by making me talk about my feelings while he drew funny pictures....
Great "one day novel" series. Quick read that's just entertaining and fun. Nothing heavy, predictable outcomes, cute characters ( Myrnin is my favorite ) and a bit of weirdness and good humor thrown in for good measure. Appropriate for all ages and I can't imagine anyone being offended by anything in these books. I will definitely continue this series.
