https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338593.Jungle_Tales_of_Tarzan
Each one is impeccably written, exciting, and way more philosophical than I would've ever expected.When reading the original classic TARZAN novel, I was struck by how much more interesting the story was before Tarzan left the jungle.
Well, with JUNGLE TALES OF TARZAN, I feel as though I finally got my wish.And after not even bothering to finish the utterly terrible RETURN OF TARZAN, I couldn't be more surprised to have my enthusiasm for this series renewed.Speaking of RETURN OF TARZAN, what I most disliked about that book (apart from the laziness with which it was written) was how childish it all seemed.
This is a collection of loosely-connected short stories in the life of Tarzan while he was still growing into young adulthood.
The entirety of the twelve stories actually fit chronologically within chapter 11 of Tarzan of the Apes, after Tarzan avenges the death of his foster-ape mother, Kala.Several themes run throughout this collection of stories.
This year, 2018 marks the centennial of the first Tarzan on film, a silent film made in 1918, starring Elmo Lincoln (and Gordon Griffith as the young Tarzan).
I’m planning on seeing many Tarzan films over the course of this year as well as reading quite a few of the novels that have so far escaped my net.
This was a collection of short stories set when Tarzan was a youth. Overall, it was quite enjoyable. There wasn't a whole lot to them as far as things that are crucial to the mythos, but still a fun read. If you enjoyed the first Tarzan novel, Tarzan of the Apes, you'll probably really like this one as the stories seem closer in tone to the early part of that novel.
I've always been, and always will be a fan of Tarzan. Might be a bit campy and pulp fictionish, but I love it!
আবারো জঙগলে টারজান। দেখা হল ছেলেবেলাকার সাথী টিকার সাথে। এদিকে টগ পছনদ করে টিকাকে। এ নিয়ে বিরোধে জড়ায় টগ ও টারজান।
আবারো জঙ্গলে টারজান। দেখা হল ছেলেবেলাকার সাথী টিকার সাথে। এদিকে টগ পছন্দ করে টিকাকে। এ নিয়ে বিরোধে জড়ায় টগ ও টারজান।
You can tell this book is a product of its time. Very pompous writing and some pretty racist things said about the African tribe he lives near. I took all this with the grain of salt knowing that Burroughs wrote in the time of the Great White Ideal and just had fun reading it. There were times it was just ridiculous.
I found it interesting that in book 6 Burroughs decides to explore how Tarzan's mind works, how he differs from the apes and how he feels about being different--for that matter how the apes feel about him being so different!
Burroughs explores the idea of God in the mind of a primitive.
In other words, "animals" can't contemplate God. Only Man, who has the luxury of leisure has time to contemplate God.He explains a bit of Tarzan's extraordinary intelligence--the fact that he taught himself to read the books in his parents cabin by creating his own interpretation of the alphabet.
I should have loved Jungle Tales, but I didn't.
Mostly because it was like a collection of short stories, but it also wasn't.
It wanted to be a collection of short stories, but also tried to have a story line throughout.
All the tales take place between when Tarzan's mama ape is killed and when he becomes king of the jungle.
It should have been a great period of Tarzan's life to write stories about, but he didn't learn cool things about survival in the jungle and he didn't come across new foes.Jungle tales did deal with Tarzan's struggle with Bestiality and interracial breeding and had an in depth essay on the nature of God that I would like to discuss with my Lit. of Religion Professor.
I remembered this favorite from my dad, and read it to my 3rd, 6th, and 9th graders.
I didn't remember the violence in some of it, and so I ended up skipping some of it with them.
The 6th grader thought that this book should be for 5th grade and above, because of the violence.
That sounds reasonable to me.Even so, there is a great deal of humor and excitement in the book, and even the youngest (3rd grade) did like the story and wants to read more.
12 small stories of Tarzan set during his early years, before knowing that he was Lord Greystoke, before Jane, before all the intrigues and the white enemies... this is the real thing, only jungle, animals, cannibal tribes and the quest for survival of a young boy raised by apes.I'm not a test fan ofm small stories, but this collection was the perfect companion to my African Safari in Kenya and Tanzania... it's over unfortunately but I think I'll keep reading the Tarzan series during the next months (maybe years, they're so many) and "returning to Africa" from time to time!
And he actually tackles some serious ideas here; more typically, he would limit himself to inserting sly asides into his adventures when he wanted to say something.Twelve tales take us into young (essentially teenage) Tarzan’s mind and his longing to understand his world, to love and be loved, even to find God. Pretty much like all of us, except set in African wilderness among Burroughs’s humanoid ‘great apes’ (hinted of as being proto-human ‘missing links’), cannibal natives, and wild and dangerous animals.The casual racism of the first Tarzan books is toned down — some.
Seems Edgar needed to make deadline or something as he pulled together some random ideas and plot lines that didn't fit in other novels.
All occur before Tarzan meets Jane and becomes civilized, so this would be an account of his crazy teen years we kind of zipped by in first novel.
Rather prefer having stories connect and have a plot line to follow, but these were at least an interesting look at Tarzan the teen.
I wanted to like this installment of the Tarzan story more than I did. Burroughs' editorializing on the humanity of black people was just disgusting, and unfortunately, it ruined the entire book for me. Tarzan himself is often the mouthpiece for horrifyingly racist comments, even for a soon-to-be century old book. I enjoyed the actual adventure pieces, though even those got repetitive. The formula is, to the 21st century reader, unforgivably cliched, and the science of a century ago is often gratingly incorrect, but taken for what it is, it's not the least-fun book I've ever read.
I fell in love with the story of Tarzan when I saw the Disney movie an age and a half ago, and got very excited when I recently found this book at a thrift store.
As is per usual, the Disney adaption is nothing like the original, but in my opinion neither one is better than the other.
Tarzan is more of an incubus in the books, and it's interesting to see the take on an human's inquisitive mind when largely isolated from mankind and raised by apes.
Apes.
A great little collection of stories that chronicle the early years of Tarzan and his life within the ape tribe of Kerchak..To my knowledge African Elephants and Lions make their homes on the savanna rather than in the forests, and he still doesn't make clear what kind of apes the Mangani are, since they somehow are different from gorillas (Bolgani). But you can ignore any inaccuracies and just enjoy the stories which are really wonderful.
I must be honest: I cared quite less about these additional tales of Tarzan's adventures than I have for the previous 5 novels. I enjoyed the 4 Greystoke novels and the following and even more improbable Jewels of Opar tale after that, but this was boring by comparison. It mostly sounded like the Tarzan series was so popular that ERB was forced to continue making up stories for Tarzan. Even though he managed to make them fit within his previously constructed narrative, it still felt forced.
One of my favorite Tarzan books, because it is devoid of crafty, scheming, evil Europeans. The book goes back to Tarzan's early life among the creatures of the jungle and delves into his friendships with the great apes, Tantor the elephant, and Manu the monkey. We get to be inside Tarzan's head as he ponders the metaphysical realities and invents his own philosophy to explain the unknown.
A beautiful, horrible, absurd and fruitful book of tales about a young Tarzan. Burroughs' portrayals of "darkest Africa" are racist to the core, but this volume can still leave readers of, uh, more humanist sensibilities entertained and intellectually stimulated.
This is a collection of stories set in Tarzan's early years in Africa, before he meets any Europeans. It's very racist - although in other books I know Burroughs is also offensive to modern sensibilities of women, Europeans, etc. But to give him credit- he certainly created an iconic character.
Stories of Tarzan in his younger days, loosely connected, as portrayed in the first Tarzan book (Tarzan of the Apes).
Entertaining but more than a little racist.
Ahi vamos! ya solo me faltan 18...
Another good Tarzan adventure.
This was a collection of short stories about Tarzan growing up in the tribe of Kerchak. I enjoyed them a lot, especially The God of Tarzan, where Tarzan was trying to figure out what exactly was meant by the word "God" which he encountered in his father's books. He came to a correct understanding of God as the Creator by the end. (What is kind of awkward about basically the entire series is that Edgar Rice Burroughs seems to have believed in both Christianity and macro-evolution at the same time, which is strange and very contradictory, but oh well.)
A mixed bag of short stories that are set in between the events of chapter 11 of Tarzan of the Apes. These stories range from rather pedestrian to more philosophical ("The God of Tarzan"). There is some connection among the stories (Teeka, Taug, Gazan, Bukawai, Tibo, and Momaya), and Burroughs explores Tarzan's relationships with the animals of The Jungle, particularly the development of them (Tantor and Manu in particular). I'd place this one in the middle overall for quality in my reading of the first 6 novels.
“Teenage Tarzan Comes of Age” Although this is the 6th book in ERB’s “Tarzan” series, it could easily be inserted  of the way through his famous “Tarzan of the Apes”—a novel which fired the imagination of countless boys around the world. If you could be persuaded to set aside the first book before Tarzan meets Jane Porter (a Baltimore girl who did not speak with a British accent—why should she?), you would experience Tarzan’s teenage years before his first encounter with his own kind--white men
“Teenage Tarzan Comes of Age” Although this is the 6th book in ERB’s “Tarzan” series, it could easily be inserted ¼ of the way through his famous “Tarzan of the Apes”—a novel which fired the imagination of countless boys around the world.
If you could be persuaded to set aside the first book before Tarzan meets Jane Porter (a Baltimore girl who did not speak with a British accent—why should she?), you would experience Tarzan’s teenage years before his first encounter with his own kind--white men.
But Tibo, the little black boy, lacked the divine spark which had permitted Tarzan, the white boy, to benefit by his training in the ways of the fierce jungle.
169"The cruelty of the blacks toward a captive always induced in Tarzan a feeling of angry contempt for the Gomangani.
Had he attempted to analyze this feeling he would have found it difficult, for during all his life he had been accustomed to sights of suffering or cruelty.
All the beasts of the jungle were cruel; but the cruelty of the blacks was of a different order.
Before he learned to speak, while he was still fawning over she-apes and terrorizing (and murdering) the Gomangani--the black tribal men of the jungle.Burroughs's racism and class-ism often subtly nuance the Tarzan books.
And we were also reminded (hypocritically in my opinion) that Tarzan's innate virtues, intelligence, and potential were all due to his high English breeding.
Hypocritical because Tarzan, before he learns to speak and interact with humans, is much more wild and blood-lusting than his black-skinned jungle counterparts.How can Burroughs refer to his refined breeding in one sentence and then have Tarzan murder another human being in the next?
Jo jokin aika sitten aloittamani Edgar Rice Burroughs -maratonin seuraava etappi "Tarzanin viidakkoseikkailuja" (Kirjayhtymä, 1991) ei lapsena lukeutunut suurimpien apinamies-suosikkieni joukkoon.Lyhyistä novellintapaisista koostuvassa romaanissa kuvataan Tarzanin lapsuus- ja nuoruusvuosia Kerchakin apinalauman rivijäsenenä, siis aikakaudesta jolloin sankarimme ei ollut vielä kohonnut ihmisapinain kunninkaaksi tai kohdannut elämänkumppaniaan Janea.
Sankarimme kokee erilaisia seikkailuja viidakon villipetojen ja alkuasukkaiden parissa ja oppii samalla asioita itsestään.
In the prior book of the series, Tarzan and the Jewels of Opar (1916), Tarzan and Jane have a vast African estate and Boy is grown with a romantic interest.
I wondered where the series would progress and in the current entry I have not found out.
The current entry is a collection of short stories, all prior to Tarzan having any contact with civilization.
Tarzan series - Collection of twelve loosely connected short stories: 1."Tarzan's First Love"; 2."The Capture of Tarzan"; 3."The Fight for the Balu"; 4."The God of Tarzan"; 5."Tarzan and the Black Boy"; 6."The Witch-Doctor Seeks Vengeance";7."The End of Bukawai"; 8."The Lion"; 9."The Nightmare";10."The Battle for Teeka"; 11."A Jungle Joke"; and, 12."Tarzan Rescues the Moon".
