https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16336.The_Unexpected_Guest
Well......that was weird...that's all I can think to say at the moment
A re-read for me, I love this story. It is fast-paced with a wonderful twist at the end that I solved the first time and remembered about half way through this time. Did I mention I love this story??1 Definitely recommend
A man driving in the night through the fog finds himself entrenched in a ditch.
He finds a cripple of a husband murdered, shot through his head, in the wheel-chair, while the wife is standing in a corner with the gun still in her hand and confessing to the murder.
Or her retarded bro-in-law?TO those who are thinking of picking this up, u might feel the story is kind of slow in the beginning without any hint of mystery, but then half way through it slowly starts picking up pace and the climax is just too overwhelming!This is supposedly the only or one of the few Christie novels where the murderer isn't caught or dead!
3.5 starsInteresting start of the story with a murder scene, a stranger walking in on the murder scene, a confession of the crime. It looks very simple open and shut case, and then the Web of confusion begins.Very different from the other agatha christie stories. This was the first one not having a Miss Marple or Poirot solving the crime. Somehow I was able to guess the plot at 70% of the story even with all the red herrings.
This was a play turned novel. It was an excellent murder mystery. It had me guessing the whole way, and kept my interest. I would recommend this to anyone who loves Christie's books or is new to her world. I would even reread it to see if I could pick up on clues as to who the murderer was.
I have to say that this book was good - though I read a novelized version of the play and not the play itself.
He seeks help in a house nearby, and realizes that a man who he thought was sleeping is actually dead.And then begins a roller-coaster ride, which I cannot begin to describe without giving away spoilers.However, it'll suffice to say that it is a good book, with some interesting twists that I didn't see coming.
(Either Ms. Christie is THAT good, or maybe I'm just a dumb detective!)It's not one of her finest works and lacks the intricate weaving that some of her best works have.
The Unexpected Guestis an entertaining mystery.It will keep you guessing andhold your attention to the end.Narrator Hugh Fraserdoes a very nice job.Clean except for mild Foul Language.
Great twist ending, although this book's depiction of mental illness has aged horribly.
I-ar părea rău ca o femeie frumoasă și tânără ca ea să fie închisă, mai ales când află de la ea că nimeni nu îl suporta pe bărbat din cauză că se purta urât cu toată lumea, așa că face ca totul să pară o crimă săvârșită de un bărbat al cărui copil fusese călcat de mașină de către cel ucis în urmă cu câțiva ani.
Starkwedder bănuiește că e ceva putred la mijloc, că nu tânăra doamnă și-a ucis bărbatul, dar nu are de ales și trebuie să o ajute în continuare.Cel mai bun lucru la acest roman e că nu bănuiești cine e criminalul decât aproape de sfârșit.
Its a dark rainy night. Perfect time for a murder.This book is about an ultimate revenge. A man in a wheel chair turns up murdered. Some would say the neglected and emotionally abused wife is the killer. Others think its the wives lover. The more the book goes on, it starts looking like the mentally handicapped brother has killed his own brother.Then the police start to pry and find out this dead man is a murderer himself. So who did it, a stranger? the wife? the lover? the brother? Well, there really is only one way to find out. Enjoy.
A light thriller filled with a lot of suspense and different theories about the murderer that you can't rule out until the very end.
I've almost given up on Agatha Christie so many times...
but this book renewed my interest in her.
This author's strong points are interesting characters, excellent dialogue, mystery and intrigue.
Forensics, detective work and science are not her strong points.
So when you get a book like this, that is written more from the laymen's perspectives and less from the detective's P.O.V. it's pretty good.There was one character in this book that I enjoyed.
Unfortunately toward the latter part of the book his character just kind of - poof - disappeared.
Fun and interesting to read.Good plot.
Good ending.
While the woman expected Michael to report that she had killed her husband to the police, Michael insisted that they should made as if the murder was done by an outsider.
They decided to put all the blame to a father whose child was ran over by the dead man 2 years ago and had come to the house that night to avenge his son.
Will they succeed in shifting the suspect from the dead man's wife to the outsider?
Or most importantly, did the wife really kill his husband?
I read this as the adapted book version and was instantly enthralled by the intoxicating writing style of Agatha Christie.
I managed to read it in very little time as I found it was unputdownable!!!
I was more and more perplexed at the unravelling of the mystery and was also very pleased to discover the element of mystery at the end of the book.
Very pleased that I decided to read this book.(I know this particular book I am describing is not the one listed above, I believe it was adapted by a Charles Osborne into a novel format)
Kat's review of Madame Bovary reminded me of this story. The wife is discovered standing over her husband's body and holding a smoking gun. Then she confesses to killing him. Well, given that it's an Agatha Christie, you'll have guessed it still isn't completely straightforward. To start with, it soon transpires that the bullet doesn't match the gun...
I missed Hercule but this was a bit fun. The most exciting part was finding out that this play opened at the Bristol Hippodrome for one week before moving to the West End.
Like the title of the book: i didn't expect the killer to be....!
Immediately, she confesses to having killed her husband and Michael Starkwedder offers to help her cover up the crime and conjure up a motif for his death...after all, Richard had a cruel streak and left an enemy or two along the way.Intelligent literature appears to be a thing of the past, but in this case, the impossible becomes logical and the logical becomes impossible.
I don't know how Agatha Christie manages to keep the reader from questioning her narrative or trusting the wrong people.
I am glad the author manages to keep me fooled though because it provides for an excellent reading pleasure.
I love this broad. I'm a huge fan of Marple and Poirot and I want to start reading all her standalones, especially since "Man in the Brown Suit" is freakn' genius! But this sucked and so did "Ordeal by Innocence" the standalone I read before this. Maybe I'm changing, maybe Christie is not perfect, either way I'm disappointed.
I love books that make me think that i got the mystery solve and then again makes me change my mind and then again, great book and great way to put the clues and also to get things solve. Again got this one in Audiobook and took an hour to listen, it is also a short book and if you begin to read it I am sure that you will not put down until is over.
Written as a play (I figured because of the stage directions and the fact that it all took place in one room!), it is beautifully read by the magnificent Hugh Fraser. Great fun, although strictly as a whodunit, it was pretty easy to figure out fairly early on. It was a nice companion on a 3 hour drive.
I downloaded this one from my library because I had never read anything by Agatha Christie, as far as I recall, and this happened to be available. It turned out to be a play (I hadn't realized), and was fun to listen to as it was read by an entire cast. An entertaining and just plain fun whodunit.
The Unexpected Guest by Agatha Christie was little bit different than other Agatha Christie's I've read right from the start. I hadn't realized it was a play adapted into a novel by another author when I began reading it. I enjoyed it more after I found that out because it does read a bit like a play.Still good misdirection, good storytelling and a good diversion.
This is one phenomenal mystery. The reader who wants to solve this one will be taken on a wild ride. Everyone is a suspect, and everyone is lying. The twists and turns leave the reader shocked at the final reveal. I wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone who likes a good mystery.
I am a fan of Agatha Christie's works, but probably wouldn't have tried many more if this had been the first one that I'd read/listened to. Hugh Fraser is my favorite narrator, though, which helped (and gave it an additional star).
The beauty of Christy is her easy page turning pacing. The scenes, dialogue and characters weave together like fine embroidery. This story is no exception. By today’s standards, it is a relatively tame murder, but delightfully intricate storytelling makes it a pleasure to read.
This was actually the first of Agatha Christie's works that I have read so going into it I had no idea what to expect and I am actually shocked by how much I enjoyed it. More people need to read 'The Unexpected Guest'.Read for the Charms Extra Credit Readathon.
what a twist!the only thing I can't stand is that, somehow, in AC's stories, there's always some unnecessary romance, the the woman would just be so beautiful that any man upon seeing her would do anything for her. ugh..... but other than that, brilliant
Oh how I love a good twist ending! Andy and I listened to this while driving to and from Austin. It's short and the audio narrator is great. I highly recommend if you need an audiobook for a quick trip.
An excellent, short Agatha Christie pick. Engaging characters and a slew of potential suspects checks the plot moving at an impressive pace. Wonderful twist at the end, although perhaps a bit too belabored in its explanation. Overall, a highly enjoyable treat.
