https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24766.The_Secret_Hour
This is the best book by him!!! (even though i have only read this book by him!!!)
Just finished this trilogy and I really liked it. It's premise is that there are actually 25 hours in each day but only those born on the stroke of midnight can live in that secret hour. To everyone else it passes in an instant. Those who live in that hour are born with special abilities to help combat the various nasties who also live there. Fun read. If it was a movie it would be PG-13 for language. No "F" word, no sex but more swearing than I would prefer.
The author does a great job of gradually weaving the story together (though much of the book is spent on setting up the concept), and it'll be interesting to what everyone's motivations are and how certain powers will be utilized.A couple of quibbles: while I like all the characters so far and don't really mind the multiple narrators, I think reducing the number of POVs would have made the narrative stronger.
Could be the author had a reason for doing this (deliberate misguidance, perhaps), but if so I think more time with Rex would have made this stronger.I also have to mention that the town's name gets used...a lot.
"The Secret Hour", the first book of the Midnighters series, is about Jessica Day who just moved to the small town of Bixby, Oklahoma.
The secret 25th hour takes place at the stroke of midnight, and for an extra hour only she and four other teens in Bixby can move freely and use special powers without the disruption of others - because they are all frozen in space and time.
I liked a lot of things in "The Secret Hour" too, though.
The characters, although at times just a little stereotyped, were pretty unique and just your average dysfunctional 'teenagers'.
I LOVE this series. Although the Uglies/Pretties/Specials/Extras series is more popular, I actually like this series better. It's about five teenagers who are the only people that can move during "the secret hour", when everything else in their town freezes at midnight. Although a bit weird, the story is very exciting and the characters are well-developed. Scott Westerfeld is one of my favorite authors, and these books did not disappoint me.
Non proprio malaccio come inizio, ma la verità è che mi aspettavo qualcosa di meglio.
una venticinquesima ora che scatta a mezzanotte?
mostri scuri e un solo gruppo di ragazzi che può combatterli?
ehi, Persona 3 è uno dei miei giochi preferiti da quand'è che è diventato un libro?
Solo che di Persona questo libro alla fin fine ha ben poco.
Well, the description on the back was far more intriguing than the actual story inside.
It was not awful and it was easy to read and a nice original idea but it was missing the kind of spark that takes a book from 'okay' to 'compelling' for me.
I'm not completely turned off the series and will definitely have a read of the second book as I think the story definitely has potential, especially now that it's (hopefully) moving away from the mundane descriptions of every action taking place inside the school.
Some of the kids here, especially girls, having been reading this Midnighters series. Not bad for kiddie fantasy, but not much meat. A bit Twilight-ish. Good for me to know what the kids are reading and be able to talk about it, but not something I'd recommend to adults unless you're looking for some reluctant reader material or another fantasy series for those who have gone through everything else you can think of.
Guys, this is now just $.99 for the Kindle version, and it's really good.
The clock strikes midnight and the world around you freezes, but you can still move among it.
Really cool.Meet the Midnighters, a group of teens who were born exactly as the clock struck midnight thus allowing them to see the 'blue time' - the space in-between.
Other things lurk in the 'blue time' - ancient things.
And these ancient things want to get back into the real world.
It's really hard to come across a completely unique story line now with how many YA books are out there, but Westerfeld managed that.
It almost seemed like this book just barely scrapped the surface of the lore.As for the characters themselves, well, they were okay.
Questo libro è una vera e propria rivelazione.Nella città di Bixby, allo scoccare della mezzanotte, nasce un'altra ora dove il mondo si congela, le leggi della fisica perdono ogni importanza e dei mostri letali e affamati emergono dal passato per iniziare la loro caccia.
L'autore non ha tralasciato nemmeno un particolare e ho adorato vedere le dinamiche dell'ora segreta, i mostri che si risvegliano, i poteri dei ragazzi e come si attrezzano per proteggersi da quelle orrende creature.- I colpi di scena non sono mancati e hanno dato un tono ancora più avventuroso al libro.Cosa non mi è piaciuto di questo libro:- C'erano troppi punti di vista.
Jessica is a typical 16-year-old girl, who happens to be born at midnight.
This doesn’t mean anything to her until the day she moves with her family to Bixby.
This is all fun until she learns that they are not the only ones moving through midnight.
Darklings and Slithers are coming after her and she has to be protected.The first book is introducing us to this new midnight world and follows Jessica as she learns about her new powers.With wonderful characters and a thrilling story this book is one of my favourites.
This first book in the Midnighters series was a fun ride. The mythology/world of the midnighters was very different and fascinating. Also, the main character is a redhead named Jessica Day- how could he go wrong?
Not to mention that her dreams at night are becoming very, very vivid--such as the fact that for one hour at midnight, time seems to literally stand still.
Such is the life of the Midnighters, a group of teens who were born at midnight and have the ability to see the "blue time", the twenty-fifth hour of the day where time stands still for everyone else.
Jess is, of course, skeptical at first that time is actually standing still, and that her new rag-tag group of friends has special powers.
I can't wait to read the next book in the series, to see where the Midnighters go from here.
On her first night in Bixby, Oklahoma, fifteen year old Jessica Day learns that for her, time stops for on hour every night at midnight.
In what she calls "the secret hour", rain, people, smoke, everything stops as the world is bathed in a blue light and a different moon arcs across the sky.
She soon learns that she's not alone in the midnight hour, but shares it with four other teenagers from town as well as shadowy creatures called "darklings." Apparently docile before her arrival, the darklings become increasingly aggressive and seem bent on her destruction.The book is pretty fast-paced and reading of the teenagers' attempts to make sense of their situation kept my interest.
Each kid has a special ability that aids them during the secret hour.
This book made me really glad that I was born at 8 am!I'm not really sure what to say about this book.
Now the creatures are only "alive" during that one lost hour, when everyone else is frozen.
But people who were born at midnight are still alive/awake in the hour and can move about.
But the 25th hour only happens at some places around the globe.
But when I finished it I wasn't sure if I cared what happens in book 2.
So I'm not sure how good it can really be.
La storia di per sè non è male, ma i personaggi sono troppo stereotipati. La protagonista, Jessica Day, è l'incarnazione della Mary Sue, bellissima, amata da tutti ( possibile che tutti notano di notte e senza nessuna luce che lei si è truccata? quel pezzo mi ha fatta ridere e non era sicuramente voluto ). Gli altri personaggi sono nerd sfigati ed emarginati dalla società, l'unico bello finisce, ovviamente, con la protagonista. Insomma, banalità della banalità.
DNF page 123, the story just wasn't grabbing me.
Not only is Jessica’s power a mystery but for some reason it is causing the shadow creatures that dwell in the midnight hour to become more and more violent.This book was a quick and easy read and was entertaining.
There is also the overall mystery behind why Bixby is like it is and has this strange 13th hour.
Things are wrapped up nicely for this first book, but there are unsolved mysteries left for the rest of the series.Overall this was a fun and creepy paranormal read.
Jessica, a high school student, has just moved into town and is starting to have some very peculiar dreams.
She is confronted by some students at school and they seem to know all about her dreams.
These Midnighters all have special abilities that help them navigate in this 25th hour.
Until Jessica came to town the other Midnighters have managed to stay some what safe.
But suddenly the 25th hour has become exteemly not so safe.
Jessica is unsure what her ability is and until she finds out, the others are all trying to keep her alive.
Non sono proprio appassionata del genere fantasy, ma devo ammettere che questo libro mi è piaciuto.
Nonostante i personaggi non mi facessero impazzire.
Nonostante la faccenda delle parole di tredici lettere alla lunga mi infastidisse.
Nonostante l'epilogo mi abbia lasciata con l'amaro in bocca, perché non é il "e vissero tutti felici e contenti" che mi aspettavo.
Il terzo libro della saga é stato il migliore, l'evoluzione presa dai personaggi di Melissa e soprattutto di Rex mi ha intrigata parecchio, e con ciò pure il loro rapporto così profondo ed esclusivo, e proprio per questo motivo la delusione per il finale é ancora più bruciante.
An early Westerfeld. And a bit lame. Good to know that he got better. This one made Zeroes seem virtually plagiaristic, but that one is better executed. In this one the characters feel kind of lifeless and the world arbitrary. The ideas are interesting but not detailed enough. But otherwise its basically a superhero book but just not labeled as such. Details would have been better - of the individuals, of the lore. I'll still read the sequel, but I was hoping for more. 2.5 of 5.
Das Buch habe ich vor ca.
Damals fand ich es super und habe mich nur etwas über das offene Ende gewundert.Man muss sich jetzt meine Überraschung vorstellen, als ich das Buch vor einigen Monaten wieder in den Händen hielt und auf die kleine 1 aufmerksam wurde.Ja es ist eine Trilogie.Und ja.
Es war nicht der einzige Hinweis.Die kleine Leseprobe am Ende des Buches hätte mich vielleicht auch auf die Idee bringen können 😅😂So kurz vor Halloween ist es definitiv eine gute Entscheidung gewesen es zu lesen, da es an manchen Stellen etwas unheimlich ist (Aber wirklich nur sehr sehr wenig)Spaß gemacht hat es aufjedenfall.Und diesmal werde ich die ganze Trilogie lesen :D
Here's the review I wrote for my school newspaper!When Jessica Day moves from Chicago to the small town of Bixby, Oklahoma, she’s expecting a change.
because, in Bixby, there are 25 hours in the day.
Jessica soon realizes she is one of the few who can live in the secret hour, and soon finds a unique cast of other teens like her.
They all seem to have a special power, like flight, or mindreading.
But as great as it is to have an extra hour in the day, the monsters that inhabit the secret hour have it out for Jessica.
Illustrazioni Stupendamente CatastroficheLe prime dieci pagine mi hanno fatto storcere il naso.Se vedo un altro liceo americano vomito, e poi la tipa che si è appena trasferita da una grande città ad un paesello nel nulla...oh god, mi ricorda qualcosa.Ma questa è una mossa strategica di Westerfeld, ci scommetto.Del tipo:"Adesso pensate che sia una cavolata per bimbiminkia eh?E invece NO!"E infatti ha ragione,e l'ha brillantemente dimostrato direi: storia affascinante e protagonisti, adolescenti, interessanti e ben delineati.Certo non tutti eh?
Poter ricondurre un problema reale, e bello grosso, ad uno schema lo rende meno spaventoso.E poi la invidio perchè voglio anche io Illustrazioni Stupendamente Catastrofiche!
I have to admit, lately my forays into the YA world have not really panned out, so I started this book with no small amount of trepidation.
While the main plot definitely tied up nicely, there is enough of a cliffhanger that I can't wait to start the sequel!
Westerfield combines these wishes into a wonderful blend of fantasy novel, suspenseful scares (these high schoolers aren't the only ones who get to enjoy this mystical hour) and familiar growing-up woes (curfews, moving to a new town) all mesh into a completely creative new whole.
Jessica struggles to fit into her new school, however, as she continues to adapt and get use to her school enviroment, she comes across other kids who are "different" from the rest.
Jessica later learns that she's different too when she experiences the "25th hour".
A coming of age, self discovery and acceptance of one's identity story rises the conflict between the protagonist and her society, and the conflict with her inner self.
All in all, I found the story's plot very interesting because readers can relate to the theme of self discovery so well because that is a conflict every individual comes across in life.
This is what Jessica Day finds out soon after moving to Bixby, Oklahoma.
To have this space in time where all bets are off, where an ancient and frea-kay set of rules suddenly apply and you get to be a part of it - that's just one great piece of imagination.
His characters are intense - although Jessica seems a bit "blah" compared to everyone else, but I can see how he's just getting her set-up to become who she truly is in the next two books.My only complaint?
He gets cheesy at the climax, darn him!
The plot is intriguing and suspenseful...and overall pretty good.HOWEVER:I dislike most of the characters- they can be very annoying at times, especially Jessica- though she does get better as the series continues.
I feel like the story would have had a greater impact if the characters actually CARED about eachother.
Maybe that seems silly, but I would have felt more emotionally connected to the story if the characters liked eachother a bit more.
It seems as if they go around saving eachother simply because they think it's what they SHOULD do...Out of the three books, this one is my least favorite, and the most boring--especially with the extra dosage of Jessica.
There are 25 hours in a day.
We just can't see the secret hour.
But there are other creatures that exist in the secret hour as well.
They usually don't attack, but when Jessica Day shows up and realizes that she's a midnighter, the darklings and slithers come for her the minute they sense her presence.
Rex, Dess, Melissa and Jonathan, all with special abilities that are heightened in the secret hour, help Jessica find out what she is and why the darklings are trying to kill her.
I loved Westerfeld's story about the Midnighters.
