https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6671.The_Wonderful_Story_of_Henry_Sugar_and_Six_More
After reading Switch Bitch (also a short story collection by Dahl), I did not have much hope for this collection.
A fancy-car driver picks up a hitchhiker and gets far more than he bargained for - this man has some very deft fingers and could steal the anything from anyone.The Mildenhall Treasure - bit of a disappointment.
These bullies were absolute monsters - culiminating in them dismembering a mother swan, tying her severed wings to the wimpy kid, forcing him to climb a tree and jump off (for him to "fly").
I already read the longer version in Going Solo by Dahl so it was fun to connect the snippets to the longer story.Audiobook CommentsWell-read.
I picked this one up after seeing a review on GR and started it almost two months ago.
It's a book of short stories and I would pick it up when I needed a quick break from work, current reading, chores, etc.
There is even a story of how Dahl got started writing.
Nice to get a big picture view of his life along with how he got his start writing.
But that was just issues I have (touchy w/anything w/animals).Overall, glad I read this one to get a different take on Dahl's writing.
Didn't everyone try to learn to see through things using the flame trick like Henry Sugar?
This book is made up of multiple short stories by Roald Dahl.- "The Boy Who Talked With Animals - in which a stranded sea turtle and a small boy have more in common than meets the eye.- The Hitchhiker - proves that in a pinch a professional pickpocket can be the perfect pal.- The Mildenhall Treasure - a true tale of fortune found and an opportunity lost.- The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar - in which a modern-day Robin Hood brings joy to the hearts of orphans - and fear to the souls of casino owners around the world."I did not enjoy The Boy Who Talked With Animals.
Re-reading one of my all time favorite books or more accurately short stories by Road Dahl. While the story of Henry Sugar is far less known than James and the Giant Peach or Charile and the Chocolate Factory ... as much as I loved those stories growing up, its Henry Sugar that stuck with me the most. And despite having first read this over 30+ years ago, enjoy it just as much as an adult. Highly recommended
This book was full of short stories that can be enjoyed by all.I especially liked "The Boy Who Talked With Animals".
Roald Dahl's books always have wonderful effect on me.When I read The Witches, I thanked God I didn't meet any witch as a child.When I read Matilda, I think she's the brightest girl ever.When I read Charlie and The Chocolate Factory, I believe that there is a very big and magical chocolate factory somewhere in this world.When I read the Magic Finger, suddenly I have some hatred to these animal hunters.When I read Charlie and The Great Glass Elevator, I wish that I can go to space hotel as well.When I read the Twits, I want to thrown up.When I read James and The Giant Peach, I want to go inside the amazing peach.When I read this book, I can't say more than amazing.
This book makes me almost believe about something, which I tell you, almost impossible.But who's Roald Dahl?
Jumping back into Roald Dahl literature has been one of the best experiences in terms of reading this year.I never considered that I would enjoy short stories so much.
This was such a great read and overall, my rating was based on my enjoyment.Ratings for each short story:The Boy Who Talked with Animals: 2/5The Hitch-hiker: 4/5 Mildenhall Treasure: 4.5/5The Swan: 2/5The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar: 5 BRILLIANT STARS/5Lucky Break: 4/5 (3.5)A Piece of Cake: 4/5 (3.5)The Boy Who Talked with Animals, I found it to be kind of pointless.
You should be able to write well.
By that I mean you should be able to make a scene come alive in the reader's mind.
In other words, you must be able to stick to what you are doing and never give up, for hour after hour, day after day, week after week and month after month.4.
You are working alone.
No one is around to fire you if you don't turn up for work, or tick you off if you start slacking.6.
The writer who thinks his work is marvelous is heading for trouble."
I've always been mesmerised by Roald Dahl - but Henry Sugar holds a special place in my heart. A story I could read again and again.
En el mejor de los casos, Dahl logra posicionar su propia visión de la literatura fantástica, liberándose de la seriedad, la moral y la rigidez del realismo literario; en el peor de los casos, sus descripciones pueden ser un tanto redundantes y sobre-explicadas, y sus historias (al menos en este libro) demasiado heterogéneas.
En cambio "El autoestopista" es un relato más interesante, cercano al realismo americano de nuestra época y que trata sobre un personaje bribón y sagaz cuya construcción psicológica no tiene nada que ver con la literatura para niños.Por su parte, "El cisne" provoca una respuesta emocional muy significativa.
Well I enjoyed this collection of short stories much :) Especially the first two & the last two :)The Boy who talked with Animals was just a great one & the Hitch Hiker was hilarious :D The Wonderful story of Henry Sugar was indeed wonderful & the last one which was rather autobiographical was amazing :) Wish these stories wouldn't end..
I love his books and it is such a great joy to read them.
This book tells us of 7 Different Stories which all of them are amazing.
I love the story of Henry Sugar and the story of the Man who sees without his eyes, it is so well written and just beautiful.
Roald Dahl's books are always such a delight to read and whenever you read his books sometimes your mind starts to wander and starts to imagine beautiful things and just feel so happy.
Roald Dahl okumayı severim. Eğlenceli bir kalemi, sınırlardan uzak bir dili var ama ilk defa bu tarz bir öykü kitabını okudum. Kendi içlerinde belki güzel öykülerdi ama hiçbiri benim tam manasıyla tatmin etmedi.Ayrıca bu kitabın içeriğinin Goodreads etiketlerine rağmen çocuklarla nasıl bir ilgisi olduğunu çıkaramadım. Ben çocuk olsaydım, diğer kitapları varken bunu okumazdım diyebilirim.
After falling in love with Dahl (via Matilda), I read this fantastic collection of short stories.
The tales had such a profound effect on me that I remember them clearly to this day (despite not having read this collection since the umpteenth time when I was in my teens), and I still think fondly about one of them in particular on a regular basis.
If I were to be trapped on a desert island with just a handful of books to read again and again, this would definitely be one of my picks.
The book tells the story about a man in India (Imhan Khan) who has learned to see through objects without the use of his eyes.
Dahl writes the story in such a way that the reader becomes convinced Henry Sugar was a real, breathing person.
For an enthusiastic Dahl fan like myself, getting a glimpse of the man behind the curtain is exciting, and getting to know more about Dahl is a real treat.Book Details: Title The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six MoreAuthor Roald DahlReviewed By Purplycookie
This is a wonderful collection of short stories, a collection of tales that could only come from the inimitable Roald Dahl.
I put the book on hold, borrowed it, and even tried to start the story, but we just never got into it and the book would sit until it was time to return it.
Overall, I thought that this was a terrific book of short stories and I'm sorry that we took so long to finish it.
Still, we have really enjoyed reading Roald Dahl's books and we will be sure to look for more of them at our local library.
Remembering the joy of reading Road Dahl as a child, I felt very excited when I received ‘The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar, And Six More’ as a birthday present.
With seven short stories to capture the reader; including fiction and non-fiction, Roald Dahl once again writes with imagination, wit and intelligence.
Whilst mystery and humour most definitely exist, these stories do not stop here.
To be a good fiction writer (as Roald Dahl explains) “you should have imagination…make a scene come alive, and a keen sense of humour.” Throughout this book he most definitely ticks these boxes, compiling an interesting, humorous and enjoyable read.
I loved two of the stories especially, but the others were a little more average.
The whole collection really wasn't what I expected, after my many years of reading Dahl's books.
I was trying to decide the whole time if I would have liked the stories if I'd read them when I was younger.
Strangely enough, I liked two of the three nonfiction stories the best--"The Mildenhall Treasure" and "Lucky Break." "Lucky Break" was all about his path to becoming a writer and it was quite fascinating.
The rest of the book was worth reading to get to that one at the end.
The short stories (7 of them) are mainly directed at an older age group though touch on similar themes to his younger work.
My copy has a different cover which doesn't appear here.I've read 'The Hitch-hiker' before and enjoyed it, found 'The Swan' quite dark and disturbing (taking the bullying of his younger books to more dangerous regions).
I did quite like Lucky Break, detailing briefly how he became a writer (like a condensed version of Boy and Going Solo) and the accompanying 'A piece of cake', his first written and published story.
'The Mildenhall Treasure' just didn't interest me though, feeling unsatisfying.Not bad, I just prefer his children's books.
Seven short stories:1. The Boy Who Talked with Animals2. The Hitch-hiker3. The Mildenhall Treasure nonfiction4. The Swan5. The Wonderful Story of Henry 6. Lucky Break nonfiction7. A Piece of Cake nonfiction This collection is being labeled by the publisher as teenage fiction which in my opinion it's not. Anyway, grown ups should read this collection too, especially these who only knows Dahl by his children books.
This is one of my favorite books for kids. I remember my Mom reading it to us as kids during our Cape Cod vacation. I read it with Hope, Gracie and Henry (he loves the name of the book). It is a great story about how people can change & has a metaphysical bent. Read it aloud to a kid.
Though clearly marketed as a book for young readers, if not children per se (it says 12 and up), this does not really seem like a kids' book to me.
Indeed, some of the pieces--e.g. Dahl's war memoir, or his somewhat fictionalized account of the discovery of a Roman treasure hoard--were clearly NOT written with children specifically in mind.
On the other hand, Dahl's memoir about his childhood and how he became a writer often explains and defines things one would assume most adults know, so does seem aimed at younger readers.
I recently read The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More by Roald Dahl, which tells short stories on a greedy man who changes his lifestyle.
In my opinion, Roald Dahl is one of the best authors since he can turn fantasy and unbelievable novels into novels that seem realistic, but still unbelievable.
Both of these characters follow a yoga path, which is the style of magic and concentrating the inner and outer mind.
Henry Sugar had a thought, after 3 years of the path of yoga, to help others such as an orphanage.
Andrew Scott narrates this audio, and I speak true when I say his voice along with Dahl's words produce a galvanic amalgam of magic intimacy for the ear and mind.The seven stories are:* The Boy Who Talked with Animals* The Hitchhiker* The Mildenhall Treasure* The Swan* The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar* Lucky Break* A Piece of Cake.These are all fine specimen.
The three stories that stole my breath?* The Mildenhall Treasure* The Swan* A Piece of Cake.Out of these, "The Swan" is reason enough to read this collection.
His work walks a deliciously fine line with the frightening - funny, magical worlds filled with enough perverse imagination to bring out the darkness in wonder.
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory always frightened me a little, as did  James and the Giant Peach.
- and outsmarting rich bastards who hunted for fun rather than food.This book of short stories carries on the same lively sense of imagination, albeit in very different and far more human contexts than much of his more fantastical work.
Collection of 6 of Roald Dahl's stories, including three non-fiction works.
This collection also includes that story, Dahl's first published work, and it reads just like what it is, as though he sat down to record a list of the things he remembered and got throughly carried away.
It's fun to read those two stories in a row like that.The other pieces in the collection are typical Roald Dahl fantasy, bizarre and charming.
Even the third non-fiction piece reads like his fiction; it may have really happened, but if it hadn't, Dahl would probably have thought of it himself eventually.
The title suggests that these are happy wonder-filled stories.
There was another story about a boy who rides a sea turtle.
The story that sticks out most in my mind, however, is one that is (I believe) called "The Swan." It's about a boy who is bullied - more than bullied, really, since the bullies tie him to the train tracks and leave him there as a train comes - it's really more like torture.
This story is pretty disturbing.
I do like disturbing stories, however, so it didn't bother me.
I'm not usually interested in non-fiction, even Roald Dahl admits he isn't either, but his three non-fiction short stories collected in this book will blow you away.Out of the seven stories in this book, my favorites would have to be:"The Hitchhiker" - Loved the ending!
Fascinating!"The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar" - if you love playing cards you will love this story!"Lucky Break" - autobiographical story about how Dahl became a writer.
Beginning with his horrible beatings in boarding school, to his fighter pilot experience in WWII, to meeting Walt Disney, CS Forester, Franklin Roosevelt, and more!"A Piece of Cake" - first story he ever wrote.
Autobiographical story about crashing his plane in WWII.
Yesterday was bright and windy and sunny and I went to Park Slope to meet up with Danny and then Kev
