https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27840585-present-over-perfect
While I'm learning to live with a messy playroom, Niequist is finding balance by saying no to Big Opportunities and Flashy Job Offers.
She's learning to settle in at home with a cup of tea and her family.
In that sense, Niequist is open about her change in mindset and what that cost her family and her career.However, as an average mom who doesn't have a Big Career to say no to, I had trouble relating.
The big ideas were powerful but the details were privileged and narrow.
There were occasional gems (I'll quote a couple lines I liked below), but mostly I just kept thinking, "yes, but where is the value here for me?" That sounds a little selfish, but then again, as a reader I'm the one who could potentially be buying this book and spending hours of my life on it.
That truth isn't covered here.PositivesWhile many of the chapters in this book felt like a waste of my time, there were a few that I actually appreciated - mainly the ones that actually related to the title of the book, giving thoughts on how to be present in our lives while letting go of our ideas of perfection.
Mentions of spiritual directors (both she and her husband see Jesuit priests as their spiritual directors), and practices of Catholicism and mysticism left me beyond wary of Niequist.
Very, very little emphasis was placed on Jesus, the gospel, Scripture, or grace while overwhelming ink was given to counselors, spiritual directors, and practices of spiritual formation.
And prior to that both were on staff at another large church in Michigan.Honestly, this terrifies me that this book hit the NYT bestsellers list immediately, that so many women look to Niequist's voice for "spiritual direction" (to use one of her favorite terms).LADIES, we have a spiritual director and counselor.
Another positive audiobook focused on simplifying life. Some helpful tips here and lots of acceptance.2017 Summer Vacation Book #1 (Audio #1)
I WANTED to like this book, really I did, and to be honest there were a few chapters I really appreciated.
It's really hard for me to connect to someone that has the luxury of going away from life every summer to a lake house or Lake Geneva and leaving things behind.
I kept wondering why things were so tough for a person that has two healthy kids, a loving/wonderful husband, and annual get-away destination.
As with other reviews I fear I was not the target audience even though I tried really hard to be.
Her devotional Savor: Living Abundantly Where You Are, As You Are is one I've relied on for the past couple of years.Having read probably 10 books about "slowing down" and "simplifying," I'm never quite sure if I'll glean anything new from a book or if it will just be more of the same.
I'm not sure if Niequist's writing just resonates so well with me, if I was desperate to hear the message, or if this book is really that good, but this book struck a major chord.
The highlighter function on my Kindle was working in overdrive while reading this book as my brain went right along saying "Yes!
As I read to page 70 I just kept thinking and what about the single moms with no money?!
And I know, that's a real spiritual issue; it's just irritating to me that she wrote a book on it.8/22/17- I watched a Super Soul Sunday Oprah interview with the author and it's made me appreciate her message more.
I definitely still don't like it as a book, but I loved it as a podcast type-shortened-audio-food-for-thought sermon.
And I do appreciate that she's basically saying DO LESS.
Some good nuggets in here and a good theme, overall. But super repetitive (super!!!) and felt a bit thrown together. Like, her editor called her to badger her about a new book and she said, "no! I'm done hustling! I'm taking a break and getting back to my core!" And her editor said, "great! Write about that! I need it in a week!" It has that messy, mid-journey memoir, right-in-the-thick-of-it feel to it. It very easily could have been (probably should have been) a magazine article.
This was so great as well as so convicting. I loved all of it, and the audiobook is fantastic!
I have definitely been unintentionally doing this, only bringing thanks for my achievements or apologies for my failings instead of simply pouring out my heart and soul to God, including all the small hurts and enormous fears.Finally, she encapsulates succinctly and strikingly the current culture’s message to women, to be, “really skinny and really tired.
I think there were nuggets of good thoughts here and there in this book, but overall, I was overwhelmed by the serious lack of recognition of privilege throughout.
I think the fact that I heard a ton of hype about this book may have set me up for disappointment, but still.
That said, if you happen to be someone who is free to choose your own work hours, and you're also successful and wealthy enough to be able to say no to paid work, but have somehow managed to load your plate too heavily, this may be the book for you.
I did not learn anything from this book. The best thing about it was the title. The rest was her complaining about how busy she is and how she isn't going to write books anymore—while she is writing a book. I wish it had more practical advice, or even just wisdom about what matters in life versus what doesn't. Instead it felt like a lot of self-loathing followed by peace followed by more self- loathing.
I don't resonate with everything she writes about in this book, but there have been some aspects that rang true and caught my attention.Shauna Niequist tells stories from her personal discovery of what it means to have way too much on your plate, saying "yes" to one more thing, but forgetting what is important and what should be a priority.
You know, the busy wife&mom life VS those who aren't that.Another thing worth mentioning is that sometimes it feels like she keeps saying the same thing over and over again.
Shauna repeats herself WAY too much, I felt like I was reading a blog post about the same thing over and over again. Is this book a memoir or self-help? very selfishly written if she truely meant to inspire. the premise is good, but how??? no meat whatsoever, especially if you're looking for truth based on the Bible. I have never given such a low review, I almost feel bad, but she says in her book that she isn't looking for accolades from others anymore, so... oh well!
As someone who can get caught up in the act of perfectionism and the frantic lifestyle, I really took away a lot from the content of this book.
If you are sick and tired of feeling sick and tired, this book may be a helpful tool for change.
Although the author and I live drastically different lifestyles, I can relate to her struggles as well as the desires she has for her life.
This book was a good reminder to refocus on what my priorities are in life and I found her stories profoundly relatable.
Hmmmm. Not what I thought. This type of book is truly my favorite type of non fiction. I love books on balance, busyness and best yes. My night stand is full of them. Love the title and the concept of slowing down and giving your best to those in your home first. But, I felt like I was drowning in so much new age thinking that this one just wasn't for me.
I've said it before and I'll say it again: I'm convinced Shauna Niequist is me, just 12 years older and with an excessive love of cheese I'll never be able to share. Basically everything she writes hits me squarely in the heart and tells me exactly what I need to hear right when I need it most. This one was no exception. Full review to come.
A 4.5 for me. A really strong (good) message about not hustling. Almost feels like she can see into my brain.
I really enjoyed the book "Bread and Wine", but I struggled to finish this one. Too repetitive and the new age religious tone of this book, well lets just say I'm not a fan.
I'm going to agree with many of the reviews that this was more of a memoir then any kind of self-help book.
It was like reading her diary.
It was an easy read but I was disappointed.
I was expecting more encouragement on my own path to a life of simplicity.
I don't recommend this book unless you enjoy reading someone's diary of thoughts and struggles.
I do recommend The Best Yes by Lysa Terkurest, Simply Tuesday by Emily P.
Great books that are inspirational to choosing simplicity and living life for more then stuff and the badge of honor of being busy!
That thing when you read a book that is exactly what you need at this precise moment in your life? Yeah, I love when that happens.
If you want to start your next year out right, this book is for you.
You know it is!Shauna shares her own struggles of overcommitting, guilt about what she isn’t doing, and how we look for validation through social media instead of the people sharing our home.Yup, it hit me right in the gut.Why are we so scared to sit in silence and what can be learned from a slowed down life?
I just know it would be a great way for you to start your year too as you shift your focus from others to the people that should be the most important in your life.
Sometimes you read a book and it feels good to finish something.
Bring tears to my eyes.
Convict me of needing to find and rediscover pieces of myself and my soul and connection to God. To make the time for quiet and stillness and prayer.
For creating and recreating furniture and art and song.
That is this book.
That is this book.
I haven't picked up and finished one so quickly amidst my busy-with-life frantic mindset in a long time.
Read this book.
Let it invite you to the courage to slow down and soak in what lights your soul ablaze.
This may be for some. But definitely not for me. Poorly written. I felt so much was left out. The word whining comes to mind and narcissism... definitely not for me.
"...and the soul felt its worth."
Shauna does it again with another book I'll be revisiting year over year, season after season.
And yet, there's no real reflection upon why.
There's nothing new in here for readers who are familiar with the work of, say, Brene Brown.
What's missing is the real vulnerability.
And not to mention, very little reflection upon privilege and how she COULD just start saying no because she had the safety nets to do so (something any woman of color can't do, let alone any woman who isn't middle class and comfortable).
There are better books, though I see young, white, Christian female readers finding this a good starting place if it's a topic they've never really thought much about before.
(2 stars) And the filler uncomfortably sat in the way of an otherwise enjoyable collection, often slipping into stories that may have been better left untold to the public, once descriptively alluding to the extreme messiness of a friend's life while minimizing the messiness of her own ("I've been carrying his family's deception and betrayal and disease for decades.
Some times work has to come first for a period if that is the story that you and your family are telling together, and there isn't shame in that.
Because she hustled and has resources now that allow her to be able to choose to snuggle with her son instead of work.
The season of life I am currently in is crazy chaos, so the theme of this book sparked my interest.
Everyday I am looking for more ways to simplify, stay present, and not worry so much about having everything perfect, so I wanted to love this book.
And although I love the theme of everything Shauna wrote about, I did not feel very connected to her words.
These types of things are not tangible in my life so I felt a disconnect to her story.
A quick read, I powered thru, but I never felt invested or fulfilled.
There is a certain peace and freedom found in these pages. Today I decided I would read this book. And I did. All day. It's the only thing I did, really. And I'm glad. I'm in this same season of stripping away, deciding what I can and can't do and learning how to say no. Learning how to say yes. And learning how to jump. And sometimes, well, all the time, God gives us exactly what we need when we need it most. Today it was this book.
