https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1627.Brokeback_Mountain
I think this would have worked better in longer form, as it felt way too rushed.
This was a very character driven story, but I feel like I didn't get to know the characters all that well.
I'm excited to watch the movie tonight!
updateSo I watched the movie, and it was a very good adaptation of the story!
Many direct quotes from the story were used, and it followed the exact same plot but fleshed it out a lot more.
Not the most exciting movie of all time, but I definitely felt the feels because Jake and Heath perfectly portrayed the leading men.
GOOD STUFF.
The shirt seemed heavy until he saw there was another shirt inside it, the sleeves carefully worked down inside Jack’s sleeves. It was his own plaid shirt, lost, he’d thought, long ago in some damn laundry, his dirty shirt, the pocket ripped, buttons missing, stolen by Jack and hidden here inside Jack’s own shirt, the pair like two skins, one inside the other, two in one. Sometimes, I want to cry.When I hear of cases of gay adolescents and adults who commit suicide because they are harassed, th
Sometimes, I want to cry.When I hear of cases of gay adolescents and adults who commit suicide because they are harassed, they feel alienated, like outcasts and have absolutely no more strength inside of them, all I want to do is curl up in a corner andcry, cry, crybecause it’sunfair, unfair, unfair.But crying won't help.Everyone should have the right to love freely and be loved back without being pointed at and tyrannized for showing such a beautiful emotion.We live in an ugly world.But Jack and Ennis, they live in an uglier one.What if they hadn’t met?
Normally, I would never read something like this.
No, I am not homophobic (my older brother is gay); but I do get uncomfortable when reading about two men kissing.
This novella is not merely about two men who fall in love; it is about love itself.
The love story these men share is intense, stormy, beautiful, and heart-wrenching, and I found myself thankful that I have only ever loved one woman my entire life--I duped her into marrying me later--and, therefore, have never had my heart broken.
This one event commenced Jack and Ennis' relationship for the next twenty years, one that would hold disastrous for them and their families.At only fifty five pages in length, Proulx weaved a tragic story of forbidden love.
Not only were the characters well fleshed out, but Proulx weaved in multiple story lines in this short tale, making the writing engaging from start to finish.After reading the tragic Brokeback Mountain, I am left uncertain whether I will read Proulx's Pulitzer winning novel.
It is obvious that from this short tale that Proulx can write and I am intrigued to fit her novels into my ongoing Pulitzer challenge.

Review to come.This is the first time I like the movie more than the book...
Reread: "Below it he drove a nail and on the nail he hung the wire hanger and the two old shirts suspended from it. He stepped back and looked at the ensemble through a few stinging tears." Bumping up my rating to 5 unforgettable stars!This novella will always have a place in my heart. I miss these guys so much. Perhaps, in an alternate reality, Jack and Ennis will have their HEA. "Later, that dozy embrace solidified in his memory as the single moment of artless, charmed happiness in their separ
This is a tale about two young cowboys, Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist, who both develop an intimate relationship in the summer of 1963 in Brokeback Mountain.
"I got a say this to you one time, Jack, and I ain't foolin.
What I don't know," said Ennis, "all them things I don't know could get you killed if I should come to know them." "Try this one," said Jack, "and I'll say it just one time.
You wouldn't do it, Ennis, so what we got now is Brokeback Mountain.
This isn’t simply a book about two cowboys falling in love: this is the heartbreaking tale of Jack and Ennis who love each other, but deny it not only because they’re afraid of the outside world, but also of their own feelings.
America in the 1960’s wasn’t a safe place for homosexuals after all, and if society can’t accept them, how can they accept themselves?
That emotional struggle makes this book so heart-wrenching, because both men know their love for each other is real.
I wish I knew how to quit you.” Maybe this story hits so much harder because the books I read earlier featured happy LGBT-characters.
Her words moved me, plain and simple.Regardless of how many times I’ve seen the film adaptation, reading about Ennis and Jack’s tragic love still knocked the wind out of me, much like it did the very first time I experienced their story on screen.
The good news is the film is practically a scene for scene depiction of what is written here, which is such a rare occurrence where adaptations are concerned.
Although tragic in nature, I still adored this story and I definitely understand the praise and accolades this award-winning tale has received over the years.
Nobody could give me an acceptable answer as to why it was wrong but I was afraid to question things so I just went with it.
Looking back, this film was the first thing to really open my eyes to what it was like to be gay.
I'm always impressed when an author can pack so much into a short story without hindering any other element.
I really enjoyed it and I would love to read more stories like this one.I was unsure about the writing style at the start but when I got into it, I really liked it.
More of a novella than a short story. Can be read here:https://www.google.co.in/amp/www.newy...
I read this in the collection Close Range: Brokeback Mountain and Other stories, which I reviewed HERE.I knew this exquisite story well from the film, and the two are very similar.
the silent embrace satisfying some shared and sexless hunger."It happens to concern homosexual love between cowboys, starting in the 1960s, but it could just as easily be any taboo relationship.The harsh beauty of the mountains, coupled with love and longing, reminded me a little of Cold Mountain, which I reviewed HERE.
I'm not even going to talk about countries outside the US, both for reasons of US-centricity and, really, if the biggest imperial force of contemporary times starts putting socioeconomic pressure on the source of those homophobic delegations fucking around on their passports, some good may come of it.The book?
The book is wary, self-sufficient, sweet (mind, I wouldn't recommend using it as a guide to safe sex of the sort it contains), and knows that particular future of blood and vice and quarantine is to be expected.
***NO SPOILERS***“Gay cowboy love story” may be how it’s often summed up, but that’s flippant.
This is a humble story, tightly focused almost exclusively on young Wyoming cowboys Ennis and Jack as they spend a summer working together on Brokeback Mountain.
What’s most powerful about Brokeback Mountain is the frightening reality facing these two, that they would be in danger if together, not just frowned upon and harassed:Jack, I don’t want a be like them guys you see around sometimes.
Brokeback Mountain is a story she constructed around a reality; there’s a sincerity to what happens in these pages.
This novel is surprisingly short . . . which makes it difficult to rate the book unbiasedly :-/ I found myself replaying the (exceptional) movie in my mind the entire time. . . . . . . . . . . Now please excuse my while I imagine this scene over and over again ..#neednewovaries
I adore the movie, but I have never considered to read a book.
I think I just was afraid to read it.
My first surprise was the length of the novel.
(And audio book of 1 hr and 4 mins?!)My second surprise was...my naivety.
I thought, because I KNEW the story, I COULD read it, without being emotionally a mess.
And I still have no idea if my emotional response could be explained by a beautiful and unique prose of Annie Proulx or an outstanding narration of Campbell Scott or the vivid images of one of my favorite movies that I won't be able to forget...or maybe ALL of these together...
I find that reading a book, I really concentrate on it, nothing else around me exists, I enter the world of the writer, I might stop and think about what I'm reading once in a while, reread a particularly difficult or beautifully-written paragraph and even enjoy the way book is laid-out, the font, the margins, the spacing, the look of paragraphs on the page, and of course the feel of the paper (I like thick, creamy hardback book pages).
Others think of audio books in quite different ways and thoroughly enjoy them.
This story is every bit as compelling, heart wrenching and beautiful as everyone claims. A true masterpiece of short fiction. Update 8/10/16My mind is still reeling with thoughts of Ennis and Jack; the story was simply intimate and heart breaking. It's amazing how much power and weight words can carry with them. Works like Ethan Frome by Edith Wharton and "Brokeback Mountain" by Annie Proulx have taught me that it's about quality, not quantity. Frankly, any author that can move me to tears in less than 100 pages is a supreme writer and artist.
Maybe a 3.5? This was just far too rushed to get the emotional impact of the story.
This is a very short story, but it works at this length.
I was surprised that on page 14, in the space of a single sentence, the relationship between Ennis and Jack goes from co-workers to lovers.
Jack needed that companionship and understanding and acceptance - and he couldn't get it unconditionally from Ennis.
The scene at Jack's parents' house was rough, because I can imagine Ennis understanding the depth of Jack's feelings for the first time, maybe, and being unable to change how things turned out would have to be hard.
I'm surprised how much I liked this book.
I enjoyed reading the short story two weeks ago and finally had the opportunity to see the movie.
I was concerned about the film staying true to the short story in terms of characterization and atmosphere.
I honestly feel that I got a better understanding of the story by watching the film because so much is expressed visually—panoramic, mountainous and remote natural setting, and in human eye contact and body language; this is especially true with the intense, wistful facial expressions of actor Heath Ledger playing Ennis.
In text and film, the isolated mountainous backdrop beautifully corresponds with the men’s tortured relationship.
3 stars (:Its really impressive how some authors could write a whole story in just a few pages..Unfortunately, I have seen some spoilers before reading the book and knew the ending, but it still affected me :( ..Eventhough I had some serious problems with this book, I liked it :D..I havent seen the movie, but I have a feeling that if I do, I will like it more than the book :)..Sorry..
Why did I think this would be a good choice for my morning commute? Sweet baby Jesus! This was everything I remembered the movie to be and somehow more of a punch to the gut. I'm perpetually amazed at how a good writer can limn a whole lifetime of deeds and emotions in a few choice words. Annie Proulx is that kind of writer. As a bonus Campbell Scott suffuses life into the characters of Ennis & Jack to point of making your heart bleed, reminding us he's a great actor. When Ennis says  little
Why did I think this would be a good choice for my morning commute?
Sweet baby Jesus!
I'm perpetually amazed at how a good writer can limn a whole lifetime of deeds and emotions in a few choice words.
Annie Proulx is that kind of writer.
As a bonus Campbell Scott suffuses life into the characters of Ennis & Jack to point of making your heart bleed, reminding us he's a great actor.
When Ennis says 
It overshadows sheafs of 'I love yous' in other stories.
It is however a love story.
-----Jack and Ennis....they love so hard.
(view spoiler)[I hated Jack's dad, what a mother fuc*king prick.
Jack and his last argument with Ennis proved that he felt he needed to solve the problem of being apart and so much in love.
So Jack wanted Ennis to come help on the ranch and he told his Dad he was leaving his wife.
❤️ This was a bittersweet extremely sad story, beautiful and powerful , it tore my heart to shreds and will most likely stay with me FOREVER.
was a POWERFUL UNFORGETABLE LOVE STORY THAT NEEDED TO BE SAID....ENDING THAT IS WAS AND ALL.
(hide spoiler)] THE LOVE STORY AS A WHOLE.
This is a short story, sixty four pages, but Annie Proulx crafted a heck of a story in sixty four pages.
The same with the setting, the back ranges of rugged Wyoming and the small cowboy towns, place you right in the middle of Ennis and Jack's existence.
Even though they are both married with children, nothing is quite right in their lives, until that summer herding on Brokeback Mountain when everything changed.
I've now read The Shipping News and Brokeback Mountain, and I'm looking for the next thing to read from Annie Proulx.
This short story is about the choices we make, and the consequences we have to live with.I haven't watched 'Brokeback Mountain', though I've been meaning to for years now.
I'm not a big movie-watcher, so it always gets pushed back.
But I am a big reader, so I thought I might as well read the short story that inspired the movie.Ennis and Jack's romance isn't pretty.
The two are mean to each other, and to the women they married.
The inevitable end was gut-wrenching.If you're looking for a quick dose of angst, 'Brokeback Mountain' is a good bet.
Sometimes words come together in ways that twist knives you didn't know you still had in your gut.Proulx achieves this with a stark economy (tautology almost, but I wanted both words) that leaves you both breathless and on the verge of hyperventilation.It's been long since I had such a visceral reaction to the written word.I wanted it to last longer. And at the same time, I can't see how it could have.Exquisite!
The movie was beautifully shot, with strong performance from Heath Ledger as Ennis del Mar and Jake Gyllenhaal as Jack Twist.
The breathtaking scenery of Wyoming, especially of Brokeback Mountain, and those chubby, cutie sheep add so much poetry to a truthful but forbidden love story.I must admit, when I read the story, I really didn’t know how director Ang Lee could transform 55 pages of words into an Oscar-nominated 2-hour-long movie that brought tears to my eyes.
(I have seen the movie and didn't like that either.) This is the story of two young men in the west in the sixties who have a love affair while tending sheep one summer.
When Ann Bannon wrote the Beebo Brinker chronicles in the late fifties there was one simple rule for gay literature, no matter what good things happen during the book it's got to end badly.
Beebo Brinker, Jiovanni's Room, The Well of loneliness...Do we really need another story about how it sucks to be gay and it will, of course, end badly?
This story of Ennis and Jack, two cowboys, who fall in love, is gut-wrenching and a sure punch in the face to all the homophobes and society in general.
The dilemma that these lovers face, hasn't changed a bit since the story was written in 1997.
Coming back to the story, I am still amazed at the fact that Proulx has managed such a depth, not once losing the flow of the characters.
I sure am going to look forward to know more works of the author.
If you have suggestions of some other works of the author or some other similar stories, do feel free to recommend?
