https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568645.Cross_My_Heart_and_Hope_to_Spy
I can’t stop thinking about this series.It’s so addictive I’m truly scared I’m not going to be able to ever forget it and I have this feeling that it’s ruining the ‘espionage’ YA genre for me, because I don’t think I’ll ever find a book/series of that genre as good as this one.But you know what?
I can say this, even though this is only the second book, since this is a reread for me: The Gallagher Girls is in my top 10 favourite series of all time.The narration, let me tell you, is one of the things you’ll like most.
I’ve only got twenty minutes, and if I’m late, he’ll kill me.” (Not a lie, but maybe an exaggeration—I hoped.)	“How do you know?”	“Because he said, ‘Meet me at the ruby slipper exhibit.’”	“No.” The boy was smiling, shaking his head.
You’re not wearing a watch.”	“My friend just told me.” The lie was smooth and easy, and I was a little bit proud of it, happy that I didn’t have to think about how in forty-five seconds, this boy had noticed something that Josh hadn’t seen in four months.
some spy related ish so keep that in mindBut hey, I was actually ENGAGED in this book, even if it was for 55 seconds but that’s a step up from the first book which was a complete and utter tragedy Still lots of tropes like the beautifully, quirky, and hilarious MC that thinks shes so plain and boring ((which spoiler, she is)) and yet she somehow dazzles all the boys ???
REREAD: July 26, 2015It will never be the same. I'm bumping up the rating to 4 stars.Initial read: January 21, 2015Rating: 3.8 starsOne thing you should know about me is, I have a short attention span. I can't never get anything done without chirping a couple of nonsensical chores between my reading. I was pleasantly surprised to find myself finishing Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy in one day. Its genuinely short, but still my effort deserved to be applauded.Verdict: I'm not in love with this series yet, but so far its promising.
I read Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy's prequel—I’d Tell You I Love You But Then I’d Have to Kill You—last July at my mother's recommendation.
The hijinks of high school sophomore Cammie Morgan and her best friends at an all-girl spy school are delightfully fun.
And I also enjoyed the romance (or was it just a cover) between Cammie and another teen spy, Zach.This is not to say the book is perfect.
book #6 completed for booktubeathon 2018!the epilogue. THE. EPILOGUE. boooiiii let me tell you i am loving this series so far. the characters are great. the spy school setting is great. I JUST...YES MORE PLS THX.
Why despite having read this for the first time five years ago, I still push it up to the top of my favorite books list all the time.
From Bex with her kick-butt attitude and fierce loyalty, to Liz with her sweet and optimistic outlook that never fails to make me smile, to Macey and her much-needed boy translations and her grounded cool, they're the best friends a girl could ask for.
(But then again, I may have been slightly irritated and frustrated by him at first when I read it before.) He's charming, handsome, and for Cammie, the girl who is still figuring out the mystery of boys, confusing.
Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy is the second book in Ally Carter's Gallagher Girl series.
It is just as cute and well-written as the first book.It's a new semester at Cammie's spy school.
Soon, it's up to Cammie and her genius friends to save the school.In my opinion, some parts of this story are predictable, but the storyline is cute, so I read it anyway.
The good news is, Gallagher Girls is not going to be limited to a two-book series.This is a quick and light read.
Before I start, I have to start by saying something extremely vital to my review: JOSH WHO?Agter reading this book, I am infinitesimaly glad that Cammie isn't with Josh.
Cammie, as usual, has to deal with being a spy in training as well as just being a teenage girl.
Reading her inner turmoil made me realize that although she speaks fourteen different languages and can probably kill you with nothing but a stapler, she is just a teenage girl.
It was fun seeing all the different new characters presented, as well as new situations where the "spy" aspect of the story could be developed.
pls read these books they're SO much fun!
asdfghjkl; these books are so fun! I can't stop grinning and while this didn't get any tears out of me, I enjoyed it a lot! especially the parts where a certain boy was involved (✿◠‿◠) I'm in such a reading groove with this series that I don't have that much time to update here while continuously laughing and turning the pages as soon as possible, but I'm already [almost] halfway done with book 3 and it's really good, too!
Tbh, the reason the rating is “so low” is that boy Zach. I  hate  those kind of boys (I know he is a fictional one here but still) who force themselves on girls. I just can’t stand them and I won’t be sorry for that. I loved the girlpower but sadly I found the plot a little weak. You should maybe consider that I’m a bit “too old” for this series, in general, but it was a cute, easy and fast-paced read! I’ll definitely continue to read about the girls!
Fifteen boys from, dare I say it, another Institution come to the Gallagher Academy so that when the time came, both girls and boys would be able to learn how to tell when someone is lying, how the other genders acts and how to trust them and how to know who and when to trust.
To me, the key word I got out of this novel is: Trust, (and awkwardness, but that's another story).When Cammie has to learn to trust these boys, she finds this one boy quite interesting, (and pretty cute).
I wish the books were a little longer, so we'd get to explore their relationships and personalities more, but I'm just happy there are so many great girls working together.The boys: Meh. Zach was okay, I guess, but I'm not too impressed.
But he wasn't as bad as he could have been either.Also, I'm a little surprised that these girls aren't taught how to interact with civilians better, especially boys.I really liked the plot in this one though, it was much more complex and full of intrigue, and unlike the last one I couldn't figure it out.
I thought this was really good, regardless of the slim plot. I liked the characters a lot, especially the new ones, and I wish the third book was coming out tomorrow instead of in June. Sigh. But I laughed almost the whole time, especially about some of the situations and things Cammie finds herself in. I hope Zach's in the next book a lot, because I feel like Carter raised a lot of questions about him but then didn't answer any of them (well, except if he liked Cammie or not).
actual rating: 4.5 starsfUCKING ZACHARY GOODEWHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO ME ERITHAT FUCKING SMOOTH MOTHERFUCKER I HATE HIM
These books are seriously so much fun. Sure they might be kind of predictable, but the characters are amazing and the storyline is fantastic. This is the epitome of a feel good series. I can’t wait to read them all.
HI, ZACH.The fact that there are boys - and they're better than the Gallagher Girls - will never cease to amuse me. This book is hilarious. Predictable, but hilarious. It's that perfect moment in the series where school and interpersonal dynamics are still their biggest concerns. Actually, the ending might be a retread, and Abby hasn't shown up yet (which is weird; in my memory she takes up more space), so it's not too perfect. But it's charming. And the new epilogue is pretty fabulous.
I have had this book forever, but decided to finally pick it up because I recently read Heist Society by Ally Carter, and I've also been on a bit of the spy books kick lately.
It's been a very long time since I read the first novel in the series, but that was okay because this can definitely be red and standalone.
Ally Carter's books are at the top of my list for young adults spy novels.
The plot was good, but a lot of the book was filler and character development material.
I'm planning on continuing the series and reading some other books by Ally Carter.
Cross My Heart and Hope To Spy was my favourite Gallagher Girls book so far.
When they go into the town, Roseville, Virginia, Cammie runs into her ex-boyfriend, her first kiss, her first crush, her first boyfriend, Josh and his best and longest friend, DeeDee. Then, Zach comes to the rescue and grabs Cammies hand, yes, GRABS HER HAND!
After a code black, Cammie is even MORE suspicious of Zach..
At the end, Cammie and Zach have 'a moment'!!I cannot wait until Monday so my friend can give me the next book !
I love spy stuff. And she makes me want to become a Gallagher Girl so bad. I will always love Zach with all my heart he is top spy man ever!❤ I love how she ends her books! Always at the end of the school year. Where the possibilities are endless. Liz and Bec are the best characters as well as best friends for Cammie. Oh and Macey too they are a mix of a kind such different personalitys yet they work together so well! I wish her books were longer! I finished this one fast. It's been awhile that
I will always love Zach with all my heart he is top spy man ever!❤️ I love how she ends her books!
Always at the end of the school year.
I wish her books were longer!
It's been awhile that I haven't read a book that's had at least 450 pages in it and this one was half of that, but still wonderful (which is amazing).
I just wished we could of learned more about Bex, Liz, and Macey's life and thoughts in this one but she does that in the future books so I'm ok:)I definitely recommend this series!
This book wasn't as good as it's predecessor, "I'd Tell You I Love You, but then I'd Have to Kill You".
Cam went from being a cool spy girl who happened to be interested in a boy, to a confused teenage girl, who happened to be a spy.
Most of the book was her trying to deal with Zach, another spy, and then not taking the route I wanted her to, which involved a good beating on Zach's part.
My goodness, that guy was annoying!
Basically just said,"we figured out that you girls, although can speak 32 foriegn languages fluenently, really don't know how to interact with boys." No duh.
Hmmm.
Much better than the first, but some parts felt lacking.
I would have to reread the action scenes to try to understand what was going on, but still felt lost at some points.
No cussing like the first book (there was a 'freaking', though), but there was still a romance--just with a different guy.
A kiss and an almost kiss, but not really any sexual hints.
It felt pretty short compared to the first one as well.Overall, I will be trying the third book out, but at this point, am not sure about the rest of the series.
I thought my heart was going to break, but then it starts healing because of the humor in this book. "I thought you liked your interludes secret and mysterious. Your boyfriends private.""We weren't having an interlude. And you are not my boyfriend.""Yeah. I noticed.""What's that supposed to mean?""You're the Gallagher Girl. You figure it out."
I really enjoyed this book. I like how Zach is so clever and how he is great at what he does. I feel bad for Cammie since she was tricked. I feel bad for all the girls because they didn't know that there was a school for boys. I like how she and Zach get together and how Zach kisses her before leaving.
“A Gallagher Girl's real grades don’t come in pass or fail—they're measured in life or death.”  Zachary is such a bitch. I love him.
Para já a autora introduziu outra escola de espiões, desta vez uma escola masculina e a rivalidade entre o colégio Gallagher e Blacktorne foi muito engraçada de acompanhar.
Por tudo se passar dentro das paredes de um colégio interno, a série tem toda uma vibe de Harry Potter, apenas a diferença que aqui não há feitiçaria mas muitos mistérios, missões e explosões!
É aqui também que entra o par amoroso da Cammie, o Zach.
Gostei imenso desta introdução e de como foi feita.
O melhor é que o próprio Zach vai ser uma personagem tão importante nos livros seguintes como a Cammie.
I loved the second book of the gallagher girls series.
At first, it starts off slow but soon get more interesting.
The second book is about how Cammie and her friends find out their school is hosting boys from another spy school.
Soon the school worries that a security breach could tell the world the true status of the school while incident is being blamed on Cammie.
Cammie needs to learn who is on her side, who she can trust, and how she is going to save the school's reputation.
I would definitely recommend this and book and series to read.
THAT WAS SO MUCH FUN.I WANT MORE.GIVE ME MORE ZACH AND CAMMIE AND THE REST OF THE GANG.review to come when i get back from pretending i'm a spy. 4.75/5
This book was pretty good. Spies and such. I knew the ending before it came, and there was too much romance (again), but it was pretty good! (I don't remember in cursing in this one.)
