https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178528.Nigger
I read this book years ago.
It was given to me by a young black man who was working to change the attitudes of white people.
However, I was a young white woman and he knocked on my apartment door and asked to come in and talk about Civil Rights.
We sat on the couch in the living room and he told me about the Civil Rights movement.
When we finished talking, he gave me the book "Nigger" so that I could read it.
Think of the courage it took to knock on a door and talk to a white girl.
They weren’t big enough to threaten the whole country." He felt confident that this ideal incorporated justice in itself so that one could say, “Thank the United States Supreme Court,” instead of “Thank God.” And he was confident of practical help, "...the police [in Birmingham, Alabama] were on their best behavior that day because there were FBI agents in town with movie cameras."No longer.
Little chance for civil rights protection there.If it were only the racist Republican political establishment that were the problem, there might be hope of the sort Gregory drew from his ideal.
I started to wonder how so many misfortunes could befall one person.Kids made fun of Gregory because he had an absentee father, and his family was on welfare.
Gregory was left to try and support the family with whatever money he could make from whatever jobs he could find.
He never did tell his mother about the burdens he carried because, in addition to helping her support the family, he felt he had to protect her.Things started to turn around once he got to high school.
I gave it back to my father and I think that's the first time I can describe a grown man as giddy :)
I knew very little about Dick Gregory before I read this book.
I knew his name, that he was a comedian, and not much else.
His autobiography, aptly named I add, provides incredible insight into the Civil Rights movement.
I read this book before the 2004 elections and I felt so proud.
While at times Gregory's sexism is irritating, to say the least, this book is worth your time.
Written in 1964 at the height of the struggle, Nigger provides rare insight.
What a great book to read as President-elect Obama prepares to take office.
This book is as relevant today as it ever was. People say that racism isn't such an issue anymore, not in a modern, civilized North America, but it's all around us. It's more subtle than it used to be mind you, but it's still a huge problem, something that Nigger tries to raise awareness of. This incredible but often harrowing book will change every reader's life, and make you really look at history and the world around you in a totally different way.
“Heaven just got funnier, RIP” #DickGregory DL HughleyGregory, dead at 84, 8/19/17, was a ground-breaking comedian and a civil rights activist."Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
I know the South very well.
He dedicated the book to his mother:"Dear Momma--Wherever you are, if you ever hear the word ‘nigger’ again, remember, they are advertising my book.""In America, with all of its evils and faults, you can still reach through the forest and see the sun, but we don't know yet whether that sun is rising or setting for our country."CNN Obit:http://www.cnn.com/2017/08/19/enterta...Some stand-up Dick Gregory from 1974:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p3jtu...
With snippets from his life, Gregory paints a picture to show us the cruel ways poverty and racism affect those in their grip--physically of course, but also emotionally, and spiritually.His honesty is staggering--in the personal stories of his own efforts to survive with his dignity intact--and in portraying his own weaknesses and failings, by-products of the cancer of hatred and racism he grew up with.
And he did make a difference--during his life time, and now as people continue to read his words.
Reading his autobiography has taught me more about life, about history, and about the human condition, subjects every author needs to major in.
I have taught this book several times to classes of ninth graders, and the depth with which it speaks to young, poor, Black students is startling.
From high school track star to successful local comedian to civil rights activist to conflicted family man, the many lifetimes this man has led, along with the insights they provide for the human condition, allow more discussion points than one class can be expected to cover.
This book is a great companion to studies of the civil rights movements of the 1960s, in that Gregory mentions some of the lesser known figures of the era and recounts the personal experiences of protesting and being arrested for it.
Lillian Smith stayed through the second show and the Sunday evening show and she kept staring at me like no one in Willard, Ohio, would ever believe she had actually talked to this great man.
I just talked to her, and told her I'd call her back soon and we'd have lunch."(!!!)On meeting a convict after a show he plays in a prison:"He was an artist, and he asked me if I'd like to see his work.
He had drawings of women, of what he thought women looked like.
From surviving a Dickensian childhood to psyching out a knuckle-dragging racist, there's nothing in Gregory's autobiography that isn't gripping, heartbreaking and wise.
i've always been vaguely aware of dick gregory as a comic, but a few weeks ago i watched this documentary called one bright shining moment about george mcgovern's 1972 run for president, and dick gregory's appearances in it were just amazing; the intelligence and humor and anger and humanity coming off that guy were incredible.
so i went out and bought this book, an autobiography that takes him from his dirt-poor fatherless childhood shining shoes and stealing things up through high school and college, where he became a track star, to his first gig as an integrated-audiences comic at the playboy club, to his time as a leader in the civil rights movement.
In the third section, Gregory becomes involved in the Civil Rights Movement and offers a fascinating first-person perspective on famous historical events.
Nigger." Gregory's courageous participation in the nonviolent resistance movement was one way of changing that system; the title of his book, in a different way, was another.
I wonder, though, if that title is part of the reason the book is not widely read in schools.
I'd be more likely to use it if it didn't have that title—it would otherwise be a pretty interesting book to use as an English teacher in St. Louis.
One of the best books I have read in a while. I felt like I was right there with him experiencing the same events. Definitely worth reading!!
Probably one of the best autobiographies I have ever read. I've lost count how many times I've read it.
"Dear Momma---Wherever you are, if ever you hear the word "nigger" again, remember they are advertising my book"
This Book Is One Of The Best I've Ever Read. You Will Be Entertained And Hooked All Throughout The Book.
We know it's a book.
Now if I sat here and called it a bicycle, I have called it something it is not.
So where does the bicycle exist?
Gregory is still alive and participating in activism.
Although it was written over fifty years ago, his sentiments still ring true today."In America, with all of its evils and faults, you can still reach through the forest and see the sun.
but we don't know yet whether that sun is rising or setting for our country." -DG
I heard of Dick Gregory, but never knew his story.
Whether that was based on the color of his skin, his family financial situation, the lack of education or pure hate that existed in America at the time.
I found it sad and exciting to read about all Gregory overcame to have a life of purpose and impact.
This book shows how he was always set apart in his life (sports or entertainment) and played an instrumental role in a movement toward race equality, America, desperately needed.

Beautifully written. Full of gripping quotes and descriptive stories. Gregory's autobiography made me want to cry at times, it made me afraid, and it even made me celebrate Gregory's accomplishments with him. This is definitely one of the best works I've read this year and I recommend it to everyone interested in American history. Gregory is a smart aleck, a trouble maker, a hero, an educator, and a motivator. I learned a lot from this book and I truly believe it will stick with me for a very long time. Nigger is an excellent read.1
if i can be affected by this like i have been and i consider myself an old grizzled veteran of these types of books, i can't imagine the effect it would have on a novice.
When I found out he had written a few autobiographies, I decided to purchase one.Although everyone knows the dark past of American history, it's difficult to really take it personally if you were born in the 90's, after the civil rights movement.
Reading about Dick Gregory's life growing up as a poor black kid in the south put a face and experiences to that time, rather than just accepting what's in a history book or what is general knowledge.
Reading it just had me thinking there was no way he could come out on top.
Gregory writes often about a feeling that comes over him that he calls "the Monster." It is the feeling that motivates him to win track meets, to do stand up comedy and to demonstrate for civil rights with the SCLC and SNCC, but it is also the feeling that makes him lie and hustle and do other strange things.
I thought there would be more early '60s sophisticated stand-up and more detail about the civil rights struggle and people like Medgar Evers but this book is maybe more meant as an explanation to the fans of that period of how a guy who was succeeding could get so wrapped up in activism.
I read this 20 years ago.
I still don't know anything about the man, except for what is written in this book.
But man, this is a powerful read.
This one book changed the way I view the civil rights movement, American society (past and present), and in part, humanity as a whole.
Humorous, dramatic, inspiring, and all around just straight powerful.
One of the Important books in my library.
One of the books that expanded my worldview, opened my mind to new ideas, and showed me how good humor, tenacity, self motivation, and a good ideal, can change the world we live in.
اتوبیوگرافی دیک گریگوری، کمدین و فعال مدنی که به خاطر سیاهپوست بودنش رنجهای بسیاری رو تحمل کرد، با تبعیض نژادی جنگید چه با روحیه ی طنز قوی ای که داشت، چه بطور جدی.این کتاب ارزشش رو داره بارها خوانده باشه.
ممنونم از عالیه عزیز که این کتاب رو به من پیشنهاد کرد و کتاب خودش رو تا این مدت طولانی پیش من امانت گذاشت تا بخونمش.امتیاز پنج ستاره ای که دادم متعلق به دیک گریگوری و انتخاب مترجم بود.
Amazingly written story of Dick Gregory's life. I recommend this to anyone and everyone who wants to be an ally, & wants to continue to recognize/confront their own privilege. Gregory has a way with words, that kept me from putting this book down when reading it the first time. I will continue to go back & re-read this book in the future.
Nigger is an autobiography about the comedian Dick Gregory detailing the struggle he faced growing up being a black man black in America, his rise to fame and his involvement in the Civil Rights Movement that help better the nation as we know it.
Excellent account by Robert Lipsyte (ghost) of a truly comic comedian -- who is always open and honest. Without Cosby pretentiousness.
I guess the system didn’t want her to get off relief, the way it kept sending social workers around to make sure Momma wasn’t trying to make things better." I also love how his mom, when Gregory starts to find some success that goes slightly to his head, brings him right back down to earth:I’d come running home, telling her the coach said I needed a special kind of food for my training.
In section three Gregory is now a father, and successful but begins to feel that he needs to be on the frontlines of what is happening in America.
>Broken into three parts, Gregory begins at the beginning, his life as a 'broke, not poor kid' on relief with an absent father and a mother who works herself to her death to keep her children well.
rom a kid on relief, to a track star, to a famous comedian - Dick Gregory dreamed big.
We'll all be free then, free from a system that makes a man less than a man, that teaches hate and fear and ignorance." I didn't know Dick Gregory, prior to picking up this book and reading it.
In the end, I think, this is probably one of the most important books I'll have read this year.
