https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782047.Lord_Peter
But most of the stories are delightful - "The Fascinating Problem of Uncle Meleager's Will" rests on the characters having to solve a crossword puzzle, and "The Learned Adventure of the Dragon's Head" features Lord Peter solving a mystery with his nephew, and it's just as adorable and charming as it sounds.
(granted, this story does feature scenes where the Wimseys are super rude to a female houseguest, but since she's the 1930's equivalent of an anti-vaccer hippie mom, their disdain is earned) Also there's a mystery that opens with the birth of Peter and Harriet's first child, which I will proceed to quote almost in its entirety because that's how well it demonstrates why I love these two:"'Good lord!' said his lordship.
Just fun.
I had read the first three Lord Peter novels and fallen in love, not only with the writing and wit (Dorothy Sayers has an incredible vocabulary, rarely seen elsewhere, her Oxford education in languages shows in all sorts of glory) which grew with each new book, but also with the depiction of life and crime-solving in 1920's England, and of course, the goofy and lovably brilliant Lord Peter.This book was sitting on my daughter's bookshelf, and, having borrowed it I was more than delighted to realize it included the complete stories in Lord Peter Views the Body- book four in the series (these are the first twelve stories in this edition)....and more.
Well, I guess I know what series I'm launching myself headlong into now. Truly - dare I say it - deuced good stuff.
Short stories that get straight to the point. I like it.
Read The Unprincipled Practical Joker for October's Suspense Challenge for my first Dorothy Sayer. Will be reading more for November's "Thanksgiving" titles Challenge.Letter "A" - Absolutely ElsewhereLetter "I" - In the Teeth of the EvidenceLetter "N" - Necklace of Pearls , a Christmas read completed for the Christmas Spirit Readathon 2016
The way the "little pool of crimson fire like a miniature sunset," mentioned so casually in a short story in 1928, turns up again nearly ten years later on Harriet Vane's finger in Busman's Honeymoon.
This is more particularly the case if you are a novelist by profession, and if, moreover, your idea of a hppy holiday is to dispose as completely and briskly as possible of children, book, servants, and visitor, so as to snatch all the available moments for playing the fool with a congenial, but admittedly distracting, husband."I also find that I am mind-melding Harriet Vane with Anne Morrow Lindbergh in this story, which amuses me, since AML has replaced HV as my role model over the last ten years (most of my role models have been fictional).
***This massive collection of Sayers' complete output of Wimsey short stories is well-worth the investment of money and time.
Includes my all-time favorite Sayers story, “The adventurous exploit of the cave of Ali Baba”, and several others are quite stunning, especially the superbly paced “The unsolved puzzle of the man with no face”.
— Wimsey as a “regular guy” burglar, one of the best storiesnote: on checking my notes I find there should be 21 stories listed here, and I need to reread several ofthem and add them to the above list.
I met Lord Peter Wimsey in the "Abominable Affair of the Copper Fingers." I was, I think, 12, and the story scared me stiff.
It was a treat to reread this collection of all of the Wimsey short stories, including "Copper Fingers," which is still intensely creepy.
The quality is somewhat uneven but even the lesser stories are wonderfully inventive, and there are several gems here.
As an extra treat, this collection contains Lord Peter's last documented appearance in "Talboys," which gives the reader a sweetly humorous glimpse at the detective's life after his creator retired him.
A fat volume of detective stories from the masterful hand of Dorthy L.
These range from the very slight couple of pages to some that run 20-30 pages.
Most are rather more down to earth--a couple can even be anticipated by the reader.
All feature the dapper Lord Peter Wimsey, a member of the British aristocracy (often attended by his man Bunter), who never seems to be ruffled by any situation and who always figures out the crime.
Harriet Vane, Wimsey's lady love and later wife, appears in a couple of stories.
Spread it out a bit so you'll have time to savor each story.
Apologies to Dorothy Sayers, but this was a great bedtime read.
This one's an old friend, and comfort reading. All the short stories in chronological order. If you haven't met Lord Peter Death Bredon Wimsey before, though, I'd really recommend starting with the first novel, Whose Body?
I hadn't read these stories in many years so while they seemed familiar, I really didn't remember all of the "who dunnit" or why they did it details so it was almost like getting a bonus dose of Lord Peter. If you like cosy mysteries from the genre's golden age, then you will enjoy these.
However, the novel is a good introduction to the classic crime-solving aristocrat, Lord Peter Whimsey, and it's a great deal of fun to read.Stories that I particularly enjoyed were:"The Fascinating Problem of Uncle Meleager's Will" which revolves around a will with a very unusual clause, and spooky legends in an English village."The Piscatorial Farce of the Stolen Stomach" another unusual will and an even more unusual theft."The Adventurous Exploit of the Cave of Ali Baba" in which Lord Peter fakes his death and goes undercover to catch a notorious ring of thieves and robbers."The Image in the Mirror" a fascinating story of "Gothic horror" that, in the end, has a perfectly logical explanation anyway.
This edition provided a nice slap in the face for a substitute--a Wimsey parody (view spoiler)[that showed Lord Peter shouting heil hitler over the phone and solving the mystery of a dead parrot (hide spoiler)].
The most I saw of Vane during this edition was directly after she gives birth, which was a bit of a shocker to say the least, since the last time I saw that dame, she was fending off Lord Peter with a volley of prim "Certainly nots," real cold and bitchy-like.
She comes very close to good character development, but not close enough because, after all, the primary focus is the mystery story.
I read the Peter Wimsey novels less for the mysteries --- which are usually very good --- but for the writing, which is uniformly excellent.
There was an appreciation of Sayers by another favorite author of mine, Carolyn Heilbrun (by the way, if you aren't familiar with the Kate Fansler mysteries that Heilbrun wrote as "Amanda Cross", stop reading this review right now and go out and get them.
The only problem with the appreciation is that Heilbrun wrote it in the 1960s, when very little of Sayers' surprising personal life was known.
It somewhat mars the enjoyment of the stories, but not enough to stop reading Sayers' beautiful prose.
This book is a collection of 20 of Dorothy L Sayers' short stories featuring Lord Peter Wimsey.
I recently finished all 4 of Jill Patton Walsh's Lord Peter books and loved them, and decided it was time to go back to the originals.
I am not normally a fan of short mysteries, as they usually are either lacking the characterization that I like, or the solution is too facile, but Ms Sayers was a master at her craft, and these are all really well done.
I'm also hoping that Ms Walsh writes more.
The prose is absolutely perfect. And add to that the witty, awkward, and wonderful detective who is blessed with the beak of a hawk - it is a fantastic read. As of yet, I have only read /The Nine Tailors/ from the collection of Lord Peter Wimsey novels, and it was excellent as well. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good mystery or clever prose. Sayers is a genius.
This book collects all the short stories featuring Lord Peter Wimsey. The stories individually are fine examples of the craft. The supporting cast, so important in the novels, is almost absent from most of these, except for Parker. Even Bunter appears only occasionally, and sometimes only by allusion, but in a short story, much must be sacrificed for brevity.
I've read some of her novels, but I've never read the Lord Peter Wimsey short stories. My oh my but they are good.
Got this as a first edition; sadly, couldn't help re-reading it to the extent that it's far from pristine. On the other hand, it has the look of a long-time friend, which it is.
This is a collection of all the Lord Peter Wimsey short stories.
The problem is that the main thing that makes a Lord Peter such a wonderful thing is Lord Peter, and he does not really get enough room to move around in a short story.
Some of these stories are more lighthearted than can ever be achieved in a story that involves a death.I would not suggest this collection...or any collection of short stories for an introduction to Lord Peter Wimsey.
I'm not sure which would be better.Anyway.After the first Lord Peter mystery, which I found through sheer happenstance, I went to my workplace (a library) and scoured the catalog for more--and this volume is the single mystery by Dorothy Sayers that we own.
It is, happily, a good solid book--once you're introduced to Lord Peter you've gotten the gist of his character and can enjoy these stories, written as they were throughout the years.
The draw of Lord Peter stories, for me, is Peter's whimsical character, rather than a bunch of detection--good mysteries, and I was able to guess the answer of several before the reveal, but some stories are light on the mystery.
I am so glad that I came across Dorothy Sayers' Lord Peter series, since I always enjoy a good old-fashioned mystery à la Sherlock Holmes.
In some respects I liked these short stories even more than Arthur Conan Doyles', particularly because of the humorous tint the character of Lord Peter gives even to murders at times.
Additionally, the short stories were less formulaic than other mysteries from that era in that one never knows how the story might start: Will it be from the perspective of the victim or a witness?
Overall, I can only recommend Dorothy Sayers' Lord Peter series to all fans of mysteries, Sherlock Holmes and detective novels.
To be honest I didn't read the whole of this book but it is nearly 500 pages and all I didn't finish were the bits at the end that weren't written by Dorothy L.
Sayers, plus the previously unpublished story Talboys (there was a good reason why it wasn't published - it was bad).
Sayers got tired of her creation like many other detective story writers and wanted to kill him off.
It is possible that you will get tired of him from reading so many stories about him one after the other, but I did not.
This particular version of Lord Peter is unfortunately not at all what I was expecting, and that is completely my fault.
This is just a collection of the short stories but not the complete chronological order to Lord Peter.
Dorothy Sayers' stories were very popular in her time; if I am to understand correctly, almost as popular as Sherlock Holmes himself.
It is understandably why!
He is an average man, a bit short of stature.
I would love to read more of Lord Peter.
But this time I'll try to do my research and find the correct volume to start the series in order!
It is also hard to ignore the use of the "N" word, no matter how current it was at the time the story was written.
Some of the stories have a good deal of charm, even when the plots are a little creaky--no true Sayers fan should miss "The Haunted Policeman" and "Talboys," tales of Lord Peter and Harriet's family.
(Even here, it's hard to know how to deal with these two otherwise charming pieces--one is uses the "N" word, the other promotes thoughtful caning of children.) A mixed bag mystery-wise, but very interesting.
These stories are pretty precious, and Lord Peter would really benefit from a personality and maybe a cocaine addiction. High marks for the case titles, though ("The Piscatorial Farce of the Stolen Stomach") as well as this delightful line, which I want to include in my holiday cards next December: "Sir Septimus Shale...allowed his young and fashionable wife to fill his house with diagrammatic furniture made of steel; to collect advanced artists and anti-grammatical poets; to believe in cocktails and relativity and to dress as extravagantly as she pleased; but he did insist on an old-fashioned Christmas."
Riveting, brilliantly-written mysteries. Some are creepy and gruesome, another portion are lightheartedly and whimsical, and two are the obligatory CLUE-style whodunnit. Lord Peter himself has more lovable quirks than a Sherlock Holmes (such as the ubiquitous mauve silk pajamas), but is certainly just as shrewd. As his name, he seems to Peter-Pan like, have never grown up (except he swears a bit too much) and his childish curiosity and delight in life is what gives sparkle to even the darkest of the mystery tales.
This book was a gift. I’d never read any books from the Lord Peter series so it was harder to know the characters and other important characters. Short stories as a whole are a bit of miss for me and this book had some really great stories and some not so great. I think I’ll have to revisit this book if I read a few of the main novels. By then a move of the characters will exist and I’d feel better connected to the story and writing style.
