https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16249.Angry_Housewives_Eating_Bon_Bons
the title of this book had thrown me off as just fluff untill it was recommended to me by my daughter.
Perhaps it is because the 4 women in the club loved and struggled through the same time periods I did.
Like some of the other reviewers I too am a sucker for books about friendships and how much those friendships can mean in terms of love and support through difficult times.
I would recommend this especially to women over 50.
There is still a lot of stories that could develop from this wonderful beginning-especially about the next generation of these "housewives".
Wink.) and you enjoy reading books that cast every bad character as a conservative/Republican/Baptist preacher (did I mention how wicked and evil Baptist preachers are?) you will love this book.
If you are a liberal Democrat and you love reading books that belittle and make fun of anyone who disagrees with you (conservatives/Republicans/Baptist preachers--those horrible preachers are evil and intolerant!) than you should enjoy this book.
(Especially if you hate those narrow-minded Baptist preachers!)If that's not enough to convince you to read this book, wait, there's more!
I related to this book in so many different ways-from being a young child in the 1970's remembering my mom's bridge clubs...all the ladies of the neighborhood eating snacks and smoking...being a mom of young kids myself now and relating to the things these housewives feel and experience, loving books and wanting to be part of something where you build true and lasting friendships, connecting with a character like Slip b/c I, too, am short and have frizzy red hair and a wonderful husband, unlike the other Angry Housewives...having 2 boys and wondering WHAT IF one of them turned out gay...would I be like Faith?
It makes me want to be part of a book club like that, too...any takers?

Some of the characters were quite moving and memorable - I think often of the wife who wrote nasty notes and pinned them up in the bun her husband forced her to wear.
However, there were too many characters and the book spanned too much time.
but it was drowned out in the bulk of it all and how the book moved too fast through time to really savor the characters.
I wish she had slowed down and just let us really get to know the characters, develop their voices in a smaller number of situations (not the extreme length of time).
I think different editing would have taken this book really far.
Knjiga možda nema klasičan uvod, zaplet, rasplet..već jednostavo pratimo živote pet žena, prijateljica i susjeda..A pratimo ih kroz sastanke njihovog kluba knjige "Opake kućanice uživaju u slatkišima".
One prolaze životne situacije kroz koje svi prolazimo tijekom godina; od prvih trudnoća, male djece, teških brakova, razvoda, odnosa sa roditeljima...tako da se jako lako poistovjetiti sa svakom od njih.
Možda me zato ova knjiga još jače dodirnula, jer prijateljstva koja pratimo u knjizi traju više od 30.god.
Bez bzira koji žanr volite, jer ova knjiga se i tako ne može ukalupiti u neki određeni žanr, Opake kućanice bi preporučila baš svakom ljubitelju dobre knjige!
The fact that "Angry Housewives" was set in a Minneapolis neighborhood near Minnehaha Park gave me high hopes.
It has a charming stone pavillion, covered with trees, has the best sledding hill in town, has a spooky, stoney, ferny descent to the creek, where you could watch the falls.
A retiring journalist once regaled us about how he covered his first murder - a woman's body was found at the bottom of the sledding hill with a dozen stab wounds in her back.
Though the women took many walks "along the creek basin," the description of setting ends there.
I read this on the recomendation of my dental hygenist.
When I finished it I passed it on to my mom who LOVED it.
I think that might be the target audience here - Women a generation or two older than me.
It's not that the book is bad - it's just kind of predictable.
I found that was true with the other Lorna Landvik book I read as well.
*sigh* Yet the writing was good enough that I never put the book down so I guess that's something.
Did I mention my mom loved it?
This is a great Book Club starter book! It really got us going and shows how people from different backgrounds can really enjoy reading the same books!
Kari was the only likeable personality, because she was simple, kind, and nurturing.
The other characters had serious personality defects!
Merit disgusted me with her habit of stuffing used tissue, q-tips, and paper in her hairdo:( That was her way of getting back at her abusive husband, who had no idea she was doing this.
I nearly puked when she saved these items and then showed them to her second husband!
She refused to be honest with herself or her friends and family.
If she could feel superior to any of her friends, then she felt better about herself!
The one thing that keeps coming back to me is that this book reminds me quite a bit of The Future Homemakers of America, except that I liked this one much better.
I'm always interested in these types of relationships, and jealous, too, that I don't have that.Anyway, will add additional notes later, but I really liked this book!
The descriptions of each of the women are so clear, I felt like I knew them -- or had maybe been in bookclub with them -- by the end of the book.
The five main characters are Faith, a southern girl who is so ashamed of her past that she invents an entirely different one; Merit, the pretty minister's daughter who is being abused by her husband; Slip, the politically active woman who, true to her nickname, is merely a slip of a woman; Kari, the older, childless widow; and Audrey, the big, beautiful sex-obsessed and, possibly, the most interesting of the Angry Housewives.
I wish I could have cared more about the characters and the outcome of the book, but there was just too much going on to find this book truly interesting.
But it all makes sense when you think about it.This books spans the '60s to the '90s, and beneath the 'Aga Saga' exterior beats a heart of history, anger, wonder, national issues making local lives miserable or better, and the general upheaval of family, friends and phobias.Vietnam, Eric Segal, Arthur Hailey, Erica Jong and all the "who?"s of my parents' generation, plus books I remember secreting to bed in the '80s to find out what all the fuss was about: they're part of what was happening here (even if it wasn't very clear...) :]Great read, and not what one might expect - I thought this was going to be a bubble-gum-for-the-brain easy bit of fluff.
I related to each woman's story and struggles and felt like I learned from them as they handled secrets being revealed, children growing up, and the challenges of life.
I appreciated how the author incorporated pieces of history and societal issues throughout the personal stories within these women's lives: a brother in Nam, an alcoholic mother, a gay son, cancer and AIDS, teenage pregnancy, and spousal abuse (and that's not all of them!).
Also, the author begins each chapter with a book the women are reading, why it was chosen, and then that chapter is told through one character's point of view.
This book begins where it ends, September 1998, with Slip in the hospital dying of Hodgkins Lymphoma, with her book clubfriends, Faith, Audrey, Kari, Merit and Grant at her bedside.
In 1968, a group of women who live in a culda sac, decide to start a book club.
They end up naming the book club "Angry House Wives Eating Bon bons" after Eric, Merit's husband, states at a party that, that is what these women in the book club do.
This is a book about friendship, and more importantly a group friendship made up of 6 very different people, who respect and accept their differences as they forge this tight book club family bond together.
In general I try not to judge books by their covers (or titles) but I assumed this one would be complete fluff, for lack of a better word.
I'm so glad that this was a selection for our book club, though, because for that purpose alone it made me appreciate the group of women I gather with monthly to discuss our latest read.Rather than fluff, what I got was the decades-long story of the lives of five women who juggle marriage, motherhood, careers, and coming to terms with the fact that not everything in life goes according to plan.
I felt connected and a part of their neighborhood book club.
This book made me appreciate my own neighborhood book club (and this book was this month's suggestion) and the therapy that comes with a group of girlfriends all sharing their stories of trials, tribulations, and guacamole (thank you to Kristin!) Freesia Court may be a world away from Manayunk (especially from the 60's-90's, which this book covers) but really, female friendship is all the same and we bond with our tribe as we complain about sleepless nights, dirty dishes, toddler tantrums, dream vacations, and "Cards Against Humanity".
I loved this book, I love my book club friends, and I love the inspired reading that will continue to trickle from this book.
you get introduced to novels you wouldn't have given a chance.While this certainly won't go down as one of my favorites, it was a very enjoyable read.
This book is about a group of similar aged women in a Minnesota town in the late 60's who decide to form a book club.
For that, I have to give the author credit for a job well done with character development.The main theme of the novel is the strength of friendship, particularly bonds between women, and how important it becomes during life's twists and turns.
This book could have been about 200 pages shorter, giving it less time to decline from my original 3 star rating to one star.
The book centered around 5 women/neighbors and followed the women’s' lives over the course of 30 years.
Those women packed an unbelievable amount of drama into those 30 years.
The author assigned every drama ever conceived to one of the five women.
Abuse - checkCheating - checkJealousy - checkPsychic Powers - checkReligious Conversion - checkDivorce - checkMarriage - checkFeuds - checkHomosexuality - checkAIDS - checkAdoption - checkDeath - checkHome Birth - checkTwins - checkVietnam - checkA Secret Past - checkCancer - checkEstranged Relationships - checkAnnoying Political Activist - checkThe only thing this book didn't include was entertainment and a timely ending.
This started out slow for me but now that I'm into the sections that flesh out the women in the book club I'm really enjoying it.I just finished the book. I liked how the characters were exposed via the Book Discussion Chapters, although at times the different writing perspective got confusing, i.e. first person narrative vs. 3rd person.At first I didn't like that the author didn't nicely wrap up the various story lines then decided it's nice to think that the characters keep going on.
By far the best book I've ever read! I can't wait to read it again! Such a beautiful story of friendship, family, love, life, and books!
4.5 starsThis book definitely had some flaws and some moments where I just rolled my eyes, but I loved how the author wrote the friendship between these ladies and how they stood by each other, fought, grew, and appreciated each other over the course of 30 years. This is a great book club book about a book club where each woman was unique and had their own struggles and I feel that there was something in each of them most could relate to.
Loved this book - I would give it 10 stars if I could. Loved all the characters (except a couple of the husbands). Wonderful story of how strong and powerful friendship can be.
Added 3/17/15. 4/18/15  - I read only the first 16 pages and bailed out. I should have realized from the title that I would not like the story. Anything about housewives usually bores me. What turned me off completely was the introduction of so many characters in the first few pages. There was no time to internalize who was who and there was very little fleshing out. In other words, there was nothing to hook me into reading more.PS - One reviewer (giving it ONE STAR) said:=======================
I thought it was very predicatable and lost interest several times, having to go back and remember what character went with what story..."https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...FROM ABOVE-LINKED REVIEW: "...Not too particularly thrilled with storyline.
I kept putting the book down after every chapter and when I started reading again I had to figure out which of the 10,000 characters the chapter was about.
"https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...FROM ABOVE-LINKED REVIEW: "...The characters felt flat and stereotypical/archtypical, and the setting felt more like a vague background..."NOTE: I enjoyed another book by Lorna Landvik entitled Oh My Stars, which was filled with droll humor and touching characters.
I am not as confident as she is, but I will push myself to be that way :-)Faith - the girl with the secrets.
:-)(Faith is also the one who has to deal with a gay son, they handled it very nicely I thought)Slip - the strong little fireball.
Merit - Like Faith she is keeping secrets.
I really loved her story line, and the things she had to deal with as an older mother of a mixed race child.
Overall, I can't say enough good things about this book.
This stalwart group of friends depicts a special slice of American life, of stay-at-home days and new careers, of children and grandchildren, of bold beginnings and second chances, in which the power of forgiveness, understanding, and the perfectly timed giggle fit is the CPR that mends broken hearts and shattered dreams.My Opinion: I really enjoyed this book of friendship.
I know everyone didn't really enjoy this book, but I really enjoyed reading about the friendships that only became stronger throughout the years, through all the good the bad and the ugly!
Binchy's books aren't necessarily overly dramatic but they're compelling and the reader can't help but learn so much about a town, it's people, and how they all interact.Landvik fails to give us compelling characters, she dwells too much on the uninteresting ones (Faith, so yeah, lots of people have had a hard life and have to cover it up) and totally glosses over the interesting ones (how in the world a woman with no money and means can divorce her brutal husband in the 60's and end up with the house and the kids is still a mystery to me because Landvik just lets this drama happen and skips ahead a few years so she won't have to waste any time on it - it is described simply as a bad divorce.
I actually saw a little bit of myself in all the women, but I have to say Merit is the one I most identify with because of the abusive relationship she experienced.The book probably appeals more to the 50+ group.
I’d like to see a sequel: Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons: The Golden Years.This edition included questions and answers to the author and a reading group guide.Follow this link to see all the books mentioned in Angry Housewives:https://www.goodreads.com/list/show/6...
Seems a little weird to think of this as historical fiction but the times it described are over.
Not many people seriously carry picket signs.
Young men are still damaged by wars (now it is young women also).
So many women staying at home with their children.
The author cherry picks the most meaningful moments out of her 5 female characters lives and brings them through forty years intact as a group.
None were perfect people and their interactions did not always go smoothly.
I think the author was trying to present the sweep of history and I am not sure why this was not a great book but it wasn't.
I felt guilty about really liking this book.
Needless to say there was lots of female bonding, as well as explorations of relationships with mothers, families and their friendships.
It was really foreign to read about "housewives" at a time that wasn't that long ago.
The book demonstrates that although they were "just" housewives, they were powerful, family matriarchs, creative, politically active and critical to the fabric of society.
The book went on a little too long and probably should have had about 100 pages lopped off.
I recommend for a good mostly light read.
