https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68428.The_Final_Empire
I'm just not sure yet how I feel about it.One language choice that I am sure how I feel about is Sanderson's decision to have his characters speak good old American English.
I interpreted it as Sanderson saying, "The unspoken assumption here is that this book has been translated from whatever languages they speak on this made-up world, so why translate it to anything other than what is most understandable and comfortable for you to read?
In contrast, fairly early in this book, Kelsier takes Vin on a practice run where he explains how her powers work and what their advantages and limitations are, using plain language and real-world physics, and lets her fly and mess around and just generally exult in her magic.
The story, the characters, the world, the magic system--I loved it all!
It was a wonderful first book in a series--satisfying on its own, yet there's still plenty to explore in future books (which I will definitely be reading soon!)Really, the only somewhat negative thing I have to say is regarding all the hype.
But again, this is a very minor gripe, and more about my reading experience than the actual book itself.I'll talk about the book more in a video soon, but for now I'll just say again, I LOVED IT.
It could be that it just took time for me to appreciate the book.
I appreciate the fact that there is no purple prose, but sometimes, a story is woven through the magic of words, and Sanderson's writing is simply too plain for me.On the other hand, damn, he's verbose.
World building, the myth and magic surrounding any high fantasy is so crucial, and Sanderson did a tremendous job.Yes, it's a long-ass book, and the writing isn't as spectacular as some (Guy Gavriel Kay), but on the other hand, this book is eminently readable, with a limited amount of meandering (unlike Guy Gavriel Kay).
WOAH. That was a crazy epic adventure full of fantastic characters and action packed madness! It definitely lived up to all the hype for me. :)
Awesome.I have been telling myself for years that I should try and branch out from just romance, paranormal romance, UF romance, sci-fi alien smut and the occasional murder mystery or biography (not that there is a damn thing wrong with my beloved romance, but just to challenge myself to try something new) and attempt to tackle a straight high fantasy.
*wink*In all sincerity though, this book was everything and I truly don't know why I waited so long to tackle this genre.
And the best part?There are now aisles of books at the bookstore that I feel have suddenly been opened to me.
MISTBORN WAS SO GOOD GAHH HERE'S MY BOOKTALK: http://youtu.be/S9kgwYQ6MPs
I'M NOT OKAY I'M STILL CRYING.On to read the next book!
Readers have been urging me for years to pick up anything by Brandon Sanderson, and after browsing his books I knew that Mistborn would be the first world I wanted to enter.
;)  I'm at a loss for words at how perfectly this book and I fit together; the only way I can think of explaining is that, upon finishing The Final Empire, I found myself questioning the validity of most of my previous 5 star reads.
The immaculate secondary detailing is what really set this apart from other adult fantasies I have read, and I can't wait to continue on and see where Sanderson takes us.
I TRUSTED YOU.I collected your clues and gathered your hints like freaking MANNA, and when you did-the-thing, I .
You probably PLANNED THAT TOO.The world of the Mistborn is not a pleasant place.There's always a downtrodden servant class in a Sanderson series, but this world's version is particularly bleak.Ash falls like rain from the sky, supplying the skaa with a never-ending, yet thankless workload.
“That’s where he got those scars, you know,” Disten said.
Even if I'm not thrilled about the execution, there is always incredible potential in his ideas.Take the concept for this series: what would happen if the hero meant to save the world .
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #4: A Book Involving a Heist(re-read)I stand by my rating! This book is FANTASTIC but just not quite a 5-star read for me. I'm really glad that I took the time to read my physical copy this time around (I speed-read most of the book on audio the first time I read it) because I feel like I grasped the story way better. I feel sufficiently re-capped now so I can finally read book 2!first read in 2014*4.5*So good oh my godddddd
Anyway, the old review is below and nothing has changed Old Reviewwww.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI'm sitting here in shock after reading this book.
I loved all of the "good" characters in the book.
It took me a little bit to understand the Allomancy, but it finally started to make sense and there is a little chart in the back of the book that helps out with that :) Kelsier (Kell) is a Mistborn and getting an army together to try to take down the Lord Ruler who is the ultimate jerk!!
All I can say is I look forward to reading many more Sanderson books!!!
The beginning of the trilogy that sparked my love for reading fantasy novels.It’s been exactly one year ten months since I first joined Goodreads or started reading The Final Empire, September 1st, 2016 to be exact.
Try going to a forum and ask “what’s your favorite or the most intriguing magic systems you’ve ever read in fantasy?” I guarantee you that snow will fall in my country if someone doesn’t shout Mistborn; it’s just THAT good.This book was also my first encounter with Sanderson’s spectacular world-building skill along with his simple, vivid, and immersive prose.
But beware of spoilers.) The World Building/Magic SystemThis book somehow managed to have the most extensive world building and the most creative magic system I've ever read about WHILE keeping me totally invested AND not bored the entire time.
there are slower parts and there is A LOT to this world - but Sanderson introduced it in such a way that it only made me feel for the characters the more as he revealed the world.
This is just a long book - and it needs to be with the amount of connection Sanderson is trying to draw.
I kept stalling on reading this because so many people told me I'd love it.
The last half was AMAZING and feels like a new favorite book, buuuut I honestly didn't get into it until around 40%.
Parts dragged for me but I kept reading because I loved the characters.But the last half of this book is so intense and heartbreaking and brilliant...
but also love how the book broke my heart?
Basically the hype is real and everyone who's been pushing me to read a Brandon Sanderson book is right -- I'm definitely a fan.
I've seen an enormous number of opinions about Sanderson's books on the fantasy forums I hang out on, the great majority favourable.
I was interested to see what it was that had sold so very many books and got such an incredibly high average score on Goodreads.
For most of the book I didn't think that I would be giving it 5*.
I started to worry that I might have a legion of Sanderfans on my case :oI think I am too much of a scientist for the magic system not to jar against me.
Also the action scenes were great, and the tension was kept high, nobody felt safe, the reveals kept coming ...
In many fantasy stories, a dark lord is rising and it is up to our heroes to defeat him before that happens.
In this, the Dark Lord is already set in place as the status quo and the heroes have to motivate others to want a change.....Yet there is a noble class of The Lord Ruler's flunkies who will need to be scammed and robbed along the way, to finance this big revolt.....I love it...The pace, style, and grand-heist-scheme-in-a-fantasy-setting plot remind me of Michael J.
Why did I wait so long to read this?
I must read the other two books in the series very soon.......
Brilliant.Absolutely brilliant.Re-reads are a tough decision. There is a high chance you won't find the book as good as you thought it was all those years ago, that you will be disappointed and left with a bitter taste in your mouth, that the glass tower that protects your relationship with said book will be shattered. Re-reads can be intimidating. But that was not the case with The Final Empire. Although it sounds improbable, I appreciated it even more the second time around. He was supposed to
The Lord Ruler founded the Final Empire, dividing the population between nobles and skaa.
With the mists engulfing your body, and the ash covering your clothes, you become a part of this ingenious, widely imaginative and strangely emotional story, and you realize with awe and admiration that Brandon Sanderson is the Lord Ruler of Fantasy.
“Our best efforts were never even a mild annoyance to the Lord Ruler.”“Ah, but being an annoyance is something that I am very good at.
You resent being torn away from the book to spend time with family, and when you are you babble incessantly about how awesome it is and how everyone would like it and how cool the magic is and how great the characters and on and on and on until your family is probably sick of you.
I craved it like chocolate, and not being able to read was hard to deal with.I would expect nothing less from the man chosen to finish the Wheel of Time, or from a contributor to Writing Excuses, the podcast that got me into podcasts.
More authors should practice writing the way he has.Normally I find more to say about books I like, but this time I'm too impressed.
MOTHER.
FUCKING.
FANTASTIC.
The writing, the story, the characters, the world, the magic, the battle scenes.
All fantastic!_ A beautifully intricate plot that includes, that's right!...
A heist!
(A heist?) Anyway, if that alone isn’t a reason enough, I don’t know what is.
_ A good variety of amazing and dynamic side characters.
Breeze is a DELIGHT, guys!😍_ And last but certainly not least, it is filled with amazing character interactions.
The dialogues are insane.👌This is a high fantasy of epic adventures with real-world issues and nothing will prepare you for the twists and turns.
Ok so some of this may seem confusing at first but there is a handy explanation at the back of the book labelling each misting and their respective power which becomes helpful to the reader though it does begin to sink in eventually.
I love to see characters grow across a novel, and Vin certainly does that.
This is a good thing to do in a novel because the reader is sat their thinking “I know how this will end.” Well, I will say he certainly doesn’t.
It’s one of the best fantasy books that I’ve read.
So bear with me while I ramble away.The main character of the book is Vin, a street orphan who has never known friendship or trust, not even from her own family.
He is one of the most amazing fantasy characters that I’ve read.
*sigh*The story begins when Kelsier returns to Luthadel with a new plan to overthrow the Lord Ruler and he puts together a crew of criminal masterminds to accomplish it.
Some of the secondary characters surprised me with their role in the final part of the book.
I gave it 5 stars the first time, I give it five stars again!New edited review to come soon!Yes it took me a while to finish this book, but university just takes so much out of you!
I love love loved this book, like as in simply adored!
Kelsier broke my heart one too many time when he died, but it was the good kind of heartbreak.
The kind that makes you hold you chest and go like "wow that is some powerful stuff right there", and everything else that goes along with that.
Never in my life have I ever felt an incredible amount of disappointment that this book gave me.
I'm literally so fucking bitter and salty that I didn't enjoy this hyped as fuck book that no one has ever written a single negative review for.I'M SEETHING.
(view spoiler)[And I predicted Kelsier's death??
Based off of everyone's reactions I knew he was going to die.
(hide spoiler)]Full review to come.----My FIRST Sanderson novel y'all!!!!!
I was going to start off with Steelheart, but everyone says this is his best.
Anyways, this book is incredibly hyped and if it disappoints I will cry.
I want this to be my first summer read, The Love Interest certainly doesn't count.  SPOILER ALERT! You know, when a book leaves you feeling dead inside?No? Then you obviously haven't read The Final Empire!!  “He smiled despite the grief he felt at the deaths of his men; he smiled because that was what he did. That was how he proved to the Lord Rulerand to himself that he wasn't beaten.”    "Survivor of Hathsin," it said."You promised me a fight."Kelsier flares his metals. "I never said we were d
You know, when a book leaves you feeling dead inside?No?
Brandon Sanderson, you owe me a novella or an entire series about younger Kelsier, his wife, and Marsh would be very, very nice!
I don't care if there is a love triangle or love at first sight, or it's simply just a cheese-ball.
If anyone deserves any cheese, it's kell!
(view spoiler)[ TLR is dead, and so is Kelsier (hide spoiler)] They were the reason i loved this book so much.
I'm having Rose and Jack moment right now, except I WON'T LET GO!
The story begins when Kelsier returns to Luthadel after all these years, with a grand new plan and a crew of criminal masterminds to execute it.The characters definitely make up one of the greatest strengths of this book.
And even when the book ends, there are still secrets that have yet to be revealed.Mistborn: The Final Empire is certainly one of the best books I have read this year, and I would not be exaggerating if I should call it one of the best fantasy books of this century.
I bought this book in January after hearing so much hype around it and I attempted to read this book at least 10 times since then.
FINALLY, I decided to pick it back up again and push through and oh my god I wish I had read this book sooner.
I honestly have no words to even describe this amazing book.
The hype was so worth it for this one and I cannot wait to see what is in store in the coming books.
Wow.I actually loved every single character in this book?!
Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsThis was my book club's pick of the month! I can't even believe this was so good. I mean I can, because it's Brandon Sanderson! But seriously... This was an excellent high fantasy novel. I'm going to try to put my feelings into words, but I find I have a harder time writing positive reviews vs. negative reviews.  The World/Magic System: This novel takes place in a world devoid of most of its natural color. It's a ruthless empire that has built its foundation on the backs
When I think back on them after closing the book, I just want to know more.
I think my love of this set up really began with The Thief Lord, which I read as a small child.
But it was so well done!Vin. A young member of a Skaa thieving crew, surviving the streets by brandishing her unique ability to bring "luck" to any given situation.
I want to say that while I totally adored this book, the plot is not something I've never seen before in its simplest form.It's essentially an oppressed group seeking to topple a privileged group.
I experienced about a thousand mind fucks and I was  NOT  prepared for even  ONE OF THEM (╥︣﹏᷅╥)I literally went into this book like: (Moral of the image: Never go into a book and think you'll come out emotionally stable.
It's called Allomancy) who has a deep, burning hatred for the Lord Ruler for many reasons (Read the book, bud, and you'll know).
He came out as a brand new person (Read the book and you'll know why) and is hell bent on trying to destroy the Lord Ruler and Nobility.
No words really to review this book or explain to you where it stands on the scale of bookish epicness.
And this is after reading it 4 times.
It was my first exposure to adult fantasy and the start of my bookish obsession (since before that I didn't read actively for a good 3 to 4 years!
Not to mention that it's perfect from start to finish.
Previous review:  Reread: Feb 2016Well, it was perfect obviously.
I've read this book 3 times now and I'm still blown away by how incredibly good this is.
Everything about it for me was perfect.
4.5/5 stars(with fan art pictures)For this and more reviews please visit my book blog “Our belief is often strongest when it should be weakest. That is the nature of hope.” It's going to be very hard to say something about The Mistborn series that hasn't been said before. I've heard people say that if you are true fantasy genre fan and haven't read this series then you have no right to call yourself that. And I have to say that I agree. I've heard people calling Sanderson an absolute genius. And
I've heard people say that if you are true fantasy genre fan and haven't read this series then you have no right to call yourself that.
If the army were made up of one-legged mutes, he would praise their balance and their listening skills.” ((Sadly I couldn't find a picture of Ham that I liked)Elend is, well, if you are a true book worm and don't fall in love with Elon then something is not right.
______________________________________________Pre-reviewSo, I recommended this book to my husband, based purely on Goodreads hype.And now he's raving about it too!And I feel so foolish, because I myself haven't read it yet.______________________________________________My WEBSITEMy INSTAGRAMMy WORDPRESS BLOG
