https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61942.The_Dragonriders_of_Pern
I must admit the first volume kept me interested because of the world and I had to turn a blind eye to a small amount of awkwardness and even some rather dates relationship dynamics.
However by the third volume, The White Dragon all of it is worth it and I've fallen in love with Pern.
It's clear that McCaffrey knew the world and its history.mit suffuses through everything that happens.
I also like that its a world not a series.
I don't feel pressure to keep going but instead know that whenever I need a pleasant respite from other worlds, I can easily visit Pern.
The world Anne McCaffrey built is nice, but her view on women (the most positive example is of an indipendent resourceful woman who also happens to be very *manipulative* and revengeful), their subservient role to males, how men always know best, bug the hell out of me.
I don't know if that's because she wrote those books in the late 60s and 70s or cos her POV is kind of old-fashioned regarless of the time she grew up in, but whatever the reason, I cringed quite a lot, especially while reading Dragonflight.
I'm not ready yet) cos her universe is fascinating, but I hope McCaffrey's view on women changed in later novels.
Loved this book when I read it.
The start of a epic series of books well worth reading.OK, story time.
In 1993, Anne McCaffrey did live chat on Compu-Serve, which no or few authors had ever done.
Since the online world was a lot smaller in those days, or because it was poorly promoted, I got to chat with Anne (and a moderator I think) for about 15 minutes ALL BY MYSELF.
I do remember talking about where characters were headed in their development, and which characters I liked and disliked.
And other books and authors I liked.
This book took me from earth to 3000 years in the future where some humans escaped earth's planetary warfare to a planet called Pern.
Pern is a planet scientifically much like our own except for the erratic red planet that passes by every few hundred years which thrusts a silvery carbon eating menace called thread.
The settlers befriend creatures called firelizards which breathe fire on the thread destroying it before it destroys every living thing living on Pern.
These magnificent creatures born to protect Pern and chose certain people who possessed the right stuff to fight thread and protect the planet.I would recommend this series of books to anyone who loves science fiction.
I was surprised to discover it was a science fiction series and not fantasy, despite the trappings this isn't a medieval society in a made up kingdom, it's actually the story of humanity after they had gone to the stars and colonized other worlds and lost the technological know how from days past.
Pern is a world where society had declined and stagnated and was only just beginning to find the lost secrets of the past again.
All that said, I had a blast reading these books again.
I've read this multiple times from when it was 1st published as well as most of the following novels, duologues and trilogies.
It is a favorite epic fantasy of mine.
I consider it one of the best speculative fiction series extant.
I've argued the genre of this series - fantasy vs sci-fi - since CompuServe days.
To me it has always felt like fantasy and this 1st trilogy is certainly epic fantasy.
I genrize these novels individually on their own merits.
I am aware the author considers them all sci-fi.
I do not consider that especially relevant, but just one person's opinion.
One of my very rare Five stars.Very good writing, an ingenious world. The dragons are worth reading about, the characters are real and stay in character. The actions scenes are great, so are the descriptions. The plot follows itself as it should. This is the first three books which are a trilogy. So you can get the full read with this set.I fully recommend all three. A little dark in places and a surprise ending, not sure if the all the main characters are always likable but they are real. A great read.
The Dragonriders of Pern is a fantastic trilogy packed full of adventure and encourages you to rise above the doubts of others. All three books have great messages about perseverance, plus fantastic dragons and fine lizards. If you enjoy the trilogy there is an additional trilogy, The Harper Hall, which continues the story. Enjoy! - teen reviewer Sofia D.
I found myself on the edge of dropping it a number of times but the book engaged my highly developed sense of the daydream enough that I read it through, enjoying a fast, fun read.That’s not to say the volumes are not without many flaws.
Without spoiling the plot, the red-star threat isn’t really plausible, the dragons are too big and their method of covering distances, including their special conundrum causing method of travel, is firmly in the realm of fantasy not science fiction.
I'm going to do this review in parts as I read each book in the omnibus.DRAGONFLIGHTHere is your introduction to Pern.
The story grabs the reader early and doesn't let go until the very end.
DRAGONQUESTSome of the characters in this book made me angry and kept me angry almost from start to finish.
This book takes the reader a few steps closer to the goal of ending the threat of thread.
This rather abrupt transition with zero explanation and only vague references made to how upsetting it was for a woman to have impressed a fighting dragon, annoys me to no end.
Dragonflight begins the Pern series, and Dragonquest picks up pretty much right where Dragonflight leaves off, but The White Dragon takes place several years and 3 books later, so it can be somewhat jarring if you haven't read the Harper trilogy (the 3 intervening books).
Contrast that to the Wheel of Time books, where the good guys' problems stem not only from external sources, but from mistrusting each other, infighting, failing to share vital information, and general petty squabbling amongst themselves.2.
Generally the plots move along well, and almost every scene (except some in White Dragon, more on that later) moves one or more of the plotlines forward.3.
Here in one volume are the first two novels--and in my opinion the best three--of McCaffrey's Pern series: Dragonflight, Dragonquest and The White Dragon.
(Lessa, incidentally, is that rare thing in science fiction--a female protagonist and point of view character.) These three books aren't notable for style or for provoking thought, but they're fine, entertaining novels that bear rereading--science fantasy comfort food.
I don't feel the later Pern books are as winning, but these three come to a satisfying resolution.(And McCaffrey has other books I love more in a classical science fiction vein like The Ship Who Sang and Crystal Singer.
This book was a very huge disappointment.
Throughout all three books, I did read them all sadly, there was no growth whatsoever.
There was little plot besides the "worms" eating crops, and the discovery of a planet like mars dropping the worms.
For a fantasy novel with "dragon-pterodactyl-thingy" riding, spaceships and terrorizing planets, you would think the threat to the world would be something more than a tiny silver worm that ate crops.
Save yourself the trouble and don't read this.
If you're truly curious, just get the first book by itself, and watch the 1940's feminist movement again with pterodactyl-dragons thrown in.
This isn't the first time I have read this series of books, hell not even the second or third.
It is interesting to me, how some books I read back in the days of High School, don't hold up as well the older I get.
Others though hold up well to the test of time, Dragonriders is one of those.
This is the case with the Dragonrider series.
I have once again come away feeling upbeat after reading the three books (the first three written in the series) and impressed with McCaffrey's ability as a wordsmith.
I actually enjoyed reading the beginning of this trilogy and those parts which were more concerned with the planet, its colonization and its periodic interplanetary crises. As it when on, however, it became increasingly a fantasy, rather than a science, fiction. Not only was it just a fantasy, but it was a rather typical one, employing over-used dragon themes and idealized mediaeval social structures. By the completion of page 750, I was thoroughly bored.
This volume contains three separate novels relating to Pern and its dragons. In Dragonflight it has been so long since Thread have fallen that some Lords no longer want to support the wyers. F'lar and Lessa create a new legends of what the dragon can do. Dragonquest is the story of trying to reach the red star. A rare white dragon is born and in an unheard of action bonds with Jaxon, the young Lord Holder of Ruatha.
I enjoyed the first book very much. While I enjoyed the other two, I felt the writing reverted to the "he said, she said" of other follow-on fantasy novels (any number of David Eddings books qualify). The world of Pern is novel and the dragon/rider relationship is intriguing to read about. It's a worthwhile read, but I don't feel the full potential was achieved due to a lack of depth and more telling than showing.
I truly LOVED these books as a child 30 years ago. I tried re-reading them to my ten-year-old (same age as when I read them) and was really taken back by how much I thought the writing was horrible. Whatever charm I saw as a ten-year old was gone as an adult. My ten-year-old really did not like them either. He found them confusing to keep track of who was who.
My introduction to Anne McCaffrey.I was given this for my 13th birthday by (of all people) my psychiatrist! I suppose it was his way of showing my foster-family that he, at least, supported my scifi habit.
great characters. totally believable world, great progression and arc
I loved this series. I go back every so often and re-read them. They are still good, years after I first discovered them.
As much as I tell in this review I will not give away the main plot resolution, nor many of the fascinating subplots, but I will explore characters, so...mild spoilers ahead if you've not read it yet Book one of the trilogy starts in the point of view of a very strong female lead character, Lessa.
Lessa sees her chance when dragonrider F'lar comes to search for a candidate for an about-to-be-hatched queen dragon egg.
F'lar's beast Mnemeth flies Lessa's queen dragon, Ramoth, and they become weyrmates, leading Pern's last surviving dragons and forcing an unbelieving and unprotected planet to prepare for the coming menace.
Went back to read this in a fit of nostalgia, and realized I should have left well enough alone. I still love the original concept, but the original characters, not so much. Especially Lessa. Now that I'm older, her manipulative interactions grate. Ah, well, I'll remember the dragons happily, and keep it at that.
I read these books many years ago.
That doesn’t mean that what I remembered wasn’t in one of the books, there are many books Anne McCaffrey wrote about Pern.
At the beginning of the book it has been 400 years since thread has fallen on Pern, there is only one Weir with thread-fighting dragons and the lords don’t want to support (tithe to) them because, “thread is never coming back”.
Obviously thread does come again, otherwise what would be the point of the book?Like I said I read this book many years ago.
I looked up the original publication date, and the first came out in 1968, so these have been around a long time and the reviews on Amazon are mostly glowing.Looking at it from a 1968 point of view (the same year as the first book in Le Guin's Earthsea trilogy I might add), it is an original plot with interesting premises - really a mix of science fiction and fantasy.
As far as plot and character development, I liked the way she developed her characters, but the middle book's plot dragged to where I felt I was speed reading just to get to an interesting part.
But when the thread falls, human and dragon heroes must fight the scourge.
Product Description Finally together in one volume, the first three books in the world's most beloved science fiction series, THE DRAGONRIDERS OF PERN, by Anne McCaffrey, one of the great science fiction writers of all time: DRAGONFLIGHT, DRAGONQUEST, THE WHITE DRAGON.
Those who know these extraordinary tales will be able to re-visit with Lessa, F'lar, Ruth, Lord Jaxon, and all the others.
And for those just discovering this magical place, there are incomparable tales of danger, deceit, and daring, just waiting to be explored..
When I saw a Kindle deal for the boxed set of the first three books, I hit one-click without a thought.
I was looking for "comfort reads" and what better place to go than to a world of SciFi-Fantasy that held me enthralled when I was younger.I fear a little of the gold leaf has flaked off but that's due more likely to the changes wrought in my life.
Then I could slip into the world and enjoy it for the fantasy it brings.
I didn't move on to the second book, and considered skipping ahead to the third, but my writer's brain wouldn't let me.
Anne McAffrey paints a fascinating world, the world of Pern, that used to be threatened by mysterious matter falling from the sky whenever the Red Star appears.
This Red Star has not been around for a long long time (many Turns), so the ways of old to counter the mysterious falling Threads have been fallen in disuse.
And then the Red Star appears again.Ann McAffrey introduces a wonderful world with fabulous characters and many dragons, that will not disappoint the avid fantasy reader.The book I read consists of the first 3 Dragonriders stories, I have for now stopped after the first story as there is so much more to read… but I’ll return to Pern.
Admittedly, I started this series with the third book, "The White Dragon", however upon reading it I immediately sought out the rest of the series.
Unlike most books on dragons, this series has a completely different take on the fantasy genre.
In books that follow it continues to include, not only fantasy, but science fiction aspects as well, and unlike most authors who attempt this, Anne McCaffrey has managed to blend the two into a whole that works extremely well together.
I would highly recommend this series, as well as the corresponding books, to both fantasy and science fiction lovers alike.
Can't believe it took me so long to read this book!!!Majorly distracted is my only defense. I really enjoyed it. It has been so long since I read it --- maybe 30 years --- that this was like reading the series for the first time. I didn't remember anything of The White Dragon at all. It could be that I was so busy with college work that it did not make that great an impression on me.But for whatever reason, it is a great feeling to read an old book and have it seem completely new again!
