https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769471.Cathedral
I would recommend this book to anyone who is reading or enjoyed "Pillars of the Earth".
I say that because "Pillars of the Earth" is one of my wife's favorite books and she has read it several times.
Not only are the different parts of the cathedral shown but the different crafts are mentioned and illustrated that helped build it.
For instance, in this story the author mentions a master builder being replaced when he fell to his death.
You will get an idea of just what 'Builder Tom' had to work with.
The glorious illustrations are what truly makes David Macauley's Cathedral: The Story of Its Construction visually stunning and an aesthetic treat; they are detailed, informative, and quite simply outstanding in every way.
However, as much as I do appreciate (and even enjoy) the featured pictorial images, the author and illustrator's accompanying text is really much much too dense and occasionally even rather majorly tedious (especially for a book geared towards children), as whilst reading, I often feel my attention wandering (and my eyes skimming over entire parts).
Cathedral was the first of David Macaulay’s very popular (and groundbreaking) “children’s” books, in which he produced large drawings accompanied by interesting text, together illustrating how various things have been put together by humans over the ages.
(I imagine that Macaulay’s was a source book that Follett very likely looked at.) Not only is Cathedral accessible to younger readers, it can be consumed in a matter of hours, and then referred back to again and again, instead of needing tiresome days to get through.
I've been reading a number of scholarly books and histories on the subject, and all of them serve to verify that Macaulay got it right.
He doesn't go into the theory, the complex geometry, or the depth of historical and political context, of course, but his pictures helped me to understand how the flying buttresses were constructed (and why), as well as how these astonishing structures were built in a time before cranes and computer-assisted design.
From some of the other books I'm reading, I've found that many of the laborers and skilled artisans who built the cathedrals were women.
But if you're interested in cathedrals, I strongly recommend you get a copy of Macaulay's book to study alongside the more theoretical books.
(Same review for Castle, Cathedral, and Pyramid, which I read all around the same time)I greatly enjoyed Randall Munroe's What If. It reminded me in some ways of David Macaulay's books, which I read as a child.
My favorites were the intermittent illustrations that illustrated the same view of the building at different intervals of time.
Cathedral stands out here above the others; there are a few extra of these "t=1, t=2, ..." drawings.
I also thought Cathedral featured the best illustrations overall, perhaps because of the larger number of intricacies and ornate decorations.
As an artist, a trained architect, and a lifelong lover of children's books, I fiercely love this little book of step-by-step ink drawings of a medieval Gothic cathedral being built.
The level of knowledge and care that went into each picture is awe-inspiring, and yet instantly legible.
There's an astonishing level of mastery here to be able to compress so much obviously painstakingly researched information into this slender, simple volume.
The book is interesting on every single page, beautiful on every single page.
The book is bigger than the sum of its parts, and it is a damned impressive sum of parts to begin with.
1974 Caldecott Honor: Favorite Illustration - I love the cross views throughout the book, starting with the foundations and then adding the walls, vaults, buttresses, etc.This fictional tale of the building of a Gothic cathedral is pumped full of details on how people of the time accomplished these architectural wonders.
The beautiful cross-hatch and line-drawings illustrated in detail all the work that went into building such an amazing building over several decades.Side note: I'd love to see something this in depth on the building of the LDS Salt Lake Temple.
At first, as I flipped through, I saw a lot of white space, but after reading, I realize this is a good book to talk about structure/layout of text with students.
This book has 77 pages, but reads super fast.
The intricate illustrations and the brief text are so helpful to comprehension because the details are so very technical and complex to a mind not suited to construction of this magnitude.
Because the pacing is slowed down by short pieces of text on each page, it also really helps me experience the massive of amount of time, almost a century, it takes to build a cathedral.
Intricately illustrated with detailed pen and ink drawings that aptly tell the story. The text was informative, but not very engaging.
Really nice ink drawings. Interesting explanations. Used this in my Art History classes.
Excellent description of the different stages of cathedral building, beautifully illustrated for children.
1974 Caldecott HonorThe illustrations are nice to look at, but the text is very trying if not interested.....
This is a truly stunning book. The illustrations are incredible; detailed and animated, and the writing is concise and clear. I have read Ken Follett, but I still learned from this. I appreciated, too, the theological tidbits. The patience to embark on a project like this, knowing you would likely not live to see its completion is impressive and needed in this age of instant gratification. Also, the desire to build this incredible space to the glory of God; sure, pride and selfishness were also certainly involved, but this book shows how the architecture itself is a witness.
There were a few theological misstatements on page 1. After that, the book was a pure delight.
For these architecturally-curious children, David Macaulay’s award-winning books come to the rescue.
Like Macaulay’s other works, “Cathedral” is an oversize children’s picture book filled with glorious hand-drawn black and white “pen and ink” illustrations which share space with educative text describing how a cathedral was built in the 13th century.
Macaulay smoothly combines an intellectual lesson with enough make-believe for a child.Approximately half-way through, “Cathedral” becomes more detailed in terms of describing the building process and the roles of the builders involved; while the photos also becomes more intricate.
Cathedral: The Story of Its Construction is the first book written by David Macaulay.
Although the book is a good read for people of different ages, it is intended for children from age 9 and above.
By the end of the book, we are able to share in the joy of the town people and their collective efforts to build their house of God. I thought the black and white pictures would take away from the aesthetic appeal of this work however, the detailed textured illustrations bring the story to life and engage the reader.
Somehow I missed this as a kid, even though I was a LIBRARY kid that devoured everything interesting.
Maybe back then old, European history doesn't sound as interesting or as important as it does to my middle-aged self.
Regardless, I'm glad I found this "children's" book bow, because it's really amazing.
The illustrations are wonderful, of course, but what's just as good is how you learn something about the enormous engineering undertaking that one of these cathedrals was.
I still can't get my 21st century brain to imagine a social construction project that takes hundreds of years.
We struggle with 5-year projects now.
I read the updated version in color. While the text was pretty dense and it wasn't of utmost interest to me, I really loved the illustrations. I have always been drawn to stained glass windows and found the illustrations and description of their creation quite captured my attention. While this book certainly isn't for every reader, my first several years of teaching when I taught 5th and 6th grades, I had several boys who pored over Macaulay's work. They were smitten. So it does have an audience even if I am not really part of that audience.
While I'd studied Gothic cathedrals before, including some information about the funding mechanisms, design work, and artistry involved, I'd never learned much about the methods of construction or the material economics of the process. This book was great for that, describing the construction of an imaginary cathedral from conception to completion over nearly 100 years. Accessible to younger readers, but not simplistic.
Another interesting look at the process of constructing a historical building. Cathedral is basically the same in style and format as Castle. I think for me to connect with either of these books more I’d need more characters and less technical description. My husband also pointed out that it would have added a lot if the images of stained glass were in color.
with Story of the World, Vol II.For some reason I skipped over the beginning note about this being a fictional cathedral so at the end of the book when we wanted to learn more about the cathedral now and we found it didn't exist it was a BIG (tear-filled) disappointment. Moral: Don't skip that part if your kid is like mine.
I'm not saying it wasn't a cool book, I just felt let down.
It has won awards as a children's book but I found it enjoyable and interesting to learn more about cathedrals and how they were built.
And it's funny, because I am actually pretty good with some special awareness or visualization things like planning ahead in chess or picking out a pass in soccer, but for some reason, this is different.These are the sort of books that I will probably keep reading more of and trying to understand and appreciate that much more, but that in many ways, I hope one or both of my children will actually get more than I do because there is a lot of value in this world in knowing how to make or fix things.
It is sometimes said that elementary school libraries are so full of fiction that the non-fiction takes a decided second seat.
Well, along comes David Macaulay--well, 45 years ago actually--with this wonderful book (as well as its many successors on pyramids and castles,etc.) which describes the mindbogglingly long time and incredible undertakings required to build a European cathedral in the 13th and 14th Centuries.
If you've never read one of Macaulay's books on the construction of various impressive buildings (or even their dismantling in at least one case), you've missed out.
Comprehensively covers how cathedrals were built in the Middle Ages. Beautifully illustrated. I would have liked it if a few more details about life in general in the Middle Ages were included, but certainly no information is lacking on the subject matter. Best for older children (middle school or even high school), though totally appropriate as well for interest adults - not being an architect buff, almost all the information here was new to me.
Beautiful, highly-intricate ink drawings and dense but lucid text that depict and describe (respectively, of course) the edification of the imaginary cathedral of Chutreaux between 1252 and 1338. Recommended if you're interested in cathedrals (obviously), the Middle Ages, church architecture in general, or inspiring/amazing yourself and your children with the ingenuity and persistence of Medieval Europe's denizens.
This was an interesting, easy, 20-minute read. It tells of how a cathedral was built in the 13th century from start to finish; the process takes about a hundred years! The illustrations are gorgeous and intricate, yet easy to understand. I never know how complicated building one really was. Anyone who likes architecture or history will adore this book!
I didn't like it as much as David Macaulay's Castles, however, I think that is just the result of a natural interest in military history. I did enjoy it a lot, though, and it sparked many interesting conversations about the morality of the Church spending yonks of money expensive buildings when it could be using it to look after our neighbours.
Fantastic illustrations and information. Shows that churches and cathedrals were built as more than just a building to gather at, every step and decision in the architecture has a purpose physically and spiritually.
