https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249303.Rope
Two men murder an acquaintance, stuff the corpse into a chest and then invite the victim’s father round to eat dinner off it!
Patrick Hamilton’s Rope remains a highly entertaining play some 90+ years after it was written.
The play grabbed my attention right away with the ominous beginning and Hamilton skilfully ratchets up the tension and momentum throughout.
Those are minor complaints though and took little away from my reading enjoyment.
Rope is a very compelling and gripping tale of murder most foul.
And if reading plays isn’t your speed, I also recommend Patrick Hamilton’s equally thrilling dark novel, Hangover Square.
However, the film version, as good as it is, is set in a different time and misses out, in my opinion, on one of the crucial issues of Hamilton's original play, even though it does try to update the discussion.The original play was set in the post-war London of the 1920s with the questions and issues raised by the First World War still very much on the minds of people.
It is with this background, that Hamilton weaves in the question of when murder becomes socially and morally acceptable - when is killing murder and when is it war.I had so far only seen the film, but the original play is really worth listening to - even if some of the dialogue and plot are a little forced.
Hamilton always denied that the famous Leopold and Loeb case in America in 1924 in which two teenagers from prominent Chicago families committed an apparently motiveless murder on a 14-year-old boy, was the inspiration for Rope.
The similarities between his play, and the Leopold and Loeb case, make his claim lack credibility.
Patrick Hamilton’s Rope concerns two upper class Oxford students who, under the malign influence of Nietzsche and his theories of the Ubermensch, kill a fellow undergraduate for the “fun of the thing”.
Hamilton slowly and cleverly ratchets up the tension as the three lead characters react in a very different, but all in a consistently compelling, way to the drama.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hukbu...Description: For the mere sake of adventure, danger, and the "fun of the thing," Wyndham Brandon persuades his weak minded friend, Charles Granillo, to assist him in the murder of a fellow undergraduate, a perfectly harmless man named Ronald Raglan.
They place the body in a wooden chest, and to add spice to their handiwork, invite a few acquaintances, including the dead youth's father, to a party, the chest with its gruesome contents serving as a supper table.
The horror and tension are worked up gradually; thunder grows outside, the guests leave, and we see the reactions of the two murderers, watched closely by the suspecting lame poet, Rupert Cadell.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Two young undergraduates think they've committed the perfect murder.
To add piquancy to their crime, they invite the victim's father and other guests to a macabre dinner party.Starring Alan Rickman as Rupert Cadell, Adam Bareham as Wyndham Brandon, Andrew Branch as Charles Granillo, Cyril Luckham as Sir Johnstone Kentley, Moir Leslie as Leila Arden, Christopher Good as Kenneth Raglan and Olivier Pierre as SabotStage, screen and radio actor and director, Alan Rickman was born: 21st February 1946 and died 14th January 2016 aged 69.English playwright, Patrick Hamilton (1904 - 1962) once explained: "In Rope, I have gone all out to write a horror play and make your flesh creep.
A thriller all the time, and nothing but a thriller".Producer: John TydemanFirst broadcast on BBC Radio 4 in Saturday Night Theatre: Murder for Pleasure in 1983.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b071c7rb
It took me forever to find this play by Patrick Hamilton.
Even in London I couldn't find it.
Many years later I found a copy at Brand Books (fantastic used bookstore by the way) and kept it by bed for a month or two before even opening the title page.I waited because this play to me is sort of a dream object.
If you seen the Hitchcock film version of 'Rope,' you pretty much saw the play.
First of all it is not as good as Hamilton's London novels.
I recommend it only if you are a Hitchcock fan or want to complete your Patrick Hamilton collection at home.
Review to follow in a day or three.
The tension, irony, and suspense in this is just fantastic. And the Alfred Hitchcock adaption with Jimmy Stewart is awesome. Officially a fan.
Though differing from Hitchcock's film of it it is as diabolically potent.
At this stage it becomes clear that much of this character’s disillusionment and bitterness are a consequence of the atrocities he went through in World War I.The play contains some fine scenes of suspension, although the characters lack the typical Hitchcock esprit, and it also makes you think about moral values and how they are influenced by social prejudice, e.g. the positive image of killing in times of war, or for other seemingly “noble” motives.
I read this after seeing a performance of the play by the college's drama group.
I didn't quite catch some of the dialogue, so I wanted to read what I had missed.
I enjoyed the performance more than reading the play, frankly.
I noted with interest the little things added or altered by the play's director that were not in the text, things which lent a touch of humor to an otherwise serious play.
Now I'll have to find the film Alfred Hitchcock made from the play.
I would also like to read this author's other two "gaslight crime" plays.By the way, I was able to read it thanks to Open Library.
This would've been good even if it was just an hour of people inadvertently using colloquialisms about death, but no, it's Patrick Hamilton so it gets even better. Will need to watch the Hitchcock film eventually.
I generally do not read plays; I prefer to watch them.In a very short period of time, Hamilton develops very strong characters.
Brandon truly is psychotic and the idea that he can murder for the sake of murder/art is creepy.
Brandon may just be the most diabolical creature I've encountered in fiction in years.
Granillo is a sissy, a simpering fool and Hamilton's brilliance makes you want to grab this character by the shoulders and shake some sense (and courage) into him.
I got this play because it is the basis for the Alfred Hitchcock film, which I love.
Only here there is no teacher, just an older person who shares the students' warped ideas.The story is based on the Leopold and Loeb true-life murder case in which two geniuses murder a boy in order to commit the perfect crime.
The students are trying to follow Nietzsche's idea of living dangerously.The older person gradually catches on to them and the play comes to a predictable end.
The film vastly improves on the play, adding dialogue and featuring the rope the two strangled their "friend" with almost as a character.
An interesting intellectual twist on the murder mystery classic. Rather than relying on our uncertainty about who to trust, the suspense in Rope hinges on who will discover the murder. We know who not to trust from the beginning, but we don't know who will be able to open the chest containing the hidden cadaver.
I thought that it was a suspenseful piece with a good touch of humor thrown in..amazing how long a "body" can go unnoticed; then again the reader could have imagined that there could have been one hidden where i shouldn't be...and under everyone's noses in the play.
Trying to commit the perfect murder...
6 males, 2 females. Single set, nothing special (i.e. no second floor or trapdoors etc). Sound effects are primarily a thunderstorm.Disappointing. The crime takes place prior to the play opening. Other than a macabre sense of 'let's see what we can get away with', there doesn't seem to be any compelling reason to write this play.
I think another reviewer on here said it best, "Again some guys who did not understand their Nietzsche properly."
for my school project
Excelente diversão !Tenso, mórbido e cruel!Hitchcock adorou e fez Festim Diabólico!
