https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835295.The_Works_of_Henry_David_Thoreau
“It’s not what you look at that matters. It’s what you see.” Henry David Thoreau
This includes many of his works including Civil Disobedience, Walking, and Walden, three of my favorites.
If you aren't familiar with Civil Disobedience it is the standard for living by one's individual ethics regardless of the positions of the state.
Most people are familiar with at least segments of Walden, but I urge everyone to read all of this experiment to live a simple life without the meaningless trappings of society...an honest and detailed account full of beautiful descriptions of his life at Walden Pond.In Walking Thoreau also describes the joys and beauties of nature that may be appreciated by simply walking and noticing.
I read Walden as college student and thought, "This is ME!!!" I agreed with everything. I read Walden as a young mother and thought, "Now wait a minute. He's awfully quick to condemn the homesteaders with a lot of stress and strain on their budgets. I don't think I like him."I read Walden as an empty nester and thought, "He has a lot to learn about real life, but I like him and agree with much of it. This is me."
I got this set as a gift before I started college and read the books throughout that last summer at home.
Even though I'm not a big nature buff, there's something about Thoreau that makes me want to pack up a cooler and a tent and live in the woods for a while.
It's easy to see the parallels to today.I'm not planning on giving up my flat-screen HDTV or my high-speed internet connection any time soon.
But every time I read these books, the thoughts of running off to the woods pop into my mind.
Eremetic notions have long caused me to be a fan of Thoreau's writings. Last year, I began delving into philosophy and most recently political philosophy and theory. When I found out Thoreau was an anarchist, I decided to revisit him. His words resonated on a deeper level this go 'round.
I read this when I was eighteen, right before college. It was life changing. A man who becomes one with nature, and not a lonely hermit.
Superb book. Very thought provoking.
I read this to correspond to another reading challenge. It covers all of Thoreau's writing on natural history, including Walden. It was interesting to read Thoreau's thoughts on nature and life in general. He definitely doesn't feel like people need much to survive and we should use as little as possible to leave nature alone as much as possible. Much written here we still need to learn from.
Not CompleteThis book is not complete by any means. The complete journals are not here so buyer beware! There are better deals elsewhere.
This volume contains Walden only. Loved it and will reread in a year or so:)
