https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77721.The_Book_of_the_Dun_Cow
This unique book, written in 1978, is grisly, gritty, earthy, painful, and beautiful.
Wangerin has taken stark good and evil and played them out in an almost predictable manner, unafraid of arrangements that could be called clichéd, trite, childish, overused.
Full of talking animals, a small-scale realm unto itself, an epic of good-and-evil with Homeric battles, virtues and vices embodied in fur, noses, claws, wings, beaks…, great geo-political problems ensconced in a farmyard or forest.
Humour, suffering, courage, and profound meaning are couched in the very words of this brilliantly written book.
The Canterbury Tales meets John Bunyan, with a dash of Animal Farm. Although this is a sort of parable, the tale rises above and beyond that. I found this hard to put down.
Mundo Cani Dog ends up giving his life (or so it seems) to save Chauntecleer and the others, and this act of grace makes Chauntecleer see his own sinfulness (he had despised Mundo Cani).
This is really Chauntecleer's story from beginning to end, as he develops into the leader he was called to be.
Many of the characters are based on Chaucer's "The Nun's Priest's Tale" and/or Reynard the Fox. Themes in the book include: self-sacrifice, the loneliness of leadership, the power to choose good over evil, and the importance of doing so.
The beasts in his fable all have wonderful quirks and individual ways of talking.
Book Club this month decided that we would all choose a former National Book Award winner. I decided to pick the weirdest thing on the list, and a story inspired by Chaucer where farm animals unite to defeat evil, seemed like the right choice. It was a fun departure from my comfort zone. It did feel a bit too clever at times, which took me out of the story a bit, but overall, I’m glad that I gave it a chance. It even left me with enough of a cliffhanger that I’ll read the next book in the series.
But it was a face, and that's where the animals lived, on the surface of it.The leader of this menagerie is Chauntecleer, the Rooster who keeps his crew under control.
He and his fellow animals inhabit the earth, there to protect against evil (humans have yet to appear).
Mundo Cani the Dog and the heavenly Dun Cow feature prominently, as the Good Ones defend themselves against Wyrm and his Stalin-esque son, Cockatrice.Yes, this is an allegory of human nature, but Wangerin doesn't hit the reader over the head with philosophy.
Book Season = Autumn (respect the rooster)
I'd love to have overheard the conversation between Walt Wangerin Jr. and his editor after the editor first read the manuscript for Dun Cow. Were there comments about market research, about finding an audience or connecting with readers?
(The snippet of an LA Times review that says Dun Cow should be on the shelf beside The Lord of the Rings is foolishness.) Did he attempt to shape the book into something it was not?I'm not sure.
I often think that readers don't know what they want until you give it to them.
That holds true for The Book of the Dun Cow. I didn't know I wanted it until Walt said, in so many words, "Sit down and hush.
I think about this book by asking this question first: did I enjoy it because it had talking animals?
Definitely not.
On the one hand (novel-wise) you have Watership Down, probably the unassailable apex of talking-animal books ...
on the other, Redwall.
The Redwall books, although also populated by talking animals, are only good for a little while before the "hur hur hur" nudge-and-wink to the reader gets irritating.Dun Cow is an apocalyptic epic fable.
It's righteous and layered.
It was obviously a big inspration for White Wolf's original Werewolf RPG.
I was not prepared for what this book ( featuring a talking rooster) would do to my poor heart. The best battle scene I have ever read, sorrow to match King David's, the putrid nature of sin, the glories of our little efforts in the war against the flesh and the devil, the comfort of the Holy Spirit..... No, I'm not overdoing it. Truly, it's all here in this incredible book.
The struggle to be brave in the face of evil and danger, the temptation to give up and think there is no hope, the tendency to minimize the talents and strengths of others, I could relate to it all.I'm interested to see how it all turns out!Updated: Okay, now that I've finished and read the author's afterward, I can tell you that this is NOT an allegory, but more akin to a "beast fable."I'm still thinking about the ideas and questions that were stirred up in my mind from the reading this one!
It is nothing like Watership Down, which is a hero quest for rabbits, but instead in more of the tradition of Aesop or the medieval tales featuring Reynard.
It owes much to Chaucer, and not just the name of the protagonist, Chanticleer.
The basic plot of the story is the threat to Chanticleer’s realm, his barnyard and surrounding area.
Is it a logical tale?
It is an allegory, but in many ways, it is the best type of allegory, one that doesn’t lecture.
It is a religious (largely Christian though it is loose involved to be simply God of any type) allegory but not heavy handed in the way that C.
Just by loving each other and hoping in their Creator God, a little community of farm and forest animals unknowingly holds at bay the great evil of Wyrm, imprisoned under the earth.
When Wyrm sets to the task of freeing himself by destroying their love and hope: attacking them with an army of Basilisks serpents, it is up to the animals and their rooster leader, Chautecleer, to defend their community with their lives.
There's lots of little life lessons, especially for leaders.
Holding together a rag-tag group as diverse as a group of farm and forest animals is a real challenge for these fictional characters as sure as it is for people to be together in real life.
A retelling of the Aesop's Fable Chauntecleer and the Fox. It's both epic and personal and every page propels you forward. I just couldn't put it down. I recommend this for Watership Down fans, Tolkien.....a great good vs. evil read... This book is for the faithful, for the believers in hope, in the possibility of good in us all. Yet there is something almost painfully sweet about the depth this story goes and how it will sound in your heart.....all contained in a barnyard, on the shoulders of animals.
Read this in my early college days. I remember liking it then; not so sure I'd like it as much now.
Wangerin says he derived inspiration from Chaucer's "The Nun's Priest's Tale" along with the bestiaries of the Middle Ages, Mallory's Morte D'Arthur, and Face of Battle, by John Keegan.
Chauntecleer's character reveals what is good (and evil) about leadership and humanity in general.
The rest of the cast is filled out by a menagerie of characters with virtues and vices as varied as their species: John Wesley Weasel, Mundo Cani the boot-nosed dog, Beautiful Pertelote the hen, the evil Cockatrice, they mysterious Wyrm, and the essential Dun Cow. So intriguing!
The Los Angeles Times says "The Book of the Dun Cow belongs on the shelf with...
I had never heard of this book or its author before it showed up on my church book club list for this month.
This book is a "beast fable" about a kingdom ruled over by the rooster Chauntecleer and was intended as an investigation of "evils external to human systems" (author comment in Afterword).
The writer is a Christian and a medievalist.
This novel is quite complex and draws from various literary works.
Wangerin's characters are vividly drawn and it is an excellent portrayal of good versus evil.
I would not have picked it up on my own, but am glad that I read it.
Odd and exhilarating with a moving ending, but left me a little cold.
Winner of the 1980 National Book Award in the category of Science Fiction (soft cover division), Walter Wangerin, Jr.'s The Book of the Dun Cow, is a work like no other.In a fanciful plot set-up where the sun revolves around the earth, thereby enabling the animal inhabitants to have a humanness and clarity of voice, thought and feeling all their own, life is as it is for all human beings in present day times: work, family, eating, play time, et cetera.
Haven't read a book like it in a while. Mundo Cani Dog is love!
Dun Cow recognizes the heroic, sacrificial actions of imperfect animals for the good of the rest in order to hold back and defeat evil.
There are many layers in this book that are worth noting, but for me what stood out was the aspect of ordinary people (animals) going about the liturgies of everyday life in conscious recognition of and gratitude toward God for his graces (big and little) that holds evil at bay in the world.
It’s similar in this way to the Redwall books by Brian Jacques, not merely because both are animal stories, but because each take a weak, maligned creature and use them as a hero.
In this case it is a somewhat vain and oft solipsistic Rooster (he is not a traditional, pure hero, but is neither an antihero – he simply struggles with sin like the rest of us, but is capable of doing the right thing), the wonderful John Wesley Weasel, and a host of other animals I would not think of when I would consider a grand fight between Good and Evil.
A true departure in the types of books I've been reading lately. This fanciful allegory quickly becomes a struggle of good verses evil. The kicker is that the participants seem so caught up in their individuals lives, they don't even recognize evil until it is already in the door. Heart wrenching battles, miscommunications, faith, unexpected loyalties, courage, selflessness, greed, disappointments. An interesting commentary on human nature.
In 1978, my hippie older brother graduated high school, movie versions of both LOTR and  Run, Hazel. Something mediocre this way comes.  Watership Down premiered, and this sucky, self-important series hit the paperback stands in a cynical attempt to cash in. It is the most joyless talking-animal series imaginable, and unforgivably pretentious to boot. Sure, you could read this, but why don't you go read something good instead?
Great prose, ends too easilyCatchy, well-written prose. Some language. Would like to see more depth on the supporting characters like the dog and the cow. Ends a little too easily in my opinion.
I can't say I really understood the book but I enjoyed it anyways. Part of the reason I couldn't follow too much of the story may be my unfamiliarity with medieval literature. I especially liked the rooster character and how honestly he was written. His compassionate heart despite his irritable demeanor was interesting. Also I found it interesting how stupidly the turkeys were portrayed to be. After enough encounters with the birds, I would only ever imagine describing them as terrifying blue-faced warriors.
Review coming soon!
Amazing book. Don’t judge it by its cover. Absolutely worth a read.
The climax of the story involves Chauntecleer, the mysterious Dun Cow, and the surprising Mundo Cani Dog.The tale explores the question of how a seemingly ordinary figure rises to extraordinary heroism answering a call that seems to come from both within and above.We also see a tale of the conflict of good and evil, in which the beasts, who are in fact the keepers of the earth, must forsake the ordinary loves of daily life for extraordinary peril to preserve the order of the universe.
The Dun Cow herself rarely appears (and even more rarely speaks) in the book, but the role she plays — which I'll leave you to discover for yourself — points us to the greatest reality of all.I frequently found myself reading portions of this book to my wife, just for the sheer fun of hearing the story out loud!
Along with another "beast epic", Watership Down (see my review), this book has firmly planted itself on my list of novels to read and re-read many times.
"I'm giving you this book because I've always wanted to read it myself," he said.
It was slow going.It took me about 72 pages before I realized the book was genius.The Book of the Dun Cow follows the adventure of Chauntecleer the Rooster, leader of his section of the animal world.
It's about their first encounter with Evil, and how Chauntecleer and his animals seek to push it back underground.
But Wangerin's sharp, simple writing was really irresistible.
Just genius.There are two other books in the series and I can't wait to read them.
Thank you Aubrey for introducing me to Wangerin!
Perfect Musical Pairing for this whole series: The Light by Disturbed----------------------My head is still buzzing after finishing this book only minutes ago, and any of my fangirly ramblings of joy and adoration simply could not do this fantastic book justice.There are a lot of books I've read that I enjoy, but would not recommend to anyone that I know, or would recommend only to certain people.
(hide spoiler)]I'll come back and finish this review this later, once I get my head on straight and I'm able to make a better attempt at properly explaining how AWESOME this book is.
