https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14384.A_Hunger_Like_No_Other

We have the innocent half vampire girl chased all over town by psycho madman who makes several starts to raping the terrified girl and has her crying and begging, then lo and behold just as he is about to 'do' her she suddenly feels desire for him and off we head to lovey dovey land despite him treating her like shit.
So if you enjoy this kind of book I'm not trying to say there is something wrong with you!
I'm not trying to say there is something wrong with the author for writing this plot.
If you like the author and the plot, please continue to do so and just ignore my venting!***
Which is not bad, considering I've been on a serious adult pnr break lately after trying a few I didn't like.
We laugh at it, we find it far-fetched, we'd hate it if any man in real life treated us like this, but darnit...it's fun to read about in books.2.
And our heroine in this story did, in fact, school her man.Who I'd recommend this book to :People who don't mind aggressive alphas in their pnr and can forgive some serious bad behavior if the hero shows some sign of remorse or willingness to change later.Who I'd warn away from the book :Anyone who has a previous history of abuse, whether physical or sexual.
At the end of the night, I was excited to get into bed and curl up and revisit Lachlain and Emma's love story, reading late into the night.LachlainLachlain remains one of my fall time favorite paranormal heroes (and probably of all time).
I wasn't a huge fan of vampire romance prior to reading this (this being one of the first I read at the time), but the scenes in which Lachlain feeds Emma show how powerful that is between a mated pair, and it's sexy, and not gross like I always thought it would be.
This book had a slow start, but finished with a bang!spoilers  Lachlain was crazy out of his mind from years and years of being burned alive and tortured by a vampire horde so for about 1/4 of the book he was a asshat...
but as his mind starts to heal and he starts to get to know Emma he feels guilt over the way he has treated her and starts trying to win her love and trust.
Emma is super shy, timid, and lets people walk all over her.
She was raised in a house that hates vampires and being 1/2 v
Lachlain was crazy out of his mind from years and years of being burned alive and tortured by a vampire horde so for about 1/4 of the book he was a asshat...
but as his mind starts to heal and he starts to get to know Emma he feels guilt over the way he has treated her and starts trying to win her love and trust.
Emma is super shy, timid, and lets people walk all over her.
She starts feeding from Lachlain and she starts coming out of her shell and because a stronger woman she learns to fight for herself and those she loves.
But, though I was immediately horrified, the book also somehow managed to hold my attention and the writing style, a strange interest in the plot, and a morbid fascination in this destructive relationship forced me to read on.I'm not at all in favour of this kind of unhealthy relationship where the guy relentlessly pursues a woman, scares her into submission, and attempts to rape her so many times that she eventually decides he's kinda hot.
This is not a romance, it's the story of one person completely taking over the life of another, refusing to let them make any decisions for themselves and calling it love.Can someone actually let me know why so many rate this book highly?
“When he watched her sleeping, he often thought, My heart lies vulnerable outside my chest.”  I've purchased this book again because of the stunning cover. I read A Hunger Like No Other first time two years ago. I was in awe then for the start that the hero, Lachlain, is chasing after the heroine with fury in his heart. Emma is very innocent, all her life she tries to find her lost father and she gets nothing from her search; however, she hardly wants to give up. Furthermore, Lachlain makes lif
Emma is very innocent, all her life she tries to find her lost father and she gets nothing from her search; however, she hardly wants to give up.
Furthermore, Lachlain makes life a living hell of her, Emma haven't known what he wants even though the passion between is slowly building up, he confines her and has no plan to let her go.
While Emma is definitely Belle, I dare not say that Lachlain is the Beast for his actions that aren't heroic or highly appreciated at all.
Emma is so shy when I started reading this book, but in the end, she is brave and kickass and independent.
Lachlain MacRieve(Lykae) & Emmaline Troy (half Valkyrie/half vampire)"Vampires, Valkirie, and Lykae, oh my.
The 'fucking monster mash'"Lachlain has just discovered his mate in Paris and he is not sure if he wants her.
It felt like Lachlain and Emma are part of a motion picture, something close to the “An American Werewolf in Paris” :)Overall I enjoyed the story, although there were times that I was feeling frustrated with all the misunderstandings:-Emma does not tell Lachlain that she is not exactly a bloodthirsty, sexthirsty vampire.
But that she half Valkyrie/half Vampire.
And a virgin.- Lachlain does not tell her that she is his destined mate and he treats her like garbage because she is the enemy.As a result there are two distinct parts in the book.
When he watched her sleeping, he often thought, My heart lies vulnerable outside my chest.  Lachlain MacRieveLachlain is the King of the Lykae (werewolves) and has spent the last one hundred and fifty years chained under the streets of Paris by an open fire. He burns to death daily, only to regenerate and suffer that cruel death over and over again. His torture at the hands of the vampire horde has no end in site until he smells his mate. But Lachlain has gone insane and his only desire is to e
With her genes, Emma should be fierce and strong, but she is afraid of her own shadow.
In a brief moment of bravery, she travels to Paris alone hoping to discover the identity of her vampire father.
I love this world of Vampires, Werewolves, Valkyrie, and Witches…It's a Paranormal romance fan's dream come true.My Immortals After Dark Reviews:The Warlord Wants ForeverA Hunger Like No OtherNo Rest for the WickedWicked Deeds on a Winter's NightDark Needs at Night's Edge Dark Desires After DuskKiss of a Demon KingUntouchablePleasure of a Dark PrinceDemon from the DarkDreams of a Dark WarriorLothaireDark Skye
"Vampires, Valkyrie, and Lykae, oh my. Or as Regin calls it—the ‘fucking monster mash.’ Hilarity ensued."  I found myself in deep water: first I was confused by the many different creatures, their characterization and history. The story is fast-paced, and Kresley Cole’s wicked humor made me devoted to the series. So far, it was the most comical father-murder I’ve ever read. I was especially delighted at the appearance of Nïx, my most favorite character ever.I really love this unique and comple
How she keeps the multiple story lines in hand is really fascinating.Lachlain and Emma are bonded together by blood, fate and instincts.Lachlain is infuriated by the fact that Emma is partly a vampire, but as the story progresses, he suddenly catches himself forgetting about it.
Lachlain’s desire for Emma is so strong that it helps him to stay sane after being tortured for 150 years.
But she has hidden assets.There is a beast not only in Lachlain, but in Emma as well.
His blood, memories, instincts are catalysts for her alteration.The gentle, fearful Emma becomes a strong, confident, wily warrior.KinevaneVal Hall - Special thanks to Stacia Villota for the picture.
One of them is reluctant & fights the attraction by usually believing something not true about the person, about 50% through the book is when something sexual happens - so they either have sex for the 1st time OR something big sexually happens but they don't have sex.If they don't have sex @ the 50% mark - more misunderstanding high-jinks ensue until about 70-79% When the deed is actually done.At 80% the big bad starts to be dealt with.
The man is very Alpha & grunts his speech 1/2 the time but he is a hell of a lot better than her & her insane family.
You don’t have to read that short story to understand A Hunger Like No Other, but I did and I think it helps to get a better grasp of the overall scenario as some events in the two stories take place at the same time.Lachlain MacRieve is the Lykae King, a 1,200-year-old werewolf who’s been searching for his mate for a long, long time.
His "beast" wants to claim Emma as his mate, but he’s having a hard time reconciling the fact that she’s a vampire.
I am going to keep this short and sweet because I am eager to get back to 'KC-land'!!Maybe because I've been craving something different or maybe because Kresley Cole has such excellent way with words but I love being lost in this magical world she created so masterfully and don't want to find my way out any time soon!
At this point [in this series especially!] I don't even care WHOSE book it is - I just want to keep on reading!
If you haven't yet experienced the magic of Kresley Cole's writing, do it NOW!
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads.After a lot of arm twisting by fellow readers, getting hooked on Cole’s writing via THE ARCANA CHRONILES, and listening to a sample of Robert Petkoff’s orgasm worthy narration; I finally caved and committed myself to yet another series addiction.
The plot wasn’t exactly cutting-edge, but enough secondary threads were brought in to keep IMMORTALS AFTER DARK going for a good long while.As much as I enjoy Cole’s writing style, it was Robert Petkoff’s come-hither brogue that made thirteen+ IAD installments seem like a walk in the park.
For that reason, I recommend reading The Warlord Wants Forever first, even though it's a more of a short story than a full installment.In A Hunger Like No Other, we meet Emmaline Troy, a Valkyrie/vampire hybrid, and Lachlain MacRieve, King of the Lykae.Emma is in Paris looking for information about her father.Her Valkyrie mother died of HEARTBREAK shortly after Emma was born, never revealing to anyone who the father of her child was.
3 1/2 to 4 starsOverall I really enjoyed reading A Hunger Like No Other, the first full-length book in the Immortals After Dark series by Kresley Cole.
Although this paranormal world is complex, Ms. Cole has the ability to easily explain her intricate world to the reader, making this book an enjoyable read.
I will also admit to being a little annoyed with the slow developing progress of the relationship between the hero and heroine and their constant bickering; however, I also understand that the author used their relationship as a tool to flesh out her world in this first full-lenght book of the series.
Love this book.
It's probably my second best in the series (nothing can surpass Lothaire so far, maybe when Nix's story comes out).LachlainEmmalineLachlain and Emma are so sweet together.
Emma is cute and kind.
She finds her badassness along the way but she doesn't lose her innosence.The story is lovely.
I WANT NIX'S BOOK.
I will be re-reading all my favs in the series in the near future because I missed them.<3**************22/04/2014**************Re-read it as part of the IAD series Read-A-Long with the League of Lusty Ladies.This book never loses its shine!
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Might contain spoilers*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱  Re-read: 15.05.17 Why I found myself re-reading this one, I have no idea. But I sat at the airport and I just wanted to give it another shot, to see if I like it better this time around... Lachlain MacRieve (1200?) and Emmaline Troy (71?) are mates. Not as in Australian mate for 'buddy', but mates as in fated ones. However, having just escaped from the torture from the vampire horde (150 years?), Lachlain isn't all that happy with having a vampire mate. Alt
Lachlain MacRieve (1200?) and Emmaline Troy (71?) are mates.
There's a somewhat insta-love here, as well as fated/true mates.
Overall, it's a alright read, specially if you like a female character finding herself, becoming the woman she's meant to be and a man realizing revenge isn't everything, but not the best paranormal romance out there.
(hide spoiler)]Cheating?
(hide spoiler)]HEA?
- (view spoiler)[Yes.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite character?
- Lachlain MacRieve.Would I read more by this author/or of series?
- Yes.Would I recommend this book/series?
- No.Rating - 2.5/3 stars.First read review:I liked it, but I didn't...get it?Rate: 2.5/3 stars.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
(Not least of which because even he keeps forgetting she’s a vampire because she doesn’t act *anything* like a vampire.) And hatred for someone’s race isn’t a good enough reason for behaving badly anyway.Basically for the first half of the book Lachlain acts like Emma’s his sex toy or possession (*his* mate to do with as *he* wishes) rather a person who might have thoughts or feelings of her own.
The second half of the book, after one of Emma’s aunts threatens him, he suddenly starts acting a little better.
Emma’s the only half-way original character and we don’t get nearly enough insight into her.
Well, this was my second book by Kresley Cole.
I was slightly hesitant to pick it up, considering I wasn't much impressed with 'The Warlord Wants Forever'.
But somehow, it turned out better than I thought it would.
However, my only problem was Lachlain and Emmaline's first time having sex.
It seemed way too rushed, just like when she felt it was time so it was time!?
Too easy like that?
It didn't make sense to me.
Well, this wasn't romantic at all!By the way, I found myself enjoying this book for the most part.
Will probably continue with the series.
Aunque el libro puede estar bien, no es la historia que esperaba leer...
First full length novel in Cole's paranormal romance series Immortals After Dark, (second overall), A Hunger Like No Other is a gold mine of uber-alpha, destined-for-each other, sexy reading.When Lachlain scents his mate while hidden below the streets of Paris, he does the impossible- he breaks the chains that have kept him imprisoned for 150 years and goes after her.
However, she writes them SO alpha, I often cringe at their antics, which tend to come off as bullying.Just as when I read If You Dare, 1st in a historical romance series by this author, I wasn't sure if I would ever like the hero ...
I have to confess that Emmaline Troy is one of my favorite heroines in a paranormal romance.
Sometimes-only sometimes -I get especially tired of books where the heroine is the feisty, aggressive person right from the get-go.
It is sometimes more interesting to see a meek personality like Emma develop.
She doesn’t have a dog like most of my favorite heroines do…but wait, I forgot, Lachlain MacRieve fits that bill.
:)I also have to confess that, up until Emma, I didn't read a lot of paranormal romances.
I had read all of Kresley Cole's books.
That is another reason this is on my 'all-time-favorites' bookshelf.
I can't wait for the wedding day film reel...so romantic." Jenn (see full review)I'll admit I have a problem with this violent alpha male thing treating women like trash, even when the woman is smart and strong and doesn't let it affect her self-esteem.
And you still very much want them to be together because they are true equals.I know it really isn't the same genre, it's not a romance series so the romance is spread throughout several books before culmination but the idea is that women don't have to be whipped into submission to be with a powerful man.
Written September 11, 20144 stars - Romantic, blood dripping, steamy alpha man heat and a really exciting paranormal worldBook #2 in the Immortal After Dark series       I read the first shorter prequel intro novel, #1 - The Warlord Wants Forever (3.5 stars) in this series back in February 2013 and liked it. It felt like a good start to a steamy paranormal series with new couples in every book. ...Then I bought this second part A Hunger Like No Other and #3 - No Rest for the Wicked last spring o
Written September 11, 20144 stars - Romantic, blood dripping, steamy alpha man heat and a really exciting paranormal worldBook #2 in the Immortal After Dark series
It felt like a good start to a steamy paranormal series with new couples in every book.
Was it a good one?Absolutely, I liked this and there will be more books or audio books in this series to come for me.***********************************************This grand love-story starts when Lachlain, a prisoner since over hundreds years, chained by cruel vampires deep in the burning hell in the old Paris Catacombs, hear and feel, that his chosen MATE at last is nearby up there on the streets of Paris.
I hate this book more than I've hated any other book in a long time.At first I really liked the idea of a vampire character who is so gentle she refuses to fight or kill or drink from a live being.
(Note: if you look really menacing, concierges at fancy Parisian hotels will let you use an AmEx Black card with a woman's name on it, even if you are a man who has been trapped at the gates of hell for a thousand years.) And then he performs oral sex on her while she sleeps.Did I mention that she's a 70-year-old virgin who's never even had a kiss?But I guess the almighty mating bond (a trope I am so very tired of seeing) really does conquer all.
After I gave up trying to understand all the confusing terminology, i.e.--Horde, Lore, Valkyries, Lykae, Furiae, Forbearers,etc.-- and concentrated on the love story between the hero Lachlain and heroine Emmaline, I was able to enjoy this rather hot and often humorous story.
I did like the hero and heroine; I thought Lachlain desire for Emma was kind of hot, and while Emma's timidness got on my nerves at times, I liked her more and more as the story developed.
All in all, not a bad read--I'm hoping the other books in the series are a little less confusing, and still have a humorous edge to them!
Maybe it was because I wasn't expecting much, but it's more likely because the previous couple of books in this genre that I read - Be Still My Vampire Heart and Guilty Pleasures - were unremarkable and boring, in that order, that I enjoyed this so much.
Cole separated perspectives clearly, which I appreciate: it gives you a breather from one character's thoughts and get to see what else is going on without getting confused (something I hate about Feehan's books).
The Lykae and vampires were natural-born enemies---had been since the first nebulous chaos of the Lore.Blood adversaries. Embarrassing tidbit about me, I can't shake my love of Disney's Beauty and the Beast. What a horrible message to send out to little girls and boys but there you have it, I'll be there opening night when the live action movie comes out. A Hunger Like No Other, yeah, it's pretty much Beauty and the Beast, sexified. Sure, there's a whole Lore world with valkyries, wraiths, ghou
Lachlain was chained and burned (werewolves are immortal so he could heal himself) for 150 yrs but when he scents his mate (Emma!) he breaks free, our fierce Beast.
Emma is fairly young (only 70yrs to Lachlains 1200) and has been incredibly sheltered, so she's our uber innocent Beauty.
The writing is good, if a little immature and the world building definitely needs to be organized and flushed out more, but as this is first in the series, I have hopes the author will mature and gain her stride.Whether it was the Beauty and the Beast feel to it or the writing/story itself, I couldn't make myself stop reading and I plan on reading the rest in the series.
