https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/204250.An_Autobiography
But, what I can do share with you, on the other side, are the feelings from a person who can experience some of the most delightful moments as I listen to the musical compositions of Igor Stravinsky since I ever heard “The Rite of Spring” for the first time.
Therefore, he gives very sharp and harsh criticism of the musical compositions of many of his friends at that time and of the great composers that lived before his era (Beethoven, Mozart and Tchaikovsky).
It was interesting to read that he began to enjoy Beethoven late in his life until he committed to fully understand the essence of his music by studying every detail behind his symphonies.
The Kindle edition is available for free on Amazon and I’m glad I didn’t spend money on it.The autobiography was mainly about his work and people he knew.
I’m not sure why, but I did read it to the end.
There were two small sections near the end that made the read somewhat worthwhile.
I would agree that audiences and ways of listening have changed, even though I don’t agree with Stravinsky’s conclusions.The other interesting section was a few words that Stravinsky wrote about writing music and inspiration.
Did these sections make it worth reading?
This book begins with a memory of young Stravinsky's obsession with a kind of "music" constructed mainly from tongue-clicking and armpit farts. The more I think of this, the more it strikes me as a profound & wonderful description of Stravinsky & his works.I didn't get very much farther into this book than that, though; Stravinsky is not one of those rare musicians with a talent for scintillating prose. Who cares, though?
Fascinating insight into the composer and his strong opinions on many subjects including Wagner and how to correctly listen to music (watch the performers!)
Adoro Igor! La sua capacità di rinnovarsi costantemente, andando alla ricerca di nuovi stimoli artistici e professionali e la sua apertura al nuovo, anche quando fa paura (1935: radio, prime incisioni).
Stravinsky wrote this short book to air his views on his development as a composer and the performance of his music.
His pet peeve was that conductors should play his music, not interpret it (to this end he recorded his music on vinyl, but to his dismay most conductors ignored the recordings to do their own thing).
He also disliked reading anything into musical compositions, and disliked the whole circus of interpretations around composers like Beethoven, just listen to it!
His writing is very informative, detailing the process of matching the dance choreography, and stag décor and costumes to the music, and shows how international the music scene was with performances all over Europe and the USA.
The “Autobiography” is quite short, almost a sketch, but that might be a good thing.
Studying with Rimsky-Korsakov might be important but so is getting married.We do learn many of the composer's viewpoints on things and people.
Stravinsky certainly held some strong opinions — opinions that we might or might not find ourselves in agreement with, but are a good illustration of a 'Modernist' mindset.Be that as it may, Stravinsky was the most important composer of his time, and his little memoir is worth the read, both as a look at the man and his times.
It feels like a very sincere account of what he has gone through during the beginning and development of his career even though it ends midway.
The reading is quite relaxed with certain parts requiring extra musical knowledge.
One thing that has caught my eye is that there were several key opinions he went about time after time during the book and his general avoidance of saying negative things about people.
For an outsider, it would seem like Stravinsky is either the most optimist and friendly person around.
He was certainly a positive one, but his critism seemed exceptionally lenient in certain cases.
Fascinating book. Read this book many years ago in college. The idea that lives with me still is an anecdote Stravinksy relates in the book. Seems he was traveling by train in Europe during WW2. His baggage was examined and he was detained and questioned because of a portrait of him done by Picasso. The military guards could not believe that it was a human face. They thought that it was some kind of diagram or secret plans!
It's hard to know what you've got ahold of when you are reading an uncredited translation of a ghostwritten French memoir, but enough of what feels like authentic Stravinsky seems to come through to make this book worth while. It is especially fun to note where his compositional practice contradicts what he asserts as dogma here.
a bit dry throughout most of the book. Stravinsky was very opinionated and from time to time it bleeds through into his writing. one thing this book WILL give you is an extraordinary, vocabularic workout. saw a few words for the first time. Thank you, Tino and Noah for reading the last 5% or so. if you are looking for a challenge and like Stravinsky's music, this book is for you.
Читаю его автобиографию и в это же время слушаю лекции TTC - Robert Greenberg - Igor Stravinsky. Интересно сравнивать что человек говорит о себе и как это было на самом деле. Стравинский как композитор гораздо интереснее Стравинского-писателя, это и так понятно. Очень мне нравится его музыка, прям в унисон с моей "душой".
I really found this book fascinating. Lots of funny tidbits. Lot's of insights. Lots of crystal clear stuff as well as "foggy" musings.Read the rest of the review on my blog, and don't forget to listen to my relaxing, dulcet compositions as you read! Read the complete review here.
It's interesting and important to hear a composer's point of view on his music and events, so this book has some significance. But it also has pit-falls. It's no wonder Stravinsy wasn't a writer. He's very sardonic and clearly genious, but he doesn't explain his opinions very conclusively.
Nogal droog opgeschreven autobiografie van Stravinsky, waaruit men nauwelijks iets over hemzelf te weten komt, behalve dan wanneer hij wat deed en naar wie zijn dank uitgaat. De felle ergernis over Nijinski's uitvoering van de sacre is een uitzondering.
Fascinating. As a clarinetist and longtime admirer of l'histoire d'un soldat, I was charmed to hear his story of how it came to be written in the depths of WWI. Stravinsky was a genius in the last great era of serious music.
A very interesting insight into one of my favorite composers. I would only recommend it if you have a solid background of early 20th century music, since Stravinsky talks at length about other composers and musicians.
It was an okay read. Stravinsky was a very opinionated man. I mostly just liked the details surrounding the production of his ballets.
Very insightful and very valuable to anyone interested in Stravinsky or in pursuing any sort of artistic career.
Interesting, strangely defensive. Discusses his music far more than his life. Only read if you are familiar with his compositions.
Very interesting look at music in the first decades of the 20th century.
stravinsky had cool friends.
Passionnant et plein d'humour.
