https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46707.This_Is_My_Beloved
I first read Walter Benton's "This Is My Beloved" over 25 years ago. I now own a new copy as well as his book dramatically read to music by Arthur Prysock. This book is for all romantics and a good read.
That question really should have been answered by these lines from the very first poem in the book: "Because hate is legislated...written into/ the primer and the testament,/ shot into our blood and brain like vaccine or vitamins...I need love more than ever now..." There's no doubt that Benton, who was born in Austria and lived later in the United States, was writing as an individual.
Similarly, the great jazz and pop singer Arthur Prysock recorded what is now a classic spoken word version of the book (please see related CD review at Creative Thinkers International) in December 1968 when the Vietnam War had the world in tears.
I had opened it and read an entry at random (it is written in diary/journal format).
It may have been the entry about his needing to continually re-forget his lover as every season reminds him of her that luanched me into sobbing like I haven't since my own last loss of love, and much longer before that, obviously, some sleeping sense of loss in my own life was triggered by his way of expressing his still-new despair of separation.
Benton's words are fire to the soul. How do you read this dispassionately?
I'm going to be perfectly honest in this review: I know nothing about the identity of Walter Benton, Lillian, or the nature of their relationship other than what is depicted in this brief work, nor do I wish to seek out any more information.
The structure of the book didn't bother me at all; I found this little story of love poems to be quite entertaining.
I mean, after reading all of Benton's love poems, all I really know is that he thought that Lillian had a very attractive body, and that he enjoyed making love with her.
My favorite book of poetry, ever. Very controversial at the time it was written.
Another randomly selected book of poetry, an activity that doesn't always pay dividends, but this time it did.This is the second book of poetry I've read this year with overt sexual content, the other being Kate Tempest's Running Upon the Wires: Poems.
I wasn't so keen on Tempest's collection (the first of hers I've read and didn't immediately take to), but Benton's sexual reference seem softer, more tender and poetic, even when they are not hidden behind poetical allusion, which they often are.
seductive, sensual, alluring- beautiful poems delicately and in the same time powerfully embracing our senses and imagination...May 4"Darling, good morning.
Lie still … we shall be longer......"Entry May 25"Or when your gown loosens, falls off the small fierce faces of your breasts,as the cowl falls off the face of a hunter’s falcon … I attend, nerve-naked.
Your dress lies against the cheeks and hollow of your thighs like running water.Your breasts nod yes each step, your slow involute hips cradle the eternal synonym for God.
Yes, your body makes eyes at me from every salient, promises warm, lavish promises — curved, colored … finished in warm velvet, like baby rabbits."
This is a book of poetry which I don't normally read. However, I bought a 1945 edition at an estate sale. I sat down to "flip through" it and discovered it was a diary written in verse. A little difficult reading at first - haven't read much poetry (especially not a whole book) since college days. Enjoyed reading it during the recent cold spell, wrapped in a comfy blanket.
Erotic love poetry that doesn't border on the lewd or the silly. An idealized love, love comes in the first part, in the 2nd, 3rd and 4th love has left, without drama, without fights, without the ugliness. A veil is drawn straight to reminiscence, the chance encounter, and the longing. Not a bad way to spend an afternoon.
Is it a strange coincident or is it possible that this book by Walter Benton is the same of "The Songs of Solomon" from the Old Testament? I found too many obvious parallels. With all the reviews and critiques I'm amazed no one as drawn the same conclusion. Maybe everyone is thrown off by some of the graphic language. Of course The Songs of Solomon was very graphic in is day. What do U think?
Beautifully haunting and hauntingly beautiful, the verse in this collection could only have flowed from an epically open heart. Benton's sensual description is as tender as his heartbreak is real. Almost too rending to read.
It's love in its truest raw form. I read it when I met my first love and I read it now 6 years later and having learned a lot in life and love. It's bittersweet personally and literarily .
Beautiful book with love on each page. Very happy that I took the time to track this book down.
lovely. not all the time startling in their originality, but beautiful love poems always.
best first page poem ever, four and a half stars
If you're unfortunate enough to experience unrequited love, this book is your heart's anthem. Beautiful, moving and heartbreaking all at once.
My all time favorite book of all time.
sexy.
People in falling in love cherish the experiences these poems bring.
Beautifully written.....
Read this book in 1969 and still do when I need some pointers on Love quotes it works
a favorite... hard to find!
My inner hopeless romantic is pleased.
Beautiful.
Long ago I was reading these profound poems after stumbling on the book in a library. Reading these astonishing works was amazing enough alone. BUT THEN< the poem I was reading, was being read on the radio recorded to jazz - simultaneously. One of the most profound experiences of synchronicity in my life.
Not sure how I would feel about this today. Was a big fan back when I was 18 and getting high all the time.
