https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/491569.Cherry_Ames_Private_Duty_Nurse
I honestly did not enjoy this book much at all -- and that was mainly because of the main plot/setting/mystery.
The mystery was actually pretty good for a Cherry Ames book, but the infodump at the end bored me.
I did enjoy the second chapter of the book where Cherry visited the family and the mom with pneumonia, even though it seemed rather pointless.
I was thinking along the lines of insta-love with Charlie's friend from the army until the end of the chapters where Cherry got together with her friends at her house.
Overall, I didn't enjoy this book very much.
A little slow but entertaining
Dr. Joe tells Cherry she needs to take it easy for a while to recover from the war so she takes on a job as a private duty nurse (well, relatively easy, I guess.)She gets in a situation which is somewhat similar to the Mountaineer Nurse book where the people are rather backwards and unfriendly and don't trust doctors or medicines.
She ends up then taking a job for elsewhere with a pianist who is very highly strung and very famous.There's more seance-going and a mystery that involves blackmail.
Cherry gets trapped by some crooks but manages to get away and the seance-going is tied into the mystery.
In this next installment of Cherry Ames nursing adventures, she is a private nurse for a celebrity pianist. This one had the best mystery wound in of all the books in the series so far! I was just fascinated with the incorporation of "fortune tellers" into the story line, because at the time this was written, that was a pretty popular thing. And most of the time these "fortune tellers" had mostly tricks up their sleeve than actually supernatural abilities.
My godmother, the nurse, kept giving me these books, to inspire me to become a nurse. In those years, the choices for a woman were teacher, nurse, housewife, I chose teacher. The nurses in these books were always so subservient to the doctors, the head nurses, to everyone!
This was a little slow to get started, but once it did, whoa! Cherry works as a nurse for a talented pianist who has what seems like mild autism as well as a heart condition. As the story progresses, on comes the mystery. This adventure was pretty good and very eye opening.
Gradually reading or re-reading the Cherry Ames books. My recollection from reading them as a child was that they combined solving mysteries with the nursing stories. This is the first one in the re-read that felt like a mystery.
Loved the mystery and intrigue and the return of old characters!
Enjoyed these books as a kid and am enjoying them again as an adult. Like the adventures that Cherry has. Looking forward to rest of the series.
Cherry cares for a brilliant pianist who is being blackmailed for something in his past.Cherry solves the mystery and helps her patient.A fun and interesting read.
It took a while to get into this book, but the last 4 or so chapters were very intense and I liked the pacing much better.
