https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10909.The_Tenth_Circle
I like you, I really really do.
I think you are a fun girl to fly with, and I like hanging out with you when no one else is around to make fun of me when they see us together.
But I feel as though our relationship is going the way of Beatrice Sparks.
But this relationship has taken a serious nose dive.
I don't want to lose you the way I lost Bea. Sincerly,LizP.S. I'm having a party this weekend, and we will be playing Rainbow.
Let me know if you want to go.
As a parent, the book really made me question my morals and how far I’d be willing to go to protect my own children.*May contain mild spoilers*Trixie is the fourteen-year-old daughter of Daniel and Laura Stone.
She’s on the floor, disheveled with makeup all over her face, and tells Daniel, “Daddy, he raped me.”While Trixie is dealing with the social repercussions at school after accusing Jason of raping her, Daniel and Laura have their own problems to deal with.
Up until now, I haven’t reread a lot of my books, but leave it to Jodi Picoult to inspire me to do just that!5*****
I would probably equate Jodi Picoult with Applebee's.
Reading a Jodi Picoult novel is like casual dining.
But it's entertaining, it's atmospheric, and it certainly feels at least a bit more upscale.This novel is about a family: a mom, a dad, a daughter, and how they react to the daughter's rape.
And also the dad's past in Alaska.
Basically, there is a LOT going on in this novel.
I felt like the author tried to cram a few too many things into this novel, and in the end was unable to tie up everything nicely.
Although I had read quite a number of Jodi Picoult books, I was doubtful about this one because it included a lot of the material in comic-strip format and I do not like comics or graphic novels at all.
In fact, especially after the tedious writing and despicable characters of Mercy, I was really surprised by some good storytelling and quite well-rounded characterisations.
The research Picoult had put into modern adolescent sexual behaviour and into the lives of native Alaskans really enlivened the book.
Perhaps that is the mark of a good read - when you want it to go on a bit more!
The Tenth Circle by Jodi Picoult is based on a fourteen-year-old girl, Trixie Stone, who is madly in love for the first time with an upper classman named Jason Underhill, who happens to be the star hockey player of the town and well known by everyone.
But after Trixie was convinced by her best friend Zephyr that she should make Jason jealous by hitting on other guys and appearing to be easy, she lies to her dad by telling him that she is staying the night with Zephyr and that Zephyr’s mom will be there.
This one really fascinated me. I loved the aspect that brings to question does no really have to be said for it to be rape. Then you had the whole messed up family aspect as an undertone. Overall, the characters were mostly likeable but it is the debate of the themes of the book that really keep you grasping for the next page. On to my next Jodi Picoult book in my marathon: Harvesting the Heart
WHY do I read these books?
The characters are completely one-dimensional and interchangable (I could have sworn I read this book before...and then I remembered I very nearly had when I read Nineteen Minutes), and they do nothing but spew these incredibly cliched lines about love and loss and watching your children grow up, or some bullshit.
Maybe it wouldn't be bullshit if a) I actually believed in the integrity of the characters enough to care if they lived or died, or b) it weren't written in such overly dramatic, maudlin prose.
Everything is a metaphor.
We can't keep Jodi Picoult on the shelves in the bookstore where I work.
I picked this one up just to see what all the fuss is about and before I knew what was happening I was a hundred pages into it.
Picoult's great strength seems to lie in creating a suspenseful build-up as the reader waits for Devastating Tragedy to descend on her characters.
Unfortunately, she doesn't seem to know what to do after that and covers up by adding one big 'dramatic' plot twist after another.
It could have been saved if the characters had more than one dimension.
In fairness, Picoult doesn't exactly let Laura off the hook for this (in fact, she actually punishes Laura to a degree that rivals Jane Austen at her most judgmental), but it still read an awful lot like Laura Stone is a bit of a stand-in/wish-fulfillment figure for Picoult and her similarly-aged female readers: professionally successful, respected, relatively affluent, with a former Bad Boy as a tamed husband, and some action on the side from a young hottie.Getting back to Daniel -- okay, it's really hard for me to take a comic book artist seriously as a "bad boy," but that's his story.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://youtu.be/RlF_N7E6mpIMais uma grande, grande história da Jodi Picoult.Prendeu-me do inicio ao fim. A única parte de que gostei menos, foi a do Alasca...de resto, adorei tudo!
So I think I'm missing something in Jodi Picoult's writing.
Not that this is a requirement, but I think liking someone or feeling sympathy or empathy for them, makes for good reading.
I'm always expecting it to be something really unexpected that totally changes the story or the way I respond to it, but in the end, it is usually something predictable or typical.About this book in particular, I'd probably rate it the worst of the three I've read.
Too many loose ends, like Seth's involvement in the situation - kind of a stretch.
If you're looking to start reading Picoult, start somewhere else.
I'm always up for a good psychological thriller, and Picoult certainly knows how to pick her topics.
Though this book approaches the topic from an oblique angle, The Tenth Circle is, at its core, a story about family and the strength of those familial bonds.
My main criticism about Picoult's body of work is that her books seem to be too quickly executed with loose ends and unfinished edges left flapping.
Because I've never read Dante, I can't comment on how well Picoult manages to replicate the ten circles of Hell, but enough was explained in the text that even those readers with gaping holes in their education (like myself!) are able to keep up.
But the protaginist-Trixie-ruined even that for me.*spoilers ahead*As a fourteen year old girl-the same age as Trixie-I think I'm being fair in saying she was one of the most unrealistic characters i've ever read.
I've never heard of anybody playing "rainbow" or "daisy chain" or whatever the games were called.
I'm not saying you shouldn't be sad, but I think starting to cut is taking it a little far, and is kind of insulting to people who've struggled with cutting for legit reasons, not just breaking up with their silly sixteen year old boyfriend.
I've always been a fan of comic books.
Of all the characters, I related most to Daniel (perhaps because we share the same name), the comic book artist with the tragic past.
In fact, I liked his character so much that I wish the book had focused more on him.
I especially wished they had spent more time in Alaska.
I think this is just the drawback to a book targeted at young women readers.
Still, I think that in this book, less internal dialogue and more scene building would have made a vast improvement in the book.
Sorprendida, así me he quedado. Porque la novela se inicia de una manera y de pronto da un giro y parece que hablamos de otra cosa, aunque todo queda perfectamente ensamblado al final.Me gusta mucho cómo construye sus protagonistas, las emociones a su alrededor y que se arriesgue a tocar temas delicados.Quizá la protagonista debiera ser Trixie, pero para mí la estrella es su padre, Daniel. Me ha fascinado el personaje.No quiero contar nada más, porque creo que hay que leerla con los menores datos posibles, pero la recomiendo sin dudarlo.
Honestly i hated this one. I hated the whole family who were the main characters. I hated them from the first time they appeared until the end of the book. A lot of the stuff that happened didn't make much sense to me, like how did the father just know that his daughter would run off to alaska? anyway, that's just my opinion but, i hated it.
First, the storyline is not what I thought it was going to be.
I thought it was going to be more about the rape case (judicially), and the family making it through that.Second, I found this a tough topic, being that I have a daughter entering 9th grade.
The first 2/3 of this book, I couldnt put down.I thought for sure that Jason commited suicide.
I questioned early on that Trixie was the one to do it.I was disappointed in the last couple chapters of the book.
That the story ends in Alaska...I found alot of the end was unnecessary rambling about Alaska.
While this book may not be one of Jodi Picoult's best novels, it is nonetheless a very enthralling read. The novel gives you both the point of view from the victim and the accused. It really keeps you guessing as to exactly who is telling the truth! The tale has many completely unexpected twists in the plot that will keep you captivated. Empathetic characters, with a gripping plot, full of twists and turns, that will keep you guessing right up until the end. Fours stars!
Para ser breve: O Décimo Círculo não é nada de especial.
Pouco original e bastante previsível, o livro aborda diversos temas difíceis e de consequências profundas mas fá-lo de forma tão superficial que acaba por nos soar tudo a falso e pouco coerente...
A única originalidade no livro são as tiras de banda desenhada que, embora interessantes, não adicionam nada à história.
Como se não bastasse, dificilmente daremos por nós a simpatizar com estes personagens, o que, para o tipo de história que Picoult nos está a tentar contar, é muito importante.
Depois de ler Lobo Solitário, do qual gostei bastante, fiquei consideravelmente desiludida com este livro de Jodi Picoult.
I know that the author was trying to show how the lines could bnlur on the typically black-and-white issue of rape, but i felt that she was more biased towards Trixie.
In the end we find out that Trixie did nothing to stop Jason, and that from his perspective he thought that she had consented the whole ordeal, but no one seems to care that an innocent boy died.
and the author writes as if the mother was justified in killing Jason.
Yes, Trixie didn't want to have sex with Jason but she did not tell him so and therefore it is her own fault.
I don't know if anyone felt the same way as me?
Time je psihološka karakterizacija uistinu vrhunska jer nam daje pogled u dubinu – mnoge su davno zaboravljene situacije zaslužne upravo za onakav rasplet događaja kakav se dogodio, jer likovi su kompleksni te korijene svog ponašanja i reakcija vuku iz djetinjstva.“No pokazalo se da pakao nije promatranje voljene sobe koja pati; pakao je drugi čin, kad je već prekasno da se bilo što učini.”U ovoj ćete obiteljskoj drami moći sagledati tragediju iz više perspektiva, što priču čini jako zanimljivom i uvjerljivom.

I recently read The Tenth Circle by Jodi Picoult. On the surface the Stone family seems normal and perfect, but as the story continues their relationship falls apart. Daniel works at home as a comic book artist to be a stay at home dad for Trixie, while his wife Laura is a full time college professor. Daniel and Laura seem to put their daughter Trixie before everything else in life until the one time she actually needs her parents they aren’t by her side like she needs them to be.  When the wors
Daniel works at home as a comic book artist to be a stay at home dad for Trixie, while his wife Laura is a full time college professor.
Trixie realizes her mother isn’t the woman she once saw her as, she’s not as close to her as she once was because her mom becomes engulfed in her career among other things besides not staying truthful to her own husband.
After reading this book it really helped in the realization that no one is perfect.
This book is pure popcorn; the sort of thing you read not for the writing or the social impact, but because the story is like a soap opera you can't quite quit.
but the over all book wasn't really literature.
It was like she had several different ideas/books that she tried to meld into one… so it wasn’t cohesive and thus her message/moral was a little blurry.I give it two stars because it wasn't totally devoid of value - I was moderately entertained, but this was cancelled out by the book’s indecisiveness.
firstly, i really liked the comic book theme and the references to Dante's Inferno throughout the book.
starting every chapter with a snippit of the Daniel's comic book was a great way to move the story along, through his eyes and mind.though i have to admit, i figured out the ending about half way through the novel...picoult's books are a bit formulaic.
she's a great author who really knows how to get you inside the mind of a modern family, and experience it's struggles from all sides.i particularly liked the character of Daniel in this novel.
Really good! Jodi always takes a tough topic, in this case it is rape, a case of he-said-she-said, and turns it to keep you guessing of what is actually happening. The whole time, twists and turns kept me second guessing everything. The only thing I didn't enjoy was a section about Alaska. It was strange and didn't make much sense to the story. That's why I knocked off a star. But I always enjoy Jodi and this was no different!
When you read the Acknowledgements at the front of the book, you know The Tenth Circle covers a lot of territory: rape, teenagers, Dante, comic book superheroes, Alaska.
Looks like people don’t think this is one of her better books based on the ratings.
I love it when you are reading a used book that gives you evidence of prior use like having the corners of pages turned down.
But I am thinking that this will be my last Jodi Picoult book because it just wasn’t that good from beginning to end.
Woven throughout the novel are a series of dramatic illustrations that pay homage to the family's patriarch, comic book artist Daniel Stone, and add a unique twist to this gripping story.
While Trixie's dad Daniel notices his daughter's recent change in demeanor, he turns a blind eye, just as he does to the obvious affair his wife Laura, a college professor, is barely trying to conceal.
Laura, who blames her family's unraveling on her selfish affair, must decide how to reconcile her personal desires with her loved ones' needs.
First, what I like about The Tenth Circle: Like the only other Jodi Picoult book I've read (My Sister's Keeper), I think the author does a really good job of picking interesting subject matter, and presents it in a compelling way.
(As the mother of both a son and two daughters, I found the subject of this particular book to be thought-provoking.
And I felt that the situation at the end was presented as a "well, that's that" kind of ending, when it was way more complicated than that.
Overall, a good but not GREAT, book.
Not my favorite of Picoult's books, although I admire her attempt to try something different by the inclusion of the comic (which I skipped over. Sorry). As a writer myself, I'm well aware that not every book can be five-star worthy, and it certainly won't stop me from reading more of Picoult's work.
