https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/435045.Wicked_Deeds_on_a_Winter_s_Night
Who knew that crossing supernatural beings would be so hot!This fourth book in the 'Immortals After Dark' series, tells the story of Bowen and Mari, a werewolf and a powerful witch.
Bowen's family has a long and bitter rivalry with witches.When Bowen begins to feel an attraction toward Mari, he assumes that she has cast a spell on him.
Never in all those years had he felt an attraction to another, so he knows that the witch must be up to something.Believed to be the most powerful witch in her coven, Mari is just beginning to harness her power.
He crossed to her, clasped her upper arms, and pulled her to her feet.Gazing down at her, his voice breaking low, he said, "Doona bring me back to life only to destroy me once more."What a f*cking awesome book!I swear, this series is just getting better and better!!!!I loved Bowen in the previous books and I couldn't wait for his own, and it didn't disappoint! It's my favorite from this series so far and I don't think that will change <3 And again, I LOVE this narrator <3 The way he did Bowen had me melting <3 <3 <3 <3
love this book. Bowen MacRieve: was oh so charming and sexy The way he takes care of Mari. I loved him...... Mariketa the Awaited: She was a super powerful witch that can't control her power. She is funny, and sassy and doesn't let Bowen walk on her but she shows her vulnerability as well.   This book was romantic and action pack and it blew my mind..... What they go through and the Plot twist shock the crap out of my I so didn't see that coming>>>>>>>> The Way Bowen ta
love this book.
Bowen MacRieve: was oh so charming and sexy The way he takes care of Mari.
I loved him......
What they go through and the Plot twist shock the crap out of my I so didn't see that coming>>>>>>>> The Way Bowen talks and the things he says so sexy always talking about her wee hands and wee little witchThe first time the two of them are together Hott until he says the wrong name lol “Fuckhead: The name’s MariKETA.
“I still don’t see why we couldn’t sleep in that cave,” Mari said as MacRieve led her out into the night.“Because my cave’s better than their cave.”  I’ve read the first 8 installments of the Immortals After Dark series, and so far, Bowen and Mariketa’s book is my favorite.It is a very exciting part of the series. The world of the Lore is revealed in more details: its inhabitants, rules, myths, and relations. The story represents deep emotions, hard choices, incredible twists, destiny, prophec
The story represents deep emotions, hard choices, incredible twists, destiny, prophecy, magic, passion, adorable characters, and sparkling dialogues.I loved Bowen and Mariketa’s (not only) verbal archness with each other.
Mariketa is fated to Bowen, and he is also unique for her, because he fulfills the prophecy given to Mariketa.
I was so engaged in the action of the story, as Bowen and Mariketa continually fight with each other, save each other, and fight for each other, that I simply didn’t see what was coming, and I was just shocked by the limitless cruelty and evil of the antagonist.I'm totally in love with Bowen, the "shameless, tricksy wolf".
Mariketa, "the wee, bloody witch" is an amazing character.
“Darwin says people like you need to die.”  Despite the fact that the whole story of Wicked Deeds on a Winter's Night isn't my cuppa after all, I still loved every character Kresley Cole put into this book. Bowen was such a jerk for me when I first met him, he treats Mariketa so bad I wanted to kick his ass then. Mari, on the other hand, is genorous, lovely and tender. She is that type of heroine who is always hurt by a coldhearted hero. I pitied her so damn much and don't understand why I gave
Despite the fact that the whole story of Wicked Deeds on a Winter's Night isn't my cuppa after all, I still loved every character Kresley Cole put into this book.
I pitied her so damn much and don't understand why I gave this book five stars even though it's not my taste.
Maybe it's because of the dynamic between the main characters that beat me up, or the sex scenes being so damn hot I fanned my face all the time while I was reading.
She and her friends made Girls Gone Wild look like a quilting circle.”
Bowen MacRieve, Lykae & Mariketa the Awaited, Witch “You could almost make me forget what I really want.” 1200 years old Lykae Bowen has known exactly what he wants for a few centuries now.And this is definitely NOT the 23 years old distracting, distrusting and destructing witch Mariketa.His only goal is getting back to winter of 1827 and save his mate who run away from him during a full moon night when she saw his monster and she was killed by an accident. His beautiful, fragile, perfect, f
1200 years old Lykae Bowen has known exactly what he wants for a few centuries now.And this is definitely NOT the 23 years old distracting, distrusting and destructing witch Mariketa.His only goal is getting back to winter of 1827 and save his mate who run away from him during a full moon night when she saw his monster and she was killed by an accident.
Loved it, almost as much as the previous book, "No Rest for the Wicked".
If you enjoy sexual tension and sexual bantering in your books, this read will not disappoint!
And when the H/H FINALLY get down to it--yowza!Loved the hero, Bowen, although at first it was hard to read the Scottish accent, but I endured, and then the accent became downright sexy!
And so far Mari is my favorite heroine of the IAD series.
She was funny, brave, and good at putting the often arrogant and cock-sure Bowen in his place!
Made me reach for the next one in the series, and started reading it immediately!
"For one hundred and eighty years I've no' touched another" …"Have never even given a woman a second look.
And it was easy to do so.
But now I canna seem to keep my hands off a slip of a witch", he rasped at her ear.
"A witch who has me feeling like I'll die if I doona find out what it'd be like to kiss her."…"O' course it's a goddamned spell."  Bowen MacRieveBowen is a werewolf that lost his mate one hundred and eighty years ago as she was fleeing him.
He blames himself for her death and has l
"A witch who has me feeling like I'll die if I doona find out what it'd be like to kiss her."…"O' course it's a goddamned spell."
Bowen MacRieveBowen is a werewolf that lost his mate one hundred and eighty years ago as she was fleeing him.
Bowen has not touched nor had desire for another, until meeting Mariketa.Mariketa the AwaitedMariketa is a young witch, only twenty-three years old.
But Bowen can't seem to keep his eyes off her, even under that cloak.
Bowen is feeling guilty for desiring Mari, but he suspects that she has be-spelled him.
4 to 4 1/2 starsI thoroughly enjoyed reading Wicked Deeds on a Winter's Night, the fourth book in the Immortals After Dark series.
I was not as enamored with this story as I was with the third book, but I had fun reading it just the same.
The heroine, Mariketa (Mari), is a fantastic and fun character.
My only complaint about this book–and the series–and reason for the slight drop in rating is the annoying relationship pattern I've noticed in the books I've read thus far.
Since it's obvious Ms. Cole is a gifted and creative writer I can only hope she rectifies this relationship pattern in future books.
I am stopping half way through Book 5 to write this short 'review' because I was so eager to continue that I failed to say even a few words about this yet another AWESOME story!!This series is like a book version of Lays potato chips - you can't read just one!
'GAH!' is the only word that comes to mind.Basically, this series can be summed up by reading the following gushing 'non-reviews reviews' [aka my ramblings] of:
The Warlord Wants Forever (IAD Book 1)
A Hunger Like No Other (IAD Book 2)
No Rest For The Wicked (IAD Book 3)
3.5/5 stars “You could almost make me forget what I really want.”  Yay!! My first ever Kresley Cole book...and it was FANTASTIC! This was a completely addicting book that I flew through. I just couldn't get enough! I admit, I probably should have started at book one so I knew the gist of all the worldbuilding and different creatures; but I still understood the book relatively well. Bowen and Mari's relationship was a rollercoaster of angst, misunderstandings and some serious sexual tension...but
Now that I've gotten a taste for this series I know that I'm not going to be able to hold myself back!Mariketa and Bowen are both competing a magical competition, with the prize being the ability to go back in time twice.
But Mari doesn't want to be used in that way, so she tries to stifle her feelings for Bowen, unless he decides that she is really his mate.
Mari must find a way to unlock her powers, but if she does this, will she still have time for Bowen; a Lykae who hates witches.
I fell in love with Bowe in A Hunger Like No Other and since then I've wanted him to get his happy ending.
It picks up where the last one left off and Bowe has to go rescue Mari from the cave he trapped her in so she can lift his curse or he'll die.As all good, sexy lykae he has a very caveman attitude (yes, he does throw her over his shoulder to a cave to.have his wicked way with her, yum!) But we also get to see a side of him that's been hurting for centuries thinking he lost his mate and he could never have that again.Mari is an amazing heroine, she's kick ass!!
She's fun, she doesn't take any *** from anyone and she knows what she wants.I was pleasantly surprised with the turn of events.
I had a blast listening to this title; Kresley Cole & Robert Petkoff are a powerhouse of audiobook wizardry!Thus far, we’ve become versed in the intricate Lore surrounding this author’s Valkyries, vampires, and werewolves, so you’d be right to infer that my expectations vis-à-vis her witches were through the roof.
Other than a bit of glamour, and a couple of secondary characters, the fey elements were negligible which I’m assuming was intentional, and will be explored in a future installment.I liked how dissimilar the two protagonists were; Mari is only twenty-two years old, hasn’t been frozen into her immortality yet, and is the embodiment of a modern young woman.
I could write for the millionth time about how much I love this series but I won't.
I'll tell you why this book is one of my favourite three in the series so far...BowenI have a thing for tortured heroes.
This, combined with the fact that everyone expects greatness from her but so far she has only displayed volatile and uncontrollable powers make her want to prove that she can do better.
She worked to get what she wanted and she let no-one walk all over her.Bowen and Mariketa together where a time bomb but they were also perfect for each other.
I want a book on the fairies.
The witch seethed with power. Spells and magicks swirled about her. I read this for the Witches Halloween bingo square.I liked this one more than the previous and while it still had the OTT-ness and SEX (that Bowen powerless against the tree scene is all at once sort of uncomfortable and hot), the fun, crazy, and heat between our leads, re-energized me to continue with the series. I find myself liking the witches more than the valykrie, so this focusing on them was better for me. Under her voic
I read this for the Witches Halloween bingo square.I liked this one more than the previous and while it still had the OTT-ness and SEX (that Bowen powerless against the tree scene is all at once sort of uncomfortable and hot), the fun, crazy, and heat between our leads, re-energized me to continue with the series.
Bowen and Mari had a sweet but challenging connection that made them fun to read but again, the whole Bowen being a werewolf and NEEDING to claim his mate made the boners and sex OTT.
All the stars in the sky for this bookIt's been a year since I read the first book in the series.
One more reason I was reluctant to read this book was that I was somehow left with the impression that Bowen would be fixated on his first mate and stubbornly refuse to love the heroine until the end.
He wanted Mariketa from the beginning and it didn't take him long to realise that she suited him better than his first mate.This book was perfect and so sweet.
I don't expect that all the books in the series will be that good, it's not possible, but I'll not make the same mistake again.
I wish i could go back in time and read all her stuff over, like an immortals after dark virgin...but i cant.
loved this book, who doesn't love a brooding lykae ...yummmmmmmWicked Deeds ona Winter's Night: 5 star read!
I'd take a Lykae over a a vamp any day.2.
3. I liked how simple it was.
It's fun to go back and read the books when it was just sexual tension and lots o love!
Honestly, idk how good this book is in terms of literary merit.
At the end of the day, I think that's what makes a book a goodread...
I can promise though that I DO have a plan for book 5's cafe scene.
Bowen was just cranky and old.
But I need an author to sell me on the idea of a centuries (or millenia) old being able to keep up with modern times.
The book definitely had me feeling a like/dislike contradiction.
But even as I count Wicked Deeds as my least favorite of the series so far, I still liked it better than a lot of books I've read.
I'm truly enjoying the series and am already zipping through book 5 like a madwoman.
I love this book, and it’s definitely a five star read, but it challenged me in ways the first three books didn’t.Bowen is a character we got to know in A Hunger Like No Other, and we followed up on him in No Rest for the Wicked.
Yeah, that bad!Despite the fact that Bowen commits some serious relationship nonos with Mariketa, he also has some heart-meltingly sweet moments where you can’t imagine not being bowled over by a guy like him wooing you.
I love the fact that Mariketa doesn’t make it easy for Bowen sexually.
Bowen MacRieve—good god now there’s an alpha male!
Even before the story starts with the little blurb that each of them says about the other really wets your whistle and makes you want to read on!
What a fantastic story between angst riddled Bowen and razor sharp tongue Mari.
Some excellent banter between the h/h—very witty and suggestive dialog.
The little puzzles scattered through out the story are also so well done because they seem so simple at the end.
This story was excellent!
Next book is out in April—thank god ;-)
Looks like he is trying to win that slot again.Robert Petkoff is wonderful at infusing life and emotions into Ms. Cole’s amazing characters.
LOL!Mr. Petkoff also made Cadeon Woede, with a lovely English accent, sound yummy, too!
My heart always ached for Bowen MacRieve; having lost his mate over two centuries ago, in the previous installments of this wonderful paranormal series he pretty much didn’t care if he lived or died.
Bowen, believing she has toyed with him, enthralled him, does the unthinkable and traps Mari and a few other Hie competitors in a Guatemalan tomb with some swarming incubi!
(Lykae!) There is a super badass yet sweet and vulnerable female.
What else could a girl want in her PNR.
Forever and always a wolf girl.
😉 Loving this reread!
Happy reading!!Original Review May 2013I liked this one so much!
I adore Bowen and Mari.
This story felt so authentic to me (what does that say about me when this is a paranormal romance?).
My only question is what did Mari's tattoo mean?
Happy reading!Oh, yea!
these book covers are terrible!
The next book has a much better cover.
The next book has a ghost as the female lead.
This book definitely did not disappoint. If anything it just kept getting better and better as the story progressed. Bowen and Mari are a great couple and the chemistry between the sheets with these two...HOT! 5 - Huge stars from moi!
I did not like Bowen, especially since he was such an asshole in No Rest for the Wicked but I felt bad for him.
That’s some good news for today.So here are a few images that show my reactions throughout the book: At the beginningHalf-way thoughClose to the endBefore the epilogueThat being said, here are some quotes I loved:(view spoiler)[Whenever other Lore creatures like the nymphs and satyrs turned their noses up at the “hex-hacks,” Carrow would raise both her hands in the rock-on horns gesture and shout, “Double, double, toil and trouble, muthafuckas!
In the process, he traps Mari and some other friends in a tomb while he goes for the big prize.
Turns out that Mari and her friends are still trapped in the tomb with nasty incubi and Bowen must free her in order for her to remove the spell.
Bowe is a total package with the Scottish accent (though I had a hard time reading it at first, but it’s dead sexy) and dark possessiveness and Mari is a strong modern girl that shines in comparison to the plain and proper, Mariah.
BUT when Bowe yells out MARIAH instead of Mariketa’s name during the act, things get sour pretty quick.
I'm really glad the rest of the audiobooks in the series haven't been produced yet because I would probably be tempted to listen them all!Anyways, this story is very similar to the previous ones: man chases woman because he thinks she's his mate while the woman doesn't want anything to do with the guy, blah, blah, blah.
The first time I heard him, my feelings were very similar to Carrow's:"Oh great Hekate, is that his voice?" Carrow cried "I just had an orgasm."I'm still just 'meh' on the series but I'll definitely keep listening as long as Mr. Petkoff is the narrator.
Rtc
It's been a while since I've been this obsessed over a new PNR series, well, new for me at least.This awesome book tells the story of the powerful young witch Mari and the ever so strong and sexy Lykae Bowen -RAWR!.You know it, I loved Mari.
Women are not just ornaments, or a way to make the book a PNR romance, but they're strong, they're kickass and they're definitely essential to the story.
The whole relationship between these two, the constant bickering, the power struggles, and the drama of the ghost of Bowen's past and Mari's future was brilliantly written.
Story Rating 5 starsCharacter Rating 5 starsRomance Rating 4.5 starsImagination 5 starsHeat Level 3 starsAction Level 5 starsOverall Rating 5 starsFavorite Character, MariketaThis book started out with lots of action that grabbed me right from the start.
I really hope we get some glimpses of Mari and Bowen in the following book's.Mari was my favorite character because there was just so much imagination put into her character.
I just have to say that if you love your reads with a lot an excellent story telling filled with phenomenal imagination, great characters, Lot's of action and a steamy romance you really should read this series.
Yes, I know she is young.
But OMG she drove me crazy.I couldn’t wait to read Bowen’s book and really, his story lived up to what I wanted for him…mostly.
Mari drove me crazy.I think out of all the creatures in the world witches are my absolute favorite and as I turned page after page I just felt so much frustration.
My head was spinning and it felt so very good!So, I would say that for 85% of this book I just chalked this one up as a fail and then out of nowhere it truly became one I’ll probably remember the most.Love when that happens honestly.Mari still drove me crazy.Whose next?
