https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/483137.Left_Wing_Communism_an_Infantile_Disorder
The ruthless struggle for power knows nothing of the purity of means.Of course it's also true that Lenin only got to the point of seizing power by taking an extremely principled stance against the First World War and thus breaking with the Second International.
While it's true that socialism has been on the rise, obviously at the moment there's nothing like a revolutionary left capable of seizing power.
If we want to find an analogy to Lenin in our current conjuncture, I think we should look not to his moment of triumph but the catastrophe that preceded it.WW1 was total collapse, civilizational suicide, without any right or wrong side.
To abandon parliamentarianism or any form of party organization is a left deviation from Marxism because it wants to substitute for the present a future already imagined in the heads of the "revolutionaries." It skips over the real work that must be done under this bourgeois society and under socialist construction and goes straight to what society will be like under communism.It is this left deviation that is also responsible for the left anti communism that exists among the western left, with people like Chomsky being at the forefront of this.
Lenin doesn't give arguments for his claims but only calls opposing viewpoints childish, petit-bourgeois, and stupid. A total jackass.I guess if you're trying to lead a party to dictatorship this is a fair pamphlet against reasonable criticisms.
Where mass organization is impossible, as under Tsarist Russia, different tactics are called for, but the impracticability of some particular tactic does not become a pass for abstentionism.Lenin is helpful also in making the argument that anarchism is an expression of the class aspirations of the petty-bourgeoisie, and as such, represents a hostile class force with respect to workers.Lenin also argues against the undialectical nature of the politics expressed in slogans we hear today, such as "be the change you wish to see," which are used to argue that a movement to change the world must itself be organized along exactly those lines as the whole world would be, once changed:"To attempt in practice today to anticipate this future result of a fully developed, fully stabilised and formed, fully expanded and mature Communism would be like trying to teach higher mathematics to a four year old child."We can (and must) begin to build Socialism not with imaginary human material, not with human material invented by us, but with the human material bequeathed to us by capitalism.
As a text on its own merits it reads with some degree of consistency. But when you actually bother to compare it to the 'ultra-leftists' hes challenging it does not hold all that much water. The methods and the party form he advocates has been tried numerous times and invariably leads to the worse form of substution of the class by the party you can imagine. The arguements within Marxism were there from the start, only for people to be hoodwinked by events in Russia.I would recommend people actually look at people like Sylvia Pankhurst, Anton Pannekoek and Otto Rhule.
Some really good insights into the role of the vanguard, anti-dogmatism, the necessity of legal as well as illegal work, etc.
Lenin seems to forget that the struggle for popular democracy did not arise out of class struggle, as it did in Russia, in the big imperialist countries he addresses throughout the book.
Lenin's suggestion towards Britain - "support the Labour Party so people realise it's bad and become communists" has been proven wrong a million times by history.
I still feel like this book could be very very useful in oppressed nations, but since it is addressed mostly to Germany, Britain, Holland, the US, and France, it just doesn't work.
If you've ever wondered why the left is in such disarray, one need go any further than honestly studying Lenin.
This is a must-read for the left.This is one of those books that Lenin reveals himself as all tactic and no democratic.
By all means read everything you can about Lenin and understand how he prepped us for Stalin.
كتاب مهم جداً ، يوضح كثيراً من النقاط المتعلقة بطبيعة العمل الثوري وخطته وتكتيكاته ! والمتوقع حتى مواجهتها مع -حسني النيّة - أو - ضعاف العزيمة - أحياناً من مشاكل فكرية ومنهجية ، تتسم بالحرفية الشديدة والتحويل للنظريات إلى نصوص ذات طبيعة عقائدية تكسبها لوناً باهتاً يفقدها سمتها الأساسية أي التطور الدائم والنضوج المستمر ! كتاب مهم بالفعل ، كالعادة يسحرني أسلوب لينين =)
yeah yeah ultraleftists are dicks. I guess they're the leftwing analog of teabaggers/fascists/objectivists to the extent that they may not want to compromise with the center-left at all in the name of doctrinal perfection. whatever?
I'm more Marxist than you rants from Lenin.
Lenin would have supported the Front populaire and opposed Molotov-Ribbentrop. Fuck off, Stalin.
Most of the negative criticism of this book I've seen move along two lines:1) Lenin was a dictator, Stalin, purges, 100000000 zillion people killed by communists alone in my village, whatever.2) Lenin is a total dick that only insults his opponents, never giving arguments to support his viewpoint.First criticism is total bullshit and we shall just ignore it.
He explains the problem Communist struggle must faces in the material conditions of every country he speaks about, and he gives some suggestions regarding how the parties shall carry their activity.
على الرغم من بداية لينين في الحديث عن مناقب الحركة البلشفية إلا أن الكتاب موجه بصفة واضحة الى جماهير
Lenin at his most craven -- the perfect preface to his NEP and Stalin's purges.
كتاب مهم جدا وبيرد على نقط كتير لازم تتفهم بطريقه صحيحه .اانصح بقريته
This typical arrogance so common in Lenin is accentuated here by the clear power position of Lenin and his victory in creating the first dictatorship in the name of the proletarian (but ruled by the vanguard) in Russia.
Lenin proceeds to denounce, criticize and patronize all the other communist parties.
But his tactics boil down to: 1) Patronizing the proletarian masses (who with such words as not class conscience he makes dumb) by the vanguards (meaning him and his gang) who know better what is good for the masses.
His tactics just won him political power by the use of manipulation mass deceiving and mass murder.
‘...devrim olabilmesi için, sömürülen ve ezilen yığınların, eskiden olduğu gibi yaşamanın olanaksız olduğu bilincine varmaları ve değişiklik istemeleri yetmez; devrimin olması için, sömürücülerin eskiden olduğu gibi yaşayamaz ve yönetemez duruma düşmeleri gerekir(...) ancak bu durumdadır ki, devrim başarıya ulaşabilir.’
Very helpful, but definitely not appropriate for someone unfamiliar with Marxism–Leninsim (“Foundations of Leninism” is what you’re looking for).Anyway, Lenin used so many fucking exclamation points. I remember I was trying to read some of his “commentary” of Hegel a while ago, and honestly it’s pretty terrible but also hilarious, because mostly it’s like one-word interjections, like “bullshit!!!” So yeah, Lenin… -major- diva (secret gay icon??? you decide!).
These are the left wing communists that refuse on principle to ever interact or participate in parliament, to deal with trade unions because they aren't international enough, to enter into a momentary negotiation with the state apparatus, etc.
In short every refutation goes exactly like this:The left has decided a priori that they refuse to do X (e.g., deal with trade unions).The left praises the Bolshevik's success in Russian.The Bolshevik's did X.Therefore the left must do X.Since the left is not doing X, they are childish/stupid/wretched.Even when I agree with Lenin tactically, his presentation is invective at best.
Nesta obra, o autor reflete sobre a relutância de certos grupos "de esquerda" em atuar dentro de um parlamento reacionário, pois estes julgam que qualquer tipo de acordo ou aliança mancharia a "pureza" dos ideais comunistas.
Pregam que seus objetivos devam ser atingidos sem qualquer tipo de desvio.
Lênin demonstra o oportunismo e o erro estratégico que esse discurso representa, bem como sua extrema debilidade.
Ou seja, uma esquerda que manifesta muitos dos sintomas da "doença infantil do comunismo".
It is an interesting read. Whilst he was answering questions present in the early 20th century he in part was answering questions that confront opposition parties in authoritarian countries today. Do we participate in elections or not? His advice was simple, participate in the bourgeoisie parliaments and mobilise on the streets. It has to be a combination of both street protests and participation in parliaments. More importantly, the communist party must educate and re-educate the people.
Lenin accuses “Left” Communists of insisting on the impossibility of compromise through working with parliament and trade unions which simultaneously crying out in sympathy with "the masses”… all the while, refusing to get their hands dirty, working where “the masses” may be found in all their miseducation and adherence to reactionary principle.
Lenin challenges this essentially obstructionist view, pointing out that these “Left” revolutionaries end up perpetuating a world-view which unwittingly supports the agenda of reactionary political systems… expressing support for “the masses” while at the same time refusing to educate them through collaboration.
I enjoy Lenin's writing but I read this before I knew much about Leninism, its historical context, or Marxist ideas. I should go back to it sometime.
More leftists need to read this!
In this work, Lenin, clearly emboldened and with renewed conviction due to the successes of the Bolsheviks in securing the proletarian revolution for over 2 years against the imperialist and bourgeois fronts, sets out the principle elements which allowed for the success of that revolution.Using the experiences of the Bolsheviks adaptation and flexibly to the changing political climate of Russia since their inception, Lenin refutes the doctrinaire inflexibility of European 'Left-wing' Communists, citing frequently their denunciation of the utilisation of existing political systems and organs for the enhancement of the education of the proletariat.
UGHLenin is pretty intoxicating to read because you get a second-hand feeling of intense superiority while he's dunking on every other socialist under the sun. And there are even a lot of points I agree with re. compromises. But he's just such a self assured jack-ass and some of his "marxist analysis" borders on mysticism.
The entire book is just really Lenin being very real - the key is that a materialist cannot ignore the current state of society and its denizens when crafting their political strategy: knowing when to concede on which principles is infinitely more valuable than sticking to a 'perfect' theory only upheld by five people. Classes are dynamic and whoever, false binaries are bad, Lenin is smart.
São tantos erros de digitação, pontuação e estruturação nessa edição, que por vezes compromete o entendimento e fluência da leitura.Quanto ao conteúdo, até mesmo Lenin sabia que o esquerdismo exarcebado é um erro fatal...
Lenin is my dad and will always be my dad
الترجمة سيئة جدا
