https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/460087.Night_of_the_Ninjas
--Ninja were secretive and good at keeping under the radar.--Ninja were sometimes women.--Both ninja and samurai were from "old Japan" (no era given)Untrue things in the book:--Ninja were not some sort of nature-loving Zen Buddhist folk who said things like "use nature, be nature, follow nature." They were mercenaries hired from amongst struggling farmers and vallagers and paid well to do heinous things that the strict code of honor and loyalty prevented the samurai from doing.
But the book presented them in such a friendly, "take this pebble from my hand, grasshopper" way, I felt compelled to research to see if I had been wrong about ninja culture.
Read this with the boy I tutor and it’s definitely a good one! Very short and entertaining. We both enjoyed it.
At the beginning of the book, the two ninjas look like they want to kidnap the siblings, but actually they are trying to take them to place of their master.
I liked how Jack and Annie were trying to find Morgan through the entire book.
I predict the next three books are clues to find Morgan and that probably will happen.
In this book , the clue is a moonstone.
I really loved how the master of the ninjas was willing to help the siblings find Morgan.
Even though, I skimmed this book, I still found it interesting.
I like Ninjas so I liked this book. There is a master ninja in the book.
Night of the Ninja by Mary Pope Osborne (1995)Genre: Chapter book, historical fictionFormat: BookPlot summary:The magic tree house takes Jack and Annie back in time to feudal Japan where the siblings learn about the ways of the NinjaConsiderations or precautions for readers advisory (strong language, sex, death, religious overtones, violence, etc.): No special considerationsSection source used to find the material: In class recommendation Recommended age: Grades 3-4
NINGAS!!!!!!! WHIYYA!!!! SAMUCIY WARRIORS!!!
“It spun faster and faster then everything was still. Absolutely still.”
Jack tells Anni that don't be afraid that everything will be ok, but what Annie wants to know is where the lead , after walking a long time they cross a river where the Ninjas loaded the kids in their shoulders to Jack and Annie After walking for a long time the Ninjas take the guys with a sensei.The sensei told them that what it did was protecting them from the samurai , the samurai is a warrior who seeks the Ninjas to kill them, that is why the Ninjas led to the guys with the sensei when they arrived with the sensei asked if the could help find her friend Morgan, but the sensei told him that he knew nothing about her friend Morgan,When the Ninjas removed their masks the guys saw the Ninja girls were and were not a few men Ninjas .I liked the book The History I thought that I was one of the boys exploring the trees using my imajinacion .
Eight year old jack and his seven year Old sister Annie, climbed into the tree house.
Jack and Annie also found out that the tree house was Magic.
now jack and Annie are about to start a whole new adventure in night at ninjas .
Annie and jack claimed the ladder that lead into the tree house.
When they went in the tree house, a note appeared.
then Annie took a book and the title was night at the ninjas.
Just as they stopped, ninjas were climbing the ladder into the tree house!
Jack and Annie go to the time of the ninjas.
The ninjas climb in and Jack and Annie are freaked out.
Then they make friends with the ninjas and the ninjas bring them across a freezing cold river.
The ninjas bring them through a forest and take them to a cave to meet the ninja master.
The ninja master says, "Okay.
They go that way and then the bad warriors come and Jack and Annie pretend to be rocks.
Jack and Annie see the river and it's freezing cold so they can't run through it.
My young son informed me that the sword is called a "katana." Also, he kindly informed me that the star with blades was not a sirakin but a "shuriken." Clearly, he knows more about ninja from his video games and Ninja Legos than I do.
My son really likes the Magic Tree House series, and this was one of his favorite installments.
(It also provided us the excuse to watch cool You-Tube videos of a katana, neatly slicing the tops off of a line of 8 plastic 2-liter soda jugs.) I bow to the master.
Jack and Annie were at the treehouse.
Two ninjas were standing by a river, and they found Jack and Annie.
The ninja master was in the cave.
They told Jack and Annie to sit down.
The ninja master told them to do three things: 1.
be nature, 2.
follow nature, and 3.
They went back to the treehouse and the ninja master was in there.
He also had a moonstone that was to help find their friend Morgan, who got books from libraries for the Magic Treehouse.
(They were told to find three things and this was the first.)
Anne und Philipp finden das "Magische Baumhaus" verlassen vor. Die Zauberin Morgan ist verzaubert worden und hat nur einen Brief hinterlassen. Anne und Philipp wollen Morgan helfen und reisen dafür mit dem Baumhaus nach Japan zu den Ninjas und Samurai. Bei diesem Büchlein handelt es sich um ein Pixi-Buch, daher ist es natürlich schnell gelesen und hat nicht sonderlich viel Inhalt. Für Kinder finde ich es aber sehr gelungen, und ich denke, auch zum Vorlesen eignet sich die Geschichte gut. "Im Land der Samurai" ist Teil einer Serie, daher ist die Geschichte hier noch nicht abgeschlossen.
Jack and Annie go to the tree house and find a note from Morgan le Fay, that says she is in danger.
Morgan le Fay is the owner of the tree house.
Morgan says they need to travel to the time of ninjas as the first step to saving her.
Jack and Annie find a mouse in the tree house that Annie names Peanut, they take Peanut with them to help save Morgan.I thought it was good.
It described how ninjas dressed, acted, and fought.
They find the first thing, a moonstone, to save Morgan.
After their last adventure, Jack and Annie discovered that The M Person was Morgan le Fay. The books inside the magic tree house belong to her.
In Night of the Ninjas, Morgan le Fay disappears, leaving behind a message and a little mouse, which Annie calls Peanut.
In order to help Morgan le Fay, Jack and Annie must find four things.
They travel back in time to ancient Japan, where they learn the secrets of the ninja from a ninja master, avoid evil samurai warriors, and find the first of the four things they need to help Morgan le Fay...
Follow the 3 rules of ninja!1.
Use nature2.
Be nature3.
Follow natureOh yes, I am ninja.
Because Jack and Annie taught me how to be one!!!
Haha!!
Another adventure, even more fun!
This time, Morgan has left a message.
She is under a spell and needs Jack & Annie to help her by finding 4 things!!
I loved this one.
Not just because it had ninjas, but because it had ninjas AND samurais.
[Toss in Godzilla and you've got destruction all over little Tokyo lol] But anyway, great book, so much fun, LOTS OF EXCITEMENT FOR THE NEXT INSTALLMENT =D
This was a good book. I recommend this book to elementary kids and for all genders. This book isn't a chick-flick and is an easy read. There were two kids in this book, their names were Jack and Annie. Their tree house was a magic tree house. The tree house took them back to the ancient Japan. They had to find something that started with a “M”. The thing they found that started with a “M” was moonstones. I really like these book. Reading this books bring back memories when I use to read these books in elementary.
Another book in the Magic Tree House series that I'm reading with my daughter. I think this one was probably her favorite. She liked the Ninja's and I think she's getting more familiar with the two main characters in all the books. It's fun reading her stories... I do the different voices for the different characters. My daughter likes that.
It has been weeks since the Magic Treehouse and their new friend disappeared. Then the treehouse reappears with a plea for help from their friend and a mouse. Jack and Annie go to ancient Japan where a ninja gives the a moonstone that will aid their search for the missing Morgan le Fay. This book is at the 1.9 reading level.
I loved the book. The author wrote many good adjetives. When I am reading I can picture it in my mind. My favorite part was when the master-ninja gave jack and annie a tiny golden stone that will help them to find Morgan, the magical librarian.
The is about these tow kids going into a tree house and finds Morgan missing the lady who owns this tree house.I like the because it's scary and interesting. I recommend this book to the whole 2 grade class.
I like the book. It was about ninjas and they had too saved lots of ninjas. And they almost died and the ninjas save them at the end of the book. I recommend this book to Jairo because it's about ninjas and he likes ninjas.
the best book ever
Jack and Annie went to ancient Japan.
My 6 year old son, Daniel, says, "This story is great! I really liked the ninjas and Peanut, the mouse! I wish I could give it 10 stars!".
Love how much my kids have loved this series. Anything that makes children want to read is 5 stars in my book. :)
Annie thinks Morgan is in trouble with the ninjas and wants to help rescue her.
Before Jack can grab the book from her, Annie points to the picture and wishes that the tree house would take them to meet the ninjas.
When they get into the tree house there is a note saying that Morgan is under a spell and needs help.
Annie thinks that Morgan is is in trouble with Ninjas.
Annie wishes to be took to the ninjas and the wind blew and the tree house spun, but before you knew it they were in Japan.
I suppose it's a good thing I started with the books I did or I would never have given this series this much of a chance.My biggest issues here are that Morgan's note is written in cursive and then never repeated in print.
And later this "master" tells them that they couldn't find the book because they had a mission to complete.
Pretending to be ninjas is a mission now?Ugh. This one was just silly.
And the illustrations, while still beautiful, just served to remind me I was reading about ninjas, and therefore enhanced the silliness.
The summery of past books within the new story would be really helpful for a person who hasn't read the series in a long time.
I can relate to them, even as an adult, because I love books and would love to be in their shoes, to see all the worlds in the books, and who wouldn't want a magic tree house?---Child/teen me: 4Adult me: 3*For the first book in a "child/teen/middlegrade/nostalgic" book, I am going with the rating younger me would have gone with, then if I read on in the series, I will rate the books what adult me believes it should be rated.
Please note, I do not really think books should have an age limit.
The Magic Tree House takes Jack and Annie back hundreds of years to Old Japan where they encounter ninjas, a ninja master, and samurai. As with all Magic Tree House books, Night of the Ninjas uses short sentences and easy words, allowing early elementary kids to have success reading a chapter book. As an added bonus, they teach a little bit of history. I recommend this book (and all Magic Tree House books) to kids who have recently learned to read.
