https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59950.The_Sound_of_the_Mountain
While leafing through the pages, for the pace it maintained, I felt as if the book was following my thoughts, as if I’m part of this magnificent world created around this majestic arrangement of words, instead of I’m going after its patterns, for the thoughts seemed to be emanating from the text.The narrator, Ogata Shingo, a 62-year old man seemed to keep losing track of life, it looks something has saddened him, probably the fact that he couldn’t remember the name of maid, however, it’s normal to forget things when you’re losing time with every passing year but, perhaps it’s not that normal for Shingo, his old memories seemed to surfaced from the deepest layers of memories on hearing sound from The Mountain , well it’s perfectly normal to feel awkward when remembrances of the bygone times haunt you but the reverberation of reminiscences of past from the mountain probably symbolizes something else, something very profound, probably an omen of his impending death.
A painfully beautiful book. Like the other works by Kawabata I've read, it is not so strictly concerned with plot and action. Instead this is a novel which works slowly and quietly, with description of gesture and emotions, or subtle changes in the weather or in conversation.It centers around an older man, Shingo, who is distant to his wife and sons. There is a tremendous magnitude of emotion told here, but with the bare minimum of words, even just fragments of sentences. We see the weather pass as a bellwether of mood, and Shingo's quiet acceptance.A subdued yet compelling book.
It kinda scared the crap out of me in the oppressive lonely way I get when I think too much about what other people want from other people.
(Why do I have to be an idiot during important times like these?) It's one of the best books I have ever read.
Shingo's dream had read a masterpiece about pure love between a boy and a girl.
"Had a flicker of youth given him a dream of pure love in old age?" That's also what is so huge about The Sound of the Mountain.
Unlike the gingko tree up in the mountain that puts out new leaves in place of its weathered typhoon marred branches, Shingo was afraid of the changes that his life years were bringing in.
Dark terror swept over him.”Although Shingo’s loyalty was towards his children, he also felt an immense sense of guilt towards Kikuko (Shuichi’s wife), a woman who understood Shingo and his sentimentalities.“In all his life no woman had so loved as to want him to notice everything she did”.
Stopped in his path to gaze:The crown of a sunflower's head,A wish for Renewal.*Through Kawabata's beautifully written Haiku-style prose: the marital struggles of Shingo's daughter Fusako; the loneliness and melancholy of Kikuko's disappointing marriage to Shuichi, whose aloofness and unfaithfulness are shaped from the male-egoist facility of Japanese society of the time: are closely observed.
Autumn has begun;The buds from the gingko tree Cannot be mature.*Kawabata's novel is a poetic tapestry of human relations, of the beauty and sadness inherent in nature, of life and death, of memories and lost loves fading in and out.
Shingo heard a sound of mountain and its voice awaked in him old memories .Its sound symbolizes impending death.Shingo takes us then on a nostalgic journey to the past,to the world of memories and unfulfilled dreams .Painfully aware of loss so many things takes a trip down memory lane, meditates about passage of the time ,observing nature and the changing seasons , world of plants, bonzai and flowering cherry trees , clones .Kawabata in detail depictures the world of dreams and daily rituals of old man , drinking tea, daily toilets , images observed during the train ride to his office.
Thus I was not at all surprised to read that Kawabata committed suicide in 1972.There are distinct pros and cons to this work and regrettably the latter prevail.The positive points demonstrate the unique writing style of Kawabata and the way he demonstrates his love of nature.The negative point is that the rhythm is incredibly slow and pedestrian.
I see that many people love this book and evidently Kawabata was a great Japanese writer getting the 1968 Novel Prize for Literature, which is no mean feat.
As patriarch of the family, Shingo takes personal responsibility for the success of his children’s marriages.Relationships”Even when natural weather is good, human weather is bad.”Each character has depth and the relationships are even more complex.Shingo the patriarch.
For her part, Kikuko did not indulge in dark conjectures on the psychology of the aged, nor did she seem afraid of him.Shingo and Fusako.
It was obvious that Shingo favoured Kikuko over his own less attractive daughter, who was a reminder of Yasuko and hence of her younger sister whom he could never be with.
Still he sheltered Fusako and her two daughters in the wake of her own failed marriage.Kikuko and Shuichi.
Time takes with it not only his vigor, faulty memory, but his way of life and bringing with it the confusion of new standards and its complications.
His marriage of many years ago too was arranged(?) but existed in aridity since he was in love with his wife’s beautiful sister who died young.
This love continued throughout the years and still maintains its place among his mental images, appearing and fading at times.What will he be leaving?
The plea desperate.I hate it and love it this writing about a book and by so doing learning about it as I go along, wiping out my ideas, plans, for what I thought I would write.
The Sound of the Mountain, Yasunari Kawabata (1899 - 1977)The sound of the mountain, Snow country, Thousand cranesتاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم ماه آگوست سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: آوای کوهستانی؛ نویسنده: یاسوناری کاواباتا؛ برگردان: رضا دادویی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، آمه: سبزان، 1390، در 336 ص، شابک: 9786006242019؛ کتاب از متن انگلیسی با عنوان نگاشته شده در نخستین سطر به پارسی برگردانده شده، موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان ژاپنی قرن 20 مدر داستان آوای کوهستان: پدری نگران مشکلات پس از ازدواج فرزندان خویش ا
The Sound of the Mountain, Yasunari Kawabata (1899 - 1977)The sound of the mountain, Snow country, Thousand cranes‬تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم ماه آگوست سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: آوای کوهستانی؛ نویسنده: یاسوناری کاواباتا؛ برگردان: رضا دادویی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، آمه: سبزان، 1390، در 336 ص، شابک: 9786006242019؛ کتاب از متن انگلیسی با عنوان نگاشته شده در نخستین سطر به پارسی برگردانده شده، موضوع: داستانهای کوتاه از نویسندگان ژاپنی قرن 20 مدر داستان آوای کوهستان: پدری نگران مشکلات پس از ازدواج فرزندان خویش است؛ این داستان با دو داستان دیگر از همین نویسنده با عنوان: «آوای کوهستان و سرزمین برف و هزار درنا» با ترجمه: «داریوش قهرمانپور» نیز در تهران، توسط نشر رضا در سال 1363 در 576 ص.
Often little is outwardly happening but the world of change swirls around the reader who is caught up in the web Kawabata has so carefully created.
The reader cannot escape, cannot reach out to reach the world that's spinning by because the strands of words bind her arms making any struggle futile.
Throughout it all, Shingo struggles to comprehend, to remember, to do the right thing in a world that he does not quite understand as the values he knows seem to be slipping away making it almost impossible to act correctly.
I was going to write a review about how the book deals with old age and coming to terms with our life, about how Kawabata writes luminous prose with each chapter a beautiful image fading into the next.
And this is something that I’ve been struggling with: whether it’s even possible to communicate across beliefs, time and cultures.
He was Catholic, devoutly so, and Brideshead Revisited was his encomium, paean even, to the loving embrace of the Bride of God. A Catholic friend, reading the same book, talked of how it aptly captured the strong Catholic belief in the need for self-sacrifice and self-denial.
Mas não para por ai; é casado com yasuko , vive praticamente como irmãos (na juventude fora pela irmã de Yasuko que se encantara) tem um filho, Shuichi , que trai sua nora kikuko, a qual ele gosta muito com apenas dois meses de casado.
Tem uma filha Fusako que acaba de se separar do marido que tenta suicidar se , vem para sua casa com dois filhos.
Como podem perceber ele tem uma família tumultuada e ainda tem mais dramas que não vou contar para aguçar vossa curiosidade de ler o livro.
سردٌ يجنح صوب الجمال. كل هذا الانتباه لتفتح زهرة؟ لغصن جديد؟ لحديقة؟الرواية مكتوبة برقة وبحسّية محببة. سأبقي مدينة لكاواباتا بتوجيه بوصلتنا إلى العاطفة الإنسانية. سأقرأه أكثر.
In a single night after the storm the sky had turned a deep black.”As always with Kawabata atmosphere and symbolism play key roles in bringing about the mood and theme of the story and it is Kawabata’s unique style and descriptive powers which perhaps ‘The Sound of the Mountain’ in becoming an exercise in self-obsessions, Kawabata’s ability to craft delicately structured sentences and imagery is his key strength as an author even when other aspects of his stories are lacking.
In other words, a very ordinary man who one might argue has been made sentimental with age.Kawabata however tells a beautiful story through this ordinary character, and through his family.
Shingo mostly compares what he finds beautiful and pure with that he finds 'homely'.
And thus he tends to ignore the people he finds homely for those he finds beautiful and this affects the relationships he has with his family members.Kawabata narrates of love, beauty, poetry, marriage, old age, loss and redemption and healing in a well paced beautiful tale.
الحرب وموضوعها كل ماهو انساني:الجمال, الحب,الشيخوخة الوحدة والموت يعتبر كاواباتا الأول من ثلاثة أدباء يابانيين ممن أحرزوا على جائزة نوبل للادب وذلك.."لاحترافيته في السرد التي عبرت بحساسية مفرطة عن العقل الياباني".يتطرق الكاتب الى أدق تفاصيل الأشياء ويبدع في نقل صورة الفرد المغترب في محيطه الضيق وفي مجتمعه ككل,اضافة الى ما يجول في خاطره من أفكار وما ينتابه من مشاعر...شينغو "الشخصية البطلة " تجسد بامتياز ذلك التحول الفني في الروايةالحديثة من رواية تعتمد على شخصية "خارقة " الى رواية تصور الانسان المهزوموتعنى بنقل هواجسه...فنجد شينغو أسير عدة ظروف خارجية مثل تقدمه في العمر وعجزهعن مواكبة التغيرات التي تطرأ عن المحيطين به وفي المقابل نراه ينخرط أكثر فيعزلته من خلال عجزه عن التواصل حتى مع أقرب الناس اليه...الرواية عموما رائعة ولكنني أرى أن الترجمة أساءت اليها خاصة وأنها منقولةعن ترجمة فرنسية وليست عن النص الأصلي...
Ono na šta me je ovaj roman podsetio najviše je Ozeov film Tokyo Story, sa tom ključnom razlikom da gde se Oze oslanja na retku, ali prisutnu ljudskost u svojim likovima, Kavabata je daleko ambivalentniji.
Možda su se i, direktno ili indirektno, Oze i Kavabata medjusobno inspirisali, pošto su njihova dela tu negde u slično vreme i ugledala svetlost dana.
Reći da je ovo neuspešan roman je sve sem tačno.
A meni je možda ta veselost (ili makar humanost – Kavabata je i po tom pitanju dosta štur) u ovom trenutku i najviše bila potrebna.
I figured that once he picked it up, it would need no more selling, Woolf is such an innovative novelist that I could see no way anyone could not fall in love with its lyrical stream of consciousness style.
He told me he was bored the whole way through, called the book plotless, and decided that we have very different tastes.
In the same way, I'm shocked that The Sound of the Mountain gets called boring.
Reading The Sound of the Mountain is nothing less than aggravating.
During the whole book you can feel a mood of quiet desperation, a dark, imminent omen that Shingo felt when, out on his veranda, he thougt he could hear the "sound of the mountain".
Everything seems so confusing and vague in this novel.On the other hand, Shingo is also the narrator, and he is seems so emotionally detached from everything that happens, that you never quite grasp whether he is just having an existential crisis, or he is a bit of an ass.
Even when I felt like the narration seemed straight-forward, I still wondered: am I missing something here that is specific to the Japanese culture?
IShingo hears the mountain roar.IIShingo asks a woman out to dance.IIIShingo’s son is clawed in a st

Ето това е то! И животът, и красотата, и младостта, и остаряването и всеки миг от раждането до смъртта, са прости. Защото красотата е семпла, тя е в изчистените форми, в изчистеното слово - в онова лишено от претенции ежедневие, което напомня на поетично тристишие. И което събира в себе си всичко, за което си струва да се пише, да се поговори и да се помълчи.
La magia de Kawabata es incomparable. Caminar en un bosque y el río suena, fuerte e inquebrantable.
I think that the people who make "Mad Men" should go to Japan and make "The Sound of the Mountain" TV series. Everyone would love it. Water coolers across America whould be chocker. It would be similar to "Tokyo Story", but less preachy about old people and with much bigger dramas (gangster son-in-law! What a dream!).
There are no exceptionally long sentences, no explorations that push the shape of language; just perfect, simple prose that reads quickly and beautifully and feels like a poem in its economy of form.
And they serve that ever-important purpose of exploring and filling out those central themes of the novel - aging, the continuing loss of control over the world, and the pounding sound of death.
I would not hesitate to say that this book takes the form of the novel, the swirling shape of it around a cluster of ideas and characters and plot, and puts it into it’s perfect, full realization.
This book is like a tea ceremony where simple acts simply and attentively done have both meaning in and of themselves and also suggest a greater meaning.
Or imagine taking a haiku and magically transforming it into a novel that still elicits in the reader the haiku's final "ahh." Shingo, sixty-years-old lives with his wife, his son and daughter-in-law.
Told from Shingo's perspective, this is the story of Shingo's thoughts and mixed-feelings for the various members of his family and most of all, of his loving attraction to his daughter-in-law who suffers from the infidelity of his son.
There are some books you just sit and read with a sense of wonderment. It is, perhaps..., Kawabata's masterpiece.
Me tomó algún tiempo, pero puedo reconocer que uno de los puntos más fuertes que tiene el libro es la fluidez.
Hasta sintió un rugido.La narración desde la perspectiva de Shingo es ser un visitante en los cuestionamientos que tiene una persona, cuya vida ha empezado a descender.
¿A qué edad había empezado a sentirse solo cuando despertaba en invierno antes de que saliera el sol?También vale mencionar que Shingo no era el único sabio en el libro, sino, en algunas partes, su esposa, Yasuko, denotaba gran sabiduría: Que prolongar una espantosa dolencia solo llevaría a un sufrimiento absurdo, pues cuando una persona sabe que va a morir, por lo menos debería poder decidir que hacer con el tiempo que le queda.El problema que tuve que enfrentar con el libro fue el trato de la familia hacia Kikuko, más que una nuera, una empleada.
Sin embargo, la sensación que dejará en el lector esta obra bella, introspectiva y uniforme, será muy satisfactoria.El estilo modernista que nos ocupa me recuerda al de la gran escritora inglesa Virginia Woolf, pues pone énfasis en los acontecimientos cotidianos, así como en aquellos pensamientos que minuto a minuto, visitan nuestra mente.
Como podemos ver, esta es una de esas sagas familiares en las que conviene llevar un registro del nombre los personajes (no porque sean demasiados, sino porque sus nombres son muy parecidos).
