https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119881.Jalna
I read and enjoyed the entire Whiteoaks of Jalna series as a teenager, beginning with The Building of Jalna and finishing with Centenary at Jalna.
When my mother passed away in 1996, I discovered that somewhere along the way she had acquired the full set in paperback.
Since I had always intended to read them again some day, I took them home and added them to my own library.This summer, I decided to re-enter the world of Jalna, but this time I'm reading the books in the order they were written, rather than chronologically.

I read the whole series as a teenager. Even though I haven't read them in years I still give 5 stars. Just for the memory. I was leaving with the Whiteoak when I read them for sure.
Those Whiteoaks!
A lot happens in this book.
It is actually the first book that the author wrote in the series; she went back later and filled in the history of the family in what are now the first 6 books of the series if read chronologically instead of in published order.
In this book there are as usual 3 generations of Whiteoaks living at Jalna.
So interesting to see how my feelings towards a lot of the characters have changed since I read these books at 14-15 years of age.
Masterpiece!
A completely new view on Canadians!
This really does read more like a Southern (mildly) gothic tale with multiple generations and hangers-on living in one grand house.
After only having read The Building of Jalna, it was interesting and satisfying to see Adeline as an irascible, whiskery old lady of 99, although still the center of attention.
Where is the energy and optimism that built Jalna originally?
Alayne, the new bride from the states can see it, but is helpless to even get a couple of coffee instead of the interminable tea.
Funny and interesting to re-read something from your childhood. I remember going to the library in Helsinki and the the first book suggested by the librarian in the adult-book-department was the Jalna series by Mazo de la Roche. Little did I know that I would be living, for a while, not too far from the original Jalna.Interesting how life surprises you. I do understand why I loved the series madly when I was a younger…and I enjoyed the re-read experience for nostalgic reasons.
Jalna is totally absorbing. Like all the Jalna novels, it is well written and its characters well drawn. De La Roche makes the landscape here is especially lyrical, the multifaceted plot especially interesting, and the many characters of the Whiteoak family distinctive and, not always attractive, but generally sympathetic and, well, real. The rascally matriarch celebrates her 100th birthday, and while no completely "happy endings" are in sight, Jalna and the Whiteoaks endure.
I first read a Jalna book when I was a teen.
My Mom had loved the series when it was but 25 years old, and 20+ years later thought I would also.
I was absorbed in the characters, albeit a bit surprised that my Mom had read this particular book as a teen - what with the relationships described.
I'm not well versed in that area of Canada, nor in that time period in Canada - so it's refreshing to be learning something new.I do have to say, that I was also surprised at the description on the last page of the Jalna books as romance appropriate for young ladies...
The youngest has a heart problem, the teenage brother is a poor student and hypersensitive, another brother marries a girl whom the entire family disapproves of and calls a bastard, and the last brother refuses to enter a respectable profession because he wants to be a poet of all things.
Worst of all, the poet takes an American wife to whom Renny feels increasingly attracted as they live together under the same roof… and she to him.For more about this best-selling Canadian classic back in print be invited to read the long review on my book blog Edith’s Miscellany at https://edith-lagraziana.blogspot.com....
Vintage series. This was my introduction to it. This is supposedly #7, but it was the first she wrote. Not exciting enough for me to want to read more.
As early as chapter two we learn the family history which is dominated by Adeline Whiteoak, now a 99-year-old grandmother.
In 1924 American Alayne Archer impulsively marries poet Eden Whiteoak only to realize---too late---that he isn't the right man for her.
Things pick up after she meets her new brother-in-law, Renny Whiteoak, who, er, AWAKENS her.
And "Jalna" is her family home, named after the Indian military station where she first met her husband back in 1848.
The old lady still dominates her family and loves them all even when they're misbehaving, which is most of the time.
Book #7 in the Jalna series.
This was the first Jalna book Mazo de la Roche wrote, although it is the seventh in terms of storyline chronology.
I am enjoying a summer reread of this series.
Readers are introduced to Alayne, who marries Eden Whiteoak, a budding poet, after a short courtship.
When she moves to Jalna, she is attracted to Eden's oldest brother, Renny, who is the opposite of Eden in just about every way.
Eden also finds a surprising romantic interest.
Since this is the book that began the series, I'm surprised to find that I didn't enjoy it all that much. Okay, I can understand that the author got better as time went by, but the point is, THIS book was what made people interested in reading more and I just don't really see why. It was only OKAY. I had originally intended to read all the books in order of their events (she wrote them out of chronological order), but probably won't finish now.
It is a very beautiful book! Not the kind that become an obsession, but it is a book that touches your soul. The writer is very good, her style is so fresh and real that makes you feel like you are in the book too! And you have the opportunity to get inside the mind of all the Jalna's family members, to become each of them, to understand and feel like they do. For some pages you are an old women of 99 years and next you become a 9 years little boy. I recommend this book.
This fiction series follows the Whiteoaks family through about 100 years of their history living at Jalna, a property located near Lake Ontario, just west of Toronto. I read all 16 of the books one summer, when I was about seventeen years old. And I enjoyed every one. Each character is well developed, and the Ontario location is depicted faithfully. I still plan to track down the estate that inspired the books one day.
Its been a long time since I read the Whiteoak saga and I am enjoying a revisit to the series. It's interesting how some of your view points change and some don't as you get older. In my teens I was very interested in the Piers/Pheasant romance but now I find Piers irritating. I also have a lot more sympathy and interest in Finch. I used to feel sorry for Alayne but now I feel irritated with her and sorry for Renny! But I still enjoy a good book version of a soap.
J'avais dévoré tout Jalna quand j'étais adolescent, et si je suis incapable aujourd'hui de me souvenir de chacun des tomes qui composent cette saga gigantesque, je me souviens tout de même que j'avais pris beaucoup de plaisir à découvrir cette famille et ce domaine familial que l'on suit pendant presque un siècle.
I read this book in Jr Hi and escaped into another time and place. I have read it more times than I can count and eventually bought the entire set at garage sales, booksales and the internet. I want to be part of the Whiteoak family! I especially enjoyed it because my father was from Ontario Canada.
This novel was the first to be published and its popularity started the Jalna series. After reading it I can understand why. So far, it is the strongest book so far. It is has the most serious plot and the most carefully drawn characters and an open ending that obviously invites more books. I'm ready to read the next one....
Lots of excitement in the Whiteoak family in this one. This was actually the first one written and I can see how she's developed the characters in her later writing. A little soap operaish but an enjoyable read. This is the first one I wouldn't recommend for kids, some more mature themes going on.
Read the whole series early in my teens and seeing them on here has tempted me to read them again
I love this series. I just got the next book and can't wait to read it.
Good wholesome family story - read it more than once - compare to a good macaroni cheese casserole.Original publication date was way, way back. 1920s or '30s.
Quite enjoyable, wish I'd known this one wasn't the first in the series, will have to see if I can get the rest.
A pleasant, slow but poignant novel of India/England/Canada. Perfect for summer reading. I'm starting some of her others (not a sequential series).
http://pussreboots.pair.com/blog/2014...
This is a very well written book in the Jalna series, one of my favorites.
A family saga set in Southern Ontario. Won Best Novel in 1927, th author went on to write 15 more following the Whiteoak family.
I really enjoyed this book and look forward to reading others in the series!
