https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89546.Henry_and_the_Paper_Route
I don't think Professor would really like it.(Our cat, "The Ghost of Professor Albus Dumbledore" AKA "Professor" can sometimes be considered a rather scratchy cat.)Dad: Eleanor, tell us something you remember.Eleanor: I remember every part, but my favorite part was when Ramona was being really naughty, and taking the papers and making a fuss on the paper drive.Dad: You're not talking about the time Henry's new friend had his paper route?
What do they mean by that problem?Gwen: People are saying that cats are naughty.Dad: What do you think they're saying, El?Eleanor: I think they mean kittens start out really, really cute and fluffy.
Henry really wants a paper route of his own, but at first he's a year too young, and then a new kid moves to the neighborhood and quickly becomes competition...Charlie is just loving the Henry books so far, and it's fun to read them with him (although Henry's attitude toward girls is a bit neanderthal-like).
These are the tales of Henry Huggins, paper boy at the age of 10. Sisters Beezus and Ramona show up quite a bit here too.This book came out in 1957, when I was 8 years old. Within a few years, I can remember reading many stories such as these by beloved author and Oregon native Beverly Cleary. However, I did not get my paper route until I had reached the advanced age of 15!"The Paper Drive" is quite a funny tale of Henry's adventure of collecting old newspapers and magazines for a school paper drive.
Once again, another clever Cleary tale, told from the perspective of Henry Huggins, neighbor of the famed Ramona Quimby. We listened to this on audio and it passed many a mile. At times we even laughed out loud. (Hard to believe that paper routes are on the verge of extinction now -- I remember the boys on their bicycles and the canvas bags holding the folded newspapers, and how they'd come to the door to collect the money for subscriptions).
My favorite part was when Henry found a way to stop Ramona from bothering him on his paper route. My least favorite part was when Ramona kept taking the papers and throwing them randomly at houses.
When the school has a drive for old newspapers and magazines, Henry advertises around the neighborhood and ends up succeeding beyond his own abilities.
Henry Huggins and his mother and father tie together old newspapers and magazines, filthy and getting rained on, for three days and then haul them in carloads to the school.
Reading the books as an adult, I’m exasperated with him and also know I would be there bundling magazines in my rubber boots, because it’s just what my own mother did and still does.The last chapter, titled, “Ramona Takes Over,” makes the visit to Klickitat Street feel complete.
What is a very important thing to do?That is Henry Huggin's main question in this book.
After seeing Scooter, an older school chum, selling newspapers, Henry sets out to get a newspaper route, which, (he decides) is a very important thing to do.
First, the age limit, then Scooter gets in the way, and so on.I really enjoyed the writing of this book.
If there was something I didn't like, to be honest, I didn't enjoy Ramona's character, and her cameos were irritating.
Besides all that, I really liked reading this.
As soon as I read the final sentence and closed the book, Isabelle shouted, "Five stars!" In this book, Henry shows compassion, initiative, drive, and determination.
His school has a paper drive, and - inspired by an off-hand suggestion from a friend - he comes up with an idea to collect the most paper.
Henry quickly becomes overwhelmed with the success of his idea, but he follows through and keeps his word.
I LOVE that Henry typed up his advertisements on a typewriter and used carbon paper!
Good old Henry Huggins wants a paper route but isn't quite old enough.
Instead he ends up with a new kitten, names her Nosy, and thereby upsets good old Ribsy.After another adventure with paper, known as a paper drive, in which Henry's clever advertising method succeeds way beyond his wildest dreams, bad girl Ramona's bad ideas help Henry finally get his route.I will never forget the summer my sons had a paper route.
I worked long hours that summer, including weekends.
So the boys often spent weekends in the country with their cousins.
Wish I'd known about Henry back then.
This was another interesting book in the Henry canon.
I always liked how determined Henry was to reach his goals, no matter the obstacles.
Like most of the Cleary books written in the 1950's, it's interesting to see some dated references such as the terminology (like "mechanical man" for robot).
My second grade teacher might have read this one to us, because I recall her reading the opening lines about Henry dissecting a golfball and explaining to us the interior of one.
Henry tries and really wishes to have a paper route like one of his meanest friends Scooter, but for short Henry calls him Scoot. Henry has to borrow Scooter's route twice because one time Scooter has the chicken pox and the second time he wants to go to the Y, which means he wants to take a swim somewhere. I liked this story because Ribsy his dog always tries to follow Henry on his bike, but just by his side though. [review by a 7 year old, typed by his mom]
A charming look back at a simpler time when kids were free to be curious young people. A fun look at a determined little boy who won't give up on his dream and the quirks of life in a suburban neighborhood.
As a kid, these were some of my absolute favorite books! I personally preferred Henry to Ramona and Beezus, but I love that they're neighbors and are featured in each others' stories. I am definitely going to get my kids to read all of Beverly Cleary's books.
Henry grows responsible and takes on a paper route...and something in him dies just a tad bit.
This one is just so cute. Love this one.
Wally: it was really good. (Why?) it just was really good. I liked that Ramona said "clank clank." The book was about getting a paper route.
3.5
Things always seem to work out for Henry by the end of the books, which is something my kids and I appreciate.
The personality of his little neighbor, Ramona, always steals the scene and makes it perfectly apparent why Cleary chose to devote so many books to the spunky little girl who causes so much commotion.
All of my children (ages 4, 6, and 9) enjoy when I read aloud from any of Cleary's works.
Cleary's wprks are the quintessential children's books, perfectly exemplifying what it means to be a kid.
Newbery Medal-winning author Beverly Cleary gives readers a hero they'll relate to—and root for—in this comical and inspiring novel about Henry Huggins's mission to prove himself worthy of his very own paper route.All the older kids work their own paper route, but because Henry is not eleven yet, Mr. Capper won't let him.
Desperate to change his mind, Henry tries everything he can think of to show he's mature and responsible enough for the job.
From offering free kittens to new subscribers, to hauling hundreds of pounds of old newspapers for his school's paper drive, there's nothing Henry won't try.
But it might just be the irrepressible Ramona Quimby who shows Mr. Capper just how capable Henry is.
It's fun to see Henry grow up some. He is now 11 and can have a paper route. I appreciate the focus on hard work and responsibility. Henry is a good role model and "friend" for my kids to have. This story had a fuzzy-feeling-inducing ending, as Henry becomes friends with the new kid and a confusing situation is resolved. I like those types of revelations and enjoy discussing them with the kids. Kai can't wait to move on to the next book. He got angry that we couldn't start it tonight after finishing this one.
Actual Rating: 3.5 StarsThis installment of the Henry Huggins series is my least favorite so far, although it was still entertaining. Overall the plot just felt flatter. There weren’t quite so many funny and endearing moments as the previous installments. Although it wasn’t as strong as the other books, it was a quick read (or in my case listen) and I enjoyed spending time with Cleary’s iconic characters (especially Ramona) all the same.
Another great one from Cleary. Henry desperately wants a paper route but has to wait until her turns 11. He works hard to prove he is responsible and along the way matches wits with Ramona and makes a new neighborhood friend. Liked that all the kids were in awe of the new boy who is absorbed in building his robot and Henry’s recognition of different interests and abilities.
Even after 61 years, Henry and the Paper Route still holds up and Neil Patrick Harris does a great job of narrating (except Ramona, who sounds like a growly old man). My absolute favorite part was the interview with Beverly Cleary at the end. She was a pioneer for children's literature simply because she wrote books to entertain kids, with characters and experiences they could relate to.
Fun to read a children's book, especially about a little boy growing up in the 50's like I did. In fifth grade I longed to have a paper route like the big seventh grader who delivered in our neighborhood. And the paper drive, a friend showed me his basement filled with newspapers as they were saving for a pool.
As usual, Ramona almost steals the show. But Henry is quite a boy, too... I love that he won't let the kittens go to the pound, and that he tries hard to make friends with new boy Murph, and gives both Murph and Scooter a second chance. And these Cleary books are truly timeless: yesterday at Costco I saw a box set!
I admired Henry's determination (and his saving of the kittens!) but the interactions with Murph seemed very...off for some reason. Also, his 10/11-year-old-ness is portrayed very well by Cleary. A fun little quick read. I liked these books as a child but now they are just kind of...meh.
Henry Huggins is a favorite in our house but this one lacks a bit of the luster of the first one. Despite my opinion on it both my boys (4 and 6) got plenty of enjoyment out of reading this one out loud and we look forward to the checking out another one!
Remember when boys had paper routes? Once upon a time when children rode bikes and pulled wagons, when people still subscribed to newspapers? This story holds up despite a tinge of quaintness. I still love the illustrations, and of course, Ramona is a scene-stealer, as always.
Cute story of a young boy, Henry, who wants a paper route so very badly. He has to overcome a few obstacles before his dream can come true but eventually it does. The story is very relatable to young people around his age, 10-13. The story was fun and my grandkids enjoyed it.
C enjoyed this one...we'll probably read some more of Henry's adventures. My mother bought this book for him because I absolutely loved Cleary's Ramona books when I was his age :)
