https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47587.Dark_Lord_of_Derkholm
She set out to mock gothic literature, which she did beautifully, but what impresses me so much about that story is that she managed to craft a near-perfect gothic novel as the vehicle for her parody.
Here, we have a beautifully crafted fantasy world that basks in its own cliches.
But there’s something plaguing this world: Mr. Chesney, a business mogul from a magic-free planet that must be ours, has basically enslaved this lovely world to his Pilgrim Tours, a way for people from our world to experience a fantasy adventure.
While the residents of this fantasy world are supposedly reimbursed from their troubles, everyone is miserable and just wants out of the contract binding them to Mr. Chesney.
The other great skill displayed is that of world building without info dumps, the information is provided in short bursts as it naturally comes up in each chapter, sometimes only obliquely referenced and other times actually experienced by a character, in direct contrast to one of the major issues I have with most other books in the fantasy genre, "epic" books that take six pages to discuss the history of a valley that you'll never come across again in an entire sixteen novel sequence type of thing.I won't be reading more of this stuff I'm sure but I had a great time discovering Diana Wynne Jones all the same.
It reminded me of Pratchett's DiscWorld a bit (in its humor only).So color me shocked when I ran into a vaguely worded but pretty obvious gang sexual assault.
I was shocked to find something so...dark in a humorous book.The gang (rape?)/sexual assault just...threw me out of the book and I put it down.
(view spoiler)[So, the MC and his sister are ushering a huge group of criminals to a fight via a magical moving "prison." The criminals find a way out of their moving "prison" and attack everyone.
The sister is crouched down on the ground with bruises and ripped clothes and as soon as they walk up to her she starts screaming "Don't touch me!
Then imagine that an enterprising person from an "otherworld" much like ours stumbled through a portal and discovered this real "fantasy" world.
Forty years later you might have a problem much like that in this book where Mr. Chesney's Pilgrim Parties come on tour wanting to enjoy a classic fantasy adventure.
The only problem is that Mr. Chesney's contract is so airtight that it devastates the fantasy world and everyone is at their wits' end trying to fulfill their obligations.
So when the Light Oracle and the Dark Oracle tell the ruling council what to do to end this devastation, no one asks questions.
Almost 4.0 (As I write this review, I'm actually rounding up to 4)This was a fun read.
Jones had a way of smooth prose and timing.
This book was actually much darker than I'd expected (despite the title) and I'm not really sure I'd call it "YA", as the marketing has it.
The ending almost disappointed me too, but then I put into perspective the type of book I was reading.
I'm actually giving extra props for Jones being able to make me take this story seriously enough to question that ending.
I mean, I get that part of the plot of the story was that there was so much going on and things were getting out of everyone's control...
(hide spoiler)]Speaking of too much and too serious, there was some dark stuff that happened in this book, but it's all sort of glossed over either by magicking it away or by it not really happening.I probably would've rated this a 2-star read for most of the book, but I liked the ending.
The Dark Lord of Derkholm is one of those novels that provides an entertaining story as well as subverting the typical ideas and expectations of the fantasy genre.
The tourism company that manages these escapades happens to have made an arrangement with the people of this world, that every time a group is brought across a show of fantasy might and magic must be performed.
It does so by providing a world which pretends to be what people expect from a fantasy land, when in reality the inhabitants of this world are a little more settled and realistic than all of that.
I've only read a couple Diana Wynne Jones books before so I wasn't too sure what to expect.
Lately I've not been reading reviews or even blurbs before starting a book because I want to go into it with a completely open mind.
Derk has a little bit of a Dr Moreau meets Dr Doolittle feel about him.
I would have liked to have seen more of Mara and Shona.
They got relegated to the sidelines for the most part.Apart from requiring me to shift my preconceptions out this book was really enjoyable and I can see why Diana Wynne Jones was such an acclaimed author.
It took me some time to get into this book, which is likely my fault.
I find it hard to read anything with more depth than your average bubblegrum wrapper when I have a head cold, so it probably isn't a coincidence that this book finally clicked with me the same day that I started to feel better.
Because really, this book is often funny, wonderfully inventive, and features characters I came to care about a great deal.
A literal family of characters!
I love constructed families in my fiction, but I can also really get behind a loving biological family, too.
Derk is a nice, mild-mannered man who just wants to be left in peace and make weird animals, such as pigs and horses with wings, griffins that behave like members of the family, geese that are out for blood, carnivorous sheep, and friendly cows.
He had kind of the smallest part, but he may have been my favorite one of the five (besides, of course, Kit :D) because he was so understated.
It's great.-Elda: The youngest, and as such acts like it.
A general worrier.Overall verdict: This book fell a little flat, especially in the last few chapters where it was sometimes difficult to have any idea what was going on.
This is the fastest-paced DWJ book I've ever read, and several of the revelations at the end truly surprised me without seeming unreasoned.
And the plot itself is sheer brilliance.*SPOILERS*Like pretty much all DWJ books, this one has a sudden series of revelations at the end.
I'm actually really impressed by some stuff here - the Deucalion revelation and Geoffrey and Sukey's parentage, in particular, seem well set up but I never would have guessed.
Again, not hating her, but I don't think she's one of DWJ's stronger examples of the seemed-to-be-annoying-but-really-isn't character, a type she ordinarily does really well.4.
What I love about Diana Wynne Jones is how she can present a fantasy novel with a different angle than other fantasy novels with a standard plot - a boy or a girl, fated for something big, learning through ordeals, obtaining greatness.In  The Dark Lord of Derkholm , the world of magic had been forced to kneel down in front of a powerful force - namely, a Mr Chesney - and provide 'entertainment' every year for his Pilgrim Parties. These tourists from another world wanted to be involved in a fanta
So real that cities were sacked down, people were killed, fields were destroyed.After 40 years of devastation and slavery to Mr Chesney's moneymaking, the leaders of the world decided that they had had enough and went to the Oracles to consult for a way to end it all.
It turned out that to banish Mr Chesney's Pilgrim Parties for all, they had to appoint an obscure wizard named Derk the Dark Lord of the year, and his son Blade as one of the Wizard Guides.Well, Derk was not a household name in the world of wizardry.
Re-read August 5, 2016:THIS BOOK THOUGH. <3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3 IT'S EVEN MORE WONDERFUL ON REREAD. I LOVE IT SO MUCH. ^_^ *huggles all of it*First read December 13, 2012
This was a book that I loved so much growing up that I was actually quite nervous to re-read it as an adult.
Not only did it live up to them, this book knocked it out of the park.
“The Dark Lord of Derkholm” has the kind of societal commentary that both young and old can understand and appreciate all while being set in an awe-inspiring fantasy world.
I love Derk’s family as well.
It’s the kind of chaotic, somewhat-unorganized, close-knit family that I think everyone aspires to.
I had to immediately re-read the sequel to the book and will soon move on to Jones’ other books.
This YA fantasy from the incomparable Diana Wynne Jones reads as eerily prescient, but also homespun and of course, funny.     Derk was no ordinary wizard Citizens of a fantasy alt world rebel against the Trump-esque fat-cat tycoon who has exploited them for decades with Westworld-style tourist quests. Warmly comforting for underdogs everywhere.**Perhaps Trump, like the Derkholm villain, carries an all-powerful demon in his pocket? That would explain a lot.


This book had a different focus that I expected and not only because of that leaves me undecited on what to think about it.Starting with the positive aspects:I should warn you first, this is less about an amazing tour through a magical world or a rebellion than it is about family dynamics and planning.
While these dark themes are always there, the novel still manages to have a mostly fun and upbeat tone, however, it still makes you think.There is a diverse cast of characters and the family dynamics work great.
When the Oracles suggest that the mild-mannered wizard Derk, whose skills are mostly in agriculture and breeding magical creatures and who just wants to be left in peace with his family and his garden, should be appointed as Dark Lord for the year, things don't quite go according to plan.On one level, this is a very funny parody of fantasy clichés and, like the Tough Guide to Fantasyland, points out the unrealistic nature of much epic fantasy (quite apart from the fantastic elements).
*4.5 stars*I hadn't read anything by Diana Wynne Jones before and I'm glad I finally did. This book is goof and I like the world building. I love how this book started off in the action and I will definitely continue on with this series and I will read more of Diana Wynne Jones' books.
What a fun, fantasy story! I can't wait to discuss it in my book club tonight!
Thoughtful and charming.
Such a wonderful book! I loved it! It's a clever satire of epic fantasy adventures.
Fond enough apparently that when I got Goodreads, I found this title and marked it as a 5 star.Reading it in my late twenties, I honestly expected it to be a hilarious parody of the fantasy genre--a sort of fantasy The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
(view spoiler)[The book ends with many family members broken by the consequences of what they've had to do for the pilgrim parties.
(hide spoiler)]So I'm afraid I'll have to demote this book a couple stars.
Still, because I loved it as a teenager, it holds some fond memories for me.
No ideas in this book is going to blow your mind intellectually, but her ability to make you curious about a loose thread in the plot, hold that curiosity, and then satisfy it later, while keeping all those threads intertwined in ways that feel like they're actually contributing to the plot or character development, is impressive.
I don't know if I've ever read an author who so effectively juggled that many elements in a story and yet still brought everything together in a satisfying conclusion.I'm not so highbrow that I need to defend the nature of this book.
The idea was clever, showing how stale and cliche the fantasy genre was at the time, but the book really consisted of about a thousand characters doing nothing but planning.
The basic idea of the parody is that an American businessman, Mr. Chesney, owns a business where he sends tourist groups into the fantasy world where the book takes place.
Each year, the citizens of this fantasy world have to set up an elaborate "quest" for each of the groups to go on.
Dark Lord of Derkholm is a comical parody of epic fantasy: Fantasyland is overrun by tourists expecting to go on quests and slay this year's Dark Lord: the wizard Derk, who breeds all sorts of magical animals, from sarcastic geese to carnivorous sheep, and has no interest in pretending to be evil.
This is a great book if you're looking for a laugh, and it has a few perks beyond that: many little truths about human relations appear in the interactions of Derk's family, and there are a couple of deeper themes.
I really liked a lot of the ideas in this (the main idea of a world being controlled from a villain in another and forced to run magical adventure tourist guides is rather fabulous), but somehow it dind't hang together entirely for me.I really liked the Derkholm family, though the four griffins took a while to differentiate.
The magic system and the politics are kinda fun, and Derk's magic is great.
There were quite a few moments of awesome, but on the other hand, there almsot felt like there was too much going on, and the main thrust of the story got lost.
Another fun book by talented fantasy writer Diana Wynne Jones.
In this case, the Dark Lord of Derkholm is actually an animal-loving, quirky veterinarian/botanist/family man, Derk, who has been selected to play the role of "Dark Lord" for the annual Pilgrim tours.
Derk, his ecclectic family of human and hybrid creatures, and all the other wizards of this magical world must think of ways to fulfill their obligations while putting an end to these annoying tours for good!
This was a fun read, but it was not quite as good as some of her other books (there were too many characters to keep track of, and thus only cursory understanding of each character's personality).
I had mixed feelings about this book while reading. It was stressful for a while because it was too close to real life. And I didn't grow particularly fond of any of the characters; my favorite character is my favorite due more to how other characters reacted to him than his own merit. But it had its charm. I loved the parts involving elves. I thought the concept of a fantasy world being exploited by someone in our world for tourism purposes was pretty clever and enjoyed the stereotypical quest milestones of the tours.
