https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5664985-along-for-the-ride
But then, about 1/3 to 1/4 of the way from the end, SOMETHING HAPPENS TO SCREW THINGS UP, usually causing the girl's retreating for some reason into her original repressions/assumptions8.
GIRL REUNITES WITH BOY; HAPPINESS INTO FORESEEABLE FUTURE.There is no doubt Ms. Dessen works and reworks this material very, very well -- she has wonderful, fully developed image systems (in this one, the idea of what being a girl means, and riding a bike); the prose flows gorgeously; her supporting characters are consistently marvelous; the dialogue is terrific and realistic, particularly when it's teenagers sitting around b.s.'ing; every i is dotted and t crossed writingwise.
And finally, reading Sarah Dessen is like eating comfort food: you always know what you're going to get, a tasty, satisfying treat.Auden has just finished her senior year and looks forward to spending the summer like she usually does: staying home and studying, while occasionally attending the parties hosted by her mom for her grad students.
However, instead of following routine like she usually does, Auden decides to spend the summer at the attractive beach town where her dad and his new family reside.
I'm already looking forward to reading another book by Sarah Dessen.Want to read more of my reviews?
The whole appeal with Sarah Dessen and the million or so romance books she's churned; she's no Stephanie Perkins but reading her work is just so easy.
(Of course, this analogy is entirely redundant if vanilla happens to be your favourite flavour and you hate chocolate.) (In which case, WHAT ARE YOU?)In fact, let me add to that comparison: with Along For The Ride, I thought I ordered a nice, rich scoop of caramel, drizzled with hot fudge and whipped cream abound, but what I got instead was a $1 cone from McDonalds.I feel like this story held so much potential.
It's a comfort to read her work, because you know you are going to come away with something to think about.
I  love  Sarah Dessen's writing.
We don't see this relationship much in young adult books and it made me smile to see Dessen use her own life experiences and insert them in her writing.
Everything is always done so well: character development, dialogue, growth it's no wonder people love Dessen's work.
Dessen should totally write a book about him.
I want to mention all the minor characters (like always there is a lot going on) but I simply can't.
3.5 stars  ”Maybe it’s true, and being a girl could not be about interest rates and skinny jeans, riding bikes and wearing pink. Not about any one thing, but everything.”  Although the story was a bit slow, it was written nice and easy. I really liked the premise and the characterization of AudenShe grew up under the strict tutelage of her intimidating, condescending mother while her barely visible dad always manages to escape his daddy roles in the guise of perfecting his craft in writing. I do
I really liked the premise and the characterization of AudenShe grew up under the strict tutelage of her intimidating, condescending mother while her barely visible dad always manages to escape his daddy roles in the guise of perfecting his craft in writing.
Blame it to my poor social skills.So overall, Auden’s journey in rediscovering herself, rediscovering people, actually experiencing childhood (i.e. learning how to ride a bike), gaining friends and even a romantic interest, understanding her parents and learning to loosen up and do things just for fun in an entire course of one summer is a story I quite enjoyed.
I know Colby is a fictional beach town, but I still totally feel like I've been there after reading so many Dessen stories in that setting.
Achievement became her thing, so she missed out on typical activities like riding a bike, going to prom, or having a group of friends.
Instead of staying home with her professor mother this summer and studying like usual, Auden goes to the beach town of Colby to stay with her dad and his new wife & baby.
There are a lot of bike-riding metaphors, like how Auden just needed a little push to get going on her own.
Meaning- BIKER DUDENow, see I thought it’d be some great guy who’s hot and sports a six pack and all..basically my dream guy in every book.DA HELL TO THE NO.This dude.......*restrains from wanting to strangle him*HE’S STUPID.HE HAS A FREAKING IQ OF A DAMN CHEETO PUFF.There’s just nothing to him!!He’s got the looks, everything else is just.....0_0.......And this leads to number two!
They just have no life to them whatsoeverAuden, (MC), gives no more than a crap on making friends, and like...is the next freaking Einstein at school tho.Eli...................the dumb biker dude -_-Her mom- an assholeHer dad- even more of an assholePEOPLES U CAN SEE WHERE IM GOING WITH THIS.And there I go, stupidly reading all 383 pages of useless nothing.
not the best sarah dessen, but, you know, not the worst.there's kind of an interesting exploration of feminism and female gender identity in here???
a lot of this book works as a depiction of women who can be both smart and pretty, both sporty and girly, both intellectual and pink dress-wearing.it does so sloppily.
and maybe inconclusively?but it tries.unfortunately: still a boring-as-hell guy.
still a boring-as-hell girl.
and also a whole lot about bikes, which is weird as hell.bottom line: i say again - not the worst dessen.
Cross-posted from my  blog review . Auden is your classic overachiever: she’s studious and entirely too serious. What’s more, she deprived herself of a normal high school experience—one with friends and fun—opting instead for the academic route. Which did indeed work, because she got into a great university, the one she’d be attending come August. In the meantime, there is the whole summer stretching before her, and suddenly, spending it at home with her holier-than-thou, my-feminism-is-better-t
So, Auden decides to spend summer in Colby (this isn’t set in Lakeview!) with her father, her stepmother Heidi (whom her mother deems a waste of space because of her girly tendencies), and their newborn Thisbe (her father is also a literary snob).She isn’t sure exactly what to expect in Colby, but it’s definitely not what she finds: a hookup she stupidly stumbled upon, her father immersed in his novel and not paying any heed to Heidi and the ever-crying Thisbe, Heidi’s imminent breakdown, or the job she inadvertently falls into, keeping the books for Heidi’s shop, Clementine’s.
Ultimately that’s what this story was a bout for me, some people might see it as a love story, but for me is was a story of transformation.Even though I’ve read almost every novel Dessen has written, it still surprises me how engrossed I can become in the atmosphere and settings that she creates.
I’ve read people complain about how every Dessen book is the same, and to some extent I agree with them.
I’ve never felt the same emotionally with any of her novels.
Along for the Ride is outstanding and it’s a great summer read!
In my opinion, Sarah Dessen is one of the best young adult writers out there today.
This book happens to be my second favorite book from her.
It's odd how Dessen can make you feel like you know her characters personally.
I love that about her writing, because she makes it so easy to identify with her characters.
When I finished this book, I was almost upset about it.
I didn't want to leave behind the characters and in some ways I felt like I was saying goodbye to friends.
That’s a true sign that you've just read a really great book.
I love you, Sarah Dessen!"Along For the Ride" is about a girl called Auden, who just finished high school and is spending the summer before college visiting her dad and his new wife and newborn baby in their beach town. Auden has insomnia and spends her nights aimlessly driving around, until she meets Eli, who also can't sleep at night, and they start hanging out together. This is the PERFECT book for reading at the pool or the beach. One of my favorite 'summer-feel' books.   "That was one of th
I love you, Sarah Dessen!"Along For the Ride" is about a girl called Auden, who just finished high school and is spending the summer before college visiting her dad and his new wife and newborn baby in their beach town.
One of my favorite 'summer-feel' books.
It was like the dark evened it all out somehow.""The night changed things, widening out the scope.
I love how this book encourages you to be ALL THE THINGS.
Just because you're girly and like the color pink, doesn't mean you're dumb.
Not about any one thing, but everything."I loved this book, and I absolutely recommend it.
This is the best new-to-me Sarah Dessen book I've read since the days of The Truth About Forever and Dreamland. This was exactly what I was in the mood for and I actually really enjoyed it. This makes me want to re-read all of my old Sarah Dessen favorites. Awh.
“Relationships don't always make sense. Especially from the outside”  For the past few days, I started reading a bunch of Contemporary Novels. I noticed that I enjoyed Saint Anything so much and decided that I wanted to read more books by Sarah Dessen. So I am on a "Sarah Dessen Marathon" and I want to finish all of her books before I go start any others. I know that I wont be reading one of her books because I am not interested in it, but I am planning on reading the rest. And I am really enj
She has this way of making her books so easy to relate to and I just love that about Sarah Dessen.
This book inspired me in so many different ways, it had me thinking about so many things.
,/b> In some ways, Auden felt the same way, and that is one of the things I liked about this book.
It was weird because ever since I started reading this book, I felt like I was lonely.
Ever since I started to read books, I felt like I was never alone.
Video review is  linked here. Okay, Sarah, you finally got one right. I enjoyed this book and it was a quick read that helped me escape all the upheaval in my life right now. I liked Auden and her arc, I loved Eli and the friends that Auden made. Heck I even loved Hollie even as I hated Auden's actual parents. It was a fun summer read and for once didn't have anything problematic in it that stood out to me.
Edit: 4.5 stars after this reread. No idea why I rated it 3 stars back in 2012!
The problem with Sarah Dessen's books is not that she uses the same formula in every single one.
She's good at it, people like it - what one can do one must do, etc., etc.No, the problem is that she uses the same deadass doorknob of a female protagonist every single time.
And my God, they are boring as hell.Auden, by far, is the deadest doorknob of them all.
You cannot just walk around without a personality and have people enjoy your company.The actual story doesn't really exist.
PEOPLE LIKE THEM.
THAT DOESN'T MAKE YOU AN OUTCAST) and their insomnia.
judging from the ratings by other goodreads reviewers, i guess it is only me.
We do get holidays here, but judging by the way the summer is described in Along for the Ride, you would think the characters in the book honestly have no purpose in life.
how many times have i read the line "i did not know how to reply to that".
Seriously, the whole purpose of this book is just lost on me.
of course it is about second chances if that word keeps popping up on every single page for the last part of the book!!!!
i own a copy of this book.
All the loose ends tied up in a big, red bow.Along for the Ride details the summertime adventures of Auden, a studious, sheltered girl who just graduated high school and decides to spend the summer with her dad, a narcissistic one-time author trying to finish his second novel, his much younger wife and their new baby in order to take a break from her emotionally aloof, highly-driven mother.
My only complaint--and this is just a personal thing--is that "Jesus" was used as kind of a curse word several times when "Jeez" (or something else just as innocuous) could have been easily substituted.
The divorce effected her very much and so she fell into studying,learning...She never did anything social or enjoyed her childhood and now to think of it she almost skipped it.But that years summer, she goes to her Dad who lives in Colby with a women who he has a child from.
Auden meets this guy called Eli, she doesnt even really know him, but they spend a lot of their nights together as they both stay up late (Auden because before the divorce her parents were up fighting late at night) making up for the stuff that she never did in her childhood.
160 and leading up to it, I cannot believe the reason it was OK for Auden to be talking to Eli WASN'T because people aren't fucking possessions but because actually Eli and Belissa (UGH BELISSA ALSO OF COURSE SHE HAS BAD SKIN AND A POINTY NOSE) are actually broken up DUH!I'm sorry, but "hot dog party" sounds more like a "sausage party" to me.OK I finished it while out and away from my computer, but, anyway, other issues:I hate the implication that the only way to truly let people into your life and not be a lonely bitch is romantic attachment.
Edit: След като имах време от снощи до сега да помисля за тази книга, реших, че все пак ще запазя първоначалното си впечатление и ще смаля рейтинга до 3 звезди.
Първата книга на Сара Десен, която четох, "Истината за завинаги" беше по-добрата, на нея дадох 4 звезди, а в сравнение с нея, "Заедно на път" беше доста по-слаба, за това все пак ще сваля на 3 звезди.Отдавна не бях чела книга толкова бързо.
Имаше неща, които не ми допадаха изобщо (като изключително дразнещото Или, което трябва да е името на любовния интерес на героинята, а всъщност името му се чете Илай), но накрая реших, че ще бъдат 4 звезди, просто, защото ме накара да се усмихна.
Just...boring.
It was slow moving & uneventful, but easy to read once you actually convinced yourself to pick the book back up.
Eh, the girl support in this book was refreshing after having read a few contemporaries where the MC ripped other girls apart because of how they dressed, looked, etc.
That's definitely a notable plus of this book.
There are better Sarah Dessen books than this one, so unless you're on a mission to read all of her published works (like I am), then I'd ultimately give this one a pass.
“It was so easy to disown what you couldn't recognize, to keep yourself apart from things that were foreign and unsettling. The only person you can be sure to control, always, is yourself. Which is a lot to be sure of, but at the same time, not enough.” Normally you'd expect the romance to take center stage in contemporaries like those written by Sarah Dessen, but I have to say, this element in her books is almost always sweet but highly underwhelming, it takes a backseat to character developme
“It was so easy to disown what you couldn't recognize, to keep yourself apart from things that were foreign and unsettling.
The only person you can be sure to control, always, is yourself.
Which is a lot to be sure of, but at the same time, not enough.”
Normally you'd expect the romance to take center stage in contemporaries like those written by Sarah Dessen, but I have to say, this element in her books is almost always sweet but highly underwhelming, it takes a backseat to character development, friendships and complicated family matters, and I truly appreciate this.
Auden and Eli as a couple left me pretty cold, but I loved their personal growth and their relationships with the supporting cast.
I feel Dessen’s technique was deliberate, well timed and executed with precision.The story is about Auden who decides to spend the summer before her college freshman year in the beach town called Colby, where her father now lives with his new wife and newborn baby.
The summer she spends in Colby drastically changes her way of thinking and acting, and it is refreshing to see her transformation.I really enjoyed this book, but it took me a while to get there.
So if you read it and find yourself annoyed with Auden, don’t give up on her.
I keep repeating myself but that's what really connects me with the story and Sarah Dessen always delivers great family dynamics (even though both of her parents are selfish but insecure idiots here) that develops over time.
What bothered me is that Eli is most definitely not explored enough as a character which led to me not really warming up to him (even though he's a cute night owl, but still) and not feeling the spark between him and Auden that much.
This may not be my favourite Sarah Dessen book but it's definitely in the top 5.
“It was so risky and so scary, and yet at the same time, so beautiful. Maybe the truth was, it shouldn’t be easy to be amazing. Then everything would be. It’s the things you fight for and struggle with before earning that have the greatest worth.” 3 1/2 stars. Another great installment to the contemporary genre. I didn't think this book was quite as good as Just Listen by Sarah Dessen, but once again I was blown away by this author's ability to take an ordinary character in an ordinary situatio
I didn't think this book was quite as good as Just Listen by Sarah Dessen, but once again I was blown away by this author's ability to take an ordinary character in an ordinary situation and make me care about them so deeply - to truly make me feel the love, loss, and growth going on in that character's life.Now, true to my expectations of bright pink covers and fluffy titles, this book is a romance, but it's so much more than just a "boy meets girl" story.
Auden finds herself opening up to Eli over late-night coffee, though she won't admit to him her biggest secret: she can't ride a bike.I love how Sarah Dessen does romance differently from other authors - she lets us get to know the main character before the love interest is introduced.
I even dragged my feet through the last 50 pages just so I could stay in the pages with this world for a little while longer.The story focuses on Auden, who has always been serious, adult like, head in her books, never playful or silly her entire life.
She has never stepped out of her safe, often isolated, world of academics until she decides to spend her summer before college with her Dad, new wife, and baby sister where she is definitely out of her comfort zone.There she meets a whole new cast of characters who teach her friendship, how to trust, have fun, and perhaps love.
Soon she find herself working at a boutique with a bunch of girls that act like, well, teens and Auden has spent most of her teenage years trying to be perfect for her demanding mother instead of actually living a life and being, well, a teen.In the middle of her non-sleeping episodes, she meets Eli – because there’s always a boy.
Soon they are spending every night together, setting out on different tasks, and also, learning how to ride a bike – at least Auden.
And this novel might just be my favorite of all of them but it's so hard to choose between "This Lullaby", "The Truth About Forever" and now, "Along for the Ride".
But the heartening feeling you get as you read through Auden's adventure...man.I won't deny that I would've done a few things differently than Auden but she's come so close to what I'm like--except I'm far from as academically driven as she was.
But there are a lot of things that struck a chord.Another great novel by Sarah Dessen.
'Cause it's so hard to wait for one novel every two years.
