https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12900174-the-vincent-boys

[image error] WARNING THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SWEARING! It's time to write this review. Oh man,I want to barf. If you thought Breathe sucked check this 'jewel' out. It started out great:Chick's(Ashton) boyfriend(Sawyer) goes on some motherfu***ng mountain trip and leaves her all alone with her her stupid religious parents and what's a girl to do than to rekindle her friendship with a towns bad boy(Beau)... Anyway,she hooks up with Beau and when I say she hoops up i mean-the preacher's daughter f**
It started out great:Chick's(Ashton) boyfriend(Sawyer) goes on some motherfu***ng mountain trip and leaves her all alone with her her stupid religious parents and what's a girl to do than to rekindle her friendship with a towns bad boy(Beau)...
After her boyfriend comes back from camping and eventually finds out about the cheating the whole freaking school bullies her a** and the perfect-now-ex-boyfriend who is by Ashton's 'common' sense not in fact perfect(what a shocker!) does nothing and lets people lynch the stupid cheating whore while Beau is missing.
Eventually he also comes back and Ashton is all hot and ready for some bad boy loving.
At first I was so skeptical because of the love triangle thingy and the involvement of the major character Sawyer and especially the fact that there was cheating involved, but believe me when I say that all of these things did not matter as I've read the book because there was nothing seriously heavy about the story.
And oh, who doesn't love a hot, gorgeous bad boy like Beau who does everything to protect his girl?
Overall, it's a nice guilty-pleasure and feel-good book-- something that basically cures reading slumps.
Ashton, Beau, and Sawyer were inseparable childhood friends.
Beau and Sawyer, "the Vincent boys" are cousins, but its Ashton and Beau who are close.
Sawyer is first to make a move, and Ash, thinking Beau isn't interested in her in that way, accepts him.
Ash struggles to be the perfect girlfriend, always worried that she doesn't measure up to Sawyer.
However, when Sawyer goes on vacation with his family for the summer, Ash and Beau start hanging out all the time.
You wonder how this is all going to play out, because Ash is the girlfriend of Beau's cousin and best friend.
Now, her boyfriend (the good and proper one) Sawyer Vincent is out of town for the summer and she spends it with Beau Vincent - his cousin, the town bad boy.
The three of them used to be best friends but ever since Ash and Sawyer started dating, Beau became distant.
While the summer goes by, Ash and Beau get close again, they rekindle their friendship and even more.
Sawyer comes back and then there is drama… I was cheering for the bad boy Beau all the time because you can’t help but feel they are destined to be together.If you are into high school angst and Abbi Gline’s drama, this one will definitely work.
The plot is very, very unoriginal, at first I guess that is what drew me in, knowing the story and ultimately just loving the swoon worthy moments books like this promise however I have to say it turned out that the plot is one the things that I disliked most about this book.
The way Beau focused so much on Ashton's physical appearance really bothered me, same goes to the way Ashton looked at Beau like he was a piece of meat.
The protective/possesive thing with Beau got way too out of hand and don't get me started on how sexist this book is.
Not that the story wasn't good, but because I was so emotional about it and I didn't see a way for anyone, not anyone, to have a happy ending.
The way she brings all things in, all people, all walks of life makes for a beautiful story.
Though it may hurt me to read it all, it was beautiful nonetheless.Anybody who knows me at this point knows I don't like love triangles.
It's one of those lessons learned.I'm so glad that I finished it and got to see how Abbi finished things up in a way that satisfied everyone as much as they could be.

I had been reading some awesome books (The Iron Queen and Bad to the Bone).
The books (who will not be named) are not bad, just, ya know, not what I was looking for.
When author Abbi Glines sent me the email with the book attached, I wanted it, bad.
She wants to be what is expected of her, but she also wants to be the girl who knows how to have fun and get into a little trou As for the Vincent boys, Sawyer and Beau, oh boy!
I think we've all come across a Beau before (mine's name was Jody, looong story.
Brilliant!Ashton is a preacher's daughter striving for perfection, but never quite feels connected to the innocent persona she's created in the hopes of pleasing her 'perfect' boyfriend, Sawyer.
This amazing story not only grabbed my attention, but allowed me to leave behind my own reality and just live in the world of the Vincent Boys for a while—and I love that about Abbi's writing.
▪	 Genre/Category: Romance/NA▪	 Steam Caliber: Extremely steamy.▪ Romance: Love triangle▪	 Characters: Well developed and layered.▪	 Plot: A well executed, tactful love triangle involving three teens who have been friends since childhood.
Too much angst and not enough romance. But I 100% only read this because i wanted something light, corny, and obnoxious, and this definitely delivered that even if the relationship was a bit dry and upsetting because it was based on cheating
* * * * * 5 First Love Stars * * * * *Ashton, Sawyer, and Beau grew up together and were best friends.
Fast forward years later: Beau has turned into the town bad boy, Ashton is the perfect preacher’s daughter, and Sawyer is the perfect...everything.
I love Beau and Ashton together.
Beau is sexy, confident, protective, and a little crass.
Despite being a little rough around the edges he brings out the best in Ashton.
I love a story with forbidden love, and Abbi didn’t disappoint with this one.
Buddy read with my girl and fellow Abbi lover Dayna!
when in alabama, bang your bf’s cousin while he’s away for the summerthe end
Wow! I just finished this book in one sitting. I could. not. put. it. down! Talk about steamy!!! I'm pretty sure I'm in love with Beau. Like seriously in love. What a great, great book!!!
Ash: “Salve, gente. Il mio nome è Ashton, e sono vergine perchè il mio ragazzo è un tipo casa e chiesa. Ma io ho un po' l'animo della troietta, e voglio disperatamente farmi suo cugino Bo'.”Voci fuori campo: “Ma che sei cretina? Non puoi! Così rovinerai la tua reputazione!”Ash: “Ehi guys, c'avete ragione. Ma io c'ho proprio 'na voglia...”  Fu così che Ashton e "Bo'" incominciarono a slinguazzare spensierati, a giocare a biliardo, a fare le capriole nei posti più romantici del mondo (…) e a senti
Metteteci anche che lei non è immune al suo fascino, che qualsiasi cosa lui faccia – anche semplicemente sputare a terra – la fa arrapare;- s’incazza come una bestia parlando della tipa di lui;- va dicendo “io col mio ragazzo non faccio niente, a parte dargli quattro bacini, ma vorrei sperimentare altro”;- invitare il suddetto "amico" a casa per un film, mettersi un abito cortissimo per stare a casa e sentirsi COMODA, annusarlo perché sa di sapone, ritrovarsi a toccarlo dappertutto .
"Porca puttana, Ash. La tua patatina stretta è mia.
The story of a girl whose heart is torn between two boys, her perfect boyfriend Sawyer who is loved and admired by all and his cousin Beau, the local bad boy who is sexy and irresistible.There are several reasons why I think The Vincent Boys is incredible and here are just a few of them.Even though it is a YA book it is a lot more mature and sexy than most, so if like me you are on the higher side of the young adult age bracket (or are older than that) and are a little fed up with romance that is on the level of what a 13 year old would experience then this is perfect.
It quickly became obvious that Beau, too, was nothing more than a cardboard cut-out of every other character ever.The Vincent Boys is about two cousins, Sawyer and Beau, who were best friends with Ashton.
What I truly fucking hated with the passion of a thousand fiery suns is how Ashton ruined the friendship between Beau and Sawyer for her own selfish needs.
Sawyer is away with his parents for the summer so poor, lonely, unloved Ashton decides to "rekindle" her old friendship with Beau.When you're rekindling a friendship, you do not dry-hump your friend's lap.
And from there, it's a series of dramatic go betweens that have to do with Beau, Ash, and Sawyer getting caught in the whirlwind of revelations and cruelty games.I did see parts of this narrative that at least *attempted* to have the characters come to terms with the fact that there was a cheating relationship, that sentiments were realized and personal flaws exposed, but it felt like those were passing marks in comparison to the drama and its flares.
Quick reviewCover: Eye Catching Rating  R Thumbs Up 4.5Overall: Couldn’t stop reading!Characters: Really Good.Plot: Drama like a soap opera.Page Turner: Yes. Series Cont.? Yes. Recommend  Yes.Book Boyfriend: BeauSUMMARY (50 words or less)Going in I didn’t read the summary. I wanted a fresh read. Boy, my mouth dropped and was held agape through most of this story. I was captured in this story’s grip until the final pages. My heart was conflicted between the two boys. My only complaint, it ended.To see my full review and pic, check out my blog post below.http://mybookboyfriend.blogspot.com/2...
For a moment, I was having Cage and Willow deja vu, even though I knew this book came before Because of Low. I'm pretty sure when I eventually read Cage's book I'll have Beau deja vu.I am an admitted bad boy lover, but I don't think calling your promiscuous girlfriend a whore (multiple times) gives you an extra hole punch on the bad boy card.
He better go extra bad in book 2 because no one wants to read about a guy who has the personality of a postage stamp.Ashton (Ash) - Pretty blonde with curly hair, long legs, a tan, and a nice body - yet she thinks she's no beauty queen.
I love how she develops as a heroine, and makes her final choice based on what she wants and takes her time with that decision instead of just jumping in feet first with no care for anyone else’s feelings.
In spite of our helpless reaction to cringe every time there is a love triangle in a book, Ms. Glines doesn’t make us suffer, rather makes this trope work by making it easy for us to choose Beau over Sawyer as the victor of the battle of our hearts.Overall, The Vincent Boys is an entertaining and light read.
Abbi Glines knows how to write a bad boy.I loved being in Beau's head and hearing what he was thinking.
Beau totally stole the show in this book.
Ashton said it best, "When did you get all sweet and charming?" Every girl wants a bad boy who will be good just for her!
I'm not a fan of love triangles and that is one of reasons why I didn't like the book Thoughtless.
Even though this book was about a love triangle I totally loved it.
Abbi Glines did a great job portraying their story.
Spinoff55th book of 2013
Whenever she's around with Beau Vincent, the bad boy in their town who happens to be Sawyer's cousin, she feels carefree on who she really is.
To be honest, I can't help but be annoyed with Ash. It's wrong to go behind Sawyer's back while he's away during Summer for Beau.
Trying to understand her character, it's like she loved the wrong boy in the very beginning.
He reads a bible and should KNOW it's not good to judge someone.
I seriously love BEAU VINCENT.
Bad boys never failed to make me swoon and oh boy, I love Beau.
The Vincent Boys stole my heart and earned an all inclusive stay in my daydreams!Beau, Sawyer, and Ashton shared trouble and love while growing up in a small, southern town filled with gossip, gossip, and more gossip.
Beau balances out the town with his beautiful bad boy reputation.
Hold on to who you are and be yourself are two strong and wonderful messages for readers of any age to embrace.With just the right amount of southern hospitality and small town cattiness, this story creates a warm and cozy world that will pull you right in.
Always leave us wanting more!The Vincent Boys will make you swoon, smile, and never look at a stick shift quite the same way again!

Sometimes I hate it when I think of a book I've read before because the more I think of it then the more I want to reread it and I really don't have that sort of time (which I fucking hate!) but the second I thought of THE VINCENT BOYS by Abbi Glines yesterday at work then it was fucking set in stone; I WAS going to reread that fucker!Oh Beau *sigh* I didn't think I could love you anymore than I did the first time round but you have literally just warmed my heart and set my vagina on fire!!
I know I shouldn't want characters to be deceptive, cheating and hurtful, but I looove Ashton and Beau together!My heart did break for Sawyer though.
:( I do feel, strongly, in real life, that there is no excuse for infidelity and lies, like those of Ash and Beau's, but my God does it make for a good read.
I wanted her and Beau to end up together, despite feeling for Sawyer, and I can only attribute this empathy to great writing.
I have no doubt that after reading the next book, I will be Team Sawyer.
Did Not Finish Read 20% Not for me. Not a big Beau and Ashton fan. Whether or not Sawyer knew the real Ashton or thought she was too perfect, cheating is not romantic. Oh poor Ashton your boyfriend thinks you are too perfect what a real bummer why don't you go cheat on him with his cousin?!?!?!?!?! Ashton and Beau haven't spoken in years, then all of a sudden as soon as her boyfriend is out of town they are all over each other?!?! Gross. I stopped reading before I got really upset.
Buy this book on: |  Amazon  |  Barnes and Noble  |  Audible  |  BookDepository (FREE WORLDWIDESHIPPING)  |2 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). Ooookay. I'm currently trying to make sense of why I decided to read this book and have come to a conclusion. A) I wanted to see if this Abbi Glines series would be better than the other series I read (due to all the hype around Abbi Glines books). B) I knew I would be able to read this book suuuupppppper fast. C) I wanted some
A) I wanted to see if this Abbi Glines series would be better than the other series I read (due to all the hype around Abbi Glines books).
There was "telling, not showing" writing, overly cheesy dialogue, and characters that weren't convincing.
I guess the one thing that's stopping me from rating this book 1 star is the fact that I read it under an hour, which is a first for me!!!!!!!
Someone please tell me what the hype about Abbi Glines is (besides the fact that her writing reads suppppppperrrrr fast......?)My rating system: (I do use half stars.)5 - I do not use the 5 star.
They eventually grew apart, to the point that Beau didn't even know who Ashton was anymore.
But deep inside, Beau knows that the real Ashton he loved from afar and for so long was still hanging around her goody-two-shoes persona, bursting to come alive.
I think this is the FIRST ever love triangle that I could honestly say I truly enjoyed reading.
Heck, I don't even know if this book is being marketed as YA, so maybe this little reminder is moot.
I couldn't ask for a better book to risk getting in a whole slew of trouble at work.
2.5Jeez the over abundance of angst/drama in this has left me exhausted.And seriously my teenage life was like watching paint dry compared to this lot. Nothing is ever easy for Abbi Glines characters is it?! I've read a few of her books and they're all the same formula, clearly that works for some but it's just too over the top for me to really enjoy.
