https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/145660.The_Captive_Mind
The Captive Mind is Polish poet and Nobel prize winner Czeslaw Milosz's astute 1953 work of non-fiction speaking to the attraction of totalitarianism for writers, artists and intellectuals.In his first chapter Czeslaw Milosz explores how the vision of Stanislaw Ignacy Witkiewicz 's novel Insatiability written during the 1920s became a reality for much of Eastern Europe.
Although always susceptible to the lure of Historical Materialism and its pitiless iron laws, Miłosz—a poet to the depths of his soul—simply was unable to accept the illusory as real, the lie as truth; and thus, after resigning himself to a life of exile, wherein his beloved Polish language would be unreachable, this remarkably clear-sighted individual would write The Captive Mind as a textual lesson for those of the West who doggedly sought to understand the all-encompassing, mesmerizing allure of this brutally conformist, collective mindset loudly declaiming the imminent victory of inexorable necessity.Though the author's experience was of Stalinist communism, his analysis of the mental and spiritual attractions that totalitarianism presents to the intellectual are of such a sound structure that they further elucidate the hold authoritarian rule of all stripes exerts upon the allegiance of those seemingly best disposed to oppose such constricting bonds.
However, just like in Witkacy's novel, human material subjected to this process begin to suffer from a split personality - people forced to exist in the new system cannot completely abandon their old beliefs, views and habits, which forces them to live in a state of what could be called reverse schizophrenia: they become masters at understanding murti-binguism, consciously tracking down improper thoughts and deviations from the norm, straining to be natural against their own nature, while surrounded by the pervading aura of strength and unhappiness.
The rage one feels on reading sixteenth-century memoirs whose authors, mostly priests, recount the atrocities committed in America by Spanish Conquistadors is senseless. It cannot resurrect the Caribbean population slaughtered by Ponce de Leon, nor shelter the Inca refugees pursued through the mountains by knights fighting with faith and a sword. Those who have been defeated are forgotten forever; and anyone who would look too closely into the record of past crimes or, even worse, try to imagin
The fact that white people in the US have stolen and continue to steal culture from their black population scoffs at this work's hesitating minutiae over the mentality of various Soviet artists, minutiae that is granted a great deal of space by the sacrifice of the peasant artist, the female artist, the artist in the 'West' whose problems are much more threatening than materialism or the emptiness of capitalism.
It's a good read to help blow away any bits of American propaganda about Soviets that are being taught in school still, and help you see the other side of the issue.
Mind, this book was written by a man who left as well, so it isn't as if he agrees with the Soviets, he was actually forced out.
It explains so much about how the Soviet Union held together so long, given what we now know about it's inner corruption and the thinness of belief in it's last decades.I mean, it's a classic for a reason.
It should be required reading.
I found that a recent reading of Ashes & Diamonds (very accessible in style) helped me get so much more out of the chapter on Andrzejewski, aka Alpha, that, having decided a couple of days earlier that Borowski was going to be too much for me after all, like I'd always thought, that I would try speed reading This Way for the Gas before I embarked on the chapter about 'Beta'.I'd also been wary of The Captive Mind for a few years, but not for nearly so long as of This Way for the Gas. This related to another Goodreads review, posted nearly four years ago.
But Thielicke was also a member the Church and also spoke out against the Nazis.
Thielicke’s writings give us a window into life under the Reich.Thielicke reports that among the first to morally capitulate in Nazi Germany were the non-Jewish professors and intellectuals.
In “The Captive Mind”—which reads like a gripping novel—Czesław Miłosz tells a similar story of Poland, especially about its middle class intelligentsia.
But, in this case, it was not the Nazis to which they surrendered their minds and consciences.During WW II, there was little temptation to join the Nazis in Poland because the Germans considered Poles (and all Slavs) racially inferior.
This wonderful book by the great Lithuanian-Polish poet Czeslaw Milosz, so exhilirating because it is so authentically human, so sad because it is so true, is one of the best of these books--and it is short.The following excerpt illustrates the way Milosz brings a poet's eye and sensibility to extreme experiences:"The vision of the burning ghetto [of Warsaw] is too welded into all I have lived through in my adult years for me to speak of it quietly.
Life and death mingle for a second, before a bloody rag falls to the pavement and is kicked aside by an SS boot." (Page 184)Milosz clears away the fog of homicidal abstractions that clouded the world for a hundred years during the twentieth century.
Es tremendo libro, no solo por como es que resalta el que la dialéctica necesita de el arte para convencer a la gente, y aún así no puede reemplazar una necesidad intrínseca de el ser humano de ser libre.
La creatividad siempre he pensado que debe ser algo libre, pero también es una necesidad, y en un sistema como el que vivió Polonia comunista, se ve esto de irte metiendo sin querer en algo, y en como la Historia, así, con mayúscula, puede definir tanto el camino que tomas en tu vida.
Dönüp baktığımda bana safi inceleme olarak sunulmuş olsa belki sıkılır giderdim ama kitaba kendimi kaptırıp okuduğum, okurken de betimlemeleri ve düşünceleri ile beni heyecanlandırdığı için okumaktan büyük keyif aldığım bir eser oldu.Yazar bizleri, doğu avrupanın ikinci dünya savaşı dönemlerinde karşılıyor.
〰Bir şeyden özgürlük, bu çok şeydir ama yeterli değildir; bir şeye doğru özgürlükten çok daha az şeydir.〰Mademki -diye akıl yürütür insan- kendimi, değişimine hiçbir etkimin olamayacağı şartlar içinde bulmuşum, üstelik bir kez yaşanıyor ve yaşam da durmadan akıp gidiyor, öyleyse yaşamımı, olabilecek en iyi şeye dönüştürmeye çalışmalıyım.
The Nobel laureate Miłosz was a true giant of literature and he employed his keen mind to dissect and scrutinise the ways in which artists and intellectuals in Eastern Europe adapted themselves to the reality of the totalitarian socialism (and Socrealism).
Published in the early 1950s, Captive Mind is strangely relevant today — for while History vindicated Miłosz fully, the apologists are yet to die out, the sinister totalitarian trends are once again rearing their ugly heads, and the intellectuals and public figures of certain countries — not least of which is Poland — continue to debase themselves with doublethink as they fall under the spell of the resurgent nationalist ideologies.
Upon returning to Poland he worked as a commentator at Radio Wilno, but was dismissed for his leftist views.Miłosz spent World War II in Warsaw, under Nazi Germany's "General Government," where, among other things, he attended underground lectures by Polish philosopher and historian of philosophy and aesthetics, Władysław Tatarkiewicz.
After the war Miłosz served as cultural attaché of the communist People's Republic of Poland in Paris.
When the Iron Curtain fell, Miłosz was able to return to Poland, at first to visit and later to live part-time in Kraków, while continuing to spend time each year in America.
Even though this as described as an "anti-communist" book, it's far more than that-- it's a plea against totalitarianism of all kinds, not for the usual things (human rights violations, etc.) but for how the mind is effectively colonized.
Now, I should point out that Milosz is far more persuasive when he's narrating the lives of his fellow Polish writers-- reminiscent of the film Mephisto-- then when he's making generalizations.
Granted, this was a stylistic thing in the '50s, something that writers of all stripes and political persuasions did, and only a few thinkers (big ups to Beauvoir and Merleau-Ponty!) were able to transcend.
Published in 1951, The Captive Mind was Milosz' attempt to explain why intellectuals from the Eastern Bloc countries were willing to tolerate and eventually accept the 'New Faith' (Stalinism) in the post-war years.
But Milosz makes it clear--the title of his book is not The Liberated Mind--the 'New Faith' of Stalinism was its own trap.
A great book- Orwellian in its tough minded appraisal of a miserable mindset, political in its interests and powerful in its imaginitive subversion. This book belongs to the select company of texts which are novel(istic), essay(istic), and philosophically stringent about their world, their politics, and their language....I'd put it with 'Catalonia' (sorry to reiterate the praise, but for me there's scarcely a higher honor) and Camus' "The Rebel" in terms of durability, prophecy, and thoughtfulness. I'd love to quote from it but it was unfortunately left in my friend's glovebox and said car was repo'ed.
Poi si trasferisce in Occidente chiedendo asilo politico.Nel 1980 riceve il Nobel per la letteratura con la motivazione di colui “che con voce chiara e lungimirante espone la condizione degli uomini in un mondo di gravi conflitti”.Terribilmente toccanti sono le pagine in cui racconta l’esperienza dell’occupazione nazista in Polonia: Il dominio tedesco nell’Europa occidentale fu crudele, però mai come nei paesi dell’Est dove abitavano razze che secondo la dottrina del nazionalsocialismo erano degne o dello sterminio totale o di essere usate nel lavoro fisico più abbrutente.come anche l’amara storia dietro le quinte dell’insurrezione di Varsavia nel 1944, con l’Armata Rossa che resta ad aspettarne l’esito scontato dall’altra parte della Vistola:L’insurrezione di Varsavia, iniziata per ordine del governo in esilio a Londra, scoppiò come è noto nel momento in cui l’Armata Rossa si stava avvicinando alla capitale e le truppe tedesche in ritirata combattevano alla periferia della città.… Scopo dell’insurrezione era cacciare i tedeschi e impadronirsi della città in modo che l’Armata Rossa vi trovasse un governo polacco già insediato.
"The term 'peasant revolt' sounds nice in textbooks and has a certain propaganda value, but only for the naive. In reality, the peasants have almost always served as a tool; their leaders, most often of non-peasant origin, have used them for their own ends. The power of the peasants lies in their number; it is a power only when a man like Lenin comes along and throws the weight of their numbers into the scale of events." p.194-5
One makes all the protestations of faith that can please him, one performs all the rites one recognizes to be the most vain, one falsifies one’s own books, one exhausts all possible means of deceit.” – Arthur Gobineau, from ‘Religions and Philosophies of Central Asia’“The Captive Mind,” written in the early 1950s immediately after Milosz was awarded political asylum in France, is one of the first attempts to articulate the appeal of Communism (or, more broadly, dialectical materialism) to the intellectuals all over Eastern Europe.
Fascinating read.
Not only does that author vividly portray the suffering of the Polish nation but he also adds a personal touch to his writing.
I think this is very important as without it the book would have been just another history read listing facts and dates with a few personal paradigms here and there.
I would recommend this book to all those who propagate communism as I believe they are not aware of how this system was imposed on several countries in the aftermath of the Second World War. What I consider interesting is that modern-day liberals are using similar tactics in order to convert people into their own new-faith.
Oh man. This was way out of my normal box; and maybe that's why I couldn't get it or into it. I found the first chapter not so bad and found some good lines. However, as soon as he got into his writer friends, I just couldn't keep up. As much as I thought I was beginning to understand something, I lost it as I continued to read.
"Ciò che contraddistingue il sapere volgarizzato è la sensazione che tutto sia comprensibile e chiaro. Esso ricorda un sistema di ponti gettati su dei precipizi, che possono così essere baldanzosamente attraversati con l’illusione che non ci siano. Ma il fatto che non sia ammesso guardare nei precipizi non significa purtroppo che non esistano." (p. 236)
.
There is a pervasive cynicism through the book that gives the impression the author is throwing up his hands to history and the very worst of human nature as unchangeable and just accepts it as if unable to shake the dialects that he was immured in through communism in Eastern Europe.
Still a good and timely read, it won't help you solve any of today's problems, it's too rife with cynicism and European high brow toward America, along with rambling of people who the saw the worst of the worst of humanity and can't see any alternative.
The context in which I read this book was exceptionally perfect.
Ok great!
The philosophical and academic tone of the book means that each page demands full attention, and much time for reflection...
Extra great!
The thorough exploration of outward and inward beliefs and ideals in the context of a society that overtly defines intellectual ideals and demands strict obedience to them by an entire populace was an important task, and one I am grateful to Milosz for undertaking.
I'd love to give this book a second read, and I'm sure I'll glean even more understanding the second time around.
Many people will spend their entire lives collecting stamps or old coins, or growing tulips.
I am sure that Zeus will be merciful toward people who have given themselves entirely to these hobbies, even though they are only amusing and pointless diversions.
I shall say to him: 'It is not my fault that you made me a poet, and that you gave me the gift of seeing simultaneously what was happening in Omaha and Prague, in the Baltic states and on the shores of the Arctic Ocean.
Forgive me.' And perhaps Zeus, who does not call stamp-collectors and tulip-growers silly, will forgive."
He also explains that a post-war Europe struggling to come to terms with society's fragility and a realization of the relativity of a society's values and judgments also opened some minds to Communism.Many pages are devoted to the role of a writer under totalitarian rule and the sacrifices he must make including the need to abandon passionate writing that reflects a personal vision and the pursuit of truth, for a purely cerebral (dead) writing that guarantees one work and livelihood.Most interesting to me, is the book’s comparison of Marxism and Christianity and how they are at odds.
Milosz is a poet foremost, and that's the angle I come at when approaching this work.
The central event he keeps returning to, which I believe nicely personifies the struggles which interest Milosz, is that of the revolt of Warsaw; with the oppressive Nazi rule on one hand, and the Soviet advance just across the river, the youth of Warsaw attempted to grab their city back from German occupation so they could keep their city when the Russians came.
The confessional invective and narrative elements make this place him more in the role of the singer of experience, the traveler come to tell you his story.
It's particularly relevant today, when the political divide grows in the very country that Miłosz described such a phenomenon over 70 years ago: the rise in power of certain factions and the alleged worth of loyalty, so recently discussed, with reference to today, in an article by Anne Applebaum entitled "Polarization in Poland: A Warning from Europe." In the article, Applebaum, author of such books as Iron Curtain and Gulag, talks about how political polarization comes around in a cycle, and The Captive Mind offers a glimpse into how this cycle may be playing itself out.Another point that Miłosz makes also feels relevant in our world in which we have to adjust to a smug rejection of established rules:The man of the East cannot take Americans seriously because they have never undergone the experiences that teach men how relative their judgments and thinking habits are.
While trying to read this unreadable collection of essays on communism or life in Poland after WWII in the evening did not help any, I did find this book completely confusing, over my head, and impossible to attempt to read any further. I'm not sure if this is supposed to be about politics or philosophy or a combination of the two but it is certainly not for me. Decided to stop torturing myself after reading nearly the first 60 pages.
"Oma kirjanikest sõprade elulugusid visandades ei ütle ta kordagi, et need tegid ideoloogilise vea. Nõukogude võimu rüpes ei tehta vigu, sest viga eeldab valikut. Miloszi kättemaks on rängem, sest ta näitab, leebelt ja irooniliselt: leninistlik–stalinistlikus kultuuriruumis käite te, sõbrad, kõik alla, igatahes ja nagunii" - J. Undusk
