https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2256063.The_Bobbsey_Twins_at_the_County_Fair
A very cute story. However, if I were Mrs. Bobbsey, I would put Freddy and Flossy on a leash.
Growing up in the '50's, I owned and read the first 40 of the Bobbsey Twins. These are the books that first hooked me on reading. These old editions are terribly racist, but there are new ones that have eliminated that problem. But for this reason, I am not rating the series.
I have a hard time saying I thoroughly disliked a book.
And last night I did some research on the history of the Bobbsey Twins books, which was interesting, to me at the very least.But At the County Fair was incredibly dated and hard to believe at so many points.
But worse was the completely lackadaisical parenting of Mr and Mrs Bobbsey themselves.
When little Freddie takes a ride on a race horse, there are no consequences.
But even my girls laughed when little Flossie says "Hark", as she hears something.
Who says Hark?
I have been making my way through the Bobbsey Twins books as an adult; we had only one in the house when I was growing up (The Bobbsey Twins Or, Merry Days Indoors and Out), which I read over and over again.Of course, these books seem dreadfully dated to me now, but nevertheless I enjoy reading about the antics of the four Bobbsey children.
i thought twilight was one of the worst american language books published. now i know who meyer learned her insipid prose style from.i read one chapter of twilight,and only one page of the bobbsey twins. my head hurts.(to be fair to the book i gave it to both my mother and aunt to read, they liked the series when they read them as children before the war. they about choked from embarrassment for having liked them having read a few pages now)
I read every Bobbsey Twins adventures I could get my hands on from the age of 9 through 11. Summers were wonderful and I could borrow from the library and read these books. I could borrow 8 books every 2 weeks. Soon, I needed more than that and had to fight the librarian for more books. Now, I can do 8 books in a day. Sigh.
I have finally now read all the public domain books in this series I could find. I will say the writing was horrific in the middle and got downright decent in the last few.
