https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28251.The_High_Lord
This last book in the trilogy is the best by far.
I'd recommend reading the trilogy together and in order, which is probably something normal people would do anyway.
Normally I advocate reading books haphazardly and maniaclly, but really, these could be just one big long novel if people were willing to carry around a 1000 page book.
The character development across all three books is compelling and I found myself more invested in the characters and the outcome than I thought I would be.
I approve of the romantic storylines, too, which weren't superfluous or ham-handed or smutty.
Though I'm not turning up my nose at ham-handed smut.
Actual Rating 4.5I just could not stop read this one until it was finished. I was like this from start to finish: So much has happen and I can't even write anything remotely coherent. I ned time to process this then I'll come back and try to give a proper review.
If you're looking for something long and epic, look somewhere else, but if you want something to take up a boring weekend or something, I think these books would do it nicely.The action itself definitely had me on edge.
Simple doesn't mean bad, though -- they were easy to like (or dislike, in Regin's case), and I got very fond of Sonea, Cery, Dannyl and Rothen in particular.The relationships were...
I enjoyed that aspect of the books quite a lot, actually, and while the relationship doesn't serve any particular plot purpose, I think it justifies its own existence as much as a het couple would.
This, this piece of poorly plotted abomination ruined it, it's almost as if when she was writing it Canavan just thought; "Actually, do you know what?
Screw all the plot and tension.
I've decided to write the ending to a very bad piece fan fiction and then stick it on the end of the book!"Not to mention that she kills of a character she forces too much attention on anyway and then her protagonist, who's names escapes me, is distraught for all of 5 pages and then she is magically fine again and I'm just sat here like where the hell did your sanity go Canavan, it was a massive let down and it wasn't even the whole book, it wasn't that bad, but the last 5 chapter just held with rapid decline, I'm pretty sure there were good bits too but I don't remember them because I was/am more freaked out by the ending xD
About two years ago I bought the whole series so I could finally finish it.
But, to be honest, my biggest motivation was the gay couple that I shipped without end.However, when I picked this book up back then it didn't really grip me and I lost interest in it around the 150 page mark.
I'm not really sure what made me decide to pick this up again last week but I just really wanted to finish this series.
Neither plot nor characters really intruiged me much to be honest, and the big epic finale fell flat.
Then, a bunch of storylines were left untied.And the absolute worst of all, for which Trudi Canavan should get repeatedly hit in the back of the neck with a book by Professor Snape, is that of all the couples she wrote that were constantly having sex and making out and talking about how much they loved each other, the gay one was the only one who didn't.Yes, you heard me right.
No. Even in the safety of their own heads, they still refer to each other as "friends".Fuck you, Trudi Canavan.
It took a day to read each book, and every day I was more and more interested on the fates of Sonea, Rothen, Dannyl, Cery, and eventually, even perhaps more than the rest, Akkarin.
I cannot wait to read more books by Trudi Canavan, because I'm sure that I'll meet sympathetic characters and interesting settings that will enthrall me beyond the scope of the plot, and that will probably make me sad to abandon again.
Like Sonea, I know I don't regret loving this series and its characters, even if their departure has saddened me.
I enjoyed these books up until the end which ruined the whole thing for me.
Well... I finished this book a few hours ago and I still have no words. This book was a ride. I LOVED the beginning, I was so immersed in the story. I loved it to pieces. But the ending. WHY?! I hate those endings, I mean, there was no need. Everything was so great already. Why!!!??? But, well, it was a great book. I have to say, although, that I am now a little bit hesitant to pick Trudi Canavan's other trilogy.
I really disliked the dramatic shift in Akkarin's character that took place in this book.
Maybe I would have accepted it more easily if there had been a little more foreshadowing and ambiguity in previous novels or if there was a bit more ambiguity in this one, but Sonea and Loreln especially seemed too willing to forgive and forget.One thing that truly disturbed me was Sonea's (view spoiler)[ relationship with Akkarin.
Let's see how we feel in a few months or a couple of years." (hide spoiler)].
Al mismo tiempo nos reencontramos con Cery (¡Lo había extrañado mucho en el libro anterior!) ahora convertido en un jefe ladrón que ayuda al Gran Lord y traba relación con una misteriosa Sachakana, Savara.
Cuando comienza finalmente la invasión el ritmo de la historia se vuelve vertiginoso, todos y cada uno de los personajes que han aparecido hasta ahora tienen un papel crucial en el final, que decidirá la supervivencia o no del Gremio de los magos.No se puede decir que esta saga haya tenido romance, de hecho, en los libros anteriores es un tema mostrado a cuenta gotas (El amor infantil de Cery por Sonea y el interés de Dorrien por la aprendiz de su padre), así que me sorprendió bastante que en éste libro esto sea tocado casi con naturalidad.
I really enjoyed this close to the series. It has great characterisation and world-building, and the pacing throughout is brilliant.
But in this book,she's extremely eager to take hard decisions for what is right.And she was like...And I was like...I simply wish we had more of Rothen's narration.
Sonea grew on me on this book,but Rothen is still my favorite character.
Like Trudi said herself,I'm never going to forget the ending of this book since (view spoiler)[ Akkarin died in a way that was so frustrating and simple it could define any war.
They were both casualties from war  (hide spoiler)]The ending left a few questions,but i intend to read the sequel series by Trudi Canavan.
One thing I found in this book is that with me skimming a lot of the text it was quite noticeable that the author doesn't have a sense of urgency and spends a lot of time describing possible outcomes for various characters actions as supposed to letting them get on with something and describe events.
It really slowed and bogged things down for me.So whilst this third book was slightly better than the previous two I won't read anymore by this author, she's just not my cup of tea.
It's been quite some time since I read this one. To be honest, the ending simply ruined it for me. Otherwise, it would have gotten 2 stars at least, but I never really connected even with the "good" parts, and then it whammed me with a mega-depressing finale. Because the rest of it was so blah, I was counting on a grand finish to pull it through and make it worthwhile, so that ending really, really let me down. I also was just not interested in the plots going on parallel to Sonea's, in particular, her childhood friend. Mediocre series.
What I think about each of the three books: 1) "The Guild": almost half of the book is spent relating the tentatives of Sonea, supported by a friend and the Thieves, to conceal herself from the Guild magicians: I think it is a waste of time and energy, because every reader undestands since a few pages that she's going to be captured and instructed from the Guild (it is impossible not to undestand it: the story is related also from some "good" magicians point of view an it would be of no use describing and introducing us with these magicians if they weren't going to be important characters in the rest of the book).
I was disappointed at the end of the book.
When I read the story it should have a life on it's own.
I enjoyed the whole trilogy greatly, I read the whole thing in three days and at the end I just couldn't believe...
I was aware of it before I started reading books and for first two I could not find any explanation for what was supposed to happen.
I don't like when authors overuse Stockholm syndrome.
(view spoiler)[Okay okay, I admit, I'm bitter cause he died, I didn't want him to die.
I wanted to see what they would do with them.
That ending was so unsatisfying for me 😭
http://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com.es/...
"So, Hem, tell me why I shouldn't see how many holes I need to make before you start leaking money?"The part I was eagerly waiting to read (but also dreading, because, well, things happen) turned out to be barely a page long, with not enough detail? That's not how I remembered it. It was over way too fast.On the other hand, I love the characters in this series.
Trudi Canavan is a fantastic author and this is my favourite series because of the story, how she writes the characters, but mostly it has a certain spark.
I also like how much Sonea has grown as a character throughout the series and how she puts others before herself even those she does not like.
I really like how action packed the book gets at the end and how involved I got and how understandable the motives of the baddies are (even though I don’t agree with them).(view spoiler)[ However my favourite character is Akkarin because who knew a author could change how much I felt about a character in just one book!
Yay for dragging the plot like molasses in retarded directions before introducing the Great Danger in the last 1/6 of the allotted space!
We learn about the impending doom only in this book and it takes half of it to actually get to the point.
There are some plot devices here that made me consider giving this book 2 stars, but the immense flatness of the characters did it for me.
None of them behave like real people.
(I'm not counting the dumb clones and canon fodder.) The ending wasn't worse than the entire book: it fit, at least.
Un final de trilogía impactante, emocionante pero sobre todo imprevisto. Nadie diría al final del Gremio de los Magos que la historia de Sonea iba a acabar de esta manera. De esta manera genial. La verdad es que es uno de los finales que más me ha gustado y es que esta saga no ha hecho más que ir en ascenso, desde el primer libro hasta el último. Merece la pena darle una oportunidad.
¿Es que a la autora le entró el demonio George R R Martin al cuerpo?
de George R R Martin, no vas y matas al héroe (de un majísimo estilo Batman) de la historia.
Entiendo que con todo ese trepidante e inesperado desarrollo e igual de inesperado romance en ciernes resultaba hermosamente trágico matar al héroe, lo entiendo, de cierto modo tiene su belleza que me hayan destruido el corazón con ese final...
Stand: 2010Ich fand das Buch genauso gut wie den ersten und den zweiten Teil.
Nicht schlechter, aber auch nicht (wie ich eigentlich gedacht hätte) besser.
Nicht dass es nicht gut geschrieben wäre, aber es sind einfach diese Lückenfüllerszenen, die mich ab und an gestört haben.So ab der Mitte des Buches geht es dann aber los.
Beide Charaktere sind sympathisch, haben aber doch auch ihre Ecken und Kanten.
und vielleicht auch, weil ich schon da ahnte wie das Buch ausgehen würde.Womit wir beim Finale des Buches wären.
Ich fand das Ende sehr gut geschrieben und zum Buch passend.
It is a good series but in this book I personally thought Sonea and Akkarin's romantic interest to be cliché.
I felt it would have been more prudent for Akkarin to be strong, refusing any romantic involvement - resulting in an unrequited/forbidden type love senario.
Of course then there wouldn't be a baby to carry the series on, but I think a baby could've come into it a different way - she could've named him after Akkarin or something bittersweet.
So overall I felt the clichés let the book down somewhat, otherwise I thought it was enjoyable.
This book is one of my all-time favorites, and that's in spite of (view spoiler)[the devastating ending (which I wish Canavan would re-write!).
Maybe it needed to end this way for some purpose to be revealed in the follow-up Traitor Spy series.
And although it haunts me, I will read this again.I almost prefer the Age of the Five series because it has a happier ending (I highly recommend that one as well), but this trilogy taken as a whole is just fantastic.
I'm really excited to read the Traitor Spy Trilogy (waiting for all 3 books to be out before I start).
RATING:Ever since Sonea became Akkarin’s novice, somehow her life in the Guild gets a littler better, if only she can forget what she witnessed in the High Lord’s underground room.
Unlike the second book, there isn’t a single character that isn’t well-constructed.The author successfully constructed all the plot points that I think she liked to present.
And the fact that I’ve given this one a high rating, means I willed myself to forget that minor thing.It was outstanding how the author used some of the settings in the advantage of the plot.
It's a long time since I read a good-sized book straight through in less than 24 hours!
The fact that this book falls into that category was quite a surprise, I hadn't expected it to be so deeply engaging.
The first two books were good but in my opinion this is the best of the trilogy.
(I do hope that one day the star system will be increased to allow for books like this, which fall somewhere between excellent and amazing, to be given more accurate acclaim).
*3,5 stars*
