https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1707528.Mr_Pim_Passes_By
I love to walk/stroll down the aisles at my library looking for "old" books.
Older books have old fashioned, cellophane covers on them with pretty designs or no covers at all.
Their catalog number is written in a white pen as opposed to the typed labels.
Written by the same author who penned "Winnie the Pooh" in 1926, A.
A. Miline, this book, "Mr. Pim Passes By", written in 1919, was originally a play, then a book, later a movie.
Definitely had me laughing out loud!
Five BIG ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ read for anyone/everyone who needs a good laugh and a smile!
79. MR. PIM PASSES BY. (1922). A. A. Milne. ****. Alan Alexander Milne (1882-1958) is best known for his “Winnie-the-Pooh” books, but he did write lots of other things, including this amusing play. It’s a tongue-in-cheek drama based on a simple mistake made by a simple man – Mr. Pim. We are introduced to Lord & Lady Mardon, whose house is the set for the entire play. As the play opens, the maid announces a Mr. Pim. He is received by Dinah, the 19-year-old niece and ward of Lord Mardon. Mr. P
We are introduced to Lord & Lady Mardon, whose house is the set for the entire play.
Mr. Pim – at best a little scatter-brained – tells Dinah that in fact he had met a Mr. Telworthy on the ship from Sydney and had struck up a conversation with him.
When Olivia learns about Mr. Pim, and her story about Mr. Telworthy, she realizes that The Times report of his death was wrong, and that she wasn’t a widow, and, in fact, that she and Lord Mardon had been living “in sin” for the past five years.
http://www.gutenberg.org/files/7310/7...
This book made me really, really miss my high-school drama days. I want to put on a play. We can do this one! It has the most comprehensive stage directions I've ever seen, and the characters are utterly endearing. Who's with me?
It has been a long time since I've read many plays, but I picked this up because it was written by Milne, better known for his Winnie the Pooh stories. It was somewhat amusing; I could picture Castle Craig Players putting it on. I think it was written about 1920.
Charming little book.
Wonderfully witty, good story with some depth.
Silly. Not wild about comedy that relies on people manipulating each other passive aggressively for its humor. I can see where it was probably a typical drawing-room comedy of its time though.
A very entertaining play. It's easy to imagine it played out on stage and the plot is rather surprising. I would certainly recommend reading it as I enjoyed it very much.
Love comedy and MilnesThe comedy in three acts was brilliant, a story in fun yet could happen in reality even in our times.
Wow.Why is this play not performed as much? Such good dialogue, such a good plot (goes from comic to tragic to marriage resolution.
I really enjoyed reading this play, as it made me smile and feel fuzzy just by virtue of it being so British. I could easily imagine the characters and the dialogue was very well-written.
A family of credulous idiots believe the random anecdote of a perfect stranger without bothering to check the truth of it. Kerfuffle ensues. I expect the whole is meant to come across as farcical and frothy but in many places it's just silly. There is an underlying cleverness, however, and that's dragging it up from one star for me, but mostly I was just glad it was over quickly.
