https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23153154-memory-man
What is extremely impressive about this book is how David Baldacci has managed to convince thousands of readers that this kind of shit is not only good, but something shiny and new.First of all, Amos Decker is a *gasp* "memory man", meaning that an injury gave him the ability to never forget ANYTHING!
For example, Decker is supposed to be the absolute best at his job because of his memory, and yet rather than being wowed by him, I got the impression that everyone else in the book was dumbed down to make him look better.
I mean EVERYTHING!Memory Man begins with Decker, then a detective, stumbling upon the brutal, senseless murder of his brother-in-law, wife, and daughter.
Like Monk says, it's a gift and it's a curse.Yes, Amos Decker is interesting but not interesting enough to ignore that the other characters in this novel, besides the maniac on the loose, are totally forgettable.
I would definitely read more by David Baldacci but I need more from his characters in the next Amos Decker novels.
Classic Baldacci and a wonderful start to the Decker series. On to the next book.
Even though I had a hard time getting into the story initially, this book really kept me guessing.
There was a lot of excitement packed into this story.Amos Decker is an incredibly interesting character.
Amos's ability to remember every detail and every moment helps him solve crimes in a way the other detectives cannot.
Amos is able to help connect the pieces of the puzzle together as the story takes one twist after another.I think that this book did a lot of things really well.
I like to try to figure out how the pieces fall together every time I read a mystery.
My first ever David Baldacci book and what a good one it was!
The main character who is an ex cop is made extra interesting in that he is a savant and has the ability to remember everything.
This of course is a great asset in a murder enquiry and by the end of the book our ex cop is looking forward to much greater things.
This is marked as book one in a new series and I look forward to reading the next one.
I also intend to make time to read a lot more of this author's books.
Whew…this was pretty intense!!Memory Man is the 1st book in David Baldacci’s new thriller series and introduces one of the most offbeat characters, Amos Decker, whose injuries suffered in a football game ended not only his career but also resulted in him developing hyperthymesia and synesthesia disorders, which gives him the ability to see time as pictures, able to count in colors and to forget nothing in his head.Coping with these abilities as best he can, his life is shattered when his wife and young child are brutally murded for no apparent reason.
I'm loving a good thriller these days. With so many thrillers out there I'm spoils for choice. This was definitely one of the best I've read yet. This had me gripped from the start. The main character, Amos, is unique in the fact that he can remember everything. You'd think that detective work would be easy with this but it is still challenging for him. Memorable side characters, strong plot and excellent writing. I will be reading more Baldacci very soon.
I actually went ahead and put the rest of the series and also the Will Robie series on hold at my library to pick up tomorrow.
I could not predict the way this book would unfold, which I love in mysteries.
Amos Decker is an intriguing character with a great supporting cast.
I hope this series continues to be as interesting as this first book.
So cannot wait to go get to the library to get the other books and another Baldacci series!My quick and simple overall: loved this book.
It was intriguing and not predictable like so many other mysteries and thrillers.
As a young man, Amos Decker suffered a colossal blow to the head when playing gridiron; he died; he was resuscitated; his brain rewired itself so that not only does it remember everything, it can replay memories for Amos to re-experience, whether he wants to or not.Years later, he’s a cop with a wife and daughter who are brutally slaughtered along with his brother-in-law (mistaken identity)?
Wow!!! Amos Decker is the man!! Riveting from beginning to end. I must move on to the next book in this series.
Reads like it was thrown together over a long weekend and phoned-in with stretched out scenes and cartoon-like characters jumping the literary shark in a "been there, done that" serial killer hunt. I liked the authors' last book "The Escape" very much but this book #1 of a new series read like it was written by someone else entirely.
I opted to start this book without first reading the premise so I won't summarize it here.
Amos Decker, a man who has an unfailing memory, is assisting the investigation and all you can do as a reader is follow along and try to keep up.
I'm definitely signing up for the next book in this series.Two narrators were used to handle all characters, separated by gender.
Here the narrators switched whenever their characters had dialogue.
It made it feel like a live performance.I really enjoyed this story, the mystery, suspense and Amos Decker.
The audio performance, though different, enhanced my reading experience.
kick-off, and it fell short (if only a tad).The hero of the series is a big guy named Amos Decker, a former police detective and football star in Burlington.
Accompanying all this is the loss of much of his ability to connect emotionally with other people.Those rare abilities may seem like a good thing - and they certainly can be helpful to a police detective - but for the most part they're a liability because there's no way to get the memories out of his head (seeing them in living color as well does nothing to improve the situation).

Our hero (Amos Decker) is a man who can forget nothing...really, absolutely nothing.
Then he simply collapsed losing everything and becoming homeless after leaving the police department.We will follow Amos through the twists and turns of his life as the unsolved crime of his family's deaths turns out to be tied in with a recent horrific crime.Amos is an excellent character and I hope we see Mr. Baldacci write more about the character.
Like the TV characters Monk or Robert Goren we have a man who doesn't function with the mass of humanity as "expected".
I like it, recommended.
The tale features Amos Decker, who got brain damage as a football and suffers a rare condition that makes it impossible for him to forget any experience.
Working with his old partner, Decker soon learns that the new murders are connected to that of his family and for some reason he is being targeted in multiple ways.The characters are great, the pacing and surprises are well orchestrated, and the puzzles Decker solves are satisfying to experience.
His condition is a bit of a gimmick and the scheme behind the school shooting and the twistedness of his foe are a bit implausible, but I was more than willing to take the ride through all the surprising turns in this tale.
As the story opens Detective Mary Lancester, Decker's old partner, tells him a homeless man named Sebastian Leopold has confessed to murdering Decker's family.
The homeless man, who appears to have mental problems, claims he killed Decker's family because the detective dissed him at a 7-Eleven.
Just when Decker is sneaking into the jail to speak to Leopold a mass shooting occurs at local Mansfield High School, killing a number of staff and students.
Because he was an excellent detective Decker is asked to consult with authorities on the Mansfield High School murders.
And with a mind like Mr. Baldacci’s and using this book as an example, the plotting and mysteries would be mind-boggling.Added comment ----> This is the start of a new series.As trite as this is going to sound, this book had me riveted from the very first chapter and glued to my chair for the rest of the book.
His family is murdered and he can’t forget it.
Until someone comes forward and confesses to the murder of his family.
Countless clues are available to him but to connect them, he must use his DVR of a mind to connect the dots, solve the puzzle and follow the leads.
Wow, interesting, and mind blowing crime mystery with clues that I would have never guessed.
Now if I can just get used to the name Amos Decker, I’ll fall in love with him just like I did with the Will Trent series by Karin Slaughter.
Exceptional, creative, mind blowing, creepy, sick and awesome!!
Memory Man is the best serial killer mystery I have read after Silence of the Lambs, with which it shares common elements It has an excellent plot whose resolution I could not figure out until the end of the book. I was totally riveted till the end.
Mary Lancaster is the dumbest police partner for Amos Decker Baldacci could've ever created. I'm half way through the book and Mary Lancaster did not utter a single one coherent sentence. She just sits there hopelessly in the background of the story and ask idiotic questions! Someone please give her one spare brain cell! I hope she dies soon or gets fired or something. Story overall is good but someone's got to go. Me or Mary? The answer is no brainer(!)
MEMORY MAN  a flawed offbeat hero-Amos Decker, drawing you into his world of tragedy, loss, and complexity for hours of mind-blowing intensity.
As he stares at his muzzle ready to end his life, to die, and join his family; however, for some reason unknown even to him, Amos Decker does not pull the trigger and calls 911.
Amos Decker’s life changed forever—twice.From that moment,  Decker's brain shifted and he lost the ability to forget.
Three years later, Decker discovers a man has turned himself in to the police and confesses to the murders, and he comes up with a brilliant plan.
The premise of the novel is a mental condition called hyperthymesia which relates to near-perfect recall of one’s personal or autobiographical past.
The hero of the novel can not forget anything and it plays in his head like a DVR no matter how old the memory is.
I’m not talking about memory techniques where you can teach yourself to remember things better, like the order of a pack of cards using association tricks.
But I apparently use more of it than most, but only because I got my ass handed to me on a football field.” “And synesthesia?”“I see colors where others don’t.
Trying to solve a very complex, well thought out mass murder makes it even better.
If the book had been half the length, I would have given it at least another star, but I doubt I could go to 4 stars because there were too many places where the plot seemed convenient, not as well thought out as they should have been.
I gave one of his books 3 stars, another I quit reading, & now this is getting 2 stars.
I'll have to try one of his older standalones to really decide, but I don't think his writing is for me.
The first criterion for a 5***** rating is whether I wanted to keep reading; I really wanted to keep reading this one.
The 2nd is whether I cared about the main character, which I did, despite his many serious flaws.
Amos Decker is fascinating, and several other characters were also quite interesting.
The plot line is a little stretched, but generally holds up, with some surprises along the way.
The main strength of the book, however, is how Baldacci portrays what goes on inside Decker's seriously disturbed brain.
Some reviewers objected to the repetition but I thought that was one of the main strengths of the book.
This book s far better than the others I have read by this author. It gripped me throughout. I had difficulty putting it down. Amos Decker is a great character, and the atmosphere,plot, and pace was exactly what I look for in a book. This is the best book I have read in a long time.
Great ReadDavid Baldacci is a great story teller. His characters are always interesting. This was a great story despite Amos Decker losing his family. I'm looking forward to reading the next book in this series.
This book was a 'hot mess', to put it lightly!
I've read Baldacci before, and know how talented the guy can write.
I really wanted to like this series, but this first book was a game stopper for me...yikes!The protagonist is an overweight ex-football player, who's career was cut short after a devastating injury in the field, that led to cardiac arrest and 're-wiring' of his brain.
The protagonists then becomes an investigator, but wait ...his entire family is killed in the opening scene of the book, and this sets the unstoppable snowball of badness that adds to the book's mediocrity!
A man's confession to the murders gives Decker some hope of closure, however faint, while the rest of the force handles a school shooting.
Issues with the confession leave Decker wondering if there are others behind the murders, using this man as a pawn.
A powerful new thriller series that tackles neurological issues and medical anomalies, Baldacci finds new ways to refresh his writing and keep readers wanting more.Baldacci has had a productive career, penning numerous thrillers which have climbed the bestseller lists around the world.
With the introduction of another series, readers can look forward to some fresh ideas and angles of approaching similar cases.
What a disappointment.
I have read most of his books...this one was a big disappointment!
His wife and family are brutally murdered and Amos falls apart...until someone shows up at the police station 16 months later to claim responsibility for their deaths.The story has promise, but ended in a clustered mess.
He ends up taking responsibility for the brutal murder of his family because he used a "trigger" word?!!!!!
If you want an honest thriller that isn't a pandering mess?
Read Brad Thor.
This one isn't worth your time.
