https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42156.Something_Borrowed
The two main characters are completely unlikable, one for being completely self-absorbed and selfish, and the other for being so spineless and whiny.
So spineless, in fact, that the action of her sleeping with her friend's fiancé wasn't even a credible one.
I also found it very difficult to believe that at 30, the two characters would continue to be friends.
This lack of credibility was the biggest crack in an already weak foundation for the book.
My biggest problem was the overall message seemed to be that as long as your best friend is a bitch, it's okay to sleep with her fiancé.
Plus, in order to make the cheating something "okay," a lot of energy is put into making Darcy really off-putting and Rachel really kind of pathetic.
I liked Hilary and Ethan a lot (though in all other chick lit books Ethan would have been either gay or the guy Rachel actually ended up with), but the central relationships just left me cold.
Who knew I was so morally inflexible?I'd like to read one of her other books, because I did enjoy the writing and her handle on some of the main things I look for in chick lit -- fast-track career, portrait of the city, circle of friends, consumerism, etc.
Every time I read a new page from this book, my soul died a little more. Cheating is not okay. It should not be normalized.
Rachel is part-Miranada - a not so good looking lawyer, and part-Charolette - miss goody two shoes who wants to find a husband and settle down.
Darcy is part-Samantha, part-Carrie, she has good looks and has always managed to make the guy she liked fall for her and is now engaged to a guy she wants to marry.
Darcy is self-centered and insensitive and has been running all over Rachel forever.
Rachel has an inferiority complex and is jealous of her so-called best friend's charmed life....to them a good life being defined by the number of boyfriends they have had.
Well, this was my first, and now probably last, foray into "chick-lit." I found the characters to be totally unbelieveable.
A "consummate good-girl" would never have an affair with her best friend's fiancee, despite Darcy's shortcomings as a friend.
Some feel Rachel's behavior was justified because of Darcy's litany of slights, pulled from as far back as 5th grade.
However that Rachel remained Darcy's friend in spite of her bitchiness, just proves Rachel's own weakness of character.
And it was totally contra to her so-called good-girl persona.
Far from being a modern heroine, I found Rachel weak, immoral, flat, and lifeless; totally not a person to root for.
You know EXACTLY what's going to happen from the first lines of the first chapter (which i guess can be nice since it makes you feel smart and gives a general sense of superiority); the characters are predictable, with a "heroine" that's just likable enough to continue reading but who you generally dislike/never fully sympathize with; it's pretty much something to read when you don't want to have to think.
I guess when it comes down to it I'd rather watch garbage tv than read a garbage book.
The story focuses on two lifelong best friends, Rachel and Darcy.
The first installment is told from Rachel's perspective; the second book is told from Darcy's perspective.
Darcy is the exact opposite - she is the outgoing, popular, pretty girl who is engaged to Dex. As the story unfolds, we learn that Rachel has known Dex since law school and has been in love with him for quite some time.
And as luck would have it, Dex confesses his feelings for Rachel even though he is engaged to Darcy.
Rachel does suffer some immense feelings of guilt, but also learns a lot about herself, her history, and her friendship with Darcy.
I know it is a little controversial: some people adore Rachel for 'stealing' her best friend Darcy's fiance.
Sometimes I really like Darcy for being so perfect.
it is hard for an author to create a character that is not so adorable but real and nice to read.
Only he never decides whether he wants Rachel or Darcy until the very end.Rachel herself is not a character I sympathize with.
It is actually quite annoying to know that everything that happens to her is not all Darcy's selfish fault.
It is her fault too, for not defending herself.However, I like the book!
What I wanted from that opening scene was not memories of Rachel and Darcy as kids.
I wanted to be pulled into the scene and believe the sequence of events that ended with a girl in bed with her best friend's fiancee.
Darcy was supposed to be the volatile unknown, but I almost think Dex was more of one.In the end, I don't think the story is as much about the love triangle as it is about friendship.
The complexity of childhood-turned-adult friendship was very well done and I even though I wanted to strangle Darcy, I could see why Rachel had remained friends with her.
Oh, so this is how it sounds inside the heads of people who can rationalize anything.
Yes, Darcy was a self-centered friend.
If you don't like the way she treats you...stop returning her calls!
Carrying on an affair for months before Darcy and Dex's wedding?
Why didn't Dex just call off the wedding as soon as he knew it wasn't just a drunken one night stand?
How could he continue to live with Darcy, and see her best friend on the side?!
I honestly thought Rachael would have been better off without him, but at the same time I kind of thought that they deserved each other.Maybe I wasn't supposed to like them?
Maybe the point of the story was that nobody is perfect?
You guys. I had EXTREMELY low expectations for this book and it totally blew me away. I've been avoiding this series for years because I thought it was just gonna be some lame ass, cheesy chick-lit, but MAN. I reeeeaaaaally liked this. Getting the next book from my library tonight because I *NEED* it.
You WANT to hate the main character - I mean, she's not only hooking up with an engaged man, but it's her best friend's fiance - but, Griffin did an amazing job of making Rachel someone you rooted for. So, congrats on that!This was a great beach read. Quick and quirky.
And you can't help but to feel for the main girl.
But that doesn't mean that she's completely cruel and doesn't deserve the other girl's friendship.
But she figured her friend was more appropriate for him and matched them together.I could relate to the girl and how she felt.
Lots of girls know how it is to feel like the underdog.
But sometimes you can't fix things 20 years later when the real trouble started 20 years ago.I really recommend this book to anyone who likes chick lit with real heart.
LOVE this book.
Read it twice because I loved it so much.
How could you not love Rachel?
I was able to relate to her when I thought I was going to hate her.
This made me tear up and laugh and wish I was friends with Rachel (even with her flaw).
You won't be able to stop reading it and then won't be able to stop talking about it (like me).
Then I will be able to welcome you to the Emily Giffin fan club (this book made me want to read her others).
Since then I've realized that unless you read the books they send you you're probably not going to win another giveaway.
I was probably going to read this someday, mostly just because GR gave it to me to read, but not anymore.So I've got this free book that I'll NEVER read, even though I was going to give it a fair shot.
I don't expect this to count as "reviewing" this book just so I could maybe start winning giveaways, but that doesn't mean I still didn't have something to say.
★Something Borrowed is the first installment in Emily Giffin's chick-lit series titled: Darcy & Rachel. I have just discovered Ms. Giffin, and while I loved the first book I read that was written by her, I have to admit, I didn't love this one so much. The writing style remains fun and light, but I hated the characters. I guess I just hated that the main characters' romance was based on such deceit and yet it ended in a HEA. That is a pet peeve of mine in novels and it always leaves a sour t
★½Something Borrowed is the first installment in Emily Giffin's chick-lit series titled: Darcy & Rachel.
I have just discovered Ms. Giffin, and while I loved the first book I read that was written by her, I have to admit, I didn't love this one so much.
The writing style remains fun and light, but I hated the characters.
I guess I just hated that the main characters' romance was based on such deceit and yet it ended in a HEA.
If this had been the first Emily Giffin book I read, I may very well have not read any others.
I honestly don't recall reading this book and I am kind of horrified that I ever bought it in the first place."Something Borrowed" I think takes way too much pangs to absolve the main character in this one (Rachel) from the guilt she rightfully should feel about having a one night stand with her best friend's (Darcy) fiancee.
I think the big issue for me is that Rachel cheats with her best friend's fiancee.
This is not my first foray into Griffin's books, but it's really boring reading about someone justifying cheating with a guy who is engaged to their best friend.
I also never had a true sense of attraction noted between Darcy and Dex or Dex and Rachel other than some of the intimate moments between the latter two (which, admittedly, were well written in spurts).By the end, there really any sense of satisfaction or justice for any of the characters except for a predictable ending, and even in that, one could argue that if that weren't the point, there's not a sense that the scheme of events had any realism to them - it played out like a forced soap opera.
Darcy "perfectly portrayed by Kate Hudson" is really interesting character, and her friendship with Rachel is complicated and remarkable.Then I wanted more, I find this book sample;Then I reached my twenties.
I'm not -At All- into reading Chick Lit, -but I just loved how d**k Darcy is :) !
Do u think it's suitable for male readers too, who..above thirty :(I realize thirty is just a number, that you're only as old as you feel and all of that.
I also realize that in the grand scheme of things, thirty is still young.
It is past the most ripe, prime child-bearing years, for example.
Rachel falls for her best friend's fiance during her 30th birthday party.
The fiance, Dex, returns Rachel's amorous feelings.
Rachel and Dex went to law school together and Rachel introduced Dex to her best friend.
Meanwhile, Darcy, the best friend, remains clueless and engrossed in wedding planning.
I understand that they did not want to hurt Darcy's feelings, but hooking up behind your best friend/fiancee's back is not the way to go about things--call off the wedding already!!
Darcy would probably have still been upset that her best friend stole her man, but it probably would have been less underhanded and painful for all involved.
The protagonist,Rachel,is a colorless, empty of any trace of personality sorry excuse of a woman and the best friend,Darcy, is a high-school movie bitch, meaning she's gorgeous, rich and selfish.
The base of the story is that Rachel sleeps with Darcy's fiance and then tries to find an excuse for herself saying that Darcy was always kind of a bitch to her, getting the same backpack with her in elementary school and looking better in a black bikini, and anyway she saw the guy first!
I always wanted to read this book and I had no idea there would be a movie about it (other way I would have read it sooner), now I feel like a total loser because I watched the movie accidentally as I had no idea it would be about this book!Loved it but I can't read this book now because I know what will happen.
I will be reading book 2 right away though because I just need to know what will happen to Darcy.
What a great movie !So hot!
Loved all the actors they chose to play the characters from this book.
Sorry, I think this is just not my kinda book. To me, it just seemed like a story about a crappy group of friends who did a shitload of crappy things to each other. I didn’t really like any of the characters except for Ethan and Hillary.On the plus side, the writing is engaging and I found it to be a quick and easy read.
They maintain an easy style, but they also pose serious questions along the line.The thing I like the most about Giffin is the tension and suspense she’s able to pour into her books (most of them).Something Borrowed is the story of two best friends Darcy and Rachel.
This book portrays the feelings so well that I wonder if Emily ever experienced it herself.I’ve read many reviews arguing the book is not good because you have cheating and friends betraying each other… Reading a book about complicated emotions and situations doesn’t mean you approve of them, otherwise we would never be able to read or watch anything.
Unlike a lot of "chick-lit", this one was semi-believable and I actually liked the main character (Rachel). She was a smart girl, not all obsessed with shopping and spending money...she just seemed like a normal person, someone I might hang out with. Darcy, on the other hand...irritated me SO bad (probably because the story was written from Rachel's point-of-view and you could see as the story went on how badly she was treated by Darcy). I liked that it got into the plot immediately, and it kept me interested. I'm looking forward to reading the sequel from Darcy's point-of-view soon!
2nd Reread - In theory, I shouldn't really like this book.
It's about a girl falling in love with her best friend's fiancé but as the book progresses you find out that the girls don't really have a healthy friendship, they're just holding onto a friendship that is way past its expiry date.
I feel like Emily Giffin uses that unhealthy relationship as a platform for the readers to be like "yes, Rachel steals Darcy's fiancé and that's bad BUT Darcy is a crap friend and so it's not THAT bad".
So I shouldn't like the book but I do.
Plus the book isn't bad.
This is a predictable read.
I probably would have liked it more when I was younger.
I have less patience for the characters behavior now.
It's a quick read.
Rachel lives in the shadow of her best friend Darcy and has a pretty weak personality so far.
She seems to resent her friend and yet, they both take each other for granted.
Rachel doesn't seem to have confidence in herself and reacts to situations instead of acting on what she wants.
Dex, Mr. Perfect, is also pretty weak.
Why didn't he ask Rachel out on a date when they were both single?
Loved the movie. This, not so much. Rachel annoyed me and I really just wanted to punch Dex's face (bearing in mind I wanted to do the exact opposite to the movie, Dex). I think I'll just stick to the movie. Everyone's happy that way ;)
I have mixed feelings about this one. I loved and hated Rachel. I had seen the movie first though, and the book surprised me, the good kind of surprise. It was a good book and the characters had more depth than the the characters in the movie (obviously). A good fluffy book. <3
