https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33426.Hyperspace
As Kaku has pointed out, fantasy fueled more great discoveries in science than pure science ever did on its own.
In this book he uses what we know about quantum physics to explore possibilities formerly relegated exclusively to science fiction.
He is merely asking us to consider what some great minds in both literature and physics have imagined, and in doing so, manages to make what we do know seem almost simple by showing us how much we truly don't know.
He's amazingly talented, imaginative, and best of all, he knows his math.
He also knows how to use that math to dream of what's possible.
This is the book that allowed me to fool an entire room of graduate students into thinking I was utterly Brilliant.
It is a really good crash course on just what the hell Quantum, String, Unified Field Theory ad Superstring actually are.
If we are thinking energy vibrating along a 10-dimensional string, what does that say about the frequency of sentience in the universe?
Since energy can't go anywhere and sentience is a factor of energy, what the hell really does happen to us when we die?Enjoy your trip down the rabbit hole.
There wasn't much holding it together, i.e. the book only follows the overthrow of each theory as its organizing structure.
Though I'm sure that Michio Kaku is quite knowledgable about the theories mentioned in the book (as evidenced by his other books) I expected this book to be more in story form like Flatterland and thus easier to read.
Overall, this book was just disappointing for me.
I expected it to be a fun and informative telling of the evolution of dimensional theories but ended up getting a book that was difficult to read and closer to a paper than novel.
5 stars for his lessons on physics, science, and mathematics. No stars for his musings on religion, god, and evolution.
It was OK just because the science fiction at the end was a lot of fun.Dr. Kaku alternates through two styles -- talking to the reader like they're completely stupid and then talking to them like they've taken a college physics class.
So long as we're just accepting things on faith, let me toss this one out there: God is a 5th dimensional being.But of course, it's sexy to act like you're smart -- and when someone like Dr. Kaku publishes a sexy bit of science fiction and calls it researched science, everyone's afraid to look like they don't "get it." It's like living in a Rand novel.
If you've thought science is dull or perhaps too far beyond you, then please meet Michio Kaku. He writes about theoretical physics in a way that will fill you with wonder and possibility. He takes what would otherwise be very complex concepts and conveys them using metaphors that every average joe can understand. The number of a-ha moments I had reading this book were too many to count. What a terrific read.
This is one of the popular science books that got me so interested in doing physics in the first place. Accessible to me before I even took a physics class, it should be accessible to most anyone with interest. Very interesting questions raised about space and time/parallel universes/etc. New ideas (as of date published: 1994) are discussed in a non-technical way. Also, very well written and easy to read (with humor and everything!).
Started strong. An introduction to non-Euclidian geometry, string theory, and related concepts. Made me fantasize about learning the math. Got more and more speculative toward the end, and not so interestingly so. Like many books, this one would have been improved by a ruthless editor. Still, worth a read if the topic interests you.
Un libro fantástico para descubrir una nueva perspectiva del universo.
Při čtení jeho knih si říkám, že kdyby profesoři na univerzitách měli aspoň polovinu jeho nadání popisovat složitou kvantovou fyziku tak, jako to dělá on, určitě bychom měli více inženýrů a třeba bych mezi ně patřila i já.
Kaku ve své starší knize s názvem Hyperprostor poutavě a zajímavě nastiňuje taková témata, jakými jsou světy vně prostoru a času, teorie superstrun, desátý rozměr, ale i černé díry, cestování časem a další osud vesmíru.
Neříkám, že je to čtení vždy jednoduché, ale když máte alespoň základní znalosti matematiky a fyziky, jeho vyprávění vám pomůže věci uvést do souvislostí, zasadit je do kontextu a následně porozumět i složitějším konstrukcím.
Michio Kaku makes some amazingly complex and mind-bending concepts accessible to the lay reader (i.e., me, and maybe you, too, if you're also not a physicist). He sprinkles the book with entertaining and informative anecdotes and his passion for the topic is infectious. Still, I shudder to think that no author ever addresses Schrödinger's ailurophobia. Here's hoping the 6-dimensional universe opens up just as this one closes!
I am now officially a Michio Kaku fan. This book explains physics as it should be taught in school. His simplistic approach begs the reader for more information. I also love physics now because I understand it a lot more thanks to Mr. Kaku's books. The school systems should think about this book as part of their cirriculum to teach the importance of understanding physics. Highly recommended.
Michio Kaku did a terrific job of explaining to the layman scientific possibilities often depicted in sci-fi.
“According to string theory, if we could somehow magnify a point particle, we would actually see a small vibrating string.
In fact, according to this theory, matter is nothing but the harmonies created by this vibrating string.
Since there are an infinite number of harmonies that can be composed for the violin, there are an infinite number of forms of matter that can be constructed out of vibrating strings.
Likewise, the laws of physics can be compared to the laws of harmony allowed on the string.
The universe itself, composed of countless vibrating strings, would then be comparable to a symphony.”
Una lectura muy reveladora. Tal vez en un lenguaje no del todo sencillo, pero está lejos de ser complicado. Deja las fórmulas y ecuaciones atrás y nos deja entrever el mundo de la física, desde el punto de vista de un gran físico.Me gustó mucho, y sobretodo, aprendí bastante.
I really enjoyed this book. As a sci-fi junky with a degree in music, I am very pleased with how much of it I understood! Kaku writes in a way that is accessible to people with little background in science. Some of the really abstract concepts went over my head but the majority was fairly easy to understand. I definitely feel smarter having read this book.
However, the book opens really nicely with very vivid and amazing explanations of just how freaky hyperspace can be as well as the implications for the world of physics.
The book also ends really well with how hyperspace can tell us something about how the universe will end as well as how it may help us, if we're still around, at that time as well as how to build a time machine and the potential evolution of an intelligent species into one capable of manipulating time and space.I imagine his other book "Physics of The Impossible" which focuses more on trying to explain with physics for well-known sci-fi concepts would be as good as the beginning and end of this book.
However, if you find that kind of topic, theoretical physics, black holes, time travel, 10 dimensional space, then I would recommend this book.
I wholeheartedly recommend this book to anyone interested in Quantum Physics.Kaku covers both the basics (Schroedinger's Cat, Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, double-slit experiment, etc) and the newest insights into the String Theory. One reason why his books are so popular is because he manages to explain difficult and logic-defying processes in an understandable way.
Kaku takes his readers on an amazing journey from Big Bang to the end of time. His uncanny ability to make even the most esoteric theories of cosmology understandable (at least from a high-level) makes Hyperspace an engaging read for any laymen pondering the wonders of the universe.
One of the most intriguing theories in the modern physics is the probable existence of a multidimensional time-space reality. Matter, space as we know sooner or later will turn to a new paradigm. A good book to think over this possibility
Universes curled up into the size of a pencil eraser???!Incredible brain food. Who needs religion when the world and its parts just keep going and going and going....?
Michio Kaku uses great examples to help the reader understand the complex physics of parallel universes, time warps, the tenth dimension and more in Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the Tenth Dimension. Some of the pictures used to describe the physics made me laugh, particularly the one with Einstein staring at dinosaurs and the dinosaurs staring back.
Intriguing topics and Dr. Kaku is one of the few people who writes for the science enthusiast. Lot of information here. However, it was not conveyed in terms understandable for the general reader. Multitude of topics discussed without ever being broken down as to why I should care or what that means in terms I can relate to. Good book for someone well versed in mathematics or physics. I enjoy the topics discussed, but they need to be broken down in a way in which anyone could understand and relate to.
Although most of the stuff about String theory and 10 dimensions was largely not understood, the book in itself was very engrossing. I liked the history of the development of the theories of higher dimensions. It was surprising to know a lot of the development started in the 19th century.
Hyperspace makes the obtuse and opaque concepts of theoretical physics accessible to anyone with an interest in science. I was delighted to learn about the world of physics that lies beyond the three dimensions that we perceive. I did find parts of the book to be too dense or technical so I just skipped over those sections.
Whew!!
The evolution of theoretical physics up to 1994.
Was waiting for a more current book, but started this in the interim.
Part I, the first four chapters and Parts III & IV, which covered 6 chapters were pretty easy to read for this non-physics person and quite interesting especially those things involving cosmology.
Part II, had my brain often saying Whaaaat???!
More technical definitely.
So why would a non-physics person, much less theoretical physics want to read this book?
Well the novel Dark Matter to be precise.
It piqued my interest in the titled Dark Matter-what is it?
Granted, I didn't understand everything in this book, The overview on the brilliant theories of specific and general relativity and their consequences I found fascinating and understandable.
After an overview in these theories you begin to see the dichotomy between the two and how string theory represents a possibly elegant solution to unify all the laws of physics under a single theory.
As the author states many times in the book, you begin to see how the laws of physics can be much more elegantly and beautifully expressed when brought into higher dimensions, an intriguing and fascinating concept.
Kaku tiene una didáctica bastante agradable y el libro está plagado de explicaciones meditadas para ser lo más sencillas posibles (a pesar de la complejidad de los temas tratados).
Es un excelente libro de referencia y descubres datos curiosos que jamás te habrías imaginado.El único contra es que ahora se encuentra desactualizado porque es pre-higgs y pre-colisionador franco-suizo de hadrones.
Así que hay algunas anécdotas, planteamientos y conjeturas que ya perdieron sentido o que ahora son hechos irrefutables.
De cualquier forma sigue siendo una gran obra que recomiendo a aquellos curiosos que no se han decidido a navegar en las aguas de la física cuántica.
another amazing theoretical physics book for the general population. i've re-read this one several times too. Dr. Kaku is an inspiration.this quote is one of my all time favorites: "...We now believe that the mind of God is music reverberating through 10 dimensional hyperspace..." Dr. Michio Kakuthis book explores so many fantastic ideas- worm holes, parallel universes and things you only thought were possible in Sci-Fi TV/films.it will challenge you to think and look at the world in a whole new way. If you've never heard of Dr. Kaku, check out his website: http://www.myspace.com/mkakuhighly recommended!!
Although some of the book was way over my head, I read the rest with great interest and learned a busload of new things about Quantum Theory.
I enjoyed the read though it took me a long time to get through the book.
I did have to skip some of the more technical stuff, but every once in a while a light would go on and I would be elated.I can't comment on the book professionally of course, but if you are interested in Quantum Theory, Dr. Kaku's writing style is extremely easy to read, entertaining in some spots and thoroughly engaging.
