https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/952307.The_Face_in_the_Abyss
Starrett, their leader, asks Nicholas Graydon , who has the dough, for aid, in Quito, Ecuador, and a big share of the uncountable, presumed, profits.
So Graydon, ten years after leaving the university, needs to make something of his life, even taking a chance, with such unsavory looking gentlemen, he doesn't expect this document, to be authentic (none are).
Not to worry, Suarra returns, leads them into the Hidden Land (Yu-Atlanchi), where people live forever, a place full of ferocious dinosaurs, and the riders on them, also invisible flying Demons (messengers, as they like to be called).
Graydon and Suarra, fall madly in love, while he fights, for the snake.
The Snake Mother is similar in nature to the Silent Ones of Merritt's first novel, "The Moon Pool," but is a much more fleshed-out character.
But before we get to that battle, Merritt also dishes out a dinosaur hunt, a dinosaur race, a tour through the Cavern of Lost Wisdom, a garden of evil, mind control, spirit possession, spider-men (and NOT of the Peter Parker variety!), and some fascinating history of and philosophizing by the Snake Mother.
I was struck by the Lord of the Rings parallels: Nimir, the Lord of Evil, was imprisoned or otherwise diminished by powerful beings in some previous age.
But Greydon, and through him Merritt, suggests that these traits are crude affectations and manipulations similar to those done by Nimir.
Her earlier statements, about the rightness of genetic manipulation of humans, also suggest that the 'good' and 'evil' at play are at best relative, or that this conflict is less about morality and more about personal enmity or personal interests.
A lost world fantasy, reminiscent of Edgar Rice Burroughs or Arthur Conan Doyle (The Lost World), featuring dinosaur survivals in a remote area of Peru, cut off from contact with the outside world, but with an early genetic engineering vibe - a race who originated in the South Pole before a polar shift made that area uninhabitable have somehow banished death (while at the same time making it impossible to have children, in order to keep their numbers in check), and have manipulated others into particular physical types such as humanoid spiders called Weavers.The protagonist stumbles upon this remnant of an advanced civilisation as part of an expedition looking for fabled riches.
Completely over the top pulp adventure with dinosaurs and ray guns, force fields and genetic engineering, a Dark Lord and a Snake Goddess.
In structure its a bit like the 'Chronicles of Riddick' in that it started out as a short story and years later the author expanded it into other crazyness.
The author throws absolutely every idea he can into this story, if you ever wanted to try a pulp this is the one to start with.
Intriguing and frustrating.
I can see reading this why A.
Merritt's work was so popular back in the day and why it fell into oblivion since then.
Where Merritt really excels is creating weird, otherworldly impressions, not so much with the poorly paced, meandering large scale plot.
(Which is maybe why I've enjoyed the short fiction I've read of his more.) His the characters are flat even by the standards of generic pulp adventure archetypes, including some not-great portrayals of Indians.
But there's some wonderful, evocative moments like the first appearance of the Face, the hero's confrontation with the Lord of Evil in his cursed garden, and the Dream-Makers.
Another book showcasing the incredible imagination and purple prose of perhaps the greatest of all the pulp writers of the 20s and 30s, Abraham Merritt, born in New Jersey in 1884.
He passed away in Florida in 1943 at the age of 59.
This one features some of Merritt's favorite themes--a lost civilization, a daring adventurer, a beautiful woman to be won, bizarre creatures, and an apocalyptic conflict between good and evil.
"The Face in the Abyss" first appeared in the September 8, 1923 issue of Argosy-All-Story.
Not my favorite of Merritt's work--I think his later "Dwellers in the Mirage" remains my favorite.
Merritt wrote fun "lost world" type adventures of sort that H. Rider Haggard once wrote. You can easily imagine Indiana Jones staring in almost any of Merritt's novels. Merritt's books are largely forgotten now; there is not much long term memory in the world of adventure fiction.
A cross between Indiana Jones and The Lost World maybe? Track this down.
Of course, that could have something to do with the Dr. Moreau-ish human / creature hybrids that inhabit a land filled with strikingly beautiful people.Like most of Merritt’s work, THE FACE IN THE ABYSS would have made an extremely entertaining cinematic pot-boiler for the Indiana Jones fans.
I kept wishing for those longer chapters to end so that I could return to the adventure.The ending is as spectacular as anything I’ve read in a John Carter tale (and with characters that would have seemed right at home there).
These days I don't let myself pick up random books by authors I have heard talked about.
I didn't feel that the author did a good job of bringing this lost world to life, evoking a sense of wonder in the reader.One day I will find a copy of The Moon Pool which is the book that most seem to cite as being his best work but until then, I won't pick up anything else I see by him.
An interesting foray in the weird pulp fiction of the 20's-30's with inspired, strange descriptions albeit simple characters, "The Face in the Abyss" was actually the joining of two tales, and it is quite noticeable.
It is worthy of note that the best characters in the book are not human and they don't act as humans for the most time and the moments in which they do are shown in contrast with their usual behavior.
This, rather that being welcomed, results in over exposition because most of the time is not really needed and through the book prevails a haunted atmosphere that collides with such explanations.
This one is a SciFi/Fantasy/Adventure story all rolled into one. Nicholas Graydon is in South America searching for lost Inca treasure, meets Suarra who is the handmaiden of the Snake Mother and who leads him to an abyss where Nimir the lord of evil is imprisoned in a face of gold. The tale takes off from there.
The first few chapters can be kind of a slog, but stick with it, it's worth it.
Also, there are remnant dinosaurs (always cool) but the author obviously had no idea what dinosaurs were like, blending traits of sauropods and therapods, describing "Tyranosaurs" with long snake-like necks and pillar-like legs.
And the smaller dinosaurs balancing in tripod formation on their tails like kangaroos is sort of nostalgic for some of the first books on dinosaurs I read when I was little, and especially the toys.Probably more of a 2.5 for quality, but it was enjoyable enough so I rounded up.
I couldn't finish this book. It had some imaginative ideas, with some inspiring scenes and settings. But reading it was laborious, with its "purple prose" and uninspired melodrama. I understand that many decades ago when the books was published, it may have been a sweeping adventure, and certainly it inspired other authors whose work I enjoy and admire, but I was not able to get into this book. Usually I'm a black hole for books, but I had to give this one up.I did love the Rodney Matthews cover of this edition, which is awesome.
I think I'm spoiled by more contemporary Sci-fi, because I felt like this dragged on a bit. I think it would also be better to read when I was less sleep deprived, and could really focus on visualizing the things he was describing instead of having to re-read the same paragraphs over and over in order to make them sink in.
Solid and classicA solid sci-fi/adventure tale from a time when lost worlds, good and evil faced off, and the hero tested on many fronts was the sought after story to experience. I enjoyed this for the rich prose and learned a lot from the choices of words employed throughout it.
A. Merritt wrote classic fantasy novels
early adventure books for me, I really enjoyed discovering A Merritt
Another good novel by this pulp era Writer. Recommended
Reviewed by Sandy: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
I just find his stuff really hard to get through. There's interesting ideas in there, just not for me.
Sublime!
read this a long time ago
