https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30349.Where_There_s_Smoke
4 Didn't See It Coming Stars!It's been a long time since I've read a Sandra Brown book.
There was a lot going on in this book but you could tell that it all tied together some how but I didn't figure it out till the end.
Key Tackett the hell raising, sexy cowboy manwhore who is just in town until the next adventure calls him away wants nothing to do with Lara or does he?
The powerful Jody stopped at nothing to get the cheating Lara out of town.
I was completely surprised at the end when everything came out and a bit sad.Will I be reading more from Sandra Brown?
Enjoyed this one. Love it when the main characters start out not liking each other. Well, he definitely did not like for… and for a good reason.  No one knows why Dr. Lara Mallory came back home to Eden Pass, Texas to open up her medical practice after all these years. But everyone remembers her role in the well-publicized scandal that caused the downfall of White House hopeful Senator Clark Tackett....To be honest, I had figured out some of the “WOW” factors that came along but that did not det
Love it when the main characters start out not liking each other.
Well, he definitely did not like for… and for a good reason.
But everyone remembers her role in the well-publicized scandal that caused the downfall of White House hopeful Senator Clark Tackett....To be honest, I had figured out some of the “WOW” factors that came along but that did not deter me from enjoying the book.
I liked Key’s sister and her story.[image error]I have read a mixture of Sandra Brown’s old and new books and her style has definitely developed in a good way.
This is me at the end of just about every SB book. No joke. Thought I had this one figured out. Well I had a bit figured out. But then at 95% or so SB throws in yet another twists. Damn it....Full review to come.
2.5-starsThis long book was filled with hypocrites and the word ‘whore’.There was nothing about Key I found swoony.I was pretty lenient toward Lara up to 60% of the book, but as the author set the subplot for a war zone in Central America, Lara character turned into a completely delusional TSTL person that I almost wanted to *dnf*.The romance seemed awkward, and the suspense was almost non-existent.Bummer:/
I was smug enough to think I had caught onto the suspense, but the author had a trick or two up her sleeve to leave me floored.
So the suspense part is good even if the length of the book could have been shorter.Key is a typical SB H –an unapologetic aphahole.
In fact anyone and everyone thinks nothing of calling her that throughout the book.
I don’t feel her alleged indiscretion was any more than what he or the others in the town were up to.
Otherwise the book had too many characters walking in and out with their stories and episodes leaving one impatient for more h/H interaction.
⭐⭐⭐⭐ 4 STARS ⭐⭐⭐⭐
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 4 STARS ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
Esta lectura no es una novela romántica sino un libro de suspense romántico, donde lo principal es el pistaco, el secreto que todo Penry oculta y que queremos descubrir a toda costa, y el amor es algo más secundario.
Además Sandra Brown siempre tiene para el lector una leche a mano vuelta que te hace ser consciente de que sus libros no son complacientes y de que, para llegar al HEA (final feliz), hay que pasar por muchas penas e incluso algunas deberemos sobrellevarlas forever (claro, que con Key dándote lo tuyo y lo de tu prima soportas tú hasta el peso del Coloso de Rodas).
Better buckle yourself in for this one! Author Sandra Brown never fails to deliver the suspense while molding a story riddled with twists and turns on the way to a shocking reveal near the end. She's quickly becoming one of my favorite go-to authors for suspense. Another Must Read by a Master of the genre!
По скоро 4,5 *
I must agree with my friends. Best Sandra Brown book I've read. She is an amazing author with unexpected twists and turns and I was most definitely NOT disappointed in this book. Shocking revelations in the last 40 pages or so. Wow. Might be one that I actually read again, in digital format of course, will be passing this on to my sister insisting she read it first!!
Lara descended into TSTL territory when they landed and Key Tackett wasn't any smarter.
But even that piece of stupidity from Dr Mallory pales in comparison to her screeching at the top of her voice (that's what Natalie Ross did, anyway) when Key was waiting for whoever to come through the door.
So of course Key is forced to shoot, anyway, and the gunfire brings the soldiers to where they are, making it even more difficult to escape.
(it wasn't rebel soldiers or Emilio who was entering the room but a goat.
3.5 stars. This book had lots of twists and turns and unexpected events. I really enjoyed the ride.
#26 for 2017 RCGenre : Suspense
In fact, when rereading the book a year or so later, I couldn't even recall the major events in the plot.Next, I selected "Chill Factor," which I enjoyed even more than "Low Pressure," although I don't believe it will be much more memorable.Going into "Where There's Smoke," I knew it had been published approximately two decades prior to the first SB novel I'd sunk my teeth into.
The final possibility is perhaps the most dreaded of all: the author had no discernable improvement or decline over time, putting out consistently mediocre novels.Again, with those possibilities in mind, I was unsure where I'd find myself with "Where There's Smoke." I found it to be typical of SB's other works but in a comfortable, familiar way, not one of complacency.
Another problem: on the night of explosion, Jody left home to stop Janellan from being with her boyfriend Bowie.
Yet Jody went to Dr. Lara's home, found someone there and shot him.
I don't know why Jody went there.
By the way, Janellan had eloped that night and went out of town to a hotel in Louisville, which Jody probably didn't know about.
I read this book before I began counting sex scenes and describing the language.
Genre: mystery.OTHER BOOKS:I’ve read one other book by Sandra Brown.
My 4 star review of “Envy” copyright 2001 was posted 12-20-09.
In Sandra Brown's Where There's Smoke, this was another one of her early favorite and classic romantic suspense novels ever.
For Dr. Lara Mallory, when she returned to Eden Pass to open up her medical practice, no one knew why she returned back home after the scandal of the downfall of Clark Tackett she caused many years ago.
So when the matriarch of Tackett oil tried to use every weapon in her arsenal to drive her out of town, she doesn't go quietly.
Very promising start. Oh, good! I thought, one of her readable ones.OOOPs. The more I read, the worse it got--the language, plot, preachiness, characters full of psychobabble about themselves and others. Ugh. I had to stop.
Just how she kept me guessing till the end, amazing. This is an loving, exciting, emotionally book, I could't stop turning the pages
WOW!From start to finish - amazing story!
OK, a fun trashy summer read. My 93 year old grandma passed it on to me!
“It was difficult to sympathize with a protagonist whose dilemma was mild when compared to her own.”
When Sr. Lara Mallory moved to East Texas, no one knew her secret, until Tacket Oil Queen, Jody Tacket made sure that everyone knew she was responsible for ruining her son Clark’s political career.
In an unlikely scenario, Lara meets Key Tacket, Clark’s younger brother, daredevil pilot and black sheep of the Tacket family.
When they arrive, will the final secrets be released or will the couple end up dead like over half of the country’s residents already are?
Or, will the final secret come to light?
This was a slow starter that had a very exciting ending. This story included a third world country take over by vicious bandits, a nasty political scandal and a motel fire with loss of life and many injuries. Truly an adventure book!
With interwoven storylines, Sandra Brown crafts a gripping tale of Lara and her lover's brother Key that will keep you guessing until the end and have you wanting to be able to just read faster.I really liked this story but there's a few things I feel like need to be addressed that I didn't quite care for.
However, I have to throw the cliche word out there again because that's the only word I can think of to describe how some of the characters developed.
But, sadly, after reading close to a hundred pages of the novel I have to say that it isn’t mine.There’s certain romance tropes that I can’t stand much, and one of them is to start out with a as irredeemable appearing male main character as possible, and Key, the books male hero, is a role model in that department.
Finally, after Clark Tackett dies and leaves her a medical practice in his home town of Eden Pass, Texas, she decides to start over there.
Key seems to share his mother’s low opinion, as does his mouse of a sister, Janellen, and the rest of the town.
The judgmental attitude that pervades this novel seems appropriate for a small town like Eden Pass, but doesn’t fit quite so well with the rest of the country, considering that infidelity did not sink the political aspirations of Bill Clinton, and notoriety has become a form of fame.

This one had another surprise that I didn't see coming.
This one is set in a small Texas town run by a matriarch of an oil family, the Tacketts.
Our heroine was caught in a scandal with the golden boy of the oil rich family and it ruined his political career.
Mama Tackett is determined to run this floozy out of town when she dares show up to claim an inheritance, she's a doctor and the senator wannabe had bought her the local practice.
Brown is queen of coming up with compelling characters and interesting story lines.
This novel, like the other ones I have read by Ms. Brown, was pretty good.
I have to admit here that I had already figured out one of the big reveals beforehand, but was more than satisfied with a number of surprises.The romance between the main characters did not offer anything heart catching until closer to the end; I thoroughly enjoyed the "secondary" romance though.
Much more sweet and drawn through the whole story.I also have to admit that I needed this novel after a long bout of more "serious" reading.
I have never been disappointed by a Sandra Brown novel.
While all of the novels I have read so far have an element of romance in them, it isn't the driving force.
Some books are easily figured out long before the last page has been read but Sandra keeps you guessing.
Don't get me wrong I have figured out where she's going on occasion with certain elements but this novel in particular ended with a bang (literally) and one that I never saw coming.
I highly recommend reading anything by Sandra Brown if you haven't yet.
