https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826521.First_Lensman
From a historical perspective, this book has a strong pedigree as the Lensmen Saga is the series most often cited as paving the way for large scale SF space opera.******(Note: That sound you hear is Mr. Asimov pffting that statement until his lips bleed).
This is a textbook example of a good concept and a compelling plot being torched to cinders by the inability of the writing to convey the story effectively.
Super powerful good aliens, the Arasians, are in an eon-spanning galactic conflict with super powerful bad (and sexless) aliens, the Eddorians.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Willing Suspension of Disbelief: “The First Lensman” by E.
Altruism is beautiful in theory, but it has never been known to work in practice."In “The First Lensman” by E.
E. Doc SmithIn many or most written SF, certainly in SF films, the canny audience member engages in a willing suspension of disbelief.
So, if I'm not offended by the stupidity, and the work in question as a narrative, then I'm happily able to suspend my disbelief and enjoy it.
One has to consider that this was published in 1940, when military men were heroes and equated with all that was good, against the forces of evil--pretty much the planet of Arisia vs.
She comes back, reporting, "Women's minds and Lenses don't fit...Lenses are as masculine as whiskers...There is going to be a woman Lensman some day--just one--but not for years and years." But Jill goes on to play a pivotal role in the plot and in the end, hooks up with one of the official Lensmen, Mason Northrup.
One can see the great influence that this work has had on TV science fiction and comic books like the 60's/present day version of "The Green Lantern," but I'm not sure why.Smith's writing is very stilted. It's worth it to muddle through this just to understand the scope of its influence, but I can't continue with this series. It's too dated and the writing is too poor.
In the latter part of that book Smith introduces the reader to Virgil Samms, who is the central character in this novel.Samms, who becomes the First Lensman, is the driving force behind the development of first the Interstellar Police, which he eventually sees as inadequate for the job needing to be done.
I would just very strongly encourage anyone reading this book to get their hands on the other books in the series as well - they are classics in every sense of the word.Worldview: secularRecommended age: It is a very "clean" book in regards to language and sexual situations.
Storyline: 1/5Characters: 1/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 1/5I read these 1950s pulp fiction classics more out of devotion to the genre than for the pleasure of the actual book.
Smith spent a lot of his wordcount and effort on addressing potential plotholes and providing a hard science fiction groundwork for his spacefaring.
The first Lensman book, Triplanetary, is one of the oldest Smith writings but was re-written as a Lensman story only after the entire series had been issued through magazines.
After the first lens is granted, and the galactic patrol is strengthened by an elite cadre of lens carrying super heroes of all races within the galaxy, the book hyper focuses on the political aspect of kick starting "civilization", here after used to refer to the "Good Guys", where as "Bosconians" is used to refer to the pirate (or is it, duh duh dummmmmm) forces that oppose all that is right and good in the galaxy.Very light reading, quick, and most enjoyable to read / hear the expressions of 1940's America used by ancient alien races, like 'Oh boy gal, ain't we got fun!", or "keep that up bub, and I'll hang one right on your chin so hard they wont see you till next Tuesday".
The First LensmanClassic space opera.
The writing styles are similar, and both are examples of what I call "Grand Humanism" in science fiction (man conquers the galaxy, etc), though Smith's characters are very cardboard.Very interesting that the good guys use a drug crisis to usurp control from local governments and create a "galaxy-wide" police force (the Galactic Patrol) with all but unlimited powers.
For the greater good and safety of course.
If anything, the space battles which take up much of the narrative will be epic.
If you don't take it too seriously, it's a nice bit of fluff for science fiction fans.
My expectations on sitting down to this book were not high. The previous Doc Smith book I'd read was not that impressive and had a bunch of casual racism, even though it was, for the time period, not too bad for how it depicted women.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Although I enjoyed Triplanetary, the set-up novel for this extended series of classic science-fiction, I still didn’t really understand what the big deal was.
This novel has strange aliens, weird alien artifacts, strange social customs, political intrigue, crime, piracy, romantic tension, a technological arms race, an unexpected torture scene, and some space battles that read differently from any I’ve yet encountered.
Somehow you sense, even if you didn’t know the third book was named Galactic Patrol, that they are going to overcome enough obstacles to succeed.
The good aliens who are guiding history to a positive outcome give the galactic patrol a device called a "lens" which, among other powers, allows them to communicate telepathically. United by the lens, the patrol goes about eradicating bad guys and turning people to a peaceful, pluralistic, democratic way of life. The series is a forerunner of Star Wars/Star Trek mindsets. Good and evil are clearly defined and people perfectible.
I found this book to be very much a product of its time, and would have said two stars except there is that spark of something more.The style comes directly out of boys' adventure books, only the moralizing is tempered.
Physical beauty is usually linked to moral superiority.
E.E. Smith takes that one step further and makes the women also smart and tall, as well as beautiful, and just as willing to go on adventures as any man.
I got the feeling E.E. Smith had actually met and talked to a few women, not common for SF writers of this time.I doubt I could have read this book in hard copy; I barely made it to the end by listening!
There are only a few in his class (i.e. Frank Herbert, Robert Heinlein) who can let their space adventure imaginations run wild.
Today I think things are more stilted...In First Lensman we are allowed into deeper thought experiments with the introduction of the Lens - a seemingly magical device that can read minds.
What would one do with such a device?This book does get a little thick with politics but with modern day hindsight, it becomes a very enjoyable read.
And I don't know enough about the super races (Arisa and Erridore) to comment.oh and last but not least, let's not forget all out space battle :)
Virgil Samms is contacted by an alien race - the Arisians - who do mental battle with the Eddorians.
Equipped with his new, psychically attuned, personalized Lens, he searches the galaxy for other potential Lensmen - men of such high mental quality and impeccable integrity that corruption isn't in their nature.But as with all things good, evil wants no part with the Lensmen - seeking to destroy them at every turn while the new Lensmen investigate a huge conspiracy ring of piracy, drugs, and politics that spans the globe and threatens to tear apart the fledgling Galactic Patrol.
Some of the original Space Opera. I remember liking the Lensman books quite a lot as a kid but when I tried to rereading one as an adult it didn't do much for me. Still, I'm going to give them 3 stars. They were pretty full of action and adventure and imagination, but the writing is pretty bad in general
The second book in what is IMHO the best Space Opera series of all time. Book 2 introduces the Lens and first lensman Virgil Samms. The only bad part was the eBook was horrible. It was unacceptably loaded with typos and grammatical errors. If I didn't love the book so much I would never have continued reading it.
Other than that there’s dirty politics (Operation Maltese), illegal narcotics (Operation Zwilnik), piracy (Operation Boskone), and, um, odd signals coming out of space (Operation Zabriska).Samms is able to solve one of the problems with the help of the mysterious Arisians (not mysterious if you’ve read Triplanetary or the introduction to this book).
Reading through I’m almost thinking I’d prefer a ground level series, in which the whole Civilisation vs Boskonia plot is in the background and we have a 1940s future of manly men solving industrial problems while all the secretaries admire them.Read This: More over the top space opera, taking on real problems with slightly dubious solutions, though the climax being the newly formed Patrol enforcing a 99.999% fair election was pretty good.Don’t Read This: If you want something other than old fashioned, somewhat ludicrous science fiction.* “Virgillia”
The entire Lensman series is just a bit of fanboy crushing for me.It was one of, if not the first space opera series I happened upon as a teen and loved every page of.
It certainly isn't gritty, the dialog is dated and a tad sexist (women cant wear a lens because why???) and some of the science is a bit fanciful and wide of the mount, but this is pure boys-own (or girls-own) adventure.
but it's still epic galaxy spanning space opera and with some great moments and sets up the rest of the series.Probably worth 3.5 but without the half star rankings, three.
I first started reading the Lensman series when I wasn't even a teenager yet.
I remember, when I was partly through the series, reading in Analog magazine about the announcement for Skylark DuQuesne, shortly before "Doc" Smith died.
And I remember just blasting through the Lensman and the Skylark series and just absolutely adoring them.
This book simply has not aged well.
I have gone back to re-read books I read when I was a kid many times.
I still enjoy the Tarzan and Barsoom series.
This book is one I just did not really enjoy re-reading.
E.E. Smith is one of the grandfathers of hard science fiction.
The Lensmen series is the blueprint of action/adventure in hard science fiction.
This is the 8th time I am reading the series, and I get more out of it each time.
So do yourself a tremendous favor and read the series.
It stars with Triplanetary, then the First Lensmen, Galactic Patrol, Gray Lensmen, Second Stage Lensmen, and finally Children of the Lens.
Any science fiction series that Two thousand million or so years ago two galaxies were colliding...
" well you know you are in for one hell of a ride.
I have a soft spot for classic sci-fi, particularly in the comparison of the authors' views on future technology against today's position. This is a great example, although I found I lost my way in three or four places; the plot seemed to jump about a bit too much for me. (Perhaps if I re-read it a little slower it will become slightly clearer for me...? I'm going to tackle books 3 to 7 in the series first though!)
yet again fun yet again don't expect a message, and sexism. We learn that the lenses cannot be used by women, which is odd because we also see several other races that use alternate reproduction methods.This book deals with a little more spy craft and a little election excitement, but there is also a story line involving a big space battle. It actually does a little bit of everything and it is an improvement from the first book.
The birthplace of Space Opera!Considerably more literate and insightful than the Damon Runyon dialogue might suggest, the “Skylark” and "Lensmen” series virtually invented the genre that came to encompass Star Trek, Star Wars, and The Terminator. Although each novel stands well alone, the sweeping vision arc caries deep thought about what it means to be human, how to do it best, and in particular the proper role of Earth’s sole standing superpower.
The Lens is given!Virgil Samms, incorruptible, is invited to Arisia, planet of immortals, to receive the Lens, a device that will link only to the user and will dissipate after their death. Using this Samm's will create the Galactic Patrol, a unit that will safeguard the galaxy. While I found the writing a little stiff, the ideas contained within, are still echoing down the corridors of science fiction today.
Five-stars for this work (technically Skylark) being one of the first Space Operas ever. I decided to read the two prequels ("Triplanetary" (1934) and "First Lensman"(1950)) before beginning the first novel: Galactic Patrol (1937).Smith's style is (just barely) a precursor to Heinlein, and it is wonderful to read the novel within that mental-framework. Out of the first three novels, my favorite was Triplanetary.
In this second book of the Lensman series, Virgil Samms is given the lens, which allows for psychic communication, by the Arisians, who are warring with the evil Eddorians. Samms is the driving force behind the development of the Interstellar Police, and after receiving the lens, organizes the Galactic Patrol. And thing take off.
Part of my childhoodI think I first read this in the school library 40 years ago. Yes, it's dated, yes, it doesn't truly stand up to the test of time, but it instilled a love of spaceships and heroes in me that has never left.
Very strange. Stereotypes and old fashioned words. It had a good ending though. Most defiantly more books.
Good read.I enjoyed this chapter in the Lensman series. It was a little slow, at times. Well worth the time to read, though.
Great storyLove this series, read the first time 43 years ago. Not to be read for technically but to enjoy the story, take a break from real world and relax
