https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/496585.The_Divided_Self
The explanation is that this book gets at the root cause of so many things...The psychology classes I took in college were such awkward mashups of psychoanalysis and behaviorism, at once oversimplifications and obfuscations.
If I'd known psychology could be like this, I might have majored in it.The philosophy classes I took in college were more about things than about being--more about essence than existence, I guess, in more traditional terms--certainly more about object than about subject.
If I'd known philosophy could be like this, I might have majored in it.As it was, the best I could do was major in English, which suited me just fine.
This work resonates what I had been thinking for years, it's like a treasure chest filled with things that one knew with great familiarity. An in-depth description and analysis on the phenomenon of the Divided Self. It goes right into the heart of the situation, the inner world, and the dynamics of the Divided Self. The writing is simple and concise, philosophically insightful and psychologically satisfying. Somehow, the ontologically-secure person is the ideal that the self needs to strive for.
From a foundation of ontological insecurity, in which the 'self' is divided from the body, the schizoid personality finds refuge within the safe haven of incomprehensibility.
Never feeling secure within a monistic, holistic sense, the divided self fractures into semi-autonomous entities which serve to shield the person from an imagined external threat of annihilation.
Laing postulates that schizophrenia is a reaction to the basic insecurity of rejection; that by adopting the persona of a false-self, by hiding behind a masquerade, the true self is immune from all attacks.
You can't ever feel insecure in this situation if the persona you project is not the 'self' which you believe to be YOU.
After a second, or third read (I can't remember), I still consider this the best phenomenological psychology I've ever read.The case studies showed a combination of empathy and rationality that I find rarely in any written works about people.
Frankly, it reminds me of Sartre's claim that any ego, empirical or transcendental, must be constituted on the basis of an impersonal field of experience.
To read particular accounts of experience shifting from this impersonal field to one persona or another puts flesh on these philosophical bones, to say the least.It may be intolerably crass to cite H.P. Lovecraft, the author of gothic fiction, in an attempt to appreciate psychiatric case studies of real human beings, but bear with me.
Hence, schizophrenics are everything in fantasy because they are nothing in reality; self-willing their death so as to preserve their life from external death - it is the imagination that has destroyed reality.
No one outside of Laing chose to talk about this topic with the understanding that what schizophrenics were doing and saying wasn't insane, but a mere reflection of their personal, and perhaps our larger social tragedy.
As a result, Laing was labeled an anti-psychiatrist and stigmatized as a crazy lefty, but for those who really want to understand what happens to individuals in an individualist, i.e. alienated, society, there is no better resource in all of psychological literature than Laing's book here.
one of the best books i've ever read about the workings of the mind; right up there with Consciousness Explained, The Mind of a Mnemonist: A Little Book about a Vast Memory, and The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind. one of those books that presents the mind as a place and not just a bunch of terminology.on the other hand it makes me want to check myself into a mental hospital ASAP. but hey. pros and cons.
R.D. Laing was only twenty-eight years old when he penned his magnum opus, which is a brilliant and visionary orientation to mental illness, informed by the masters of existential-phenomenology (Jaspers, Sartre, et al.), and a work which made him a counter-culture star.
Mental illness, then, is a product of our social relations, master-slave dynamics within family and society which inevitably cause some to become "ontologically insecure." The ontologically insecure person is affectively cut off from experience, withdrawn unto himself, enclosed inside a central citadel which is impenetrable to others.
This book blew my goddamn mind. Of course now I'm convinced I'm schizophrenic, but then again...
It was an approach that didn’t just start from noting down all the abnormalities and then bombarding the person with Thorazine.
It tried to understand the differences, to make sense of what seemed to make no sense.
I am not sure it got everything right, and maybe it was replacing one mistaken interpretation of schizophrenia with another mistaken interpretation, but it was one hell of an attempt to break away from the rigid “this person is mad and nothing makes sense” approach.
It certainly helped me along the path to listening and to not equating difference with abnormality.
The year out of school had been fruitful in that the time to read freely led to new interests in philosophy, psychology and religion--to, in other words, consideration of the inner life.
I returned to college wanting to major in psychology.Grinnell's Psychology Department, however, did not offer much of what I was interested in.
Consequently, I had to pursue other avenues which involved some straight psych, some ed psych and a lot of independent study and directed reading projects, many of them sponsored by members of the Department of Religion, some of whom were themselves licensed psychotherapists.
The Divided Self is a fairly good and short phenomenological/existential description of schizoid/schizophrenic being-in-the-world.
For this reason, the book deals much less with alleged causes of madness and more with the healthy and unhealthy relationships between self, body, and world.For example and as Laing claims, key to understanding the divided character of schizophrenic madness is the distinction between the patient's real self and her presented self: the real self constantly battles to overcome the presented self/body that has been merged or taken over by the world/others.
Though neurotic individuals can experience depersonalization or de-realization, their disembodied experiences often leave once their anxiety is taken care of; by contrast, the division between one's own body, one's presented self, and one's 'real' self is fundamental and a permanent feature of the schizophrenic's madness.
One of my all time favourite books. A wonderful and insightful alternative view of schizophrenia. Inspiring.
Notwithstanding this particular summation, my intent is to respect the specific nature of Laing’s endeavor while attempting to abstract his existential comportment and relatedness into a generalized overview towards the givens of existence.The “problem,” according to Laing, begins with the terminology utilized in exploring the lived experience of others.
Hence, any theory that attempts to synthesize the individual as conditioned responses and learned behaviors, is just as preposterous as any person whose lived experience is envisaged as a robot, a computer, a mind only (with no body), or even as an inhuman animal; “Life, without feeling alive” (Laing, 1969, p.42).
You always get the best insights from the people who have actually experienced the disorders.
R D Laing has been on both sides of the therapist's couch, so to speak.
This is one of the best, most insightful psychology books I have read, certainly the best account of what schizophrenia is actually like.
I assume.
I wouldn't really know, so I'm trusting Liang to know his stuff.
Anyway yeah, I'm excited to write my essay now because of this book.
Still a little intimidated by the topic (how does one argue about the self and consciousness, there's nothing to hold on to!) but excited nonetheless.
In keeping with my current excursion into the world of abnormal psych, I've just attempted 60 pages of this classic.
I think R.D. Laing's main point - that madness is vastly misunderstood and therefore mistreated - is absolutely true, but I found that this book uses as much depersonalizing language as the psychiatrists the author criticizes.
I found it very hard reading in spots, and my public library wouldn't let me renew it because it was so overdue.
But for now, it seems Hashem is leading me to All for the Boss.
Perfectly merges an exploration of common anxieties and underlying conflicts with a discussion of mental disorders making the schizophrenic seem not just more human but all too like ourselves - thus revealing our own insanity. Yet somehow the book is not troubling but cathartic. 5 stars.
Utterly amazing. Read this many years ago while at university and it helped change my perception of psychiatry and psychology. It changed my whole perception of what mental illness was and how it is such a thin Line between us 'normal' people and those with a diagnosis.
I think this crazy Scottsman may be my fave pychiatrist that ever lived
I am not a fan of psychology, but I felt that this was a very human and humane treatment of mental illness. Illuminating in its understanding and sensitivity.
This too, was a set-up book, surveying one of the seminal backgrounding source books Will Self used in creating his alter-ego character, Dr. Zack Busner psychiatrist and oddly too a"Knight of the Rueful Figure" in so many ways, which run throughout the entirety of (Self's) novelistic work beginning with "Quantity Theory of Insanity" - so, and but so, getting back to THIS book and author, well it's interesting mostly now as dated psychotherapy with some trippy stuff about ontological embodiment and false-self [divided] configured peeps, all with meds but before pharmacology took over, but even more so because Laing went much further in holding back, the jargon, classifications and treatments or lack thereof.
It's all things schizoid which is Self's playground and as such this, Laing's book so neatly puns Will as in his OWN 'Divided Self' don't'cha-think?
And I like to think I'd know something of this, working in the trade.There have been some mind-melting sections, some mind-bending sections and then there have been some enlightening and well crafted sections.I've enjoyed reading every page - even the ones that have 'lost' me on occasion!It's always good examining what you're doing every day, how your thought processes and communication impact on others, and how new ways of viewing something could positively impact on your dealings with others.
Never is this more the case than when supporting those with mental health issues.Laing is someone I was briefly told about during my training, but never someone I was encouraged (or felt inclined) to explore.

Though this writing is pushing 60 years, Laing's explanation of psychopathology and the impact of lost identity is tremendously insightful.
Laing was railroaded in the pyschiatric community for his extreme humanisitic approach to the causes and treatment of the severely mentally ill, which is a pity since he approaches the schizoid person as a human being in search of regaining clarity and rejoining their true self, not just a medical oddity to be considered in cold and technical fashion of modern psychiatry.
This book will be of special interest to others in the mental health profession, but of great interest to most anyone who gravitates towards existentialism.
"Psychotherapy is an activity in which that aspect of a patient's being, his relatedness to others, is used for therapeutic ends. The therapist acts on the principle that, since relatedness is potentially present in everyone, then he may not be wasting his time in sitting for hours with a silent catatonic who gives every evidence that he does not recognize his existence."
As a student of psychology, it is perhaps easier to read the literature and be somewhat dispassionate about it. This book proves the exception to that rule! Probably the most insightful, provocative read into what could be termed "the inception of schizophrenia (hence the title), that anyone has yet recorded!Incredible! Sometimes, painfully so!BjR
if you really want to understand schizophrenia, this is one of the best books on the subject that i've read.
Well, that was a disquieting mirror to my own psyche...I loved it!
R D Laing might urge you not to be so ontologically insecure, somewhat like this book did me all those years ago.
Anything more and it's Google ramble time.I chose to read this book about eight years ago after I heard of R D Laing from a friend.
It's awfully tricky for me to address 'ontological insecurity' specifically so let's just copy paste some right here;'R D Laing, one of the best-known psychiatrists of modern times, was born in Glasglow in 1927' (First line from my copy of The Politics of Experience and The Bird of Paradise').Addressing mental health can be problematic for different reasons and foremost I'd like to think this book postulates certain ideas, while the reader examines.
What this basically means is that the author, a rogue psychiatrist quite well-versed in existential philosophy (there are numerous references to Heidegger and Sartre) as well as an appreciation for the classical Marxist conceptions of false consciousness and alienation, seeks to revise the traditional understanding of madness (what he calls the "biological analogy") by showing that it is a phenomenon birthed in the dynamics of human intersubjectivity, and thus, has its meaning within the ambit of social dynamics - but since only one model of reality/sanity is allowed by definition (for what is sane gets its substantiality from its opposition to what is not sane), this alternative formulation of human life and striving goes undeciphered.
Laingas buvo vienas iš svarbiausių šiuolaikinės psichiatrijos arba antipsichiatrijos pagrindėjų, egzistencinę filosofiją gerai išmanantis eruditas – ir turbūt vienas iš argumentų skaityti šią knygą yra tai, kad ji suteikia ypatingą perspektyvą daugybei filosofinių sampratų – nuo Descarteso iki Heideggerio, Buberio ir Marcuse’s.
Kita vertus, remiantis šia knyga (pirmą sykį jauno autoriaus išleista 1959-aisiais) galima kvestionuoti taip pat šiuolaikinėje podeliozinėje kultūroje įsigalėjusį asubjektyvumo, “šyzos” kultą – čia asmens reflektyvumo stoka, jo autonominio lygmens, jausmo, kad “aš esu tikras, realus” stygius siejamas su ontologinio nesaugumo ir iš jo kylančio nerimo jausmu.
Žmogus, kuris sako, kad negrai yra žemesnioji rasė, gali susilaukti visuotinės pagarbos.
Žmogus, kuris sako, kad jo baltumas yra vėžio forma, laikomas nepakaltinamu.
