https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76706.Track_of_the_Cat
In other words, she seems to enjoy describing the gruesome scene in lurid detail but voices no empathy toward the victim.The deal-breaker: The main character Anna is a zombie of a human being devoid of emotion and completely unable to connect to another person.
This made the book VERY difficult to finish.Anna's approach to solving crime while executing her job as a law enforcement officer was at best unethical including performing illegal searches by breaking into an office and rifling through files rendering any evidence she might have found useless and inadmissible.
Did anyone perform a psychological test on Anna when she applied for this job?
Definitely a tourism booster - except for the whole death thing, as my mother pointed out: Anna Pigeon, the protagonist, is definitely the Jessica Fletcher of the NPS - wherever she goes, someone dies.I didn't really care for Pigeon herself, though, and really liking at least one major character is essential if you're going to read a whole series of books.
I didn't dislike her as much as I do Stephanie Plum: while I will do just about anything to make sure I never read another Janet Evanovich book again, I would pick up another one in the Anna Pigeon series at some point to learn more about the parks.
Anna Pigeon has left her New York City life and memories for the remote life of a park ranger in the Guadalupe Mountains in West Texas.
However, even the beautiful scenery of West Texas can hold violence.
Her desire to keep the blame from the mountain lion leads her in more trouble than she suspected when she herself is involved with a terrible accident, and another ranger goes missing.
The book has really incredible descriptions that make you feel like you are in the Guadalupe Mountains with Anna.
However, the book is really well-written, and I think it could be enjoyed by a wide audience.
In the inaugural book in the Anna Pigeon series, we learn that Anna has recently fled NYC after the accidental death of her husband and is now employed as a law enforcement ranger at Guadaloupe Mountains National Park in west Texas.
When she stumbles upon the remains of fellow ranger Sheilah Drury who appears to have been mauled to death by a mountain lion.
Although an autopsy confirms this supposition, further investigation by Anna appears to shed doubt that her death was anything but accidental.
However, when another accidental death occurs, Anna suspects something nefarious is occurring.
The texture, scents and sounds of the West Texas wilderness permeate this forceful debut, in which the murder of a National Park Service ranger illuminates the conflicts between those who want to place our country's open spaces and wildlife under government protection and those who want to profit from them.
Anna Pigeon has fled New York City after the accidental death of her husband, and she now works as a law enforcement ranger at Guadaloupe Mountains National Park.
There she finds the remains of fellow ranger Sheila Drury, who apparently was clawed to death by a mountain lion.
This is the first book in the Anna Pigeon mystery series. It is a pretty wild ride, with Anna doing some pretty stupid things and almost dying. I'm interested enough in the series that I am sure I will read on, but I hope that Nevada Barr dials down the TSTL in the future installments, otherwise Anna's continued existence will become increasingly implausible.One sentence review: Female park ranger with no sense of self-preservation solves murder without dying.
I’ve read most of the Nevada Barr mystery series books. The protagonist is a National Park Ranger and each book takes place in (mostly) different national parks. I’ve learned a lot about various national parks and the national park system from these books. Although I think Barr’s books actually generally improve with time, I have a very soft spot in my heart for this first book in the series. I absolutely love the “animal rights” message. More depressing atmosphere/depressed character(s) throughout than in most mystery fiction.
I love all of the Anna Pigeon mysteries because they take place in the national parks. She and her relatives/co-workers/friends are all fun to follow through the series. Nevada Barr has a gift for coming up with wacky characters with bizarre backgrounds. Good thing these aren't really the kind of people we have prowling our parks on a regular basis. :>)I also really enjoy this series because I get to learn about national parks I've never visited, and probably never will.
McKittrick Canyon - Pratt Cabin and Grotto Trail★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I truly enjoyed the start of the Anna Pigeon series! I will definitely be continuing on with the rest of the books, especially when I see that they are narrated by the talented Barbara Rosenblat. I’ve heard her in countless audiobooks; however, in this one, like the Aisling Grey: Guardian series, she sounds completely different. Granted, she doesn’t have the international accents that she has in that series
McKittrick Canyon - Pratt Cabin and Grotto Trail★★★★½ (This is a review of the audiobook.) I truly enjoyed the start of the Anna Pigeon series!
I’ve heard her in countless audiobooks; however, in this one, like the Aisling Grey: Guardian series, she sounds completely different.
Granted, she doesn’t have the international accents that she has in that series, but she does a wonderful job of the different southern dialects found in this mystery novel.This was a good “who-done-it,” too.
For the most part, each book in the series takes place in a different National Park.
From the start something irked me about the lead character, Anna Pigeon, park ranger.
This is the first in a series featuring her, so I think wanting to spend time with the character, either because she's fascinatingly complex or quirky or likable is important.
I've read Barr was herself a Park Ranger and I can believe it.
Then she finds the body of a fellow park ranger, Shelia Drury.
Right there, on page 16, the author lost me.
After that I just could not care about Anna Pigeon or spend another page with her.
She is irreligious from the first sentence of the novel - "There hadn't been a god for many years" - and I had noticed this in the one other novel of Nevada Barr's I had read - Hard Truth.There's a little bit about her personal life in here but she's a hard person to get to know.
The plot of this novel was a little bit "out there" - crazy stuff happens and Anna is, of course, the only one who knows who did it and what is going on.
I have a feeling it's going to be like this in the other books, too.
Track Of The Cat was a first read by Author Nevada Barr & i must say what a wonderful storyline & ea
Anna Pigeon, a law enforcement ranger at Guadaloupe Mountains National Park in West Texas, finds a colleague supposedly mauled to death by a mountain lion. Anna is leary and begins an investigation that nearly ends in her death by looking into the death despite opposition from her bosses. Suspicion falls on everyone from the murdered ranger's lover, someone oppposed to the dead ranger's efforts to open the park to the public and a powerful rancher opposition to Park Service policies. Decent whodunnit.
*Caution some spoilers*This book was torture to read.
The only reason I didn't drop it in the first chapter was because it's a book club read.
She finds the body of her coworker and it has been picked on by vultures.
Well, thank God for ketchup." Sorry, but that's not my idea of something to think about after finding your coworker dead and being eaten by vultures.
First she cries, not because she just found her coworker's dead body, but because now the animals will be hunted down and killed.
I guess this book just wasn't for me.
This is the first of the Anna Pigeon novels, a National Parks ranger and sleuth.
We don't learn the whole story of why she leaves the city to become a ranger in the first book, but perhaps will learn more in follow-up novels.
In the spirit of "bromance" tales, Anna befriends Christina, another National Parks employee, whom she crushes on.
No one is more surprised by this than Anna herself, as she has no close friends, preferring the solitude of the park to life with others.
Apparently the series is set in a range of national parks, which I find unique and interesting.
I love our National Parks and for many summers my husband was a seasonal ranger, so the idea of solving mysteries in the parks is compelling to me.
Unfortunately the book didn't quite stand up to my preconceived idea of what it would be.
I didn't like Anna Pigeon very much.
Nothing in the book is very surprising, and the supporting cast is portrayed as too dumb while Anna is portrayed as too smart.
I want the characters to be real, and to feel like I would meet them and like them.
I want characters to be imperfect, like me.
I listened to this on audiobook. The narrator did a very good job. I really liked this. Anna Pigeon is a great protagonist. She’s witty, sarcastic, and tough. Barr has done a terrific job at creating a character that you want to follow in multiple books as this series is quite long. The plot was interesting and I really enjoyed the wilderness/National Park setting. It added something different to the mystery novel. This was a fun experience and I look forward to the next Anna Pigeon mystery adventure.
Track of the Cat by Nevada Barr is the first book in the Anna Pigeon mystery series.
Park ranger in the Guadalupe Mountains, Anna comes across the body of one of her fellow rangers whose death is put down to a mountain lion attack.
Anna suspects otherwise, especially when further accidents occur.
It took me a while to get interested in the book at first but I ended up enjoying it immensely.
Anna is a strong and capable character and I especially likes her phone calls with her psychologist sister.
I loved the writing style and the spectacular descriptions.
An interesting, slow paced mystery.
We meet Anna Pigeon, who has left what seems to be a relatively lucrative life in New York City to become a law enforcement ranger at Guadalupe Mountains National Park.
It may be true, but based on the way she interacts with nearly all people in this book, I am not convinced that if it were a human being falsely accused instead of a mountain lion that Anna would be quite so focused.
The way Anna observes people is quite clinical, from their appearances to what she perceives as their motivations; rarely is there any substantial emotion attached to as single person.
We've always planned to go back in a milder season but have not done so yet.In the gift shop of the visitor's center, I learned about Nevada Barr, who has written 18 mysteries set in United States National Parks, all featuring park ranger Anna Pigeon.
I am finally getting around to starting the series.Track of the Cat is set in Guadalupe Mountains National Park in West Texas, east of El Paso.
"No, Anna, don't enter that canyon!" But of course she does and lives to feature in 17 more books set in National Parks all over the country.
Star rating: 2 StarsWhile out hiking the Dog Canyon in west Texas, Anna Pigeon, stumbles across the body of a fellow park ranger.
When the death is ruled accidental and blamed on a mountain lion, Anna knows something fishy is going on.
She knew upon discovering the body that it wasn't a lions kill, so who did kill Sheila Drury?
Anna will do everything in her power to find out.At first this novel started out extremely promising, with a quick lead in and an intelligent main character.
I won't be reading the next novel in this series.
This book introduces Anna Pigeon, a ranger in the U.S. Park Service.
Hiking her way back to the station, she comes across the body of a fellow-ranger, Sheila Drury, who has apparently been killed by a mountain lion.
We learn that Anna used to live in New York City, and after the violent death of her husband, took a job with the ranger service to get away from the memories and change her life.
It's a great way for the reader to learn more about the main character and it changes the setting between a big city and the desolation of the park.The mystery was fast-paced and suspenseful.
Really enjoyed this as great summer escape reading (especially in high summer temperatures, as you can better sympathize with the baking dry heat in the book!).I can add Nevada Barr to my list of go-to authors I enjoy.Anna Pigeon is still struggling with the grief of her husband's death, but she's scrappy and survival savvy.
I feel like this would make an excellent theme for trips: follow the Anna Pigeon trail & visit the national parks featured in the novels.
I think she is supposed to come off as tough, and caring about the environment.
I don't know what values Anna Pigeon holds other than "never kill any wild animal, ever, even if the people who know the most about caring for wild animals say it's a good idea, even if it costs people their lives." I only finished the book because it is a mystery and I wanted to find out the answer.
This book came out almost 20 years ago and it feels very much like a book that came out of the early 90's - not in a good way.
I love the way the author (a former Park Ranger) makes the park come alive and the wildlife, all while telling a good story with interesting characters.
This book really "spoke" to me because I'm a sucker for Big Cats and mountain lions play a major part in this story!
It's not a long book, but there are parts that take your breath away with the beautiful descriptions of the Guadalupe Mountains and wildlife, parts that make you cry at the cruel selfish human tricks, and even one part (I won't spoil it!) that was so sweet it brought tears to my eyes.
What's not to love about a mystery whose main protagonist is a National Park Service ranger who loves hiking and Tecate beer? Feeling a little sorry for myself while recovering from the flu, I curled up with Anna Pigeon for company and inhaled this lovely little Bob Bon of a book. Who killed Anna's fellow ranger and left her in a canyon to be devoured by buzzards and why? As Anna eliminates suspects, the perp begins eliminating possible witnesses. Lovely plot twists, interesting cast of characters and damn good company for a convalescent.
#1 in the Anna Pigeon series. "1993 Agatha Award for Best First Novel; 1994 Anthony Award for Best First Novel; Finalist 1994 Macavity Award for Best First Novel" Great start for a great series.Ranger Anna Pigeon mystery - fellow ranger is killed in Guadalupe Mountains National Park, apparently the victim of a mountain lion attack.
First in the Anna Pigeon series. This was all it took to get me hooked on Anna Pigeon!
mp3Nice company for the day - will read more of this series.
I rated this book at 4.2 ****This is my first read by Nevada Barr.
I thought is was a good book, well-written,with interesting descriptions of the Park.
I really think her character was par for the course.
Most first characters in series usuallyhave hard shells, the longer the series, themore the character fleshes out and we seehow and why she developed that shell.There was some swearing with the "f" word a few times, and fairly explicit descriptions of the murders.
For the most part, pretty soft-core as mysteries go.I plan to read the rest of the series andrecommend it to most mystery loves.
