https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18336965-my-heart-and-other-black-holes
trigger warning for suicide with this book. Where do I even begin? This story was at times hard to read, not because it was bad (it was AMAZING), but because it was so dark. I wanted to dive into this book and lead the characters in a different direction. I'm struggling finding words to express my feelings for this book. I'll just simply say, I loved it.
Aysel might be a really smart physics nerd, but her "voice" feels like that of a real person; a real teenager.
(view spoiler)[Aysel finally admits she has feelings for Rowan and suddenly, overnight, it's like the depression has started to be washed away:He’s no longer the person I want to die with; he’s the person I want to be alive with.I find this to be many things - lazy, untruthful, even a damaging message.
I wouldn't go so far as to portray this as a "love cures all" book - personally, I didn't even think it was very romancey - but it completely misrepresents depression and suicidal thinking by suggesting that someone can flick a switch in their brain and decide to be happy and alive.
Sure, there are things in my life that make me feel alone, but nothing makes me feel more isolated and terrified than my own voice in my head.I also loved how Roman described how he felt about missing his little sister because it reminds me of how I feel when I think of my little brother.The hardest moments are when I miss her in the future.After my brother passed away, for a long time, I had moments where it was like a part of my mind was still in denial.
You can find the full review and more about this book on my blog!____________________________________________  “You're like a grey sky. You're beautiful, even though you don't want to be.”   ____________________________________________First of all let's appreciate the cover.And not only this one,but every cover that this book has.They are all so beautifully done,so great job on that.My Heart and Other Black Holes is a contemporary novel,about Aysel and Roman who are different by personality but

I really enjoyed this. The whole idea of suicide partners provided a very different look at mental illness. I loved the striking honesty and the hope woven throughout the story. Really a great read.
3.5 stars ⭐  “Sometimes I wonder if my heart is like a black hole - it’s so dense that there’s no room for light, but that doesn’t mean it can’t still suck me in.” This was an honest look into teenage suicide. Aysel and Roman meet on an online forum designed for people to find ‘suicide partners’, a person they plan to commit suicide with. It took a while for me to like the main characters, it seems I’m that way with all characters - I can never like someone immediately. After a few chapters I be
“This must be a sign from the universe - if the only time you get lucky is when you’re planning your suicide, it’s definitely time to go.” We follow Aysel and Roman as they makes their plans, and we learn about their histories and why they both want to die.
“It’s like your sadness is so deep and overwhelming that you’re worried it will drown everyone else in your life if you let them too close to it.” I enjoyed their different personalities and how they grew closer, I just don’t think it had quite the depth that ATBP had.
This is such a special, weird, complicated, beautiful book.
I'm a clinical psychologist who spent several years doing therapy almost exclusively with kids and teenagers.
This is the book I wish my clients could have read.
Warga nailed her portrayal of clinical depression, but even more so, she created an achingly familiar, completely realistic teenage character who isn't defined by diagnostic labels.
And then she shows us all the messy, dark stuff that truly is a part of reality for so many kids.
Warga goes there, fearlessly - and I think this authenticity is so sorely needed.
Review and playlist posted at Young Adult Hollywood.Disclaimer: I spent 90% of my time gross sobbing to the point I had to dry my tears, because I couldn't read what I was supposed to be reading. “I bet if you cut open my stomach, the black slug of depression would slide out. Guidance counselors always love to say, “Just think positively,” but that’s impossible when you have this thing inside of you, strangling every ounce of happiness you can muster. My body is an efficient happy-thought-killin
My body is an efficient happy-thought-killing machine.” If I could be a book or if there's a story in the world that could describe some part of me as a person, My Heart and Other Black Holes is one of the few titles I would say yeah, this book contains a part of me.As far as I could remember, I have always been struggling with depression.
It would have saved me countless of nights crying myself to sleep.In My Heart and Other Black Holes, we have Aysel a teenager who is struggling with depression.
4 stars!     “Sometimes I wonder if my heart is like a black hole--it's so dense that there's no room for light, but that doesn't mean it can't still suck me in.”  My Heart and Other Black Holes was a unique and at times painful YA read about dealing with depression and guilt. I felt that this story very accurately displayed what it’s like to feel that kind of depression and the desperation that comes along with it. It’s about Asyel and Roman and the battle they’re both facing. Asyel and Roman d
“Sometimes I wonder if my heart is like a black hole--it's so dense that there's no room for light, but that doesn't mean it can't still suck me in.”
My Heart and Other Black Holes was a unique and at times painful YA read about dealing with depression and guilt.
I felt that this story very accurately displayed what it’s like to feel that kind of depression and the desperation that comes along with it.
It’s about Asyel and Roman and the battle they’re both facing.
Besides the fact that they both want to die.
I didn’t want to put it down.
I read this book in one sitting, overnight, and I'm sure many others will find themselves sharing in this experience. MY HEART AND OTHER BLACK HOLES is a panoramic novel about existence, and Aysel and Roman's relationship - suicide partners - is an impressive combination of tragic and life-affirming. There's so much more I want to say, but I should STFU now until there are at least ARCs out in the world.
*Roman's turn for 2015 favorite re-read!!!* :P  "Be careful," he says."Why?" I’m not thinking about being careful. I’m thinking about one last push, of letting go, of flying, and of falling.“You aren’t allowed to die without me,” he whispers.  *Indiscernible noise* Did you hear that? What’s that, you ask? That noise….what is that noise??? Let me tell you what that noise is: That’s the sound of my heart beating, my soul soaring, my spirits shining blindingly bright, my fangirl screeching….That, m
To feel like there is no way out, that the only answer for suffering is to end your life-I don’t take that shit lightly, and it kills me that people don’t find that help they need before it’s too late.
And that is the definition of this book for me-While I have never suffered from depression myself, I feel, if only a little bit, like I got a good, hard look into the mind of two young teens who were depressed…And now, just maybe, I’ll think twice before discarding these signs in the future.
The two characters in the story make me empathize with their causes because they believe there is no other better course in life than to end their own.
I knew I had good reason to empathize with the characters because they do grow in the story.
I think many of our young people today heavily seek validation and acceptance from society- others even depend their lives on it.
The story reminds us however how flimsy and unreliable it is to always seek other people’s approval to prove your self-worth when all you really need is the acceptance and love of the people you love and those who truly matter to you.
4 stars!   “Maybe we all have darkness inside of us and some of us are better at dealing with it than others.”   Sixteen year old Aysel is ready to die. Thrown in the aftermath of her father’s actions, she has been shunned and pulled away from everyone close in her life. An outcast at school and in her own home, Aysel has been spending her time browsing suicide websites where she meets Roman. They make a pact to kill themselves on a specific day, and in order to keep up pretenses for their fami
An outcast at school and in her own home, Aysel has been spending her time browsing suicide websites where she meets Roman.
Aysel brought my eyes to tears multiple times in the beginning of this book.
Her family doesn’t know how to reach her, and at times it seems like they don’t want to.Roman had an equally horrific reason for wanting to take his own life, one shrouded in guilt I couldn’t even begin to understand.
Aysel was my favorite part of this book, I never at any point felt her feelings were unjustified, even if her turn around was fairly quick.
Maybe I've already read too many similar books, but this felt like a beginner's guide to depression.
Predictability and unoriginality of plot as well as characters, made me feel like I had read this story many times before.
They plan a trip to Norway, where they want to jump of a cliff.In My Heart and Other Blacke Holes it may only be the Ohio River but let's not forget that the main characters also fall in love.
While she was rather self-centered and impolite, he got angry over her making jokes all the time.One look at the cover sums up my feelings for this book.
The beginning of this book was really difficult for me to read, but I'm really glad I stuck with it because I ended up really loving this story.
Yes, this novel is messed up and sad and shocking at times to think that someone would want a sort of motivational coach to make sure they achieve death, but suicide pacts do happen, especially with teens, so no matter how effed up this is, it is real and all too heartbreaking.
Suicide is a tough subject to execute in a novel, and while there are some realistic parts, the whole premise (which was basically a how-to on finding a suicide partner and then you add in the "love is the answer" bit..) made me fear for a troubled teen reading this book.
3.5 Stars!!If you didn’t know depression is a common mental disorder, characterized by sadness, loss of interest or pleasure, feelings of guilt or low self-worth, disturbed sleep or appetite, feelings of tiredness, and poor concentration.
On Smooth Passages, a website for people who wants to die she meets FrozenRobot aka Roman, a 17 years old boy who decides like Aysel to give up.
Roman doesn’t look like someone who wants to kill himself, he has a loving family and he also has friends.
Roman is a character I liked, almost the entire time reading this novel.
Of course, it was the *heartbreaking* sort of hope, the kind where I grew to love Aysel and Roman, two characters who have so much passion and potential, yet direct that energy toward their mutual goal: helping each other die.
I think this will be an important book in the world because it has the potential to BE that connection for those who are reluctant to talk with an actual human about the dark clouds that haunt them—through Aysel and Roman, perhaps they will finally find someone to identify with.
This is a bittersweet story about two teenagers who are depressed, isolated and suicidal.
In the face of all these adversities, isolation, shame, depression and suicidal thoughts are unsurprising corollaries.
Although the author succeeded in describing the sadness and pain of her two young characters accurately for the most part of the book, I couldn’t feel their torment.
The book only left me feeling underwhelmed and conflicted about my own lack of compassion in the face of so much tragedy and unhappiness.The tone of the book was set early on : “There’s something poetic about the fact that the first boy to ever ask for my number is the same boy I’m going to die with.” From that point on, the novel became sentimentally predictable to me.
“Depression is like a heaviness that you can’t ever escape. It crushes down on you, making even the smallest things like tying your shoes or chewing on toast seem like a twenty-mile hike uphill. Depression is a part of you; it’s in your bones and your blood.”  __________________________________This book will get under your skin and live inside you. It is tragic, empowering (it has a few hopeful moments), and beautiful. I can not get enough of this book. It's truly incredible. 1) The Plot Sixtee
But eventually their path becomes more concrete, and Aysel questions if she wants to actually do it.So, just from the synopsis alone, one can tell that this is a serious book that deals with serious topics.
This book is so dark, and it deals with mental-illness in a way that is incredibly truthful, and as someone who fights depression and has multiple suicide attempts, this book is insanely accurate.
A lot of books have delved into mental illness, especially the topic of depression and suicide, just to name a few: All the Bright Places by Jennifer Niven (which I honestly didn't enjoy) and I Was Here by Gayle Forman (which I also didn't like).

MINOR SPOILERS AHEADSecondly, this is a tragic, heavy, but beautiful story about Aysel and Roman who have been affected by a loss of a loved one.
Subsequently, they meet on a website where one looks for a suicide partner.
Now, I know a lot of people hate this 'trope' of love making it better and I can't speak for clinical depression fully either (or suicide), though I went through something myself.
But, love doesn't make the depression and the suicidal thoughts go away in this instance.
I appreciated how she explored depression and suicide.
"Music, especially classical music, ... has kinetic energy. ...once the notes are in the air, they collide against one another. They spark. They burst. I spend a lot of time wondering what dying feels like. What dying sounds like. If I'll burst like those notes, let out my last cries of pain, and then go silent forever. Or maybe I'll turn into a shadowy static that's barely there, if you just listen hard enough."  You know when a woman says that she or something is fine then it really means tro
Well this book was fine!OUCH!!!Aysel was a teenage girl suffering with depression.
I felt sorry for Aysel because it's a natural human emotion to feel that way when you read about someone else in pain.
*sighs*For Aysel to suddenly change her mind about wanting to live and not die because she fell in love with Roman and how he truly saw her...
Can we only truly want to live because we fall in love and meet our other half???
I know I wanted to experience some emotions because of reading this book...
I wonder if that's how darkness wins, by convincing us to trap it inside ourselves, instead of emptying it out.  Wow. What a powerful and painful and beautiful book, though not at all in the way I was expecting. This book pretty much snuck up on me. It's normally not a "me" book anyway (depressing subject matter = Danielle runs for the hills), and halfway through I wasn't sure where it was going. It's actually quite funny thanks to a snarky narrator, but it seemed almost aimless. Somewhere alo
Wow. What a powerful and painful and beautiful book, though not at all in the way I was expecting.
The heart and soul of this book are its characters, and I ended up caring for them so much.
I never felt like all hope was lost, which I greatly needed.The book begins with two teenagers meeting because they agree to be suicide partners.
Asyel (her name rhymes with gazelle) and Roman are suffering for very different reasons, but their pain looks the same.
My Heart and Other Black Holes is morbid and painful - and so important of a message - but it's also hopeful and wonderfully told.
A heartfelt look at depression and loneliness, My Heart and Other Black Holes is surprisingly brilliant, and not at all as preachy as other mental illness fiction can get.
★★★★★★★★☆☆[8/10]⏩Three things that made me want to pick this book from the three score books I had managed to adorn my library with, in the recent major-bookhaul.  “This must be a sign from the universe-if the only time you get lucky is when you're planning your suicide, it's definitely time to go.” ✅  PHYSICS  . (Notice that it is underlined and italicised and emboldened.) There is a good deal of Physics stuff in the story and I was surprised to find how easy Einstein's Relativity theories were
“I'm a little weirded out that FrozenRobot aka Roman wants to meet in such a public place.
(hide spoiler)] Going by the golden rule that the authors don't write about depressing stuff unless there is a pressing need to bring our attention to that particular stuff, I decide to overlook the nimiety of suicide themed stories in the YA world- All the Bright Places and Thirteen Reasons Why, for instance.
“I once read in my physics book that the universe begs to be observed, that energy travels and transfers when people pay attention.
I'll list them below in a spoiler section.(view spoiler)[I'm not an expert on depression, but I felt like the ending was a bit happy-go-lucky for what the tone had been earlier in the book.
I think the ending sort of trivialized how hard it is to get over depression, especially for a character like Aysel who had been struggling with it for years.I also didn't like how the characters both had extremely terrible backstories.
I don't have an issue with the backstories themselves, more that they implied you have to have some terrible reason as to why you're depressed.
★★★★" Depression is like a heaviness that you can’t ever escape.
I was too dark, my eyes were too big, I looked too much like my mother and I was going to be a failure like her, I was stupid and it goes on and on.
I found that the less I cared about what people thought about me and the more I accepted who I was, then the less painful these comments would be.
Yeah people suck, especially those closest to you.
And to imagine poor Aysel, who had it worse.
(Yeah people really suck!)It was really hard reading this because I hate crying.
Aysel has been depressed for years, and has no hope for a better future after her father is sent to prison, leaving her to live with a mother who wants nothing to do with her, two half siblings, and her stepfather.
Aysel often refers to her depression as a black slug, soaking up her happiness and leaving her empty inside.
And I'm pretty sure Roman is in love with him, too.
Or maybe it's a love triangle gone right: we both get the guy on April 7."Roman does not save Aysel.
Falling in love does not save Aysel.
"My teacher, Mrs. Marks, makes this big production out of trying to decode what the poets were saying.From my perspective, it’s pretty clear:I’m depressed and I want to die. It’s painful to watch all my classmates tear apart each line, looking for the significance. There’s no significance.Anyone who has actually been that sad can tell you that there’s nothing beautiful or literary or mysterious about depression."  Very unique and interesting book with great and relatable characters.This is a v
"My teacher, Mrs. Marks, makes this big production out of trying to decode what the poets were saying.From my perspective, it’s pretty clear:I’m depressed and I want to die.
It’s painful to watch all my classmates tear apart each line, looking for the significance.
There’s no significance.Anyone who has actually been that sad can tell you that there’s nothing beautiful or literary or mysterious about depression."
