https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41014505-the-bronze-horseman
I guess Paullina Simmons must have done a lot of research about Leningrad and wrote her book with a map of the city nearby, but this is not the kind of detail that adds to the story!The next blow comes when we learn that Alexander (Oh my!) is the man Tatiana’s sister Dasha is madly in love (and sleeps on regular basis) with.
Which would be OK I guess (every epic love story has to have some kind of obstacle for lovers to overcome) if we don’t learn later that Dasha is a self-centered tramp who also physically abuses Tatiana.
You want SO BADLY for things to work out for them!The story basically follows Tatiana, a 17 year old Russian girl from Lenningrad, who on the day that WW2 started in their area, meets Alexander, a 22 year old soldier in the Red Army with a secret past that could be very dangerous for him and anyone around him if it got out.
When Tatiana and Alexander eventually get married, they have a beautiful month long hot hot hot 70+ page honeymoon (this IS a romance story after all despite the tragic setting) ...
If you want an EPIC love story with wonderful characters and beautiful writing, this is the book for you.
The story follows ALEXANDER and TATIANA, their life and their love.

I don't really know how I feel about the way Tatiana's sister - Dasha - was portrayed.
The solution: hot soldier boy is already dating her sister!Step 2: We all know that women who get it on with their sister's boyfriends have a very special level of hell reserved for them, so Dasha must be portrayed in a way that will make us forgive Tatiana for her relationship with Alexander.
I felt like Dasha was only a bitch to justify poor, innocent Tatiana's actions.
“At the start of war, on June 22, 1941, the day Alexander met Tatiana, there were three million civilians in Leningrad. When the Germans blockaded the city on September 8, 1941, there were two and a half million civilians in Leningrad. In the spring of 1942 a million people remained.”  This is a historical romance that takes place during World War II in Leningrad, Russia, and even though the characters are fictional, the events are very, very real. I'm not going to lie; this was a really hard
Well, the same thing can be said about The Bronze Horseman, and all the negative reviews surrounding their relationship are completely valid.I will also be the first to say that Alexander and Tatiana have an uneven power balance.
My friend Gelisvb and I were talking about this book and Tatiana and Alexander's relationship and she said, “Love makes you renounce things you love and makes you who you are.
I also felt like she just gave up her will to live after finding out that Alexander probably loves Tatiana, and then that information just broke me more.
The story of Alexander and Tatiana is so beautifully told and gripping that I can never put it down once I start.
To think, I nearly passed over this book because I don't usually read historical romances.
I really would have missed out if I had.I don't give many 5-star ratings, but I would have given this book 500 if I could have!
Nothing I could say would do this book justice, it is just that incredible!
If you haven't read it, do it now!
This epic tale of love and loss is a must-read for any romance reader.
LOVE this story!
Never once did Simons denounce any of Alexander’s actions as abusive, violent, or wrong; instead, Tatiana is constantly apologizing for upsetting his husband.
It’s sold as a love story, but the main character is only given this love when she’s behaving like a perfect doll for her husband, following his commands, serving him food, and bending over for him any time he feels the urge to pound her.
Alexander faced no consequences for his actions in this book.
This violence and this abuse is sold as angst and romance.
❝Good-bye, my moonsong and my breath, my white nights and golden days, my fresh water and my fire. Good-bye, and may you find a better life, find comfort again and your breathless smile, and when your beloved face lights up once more at the Western sunrise, be sure what I felt for you was not in vain. Good-bye, and have faith, my Tatiana.❞  Reread (04/13/2017): God, I love this book so much. It's far from perfect but this book and these characters are just so near and dear to my heart. It's be
It's been almost a year since I read The Bronze Horseman the first time and to this day, I still haven't found a love story as great as Tatiana and Alexander's.I don't know what it is but my heart just aches every time I flip through these pages.
I think The Bronze Horseman will always be my favorite love story of all time, and I'll never get tired of reading about the lives of Tatiana and Alexander.
One of the best books I've ever read, so heart wrenching but that's the beauty of it. Tatiana and Alexander's story was truly memorable and amazing.
I never knew how important perfect white teeth could be, that there was such a thing as a slight case of TB, that this many mentions of blueberries could be squeezed into a single book, or that I could ever get bored with/by sex.
On and on it goes for hundreds of pages.
Also, I'm assuming this story was meant to be a love story but 1.
I would dump anyone doing my sister while "falling in love" with me.
This book was horrid, the characters were laughable, and if I never see a blueberry again, it will be too soon.
Same goes for cabbage.
It will have your heart twisted up six ways to Sunday, and then some.
It was surreal.Tatiana and Alexander will be seared into my heart forever.
One of my top 5 books (and trilogies) of ALL TIME, and that is saying something, considering all the books I have read over my many, many, many decades.I went in blind of course and could not have been more awed by what I was reading!Honest to goodness it is just that amazing!!(Thank goodness my library has the trilogy available, but this book is on sale right now on Amazon)
Have you ever loved something so much it made you cry? Have you ever needed someone so bad, you can't sleep at night? Have you ever tried to find the words, but they don't come out right? Haaaave you everrrrrr? This. Right here. Boom. Read it, or miss out on the best hero/heroine combo EVERRRRRRRRRR!*lyrics by Bradi*Sung by Tarryn
1.5 stars. And that .5 is for the historical elements which I found to be the redeeming quality of this book. I SUFFERED through 800 pages (which were unnecessarily drawn out) for nearly a MONTH reading this book with flat characters, a horribly toxic relationship, and a plot that goes in circles. It's been a while since a book has made me this angry. A lengthy video review will be upcoming on my channel. OMFG.
♥ 5 BREATHLESSLY EPIC AND MEMORABLE STARS. ♥  "Love is," she repeated slowly, "when he is hungry and you feed him. Love is knowing when he is hungry.""Love is, to be loved," said Alexander, "in return."  The Bronze Horseman is probably the most EPIC love story I've ever read. There just aren't any words adequate enough to describe how much I loved this book! From the moment I started reading it, I could not put it down until I finished the very last page. And even then, I just HAD to start the s
Tatiana and Alexander's story is so unique and heartbreaking and beautiful, it's no wonder their story is one the most epic one's out there.Filled with love, heartbreak, anguish, hurt, betrayal, laughter and tears, The Bronze Horseman is an unforgettable journey unlike any other romance novel I've ever read.
Not only the war and the awful living circumstances in Leningrad, but Tatiana's own family and Alexander's friend Dimitri prevent them from being together as well.
And I believe in, and hope for, and love Alexander for life.
5 stars is not enough! This was probably the most beautiful, heart stopping, tragically EPIC love stories I’ve ever read. EVER. Talk about FEELING when you read... I felt EVERYTHING reading this story. It took me days to complete, which isn’t my norm, and I was a wreck the entire time. It consumed me. Utterly and completely consumed me. I can’t begin to express how wonderful this book was. I’m not even going to attempt to summarize the story. This story is impossible to review properly. No matte
This was probably the most beautiful, heart stopping, tragically EPIC love stories I’ve ever read.
I felt EVERYTHING reading this story.
It took me days to complete, which isn’t my norm, and I was a wreck the entire time.
I’m not even going to attempt to summarize the story.
Our beautiful Tatiana is seventeen when the war starts, when her life changes forever.
Tatia develops feelings for a soldier named Alexander.
No matter how much they try, Tatia and Alex can’t stay away from one another.
The story- completely unforgettable.
This is a book you have to read for yourself.
Have you ever read a story that made you FEEL SO MUCH, that it felt like it was TOO MUCH - too much longing, too much pain, too much anger, too much love - and you needed breaks from it, while also feeling COMPELLED to keep reading, and you actually thought: "HOW CAN I SURVIVE THIS BOOK?!?!" Have you ever read a story of a love so INTENSE and CONSUMING, that it transcends the pages it is written on and etches itself into your heart?The Bronze Horseman was such a story, for me!
Tatiana starts out the story as the world's biggest martyr & pushover and spends the next 200+ pages sacrificing the guy she loves, her food, and her general well-being so that her sister and family can have what they want and be happy.
Pretty sure the angsty little drama llamas were causing more of their own problems than Hitler was for part of the story.I think my problem was I just wasn’t the biggest fan of Alexander in the end.
"Tania...you and I had only one moment.." said Alexander, "A single moment in time, in your time and mine...one instant, when another life could have still been possible."  This might very well be the most exquisitely-written blend of historical fiction and romance in one book that I have ever read. Dare I even say that this heart-wrenching and beautiful tale has taken over the top spot from Outlander? I know. I can't believe it myself. Both are 5 star books and both will stay on my all time f
I thought wrong.So many people compare The Bronze Horseman to the infamous Outlander series when the only things that the books have in common is that they are lengthy historical fiction books featuring an epic romance.
Granted, I haven't read enough of Tatia and Alexander's tale to think that their love story encompasses the miraculous wonder of Jamie and Claire in Outlander, yet I will say that T&A's (yes, I did giggle as I typed T&A) story is no less engaging or heartfelt.
You will read about people fighting through injuries and deaths of loved ones and holding on after going weeks on end without but a scrap of food.
AMAZING AMAZING AMAZING REVIEW TO COME <3 I'm so jealous, I saw that many of my friends were reading one of the most amazing books I have ever read and I couldn't resist!! Re-reading and I will post a new review!!!
Desgarradora! Terrible, una historia dura y maravillosa a la vez, hasta que entramos en villa felicidad. A partir de ese momento, la historia decae de forma alarmante.
No matter what I write for this book it won't be enough. The bronze horseman is definitely a unique book. Tatiana's and Alexander's love story will take you into an emotional rollercoaster but I dont think that you will regret what you read,at least I didn’t. “A bus came. The soldier turned away from her and walked toward it. Tatiana watched him. Even his walk was from another world; the step was too sure, the stride too long, yet somehow it all seemed right, looked right, felt right. It was lik
Tatiana's and Alexander's love story will take you into an emotional rollercoaster but I dont think that you will regret what you read,at least I didn’t.
This is how their love story begins.Tatiana is a 17 year old Russian girl who has the misfortune to experience war.
Along with war she also meets her only love , Alexander.
Aside all the difficulties they manage to survive , even if that means that they have to separate their lives.In the second book we read how these two young people will try to find the happiness that they both deserve so much.
I had NO IDEA what I was getting into when I started it, I just knew everybody who read it adored it so I was almost certain I would probably be feeling the same way.
BUT MORE THAN ANYTHING I NEVER THOUGHT SO MANY EMOTIONS COULD BE TRAPPED IN A BOOK...This read completely took the floor from under my feet, my heart was being squeezed so harshly that I just couldn't breath normally.
The time and space might not have been the greatest, but that only made the romance stronger because despite everything the main characters went through their love for each other never stopped existing.
SUBLIME. ❤EXTRAORDINARIA. EXCEPCIONAL. GLORIOSA. GRANDIOSA. MARAVILLOSA. BELLÍSIMA. INOLVIDABLE. Todas las estrellas son pocas. Todas las palabras son insuficientes. Todos mis sentimientos son indescriptibles.Y Tatiana... Ay, Tatiana, Tatiana, Tatiana. El alma, el corazón, la esencia de la historia. Qué maravillosa protagonista. ❤
SUBLIME. ❤️EXTRAORDINARIA. EXCEPCIONAL. GLORIOSA. GRANDIOSA. MARAVILLOSA. BELLÍSIMA. INOLVIDABLE. Todas las estrellas son pocas. Todas las palabras son insuficientes. Todos mis sentimientos son indescriptibles.Y Tatiana... Ay, Tatiana, Tatiana, Tatiana. El alma, el corazón, la esencia de la historia. Qué maravillosa protagonista. ❤️
And I soon forgave her because that ignorance caused her path to cross paths with 22yr old Red Army soldier Alexander Belov.He spots her sitting across the street humming and eating her ice cream and so begins THE GREATEST LOVE STORY EVER TOLD!Later that same day Tatiana learns that Alexander, the soldier she is beyond smitten with is the same one her older sister Dasha has fallen in love with.
As the war progresses and makes it way to the borders of Leningrad; we watch the Metanova family go through extreme changes and through it all Alexander remains in their lives through it all.It took for me to read almost half of the book for my dislike for Tatiana to finally dissipate.
BREATHTAKING!It's hard to write a complete review when I'm not yet finished with trilogy, but I will say that I LOVED this book!Alexander and Tatiana are, hands down, the greatest hero and heroine I've come across.
The writing in this book is exquisite.
Alexander and Tania's unyielding love for each other is like no other- rivaling even Romeo and Juliet.
▪	 Genre/Category: Historical Romance▪	 Steam Caliber: Moderate ▪ Romance: Intense/Slight love triangle ▪	 Characters: Strong, sexy, honorable hero.
▪	 Plot: A passionate love story focused on survival and the tragedies of war.
Do you want to know why it outrages me: the characters and the romance.
The problem was that the two main characters were kind of terrible and therefore made the romance and the plot equally unappetizing.
Sure both of the characters have their good moments like when Alexander helps take care of Tatiana's family, but their overall actions made me feel a bit sick.This also effected the plot because most of the book was the two characters running around in circles over each other.
I know romance in books is a bit of a touchy subject, but I just wanted to get my opinion out there.
Purchase -> http://amzn.to/T364Zi5/31/2014~~~~~~~~~~A.M.A.Z.I.N.G Every once in awhile a book enters our life that changes the way we think and feel.Reading this book but felt like watching a WW2 documentary that included a love story.
It's rare when a book can make you reevaluate your life and makes you want to change for the better.
- (view spoiler)[ it's not a true love triangle.
- (view spoiler)[ Book 1 - no.
(hide spoiler)](view spoiler)[ That would be sad if this was the last book like the author had originally planned but instead the author carried on their story.
(view spoiler)[Cómo es posible que sabiendo lo que Tatiana sentía por él, mantuviera una relación con su hermana delante de sus narices, sólo para tenerla cerca.
Cómo es posible que sabiendo los riesgos a los que la exponía, le pidiera matrimonio, hiciera el amor con ella como conejos, a sabiendas que después la abandonaría al volver a la guerra, para no tener la preocupación de que ella estuviera en peligro, sin importarle sus sentimientos.
NOTE: I have not read this book. I will never read this book. My friend Whitney (WhittyNovels) has been posting excerpts of this book on Twitter and I'm absolutely shocked and disgusted by what I've seen. There is no way to misconstrue these passages. The cover of this book proudly boasts that it's a love story and none of what I have seen has even a modicum of romance. What I've seen has left me feeling sick. TW: rape, toxic relationships, mental and physical abuse, and probably much morehttps://twitter.com/whittynovels/stat...
Okay, I'm sure you've seen it all before and you've maybe read a few reviews or at least a comment here or there...I think it's impossible to not have heard of this book somewhere.
Anyway, back to convincing you...If you love epic love stories ~ something substantial, something with some meat on it, something that will bring you to the highest of highs and something that will drag you through the lowest of lows, something that has you smiling, something that has you crying and just something that makes you feel good...this is the story for you.Need more?
Most of the book is in Tatiana's POV but we do get a few chapters here and there from Alexander...and that is a wonderful bonus!
