https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20286.Under_Pressure
Description: Twenty subtugs had been lost in the attempt to bring back oil from the undersea fields on the enemy's borders.
A brilliant psychologist-electronics expert is planted in the crew of the subtug Ram to find out what is happening.
I love the premise here - nicking oil from the enemy's fields under the sea.
3.5*□ □ □ □ □ □ □ No, not that Captain Sparrow, but any excuse...□ □ □ □ □ □ □From wiki: The Dragon in the Sea (1956), also known as Under Pressure from its serialization, is a novel by Frank Herbert.
This book was so very Herbert, he hits the ground running with an amazing amount of world building and data compressed into every page while explaining nothing to the reader directly, but through poetry of words implying everything you need, such as magna-boots, plasteel, and diffusion rates. Military cat and mouse books are not my usual "thing" but I did enjoy the conclussions and normal deep looks at society, pyschology, and perceptions.
In short, it turns this book into more of tract than a novel, and there are a lot of elements that slow it down in ways that are, these days, difficult to plow through.The science fiction elements of the story are muted by the psycho-theological musings, but they do appear throughout the piece.
As a whole, however, the book is clearly an early work and it suffers in terms of its time in ways that make it unnecessary for most readers.
I just finished reviewing Peter Maas's The Terrible Hours, and thought of this book for the first time in years... another quite decent submarine story. It's not the best thing Herbert wrote, but compares very favorably with the later volumes in the Dune saga; I also preferred it to the (in my humble opinion) overrated Hunt for Red October. Worth a look if you like tales of the sea.
...Herbert's first novel shows a lot of elements that he would return to in his later work.
It is not as complex or conceptually rich as Dune or The Dosadi Experiment but it is certainly a novel that is still well worth reading.
It's fairly short but very intense and more action packed than many of his later novels.
Quite a few later novels by Herbert don't hold up as well as The Dragon in the Sea does.
One warning though, if you do decide to read it try not to think too much of the unfortunate choice of name for the Captain.
Putting it baldly like this makes it easier to see the technical difficulties which are skated over - and skilfully hidden from the reader - in the longer explanations in the novel itself.After some initial success, things have begun to go wrong, until there have been twenty missions in a row that have failed.
This is partly because the Easterners have to some extent caught on to what is going on, and partly because of infiltration of submarine bases and crews by carefully hidden sleepers, not yet active spies and saboteurs.The hitherto most successful crew has been in port for some time.
This book was local author Frank Herbert's first and is on a list of Defining Science Fiction books of the 50s.
It is set in the near future of an ongoing world war between West and East, where oil is scarce and some targets (including the British Isles) are uninhabitable due to nuclear fallout.I love a good sub war book, and this reminded me of The Hunt for Red October.
The author served in the navy as a photographer.This is also the first book I've read by Frank Herbert, as I somehow missed reading the Dune series as a kid.
Last night I finished reading Dragon in the Sea by Frank Herbert (1956).
Dragon in the Sea is quite a departure from Dune.
It's more akin to The Santaroga Barrier (my favorite Herbert book) in Herbert starts with a few ordinary events and then turns them into psychological dramas.
For this book, he goes one step further and leaves off the chapter divisions to create a literary claustrophobia to match the claustrophobic conditions of the submarine.
Some of the psychobabble to explain the captain's behavior was a bit silly but I'll forgive it for the otherwise enjoyable thriller with science fiction trappings.
The entire book made me super, super uncomfortable. Ugh. Submarines. *shudders*
It was okay.
I didn't understand this book as well as I would have liked.
I feel like I need the Cliff notes to help me.
Why was psych so sure insanity was an issue when they were pirating oil from deep in enemy territory?
What was this war even about and who was the enemy, specifically?
I didn't understand the Ramsey character at all, especially in the last 10% of the book.I guess if I want to read submarine novels I either need to go back further (I liked Jules Verne) or later than 1956.
4 stars.
This is a story of a submarine crew on a mission to steal crude oil from their enemy (the Eastern Powers).
Also I was not a fan of all the amateur psychology which is a large part of this story.
Because of this I was only going to give it 3 stars.
However when you consider when it was written the authors vision that a war over oil will be fought is the future is actually really relevant today.
Additionally the concept that psychology would be an important part of the health of the combatants was really revolutionary.
This is a quasi post apocalyptic world, dominated by the military fighting what seems to be an endless war, fought under the sea by the blind dragons of nuclear powered submarines crewed by men suffering from the paranoia of having to always suspect everyone.
The crew's sanity is under constant examination in every chapter.The book is an exploration in the psychology of human stress (pressure) under extreme conditions where the breaking point of each character is tested.
The world the men inhabit is realistic and consistent.
Mais des différences subsistent : les personnages ont ici plus de consistance et les seconds rôles sont moins des ombres que dans Destination Vide , et le psy est moins un démiurge qu’un membre normal de l’équipage, qui a certes son lot de secret.Malgré tout, ça reste un livre de Herbert avec tout ce que ça implique : son écriture assez lourde, une absence quasi totale de sentiments avec une réduction asssez incroyable des individus au niveau de machines vivantes (notamment pour le capitaine, Sparrow qui se définit lui-même comme une pièce du sous-marin).En fait, ce livre est à mon goût assez moyen : on ressent très mal dans la plume de Herbert la pression, constante, du milieu extérieur.
The West has been sending subtugs (specialized submarines) to smuggle oil from the East, but the last twenty missions have failed.
Security knows that the East has a lot of sleeper agents among their ranks, so they assign John Ramsey, who specializes in psychology and electronics, aboard the next mission in order to uncover the sleeper agent.There are four men aboard the subtug, and since one of them is Ramsey, his search seems pretty simple.
The crew discovers a dead man aboard the subtug — was he a sleeper agent or the victim of one?
(How many sleeper agents does the East ...
An early effort by Frank Herbert, with an interesting premise but some weakness in execution. The premise is America is sending submarines to pilfer oil from undersea wells in Russian territory. There were very good cat and mouse bits as they evaded enemy detection. But a couple scenes had so much detail about the layout of the submarine it lost narrative focus..It would have worked better as a tight short story.
Started the book knowing nothing about it other than the author's sci-fi cred. I kept waiting for the dragon to come. Possible spoiler: there is no dragon. It was like waiting for boats in Watership Down.
The conflict between Eastern and Western powers continues into the 21st century, with the latter group having run dangerously low on its oil reserves.
So they try to sneak oil from secret underwater oil wells in Eastern territory with submarines.
Joe Ramsey works for BuPsych and is tasked with posing as an electronics officer in the Ram to figure out what the issue is.
The book seemed to drag in places and the ending was pretty weak (Ramsey sees his wife again and is tasked with "one more" mission that we don’t see).
Ramsey isn't just there to uncover a spy, but also to figure out what makes the extraordinary captain of the sub tick.OVERALL: 2.6 out of 5The most remarkable thing about this book is that Frank Herbert must have had the idea right after the USS Nautilus (the first nuclear-powered submarine) was "launched" in 1954 but not completed or underway until 1955.
A revolutionary novel, fore-seeing nuclear submarines and a struggle for oil.
I expected nothing less from one of the fathers of sci-fi Frank Herbert.
Although I have to say that towards the end, the novel became a little surreal with his use of a lot of jargons and slangs which, I admit, in trying to make the feel of the characters in the submarine authentic, I somehow had to struggle to understand.
Some have compared this novel to Jules Verne's 20000 Leagues Under the Sea, but it is an entirely different novel, one with an added factor of psychology, which was what made it intriguing.
Highly recommended to all Frank Herbert fans out there.
Reading a book of medium length and being able to only rate it 3 stars is always a disappointing feeling, because it means I wasn't able to find in it nothing that I either loved nor hated.
While enjoyable throughout, this dive into the lives of four submariners, their fears and paranoias, ended up being painfully average.
The only major criticism I can move towards it is that the characters of Garcia and Bonnett weren't distinct enough, so much that even now, besides a few key plot elements, I can hardly recall which one did what.
Unlike the two main characters, they were very monodimensional.
Psychological military thriller heavy on the psychology. There's a spy on a submarine so Security sends in a ringer to ferret him out. There's sabotage, murder, hiding from the enemy, mechanical breakdown, emotional breakdown, all the favorites. Mostly it's a study of how men react under pressure, specifically military men in active warfare. How they become functionally psychotic, shutting down their emotional sides and acting like machines when necessary. Good story, lots of 1950's future tech, very similar to the 1942 novella "Nerves" by Lester del Rey. Same tone as "Run Silent, Run Deep" and "Operation Tokyo."
(I mean, half the movie Batman Begins is set-up for becoming Batman, and I wasn't bored by that.) I think what made it boring was that I just didn't care for Ramsey, the main character.
I think the story itself ended well (as far as how everything turned out), but the last five pages were so boring.
Now I want to re-read those and see what I think of the writing, rather than just the story.
I didn't like Ramsey so much, but once he was in close quarters with these three other guys in the subtug, things became much more interesting.
Apparently I am not qualified to read this book, having no prior naval training. I can mostly sort of glean what's going on, but without gut knowledge of naval jargon and the working of nuclear submarines, a lot of key details are lost, and with Herbert's extreme subtlety and minimal description that really makes a difference.
Hard to review as I read it so long ago my memory is a bit hazy.Young kid me thought it was awesome, adult me might find it pretty dated and hackish. Still, the imagination and tension have stayed with me for a long time, that has to be worth something.
Herbert shows remarkable competence at narrating an adventure entirely set inside a small sub marine, a Hell Diver.
The thought gave Ramsey a tug of possessive fondness for Bonnett, an emotion touched by nostalgia at the thought of separation.Truly like brothers, he thought.>> I am a navy person at heart, so I melted a little when I read that.
You ride the wave instead of bucking it." >>So, read this book if you like navy stories (especially submarine stories).
Read this book if you like war stories (especially cold war).
A good science fictionalized psychological examination of a small group of men in confined quarters, under combat conditions, with paranoia setting in. Definitely a Cold War piece.
A good psychological thriller, rather than, a science fiction story. However, a good, quick entertaining read.
Sheol se estira como un sinvergüenza bajo "El Dragón en el Mar", una obra del autor de #Dune, Frank Herbert. Bien escrita, pero falta de emoción e interés por sus personajes.
This story wasn't too bad and would have rated it three stars until I tried to read the last 20 or so pages. Too much much psychoanalysis.
Story about sub(marine) tugs. Couldn't put it down! Short and sweet!
