https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/370964.Hay_Fever
Many of the same themes and circumstances of Relative Values but missing some of the charm.
3.5*While I enjoyed this full cast audiobook of the play, I didn't find it as funny as I expected. Perhaps it needed the visual aspect - I will have to see if I can find a video or film of this online somewhere.
Interesting as a period piece, but the voices of the actors in this LATW performance were too harsh for my ears. Piercing, I think would work for the women's voices. Projection isn't as necessary for radio, but the audience changed the timbre, I'm sure. I listened twice, for context, but Blithe Spirit is much better.
I really ought to read - or listen to - one good English comedy for each American shoot’em up that I read. Not everyone goes wildly angry in the world; these English characters can communicate even when they disagree. I understand that Noel Coward wrote their lines, but too often, Mickey Spillane wrote ours.
The cast of characters is introduced rather quickly in the first act, and all the action takes place in a crowded hallway of a manor house.
None of the guests is known to any of the family other than the inviter.
Act 2 tries to help things along by having everyone play a parlor game called “Adverbs.” It’s a simple game, once you get the feel of it, but you immediately start running into personalities.
All of the characters are affected by building relationships with either the person who had invited them, or, by some other member of the family.
The problem with Hay Fever seems, for many, to be the first encounter with the piece.
My first encounter with the play was the BBC adaptation from long ago and I quickly found my attention drifting - characters introduced too quickly and too many at a time to fully focus on the developing plot.
However, years later I am revisiting the play by reading the original text and the result is much more desirable.
The Blisses are a fascinating theatrical family, "self-centred egotists" and far from perfect.
Their bickering is horrifying and entertaining, Coward's reflection on an empty and disillusioned society is an interesting read.
Love this, I have to re read it every once in awhile. I first saw it in a 1977 college production when my sister played Jackie. I've since seen it professionally in Los Angeles and London, and I swear the first one was as good or better. (different laughs on some lines with the British audience, found that interesting)
I read this for ENGL 100 and I actually liked it!! I thought it was pretty funny and my favourite part would have to be the adverb game scene where Richard mistakenly acts out the word "saucily" instead of "winsomely." I'm not a big fan of required readings for school but I definitely recommend this and it only takes about an hour to read!!

The Bliss family is taking some time off in the country and three visitors arrive. Author husband David, actress wife Judith and their children are theatrical to the extreme. Overreacting to small compliments and the end driving their guests away. This play had all the elements I don't care for - squabbling family, set in a living room, and ending with more squabbling. Coward's genius is that he mixes these tired elements into a situation that had me laughing to the end. Strongly recommend
What an absolute riot of a play... Extremely well composed, it's like the math of chaos - something that is geometrically precise but the results are pretty well unpredictable. The way the author mixes these characters, and matches them up multiple times in different ways across the play to create a whole whirlwind of a picture is a sight to behold. And so typical English, so typical West End - in a good way ;)
The ridiculous antics in a country house comedy of errors would be a delight to see on stage: everyone is horrible and entertaining, but the characters bring such frustrating amusement to an otherwise thin plot.
realllllly good dialogue. funny without resorting to cheap one-liners. dream role: simon
Light, frothy play, full of absurd theatricality. Great fun to read or see the Blisses - but it would be horrible to actually know them.
Dull opening act of scene setting, but a very strong second half after the scene is set. It's of the same era and style as The Importance of Being Earnest in a lot of ways... it's just not quite as good.
Lots of mixups and mayhem, but it just wasn't really my style.
I didn't particularly like any of the characters; they all seemed very similar to me (I even got them confused a lot).
But I got pretty bored reading it and had to force myself to finish it.Brief summary: (view spoiler)[A bunch of family members all invite their romantic interests to their house on the same day, unbeknownst to the other members.
They all find out and get upset and insult each other and each other's lovers a lot.
Eventually, they all switch lovers.
(hide spoiler)]
Not my favourite, but still perhaps his best. Incredibly difficult to perform, absolutely side-splittingly funny when done right, and likely to endure for another century at least.Myra: It's heavenly here -- after London! The heat was terrible when I left. You look awfully well, Judith. Rusticating obviously agrees with you.Judith: I'm glad you think so. Personally, I feel that a nervous breakdown is imminent.Myra: My dear, how ghastly! What's the matter?Judith: Nothing's the matter yet, Myra, but I have presentiments.
Well, I think this may have been the weakest of the three plays in the collection, perhaps because it follows a typical comedy of errors with a family each having a lover and all of the lovers switching and also getting a bit fed up with the self absorbed aristocratic family. This would probably make for a hysterical play when performed but it's easy to get annoyed with its predictability while reading it.
One of the two Noël Coward's comedies I best like (the other one is Blythe spirit).I have watched this comedy represented once in Spanish translation (under the title La encantadora familia Bliss) and three times in the original English, plus having read the Spanish translation another four times (at least), and it never fails to make me laugh.
Another madcap comedy! I am a fan of Noel Coward, no doubt, but my one true love is still Oscar Wilde.A riotously crazy family gathers in the countryside and unbeknownst to the others, each family member invites a guest to stay for the weekend. The guests have designs on varying family members, the family members have designs on various guests, the weather doesn't cooperate and chaos ensues.
As with other plays by Noel Coward, it's fun to read if you like very light comedy, but for my taste it's too much lacking in any kind of critical import. Its humour is a bit out-of-date and it is relying heavily on the upper class social conventions of the 1920s what with all the summer residence airs, cocktails and jeunesse blasé smugness. Most of it I find annoying rather than funny.
OH MY GOD What a boring play. No plot except "this crazy family drives all their guests away by pretending to be madly in love with them, which drives the guests into each others' arms." And in the most awful, contrived ways. This play can eat my entire ass. The characters would be decent in an actual plot setting, but JEEZZZUZ.
This play has great pairing for fun scenes for any good ensemble, but the plot is very simple, even for Noel Coward, and I was left with the feeling of "I've read this story before, with different characters."
More puzzling than riotous. A demented portrait of a Bohemian family that exchanges romantic partners as casually as socks. Terribly interesting, but I'll need a stage production in order to truly envision it.
Such a fun romp! Glad it was picked as our fall play for 2014; will be such a different experience for our tech students and actors. Nobody does British comedy like Coward. Darling, I must go now drink and smoke like my life depends on it. Join me? Smashing.
I should probably be rating this when I'm in less of a crappy mood, but I didn't enjoy this at all. It took forever to get through, the characters were terrible people, and the story was just not entertaining.
I read this play for a class in high school and then went to see it on Broadway. I remember thinking it was dated and not easily related to by a 17 year old, but then I enjoyed the stage production.
Read this for my book challenge this year under "plays." I'm sure it is better onstage rather than read. Opportunity for a few laughs, but a pretty thin plot. I read Coward wrote this in three days and it shows.
Nöel Coward wrote this comedy of manners in 1924. An eccentric and outlandish family has a country house and they invite guests to spend a weekend there. Their lifestyle is so over-the-top theatrical that their guests flee like the wind. This one has become my new favorite Noel Coward's play!
Funny. Saw the play at the Noel Coward Theater in S'12
