https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12021.The_Crow_Road
This is a re-read for me, I first read this a long time ago but I loved returning to it.
Iain Banks has a imaginative and distinctive storytelling approach, offbeat characters and unusual, curious scenarios that cannot fail to capture a reader's interest.
There is a strong sense of the Scottish location in the tale of Prentice McHoan, a larger than life character.
Prentice becomes intrigued with the disappearance of his Uncle Rory at the time he was working on The Crow Road.
Banks looks at memory, the broad issues of all it is to be human, family and the circle of life and death itself.
I was enjoying the hell out of this book right up until, near the end, it decided without warning to become a murder mystery. That section felt so out of place with the rest of this meandering, detailed meditation on death and growing up.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Banks keeps up the brilliance for another 500 pages, drawing you in to the story of three Scottish families with a complicated, interlocked history.
Young Prentice McHoan is a pretty irresistible first person narrator, so that it's a pleasure to accompany him as he navigates his last year at college, trying to come to terms with his various preoccupations: death, drink, sex, God, illegal substances, and whatever happened to Uncle Rory (who disappeared a decade earlier).
Also, Banks alternates between Prentice's first-person narrative and an 'omniscient third-person' narrator, with frequent switches of timeframe across the generations.
The story is told mainly by Prentice McHoan who having returned to Scotland is reunited with his very different and complex family. Prentice tells tales of the family past, present and future all the time being preoccupied with: mainly death, sex, drink, God and illegal substances.This is an entertaining read and full of humorous stories.I would like to thank Net Galley and Little, Brown Book Group UK for supplying a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
I sat in the crematorium, listening to my Uncle Hamish quietly snoring in harmony to Bach's Mass in B Minor, and I reflected that it always seemed to be death that drew me back to Gallanach.The Crow Road is the first novel by Iain Banks that I've read, and it has one of the best and irresistible opening hooks ever - it quite literally begins with a bang (get it?).
It's so easy to choose this famous opening line for starting a review of Crow Road, and therein lies the danger of focusing only on the sarcasm, the tongue-in-cheek, flippant running commentary provided by Prentice McHoan on the history of his family and on his own growing up process, as angsty and self-conscious and annoying as only smartypants teenagers can be.
The older Prentice was a bit too morbid and clueless about girls for my taste, but this comes possibly from some uncomfortable memories of not acting much better when I was his age.
I sat in the crematorium, listening to my Uncle Hamish quietly snoring in harmony to Bach's Mass in B minor and reflected that it was always death that brought me back to Gallanach.The Crow Road is the first book I have read by the author, Iain Banks.
I could not make my mind up if this book was a family drama or a murder mystery.
There are a lot of characters but they all have have a part to play.I would like to thank NetGalley, Little Brown Book Group.
UK and the author Iain Banks for my ARC in exchange for an honest review.
Which, to Banks' credit, he recognized and handled well with interjections of third person narrative focused on the elder generation, thus giving us respite from the little jerk until Prentice developed into a genuinely likable guy.Paradoxically, though, The Crow Road also includes my favourite supporting character in all of Banks' books, Prentice's father, Kenneth McHoan.
The trouble for Banks is that his best books -- the dark and sinister or the challenging or the ferociously creative -- are books that most people don't want to read and many who do read them just don't connect with them.
I really cannot stand books that have characters I don't care about.
I could care less about their issues as well.
I read this book because it's on the 1001 books list and I have never read anything by Iain Banks before - and I wasn't missing anything.
The reviews for this book were great - so I was very disappointed in it's lack of eh - everything!
It seems like when the story is seriously lulling Banks just throws in oh and we did drugs and oh someone else dies.
The one thing I did like was laughing about how it semi-tries to be a murder mystery?
Every time I go through the process of selecting the next book to read, and one of his comes up, I wonder, hmmm...should I now?
Or should I put this off until I'm ready; for a special time perhaps.The thing is, Iain Banks is a very special writer.
Almost always, there is a payoff that makes all the wondering of where he's is going worthwhile.Take Walking on Glass, for example.
But Banks is such a pleasure to read, and building a storyline through these layers reminds me how much fun reading can be, regardless of the end result.So, upon finishing it, I was set on giving The Crow Road three stars.
This book is written in a very non-linear style which made it very difficult to comprehend what was going on at the beginning. Once I understood the rhythm of the narrative what developed was a very well written, interesting story of a family in Scotland. Banks did an excellent job with characterization, not only in defining them but making me really care what happened to them. This is a slower paced book that kept my interest to the end and actually left me wanting more. Highly recommend.
I can't say enough good things about Iain Banks's The Crow Road.
My only question is, why didn't I hear of him and read his work sooner?
The result is a brilliant novel - grim, gritty, but funny and somehow uplifting without being cheesy.
It shouldn't make me feel good to read it - it should be depressing as hell, self-defeating, sick on its own self-indulgence.
And it should annoy me that the novel doesn't give any answers, but I think to answer the questions - about religion vs.
I want to read everything else Banks has written.
It's kind of hard to describe this novel, and to give it a review: so much happens, and so little is definable by the traditional standards by which we measure books.
I mean, was it enjoyable?
Yes. Was it well written?
Yes. Was it un-put-down-able?
For me, especially by the end, yes.
I would thoroughly recommend this to everyone, with a small warning that there is some (though not much and not indeciphrable) Scottish dialect in there, and that there's some time jumping, which can at first be confusing, but which all comes together neatly by the end.
_________________________________________(Gratuitous cross-promotion)I wrote this minimalist review as a protest against notgettingenough's intolerably wordy screeds. For example, look at her recent review of Jeremy Clarkson. I mean don't. Don't!
Dos tercios de su extensión en los cuales se alternan capítulos en primera persona donde su protagonista, Prentice, relata su enfrentamiento con su padre, el vacío dejado hace unos años por la desaparición de su tío, su enamoramiento de una prima...
Un auténtico dolor de cabeza en una posible traducción.Prentice se antoja un mamón de campeonato a falta de veinte veranos, pero su forma de ser y cómo se explica a sí mismo es otra de las cualidades de The Crow Road.
Una muerte omnipresente a lo largo de toda la historia a modo de gran hilo conductor.Donde la novela termina descarrilando un poco es cuando se alcanza el momento en que Prentice se convierte en su único narrador.
As well as The Crow Road being essentially a murder/mystery, a different take on crime fiction in many ways, it contains the trial and tribulations of three generations of two related Scottish Families, whom live on the Western Coast of Scotland, containing a snapshot of society from the 1940s to the (then) present (being 1991).
It is a good novel, published in 1992 and was later adapted as a Television Drama in 1996.
Iain Banks can really empathetically describe both generational differences, the epoch he bases his book in, cultural norms and the most vivid description of the Western Coast of Scotland in all its beauty.
A good read.
The first is on page 25, “These were the days of fond promise, when the world was very small and there was still magic in it.
A season was a decade, and every year a life.”The second was the incredible discussion on the meaning of life and death on page 484.“Was Fergus Urvill anywhere still?
Death was change; it led to new chances, new vacancies, new niches and opportunities; it was not all loss.”And this well thought out discussion continued into the next paragraph.But I did not enjoy reading 501 pages to find these two small gems.
There are many ways to write a merely good novel, but I've read few great ones--novels with truly compelling plots--that don't make their emotional impact by pummeling their main characters until their lives just can't seem to get any worse, and then somehow finding that bit left to destroy.
Halfway through the book, main character Prentice has watched his romantic interests thwarted by those who are supposed to be closest to him, painfully embarrassed himself in front of his entire family, is trapped by his own stubbornness into a painful falling out with his father, has just lost his the last writings of his long-missing uncle Rory, is broke, and is failing school.
So this book was recommended to me more than a decade ago along with The Wasp Factory.
And I realize I’m in the minority in the ratings for this book, but I continued on, trying to capture the hubbub I’d heard about this book.
But all I got from it was boredom.
I frequently lost the plot because there wasn’t one.
There was a load of hubbub about the opening sentence of this book and unfortunately that was likely the best sentence in the book.
More boredom.
Uh...this review is getting to be like the book.
No plot.
Ta spousta bizarních situací, které si dokáže Banks vymyslet, nebere konců - od úvodní exploze babičky, přes Kennethovu smrt úderem blesku na střeše kostela a konče třeba Fergusovým posledním leteckým výletem, to všechno dotváří skvělou mozaiku příběhu.Paradoxně o takovýchto knihách se píše nejhůř - základní dějovou linii neustále rozbíjí řada historek a až z kontextu všech těchto různorodých částeček vyvstane finální obraz - prostě jako v životě.Takže pro mě byl tohle určitě velký zážitek a počítám, že se k Banksovi zase brzo vrátím.Kontext: Byl státní svátek (Den práce), takže trochu víc času na čtení - proto to šlo tak rychle.
It takes us through the college years of Prentice McHoan, concentrating on how he experiences and relates to his family (immediate and extended), friends, romantic interests and also the world at large and the question of the existence of God. So clearly a bildungsroman, yet it doesn't have the feel I often associate with that type of work.
The choices in stories concerning the different characters are wonderful - they are entertaining, grab you quickly, make you want to know more, vividly illustrate the characters' personalities, and as you discover later, also combine to move the plot forward.
I really feel this was masterfully written.
As I wait for my tagine, I’m wondering what those who like to divide writing up by quality where literature is ‘best’ call Banks?
Banks does like the reader to know what’s going on all the way and consequently from the very first moment we meet Ashley we know she is the one.
A step up of sorts, methinks you think and boys read Banks and – well, it’s different, isn’t it?
I’m asking the people who like to divide things up this way.* * * * And as your tears fall, in light too dim to see cabbage or tears, you think what a prat you are.
Maybe I'm a bit pretentious myself, not unlike yer man Prentice McHoan!) Having just finished The Crow Road, I can state with some confidence that I think I've found my book.Just imagine my delight and deepening surprise as I turned the pages of this wonderful novel to find I more than just understood the main character of Prentice, I felt like his life mirrored my own in many ways.
I became so embroiled in this story I found myself belting out big, uproarious laughs at the dry, Scots humour (one character being described as having a 'big baw face' drew a particularly loud one), caring deeply for Prentice's irrevocably misguided and selfish 'love' for Verity, and actually gasping at the sinister revelations towards the end of the book.
I don't know if I'm the only creep who follows snarky, funny and poignant reviews by absolute strangers (who mostly wouldn't know I'm following their reviews) and then religiously track down their favourite books, or be tempted into reading a book they've reviewed - books I'm sure I would never have even heard of in my own life, had it not been for Goodreads and the people I follow.So for this passive recommendation, I have one person to thank.
For bringing in a bliss unparalleled in just witnessing a narrative that was so quaint, hearty, humourous and intense in the ways you'd like to pick up at any mood/phase in life.
1 of 25 books bought today for $10 (the lot).Really looking forward to starting this one, but have to finish a few others first. (understatement!)
There is something I don’t really understand that attracts me towards his novels. I am never sure I like them as I am reading them, but I always feel a certain feeling of satisfaction when I mull them over after finishing. 'The Crow Road' is no exception to this. It is yet another of Banks’s novels with multiple layers. It’s about family, about growing up, about coming of age, and there is a murder mystery thrown in for good measure. The murder mystery, of course, is the least important part. Four solid stars.
In order of appearance, more or less, they are Uncle Hamish, who is possessed of several peculiar ideas about religion and how one's life is tallied up after death; Prentice's father Kenneth, a devout atheist who Prentice is currently not speaking to over religious differences; Prentice's little brother James, who spends most of the novel in Australia and doesn't appear to do much worth mentioning in the novel other than being moody and listening to his Walkman; Prentice's mother Mary, who is generally warm and loving and motherly; Aunt Ilsa the world traveler, Uncle Rory who rode off on a stolen motorcycle years ago and hasn't been heard from since, Prentice's older, and if you ask Prentice smarter, funnier, and all-around better, brother Lewis; Uncle Fergus, the widow of Prentice's Aunt Fiona and father of twins, he is also the richest and most powerful man in town and the uncle of Verity whose beauty is matched only by her poor taste in men and who has won Prentice's heart.
If not zeitgeist, then it felt like a book of its time - something that just needed to exist, even if Banks himself hadn't written it.The Crow Road is a return to form.
For me Banks lost his way a little after the Wasp Factory, as if trying to recapture the brilliance of the first book, while at the same time growing as a writer.
Canal Dreams, as Banks admits himself, was a low point - an effort to write a novel that was something, a political thriller, rather than be about something.
Except then that feeling continues past the first page and past the first few chapters and through to much of the novel, and you still really don't know what's going to tie it all together, or if it's going to get tied together at all, but you don't care because the whole thing somehow manages to stay utterly engrossing.The main character is one Prentice McHoan, a young man dealing with many of the issues that young men do - love, religion, drugs, sex, school, and a family that is perhaps more than usually disfunctional.
Woven throughout this main narrative, however, are flashbacks to earlier points in Prentice's life, and to episodes in the history of the family, going back a number of decades.
I was reading 'The Crow Road' on Peterborough station when a random man asked me whether I'd read The Wasp Factory.
My experiences with Ian Banks novels have varied wildly.
I enjoyed 'The Crow Road', a family saga with a mystery in the last few chapters.
The McHoan family experience a great deal more drama than mine is accustomed to, but this is told in a naturalistic manner so doesn't seem excessive or forced.
I did wonder how normal it was that the whole family drank such a lot, though.
Although this isn't my favourite Banks novel (currently Transition), it's definitely one that I appreciated.
