https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29588376-the-lies-of-locke-lamora
The sentiment was mostly along the lines of "Pat Rothfuss is the next Scott Lynch!" Here's the thing, Lies of Lock Lamora had come out almost exactly a year before my first book, The Name of the Wind.
I saw that it was a clever book, and gritty, with a cool world.
Right now, in the full flush of this second reading, I think Lies is probably in e in my top ten favorite books ever.
That said, here's the things that The Lies of Locke Lamora does better than The Name of the Wind.
What if the character went to the Mel Gibson school of Masochism, requiring he gets beat to a bloody pulp and stabbed and drowned in horse urine...oh, I don't know....several times per story arc?
That sounds like fun.
And the con game Locke is building should hit tons of snags that continue raising the stakes and drawing in new, more dangerous characters, increasing the risk until you just can't stop reading even to put out house fires for the last couple hundred pages.
(For those of you who read a lot of Very Long Fantasy Serieses, this may be a foreign concept.
Like my wife I hit a bit of a soft patch early on, though for me it was that I was finding the point of view very 'surface' sharing almost nothing of Locke's thoughts or desires, leaving him a bit of a blank.
Lots of fantasy fans quite like a blank to project themselves onto - but I'm not one of them.
The dialogue (banter) brings the Gentlemen Bastards to life, the plotting keeps the reader on their toes, and the city is very well imagined.I was surprised to find that the light-hearted tone (set primarily by the banter between Locke's gang) actually allows a slew of quite dark themes/scenes to slide past with less impact than they might have.
My legs are so toned from climbing the stairs back to a higher moral ground after reading this book but I would still throw the version of myself who hasn’t picked it up sooner down a set of stairs because this was the most fun I had in a while why did I deprive myself of it? No really. Is anything as pure as a heist book? Is anything as good and exciting and forthright as a heist book, I ask you?  So, what's this book about?  The Lies of Locke Lamora, not-so-delicately traces the path back to t
(Seriously, this book is hilarious.)The Lies of Locke Lamora also has magic in bounds and mysteries by the minute and the best part is that just when you think you've seen the explosion and let your guard down a little, another one happens.
And I think that’s where this book was more successful than Six of Crows: the world did not always bend to Locke Lamora, it did not always fit into his order of things and that felt a lot more realistic.
The Lies of Locke Lamora is a love child of Ocean's Eleven and The Godfather. With blood, deaths, betrayals, money, and drowning in horse urine. With a sh*tload of non-PG humor. All for the price of one. And it's SO. GOOD.  “Some day, Locke Lamora,” he said, “some day, you’re going to fuck up so magnificently, so ambitiously, so overwhelmingly that the sky will light up and the moons will spin and the gods themselves will shit comets with glee. And I just hope that I’m still around to see it.”
“Some day, Locke Lamora,” he said, “some day, you’re going to fuck up so magnificently, so ambitiously, so overwhelmingly that the sky will light up and the moons will spin and the gods themselves will shit comets with glee.
A lovely place to raise children.-------------------------------------------------------------Locke Lamora, our lovable antihero, would like you to believe he's nothing more than a petty thief.
Seriously, you don't want Locke Lamora pissed at you.
(hide spoiler)] And that's what I really adored about this book - the depiction of honest, strong friendships between Locke and his gang.
4.5/5 StarsDouble Fuckdamn…1. For postponing reading this book for a really long time. 2. For underestimating Scott Lynch’s capability to create such a strong debut novel.  “There’s no freedom quite like the freedom of being constantly underestimated.”  Together with The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss and Malice by John Gwynne, The Lies of Locke Lamora, the first book in The Gentleman Bastard Sequence series is one of the best DEBUT novels I ever read. Don’t get me wrong, the series I ment
Together with The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss and Malice by John Gwynne, The Lies of Locke Lamora, the first book in The Gentleman Bastard Sequence series is one of the best DEBUT novels I ever read.
Luckily, when it’s there, it’s always only for a short section before the pacing is back in full throttle again so it doesn't really hurt my overall experience.I could tell you that this book is overrated or it doesn’t meet my expectation but that statement would be called ‘The Lies of Petrik Leo’ since right now, not only that I personally think it deserved the fame it gets, The Lies of Locke Lamora is one of the best debut novels I ever read.
I know, I know, I know!Please, for the love of God, don't spam my review thread with your comments on how I just don't understand the beauty of the lush world Lynch built.I most certainly do understand, but I don't enjoy reading about what material a character's coat is made out of unless it will somehow be relevant later on in the story.Here's my rule on this sort of thing:Unless the fact that the gently swaying purple flower's fragrance made WhoTheFuckEver do/say/remember something important that will move the plot forward?Well, then I don't even need to know that there was a fucking purple flower!And, yes, I do like the world I'm reading about to feel complete and real, but there's only so much I can (personally) take.This book tested my patience.There was so much...just irrelevant crap on every page that I started skimming in earnest by the 50% mark.
It's not often I read a book that makes me forget I'm a writer too. This one succeeded, madly. It stole hours of sleep. It wrapped me in cozy myth. It gave me the blessing of feeling like a kid again, snuggled up with a book, wondering how the hell 10pm became 4am. Find. Buy. Consume.
Locke - the infamous Thorn of Camorr, Jean and Bug were my personal favourites within the group but the camaraderie presented surrounding the gang was amazing - almost making us as the reader feel part of the ensemble - as we were privy to the cons, the secrets and also the stories revolving the characters youths.Lynch presents his chapters in a way that shows two timelines.
Typically a chronologic present day portrayal of what the Gentleman Bastards are doing in Camorr's underworld and then various origin stories such as Locke's induction to the group and Jean's training at weaponry.
I'll be blunt up front and share that The Lies of Locke Lamora is one of my favorite books this year.I loved it.
While the main plot of the book features heist, treachery and more mutinies than you could shake a stick at – the heart of the novel lies in the epic bromance that is the Gentlemen Bastards.
It would have been so easy to make Locke and the Gentlemen Bastards own all their exploits and emerge grinning.
Based on the synopsis and the limited knowledge I had of this book before I picked it up, I assumed locke's thieving life will begin after he is taken into the custody of the thief lord, but boy was I mistaken.
Locke is the story of a boy who has long before the story begins, been selected or better yet said; chosen for a life as a thief.
There are characters mentioned all through out, but have yet to be introduced, I personally want to meet locke's lost love sooner rather than later, but that has yet to happen.Like I said before, the book doesn't revolve solely around one person, regardless of the fact that he is the main protagonist.
5 Holy shit what did I just read Stars.★★★★★  ❝I only steal because it’s heaps of fucking fun!❞   "You can’t be serious. This crap is as welcome as a pile of severed dog cocks.” Firstly this book was incredible, seriously i can't even think of words to describe how good it was. This was my first time reading anything by Scott Lynch and I'm really impressed, he is a fantastic author and extremely talented. I'm so glad I picked up this book. I enjoyed it from page one, although I must admit it too
After getting used to Scotts writing style I was blown away, I feel like it's nearly impossible to pull off a book with past & present chapters especially when it jumps around a lot, but Scott Lynch managed pulled it off.
Seriously this book was so much fun to read.
I read some of the reviews for this book and saw a lot of people complaining about the amount of swearing....
Our main character Locke is a professional liar & the story follows him and his childhood.
I think this book would be a great introduction for anyone wanting to start reading fantasy.
Father Chains is a priest and his money making scheme is as brilliant as it is conniving.
He is the leader of Chain’s Gentleman Bastards, which is a thief syndicate that uses every tool available.
They were all raised by Chains; they are all master thieves, and the heist they attempt is bigger than the dreams any common thief.
This is always good because the genre can be littered with books that simply follow the standard fantasy archetype, which results in repetitive story telling.
both?) inspired fantasy world• Locke is a sassy little bastard who is SO CLEVER but honestly spends 98% of the time admiring his own wit• it has my new favourite brotip of the world• the plot weaves things together so clever I died• it absolutely MANGLED MY FEELS• there is magic• and psychopaths galore• it gets seriously bloody and stabby SO MUCH WHICH IS GREAT• #ISwearImNormal• I laughed.
He was simultaneously clever, witty and capable...and also like a pathetic little thin child who got into very terrible danger and needed to be rescued constantly by Jean.
Which means I read about 230 pages of this Delightful Piece of Fast-Paced Awesomeness (DPFPA™).
But I wouldn't want to be completely unfair here (and as you all know, I am fairness incarnate), so I will admit that yes, one thing did happen.
Oh believe me, I know I read it all wrong, blah blah blah, skim skim skim and all that crap.
I think I just wrote a blah blah blah, skim skim skim review!
Another great fantasy, this novel follows a talented rogue and conman, Locke Lamora, through his adventures in Camorr, a city loosely patterned after Venice, but set in a world where humans have built their society over the ruins of a much older race called the Eldren.
Lynch’s world is so vivid and fully formed that the reader feels as if he’s been dropped into the crowded bazaar in an exotic city and left to find his way out.
I confess I got bogged down at the beginning and had to come back to this book several months later.
10.07.18: Kindle offer for 1.99$. I loved this book although it is not perfect and there were some things about it that annoyed me a tiny bit. But well.. love is not a logical thing so...As other reviewers said it is combination of Ocean 11 (with a younger and more cheekier main character) and the Godfather. I would also add the bloodiness of Game of Thrones ((view spoiler)[ and the inclination to kill some of the lovable characters (hide spoiler)]) and some Jaws.The main character Locke Lamora
I loved this book although it is not perfect and there were some things about it that annoyed me a tiny bit.
love is not a logical thing so...As other reviewers said it is combination of Ocean 11 (with a younger and more cheekier main character) and the Godfather.
I loved the humor, the cursing (a lot of f-words), the characters, the writing, the pace.
It made me fast read a couple of them.
This was my only problem but I saw that it was exactly what some other reviewers loved about the book.
I can't wait to read the sequel.
Our protagonist (I definitely won't call him a hero), Locke Lamora, and his title implied lies, guide us through a twisted, involved, and incredibly fucking fun (as they would say themselves) plotline that bounces all over the place back and forth and winds to its improbable and yet not unbelievable conclusion.
Sometimes Plan Z, until he's at the end of his tether, before he finally catches a break- and by that point he might be black and blue and humiliated and mutilated in a lot of nasty ways that don't usually get to happen to a hero.
I thought it was freaking awesome and there was some sadness damn it!Mel 🖤🐾🐺
Fantastic book.
This is the story of Locke Lamorra, master thief extraordinaire, and his band of thieves, The Gentlemen Bastards.
The Gentlemen Bastards are content with their lot in life and happy to fly under the radar in the city of Camorr.
The large cast of brilliant characters made even the sub plots a gripping read.
This was at times a dark, gritty, and very brutal tale but that was mitigated by the fantastically humorous banter between the characters, and the very real friendship the Gentleman Bastards clearly shared with each other.
Locke: “I only steal because my dear old family needs the money to live!" "LIAR!" Calo: "I only steal because this wicked world won't let me work an honest trade!""LIAR!"Galdo: "I only steal because i have to support my poor lazy brother.""LIAR!" Jean: "I only steal because I've temporarily fallen in with bad company.""LIAR!"Bug: "I only steal becauseit's heaps of fucking fun!""BASTARD!”
But there is no possibility to skip the first pages without reading; the story will miss the important, strategic and historical information.
Scott Lynch definitely charms with a fascinating world, adding a dazzling effect to action and adventure.
Locke Lamora and his merry gang of thieves blend in this cauldron and this fascinating story follows them as they arrange their unbelievable frauds.
The main character, Locke Lamora, is so charming and he can really claim a place near Glokta in my heart <3.
Also I liked the relationship between Jean and Locke, I read a lot about their childhood lessons and it definitely strengthens their bond.
And all leads up to today's review.So, I kind of tricked you to lay eyes on these lines of lies.All that I learned from my days with the Gentleman Bastards and their leader, Locke Lamorra.
Maybe he already tricked you into giving him money.He's from the city of Camorr, a beautiful Venice like metropolis, where alchemical lights of all colors are reflected by the famous glass towers in the center of the city.Locke and his friends work their operation from a secret hideout in the bowels of an old temple.
"Locke Lamora's rule of thumb was this: a good confidence game took three months to plan, three weeks to rehearse, and three seconds to win or lose the victim's trust forever." Once upon a time, there was a girl who loved Six of Crows. She cried bitter tears when the duology wrapped up in September, then went on the prowl for something, anything to satisfy the void in her heart.The girl stumbled across Peaky Blinders and for a while, she was happy.But it too began to lose its luster.Scrolling t
"Locke Lamora's rule of thumb was this: a good confidence game took three months to plan, three weeks to rehearse, and three seconds to win or lose the victim's trust forever."
She cried bitter tears when the duology wrapped up in September, then went on the prowl for something, anything to satisfy the void in her heart.The girl stumbled across Peaky Blinders and for a while, she was happy.But it too began to lose its luster.Scrolling through her to-read list, she found a book she'd previously earmarked as a possible aliment.
“We don’t believe in hard work when a false face and a good line of bullshit can do so much more.” This was great!
Locke Lamora is a member of the Gentlemen’s Bastards, a team of thieves who work up detailed plans in order to swindle the rich nobles out of their money.
This book doesn’t shy away from both violence and swearing, so be aware if that’s something that would bother you.
I enjoyed the similarities it bore to the A Song of Ice and Fire series, but also all the differences that set this book apart.
I’m excited to see where the next book takes us!
The lies of Locke Lamora is a book that the title precisely matches the contents of the book precisely. Because Locke is an amazing and exceptional liar. But this isn't the story of the boy who lied too much, rather the story of the boy who stole too much. ”If he had a bloody gash across his throat and a physiker was trying to sew it up, Lamora would steal the needle and thread and die laughing. He…steals too much” That being said, this is a heist book and a book about criminals/thieves. Locke i
The lies of Locke Lamora is a book that the title precisely matches the contents of the book precisely.
”If he had a bloody gash across his throat and a physiker was trying to sew it up, Lamora would steal the needle and thread and die laughing.
That being said, this is a heist book and a book about criminals/thieves.
Don't get me wrong, Locke Lamora is not a good guy in anyway.
He always said very silly things but i loved him for that.If you love books about criminals and heists then this is the perfect book for you.
some of them had a satisfying impact on the story, but some were just random, and frequently set in the past, in a series of irritating interludes right when something exciting was about to happen.some characters wander off, never to be seen again; some are brutally murdered; one is hilariously never seen at all, apparently only existing so nobody thinks locke lamora is a homo.
time for another fucking interlude about the ceremonial vestments of the priesthood of chekthelionassus and why they only wear breechclouts on the third day of grrbhlstnwyrsheddin.
it's more fun when you say it out loud anyway.i liked the arc, but would have liked it more if lynch hadn't been messing with it the entire time.
Spoiler-Free Review! It was strange how readily authority could be conjured from nothing but a bit of strutting jackassery.  Magnificent. Absolutely amazing. I can't express how good this book was. I usually like to take some time after reading a book before I write my review; just to collect my thoughts. Though I feel like my thoughts have been mangled up even more because as time went by my love for this book increased, and thus I may not be able to express how I truly feel.  Sigh This book op
Though I feel like my thoughts have been mangled up even more because as time went by my love for this book increased, and thus I may not be able to express how I truly feel.
So if that's the case with side characters, how much do you think I loved our main ones?
“Someday, Locke Lamora,” he said, “someday, you’re going to fuck up so magnificently, so ambitiously, so overwhelmingly that the sky will light up and the moons will spin and the gods themselves will shit comets with glee.
terrible things do happen, but the book has at its core a love of humanity, of life, of loyalty, of kindness, of the ways that family can be created, of the ways that children can survive terrible things, of the ways that adults can live with their own kind of honor, even as thieves.strangely enough, there was no romance whatsoever.
in a novel that depicts a city that hangs child thieves in public, it is swear words that really bother you?i hate to end a review of a book i loved on such a negative note, but i had to get that off of my chest.
so i'll end the review like this: if you like adventure, read this book!
As enjoyed by top Grandmasters. Photos taken yesterday at the World Rapid Chess Championships in Dubai suggest that Peter Svidler, current world #13, would rather be reading Scott Lynch than pushing pawns...
