https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1621249.The_Teaching_of_Buddha
This is the Gideons Bible of Japan - it's in every hotel room drawer - Thailand also I hear.
It's a good introduction to Siddharta's sutras, and has some of the great similes and tales that Buddhist writings are famous for, but it's very much a traditional Japanese Buddhist reading and some of the more 'religious' stuff in the later chapters contains many of the things that more liberal Buddhism eschews, i.e. concepts of Hell, sin and deification.
Хүн бүрийн заавал унших ёстой ном гэж хэлмээр байна.
Зөвхөн шашины ном гэж нэг үзлээр туйлшралгүй бурхан багшийн сургааль гэж үзэн унших хэрэгтэй.
ухаарал өгсөн сургаалийн хэсгээс нь мөн өөрийн амьдралдаа хэрэгжүүлж үр дүн гарч буй сургаалийн хэсгээс: 💕 хатуужил тэвчээртэй байхыг сурах хэцүү ч,эцсийн эцэст алдрын титмийг тэвчээртэй хүн л хүртдэг.
Чухамхүү энэ сэтгэл л төөрөгдөлийн байшин савыг бүтээн буй болдог.💕 өгсөнөө өгсөн гэж бүү бод.
Бардах буянаас , мартах буян нь илүү гэдгийг санаж,энэ нь ухаалаг зөв зүйтэй үйл мөн хэмээн түүнийг дага.💕 хүн цэвэр ариун амьдрах ёстой.
Энэ амьдрал МӨНХ БУС 🙋🏻‍♀️👶🏻👵🏻🙏🙏🙏 Саду .
I read this book to increase my understanding of Buddhism.
While I learned a few new things, much of the philosophy I was already familiar with, perhaps because the fundamental philosophy of Buddhism is fairly simple (though living it is not).
I like Buddhism's promotion of kindness and respect for nature and animals.
The primary focus of this book was erasing desire for things of this world, and thereby preventing suffering.
The book had some interesting anecdotes that made you think, but like many texts of this nature, was extremely repetitive.
I think you probably could read the first 1/3 of the book and not miss any super important additional points.
This is a good book, with basic information on the teachings of the Buddha. However, it seems a little biased towards Amidism/Shingon/Pure Land type of worship and less towards actually abiding in your True Nature, like the Buddha did. I believe that it is necessary to follow the Buddha in order to be a buddhist, and to follow the Buddha is to be a Buddha. Chanting and worshiping is not what the Buddha did. Nevertheless, the book has good information, especially if you are new to Buddhism.
I learned much from reading this book. I was surprised by how philosophically unsophisticated Buddhism is and how deeply out of touch it is with Western ideals. I would encourage anyone, Christian and Buddhist included, to read these writings. I have found that the best place to look to see if something is right or wrong is at it's best proponents. This volume makes me more confident than ever that Buddhism is dangerous and false.
Амтат балыг долоож байгаад хэлээ зүсч болзошгүй.”133-“...Хэрэв орчин тойрон нь сайн бол хүн ариун сэтгэлтэй, төлөв даруу, амгалан тайван байж чаддаг.
Сайн үйл бүтээсэндээ баярлан хөөрч, өглөгийн эзэн өөрийгөө, юу өгснөө, хэнд өгснөө мартаж чадвал сая жинхэнэ өглөг болно.”187-“...Зөв сургаал сонсоод байн байн эргэцүүлэн бодож, сурч судалж, дагаж мөрдвөл түүнийг ухаарна.
Аливаа юмны тухай бол миний юм гэж бүү бод.”227-“...Орон гэрийг түйвээх зургаан үүд нь ууж согтуурах, үдэш орой болтол найрлах, хөгжим, театр зэрэгт ухаанаа өгч хөөцөлдөх, мөрийтэй тоглох, муу хүнтэй нөхөрлөх, ажлаасаа зугтах эдгээр болой”231-“...Хүн нөхөрлөж болох хийгээд үл болох хүнийг ялгаж сурах хэрэгтэй.
It lacked the lyricism and mystery of the synoptic Gospels, or the dramatic punch of the Taoist tales.
But then, later, there are six other things to avoid.
But humans love a mystery.
Each of us wants to feel like she has discovered a secret.
And one great thing about the synoptic Gospels is that the parables there are only sometimes explained.
They are not laid out like a patient on an operating table.
Ultimately, the reason for human misery is attachment, and you must concentrate on severing that attachment to achieve peace.
But how do you sever attachment?
This books was left in a hotel room in Bangkok, I started paging through it at first, but managed to read through it in the 2 days we spend there.I enjoyed the book and believe that if I was religious I would be a Buddhist.Highly recommended.
Very similar to the Judeo-Christian Bible, but more peaceful
Сэтгэл тавьгүй ч юмуу уншмаар санагдсан үедээ байнга хардаг ном
“As a net is made up of a series of ties, so everything in this world is connected by a series of ties. If anyone thinks that the mesh of a net is an independent, isolated thing, he is mistaken. It is called a net because it is made up of a series of interconnected meshes, and each mesh has its place and responsibility in relation to the other meshes.”  Oh wow, am I reading physics here?
Бодь мөрийн зэргээс өмнө үүнийг уншсан юм. Надад хамгийн их нөлөөлсөн номнуудын нэг. Үүнийг уншиж бясалган сахил хүртсэн мэт дэглэмтэй байсан тэр өдрүүд намайг аз жаргалтай амар амгалан болгожээ. Гэхдээ байнга уншиж бясалгаж боловсрохгүй бол урьд хичээл зүтгэлийн үр шим хүчээ алдана... Сэтгэл гэдэг хамгийн их хяналт, боловсрол шаарддаг зүйл ажээ.
It reads pretty dry and isn't too stimulating, but if you are looking for the basic precepts of Buddhism in one compact book, then The Teaching of Buddha is for you.One interesting thing I learned about Buddhism is that this is one of the few religions – perhaps even the only one – in the world that does not worship a deity.
The odd thing is that I don't think of Buddhism as a religion, but rather as a philosophy by which one bases their entire life.
This religion/philosophy is an interesting one to take a look at and might be worth your time to read into a bit.
A selection of Buddhist teachings from various sources, this book (15th edition) is highly recommended. Nicely categorized for quick reference. Often given free in Hotels and other locations in Asia. My edition is bilingual in English and Chinese. The only problem is with one of the indices, the one that lets you know from which source the selection is taken. It is sometimes difficult to understand without referring to the Chinese.
There are two books that have inspired me more than any other, and this is one of them! It has shaped me into who I am today and I would be a different person if I had not read this in grade school. I am grateful to have found this at my local library! It helped me at a time when I needed it the most. Please read this book!
this book is fantastic. I am sure a second read is in order.

Una buena recopilación de textos y enseñanzas budistas .
No es un texto académico o esotérico, sino una antología ideal para quienes desean refrescar ciertos conceptos e ideas y no tienen un templo o monjes cercanos.
En principio, esta antología está pensada también para quienes apenas se acercan al budismo, así que incluye numerosas parábolas para hacer más claros algunos de los conceptos más complejos, pero probabalmente funcione como primer encuentro en países en los que el budismo se encuentra más difundido.
Sin embargo, no deja de ser un excelente compendio de enseñanzas y sabiduría, organizado en secciones concisas que permiten acercarse a las enseñanzas budistas de manera paulatina.
Yes I did finish this book cover to cover. I learned in better details of the philosophy of buddalism. To me, the teaching of Buddha is more of a teaching of greater compassion as in Mahayana, rather than religion. What's great and interests me the most is that the development of buddhalism is accompanied with the flow of history of Asian countries. The concept of Mahayana is saving all and acceptance of suffering, which is great but not that I totally agreed with it . All in all, a great little book and worth recommending .
Good reading for anyone interested or curious about Buddhist beliefs. I liked this particular author because I believe he truly tried to communicate an accurate message across translation. No silly slipped in advertising or other nonsense here, just straightforward easy to understand stories of Buddha's teachings and a few other goodies! Definitely worthwhile.
Great Introduction to BuddhismBeautiful read through the foundational concepts of Buddhism. I thoroughly enjoyed reading and learning about the harmonious concepts this religion embodies.
Un resumen y acercamiento al budismo bastante completo y lleno de historias para ejemplarizar y amenizar la explicación de sus ideas.
This is by far the best book in my Buddhism library. Even though I cannot read Japanese language, I do not mind having it in the book. This book is never a finished book, always refer to it.
Good summary of Buddhism It contains essential aspects of Buddhism. To my taste, though, it has too many parables which I don’t enjoy so much
Reading this brought so much peace to me. In fact, one night, it even staved off a panic attack. I'll always value it.
A must read. So many parallels with modern, Western psychology, therapy and mental health. Two sides of a resonating coin.
Inspiring teachings. For me it goes hand in hand with the Bhagavad Gita.
“Buddha’s Wisdom is broad as the ocean and His spirit is full of great Compassion.” ... “Hatreds never cease by hatreds in this world. By love alone they cease. This is an ancient law.”
Worth reading at least to see connections between religions. There are many similarities with Ibrahimi religions.
Um... this book wasted my time.
