https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322934.Oppression_and_Liberty
--Prospects: Are we heading for the Proletarian Revolution?--Reflections Concerning Technocracy, National-Socialism, the U.S.S.R. and Certain Other Matters--On Lenin's book 'Materialism and Empiriocriticism'--Reflections Concerning the Causes of Liberty and Social Oppression--Critique of Marxism--Analysis of Oppression--Theoretical Picture of a Free Society--Sketch of Contemporary Social Life--Conclusion--Fragments, 1933-1938--Critical Examination of the Ideas of Revolution and Progress--Meditation on Obedience and Liberty--On the Contradictions of Marxism--Fragments, London 1943--Is There a Marxist Doctrine?
Which sounds like a good description of most forms of 21st century government, with a few tweaks on the definition of "science." The main essay is a bit more diffuse, but also a laudable attempt to construct a unified theory of oppression.
She argues that "oppression is exercised by force," and spends some time theorizing what "force" is--which is very similar to a lot of Marxist and Frankfurt school thought on why, despite the possibility of meeting everyone's needs, we do such a great job of meeting only a few people's.
"In generale, i rapporti di dominio e di sottomissione tra gli esseri umani, poichè non sono mai pienamente accettabili, costituiscono sempre uno squilibrio senza rimedio e che si aggrava perpetuamente; lo stesso accade anche nell'ambito della vita privata, in cui l'amore, ad esempio, distrugge ogni equilibrio nell'anima non appena cerca di asservire a sè il proprio oggetto o di asservirsi ad esso.
Ma in questo caso almeno nulla di esterno si oppone a che la ragione torni a mettere tutto in ordine stabilendo la libertà e l'uguaglianza; mentre i rapporti sociali, nella misura in cui i procedimenti stessi del lavoro e della lotta escludono l'uguaglianza, sembrano far pesare la follia sugli uomini come una fatalità esterna.
This is really a phenomenally good book. The writing is impeccable, abstaining from elaborate verbalism (rather commonplace in texts of French theorists) and the concepts are treated in clear, systematic and rigorous manner. I'm not going to write anything on the content yet until I find some time to organize my notes.
Probably give it a 3.5 only cause she’s talking about specific historical economic things that I’m not familiar with as of this moment. Will probably revisit in the future though.
Como consequência os operários são levados a um sentimento de riqueza pois obtém rendimento monetário que os leva ao mercado dos bens prontos a usar, tal como a burguesia, tornando-se este efeito o combustível da alienação da sua condição de liberdade.Weil liga todos os factores e as consequências de forma brilhante, mostra como o homem permite a sua "coisificação" e a sua condição de escravo inconsciente.
Para Weil, a "Revolução" não é mais que uma ideia apropriada pelo capitalismo e vazia de sentido originário, isto é, não passa de uma válvula de segurança do sistema para que se auto-prorrogue no tempo de forma permanente.
While I don't necessarily agree with everything she says in the text, I love her reasoning.
With some philosophy texts I get the feeling that the writer has never troubled themselves to actually apply their theory to the world around them; Weil, by contrast, interests herself with looking at the evidence presented to her through the world.
The only issue I had with it was towards the end, where she justified her points by making claims about god without ever explaining these claims.
This I shall forgive, since the work is clearly unfinished, and perhaps she owuld have explained herself more, had she been given the time.
This is by far the most impressive brief analysis of revolution, Marxist thought, and the possibility, or lack thereof, of social change I have read in a long time. It is worthy of a much longer review which I'll write in the next few days. I am really glad I grabbed this book on a whim. I've heard of Simone Weil but until now my knowledge of her political thought was non-existent.
basically simone weil tweeted 'marxism is just another religion' and then every male french writer stole her tweet and got more likes
Isn't our post-modern dilemma of Religious Terror and Islamic Theocracy and Fundamentalism of all creeds, a step back to pre 19th century religious and spiritual Obedience to Prophetic Laws over modern parliamentary and representative Constitutional Rights of the individual?A reading of Marx points to the same mistake, in regards to the end of the class system after the disillusionment of Religious Power, and Material Capitalistic world domination -- both are still with us, unfortunately -- Simone was very much a Marxist, at heart, I doubt very much the two differed on fundamental views regarding man's alienation and estrangement from his natural roots.
3.5 really. Bit harsh to criticise a book of fragments as being, er, fragmented. But it's a slightly stuttering and hard-going read, even though there are some brilliant insights within. Really picks up in the latter sections with some hammer blows against Marx(ism) and some tantalising glimpses of a major work that could have come out of it.
I would say it is informative on the aspect of how oppression forms and the critique of Marx. Yet the part with fragments starts to repeat herself with rarely anything new. Same concept that Marx never really studied or mentioned war just that capitalism forms economic oppression.I recommend this book though.
Simone Weil delivers an in depth analysis on revolution, oppression, and a critique of Marxism.
She is worth it.
La Weil però non è la semplice mente critica che ha il solo obiettivo di smascherare i punti deboli di ogni concetto bensì, alla fine della sua spiegazione, offre delle linee guida che potrebbero garantire all’uomo la riconquista della propria libertà individuale, inserendolo comunque nel contesto della società di appartenenza, ma limitando il più possibile quella che è l’oppressione dettata dalla società.

Interesting critique of Marxism, but perhaps it's the political philosophy (unfortunate, since I'm an amateur fan of politics) or perhaps it's simply that I wasn't looking for this from Weil, but despite her clear-if-typical-philosopher writing style, most of this wasn't engrossing. I was far more interested in Weil herself and what was revealed between the lines (her steadfast faith in humanity, her religious atheism, her incredible character).
These are Simone Weil's more radical political writings from before her pursuit of Catholic mysticism began. She is really pretty brilliant here.
Belle réflexion sur le sens du progrès, sur le pouvoir et la place de la pensée face au simple matériel dans nos sociétés.
