https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233637.The_Hidden_Staircase
You're never too old to re-read childhood favorites. I'm currently working my way through the Nancy Drew hardcovers. In this book, Nancy discovers a hidden staircase and solves the mystery of unexplained happenings at the mansion. A quick, easy read with an element of danger.
It was third grade, I was reading one of these under my desk during math time, and totally got caught answering, "Wha-hu?" instead of the answer to a long division problem.
(Except that one time we got in trouble for throwing snowballs on the playground in the middle of January.
No, really.) But it tells you how much I love these books that I didn't care!
In fact, I think I went right back to reading the next day.
What isn't to love?
*Hush Hush*Nancy's father goes missing.
Helen's great grandmother Miss Flora's Twin Elms home is haunted, a mystery which Nancy decides to investigate upon her close friend Helen's insistence.
Imagine Nancy's surprise when Nathan Gomber, the very man who threatened Nancy's lawyer father, turns up at Twin Elms to coerce Miss Flora into selling him her much vaunted colonial house.
Ah, (view spoiler)[ha-ha, I got you, nothing here, this is Nancy Drew after all!*smirks* (hide spoiler)] Nathan Gomber, do you smell a rat?
I hope you are recuperating faster than we all want and I am sure all this little hazy feeling will pass in no time.
I read this as a buddy read with my dear friend AditaIs it a wise decision to re-visit a series that you adored as a child as an adult????? They say you can never truly go back….but maybe you can a little?????? A short while ago my lovely Goodreads friend Adita read and reviewed the first book in the Nancy Drew series; you can read that wonderful review here. This review brought back the  most  wonderful memories for me and so I decided to partake in a little nostalgia and join Adita in her Nanc
A short while ago my lovely Goodreads friend Adita read and reviewed the first book in the Nancy Drew series; you can read that wonderful review here.
wonderful memories for me and so I decided to partake in a little nostalgia and join Adita in her Nancy Drew reading quest.And I am so very pleased that I did.
I found myself getting quite caught up in the storyline and had the constant sensation that something or someone was going to jump out from behind a closed cupboard at any minute.I remember as a child reading a Nancy Drew book entitled the Ghost of Blackwood Hall and being TERRIFIED!!
But when it comes to Nancy Drew my childish love for these books wins out.
*Borrowed from my library's e-book service!*I grew up on anything Nancy Drew, from the video games to one of my childhood favourites: The Secret of the Old Clock.
The Hidden Staircase is the second in the original Nancy Drew series, published in 1930 and still remains in print!
Nancy is trying to solve two mysteries: A haunting tale of a ghost that is running amok in an old mansion or so it seems...
and a mystery surrounding threats made to her own father.
However, this series remains a strong classic within my heart and would revisit it again!

(The stairs were old, not the servants.) :DBut anyhow, I owned and read about 20 ND books and this was the first, and to me, the best.
Added on December 12, 2015 Well I just re-read this book, found my old, original copy while pulling Christmas decorations out of a closet.
Nancy drives a 'roadster,' has 'bobbed' hair and is amazed when a friend has an 'electrical refrigerator.' She pumps water to get her father a drink.
Cliches, much?Too much, though this was still one of my favorite ND books and it's all because of those creepy tunnels AND the hidden staircase.
I listened to this on audiotape in my car.I originally put this book on here a few years ago to represent my love for Nancy Drew, since this one was my favorite.Upon my "re-read", I found this to still be a fun story.
These are definitely dated books, but they're timeless in my opinion.Nancy can really be annoying sometimes, though.
Is there anything she's not perfect at?I clearly have to give this 5 stars due to my love of this book as a kid.___________________________________(original review: - 8/12/10)This is my favorite Nancy Drew book of all time.
I re-read this one over and over again as a kid.
The Good: As you might expect, this is more of the same that the premiere Nancy Drew novel delivered, but, that isn't a bad thing.
The usual suspenseful scenes and twists and turns that have taken place in many a mystery are present here...and that's just what readers are likely expecting.
Nothing really to complain about.The Bad: While there weren't any serious issues, this book wasn't outstanding, which is why I'm only giving it four stars.Content Concerns:• Sex: None.
5/5• Frightening/Intense Scenes: The aforementioned peril, especially when the main character's father is feared dead.
Mystery fans who have yet to check these books out definitely should.Score: 4/5
Moram priznati radnja je ovde dosta interesantnija i fina ideja mesanja uklete kuce i pokusaja pronalaska nestale osobe. Ali opet je glavni problem sto je relativno naivno. Sada tu problem nije u knjizi posto je ocigledno pisana za mladju publiku negu u meni posto sam ocito davno prerastao ovaj serijal.Generalno mogu da preporucim knjige al ja ih necu citati dalje.
I loved Nancy Drew as a young girl. This was the first one I ever read.
Welp, I read another YA novel!🚗🔦I love the fact that my last three books have women characters that are really brave and great. Love it. Girl power💪!
This was the very first Nancy Drew book I read. One of my grammer school classmates gave it to me--sometime when I was in the sixth grade?Now remember, girls in the 1950's were a LOT less sophisticated than now. I loved this book. To me then, it was a riveting mystery--except for the fact that I thought Nancy was way too independent. (My parents would NEVER let me do that!)Anyway this book led me into a world of Nancy adventure to beg and borrow for more. At that time the libraries rarely carried Nancy Drew.
I loved the two part mystery of this.
Both the proving a ghost haunt is really a human hoax (and who) and the case of her father and the railroad legalities.
I loved seeing how they blend together.
A good, clean mystery.
Nancy is very persuasive but also respectful, even to criminals who have done her wrong!
SHe is one to be admired!
And helpful and kind too.
She seems to genuinely care for those around her.
I want to know where her mother is though.
Her father must be a very good lawyer to afford a live-in housekeeper that is always available.
94th book read in 2017.Number 348 out of 658 on my all time book list.GHOSTS!!! Not as good as book one but still fun.
Upstairs, in one bright corner room were picture books - all stacked in wooden bins.
In the adjoining room were the chapter books, lined impeccably on shelves.
And in this room, lined in beautiful symmetry, was the Nancy Drew mystery series, hardbound.
And, just below them, in volumes of identical size and width, were the Hardy Boys.That was many years ago, and so when I took my own children to the new, brick, streamlined library in town that replaced the old one (but could not replicate its charm), Nancy Drew was displayed now on audio.
I just finished a bizzarro version that was written in 1930, prior to the edits and whitewashing that re-did the Nancy novels in the 1950s.
Take them out and pretend they never existed!But of course Now I Need to find the more recent version of Hidden Staircase to figure out what got changed.
Also, instead of two elderly (spinster) sisters owning the mysterious "haunted" house, the women are now a (widowed) aunt who has moved in with her elderly (of course widowed) mother.
Also, we need to go marketing, both to feed ourselves and the "ghost" who is stealing our food.Good gawd, ladies!
Nancy’s friend, Helen, and Helen’s Great-Aunt Rosemary ask Nancy to solve a mystery at her great-grandmother’s home, Twin Elms, a stately Colonial mansion in nearby Cliffwood.
After Nancy confers with the local chief of police, an officer named Patrick is assigned to patrol the grounds while Nathan Gomber repeatedly harasses Miss Flora and Rosemary to sell their property to him.When Nancy’s father fails to arrive on schedule, Nancy becomes worried, later finding out that her father was kidnapped.
As she rushes to find him she also finds a connection between her father and the ghost of Twin Elms.Once again, the title gave it away but I thought The Hidden Staircase was much better than The Secret of the Old Clock.
2006 audio file of this 1959 book.
I suddenly became interested in the long long long life and popularity of Nancy Drew.
I love these books when I was a kid, but I am interested and why kids nowadays would be interested In stories with no video games no I phones no computers.
I mainly wanted to make sure that this version of the book that was currently offered as an audiobook by my library was actually the version of the book that I had read.
As a kids book and even as a light read I think it was still very interesting.
But still a very good book but still
A cute read for what it is, but really this is so unrealistic that it is almost laughable. The father is kidnapped, Nancy believes he is probably being held prisoner somewhere, drugged, etc., yet she just continues to go nonchalantly along trying to solve the mystery of the ghost in her friend's mansion, with her father just being a sideline thought. Really??? If someone has been kidnapped and missing for many days, THAT should be your TOTAL focus! Hello! But she is having too much fun driving around in her convertible, looking for 'clues'. Sheesh!
Great book. I loved this series as a child. I'm re-reading them now as a stress-reducer. Looking at it from an adult's perspective, I can now appreciate the positive lessons Keene was presenting to girls reading these books. They were written in the 1930s, so it's especially impressive how independent and capable Nancy is. Great vocabulary-building words too. And the illustrations are a delight. I wonder of this book influenced writer Darcy Coates who wrote The Haunting of Gillespie House, both of which remind me of this.
This is a very easy book to read I read it all in one day. A very good classic.
So interesting I have similar comments to make about this book as i did with the other Nancy drew books that i have read I just think i am be a bit to old for these books but no matter what age i am i think i will always find these books interesting definitely recommend any Nancy drew books
Nancy Drew was one of my early role models! I always loved reading these mysteries and all the peachy keen details. This one has a haunted house and Nancy's father mysteriously disappears! Once again the savvy teenage sleuth is drawn into intrigue and danger. Always nice to visit the pages of a favorite from childhood!
I really enjoyed this book.
It was very predictable as far as who the person behind all the happenings was, but I still found some surprises along the way.
I definitely want to pick up the rest of the Nancy Drew books and read them this Summer.
My middle school me would be thrilled.
Since it has been a long time since I've read Nancy Drew, I was a little disappointed that Ned and Bess wasn't in this book.
It seems that they don't come into the story-line until later books.
"The Hidden Staircase" ...Carolyn Keene/Various Authors. It took me a couple of hours to read this book , Well really I read the book last night and didn't finish until 3 am. I'm going to admit, I really enjoyed this story.The book really held my attention . The Hidden Staircase had tons of suspense and some small like horror for me with the glowing eyes chapter . I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys Nancy Drew , The hidden staircase will hold your attention and really have chills going down your back!!
Utterly ridiculous. Who in their right mind would go out exploring at night, investigating strange happenings and eerie occurrences?But I love it! The books after this are definitely better though.
A pretty good mystery that tied everything up without going the 'Old Man Jenkins!' non-surprise at the end.
Nancy Drew returns in yet another fantastic story that keeps you turning the pages.
VERY GOOD BOOK! i love this one!
