https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816752.The_Castle_in_the_Attic
I just read this to my 2 boys (ages 6 & 4) for a bedtime read & I was a little surprised at how much they loved it.
It's about a boy who has an adventure with a play castle & knight which come to life.
It isn't a book you have to edit at all in the reading & it's captivating to any little boy who wishes he could be a hero.
I can't even tell you how fast those turkeys got ready for bed while we were reading this, I hope I can find another one that captures their attention as much because I've gotten used to not fighting for bedtime when I remind them about reading.
This is one of those childhood books that really sticks with you long after you read it. It's a little dated but still a fantastic story.
It's a pretty good story, but the plot is paced a little strangely.
The book is halfway over before they even go into the castle and on their adventure, which makes it seem to me like the adventure part moves much more quickly than it should.
Other than that, my only complaint would be the many, many moments in which the story read like an episode of Full House -- it was rather cheesy in parts, but I suppose that is to be expected to an extent with children's books.
Otherwise, it's a pretty solid and rather exciting story for kids.
I remember this book being read to me by my teacher in 2nd grade and being awed by how awesome and compelling it was.
Now as a young woman who just picked up this book again years later the magic still has not faded and is just as wonderful as it was all those years ago.If you want to read a book that is very entertaining and will keep you turning the pages, this is the book for you.
The funny thing about this book when it was read to me in the 2nd grade was it was the first book being read to me that had no pictures.
When I noticed my teacher was showing us pictures, I asked her why.
I lost interest at about forty minutes. Seemed well written. DNF.
The Castle in the Attic by Elizabeth WinthropEdition: Audio CD1 of 1 people found the following review helpful: Great Fantasy, October 15, 2008 I enjoyed this book so much, I have listened to it twice.
He has to be brave, in order to have the castle, which has been in Mrs. Phillips family for many many years.
Mrs. Phillips tells William that there is a story passed down through her family, that the silver knight is under a spell, and that one day he will come back to life.There is magic, spells and trickery within the walls of the castle.
As an adult, I can see the elements that appealed to me as a child, but I can also see some of the things I wouldn't have considered as a child.
For one thing, though the main character is a boy, this is not a book for most boys.
The story is mostly about the castle he is given by his departing housekeeper, and how William interacts with the housekeeper and the castle.
This book is suitable for early grades--somewhere between 6-10 yrs old, though the story is perhaps suitable for children younger then the reading level.
I think this book is an excellent example of what adults think kids SHOULD like in books.
The main character forever self-examines all his mistakes and regrets them earnestly.
Everything this kid did was earnest!
I do not buy that this kid is ten.
Perhaps a believable seven?
I think getting an intermediate grade boy to read this all the way through would be incredibly difficult.
The "sensitive" William is forever crying and whining and moping.
The main character comes off as a real goody-goody Dork!
Boys in 1985 must have been very different.
Can't believe this was chosen for Battle of the Books.
I read this in elementary school and adored it.
Somebody else described it as being "magical," and for a kid I would agree.
Castles and knights and fantasy kingdoms-- the stuff kids' dreams are made of.
I read it again in college for an adolescent lit.
class, and, of course, as an adult it didn't have the same appeal.
But, hey, it wasn't written for adults in the first place, so big deal if my grown-up mind wasn't as hooked as the child of yesteryear.
I still give it four stars, merely because the first time I read it, as a kid, I really loved it...
A parting gift from Mrs. Phillips, a spectacular model of a medieval castle, offers no consolation....at first.Then, unlike most talking doll stories, William discovers not only that he can enter the interior life of a toy.
Definitely a little more happening below the surface than with 'The Indian in the Cupboard.' William's relationship with Mrs. Phillips carries more weight than, and takes precedence over, his battle with the story's villain, a wizard who might turn the denizens of feudal times into lead figurines, but still seems ineffectual and unimportant.Most middle schoolers aren't about to consider any of that.
Ten-year-old William is so distraught at the idea of his beloved housekeeper/nanny Mrs. Phillips returning to England that, with the aid of a magic token, he shrinks her into the size of the toy knight which inhabits a wooden castle that has been passed down in her family for generations.
To undo his rash deed, William must be miniaturized himself and accompany the silver knight, Sir Simon, on a quest to overthrow Alastor, a wicked magician who long ago usurped the throne of what should have been Sir Simon's kingdom.
This is one of those books that is always sitting on library shelves but that I never read--I just was never drawn to it.
After reading it now, that feeling is confirmed.
Admittedly I probably would have enjoyed this book more if I were eight and had read the whole thing in an afternoon instead of being 27 and spending three days of commuting to get through it...
She hails from England and decides to return, which proves immensely difficult for them both.
She has no other children and is giving him an extraordinary family heirloom, instead of returning to England with it.
What she entrusts him with is a large, unbelievably real-looking model and tin knight.
For uncounted generations, Mrs. Phillip's family has been enthralled with this heirloom; passing along rumours of a spell that might be broken by the right person.
William has time to receive a thorough tour before Mrs. Phillips is set to depart.
William receives a large medieval castle model and a knight figurine. While playing, the Silver Knight comes to life and puts William on the path to an Arthurian quest.William is a little weepy and his attachment to Mrs. Phillips little long-winded (that's not the word but I can't think of one that fits and doesn't reflect something else.) Slow moving at the start but the quest part kicks it up. I've heard it's enjoyed by elem. kids.Obviously owes something to Indian in the Cupboard
Recommend this one for fans of THE INDIAN IN THE CUPBOARD.***wondering why all my reviews are five stars? Because I'm only reviewing my favorite books -- not every book I read. Consider a novel's presence on my Goodreads bookshelf as a hearty endorsement. I can't believe I just said "hearty." It sounds like a stew.****
One of my favorites from childhood. I need to read it again, but I remember loving it. I was probably in the fourth or fifth grade and I had to read this for a book report. I remember being so caught up in the story about a boy who enters his toy castle to fight evil. Obviously the details escape me, but check it out it's great.
this book is really for any one who is in an adventerous mood. with this book being all about wizards and battle. William{the main character} finds this out when his housekeeper leaves him a present, a magical stone castle! you really need to read it to get the feel of medieval times.
I did not like this book. It was exiting in different spots. Even I enjoyed this book I will give it a two. I liked different spots. this is a ok book. And so " I SAY SO LONG BOOK".
He finished it in a day and said he noticed a sequel on the AR website.
That sent me to my chair to enjoy this story once more, so that I, too can read the sequel with everything fresh on my mind.
This story is a sweet coming of age tale, rife with knights, chivalry, and tough decisions.
My only complaint as an adult is that I felt like there were a few statements missing in certain parts.
Like, why aren't we told about the tapestry before his first mention?
Anyway, after the sequel, I think I'll throw The Indian in the Cupboard at him (figuratively speaking).
Delightful, fast read. I loved this story. The transitions between the worlds is a little fuzzy but otherwise it was a page turner.
Really cute story! It reminded me a lot of The Indian in the Cupboard, only it's medieval themed. :) Freaking cool, huh?
3.5 stars
A fun book about a boy growing up and having to face the fears of letting go of his nanny. He learns these lessons through his adventure of spending time with a silver knight.
16-17 school year with L & N. I give it 3. Kids would give it 4. They really liked it. I thought it was meh. But I do remember loving it when young as well. It's a fun little read but it doesn't hold a candle to what we're reading now "Wind in the Willows"...lots of things lacking. I particularly thought that what William did to Mrs. Phillips was abominable.
The cover is what drew me in from the beginning.
I remember reading this in 3rd grade maybe.
I was enthralled with the concept of a magical castle that came to life.
I tried really hard to make my barbie house come to life, but oddly enough that never occurred.
While reading this I forgot how slow the beginning was.
Now I remember why I was so obsessed with being a hero.
I look forward to reading this to my children someday and giving them a journey they can lose themselves in.
There is loss, opportunity, and the possibility of becoming a hero by slaying a massive dragon.
This book is a great read for students in 3rd-7th grade.
I think this will be a great mystery book for children in 5th-7th grade, they would really enjoy it.Its about a 10 year old boy named William who lives in New York with his Nanny, Mrs. Phillips.
Mrs. Phillips gives William a gift, its her old wooden castle that has been passed down from generation to generation.It came with only one knight, Silver Knight, also known as Sir Simon who came alive when William held him.
Sir Simon, William and Mrs. Phillips go on a quest to get Sir Simon's land back.
It is written so poorly, it has the worst pacing and just seems to jump from scene to scene with almost no transition.
That being said, I am a product of what books like this can do for a very young child.
I found this at a young age and remember loving it.
I think that if the overall idea is interesting enough, young children just don't notice the many other problems.
Still, I would rather my kids read a well written book with and interesting subject as opposed to a poorly written one.
I think he prefers the stuff written for older crowds; when he gets the feeling it was written for "kids" he kind of poo-poos it.
That didn't stop him from wanting to read this at every opportunity, however when it was over he said it was ok, rather than truly liking it.For me it wasn't the best read, I prefer reading the kids books that are a little more advanced, where the language is creative and interesting.
Also the message was a bit too obvious: small kid full of self doubt learns that only he is capable of saving his loved ones, and that he has the heart of a knight.
This was one of my favorite books as a child; I read it over and over.William's nanny is going back to England because she believes he's old enough to take care of himself.
It comes with one Silver Knight, and when William touches him, he comes to life.
In order to defeat the wizard who placed the spell on the knight, William must become small himself and journey to another land.This book actually holds up well upon re-reading as an adult, and thanks to LibraryThing, I now know there is a sequel.
I'm off to read that next, for the very first time!
One of the worst books I've ever read.
I was forced to read this in 5th grade and I wouldn't have read it otherwise.
I judged this book by its cover and this time I was right.
With a cheesy plot and stereotypical characters this book had nothing interesting in it.
I'm not trying to be really rude with this review but thinking back there is maybe one positive thing I can think of about this book.
So maybe my one star rating was a bit harsh in some people's point of view but I couldn't have lived with myself if I put it any higher.
