https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144073.Good_Morning_Midnight
Miller looks at the world, sees himself everywhere and shouts, “Fuck, yeah.” Rhys peeks out her window, sees herself everywhere and mutters, “Meh.” Then she crawls back into bed with a bottle of gin and stares at the bugs on the wall.I’m not convinced Henry Miller is a good role model for the thousands of middle-class boys who read him in late adolescence and are given this incredibly seductive picture of life as an endless bachelor party, with wall-to-wall pussy and intermissions of boozy philosophical chatter.
A clear-eyed chronicle of desperation etched in diamond-hard prose. It amazes me how any book so filled with despair could be so completely free of self-pity, and how any book consisting entirely of an inward monologue could contain such vivid realistic details and make Paris in the '30's come alive!
After the first week I made up my mind to kill myself- the usual whiff of chloroform. Next week, or next month, or next year I’ll kill myself…… These are words spoken with truth and clarity. They’re simple and honest. And not for a single moment in the novel did I doubt them, not for a single moment did I conceive that there could be an alternative ending. I’m not going to sugar coat it for you: this isn’t a nice novel. There is very little in the way of redemptive themes, and the motif of free
There is very little in the way of redemptive themes, and the motif of freedom is only fully achieved through the ultimate rejection of human happiness and interpersonal relationships.
Sasha is the woman who has had her heart broken; she is the woman who loved and lost: she is the loner.
Through her relationship with men, the novel explores typical gender roles.
And this does give Sasha some freedom, though she doesn’t fully explore it: she is far to damaged.
The novel also openly discusses homosexuality, in men and women, which is ridiculously ahead of its time.
Electric stream-of-consciousness novel whose action largely takes place in the margins.
Rhys is an extraordinary writer of inner-state, and she finds a surprising amount of observational humor in the struggles of her narrator, Sophia Jansen, who has returned to Paris years after a tragedy.
Characters, mainly men, flit in and out of this book in a daze, and though the cinema plays a major part in the action, there is frequent slippage into the past.
Rhys has given us the best kind of unreliable narrator here, one who is unreliable even to herself, and though there's not much in terms of scene work to latch onto, the novel is very fast.
Emily Dickinson, poem 382. “Good Morning—Midnight—I'm coming Home—Day—got tired of Me—How could I—of Him?Sunshine was a sweet place—I liked to stay—But Morn—didn't want me—now—So—Goodnight—Day!I can look—can't I—When the East is Red?The Hills—have a way—then—That puts the Heart—abroad—You—are not so fair—Midnight—I chose—Day—But—please take a little Girl—He turned away!” The desperation of having sunk so low to a bottomless pit where disaffection has taken over the zest for life is at the backgr
Was Jean Rhys an eccentric woman, like Dickinson; a social outcast unable to accept her place in the corseted roles attached to their gender at the time?Or was she another victim of straddling two worlds, the inner and the outer, two cultures, two expectations, hers and the other that society nursed on her since her birth?When depression is no longer a novelty but the dominant state in which a person operates for long periods of time, there is no room for self-pity or compassion.
Good Morning Midnight (1939), sees Englishwoman Sasha Jansen come to Paris on borrowed money to recapture the happiness and exorcise the pain of her previous life there.
Told with a spare prose style, this reads as a work of fiction but also redeems Jean Rhys's own consciousness throughout, in her life she found the simplest practicalities beyond her, and once said "I have only ever written about myself", It's difficult not to see Sasha as a mere self-portrait, but would be unfair to just see Good Morning Midnight as just a disguised memoir, because it isn't.
Today I must be careful, today I have left my armour at home. Little by little everything turns to break her. How she suffers in isolation and feels conjoined and yet detached with all that is damned and discarded and how this leads to an intensification of the loneliness she feels. Defenseless, willing to run away from this and everything, every moment of living chased and cursed by unkindness, condescension and mockery. As if everyone who is a part of this ruthless world has merged into that
It is not just the loneliness, it’s the inability to pull oneself out of it, of making nothing out of her youth, of pouring out her existence into the vapidness of the Parisian cafes, seedy hotel rooms.
Something that would mean a symbolic relief from the past, the present, the sadness and the loneliness.Its all right.
This hostility that slits open her wounds and makes her crumble into the dampness of tears and pain.You want to know what I am afraid of?
… Well, dear madame, to tell you the truth, what I want here is a drink – I rather think two, perhaps three.It is cold and dark outside, and everything has gone out of me except misery.‘A Pernod’, I say to the waiter.He looks at me in a sly, amused way when he brings it.God, it’s funny, being a woman!
I know I don’t succeed, but look how hard I try.
~ Emily Dickenson>>>>You know what feeling always does me in?
When I start feeling lonely it’s hard for me to snap out of it.
I tend to wallow in it for awhile; put For Emma, Forever Ago on the stereo (who’s lonelier than a broken hearted guy recording an album by himself in a cabin in Wisconsin in the middle of winter?), open a bottle of Pinot, snuggle up to my cat and tell him all of my troubles.
Maybe ‘The Double Life of Veronique.’Why in a world full of people must we feel so damned lonely sometimes?
Good Morning, Midnight takes it’s title from the Emily Dickenson poem above.
Who was lonelier than Emily Dickenson?
Jean understood Emily and I understand Jean.
This is one of Rhys’s earlier works and is popularly described as modernist; its title comes from an Emily Dickinson poem;Good morning, Midnight!I'm coming home,Day got tired of me –How could I of him?Sunshine was a sweet place,I liked to stay –But Morn didn't want me – now –So good night, Day!It is the story of Sasha Jensen who in her mid age goes back to the haunts of her youth in Paris.
The descriptions of the seedy hotel and its denizens are brilliantly drawn as are the gigolos who mistake Sasha for a wealthy woman.The novel is about loneliness; but, of course we are all alone, even surrounded by people and Rhys knew that.
If you trip and fall into bed (it was already there) and cry and have it all out and then get up again and feel all the eyes staring on you because you MUST look like you've fallen apart and it's much worse that this is the normal to get back to and everyone must know that it's not the end of the world and your normal at all (how awful it's not even the end) is not a flash in anyone's fire.
Rating: A grudging full 1* of fiveThe Publisher Says: In 1930s Paris, where one cheap hotel room is very like another, a young woman is teaching herself indifference.
I think one needs to be a woman to appreciate Jean Rhys.
I think one needs to be a Lifetime/WE/Oxygen viewer to appreciate Jean Rhys.Sophia is a fallen woman returning to the scene of the crimes she committed in her youth.
Loneliness, teaches one of a new language.
And to express is to feel lonelier still.And when hear those questions from her eyes looking at a distance far beyond the next street, the next city, or beyond the Channel to another country.Her words resonating...Can I help if my heart beats to a rhythm of its own.
And if you hear it, if you understand it a little you know far too much.
And between these two,madness.Madness that comes crawling,waiting for you to let it in.Inside your head, and under your tongue.In the thoughts you dont speak,And in the words you don't mean.And when the world leaves you alone, it is only the madness that awaits you in your bed.
SECOND ARRESTFrom the Beckenham Recorder, 1 April 1948:“I lost my head and threw a brick through the window because her dog, a killer and a fighter, attacked my cat,” said Elle Gwendoline Hamer (56), a writer, of 35 Southend Road, Beckenham, accused at Bromley on Thursday, of breaking a pane of glass, value £5, belonging to Mrs Rose Hardiman, of 37 Southend Road.
THIRD ARREST12 April 1949 – Bromley Magistrates Court.
According to Jean he said“I see you didn’t like what happened in court today.
On 5th November this appeared in the New Statesman :Jean Rhys (Mrs Tilden Smith) author of Voyage in the Dark, After Leaving Mr Mackenzie, Good Morning Midnight, etc.
I read this right after reading  The Abandoned Baobab , and I found the structure and even the mood strikingly similar. Although Rhys' protagonist is a white woman and does not share Ken's experience as a colonized subject, Rhys herself originated from Dominica which had been under British rule (Dominica is one of the most magical places I have ever been to. I went on a tour there on my 24th birthday, which fell by mad luck on the day off at the end of my training week when I worked at sea). Lik
However, while Dostoevsky ontologises his subject's alienation, likening it to a 'disease' of 'hyperconsciousness', Rhys locates her protagonist's alienation in the social and material circumstances of her life""Rhys' representation of the Underground as a fluid space of memory challenges Dostoevsky's view of the subject as split from his body, from his language and from the world of others"As Tomasulo points out, in contrast to Dostoevsky's underground man who withholds his servant's wages and strikes his driver, Sasha is enabled by her experience of poverty & victimisation to empathise with others worse or as badly off, such as the mixed-race woman she meets in the hallway of her building, the elderly woman shopping for a hat with her daughter, and the waitress she observes in a café.
Reputation.What doesn't kill you will make you fucked up in the head.They get to them young, you see. They'll believe anything you say.A woman lasts as long as her looks, and then I'm afraid she's no good anymore. You mustn't talk, you mustn't think, you must stop thinking. Of course, it is like that. But they are such sensitive, delicate creatures! Of course we must protect them from the world of self-sufficiency!She was asking for it, wearing that sort of thing.Did you see her? Coming in here
Of course we must protect them from the world of self-sufficiency!She was asking for it, wearing that sort of thing.Did you see her?
I'm surprised she had the cheek to show her face.What kind of place is this anyways, letting someone like her in?A man needs that sort of thing, you know.
Especially when they've taught you nothing else.Behind every man, there is a great woman who was never stripped of her worth and left to fend for herself in infamy when he decided that he was sick of dealing with her self conformed by every whim and fancy of a patriarchal world.How was I supposed to know she didn't want it?
As usual, I find myself with nothing to say about a classic novel except that it deserves its status as a classic; I wish I'd read it sooner, though I can't decide whether I'd have appreciated it more or less when I was younger; and it will stick with me for a long time.
Very simply written but it often feels profound in a quite startling way.
I had escaped again.“My life, which seems so simple and monotonous, is really a complicated affair of cafés where they like me and cafés where they don’t, streets that are friendly, streets that aren’t, rooms where I might be happy, rooms where I shall never be, looking-glasses I look nice in, looking-glasses I don’t, dresses that will be lucky, dresses that won’t, and so on.”I am desperate to move away from writing these kind of reviews, but unfortunately I can’t help but look for myself in the books I read.
I know I don't succeed, but look how hard I try.And don't be stupider and yell at them either.Every word I say has chains round its ankles; every thought I think is weighted with heavy weights.
And mind you, I know that with all this I don't succeed.
...But think how hard I try and how seldom I dare.
Rosy, wooden, innocent cruelty.Sasha Jensen is the raw, less refined reality to Hermann Hesse's misanthropic Harry Haller.
People have that rosy, wooden, innocent cruelty.
Rosy, wooden, innocent cruelty.--March 19, 2015
Una donna che invecchia persa tra squallide stanze d’albergo, brandelli di ricordi, echi di dolori, tentativi di cappellini, gli sguardi indifferenti, un vicino cattivo, dei russi improbabili, un probabile gigolò e troppi, troppi Pernod. A Parigi. Mi è piaciuto in modo allarmante.
We fought sometimes, Jean and I.
From the beginning we're aware that things in Sasha's world are shit.
In first person narration Sasha brings her world to life, gives us the skinny on why things are in fact as bad as they seem.
Sasha is a damaged person and though she has a bad habit of trusting the wrong people, despite her own wariness, she does not yet trust us her readers.
Sometimes Sasha would feel extra sorry for herself.
I got to know Sasha in four acts.
By the final act, I found myself reaching out desperately for her.
IntroductionPublisher's Note in the 1967 André Deutsch edition--Good Morning, Midnight
However, I will say that I think her character's thoughts and emotions were communicated perfectly.Apparantly at the time of publication, the critics praised the writing of this book, but said that it was unenjoyable due to its depressing subject matter.
We see her drinking alone in bars, going out with different men (including a gigolo), and generally come to terms with her existence as a solitary woman, and I appreciated that vision created by Rhys.I'm glad I read this first, and didn't start with Wide Sargasso Sea, undoubtedly her most well-known and possibly most popular novel.
Men are pigs. Cheers!
Jean Rhys escolheu o título para o romance publicado em 1937 ”Bom-dia, Meia-noite” de um poema de Emily Dickinson, uma poesia triste que revela o tom de uma obra dominada pela solidão, pela tristeza e pela melancolia.
A narrativa de ”Bom-dia, Meia-noite”, tal com a sua narradora, não é mais do que um relato desconexo de vivências diárias e recordações dolorosas, profundamente reflexivas por uma mulher desesperadamente só, interrompendo sistematicamente em lágrimas, que tenta fugir à insanidade mental, mas onde se anteve uma réstia de esperança no futuro.
Jean Rhys is shockingly elegant. She brilliantly confuses, and gives grace and redemption - a strange, ill-begotten contentment that isn't really contentment at all but hot, fiery hunger and anger and despair - to deeply sad characters. Her storytelling is tight, flawless, and unflinching. It's like a visit to the eye doctor - the doctor looks straight back to the retina and sees darkness.
Group Read - 2015: The Year of Reading Women
first part was so hard to get into, the next ones were easier. Part 3 was my favourite one of those books I didn't really like reading but enjoyed talking aboutMC needing to have a drink everytime something went wrong was relatable
Sasha has been sent to Paris for a few weeks by a British friend who is worried about her.
In a stream-of-consciousness telling, Sasha thinks back about her unhappy marriage, the death of her baby boy, her abandonment by her husband, and her unsuccessful attempts at employment.
In the 1930s women were very dependent on men and had few opportunities.Sasha is hit by memories of earlier times in Paris everywhere she goes.
The story seems to have some semi-autobiographical elements since Jean Rhys was an alcoholic who also had unhappy marriages, suffered through the death of a newborn son, and went through a destitute time in Paris.
A novel of desperation, alienation and grief, with a conclusion that describes with astonishing acuity the heartbreaking struggle and acceptance of the human condition.“Saved, rescued and with my place to hide in - what more did I want?
Without a word he gets into it, bangs the door and drives off, leaving me standing there on the pavement.And did I mind?
If you think I minded, then you've never lived like that, plunged in a dream, when all the faces are masks and only the trees are alive and you can almost see the strings that are pulling the puppets.
Close-up of human nature - isn't it worth something?”“'West African masks?''Yes, straight from the Congo...
