https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25592.The_Hinge_of_Fate
Back in 1940, when Britain was under siege and things looked almost desperate, he made a terrific strategic decision: not to go all-out on defence, but move tanks so as to be able to hold Egypt.
We won the Battle of Britain; the USSR and the US entered the war on our side; and Egypt held.
Needless to say, Churchill doesn't ignore it, but it's also hard to feel he gives it the correct weight.At least, those are my thoughts when looking back at the book.
When I read it, I was so swept away by the narrative that I couldn't help accepting Churchill's version of events at face value.
After the first three volumes focused on one disaster after another, Churchill leads the reader to what he feels is the turning point of the war.
(Churchill on Moscow)This is not a book for those simply wanting a quick review of World War II.
If one had no idea of the eventual outcome of the war, it becomes clear that the tide had begun to turn in favour of the Allies.
Tobruk fell back into German hands and Britain faced a grave situation, despite earlier overconfident assurances Churchill had received from his commanding general there.There is no doubt that, in any other circumstances, heads should have rolled on the discovery that one of Britain's most valuable bases was lost in good measure because it was set up to be practically impregnable to a sea attack, but all of its defenses folded because no one thought far enough ahead to plan for a land-ward threat.
The tide had changed, but as Churchill continued to warn, the road to triumph was still to be long, costly and arduous.Page 493 (my book) June, 1942We had survived the collapse of France and the attack on Britain.
the catastrophe of Singapore, the Japanese conquest of Burma, Auchinleck’s defeat in the Desert, the surrender of Tobruk, the failure, as it was judged, at Dieppe – all these galling links in a chain of misfortune and frustration to which no parallel could be found in our history.Churchill was much on the road visiting Washington, going to Casablanca and from there to Cairo, and a long journey to Moscow (with a stopover in Teheran) to visit Stalin.
We didn't have very effective anti-submarine defense at the time and they picked off ships at will.
Even to the point of picking and choosing which ships to sink.
All I have heard is we were never attacked on American soil except for Pearl Harbor (which almost doesn't count) and 9-11.
We tend to edit out losing things from our histories I suppose.I knew that the desert war turned around at El Alamein, but I never knew just how close to Cairo and all the important stuff in Egypt it was.
After this they didn't lose any major battles.
I say compose, because he perfected a system during the first war, which revealed its efficacy more than ever in the second, of working through secretaries.
There are many odd anecdotes told about Churchill, not the least of which is that his secretaries, sometimes working in rotation throughout much of the night, were obliged to attend to him and take down what he said, even in the bath.
In fact, his relationship with the Russian leader is one of the most interesting sources of anecdotal references throughout this series.This is history being well told by a man who was, while perhaps not a trained historian as such, so steeped in the history of his family and his country, that he an utterly unique point of view.
This is the fourth volume in Winston Churchill's monumental work on the Second World War. This is not history of a grand scope, but rather, Churchill's personal memoir of the war.
In fact, Winston Churchill was the first major British politician to have made his living as a reporter and writer.
Use a dictionary or an electronic reader with a built in dictionary; some of his language is a bit archaic.One downside: Amazon has apparently scanned the physical volume to make its Kindle edition and sometimes errors occurred.
Having been a fan of Churchill this became a must read.
During the time I have been reading this book I have learned some other things about him from another perspective.
Churchill's tendency to meddle in areas outside of his domain was what cost him his job before the war but also led to his success during it.
He even goes so far as to suggest a title for the film.I'm still a big fan of Churchill and admire his courage and moxy but I can also see how that could be taken as arrogance and meddling.
I have read almost every one of Churchill's books. Reading any of them is like going to a technicolor movie.
He defends his management of the Eastern war (which ended in total collapse at the hits of the Japanese army); the disastrous campaigns in North Africa (where Rommel plays the non-commitment of the British generals and re-gains, while using few troops but novel tactics with armored troops, all the territory the British have conquered from the hapless Italians); the non-intervention in Europe; the disaster at Dieppe (good learning experience, in the opinion of Churchill); etc.
It's interesting to read about the campaign in the Mediterranean and how little weight my own history education put on it.
Another interesting episode mentioned in this volume is the Katyn Massacre, where 22,000 Poles were found in mass graves in occupied Poland.
Churchill seems to hint that he thinks it more likely that the Soviets were the ones who had committed the massacre, but he also leaves it up to the reader to decide.
In the 1990s, however, it was discovered that Stalin had ordered the massacre (which was not just of soldiers, but also land owners, factory owners, clergy, and the like).
On the other hand, he frequently acknowledges that Russia is tying up large numbers of Nazi battalions that could and likely otherwise would have been thrown against Britain; and he drives home the message that once the Nazis had been obliterated in North Africa it is incumbent on Britain and the United States to engage all their combined forces to attack Hitler through invasion of Sicily and Italy and thereby bring some relief to Russia.You can almost feel the embarrassment that Churchill felt upon the fall of Singapore to the Japanese: "...
The volume of work was impressive but not anywhere near what Churchill considered necessary.
Just finished this shorter version with 4 volumes instead of original 6.
Not sure about the original, but this shorter version is already very detailed and well written.Gives you another perspective on how WW2 went through the eyes of Churchill.
Set aside all plans and battles, most interesting thing here is how Churchill was able to explain virtually every single decision he made during those tough years.
He rarely blamed the outcome, instead he was always criticizing thought process of many other politicians, be it British or foreign.
So even if all 4 books were brilliant, I still want to mention him personally - he truly is a great icon of freedom.
The cover is not the same as my edition which may have been purchased as a set as all 6 volumes are the same without a dust jacket.
As in other volumes in the series the description of ongoing behind the scenes activities is quite different from the usual books on the conduct of a war.
Although he was a soldier, and at one time First Lord of the Admiralty, Churchill's history of this great event are from the view of one of the greatest statesmen of all time.
I recently finished reading Winston Churchill's Volume 4 of the Second World War entitled The Hinge of Fate. Great book loaded with insight from all the main characters of this historical event. I didn't realize everything that Great Britain did to insure the Allied victory but now I do.
Book 4 of his 6 part WWII history. This one focuses on the war in northern Africa and the workings of the allies - UK, Russia, and USA
Really enjoyed this book and learned so much firsthand about strong leadership. Relationships and empathy also figure in this history of 1942 and much of 1943.
Wonderful!!
Yes.
As Churchill acknowledges himself, the first part describes a particular bad period for the British, as they quickly lost all their far eastern colonies to Japan, and were driven back into Egypt by Rommel's Afrika Corps.
Despite all the war worries, Churchill even finds time to paint a first picture of the United Nations (chapter XLIV), and to envision a United Europe (chapter XXXI).
I look forward to a United States of Europe in which the barriers between the nations will be greatly minimised and unrestricted travel will be possible.
The fourth of six volumes in this series focuses on the US entry into the war.
This might well be because until the battle of El Alamein there was not much for the allies to glorify (perhaps the astonishing 'Dunkirk Retreat' across the channel).Nevertheless, Churchill - true to form - sticks to facts and figures and once again manages to convert tons of relatively dry material into an interesting read.I do read other books in parallel, but find myself coming back to this series frequently.
Being an American I enjoyed reading about the first major US involvement in the ground war in the operation Torch in North Africa.
It is amazing how the tide turned in the both North Africa, Russia, and the Pacific, from tremendous setbacks by German and Japanese advancement.
I was impressed at how much shuttle diplomacy Churchill was doing with the USA and other countries, it is also enjoyable to read the letters between Churchill and Roosevelt.
I didn't realize how much control Hitler had of the German army strategy which resulted in some tremendous defeats and surrenders in Russia and North Africa when the army should have retreated to better positions.
This account stands alone in a genre not commonly attempted: the voluntary revelation of one's choices and actions during a moment of tremendous testing, a moment when those choices and actions could easily be second-guessed.
But what gives these books there power is the tremendous amount of primary material in them -- letters and papers written during the actual events -- with only short introductory and connecting accounts to give the context.
This is not merely Churchill self-interpreting and self-congratulating; it truly allows for responsibility and accountability.
What is astonishing is, despite the monumental stakes, Churchill rarely evidences any doubt or misgivings.
Volume 4 of 6 describes the Allied victory in North Africa as the "Hinge of Fate" on which the ultimate fortunes of the combatants in Western Europe were determined.
The power of these volumes for me comes from the correspondence and anecdotes among the Big Three (Churchill, Roosevelt, and Stalin).
One such anecdote tells of President Roosevelt in a state of flow while working on his stamp collection at Shangri La (aka Camp David) seemingly relieved (temporarily) from the cares of a world war in full flame around the globe.
So far in this book, having read through the year 1942 in the WWII, I have a new appreciation of how difficult the struggle of winning the war was for the Allies.
Surprisingly, with all of the defeats the Allies suffered in the first six or nine months of that year, Churchill continued to profess complete confidence in victory, primarily because of the entrance of the United States into the war.
His trials in dealing with Stalin are interesting and at times humorous if not exasperating, and the evolving relationship between these two giants of the war is instructive.
What a rousing work of inspiration from a great man. From going from having a vote of confidence about his conduct of the war to the great victory in Tunisia, Mr Churchill was put through the ringer during the year of 1942 covered in this book. Through it all, Churchill never lost faith in himself, which speaks to his great powers of resolve and resolution. Although parts are self-serving (could he go on about the Norway project any more), this is truly a great work of historical scholarship by one of the greatest people of the 20th century. Highly recommended!
This is the fourth book of six volumes of Churchill's WWII memoirs. The first six months after Pearl Harbor the allies suffer defeat after defeat from German and Japanese forces. Then the tide turns, America sees victories in the Pacific and England sees victories in Europe. Churchill and Roosevelt worry about German scientists discovering a new weapon (the atomic bomb). This is an exciting vlume in the set because the pace of the war picks up and CHurchill and Roosevelt must make a lot of decisions plus find the commanders that will bring victory.
Britain's fight against the Axis from Pearl Harbour to the conquest of Tunis (Dec 41-April 43), as narrated (and telegramed) by Churchill.Essentially a diplomatic and administrative history rather than a narrative or military one, this volume continues the intriguing history of Churchill in the war. Very notable for the off-the-cuff remarks between Churchill and Roosevelt on (amongst other things) Stalin.Churchill really did like a good war. He enjoyed himself immensely.Rated G. 3/5
Churchill's masterful 4th volume of WWII, continues the narrative of WWII, and documents the turning points of the war. Roughly tracing the events of 1942, Churchill details the setbacks of early 1942, and the successes of the later part of the year. A truly magnificent account, told from the British perspective of how worry and concern turned into expectation of victory throughout that pivotal year.
The hinge Churchill refers to is 1942 and the first half of 1943. He talks about the many conferences he had with the American war leaders, like the "Trident" conference, where Churchill talks about his ideas for post-war alliances, and for a Supreme World Council, supported by regional councils in Europe, the Pacific and the Americas. He also talked about a United States of Europe, where people could travel freely, just like the U.S.I'm left wondering how he'd feel about the European Union
