https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54143.Lost_City_of_the_Incas
He became an explorer in Peru, then an aviator, ending up as a U.S. Senator representing his home state of Connecticut.Lost City of the Incas, although copyrighted in 1948, covers several expeditions Hiram III undertook between 1911 and 1915, during which he claims to have discovered the ruins of Machu Picchu.
Using The National Geographic and the prestige of his sponsors at Yale University, Bingham made the ruins well known.Curiously, he thought he had discovered Old Vilcabamba, where the Incas who fled Spanish control ruled from, but that site was actually in the jungle at Espiritu Pampa.
Interesting to read a first hand account by a legendary figure of archaeology.
He paints a colourful picture of the rugged mountain countryside in which he travelled, with its tangled vegetation and sparse population making the visibility of ruins almost impossible.I believe his reputation had been damaged a bit by the time of this book - firstly for his claim that he 'discovered' Machu Picchu, when, in reality, he was the first person to bring the lost city to the attention of the West.
Later authors have critiqued his findings and disputed his claims, most importantly his assertion that Machu Picchu was the capital of the last Inca ruler.
wow. this book is completely insane. such an interesting window into the attitudes of educated white people towards other civilizations and indigenous people. bingham writes well and is a great storyteller. and he makes me incredibly embarrassed. highly recommended reading for anyone interested in archaeology, race studies, indigenous studies, class studies...
He tries really hard to make Machu Picchu into something not only wonderful in its own right, but also in historical terms--it's the lost/last city of the Incas, to which they fled when the Spanish arrived.
The best is when his privilege slips through and you get a sense of how difficult the journeys were, but how some people had it worse than he did.
You get the sense that he had to tell the story this way if he wants to seem all-powerful (which he totally does), because the initial discovery visit only lasted a few hours and there were already people living there anyway.
Great introduction to Machu Picchu.
However, Bingham was a bit wrong on some things.
The city was never for women only.
Although he found 3/4 of the graves were female, that was corrected later.
He called it Vilcabamba, which was the last place of Manco Inca after he fled Cuzco.
But it is still an excellent way to understand the importance of Machu Picchu.
Bingham originally from Hawaii, gives an idealistic and vivid picture of his find.
Of course, he was not the first to 'find' the city.
The locals knew about it but they were just farmers and did not attach any importance to the ruins.
Great book. It was actually written back in the 50's, so not only is it a fascinating look at the discovery of Macchu Picchu, but it's also a look back at the way the discoverer (Bingham) thought and worked during the early 1900's. There's a modern introduction in this edition that lets you know Bingham didn't quite get all his facts straight, but that doesn't detract from the rest of the book in any way. It made me want to go and explore the wild of the Andes.
An interesting read to know more about Machu Picchu. I bought the book in Peru just a few days before visiting the site. It starts with a nice introduction about the Incas and then does a nice job in describing the moments of the discovery.As of today it's known that many facts are wrong, the book is a great read and it's worth it.
The first part of this book, where Bingham describes the culture and customs of the Incas is really interesting. The second part, where he details his explorations is a bit dry. I didn't feel the need to finish this book.
Para redactar esta primera parte del libro, Bingham se basa en todos los conocimientos que se tenian sobre los Incas, mas que nada provenientes de los relatos antiguos asi como tambien por el estudio detallado de los articulos encontrados en las ciudades en ruinas.
Esta parte del libro, para mi, fue quiza la mas atrapante de todas, sobre todo la historia de los ultimos cuatro Incas.A partir de este punto, el libro se mete de lleno en las expediciones que llevaron a Bingham a encontrar ruinas que se habian perdido con el paso del tiempo y a identificar zonas que permanecian inexploradas dentro del Peru.
:)I had not known that the famous site (one of the New 7 Wonders of the World) was in fact a late home for the Virgins of the Sun, the special class of young women, hand picked from among the nobility's daughters to serve the needs of the Inca (the Emperor), his family and other high positioned nobles and priests (the inner circle).
It is believed that it was initially meant to be the private estate of The Inca Pachacuti (1438–1472) - the same emperor who decided to name Ollantaytambo after his general, after the general had a heart attack and died there (this last bit as per my Peruvian guide, and not from this book).
A classic, of course, though I only found out about it after visiting Machu Picchu, which is a pity since you can't appreciate the contrast between the city before your eyes and that described in painstaking detail and with lavish praise by Bingham a posteriori.The pace of the book is not fast; only in the third and last part does the storyteller come to the central point, and then sometimes the detail is a bit excessive, unless you have a map by your side.
Machu Picchu was never "lost": it was simply forgotten by most people, and known only to some who didn't normally matter to European and American explorers.
The book starts with an summary of Incan history, particularly its last days and the arrival of the Spanish, which was immensely interesting and very useful as I'm not that familiar with the Incans.
Even this part of the book was easy to read and follow and brought the final days of these people to life, which is a skill in itself and often something lacking many historical accounts.
A thoroughly enjoyable read.
It bothers me that he didn't actually discover Machu Picchu, Locals had been farming the land for years, French treasure seekers had been there prior, And a French traveller had published a reference book on "Matcho" Picchu.
He was directed the actual site site by local farmers.What Bingham did was give it notariety, he researched it, promoted it, and wrote numerous articles that gained him fame.Augustine Lizarraga is the actual discover of Machu Picchu, his name was scrawled across the ruins in 1902.
Years before Bingham arrived.The book still is a worthy read as he gets into the various Emperors, and the Spanish conquest.
We live now in a universe stripped of mystery; perhaps the depths of the ocean retain some secrets.
With satellites and telescopes, we have peeked into every crevice or at the most distant stars.
It is intoxicating, then, to be transported back to a time where hidden cities of gold may be hiding just over yonder mountain.
At times the level of detail is frustrating for the casual reader and lovers of guinea pigs may recoil at the tales of Inca master chefs.
It is a succinct and educational introduction into the mystery of Machu Picchu.
Excellent presentation of Bingham's journals and work regarding his 1909-1912 expeditions and the 1913 publication of his findings. Beware, you'll need to read more current information as new research contradicts some of his findings about the inhabitants of Machu Picchu and his misidentification of that site as the "Lost City of the Incas." This does not, however, lessen the importance of his work and findings. It's often said that he is the inspiration for the Indiana Jones film character.
I hope to visit Machu Picchu some day, so was interested in reading the chronicles of the discoverer of the ancient ruins. This book goes into much detail of how he found the ruins, what he found there, discoveries of ancient roads leading to the site, and his interpretation of what was found. I would be interested in reading a current book on the site. (This one was published in 1948.)
Un auténtico libro de aventuras arqueológicas, pues no se limita a una exhaustiva descripción de la grandiosa ciudad perdida, sino que narra a detalle el viaje que lo llevó a ella, las anécdotas que lo rodearon y los paisajes que atravesó su expedición. Imperdible para amantes de los viajes y la arqueología.
Despite all the vices of the occidental explorer's vision from the early XXth century, Hiram Bingham transmits to the reader all his contagious amazement and admiration for the Incas wonders. Enough merit to accompany him in this adventure.I particularly recommend the Centenary Edition, which includes Hugh Thomson's brief introduction to "Bingham's Photographs of Machu Picchu".
It's interesting to hear from the explorer himself as he describes the Peruvian Andes and his time exploring. Got a bit receptive and you can tell some of the incidents are a bit dramatized. But still a good pre-Peru read.
Great book written by Hiram Bingham who discovered Machu Picchu in 1911... about the discovery of Machu Picchu. Very interesting....
Some interesting knowledge, especially about the last Incas, but also about how Bingham found his way to Machu Picchu. Unfortunately it's hard to trust much of it.
I found it a bit tough to get through. It probably didn’t help that I just re-watched the Indiana series of movies before reading.
Slow, out dated, historical
Great historyHaving just gone to Peru this was a great insight into the real in a story this is highly recommended
Some extraneous information here but if anyone is interested in the Inca's, their history, culture and importance to civilization Bingham is where to start!
An interesting account by the author and explorer who discovered the ancient site of Machu Picchu.
Fascinating book; thoroughly engrossing
Apparently, this whole 21 December 2012 business isn't incan.
I’ve always heard about Hirim Bingham because of his re discovery of Machu Pichu. I’m fascinated b
In this book, decades later, near the end of his life, he relates the circumstances surrounding that discovery.I'm sorry to say, I'm not that impressed by Hiram Bingham.He inclines towards making the fundamental mistake of looking for evidence to match his conclusions, rather than the other way around.
(He wanted the city he found to be the city he was looking for, even though there was sufficient evidence that it was in the wrong place.) The book starts with a fairly interesting account of various aspects of Inca technology, but on page 47, when he gets to pottery, he comes up with another whopper.
He notes that in Northern Peru, before the Incas, the pottery included depictions of the human form.
