https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153163.The_Old_Fox_Deceiv_d
The dividing line can be close, if a grim case and intelligent writing are diluted by banter.
Melrose Plant’s aunt-by-marriage was a page-waster, in tedious superfluity that reduced the seriousness of the début.“The Old Fox, Deceiv’d” sticks to the two key heroes, gives us an emotional dose of Richard Jury’s personal past and current home life, in which he keeps watch over neighbours who are nervous about crime.
This novel is firmly a “standard adult mystery” and hailing from 1982, does a fantastic job of discussing other moral topics.
Solving the case requires pieces from lots of angles, which the team divides & conquers.
While I enjoyed the first Richard Jury book and rated it 4 stars, I didn't quite understand why it was a favorite of my niece and her Mom, two of my mystery book buddies.
I liked this for all the reasons listed in my review of the first in the series, The Man With a Load of Mischief.
Those things I love in a murder mystery were amplified in this book #2 with none of the things that drove me crazy in book #1.
How much did I like this book?
I'm declaring this a favorite series!
On to book #3!
I am so glad, after having discovered the Richard Jury series in the middle range of the books currently published, that I went back to the beginning of the series.
I enjoyed #1, but I particularly liked this book, the second in the series.
It had everything I like in a mystery: intriguing setting, surprising characters, good character and story development, very well-written and sometimes amusing interactions between the primary characters, some plot twists, a satisfying conclusion yet one with not all of the loose ends so perfectly tied up as to be unbelievable.
Great reading anytime, but especially for a moody, quiet, gray day.
An enjoyable, entertaining, easy book.
'"Sounds a right muddle", said Superintendent Racer after Jury had filled him in on the Rackmoor case' features on page 194 of this book.
Never a truer word was spoken and the muddle continues right through to page 308 (the end).Rackmoor is a north Yorkshire village where a murder takes place on Twelfth Night.
The partygoers are all in fancy dress and it eventually turns out that the clue to the murder lies in the costumes and make-up that are worn.
But it is a long and weary road to that conclusion with all sorts of seemingly unrelated incidents and pretty boring characters along the way.
i couldn't find a copy of this book at any of my local libraries so i ended up listening to it on tape (read by tim curry who did a FANTASTIC job and caused me to seek out other books read by him...i'm excited because he apparently did a lot of the richard jury books and his voice suits these wry brittish mysteries so well).
i love the relationship between plant and jury and there was very little time for interaction between them on the audio version.
my mind also has a tendency to wander when i am listening to audio books so i end up zoning out and missing things.
I loved Martha Grimes's The Man With A Load of Mischief and decided to try the second of her mysteries, The Old Fox Deceiv'd, which employs some of the same likeable characters in a similar English setting.
I ran out of paper and patience after jotting down 21 bios without knowing who was to be important to the plot (turns out half my list were unimportant characters and some whom I neglected to list were important).
There were lots of twists and turns, mistaken identities and humor to keep the plot moving but it never quite equaled her first book for me…and all that writing made my hand ache.
Not sure how much of it is too blame on the attrocious German translation but I didn't really connect with this book despite the engaging mystery and the interesting characters. I also was a bit confused because parts of it were quite light-hearted and others were quite dark, including most of the characters backs-tories.Might give this series another try but not very soon.
A chill, foggy late Twelfth Night becomes infinitely scarier after a body is discovered in a most unusual spot in a tiny Yorkshire fishing village near the sea.
And what a tangled web is woven!
For instance, who is the murder victim, really?
The cast of potential murderers is rather broad for such a tiny town.
We get to know, and love, some delightful characters, and as the tangled web branches out we learn much of village secrets and odd goings on, some of which trace back through the years.
And Melrose Plant is so charming, his charm exudes from the pages.
Another interesting mystery with Jury and Plant with crisp writing and vivid scenes, with a spot of wit thrown it as well.First Melrose had made quite sure that Julian would be going for his morning walk by offering to accompany him.
Julian had given him the same look he might have used had Melrose offered to share his bath water.
Walking for an hour on the moors (as Julian said he intended to do) when one could be sitting by a warm fire drinking Cockburn's Very Superior Port seemed to Melrose the act of a madman, but it would give him an opportunity to undertake his search.
As he followed Wood, Jury thought: one disappearance, two auto accident victims, one in a mental institution, one drowned. One murdered. Rackmoor, for all its bracing sea air, didn’t seem the healthiest place in the British Isles.” This is the kind of book you read while curled up on the couch under a cozy blanket with a steaming cup of tea. Just burrow down and enjoy the ride. Love this series. I think Plant outshines Jury! A great, atmospheric mystery!
This is a difficult book to rate. It never really caught me like some mysteries. You know the type, the books that by chapter two you're committed to staying up all night to finish the book even though you have a job interview the next morning at 8 am. The mystery was appropriately twisty. The characters interesting. It was overall good but a bit plodding.
It’s almost as if the author was being deliberately heavy handed, trying to show off to the reader and/or prove the depth of her research.Locale aside, Grimes writes novels that are character-driven.
The major characters of Jury, Plant and Wiggins have traveled from the first novel to this one.
And Grimes makes the murder part of this novel a standalone situation – begun, processed and solved in one book with no major plot threads hanging on to fuel a future plot line.
And, oh, by the way, when you have finished the last page of the book, go back and read those first 5 scenes again.
The quiet, unassuming English village once again proves to be a very dangerous place.As in Martha Grimes' first entry in her Inspector Richard Jury series, which I just read earlier this week, we find that Rackmoor has its full complement of eccentric residents, several of whom have potential motives for murder and all of whom seem to have strong opinions about the murdered woman, as well as some of the tragedies of earlier years which have possibly led up to this particular murder.
Points about the series - Inspector Jury works for the Murder Squad in Scotland Yard and finds himself sent around the UK to work on cases; his boss Superintendent Racer is a bit of a flash and doesn't like Jury; Jury regularly gets assistance from his friend, Lord Melrose Plant which adds a nice twist; and the story titles all are based on a pub in the locale of the mystery.So there you go.
The case brings Jury back to London to find out more about Gemma Plant and also to find out more about young Bertie.
The series is quite formulaic in many ways - there are always children, dogs or cats, and the same group of characters always put in an appearance: Richard Jury, who is a nice policeman, Melrose Plant who has given up his title (but it's always referred to because it always comes in handy to impress), Plant's ghastly aunt, and others.
As the series goes on these people spend more and more time sitting around, while sub-plots accrue around them.The Old Fox Deceiv'd is an early excursion - only Jury and Plant really feature, and events happen relatively straightforwardly.
Jury's angst is beginning to be established, though, as he frets about impending promotion.One of the things I like about the series is that they aren't focussed on London.
I love Martha Grimes theme of placing murders in towns with unique pubs, and I especially love Jury traveling from town to town to solve them.
I listened to this book on audio, so as far as narration goes, seriously Steve West is unreal.
The fact that Richard Jury will be going from town to town solving murders in a series of almost 2 dozen novels means we will be introduced to dozens and dozens of characters.
Steve West is by far in the top of his class and the perfect narrator to perform this series.
Light, comical, enjoyable mystery with engaging characters, although Jury's ability to turn women into jello is a bit tiresome. Still, it's worth a read for the humor and the very engaging little boy. Grimes often has her heroes, Jury and Plant, interact with children in a delightful and highly realistic way.One off thing: this series is set in England, but the author is an American. Once in a while, what seems to be an "Americanism" sort of interferes with the illusion; of course, as an American, I'm not sure if the British would use the expressions or not.
I love the Richard Jury series.
I first read these books about 20-years ago and after they became available for the Kindle I decided to reread the series (I had forgotten many of the details).
They are just as fun to read now as they were then.
Each book is named after a famous English pub, where some of the action takes place, and all somehow involve a child and a cat.This is the second of the series and I strongly suggest reading the series in order because characters from earlier books, as well as references to cases, popup as the series progresses.
Great Fun!!!!!!!
We find Jury and Melrose looking for a murderer in a fishing village on the coast in Yorkshire.
Their reunion doesn't include Agatha (which for me is a plus, I find that character very annoying) but does include an old pub and a village where the streets are very narrow and twisted.
One can lost herself or himself in them.
The murder mystery is interesting, we have an adorable little boy and his dog (bordering on the too cute, almost).
Still, some red herrings, some smart twists.
I liked it then, I like it now.
Good comfort reading.
3 1/2 stars.
Basically,a woman is killed on Twelfth Night, a woman who purports to be the long-lost ward of Colonel Titus Crael - but who also might be an impostor, hoping for the inheritance meant for the ward, Dillys.We soon meet all the people who might have killed Gemma Temp[=le, the name she was going by: the handsome local painter, the older woman hoping to attain the Colonel's hand in marriage, the Colonel's melancholic son Julian, the longtime housemaid Olive whose son is in a mental institution as a result of Dillys's leaving 18 years ago, and a feisty Irish barmaid with an airtight alibi.
The characters are delightful: Jury, the gentlemanly detective who is haunted yet still enjoys the little things; Wiggins, his oddly insightful, hypochondriac Sergeant; Melrose, the charming and witty aristocrat; and last but not least, the dreaded busybody Aunt Agatha.
Even the characters specific to the case are interesting, as Grimes does her best to imbue them with distinct personalities rather than littering the tale with cardboard cutouts of witnesses and suspects.The case itself is a twisty one.
The suspects are many - just enough people with motive to make figuring things out a challenge for both the leads and the reader.
They all contribute to the plot, there isn't really a single character that eclipses the rest completely.
I know mentioning Louise Penny's series again isn't really relevant, but I think that's where she failed.
Her main character is made out to be so much nobler and better than everyone else.
This is why I think Martha Grimes' Richard Jury series is much, much better.Points go also to the atmosphere.
Martha Grimes knows her village winter apparently.
The descriptions and the weather go marvelously well with the story.Also, I've got to mention Bertie and his dog as another attraction.
Re-read of the second-ever Jury & Plant village mystery, complete with some of the gentry, and some horses and hunts and hotels, and murders, of course, and a plucky 12-year-old boy, and a Twelfth Night setting, and a great pub with its lovely proprietress.
Jury and Plant are not close buddies yet, but the seeds are there and the mystery is intriguing and the solution surprises and satisfies.Enjoyed the metafiction of Maud-the-hopeful-bride-of-the-manor confessing to hanging out in the pub when the writing's not going well, grabbing Wiggins' interest as he asks, "what sorts of things do you write"-->romances he has seen.
If an author writes a character that I can become invested in, I’m hooked.
Now, I can’t wait to get on to the next book in the Richard Jury series, The Anodyne Necklace.
The one disadvantage of listening to a book versus reading a book, is that I have to pay very close attention to the names and descriptions of characters.
If I’m reading a book, I will re-read the various sections introducing the characters so that I have a good handle on who is who.
Of course, I’ve only read two books in the series.
We’ll see what Martha Grimes does in the next few books....
This is a pretty good genre mystery of a particular type, with a smart detective inspector and some funny side characters in a charming/ spooky locale.
The world is very well developed, the writing is mostly brisk, though it's a little odd-- one can't help but feeling like the politics, especially around class, are somewhat retrograde.
But that's only one way that this book feels kind of dated, which isn't surprising given its age.
If that's the kind of thing that's going to bother you, I don't think you'll like the rest of this book.
If you don't care, well, it won't affect your enjoyment much, either.Solid, if a little traditional.
2 in the New Scotland Yard Detective Richard Jury mystery series. At the request of local police, Jury is sent to a small coastal village north of York to investigate a murder. The assignment is more of a punishment by his immediate superior. Joined by Sergeat Wiggins, Jury goes there during a January winter. He finds his friend Melrose Plant staying with the family that is at the center of the investigation and agrees to help find a very wiley murderer.A good mystery with a number of interesting local supporting characters.
A series for those who like British mystery. It seems the character of Richard Jury is beginning to evolve (slowly). Aunt Agatha is a bit stereotypical and very irritating, and Melrose Plant the most rounded of the main characters so far. It almost seems as the author spends more time on the secondary characters--perhaps because they will only show up in this novel. My favs in this one: Bertie and Arnold, his dog.
I love that a library patron where I volunteer recommended this author/series. I love Jury, Plant, and Wiggins. They make a good team. There is even some humor thrown in that made me smile or even laugh. This mystery is intriguing. When I got to the end, I admitted to myself that I should have figured it out. However, I was so into the characters and the setting that I forgot about finding the killer. Recommend!
Martha Grimes' Richard Jury detective stories can be read as stand-alones without missing a beat, but if you enjoy watching the characters grow and change with time and experience, I recommend starting at the beginning and following the series.Richard Jury is one of the few fictional police detectives who isn't an alcoholic, given to tantrums or has shown any other serious character flaws. Jury is not perfect, either, just human enough to be interesting and, at times, inspiring.
