https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22895264-wicked
Jennifer wrote this book, so of course it was fantastic!!!!!
She doesn’t have many people she cares about: her parents and her boyfriend both died and she is now left living alone with a certain brownie (similar to a pixie, since they can fly, but uglier, I think) she found on her path, Tink, killing fae after fae, sometimes along her best friend, Val. Except, one day, she finds herself in front of an Ancient, while those were supposed to be held in the Otherworld only.
Ren, her new partner, will be beside her.I honestly thought Ivy was a good heroine to read about.
Jen has done it again.Where does she come up with this stuff?? I need to dive into her mind for a day to steal some plots, seriously.I've read a lot of fae stories and even written one myself, but Jen's take on the fae? So fun. Just awesome. And Tink might be my favorite character ever, hands down - I got the crazy giggles in some of his scenes.*happy sigh*
4 super sexy stars!!
I'm pretty sure I start off every review for a book that Jla writes by saying something along the lines of this...
Too me it was like the polar opposite of her Dark Elements series and I loved that (I love The Dark Elements)!I just loved that it was so different.Wicked is a paranormal new adult and a first in The Wicked Trilogy.
The relationship between Ren and Ivy is almost insta-love but falls closer to insta-lust.
As for sub characters the main ones are Val and Tink.
Every character in this book is so perfect.
This book was like a sauna!!
*4.5*So good! I need the sequel now!!Wicked is a hot romance set in a world where supernatural creatures exist, and the lovers must put their lives on the line to keep the people of New Orleans safe. The setting is vivid, the characters endearing, and there is a perfect balance of danger and beauty.
I loved the cover but the story was...Ivy Morgan is a red headed Fae hunter who lives in New Orleans.
She is a member of The Order protecting us humans from the lurking Fae. Ivy meets Ren Owens who is new to the area and this chapter of The Order from Colorado.
They slowly fall in love all the while they are working together trying to figure out what is going on with Ancients and their plan to use the gateways to enter our world.The writing just didn’t measure up to the Lux Series to me and the characters were mediocre.
The plot twist was predictable and sadly Jennifer Armentrout didn’t bring anything new to the Fae type stories that I have already read.
4 Tink stars!   “I'm a lot of things, but today I'm your fucking saving grace.”   This one was a nice surprise! After seeing a handful of negative reviews on this one, I went into it with lowered expectations. I came out of this reading experience a very happy girl! And after 2 previous books I DNF'd, I need this gem of a story.First off, this book is very much  New Adult  genre, so don't go into it thinking it's YA. The fact that in Chapter 1 the MC is discussing getting laid and orgasms is th
What I liked: -Ivy: A great mix of kick ass woman with a little but of a vulnerable girl in her, Ivy wants more than the predicted short life span the Order has to offer.
And he wanted Ivy and his pursuit of her was so much fun to read.-Pop culture references: I'm fairly certain that this book is self-published, and I feel because of that JLA was able to include references to Harry Potter, The Walking Dead, Amazon Prime etc, which yes will date this book in the future, but gave the book a unique touch that I rather enjoyed.
Bottom line, if you need a quick, unique New Adult read mixed with a little bit of Urban Fantasy, this book is for you!
As expected, this book rocked!!🖤 Really reminded me of what the shadowhunters do but in this case they're hunting Fae and ancients..
The entire story was fascinating and just overall kickass awesome which made it very hard for me to set it down.
As expected, Ivy and Ren are amazing and I'm already shipping them but my other favorite would seriously have to be Tink.
His personality and views regarding the world around him is awesome!
Loved this story, JLA didn't disappoint, the ending cut me up but can't wait for the 2nd book!
4 Wicked Oh my so deliciously wicked Stars“I'm a lot of things, but today I'm your fucking saving grace.”Kickass heroine ✓Badass hero ✓Tink ✓Action ✓New Orleans ✓Fae ✓Sexy times ✓Cliffhanger OH IT HURTS SO GOOD ✓NEED NEXT NOW!New Series by Jennifer L. Armentrout??Another reason for my excitement... Ren Owens is six feet and three inches of temptation and swoon-inducing charm. Can't wait!!
So by the time I got to the end of Wicked, I couldn't help shaking my head because I had tears pouring down my face.
Ivy is a member of the Order, and while she spent her days going to college, at night she hunted the fae.
"You're going to have to get to know me better before you taste my cake."Ren opened his mouth then closed it a second before he stopped and stepped right in front of me.
And I'm just as excited to see what happens to him in the future books, as I am about Ivy and Ren!
If I wore any color other than black, tan, or gray, I looked like an asylum escapee.Sitting up straight, ignoring how the backs of my thighs stuck to the chair, I made grabby fingers at the iced coffee.
Play a game of hot and cold or something?”“While I love that game most of the time, I’m gonna pass.” Lifting the iced coffee between us, she smiled broadly at me.
“You know I can totally just kick your ass and take the coffee, right?”Val stuck out her lower lip.
Tengo que reconocer que desde que vi la caratula de este libro que deseé leerlo. Además, también había la expectación de estrenar autora, y eso siempre es un añadido. Pero, no sé, al empezar su lectura tuve la sensación de que no nos explicaba nada nuevo, que el argumento en sí era muy predecible y que no iba a sufrir en ningún momento. Como en realidad ha sido. Sin embargo, no puedo negar que me quedé con las ganas de saber cómo continua y eso siempre dice algo positivo.
New JLA book? NEW ADULT PARANORMAL?! With Fae?? Well, hello there, instant *grabby hands* book.  The main character is badass and fierce and the hero is similar to Cam. Freaking, swoon-worthy, amazing Cam. Oh, dear.  And it comes out in December!! Eeeep! This just gets better and better. It's gonna be bloody fantastic, I can tell already.
And as much as liked Ivy she was sometimes naive.
Seriously, I was waiting for Val to betray her since I knew there was a traitor.
Armentrout's books.
I think she knew it deep down, but she didn't want to admit it.I expected Ren to be keeping some serious secret, but it was nothing dangerous.
(hide spoiler)]It had too many similarities with other books.
Still, I liked it.
I liked Ren and Tink too.
He was so freaking adorable (which reminds of another book).
Even though I wasn't surprised, the ending kept me curious enough to want to read the next book ASAP.
Armentrout and I adore or at least like all of her books , I was quite anxious going into this one.
There is always the chance that you won't like a book that much, even, no ESPECIALLY, if you love the author.Wicked sounded interesting, but not that promising.
So, now I'm even happier to be able to tell you: I absolutely loved this book!For me it was always clear that Jennifer's strength doesn't lie in plot, but characters!
Wicked was definitely no exception.Ivy and Ren were simply amazing.
That is something you definitely have to keep in mind going into this book.
No sé si lo dije pero Jennifer Armentrout es una autora que aunque sus novelas no tengan un impacto en tu vida, consiguen engancharte muchísimo y aunque tiene muchos clichés y ves algunas veces hacía donde irán las cosas, sigue sorprendiéndome.
Lynn así que eso explica bastante todos los capítulos subidos de tono, pero como dije, si hay algo que nunca me falla en los libros de esta autora es que enganchan y se pasa genial leerlos.
Jennifer L. Armentrout never fails to surprise me. First aliens, then demigods, followed by gargoyles, and now Fae. IS THERE ANY PARANORMAL CREATURE SHE CAN'T MAKE ME LOVE?! Probably not. Except maybe---owls. I don't think even she could change my mind about owls. And yes, they totally count as paranormal. WICKED is not your average Fae story but it has all the elements I have come to expect and love in a JLA book; strong characters, witty banter, a great story and face fanning romance. It's fa
First aliens, then demigods, followed by gargoyles, and now Fae. IS THERE ANY PARANORMAL CREATURE SHE CAN'T MAKE ME LOVE?!
Except maybe---owls.
WICKED is not your average Fae story but it has all the elements I have come to expect and love in a JLA book; strong characters, witty banter, a great story and face fanning romance.
WICKED is a great start to a new New Adult paranormal series and I CAN.NOT.WAIT to see where the story goes next in TORN!BTW, Ivy is kick-ass and Ren is totally swoon-worthy, but I call dibs on Tink.
Not even bothering with a long review.
So predictable.
So predictable.
Fucking awful.
I could tell what would happen and in what order after 50 pages and oh-wow, it happened exactly like that.
Damn, that was beyond boring.
Ivy's insta-lust and Ren's oh-so-clever remarks.
It was nice with Damon, you know?
It was tolerable in Sentinel, but pulling off the same shit in a third series?
And then the plot twists and Ivy's brilliant ideas?The only character I liked was Merle.
And even she was kinda...predictable.
Every character fit into a certain box, and the events and revelations as well as plot twists were simply dull.
So war es auch beim Auftakt ihrer neuen Trilogie und ich muss sagen, dass mich "Wicked" mehr als nur begeistert hat.Das Buch war nicht perfekt, leider ist erst am Ende die Story richtig in Fahrt gekommen, aber trotzdem bin ich einfach nur durch die Seiten geflogen.
Komischerweise habe ich das echt selten, dass ich die Chemie zwischen den Figuren wirklich spüre, aber Ivy & Ren ergänzen sich einfach perfekt.Der Plottwist am Ende kam für mich sehr überraschend und ich möchte einfach unbedingt wissen wie die Geschichte weitergeht!
Reviewed by: Hello Beautiful Book Blog Jennifer L. Armentrout writes a wonderful paranormal romance with twists and turns along the way. With the New Orleans setting and the lively characters this book will have you engaged from start to finish. Classic JLA. I kind of got hints from The Dark Elements Series and some from The Covenant Series and even some from The Lux Series. With the heroine being a fighter against some sort of evil and a love interest or two. There’s always some type of halflin
With the New Orleans setting and the lively characters this book will have you engaged from start to finish.
When he comes to her rescue with the tiny frying pan and this whole exchange of dialogue below, I think you will understand why you should read JLA books.
I love New Orleans as the setting for this book.
I love anything paranormal with a New Orleans setting.
But, I mean this is JLA and new adult so I don’t know what I expected.
I felt like he was the typical love interest in her books, but it always works pretty well.
By now I've read JLA a hundred times, I've read most of her books and each and every time she surprises me by how much she still has to give.
She writes fun books that you just can't help liking, she is one of the best of her kind.
In other words, he's perfect for Ivy. Tink, oh Tink, my little cutie brownie (brownies are something like pixies with wings and six-packs, lol), he is just so adorable and so funny and so little.
Maybe I should have gone back...I didn't mind the heroine but I tend to get frustrated with characters who don't move on from the past.
Sure, I don't mind a determined hero that's been around for awhile, but coming from (practically) a kid, just makes me laugh.The storyline was interesting, although getting hints at the big picture, frustrated me by the end.
It's a cliffy, but I'm not sure I'm invested enough to want to find out how it will all play out.The narrator does a pretty good job but I don't think I would put her in my favourite's list.
well.it was okay, i guess.nothing special. nothing fancy. lots of bad fae.
I adore JLA books and the biggest reason is her characters. I adore Aiden from The Covenant series. I came to love Seth as he finished that same series and spun-off to his own, Titans series. Then there's Daemon from the Lux series. He's in a league of his own. But if you take all the things I love about each of these guys and combine them into one guy, you would have Ren from Wicked.  He is gorgeous. He is snarky. He is straight forward about his attraction to Ivy. He is so sexy as he's always
I adore JLA books and the biggest reason is her characters.
Of course Ren isn't the only character in this book.
Yeah, he is.Some interesting supporting characters make me happy and break my heart.
JLA's strong characters are always supported by interesting stories.
It's the wait that will be hard on me.I love that there's comic relief and some serious sexy times that keeps this story so fun and yummy.
Of course, I love the writing.
I just want to read her books straight through.
If you love paranormal, then this is a great choice.
Leider waren die zwei großen Punkte, die für Überraschung sorgen sollten, meiner Meinung nach recht vorhersehbar und trotzdem hat mir das Buch sehr gut gefallen. Ich mag einfach den Schreibstil der Autorin und habe mich nach der Obsidian und Dark Elements Reihen, nach einer neuen Fantasy Reihe von ihr gesehnt und freue mich nun unheimlich, auf Band zwei.
I started reading Wicked thinking this would be the book I vote for on goodreads Choice Awards 2015.
This book feels like Karen Marie Moning's Fever ugly stepsister.
Everything seems forced and underdeveloped in Wicked.Ok, what's the book about?
She falls in love with Ren, a member of the secret group Elite 
I didn't think that possible in a book and expected Ren to be some undercover supernatural being, but (view spoiler)[he's human.
Ivy seems also a teenager in spite of her age, what she reads and the shows she likes.
Some of the best belong to Tink, of course.
"You gave Tink a scarf.
Los personajes me han gustado bastante: Ivy es una gran protagonista que ha sufrido mucho pero con una fortaleza envidiable, Ren es el chico perfecto (demasiado perfecto) que sabe hacer de todo y mi favorito fue Tink, sobran las descripciones para quien haya leído el libro.
Hay un personaje que sale al final que me tiene bastante curiosa, porque sí, yo y mi fascinación insana con los villanos.
Supongo que seguiré con la saga para conocer a dicho personaje y porque ha sido bastante divertido en algunas partes.
so you know those books that you can't really decide how you feel about them...because they are neither good nor bad? that's this book.I, for the most part, love JLA....I did not love this one. I couldn't connect with the characters and it seemed lacking. It got better near the end....the ending makes me actually want to read the sequel when it comes out...but only because I want to see how it turns out...not for any love for the characters.
actual Rating 3.5 starsI really enjoyed this book.Ill keep reading the series.Torn (A Wicked Trilogy #2)Brave (A Wicked Trilogy #3)
actual Rating 3.5 starsI really enjoyed this book.I´ll keep reading the series.Torn (A Wicked Trilogy #2)Brave (A Wicked Trilogy #3)
