https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12523033-la-educaci-n-de-henry-adams
Grant, Rudyard Kipling and Robert Louis Stevenson, to name a few.It was fascinating for me to learn that in 1861, when the author arrived in England as a private secretary to his U.S. diplomat father, that the British recognized the legitimacy of the Confederate belligerency and came close two years later to recognizing the Confederacy as a state.
I recommend both books highly, though from a literary point of view Sheehan's is the better written work.Time has not been kind to Adams' style.
Indeed, Henry Adams' world seems strangely Islamic with half its population going unmentioned.
Amazing. There are a just a few books (Meditations, Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Brothers Karamazov) that I feel every person on the planet should read. This is one of those books. If you are a historian, a diplomat, a Civil War buff or an amateur philosopher, this book will strongly resonate.
If you're deeply versed in 19th century American politics, you'll probably find his comments on those men and dozens of others amusing and interesting.
Despite which, this is an amazing, brilliant book, well worth the considerable effort needed to read it, because Mr Adams and Henry Adams are pretty obviously men you would like to spend time with in heaven.
The conflict is no longer between the men, but between the motors that drive the men, and the men tend to succumb to their own motive forces."and "Politics, as a practice, whatever its professions, has always been the systematic organization of hatreds."I don't know, though, if I'd like to spend much time chatting with Adams himself.
Once more! this is a story of education, not of adventure! It is meant to help young men—or such as have intelligence enough to seek help—but it is not meant to amuse them. Everyone agrees that this book is difficult and odd. An autobiography of an American man of letters, the son of a diplomat, grandson of a president, historian, journalist, secretary, all told in the third person, written for his private circle of friends. At once claiming to be the story of one man’s life, a critique of the
The seven years in teaching seemed to him lost.” He becomes a journalist in the capital, and then works on a seven-volume history of America during Jefferson’s presidency; and still, after all this, he insists he has received no useful “education.” And after every phase of his life, when Adams rings the same gloomy bell, the reader asks: “What on earth would satisfy you, Mr. Adams?”Another exasperating element is the degree to which Adams assumes a familiarity with the intricacies of 19th century politics.
there is no book like this anywhere else in American literature. It annoys, it fascinates, it bores, it amuses... a densely textured, thoughtful, at times exasperating story of growing up in the American 19th Century by the great-grandson of one president and the grandson of another -- who freely admits he should have lived in the 18th Century.

Nothing I could write would do justice to The Education of Henry Adams. Adams combines erudition, keen observation, wit and clear prose in creating the best example of the memoirist’s art.
I couldn't figure him out until I finally decided that he was really talking to himself the whole time.
He can write beautifully so stretches of description and analysis kept me going to the end, but most of the paragraphs are frustratingly choppy.
He'll write a short abstract sentence.
what is he talking about??
Despite all this complaining, this book is like nothing else I've ever read.
Now I'm interested in reading the new biography of his wife (who is never, not once, mentioned in the autobiography).
After that, the bulk of the heart of the book is spent on Charles Francis Adams' (Henry's dad's)tenure as American Minister in London during Civil War years, and Henry's tenure as his personal secretary (Nepotism?
Adams has little good to say about the character of English politicians in general, but ends up making a few very close friends.When he reaches 1870, he suddenly skips twenty years.
In reading about this, I couldn't help but think of the closing chapters of Tolstoy's "War and Peace", where the great Count makes a more lucid case for a scientific approach to history.
It's a shame, but one thing you never think when reading this book: "Oh Henry Adams!
Otherwise, well worth the read.As the book begins, he vividly and concretely describes his youth, and throughout his middle-aged years also, his ponderings are grounded in specific descriptions and prompts for reflection.
At this point, the only life experiences we hear about are points of interest in traveling Europe and health updates about Secretary of State John Hay. The pontificating in this section of the book is laborious reading.Bravo for his section on the power of women and the detrimental effect of Westernized de-sexing of women.
I'll agree with the ratings of this among the best nonfiction of the 20th century.
It is another of my favorite genre, the "books about everything." It covers roughly the period from 1850 to 1905, and hits on almost every major historical and intellectual development of the time, but from a unique personal and anecdotal perspective.
Adams was a man of great gifts and cultivation, but with a unique, eccentric, mugwumpishly conservative temperament that makes his collision and confrontation with the early modernist era he lived through especially instructive and relevant to our own time.
Perhaps, in another life, Henry Adams would have been a great thinker, one who, like Benjamin or Nietzsche, penetrated the myths of modern society and showed the world a glittering realm of possibility.
Pathetic, perhaps, but ultimately you feel bad for its practitioners, realizing that they're just damaged people-- like Mr. Adams, unhappy nostalgics looking for a way out of the alienating, discordant present.He's kinda whiny, but I get the feeling I'd still enjoy a couple beers with him.
And with his kinda cash, he'd be footing the bill.
The memoir of a man and a family, Henry Adams was the son of a diplomat/ politician, grandson of a president and the great-grandson of another.
The Adams family had produced leaders for the country since its founding and Henry Adams was heir to that leadership.
In his Education he produced one of the best autobiographies ever written, chronicling the rapid change of the last half of the nineteenth century while sharing personal experiences with his father, at Harvard, Washington and elsewhere.
I highly recommend this narrative for all readers interested in good writing and the history of the United States.
Adams challenges this classical definition of education by changing what most people would consider to be a noun (a person, place, or thing) into a verb (action).
In this autobiography, I believe his goal was to illustrate to his readers that education is an action or a life long pursuit, not something that simply "is".
Adams served as personal secretary to his father Charles Francis Adams who served as ambassador to England during the Civil War. The U.S. sent an Adams to England for 3 generations- John brokered the peace with England to end the American Revolution, his son, John Quincy settled with England to end the War of 1812.
The book made me want to know a lot more about the 'fly-over' parts of US history.
All went there because their friends went there, and the College was their ideal of social self-respect."- "college drinking was not of lasting negative impact but..
He maintained that the British support extended the civil war by two years, cost the US $2.125B and thought we should get Canada as compensation.- "morality is a private and costly luxury"This is a very dense book and if you follow up on every curious side story it will take you forever to read.
Henry Adams’ The Education of Henry Adams is intellectual autobiography told in a slightly mocking, gently ironic third person.
Adams was born in 1838 and bears witness to the industrial, scientific, cultural, and intellectual revolutions of the 19th century.
In The Education the scientific revolution, especially Darwin’s theory of evolution, but also in theoretical physics, provokes a spiritual crisis that Adams resolves into a theory of history.
Adams ponders, is troubled by, and works out the complex philosophical/spiritual/ethical challenge of emerging modernism with the mind of an average person, and this is what is so exhilarating.
(He was among the first to witness a demonstration of the X-ray.) This autobiography, published nine years before Joyce's PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN, builds the same way that great novel does.
But would he have liked him?] Adams is really saying, "I have lived!" But I can't help wondering if he really thought his knowledge of physics was a sign of his gift, or the fact that, throughout his adult life, Presidents and senators called upon him to act as advisor or diplomat.
I sense he thought building his theory was his life-work.
The Education of Henry Adams is on my list of books to re-read.
It was an introductory political theory course.
EOHA was our "conservative book".
I don't remember much from Henry Adams except the lingering impression that, if his intelligence was not so obvious, he would seem almost a crank.I specifically plan to re-read EOHA because some friends have been busting my chops that I am a liberal.
But I am re-aquainting myself with some of the old conservative chestnuts to gain a sense of how right (or wrong) that I am about my own political leanings.
An important book for anyone with an interest in American history and literature, by a descendant of two presidents (John Adams and John Quincy Adams).
I especially enjoyed his accounts of British politics during the American Civil War, which he spent in London serving as private secretary to his father, Charles Frances Adams, the Minister to Great Britain.
Since Adams did not intend his "Education" to be read by anyone other than close friends and family it can be a bit obscure, so it helps to do a little research first if you are not familiar with any of the details of his life.
The most interesting aspect of the book - its commitment to something like psychic catastrophism - is also, from a formal perspective, what makes it a tedious read, and the sheer volume of petty political sniping (about slights and missteps that occurred in, like, 1872) is enough to make one almost embarrassed for the aging Adams.
Add to that the author's by now pretty untenable conviction that in 1900 THE ENTIRE FABRIC OF HUMAN EXISTENCE WAS PERMANENTLY TRANSFORMED, supported by a very confused version of physics and biology, and you get a book many times the worse for historical perspective - as Adams, to his credit, probably would've predicted.
Even up to the first 200 pages, I was ready to give this work one star but then, I started to get it.
After that , every page, every paragraph had to be thought about.
I do not think I have ever used the word amazing to describe a book before this but this was amazing..PERHAPS THE NUMBER ONE NONFICTION OF THE 20TH CENTURY.
This was self published and not publicly available until after the authors death.
A great mind.
A great man who did nothing much in his life time but did much in his life time.
A third-person autobiography,  The Education of Henry Adams  is unlike anything I've ever read before. Adams does not come across as especially insightful or even particularly likeable, but I found myself compelled to keep reading. It's a fascinating picture of our country at the turn of the 20th century.
The Education of Henry Adams  is just that: i.e., the education of Henry Adams. But as he uses the word, it denotes a never-ending process between the two parentheses of birth and death. In that sense, Adams strips the word of its conventional value and re-dresses it in a habit more befitting a man who genuinely understands that education doesn’t end with formal schooling, but rather continues until he draws his final breath. And in this matter of education, Adams (who here — as in much of this
139).If this review is annoyingly long, it’s only because I want to cite some of Adams’s more salient points — of which there are many — and then let you be the judge of whether you’ll happily undertake your own reading of The Education of Henry Adams.
203: “Perhaps Henry Adams was not worth educating; most keen judges incline to think that barely one man in a hundred owns a mind capable of reacting to any purpose on the forces that surround him, and fully half of these react wrongly.
Adams was born in 1838 and watched the US rise from a sleepy agricultural confederation to a technologically advanced world power.
This is by far the best account I've read of this progression, which Adams tells as a quasi-autobiography.
It all works very well because, as Adams was well aware, he was born into a position of privilege it's hard to imagine--direct line of two presidents--but back when families like this had a tremendous civic ethic.
He observes society changing and at the end of his life has the luxury of spending years just thinking about what it all means.

My biggest complaint about this book used to be that every sentence was a topic sentence.
I think that to really understand the book the reader would need to be well versed in the politics and science of the 19th century.
I am interested in Clover Adams, his wife who committed suicide by drinking a chemical she used to process her photography.
I found a book but I am not interested enough to read an entire book on the woman.
I am more interested in John Hay, who, according to Adams, was a brilliant Secretary of State.
Review based on the LibraVox recording of this book.I have read "The Education of Henry Adams" but found that listening to it (as was the case with "The Illiad") is such a different experience as to make it seem like a different book.
Adams's humor comes through much more clearly in the audio version as does the constant if almost unconscious examination of class.
"The Education" is an important primary source in studying the home life, domestic scene, diplomacy and narrowness of view of the Boston Brahmans of the mid nineteenth to early twentieth century.
I didn't really enjoy this book. I found it hard to pay attention to it. I've read other autobiographies with no problems, I just couldn't really get into this one. I found the talking in third person a little odd. There were a few interesting things, which bumped it from 1 to 2 stars, but overall, I just didn't enjoy this one.
Didn't finish it. The autobiography in the third-person, the knowingness, the sarcasm and self-deprecation were all refreshing to begin with but their charm has tired somewhat, and it's just too detailed and private a history for me to want another 300 pages of it. Henry would understand: our attempts to educate ourselves seldom have the result we desire.
The result is a biography, “The Education of Henry Adams” which is both personal, and yet touches on several important moments in history.In this book, Adams thinks little of formal education and sees it as not preparing him for his life to come.
Lastly, as mentioned before, the friendships that Adams forms with King and Hay have a tremendous impact on his entire autobiography.What is missing from this book is 20 years, and an important 20 years it was for Adams, as it is the period of his marriage to Marian Hooper, whom was commonly called Clover.
