https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/105574.Scandal_in_Spring
4 Standing by your man Stars Scandal in Spring was a touching and sweet read. I loved Daisy and Matthew. Matthew had a funny dry sense of humor that was very charming. Daisy was a romantic and a dreamer. They made a cute couple. I thought Matthew was so sweet the way he loved Daisy. I loved the bowls war they had. I laughed so hard. I have to say I really don't like Daisy and Lillian's parents. Just sayin' they are cold-hearted assholes. This book was a little slower for me then some of the othe
4 Standing by your man Stars
Scandal in Spring was a touching and sweet read.
I loved Daisy and Matthew.
Matthew had a funny dry sense of humor that was very charming.
Daisy was a romantic and a dreamer.
I thought Matthew was so sweet the way he loved Daisy.
I loved the bowls war they had.
I have to say I really don't like Daisy and Lillian's parents.
This book was a little slower for me then some of the others in this series.
Overall I enjoyed this book.
Devil in Winter is still my favorite of the series!
Hmmm, what does that mean...?Throughout the story we're told about Matthew's long hidden desires for Daisy, but how he's determined to not let anything happen between them, no matter how much he longs for her.
I really felt the love between these two.One other thing made this book so satisfying to read, and that was the inclusion of all the other wallflowers (Lillian, Annabelle, and Evie) in the story, and to read about their ongoing friendship.
I also enjoyed seeing the continuation of Westcliff's and Lillian's relationship (loved Westcliff's devotion to her), and I particularly loved the amount of page time Westcliff got in the story, and how he turned out to be such a friend to Daisy and Matthew.
Book 4 in the Wallflower series finds Daisy Bowman, the only wallflower yet unwed, being faced with an ultimatum: Find a suitable husband by the end of May, or be forced to wed a man of her father’s choosing.
There were many such instances in this book, but the one that I still find myself *giggling* over was in regards to the lawn bowling game in which Daisy and Matthew found themselves opponents.
The game that followed was, for me, laugh out loud funny and will be one of my favorite moments from any book.As always, Lisa Kleypas gives us characters who are more than just words on the page.
I cried and laughed just as much as the first two reads.Updated review after second reread 3/27/13Oh my freaking god - this book is so amazing!
This was the second time around, and if anything I loved it more!
I truly love the Wallflower series and this book is my favorite.
If I could, I would have highlighted the whole book!I love Daisy.
Swift is liked by everyone in the northern hemisphere, including Westcliff and his friends, my friends, the servants, the neighbors, children, animals and higher order of plants," Lillian finished sardonically.
And if not the love story is enough, the book is set almost exclusively on Westcliff's estate.
3.5 stars I've been going through a massive reading/reviewing slump lately.
I think this book was a massive victim of that slump.
I hoped a Wallflower book would pull me out of it, but alas it didn't.
My fault and not the author's.This book is about the youngest wallflower Daisy, whose father declares a match for her when she doesn't procure an English husband.
I loved the first 3 books in this series, and I will happily read more by Kleypas in the future.Follow me on ♥ Facebook ♥ Blog ♥ Instagram ♥ Twitter ♥
While Daisy and Matthew share some very cute moments, and Kleypas is always extremely good at conveying sensual chemistry, I couldn't help but being uninterested in their romance as a whole.
And Matthew was a brooding hero wallowing too much in his woe-is-me secret lot, when instead his big revelation toward the end felt quite overplayed and farfetched to be convincingly moving, besides once again compressing all the drama in the very last chapters, thus following a pattern I've already recognised in several other Kleypas's plots.
'Father, wouldn't it be wonderful if hummingbirds had tea parties and we were small enough to be invited?'DaisyA lovely romance between a whimsical dreamer and an ambitious, pragmatic businessman. A wonderful story, a hint of mystery, touches of humour and love scenes (mostly) devoid of purple prose. The best in the series.Steam: 2.5-3
I find that whenever I read any books from this author, I just fall in love with the story and the characters, and the same is true for Scandal In Spring.
I loved both of these characters, as far as hero's go Matthew Swift is one of my favorites.
He is handsome, driven, passionate, and throughout the story we see Matthew come to life.
As far as love stories go this is a golden treasure, and one that will charm any reading with a romantic heart.
Adorables Daisy y Mathew. ❤ Una historia preciosa. ¡Me encantó!
Adorables Daisy y Mathew. ❤️ Una historia preciosa. ¡Me encantó!
I am really enjoying this series even though I am managing to read them all completely out of order. I have always been a fan of all things Regency, starting with my love for Georgette Heyer, and this author's books just fit the bill.Lisa Kleypas has a talent for writing charming characters and witty dialogue. It is nice too the way she brings back the characters from previous books so we can see how their lives have progressed. Altogether light, entertaining and very enjoyable!
A pesar de que Daisy es en teoría la más romántica, le ha tocado la historia mas "sosita".El principio me ha encantado, entre otras cosas, por la lucha interior que sostenía consigo mismo Swift por mantenerse alejado de Daisy. El final en cambio, me ha parecido lentísimo, y ha hecho que mi valoración baje.Y ya terminada la serie de las Wallflowers (me gusta mucho más que floreros), resumo mis impresiones:-La mejor pareja: Anabelle y Simon-El hilo conductor en todos los libros: Marcus Westcliff.-El más tierno: Sebastian Vincent.-El descubrimiento: Gretna Green.Y finalmente... ¡seguiré leyendo a la autora!!!
Daisy is the most fanciful of all the Wallflowers. She is forever with her head stuck in a book and thinking random thoughts.  “When he had explained why investors who wanted low risk and moderate returns should put their capital into national debt shares, Daisy had interrupted him by asking, “Father, wouldn’t it be wonderful if hummingbirds had tea parties and we were small enough to be invited?” Matthew on the other hand is dependable with two feet firmly on the ground and pockets full of solu
Daisy’s father has finally set down the law, Daisy will need to either find a husband in the next few months or….she will have to marry Matthew.
While Daisy’s father is trying to push them together her sister is completely against the idea of Daisy marrying and American and leaving to live in America.
She has enlisted her dutiful husband to help dissuade Matthew from pursuing Daisy.
“But no one refuses you.”“Apparently Mr. Swift wasn’t told about that,” he said.
All and All I have had a really good time with this series and will probably try a few more books by LK.
I liked Daisy in the previous books. She is the last Wallflower in need of a husband. Mama, of course, wants an aristocrat. Daisy just wants someone to love her for what she is ... she is a little romantic, a bit scatterbrained, somewhat unpredictable, a dreamer, a reader, a true friend ... “Most lives are not distinguished by great achievements. They are measured by an infinite number of small ones. Each time you do a kindness for someone or bring a smile to his face, it gives your life meaning
I liked Daisy in the previous books.
She is the last Wallflower in need of a husband.
Mama, of course, wants an aristocrat.
Daisy just wants someone to love her for what she is ...
she is a little romantic, a bit scatterbrained, somewhat unpredictable, a dreamer, a reader, a true friend ...
Never doubt your value, little friend.
The tall American who works for Daisy's father.
Daisy has never liked him in the past, when their paths crossed.
He is tall, handsome, rich.
Of course, it is not all plain sailing.
I liked catching up with the characters from the previous books too.
I can safely say that I loved all of the Wallflowers, and I loved all of their men.
But I do think I loved Matthew Swift most of all.
He and Daisy's "bloodthirsty lawn bowling" game made me laugh out loud.
And his enduring love for Daisy was beautiful.
There are so many lines in this book that come from Matthew that I want to put them on a poster and hang them in my room like a teenager.
There's just something about Daisy that I love.
Her bookish nature, her romanticism, and her awe of Matthew when she finally gives in to what is building between them.
The Wallflower's soon realize that Thomas Bowman has also sent for Matthew Swift from America to join them at the estate.Frustrated and upset, Daisy takes a walk to the wishing well that she and her fellow Wallflowers all made their first wishes upon the first time they were ever invited to Stony Creek.
Matthew knew he could never have Daisy because of who he is, and where he came from, so he hid his feelings so well that Daisy thought he was just as shallow as her father.I LOVED this story so much more this time.Their romance is beautiful and inspiring, and the reader is cheering the whole time, waiting for them to finally connect.
Daisy deserved a husband who was honest and whole, not one who had built his life on lies.But that didn’t stop Matthew from wanting her. He had always wanted Daisy, with an intensity that seemed to radiate from the pores of his skin.  ♥ What an excellent book for the final wallflower!! ♥  She hated it that she felt so alive with him. She hated the way her senses drank in his presence like dry earth absorbing rain. She hated his handsome face and virile body, and the mouth that was more tempting
She’s always despised Mr. Matthew Swift, who she sees as a replica of her father, someone who is power hungry, and who only values money and status.
Matthew was such a great hero, definitely not a rake, and the way he appreciated and understood Daisy being a dreamer, her love of books, made me love him even more.
Matthew tried so hard to keep Daisy at arms length, but his longing and her determination proved to be his undoing ;-D I loved their sexy times which was so hot and the mystery regarding Matthew’s secrets was excellent.
What she doesn’t realize is her father’s chosen man would be the handsome and caring Matthew Swift, who I just adored to pieces.
Their arguments had me laughing, while one talk had me grinning from ear to ear, as Matthew comforts Daisy while her sister Lillian gives birth, they go through his pockets and find all these little goodies he seems to carry with him.
But toward the end Lillian does redeem herself as she protects and comforts Daisy and helping Matthew when his past catches up with him.
This is my favorite book in the Wallflower Series. What a ride! I’m kind of crying right now, LOLOLOL! I can’t believe I read all 4 books in a week and now it’s over! It’s done. This series, as a whole, is an absolutely EPIC journey! It’s a 5 + star series that has the most incredible cast of characters. I love them so much and I’m so sad it’s over! Gah! I need to take a minute! LOL!
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI'm slowly working my way through the Wallflowers series, and I have to say, this is Lisa Kleypas at her most charming. Nothing can surpass my love for The Gamblers duology, of course, but Wallflowers comes pretty darn close. It's about three sisters, and their friend, all of whom are considered wallflowers and bluestockings, and completely undesirable as wives...Daisy Bowman is the last Wallflower, and really feeling that "forever alone" v
She's also hurt, because her father and Matthew (albeit in a nicer way) both imply that she's a parasite, which she is, pretty much.
He's an uptight businessman with a dry sense of humor, and he subscribes to the "I've loved you for years" trope - I'm a sucker for pining heroes, especially when they have a way with words.Matthew actually makes Daisy into a better person, I think, because he indulges her whimsical side, while also calling her on her crap when she behaves boorishly.
And she made him a better person, too, by forcing him to be less tense and making him feel loved.
To tell you the truth I started this book determined to dislike Matthew Swift.
From the previous book I got the impression that the next hero would be Cam Rohan and I was rooting for him and Daisy.
So when I read on the summary about Matthew Swift, an unknown American, I was disappointed.
Also Daisy has been the less impressive wallflower of the four.
Daisy's story became my favorite, even more the one of Lillian and Marcus with their constant bickering.
Daisy proved to be a mature young lady who, once set her mind on a goal, would stop to nothing in order to accomplish it.
3.5 Stars
But I'm happy to have reacquainted myself with this gem of a book!The 0.5 star shave is more around the whole thing with Daisy's little gypsy flirtation which doesn't seem to add anything to this whole series (other than to perhaps introduce the character of Cam Rohan for the Hathaways series), and also I don't quite understand the sisters' huge prejudice against Matthew from the outset while anyone who's interacted with him even briefly can tell that he's got a level head, is polite, and conscientious.
Wonderful love story where trust is visible without doubt. Characters are well delineated as real human beings with their strong points and weaknesses. Life is a circle and the truth always comes out. Enjoy the reading as I did.
I have been reading Lisa Kleypas’ “Wallflowers” series for a long time and now, I have finally read the fourth book in the “Wallflowers” series, “Scandal in Spring!” This time, the fans are introduced to Daisy Bowman, the last of the Wallflowers, who seems to have a love/hate relationship with ruthless yet gentle Matthew Swift!
“Scandal in Spring” is one romance novel that is so full of drama, exciting and pure sizzling romance that will have every romance fan boiling with pure pleasure!Daisy Bowman, younger sister of Lillian Bowman and the last of the Wallflowers to not be married, has yet to find a suitable suitor and her father demanded that if she does not find a suitor by the end of the season, she will have to marry the man that her father has chosen for her…Matthew Swift!
Sebastian, you may have some competition, because I LOVE MATTHEW SWIFT!I didn’t think I would enjoy Daisy and Matthew’s book for some reason.
After reading Devil in Winter and being blown away by Evie and Sebastian’s story, I just didn’t think Matty would capture my heart like St. Vincent did, but I was WRONG!
I had to know what his secret was and in the end, I didn’t think it was all that bad.
There’s a reason why I read romance!I loved that the other Wallflowers were featured in here as well, though Lillian’s unnecessary sarcasm and insults were making me wish I could bitch slap her.
Miss Annabelle Payton, Miss Lillian Bowman, Miss Evangeline Jenner and Miss Daisy Bowman used to be regular sights at the peripheral of a ballroom. This was before they formed an unlikely friendship each vowing to help the others out to find a husband by means fair and foul. Daisy Bowman is the last of the wallflowers to be wed and now her father has issued her with the ultimatum of finding a husband in the next few months...or he will pick someone for her.This is the last full length book in t
This book also gives you the opportunity to see the other wallflowers and peeks into how their HEAs are working out, and also further demonstrates the friendship between the four women and the sisterly affection between Lillian and Daisy.So I am sad to ending such a brilliant series and a cast of characters that are warm, funny and showcase some of the best that historical romance and indeed romance has to offer.
She deserved what every other wallflower got: An epic and all-consuming love.And she got it in the incredible Matthew Swift.
I loved him and found him to be the most refreshing of all the male leads in this series.
His love was palpable and I don't think Daisy ever thought she would come to adore him like she did.Even Marcus was amazing here.
This series is just WOW.
Matthew Swift and Sebastian St. Vincent are the most incredible and amazing hero's in this series!
But truly Sebastian+Matthew=SWOON!I can't emphasize how much I loved this book!
Daisy Bowman es la última de las floreros que falta por casarse y parece ser que va para largo hasta que su padre le da un ultimátum: o consigue esposo dentro de un determinado plazo o se tendrá que casar con el hombre que él escoja que no es otro que Matthew Swift un joven que trabaja en su empresa y que se ha labrado una carrera brillante y al que Daisy no ve con buenos ojos.El último de los libros de la serie no me ha dejado indiferente, aunque no me ha gustado tanto como el tercero está muy entretenido.Si bien Daisy no me llamó la atención tanto como el resto de las chicas Wallflowers tengo que decir que aquí me ha encantado y he odiado un poquito a Lillian, era algo exasperante.
It was a popular belief in Victorian society that women, with their mercurial natures and lesser brains, could not have the same quality of friendship that men did. Only men could be loyal to each other, and only men could have truly honest and high-minded relationships.  this has got to be one of the coolest gif's I've found. WTF is going on here?So, the Victorian asshats didn't think much of women, huh? Well, I say to them: The last of the Wallflowers finds her true love in this book. It is a
It was a popular belief in Victorian society that women, with their mercurial natures and lesser brains, could not have the same quality of friendship that men did.
Only men could be loyal to each other, and only men could have truly honest and high-minded relationships.
WTF is going on here?So, the Victorian asshats didn't think much of women, huh?
The last of the Wallflowers finds her true love in this book.
How could she make me love that beautiful bastard for two books and then shrink him down to speaking two or three sentences in this one?
Fue la florero que más me gustó además de Evie ^^. Me encantó que Mathew quisiera a Daisy desde antes y que ella lo volviera a ver después de un tiempo y él fuera un fuego <3, tengo debilidad por esas tramas de patito feo convertido en cisne y más incluso en este caso, donde el prota masculino es el que cambia.Me gustó ver a los personajes secundarios y si bien pensé siempre que Daisy se quedaba con Cam y por eso rehuía de leer este último de la saga, debo decir que quedé satisfecha con la pareja.
