https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/372811.Love_in_a_Cold_Climate
This 1949 farcical tale by Mitford is a riot. This group of wealthy British aristocrats who view themselves as the pinnacle of society, who have everything they could possible want, except maybe some common sense, or any sense at all for that matter, live only to gossip about their set, their affairs, their balls, etc. Even Fanny, the narrator, whom the reader comes to rely on as the only somewhat normal character, seems totally invested in the daily events of these silly people. I can see how this story, if casted properly, could make for entertaining film or television.
But her happiness had a curiously staif quality, and her love seemed less like the usual enchanted rapture of old establishment, love which does not need to assert itself by continually meeting, corresponding with and talking about its object, but which takes itself, as well as his response, for granted.Two opposing characters in Love in a Cold Climate, illustrate this observant, wittily detached, modern yet ultimately sympathetic approach: Uncle Matthew, the archetypal, old-fashioned, prejudiced and red-faced English country squire, whose life seems to revolve principally around his pet hates—anything foreign, cissies, intellectuals and Socialists—and Cedric, a very modern, exotic figure, probably inspired by Hamish St Clair-Erskine, a Scottish folle whom Nancy Mitford had rather hopelessly “dated” in the early 1930s.I also confess a weakness for Nancy Mitford’s style: totally unpretentious, always elegant and with a choice of vocabulary for which she has grown famous, the result of breeding, good taste and sound judgment.
What attracted me most though about her first book in this Radlett / Montdore setting is the human frailty and the limitations that belonging to this privileged class also imply, like the lack of prospects for girls who are denied a higher education and whose only purpose in life is to acquire a husband and to be decorative.
Why have I waited so long in my life to read this wonderful little gem? It's just so delicious, a pure delight. A comment on the back cover says it is "... a wickedly funny satire, brilliantly lampooning upper-class society". They don't mention that you will laugh out loud on public transport while reading it, or that you are torn between racing through this confection at high speed it or devouring it slowly to savour and enjoy every little morsel. Highly recommended reading, and I look forward to follow the characters into other of Ms Mitford's works.
A wonderful book full of completely eccentric characters! I just love it. Years ago, I watched a Masterpiece Theater adaptation of this book and just loved it. But, it was years ago and all I remember was I laughed and laughed.This book was full of the wonderfully eccentric characters that you found in the aristocratic, British upper class in pre-, during, and post-war England. I really have to read all the rest of Nancy Mitford's books. It's a wonderfully, delightful book and a lot of fun to read.
Preferred The Pursuit of Love.
Will continue with Don't Tell Alfred and The Blessing."It was a favourite superstition of Uncle Matthew's that if you wrote somebody's name on a piece of paper and put it in a drawer, that person would die within a year.
The spell hardly ever seemed to work, Labby having lived far beyond the age usual in Labradors, but he went hopefully on, and if one of the characters did happen to be carried off in the course of nature he would look pleased but guilty for a day or two."
I love the narrator's snarky voice (especially in the first half) and they way the author makes you share Fanny's cynicism about everything she observes while at the same time understanding her fondness for the appalling people she is surrounded by.
There are so many great lines I know I will have to read this book again to relive them.As a brilliant observer of human foibles Nancy Mitford is a direct descendant of Jane Austen.
She writes about the same class of people attempting to observe all the old traditions in a much more decadent age.
Can't wait to read more from Nancy Mitford.
Four and a half.Love, attraction and ageing are themes which Mitford explores with style and skill. Eccentric behaviour and entitlement along with thoughtful and sensitive writing makes this a wonderfully engrossing read. Thank you Mary for sending me this book which is full of sparkling, sharp wit!
Her novels are lightly fictionalized versions of her own life, and Love in a Cold Climate is no different.
Paralleling the events of The Pursuit of Love, Fanny narrates the life of her cousin Polly, lately returned from India (where her father was Viceroy), who hopes that the cold climate of Britain will help her avoid tedious love affairs.
Nancy Mitford, despite being the usually conservative and proper of the Mitford sisters, resists the urge to sensationalize, though Fanny of course gets a gay best friend to get advice on art from.
Love in a cold country is a curtain lifted on the large theater that was the world of the happy few of English high society of the 1930s.The female narrator Fanny, is a sort of poor relation, leading lady, who always had one foot in the world of the very select Hampton clan, family of very old stock, with all its noble districts, is that the main figure Lady Mondore , imperious woman, gossipy, tongue and to selfish monster.
Delizioso!Ho deciso di approcciarmi all’autrice in seguito alla lettura di un libro nel quale ella c
I absolutely adored "The Pursuit of Love" si O was super excited for this book. Unfortunately it felt flat compared to the first book.Gone are Fanny's amusing ralatives, gone her unique, witty voice. There's basically no plot but instead of we have lots and lots of casual paedophilia.
En algunos momentos el humor pasa de la ironía a la crueldad en segundos, pero no puedes evitar adorar esas líneas. Mitford retrata una sociedad frívola que afronta las cosas a su manera.Tan delicioso como el anterior. Tocará ir a por el tercero ^-^
(3.5) I didn’t realize this 1949 novel is a sequel to The Pursuit of Love, so it took a while to figure out who all the characters were.
Fanny Logan is a cousin orbiting around Lord and Lady Montdore and their daughter Polly Hampton, all recently returned from some years in India.
Fanny marries an Oxford don, while Polly shocks everyone by eloping with her uncle by marriage, “Boy” Dougdale, a recent widower once known as the “Lecherous Lecturer” for interfering with little girls.
This amusing picture of aristocratic life in the 1930s marvels at who we love and why.
Like those Sunday buffet breakfasts in the Morning Room, once the paraffin warmers are used up.I was hanging about, as one does at house parties, waiting for the next meal; it was not yet quite time to dress for dinner on Sunday evening.
The first half of this book bored me nearly to tears, then I roared through the much more enjoyable second half. It is hilariously British, if you enjoy British wit and parlance. Overall a charming, light read.
Trashily enjoyable, Love in a Cold Climate casts a delightfully cold and acerbic eye over aristocratic English society in the 1930s, aided by Mitford's deft (and often malicious) way with characterisation. I don't know that I would read much more of her work--Mitford is very much of her time with regards to certain, uh, social assumptions and stereotypes, and this is almost ridiculously frothy--but as a once-off read, it is a lot of fun.
L' arte della ripicca non sempre va a buon fine.Di sicuro non in questo libro dove la debuttante Polly cerca di metterla cordialmente "in quel posto" a sua madre ma in realtà quella che poi si ritrova fregata è lei.Totalmente scalzata dal Cugino Cedric che pur non essendo bello come lei ha qualcosa che a lei manca totalmente come la "Personalità".Non mi sento di dire altro se non che gli inglesi hanno una maniera di scrivere che mi fa sentire a casa.
a fluff, a something of nothing, that is so very dated and non-funny.
Delicious.
Her rudeness, vulgarity, and snobbishness are shocking, but she believes her position in society entitles her to say anything she likes, such as, when being safely motored through London in her chauffeured, luxury vehicle, “I love being so dry in here, and seeing those poor people so wet.” Commenting negatively of someone, she remarks “her origins must have been low or transatlanatic.” She refers to Polly’s heritage as “all this,” sweeping her arms around to indicate the Manor and its grounds, their other residences, aged furniture, snotty friends hanging on for months to eat at their table, and their wealth and position –none of which seems to be valued by Polly.Lord Mondore with his shaggy blond hair and long, upheld nose, looks “too much like a collie dog.”Since the upper classes marry for wealth and position, most have lovers.
Fanny's amusing, eccentric relatives leavened the whole, reminding me of the characters of Shaw's Heartbreak House or Kaufman & Hart's You Can't Take it With You, but as the focus of the novel is on Lord and Lady Montdore's family, they aren't enough to rescue it entirely.
Polly is no better than a cardboard cutout during the first part of the book; she only begins to have any depth by becoming an embittered shrew towards the novel's end.
And Cedric begins as a breath of entertaining fresh air, but he rapidly grates on the nerves--though this may be due to the fact that the way he's characterized has become stereotypical in the decades since the book's publication.
I had been hearing about the glamorous, scandalous, sexy Mitford sisters for years -- Jessica the fiery and sexy Communist, Unity the glamorous and sexy she-Nazi, Diana the sleek and sexy fascist, Debo the demure and sexy duchess, and (last but not least) Nancy the sly and sexy writer of satirical novels.
So when I got the chance at last to read LOVE IN A COLD CLIMATE I was expecting something like the sisters themselves were supposed to be -- sly and sexy, elegant and aristocratic.Wrong, wrong, wrong!
You can see why no one in the Mitford family thought it odd when sister Unity fell in love with Adolph Hitler!
He is wonderful:'It was a favourite superstition of Uncle Matthew's that if you wrote somebody's name on a piece of paper and put it in a drawer, that person would die within a year.
The spell hardly ever seemed to work, even Labby having lived far beyond the age usual in Labradors, but he went hopefully on, and if one of the characters did happen to be carried off in the course of nature he would look pleased but guilty for a day of two'Classic Uncle Matthew.
For years this book sat on the bookshelf in my house, and for some reason thought it was probably a better book than The Pursuit of Love, the predecessor to Love in a Cold Climate.
Cedric, the distant cousin who will inherit all, appears late in the book and while he charms everyone he meets, I didn't like him very much.
I don't think it would make much sense without having read The Pursuit of Love.
And the ending felt so much like a set up for the next volume: What will Cedric and Polly do?
Love in a Cold War by Nancy Mitford is a narrated by Fanny.
She is the closest friend to Polly Montford.
It is based at a time when the society cared for nothing more but marriage.
Women were never trained in anything other than marriage.
Unfortunately, the people are so cynical about love.
They are quick to criticize the matches that are joined together in holy matrimony.
The most criticized is Polly's match to Boy Dougdale, a lecturer at Oxford University.
But she defies the odds, and even going against her family's wishes to marry the man she loves.
Freddo sì, ma british.Commedia traboccante di sottile ironia, squisitamente pungente e cinica, alla maniera inglese. Uno sguardo sugli intrighi e i pettegolezzi del bel mondo, inconsapevole del suo tramonto e, per questo, irresistibile.
Fluffy and light like a Victoria sponge cake. First part was rather a page turner, second not so much - dragged and no plot twists. Overall, did not disappoint, though I enjoyed "The Pursut Of Love" more.
I had mixed feelings about this book. Although I enjoyed the minor characters of Davey and the Radcliffe's, I found the central characters dull & plodding. The plot felt thin & predictable. I kept waiting for something of more substance.
The success of failure of all human relationships lies in the atmoshere each person is aware of creating for the other.First of all, like in The Pursuit of Love the characters created the story, not the way around.
This way the novel is always more real.Nonetheless, I must admit I didn't like much (as a human being) most of the main characters (including Polly), but I did like them as marvelous examples of the class.
