https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101128.The_Nude
This is a book for someone who sees Hercules and the Lion and thinks "look at how the artist is evoking the body's movement with the movement in the cloak" and not "I like the gold pubes!"Bits:"The drift of all popular art is towards the lowest common denominator, and, on the whole, there are more women whose bodies look like a potato than like the Knidian Aphrodite."On Sacred and Profane Love: "Titian has even broken the line of the arm by a cast of crimson drapery exactly where it would have been broken by time.""(One of Courbet's nudes) was intended to provoke and succeeded imperially, for Napoleon III struck at her with his riding crop." "The skin was to Rubens almost what the muscles had been to Michelangelo.""Roots and bulbs, pulled up into the light, give us for a moment a feeling of shame.
The bulb-like women and root-like men seem to have been dragged out of the protective darkness in which the human body had lain muffled for a thousand years."
Our largely negative attitude toward the nude inspired me to discover if I couldn't unearth the underlying reasons.Clark takes you into a whole different world.
Studying the evolution of beauty has utterly changed my perception of the human body as well as the modern representation of beauty.
This came as very welcome relief (PUN) as the modern evolution of the nude, though different in its representation of past periods, shares many of its patterns.
Digital post production has given artists an unparalleled, newfound power that today at least accentuates extremes, as a harrowing look at the modern pornography industry easily confirms.
This is what I took away: it was all about nude men for a while because of the greeks predilections, but eventually nude women were depicted.AND"since the earliest times the obsessive, unreasonable nature of human desire has sought relief in images, and to give these images a form by which Venus may cease to be vulgar and become celestial"ANDThere have been some key variations on the theme; the celebratory ideal, the stretched out mannerist, the Rubenesque, the shameful gothic, the impressionistic, the abstract.AND"no nude, however abstract, should fail to arouse in the spectator some vestige of erotic feeling, even though it be only the faintest shadow - if it does not so, it is bad art and false morals"SOClearly an old school gent who not only believes in the canon but in an erotic litmus test.
Sir Kenneth Clark was, up to 1945, the Director of the National Gallery, when he resigned to pursue other interests.
This book was the result of a series of lectures he gave at the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C. as a part of the A.
In the lectures, and in this subsequent book, he traces the development of the nude in art from several viewpoints, and categorizes the various influences that civilization at the time had on its representation.
Now you can see the paintings in excellent reproduction and get a much better idea of the various principles that Clark was trying to point out.
A must read; a touchstone — A great book, which, by way of discussing one art form, anatomises the study of art, one might even say, the philosophy of art. If you can only ever read one book on art, this is it!
Needless to say, at the price of R15, I thought to buy the battered copy and see what I had missed.The Nude is a book dedicated to mapping out the history of the nude in the Western art canon, from the Ancient Greeks to the Neoclassicists, examining and explaining how the nude had evolved from the style of the Archaic period to the looser, less controlled forms of the post-Renaissance.
As someone who might have a decent understanding of the Western art canon, but not of the theory and the more intricate details, I did find the book to be incredibly interesting in some respects, such as how the Western nude had to evolve from a rigid form, to the looser, freer forms that we see today.
Bought this whilst a monk back in 1968.(I recall some monkish friends being very scandalised!!)Have 
A joy. If you are like me, a person who enjoys art but without formal training, then this book will be a pleasure from beginning to end. Clark takes you through a number of topics and themes and provdes a discourse aimed at the intelligent reader leading you from each masterpiece to the next highlighting aspects of interest that may be easily missed. As such he is an expert guide and this book is a joy and not to be missed. Highly recommended.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYHCVt...
Indeed there was a significant period of Church history where the Roman Catholic church was comfortable with nude figures as appropriate decor even within their cathedrals - a far cry from from the ideas about humanity and beauty I was raised with.
The fact that these god and goddesses were, for the most part, naked gave to nudity a a diabolical association which it long retained.""Art is justified, as man is justified by the faculty of forming ideas....""Is there, after all any reason why certain quasi-geometrical shapes should be satisfying except that they are simplified statements of the forms that please us in a woman's body?
Bringing up images on the phone not only adds the vibrancy of color (where that's important) but adds visual persuasion to sentence sets like the following, in which only one book plate is available without a phone."An example" [of Michelangelo's drawings] "reproduced with little change" "is the sketch of 'The Abduction of Hippodameia' [Plate 162 of the book] in Brussels, in which the chief figure is obviously taken from Michelangelo's drawing at Windsor of 'Archers Shooting at a Mark.'...Its value as an independent form can be gauged from the fact that although the figures were originally flying forward, in the Rubens they are supposed to be pulling in the opposite direction: and yet we accept it without question."Addendum: The book deals with body shapes as they relate to artists and the broader culture, both those of men and women.
While it's written in a very accessible style, this book is aimed at art historians. If statements like "The ideal form of Apollo scarcely appears again before that false dawn of the Renaissance, Nicola Pisano's pulpit in the Baptistery of Pisa" don't leave you scratching your head about who Pisano was and when that false dawn happened (the book doesn't give even a hint), then you might really get a lot out of it. Amateurs can still enjoy it, but might feel--as I did--that they're missing out on many of Clark's finer points.

This book is a great read. It describes the history of the nude in western art from the ancient Greek sculptures up to modern art ending with Matisse, Picasso and Henry Moore. It tells how the Greeks used proportion and elements of geometry to construct their creations which usually were about their gods and heroes. The chapters include Apollo, Venus, Energy, Pathos, Ecstasy, etc. If you're into art history this is a must read.
Very much out of fashion but I still enjoyed this a lot. I found the chapters on the most recent art the least convincing, but his insights into Greek and Roman sculpture fascinating. I had not read it for thirty years but it certainly stood the test of time.
As part of the curriculum here at New York Academy of Art, there are chapters that are required as reading assignments and discussions that occur in class. I didn't read the book from beginning to end. It's assuredly interesting and a must for anyone at the fore of creating figurative artwork.
Something to learn each time I read it.
Clark doesn't seem entirely sure about the nude unless he can find a metaphysical reason for it. At least it's a change from some of the sillier feminist tracts on the subject.
Excellent. Kenneth Clark had lots to say on the history of the nude in art. Much less dry than I expected it to be. Recommended for anyone working with the figure in any way.
Although I don't agree with everything he says, the book offers art-historical categories and interpretive frameworks for approaching representations of the human figure.
Tremendously rich from beginning to end. Each paragraph contains passages of deep critical observation and unexpected connections. The finest book on art history that I've read.
