https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219879.The_Piano_Teacher
ولكن اصبحت موسيقية بارعة ولا تصل الى حد العبقرية.المعلمة تعيش حياتين ، واحدة تظهر بها امام المجتمع كمعلمة محترفة للموسيقيين شباب.
وفِي السر تعمل أشياء تعافها النفس ويبدو ان تربيتها والضغط عليها جعلها تعيش هذه الحياة، فالمجتمع حولها منافق وهي يجب ان تكون منافقة.حتى عندما يدخل الرجل بسلطته في حياة اريكا تريد منه حياتين واحدة امام المجتمع والأخرى سرية مليئة بالسادية والافعال حتى الرجل الذي كان يريد ان يقدم الحب ويناله بالمقابل فتفاجأ بطلبات يشمئز منها.الام دائما نحاول طرد الرجل من حياة ابنتها وحتى اَي وسائل لهو اخرى تحاول ان تبعد ابنتها عنها وسيطرتها عليها.اُسلوب الكاتبة معقد ومليء بالسرد الممل حول نقاط أشبعتها سردا طوال الرواية.نقد المجتمع النمساوي ظاهر في احداث الرواية واتهامه بالنفاق والازدواجية.
Intellectual men will read stuff like The Piano Teacher and Story of O; and although they won’t read 50 Shades they will note the amazing success of that book, and that its readers are 99% female; so these things become the cultural background radiation of our times; and the idea gets around that on some level maybe women actually want to be dominated and mistreated, whatever they might say with their feminist voices.
(With credit to Shrek for the latter observation.) The novel is unrelenting in its characterization, giving no quarter to any of the main characters: we see no redeeming qualities in the small, petty, selfish world of Motherdear's pathetic existence, and although we might feel twinges of sympathy for Erika at times, make no mistake that she is drawn relentlessly with harsh clear strokes, allowing no room for rose-tinted glasses: we see Erika in all of her inner ugliness in which there is yet intrinsically pathos--but there is no heroism, no reprieve, no redeeming qualities; just deep frustrated need--a need for love and recognition that Walter is unable to meet, because he himself is needy; he needs a mother-like love and he needs recognition and admiration from an authority figure in order to bolster his shaky self-esteem--something which older Erika cannot give because she herself is unable to give; she is emotionally and sexually a frozen being.
Do not tell us of the parade; bleed our ears to the beat of cacophony.
People scream, oh, the sacrilegious desensitization of modern society!
People mutter, oh, the banal unknowns of sexual proclivity.
Never mind the banalities of evil that crop up in the beginning, those will soon recede before the tide of the Greater Things in Life.
Break from the track, run around on newfound legs and divest yourself in dividends undesirable to the maternal streak, and watch as the furious threats and emotional gutting chases after the errant child, determined to slap and beat and bunch it back into shape.
She used to be my favourite pet hate for a couple of years after she was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature.
All of a sudden I realised that I have exactly the same relationship to Elfriede Jelinek, but that I am much less forgiving of her hatred, despite understanding it better than Strindberg's privileged whining.
And Banks' writing skills are not even close to Jelinek's.What is it then?My reading of Strindberg's I havsbandet made me come up with an idea.
She reaches the determination to show this sublime male specimen the dear price of his daring to desire her, proving her dominance and supremacy to the world.But even the most shrivelled of souls can’t ignore the intoxicating illusion of love as instrument of absolution; and the balance of forces, both of love and power, expand and contract, merge and repel unpredictably, shifting first from mother to daughter, then from teacher to student, only to finally backfire and make of the abuser a victim and of the abused an aggressor, leaving only a blurred red trickle of blood glowing in golden sunbeams and festering wounds that will never properly heal.Where to draw the line between the guilty and the innocent?Should parents be blamed for the miseries of their children?
She’s in her late 30s, an age we are repeatedly told is quite old, and she sleeps in the matrimonial bed with her domineering mother: hands outside the covers, lest those fingers go wandering.
I was looking forward to the mother-daughter dynamic, as I’m drawn to deranged parent-child relationships; I had no idea just how deranged it would be.
Of all the foul and sadistic events in this book, a small, animalistic scene between mother and daughter in bed haunted me the most.
The Piano Teacher is an unbearably gruesome read.
It starts off with a brutal spat of domestic violence (with fistfuls of pulled hair) and ends with two of the most disgusting sex scenes I've read in modern literature.
Our main character, a piano teacher living with her hovering parasite of a mother, experiences personal destruction and the conflation of sex and romantic pleasure with pain.
I can't exactly call this pornographic (for who would voluntarily enjoy such stories for their sexual arousal?
I can't say I enjoyed reading this, but it asks the harshest questions about sex and violence.
In many ways, Elfriede Jelinek's Die Klavierspielerin is amazing.
Visceral, explosive, descriptive in a horrifying, yet also curiously enticing manner, the novel presents a massively cracked and crumbling, distorted mirror of society (not just Austrian society, but society in general) and how stranglingly vigorous and seemingly impossible to fray and sever the patriarchal structures and fibres of power and might are and continue to be (and how they consume and infiltrate everything and everyone).
Own me, Rape me, Gag me, Bind me, Devour me.The above is given for the effect it had on me, it affected me in ways that no book ever has made upon me and I'll never forget it, it's highly unforgettable.
The book offends you in many ways as it makes you cringe for your sanity, your breath becomes labored, but you read on, you read on until it's over with a statement; a glorious statement that she is free and wants wants WANTS, bleeding for you, for her love.
My wife and I went to the Albertina museum to see a Gottfried Helnwein installation; his famous "48 Portraits" of important women was one of the works, and right there in the middle of the beautiful prints was one of Elfriede Jelinek.
I had never heard of her before friend Aubrey recommended this book to me; how great it was to read her most famous work in the city where it was penned - and to see her painted portrait by another famouse Viennese artist:
I have made my way through this painful and upsetting novel.
Ever since Elfriede Jelinek won Nobel Prize in 2004, but didn’t come to Stockholm to pick it up, I have believed that she was not for me.
Although I can’t connect to Erika in the beginning and find her unlikable, nasty and vicious, while reading the last scene I’m crying for her for she really does not deserve all that misery.I can’t say that I liked “The Piano Teacher”.
'The Piano Teacher' is like a piece of chamber music; a dissonant, serial composition with cold, confused Erika on piano, Mother on violin (always fiddling away even, or especially, when uncalled for by the score) and, supplying the lower notes, Walter Klemmer on cello (a little arrogant regarding his abilities and too keen to wave his bow about).The music is without melody or harmony, but it is a stunning piece of virtuoso writing.
Mother's overbearing need to control her one child must be the result of a deep trauma in her own life.
Questo libro, La pianista, della Jelinek, premio Nobel per la letteratura 2004, è riuscito a stupirmi.Al centro della narrazione un rapporto malato, quello tra madre e figlia (rapporto già normalmente sempre difficoltoso).
Qui la madre soffoca a tal punto la figlia, osservata in età differenti, da generare azioni drammaticamente fuori dalle righe da parte della figlia, in cerca di autonomia e amore.
Lo dico sempre, certe cose (uhhh) possono essere narrate solo dalle donne.Fa pensare, il libro, a quanto male può fare l'amore quando portato all'eccesso e quanto importante sia l'affrancamento dai genitori.
Erika, the piano teacher, lives with her mother in a closed, isolated universe, from which relatives and friends were expelled.
I couldn't connect to any of them, not even through the pity that I could feel for Erika, from time to time.
What her mother has done out of love and possession, Erika is doing out of a cynical, calculated, almost experimental predisposition.
As we delve deeper into the novel, we start to discern different threads, which manipulate all the others: above everything, there towers the imposing and unforgiving figure of Elfriede Jelinek, whose ironical and caustic voice we can clearly hear throughout the narrative.
Con la Jelinek affrontiamo i recessi più oscuri in cui può affogare un essere umano.Protagonista una donna, Erika, pianista con un trascorso di concertista fallita alle spalle, che si guadagna la vita facendo l'insegnante.Protagonista è altresi' il rapporto malato con la madre, rapporto talmente spinto ed esasperato da parere una presa in giro sardonica e beffarda delle teorie psicologiche sul rapporto conflittuale madre e figlia, nonché una feroce satira di tutta la letteratura in ambito che lo ha preceduto (cfr.
(Amore virgolettato non a caso)Una dichiarazione d'amore che segue i binari ordinari che arriva inaspettatamente alla docente da parte dello studente più aitante e più ambito, viene completamente ribaltata dalla visione distorta della pianista su cosa voglia effettivamente dire amare ed essere amata.
This reads a bit like a shrill reboot of an old underground fable and also like overcooked Angela Carter.
As Meike suggests, it's a little too eager to pre-empt all speculation about what might be motivating either of the protagonists.
It's as though the author is a little bit worried that we might be overwhelmed without her careful guidance, and as though she is actually quite tame, and presumptive of our being likewise.DNF about 25%.
I don't know what else to add to the issues already outlined, other than to say I felt equally hectored and patronised and can't be doing with any more of it.
The detached way of storytelling (very Canetti-like) underlines the strong sarcastic tendency.Thematically this novel seems more like a psychological study of an extremely deviated personality rather than a fictional story.
She uses a very detached point of storytelling (Erika, the mother and the pupil are always described in the third person), but she mixes this with a very ingenious form of independent inner monologue.
In other reviews a link is suggested with the marxist analysis of Jelinek, presenting the 3 main characters as alienated personalities, products of the capitalist system.
Let's see.Elfriede Jelinek is, perhaps, one of the most controversial of the Nobel Prize Winners from the 21st Century.
I think that drew me to her.I can see, after reading this book, why she won the prize.
I'm trying to keep this short for two reasons - my own lack of time, and my desire to have you read this book.What you witness in this book is the complexity of domination and rebellion born out in everyday relationships, and the agency of a single woman as she works through these challenges and attempts to creates challenges for some of those around her.
L’infanzia e l’adolescenza sono alle spalle e non si può recuperare una vita già soffocata sul nascere: la madre non ha permesso nessuna amicizia, nessun amore, nessuna esperienza del mondo.Madre- Matrona schiaccia ogni volere che non sia il proprio, spegne ogni minimo fuoco di passione filiale, frena ogni movimento che non sia diretto al virtuosismo musicale.Al principio Erika doveva essere La pianista ma i piani non sono andati esattamente come mamma voleva ed oggi a 35 anni è una pianista, un’insegnante con cattedra al conservatorio di Vienna.” Vienna, la città della musica!
Ich bin doch kein verstockter Dummbatz, dem nicht zu helfen ist, ich werde das Buch lesen.Habe ich gedacht.
Habe dafür so lange gebraucht, dass ich nunmehr das Buch in der Kreisbibliothek hätte verlängern müssen und stand also pflichtschuldig gesenkten Blickes mit dem unscheinbaren Taschenbüchlein mit der wenig gelungenen Umschlagillustration vor der Bibliothekarin; einer älteren Dame, die sanftmütig ist (normalerweise jedenfalls).
Es klang, als hätte sie gesagt: Wollen sie DAS Buch (etwa) verlängern?Ihr Blick hatte etwas Stechendes bekommen und ich musste mir den Schweiß von der Stirn tupfen.
Mein Fazit nach diesem Buch lautet: Holt die Jelinek aus dem Regal und lest!
Die Klavierspielerin ist eine Wiener Melange aus Hochkultur und Perversion.
Die zugrundeliegende Dreierkonstellation Mutter - Lehrerin Erika - Schüler Klemmer erinnert ein wenig an Sigmund Freuds Strukturmodell der Psyche: 1.
Elfriede Jelinek hatte ich in Berichten über ihre Arbeit und Person, bisher immer als Vertreterin eines verkrampften, todernsten Feminismus wahrgenommen.
Allerdings gerät man als Leser unweigerlich selbst in die Position des Voyeurs, der sich an den Obsessionen und Abgründen der anderen schadlos hält.
Wie gesagt das Buch ist ein totales Crossover aus High culture und Sexploitation.
This book gives you a severe feeling of claustrophobia and is clearly not for the faint of heart: A female piano teacher who is pushing 40 still lives with her controlling mother who is treating her like a mixture between a young child and a husband (e.g., there`s a curfew and she is sleeping in her mother`s bed).
Growing up and still living in this mental straight-jacket, she is unable to feel herself and her body and tries to channel her oppressed sexuality in porn shows or by secretly watching couples during sex.
معلمة البيانو...حين يتحول صوت الموسيقى إلى سلاح يدمر حياة عازفة بيانو ويحيلها خرابا!!!0بفكرة مبتكرة 
Excorciating psychological study of the utter failure of interpersonal connection.
Austria would appear to have issues that can only be worked through via brutal works of art, and in many ways Jelinek is harsher than anything approached by Bernhard.
In some ways Jelinek writes in an anti-style, just piling declarative sentences at the reader until they're forced to accept their content.
But then she switches course and descends into convoluted structures of metaphor so mixed as to almost lose meaning -- which could be seen as another path towards anti-style -- but which somehow take on a weird beauty all their own that rises luminously above the cruelty.
Njen stil odaje utisak gušenja dok čitate, kad biste pokušali ovo da čitate naglas, mislim da biste čitali brzo i zadihano, što je svakako u vezi sa seksualnošću ovog dela.
Ne delim književnost nikad na onu za muškarce i onu za žene, ali u ovom slučaju, mislim da je posebno važno da žene pročitaju ovo delo jer ono podriva patrijarhalni poredak iz same srži tog poretka.
This book was, to borrow someone else's phrasing, punishingly unendurable.
But in the best possible way.
The writing is like a luscious chocolate dessert sprinkled with sparkling shards of glass.
The ladies (and gent) in this tome all strike me as the type who would grind up glass and serve it in your dessert.
Hey, if redemption isn't possible, at least there's always alliteration.
I took a trip to page 100 and felt like I'd served my time.
I should probably add the disclosure that the main reason this book was hard for me to stomach is that it had waaaayyyy too much autobiographical resonance.
Evo i sedmicu dana nakon čitanja još uvijek imam kamen u grudima i ne mogu da započnem sa čitanjem sljedeće knjige, toliko je teška bila (tematika, protagonistkinja, knjiga, sve). Možda zvuči ružno i mučno, ali kada se radi o književnosti, mučno je dobro.
I read this as I also explored, in separate texts, how pain is depicted in literature.
Norridge, in Perceiving Pain, explores writers memorializing pain as a way of lament, a way of bearing witness to the suffering of past and present.
While this book is certainly different, setting and all, it was interesting to read it with that context in mind, particularly when 'lament' literature is a kind I'm drawn to.
Simply put, this novel focuses on pain; the kind of pain that forces a character to dark underworld dungeons, to self mutilation, to bad relationships, to an obscured view of the world.
This is one of my favorite books.
I can't even describe how amazed I was when I finished this book.
Jelinek moves the reader from character to character, rarely telling us who we inhabit, yet unlike so many other books that abuse this device, it works.
Commentary is mixed in with thoughts.
Lurid sex scenes, violence, depression, despair, social commentary.
It's all there, everything you need for a good weekend.
I don't understand how anyone could not like this novel.
Maybe you don't like the message you get out of it.
I can understand that, but you have to admire her skill and passion.
