https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397112.A_Legacy
But even if I didn't totally understand the meaning of the ending, I liked that a woman hides certain letters in a book (The Correspondence of Gustave Flaubert) with a mistaken assumption that her husband is not a reader.Oh, and there's a bit of a scandal when it's discovered that a son, insane, has been hidden in the Army as a decorated Captain.
Sybille Bedford is not very well known; just over 100 ratings and just over 20 reviews for this, her most famous novel.
She had written critical articles about the Nazis and was living in the South of France as the Nazis closed in.
Eda Lord has two novels on GR, neither have a rating or review.
The novel is partly autobiographical a portrait of two families (one Catholic, one Jewish) in pre World War One Germany.
It also explores the tensions of a marriage between a Jewish family and a Catholic family.
Bedford is a remarkable writer of conversational passages; although she does make the reader work sometimes.
Reseña completa: https://cronicasdemagrat.wordpress.co...Este es uno de esos libros extraños de los que cuesta hablar por ser tan peculiares, pero a mi me ha conquistado por completo.Gira en torno a dos familias aristocráticas en la Alemania de principios del siglo XX, el argumento es todo menos lineal y sus personajes extravagantes a más no poder.
Estoy deseando leer más cosas de esta autora..
Ah, y ojalá un árbol genealógico, esta es una de esas lecturas que me hubieran hecho la vida más fácil con un árbol genealógico...
I really must see that they’re left to me.”“Oh I shouldn’t,” he said.This book is so allusive that after you’ve finished and go back to an early scene, you see how much is contained and hidden in this apparently throw away exchange of four lines about two yellow 17th century Persian ceramic cats.
Layers of meaning, deception, weakness, love and oblivion.Bedford writes incredibly indirect yet deep prose about the intermarriages of these Jewish and Catholic families.
And she writes about money, and how it’s possession allows people to go through life oblivious to their effect on other people, both within their families and in the larger society.
Sybille Bedford no sólo ejecuta unas descripciones magistrales, sino que sus diálogos, esas conversaciones entre dos personas, son tan interesantes, tan llenos de referencias (históricas, sociales, culturales, económicas), ese aire culto casi elitista hasta el punto de resultar pedantes en muchas ocasiones....
Todo ello y más me ha parecido tan maravilloso y me lo he pasado tan bien imaginándome sus caras, sus narices casi todas apuntando hacia arriba...
Sybille Bedford, en definitiva, retrata una sociedad que languidece y parece abocada a la desaparición, que huele a naftalina y a habitación cerrada, pero que, a pesar de todo y del paso del tiempo, aun pervive: es un tipo de sociedad que, a veces parece que remonta, pero sigue languideciendo, muriendo sin llegar a morir del todo.
Sybille Bedford was a German-born writer who wrote in English.
A Legacy, one of her half-dozen novels, has autobiographical elements.The story involves two German families, the Merzs who are Jewish and the Feldens who are Catholic.
In addition, Bedford is not hesitant to employ temporal jumps to suddenly illuminate events and motivations, jumps that are not always obvious until the actions and interactions begin to play themselves out.This is a complex, almost mesmerizing work that provides not only immense enjoyment in the reading but also an opportunity to reflect on our own lives and interpersonal interactions.
I want to read more of Bedford’s writing.
En un principio parece no tener trama, pero poco a poco la historia se va encauzando hasta no solo construir una trama, sino tener incluso un giro.No se lo aconsejo a todo el mundo, pues puede ser considerado demasiado lento, con un humor demasiado absurdo, por no mencionar que nada parece decirse claramente, el lector debe sacar sus propias conclusiones de los sobrentendidos y medias verdades; pero a mí me ha seducido esta historia familiar un poco loca, un poco nostálgica, que me pareció bastante fresca.
My reviews here are summary, not comprehensive, so I won't clarify the story for readers who are on the fence about reading a difficult novel.
I think of this book as combining the depth and lushness (and vague loveliness) of Proust with the 19th century novel tradition of Buddenbrooks or similar.
The facts and finances and family connections matter in this book; the reader needs to go slowly.
I think reading this book in middle age will also help.
I read it so long ago that I can't offer more about "The Legacy" than I can here: I do know that I read it in the pre-Internet 70s or 80s, and so could not easily learn more about Sybille Bedford, and was stunned to learn that The Legacy was not her story, at all, nor was it her greatest achievement.
That, I think, is her account of Aldous Huxley's wife Maria, in her biography of Huxley, an account so compelling that it has compelled me to fall violently in love with Maria Huxley, who died long ago.
A tiresome, difficult novel about the fortunes of a pair of families in fin-de-siecle Germany, one Catholic, one Jewish.
Having intermarried and then remained parallel after said marriage died in the wife's death, the story twists and turns through banal goings-on, with a flash-in-the-pan style that would serve well in a different kind of story, but in one like this, driven, ostensibly, by character, never allows anything more than the shallowest view of the characters.Often touted as darkly hinting at fascism and the Nazis, one comes away with little sense of that since what is happening is sometimes so unclear.
Don't be dissuaded from reading this beautiful book full of irony and subtle humour if you are a reader who enjoys doing a bit of the work and does not expect to be guided through every character and plot development with the literary equivalent of airport runway lights.
Sybille Bedford's experience of the twentieth century was shaped by her mix of German, Italian and Jewish ancestry.
It is clear that in writing about nineteenth century Germany she sees a connection or "legacy" but she does not feel the need to spell this out to us.
The plot - such as it was - had potential: two interrelated upper-class families in Wilhelmine Germany, one Jewish, the other Catholic, a few difficult marriages, and one son's terrible experience at a harsh cadet school which would have repercussions for the entire family. The execution was horrid. Critics intend it as a compliment when they say someone writes dialogue like Ivy Compton-Burnett; it's not. Consider it the kiss of death.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢حزينة جدا رغم كل كوميديتها
Clearly the roots of both World Wars are under scrutiny here, but they are buried so deep under the pretentious style of writing that it is hard to dig them out.The characters are so lightly sketched as to be transparent, and their feelings and motives impossible to discern most of the time.
The story hinges on a number of significant marriages, but we never truly understand why the characters undertake them, especially when some of them seem spectacularly unsuited.There is a good story lurking within this book, but the writing style does not do it justice.
By this I mean that, somehow, one is oppressed by a stink of class, not in the actual subject matter but the stance of the writer.
The same oppression emanates from English "working class books" (whatever these may be).
England, after all, does not have intellectuals.
German or French intellectuals are elevated above petty notions of class.
But her book is written with economy and sensitivity - to a level one scarcely sees in contemporary writing.
Such readers hardly exist now, and that seems one of the most under-represented ideas in modern culture.
The root cause is the lack of sophisticated readers.
As I was becoming comfortably immersed in high-society, pre-WW1 Europe, enjoying the kind of jaunty elegance depicted in the Impressionist paintings one character shrewdly collects, I began to sense an ominous undercurrent: time seemed to be speeding up.
The story of the mingling of the Merzes and the Feldens starts with the patriarchs of these two families: both are near the pinnacles of their separate realms (the Jewish haute-bourgeousie and the Catholic aristocracy) but their most important luxury is to be able to live out their lifespans while time still moves at a human pace.
A Legacy is an amusing, enlightening Grand Tour that quietly reminds you of the tragedies, both small and large, of a world where history has overtaken a person's ability to adapt.

Bedford is one of the most underrated great writers of our times and she seems totally unknown here in the US.
Her trilogy, composed of the following titles: A Compass Error / A Favorite of the Gods / A Legacy, is a wonderful story based on her own life in Europe betweent the two wars.
Those three different novels really make up for one unique book, and need to be read together.
The result is a masterpiece, tender and comical, which makes you wish you had met Bedford in her young age.
Worthy of all the more famous great British books of the same era.
Sketchy.Some clever dialogue (reminiscent of an Ivy Compton-Burnett novel) interspersed with undeveloped characters in a family drama set in Wilhelmine Germany. There's some wit about the follies of the bourgeoisie in Pre-World War I Europe. In the better parts, it reminded me of a Germanic "Galsworthy Saga." But there's just too much missing. It's like watching a foreign language film without subtitles. And I gave up caring at all about the characters about half-way through. Moreover, the whole narrative structure seems faulty to me.
I don't know quite what to say about this book as I enjoyed it but was not really sure what was going on. I don't think this has ever happened to me before so this book is obviously unique if nothing else. It had a vague, eccentric quality to it. I really liked the characters but kept getting them mixed up and was never sure what they were doing or who they were. It may well have been that I was expecting something a lot more straightforward than this subtle and rather charming work.
Sybille Bedford's first novel, very autobiographical with a stunning sense of place and of a time in Germany history now long gone. Bedford's prose as always is glorious. Read the full review here. http://heavenali.wordpress.com/2014/0...
Es cierto que lo leí por buenas opiniones pero me ha resultado lento y pesado. Si le doy esta nota es porque representa bien. la historia de la Alemania antes de la gran guerra caldo de cultivo de lo que aconteció después

There are three families interwoven by marriage; two from the rural German southwest, both aristocratic, one of them Catholic and in financial demise, but still living preposterously privileged lives, the other one very rich, of political influence and belonging to some obscure religious faction (Jesuit?
This story frame is almost the only worthwhile aspect of the book: the way the 1920s yellow press lashes out this shit storm on the family, kindling resentment and envy in the population by whipping up every possible stereotype about the military, the aristocracy and the Jewish upper class.
And while parts of the book make an interesting read, the narration fades considerably after the baron’s first wife dies.
To my surprise the book was set in Germany, further investigation revealed that Bedford herself was born in Germany.
As Sybille Bedford, a married name, she was familiar to me, I think, because she ended up living in England for many, many years and only died in 2006 at the age of 94.
A Legacy was published in 1956 and is set in Germany in the years leading up to the First World War. It is apparently a thinly disguised account of Bedford’s family and the slow erosion of the tolerant, aristocratic culture of Southern Germany as affected by the growing militarism of the country under the rule of Kaiser Wilhelm.
The point seems to be to show how cut off from the events around them these two families were, and by implication, how oblivious they were to their position in that society and what was to come in just a few decades.
The characters at first promised to be interesting but as time wore on, the trivial quality of their existence blurred the distinctions among them so that it became hard to sustain any interest in the outcome of their lives.
I understand that this was part of the point she was making about the families, but I found it hard to care about halfway through and it was a bit of a slog until the end.
The action of A Legacy takes place in Prussia around the start of the 20th century, but this is not exactly an historical novel since nothing that happens in it has much to do with the period or the setting.
It is a family novel with complex relationships, entertaining in places and distressing in others.
That could have been intentional, kind of clever, but it is done awkwardly enough that you have to wonder whether it was indeed what the author was trying for, or had she just lost track of loose ends?
I found it kind of bleh.


A very strong mid-20th century novel prose style combined with the unique and dying class divisions theme and a nicely placed narrator (who is the child of a couple of the characters, but for a while keeping it a mystery to the reader what exactly this child's status was). Nancy Mitford said it was good, and I'm inclined to agree with her.
