https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1140578.Mr_Standfast
'Greenmantle' is an altogether more rollicking and gregarious work with various allies and companions along the way as well as the window-dressing of exotic settings, although it isn't bereft of moments of singular intensity.
Even though Hannay has his share of comrades, and even a love interest (described as 'childlike' or 'like a slim boy' rather a lot of times - was Buchan a closeted Uranian?) this novel plunges deep into the ideological currents that surround the war and its dissenters, taking us far from the realms of amiable jingoism at times.
I enjoyed this book tremendously and it is my favorite Hannay adventure to date. (Or perhaps it is just that I am getting to know the characters better. We'll see with the next book.) The parts where Hannay was spying were exciting and fun reading. There was a bit too much military strategy and action near the end for my taste, but it was minor compared to the rest of the novel.
However, just a few thoughts on the connections between the two texts...In his autobiography Memory-Hold-The-Door, Buchan attributes his regard for The Pilgrim’s Progress to ‘its picture of life as a pilgrimage over hill and dale, where surprising adventures lurked by the wayside, a hard road with now and then long views to cheer the traveller and a great brightness at the end of it’.
At one point, Hannay sends a message of reassurance for Mary: ‘If you see Miss Lamington you can tell her I’m past the Hill Difficulty.
(In order to worm his way into a spy ring, Hannay has to pose as a pacifist.)And as in Buchan's other books, it is precisely what Buchan doesn't mean to show us that is particularly illuminating: the generous "condescenscion" of the upper class General Hannay in appreciating the salt of the earth British soldier, the notion that he as an officer has an orderly as a servant, the casual racism of references to Asians, Italians, and Africans, the demonization of "the Boche."I was given this by a friend who was editing a new biography of Oliver Wendell Holmes; she noted that this was one of the fifty books that Holmes read in the summer of 1919, when the court was out of session.
Tears galore for me at the finish of this splendid tale: also a wonderful examination of people under the pressure of strife and war."In this nail-biting adventure story, Hannay must outwit a foe far more intelligent than himself; muster the courage to propose to the lovely, clever Mary Lamington; and survive a brutal war.
Although Mr. Standfast is a sequel to The Thirty-Nine Steps, it offers far more characterisation and philosophy than the earlier book.
For its pace and suspense, its changes of scenery and thrilling descriptions of the last great battles against the Germans, Mr Standfast offers everything that has made its author so enduringly popular."
From BBC Radio 4:Agent Richard Hannay hunts his nemesis, the head of a First World War German spy ring. Stars David Robb and Clive Merrison.
I didn't even think of her as pretty, any more than a man thinks of the good looks of the friend he worships.""I loved to watch her, when the servants had gone, with her elbows on the table like a schoolboy..."None of this is terribly convincing; the love Hannay feels for his war-crippled friend Peter Pienaar, the titular Mr. Standfast (a character from Pilgrim's Progress), is rather more so.The Germans have a pretty easy time recruiting the British to work for them, someone tells Hannay.
These are men who join in wars because they want "fresh air and exercise." (Think about that for a minute.
Not a terrible spy thriller
Like the second book, Greenmantle, it is set during WWI, and once again Hannay is pulled off the front lines with orders to infiltrate a German espionage ring.
Although Mr. Standfast has some exciting set pieces, like Hannay's tramp over the Isle of Skye, off Scotland's coast, and his breakneck drive and later glacier climb through the Alps, the novel suffers from too many of these sorts of adventures--in short, the book sprawls in a way the more tightly focused Hannay novels don't.
Mr Standfast, published in 1919, was the third of John Buchan’s Richard Hannay espionage novels.The success of The Thirty-Nine Steps had taken Buchan by surprise.
Pacifist and anti-war activists in Britain are being used by the Germans to undermine the Allied war effort and Hannay must track down the master spy behind this plot.Hannay finds that pacifists are not quite what he expected.
The rather crusty 40-year-old brigadier finds himself falling madly in love with the 19-year-old Mary Lamington.
He was also a masterful story teller and the Hannay novels are essential reading for anyone with a love for spy fiction.

I hadn't enough courage to be able to take chances with it, though I was afraid of many things, the thing I feared most mortally was being afraid."Chesterton said that a good soldier fights not so much because he hates the enemy, but because he loves those behind him: Buchan does an excellent job illustrating that sentiment.
He also manages to pull off at least two major plot climaxes and a bunch of helter-skelter escapades (Hannay is that word incarnate), not to mention the funny Scots characters that pepper Buchan's writings ('For the first wee bit,' Hamilton reported, 'we thocht he was gaun daft).
Despite its age, (published in 1919, almost one hundred years ago), this was a gripping book which I found hard to put down. The battles of the First World War were mentioned a lot and the names all meant something to me - third battle of Ypres, Polygon Wood, the Somme, Amiens, etc. And the German spy that the Intelligence Service was trying to catch was very slippery. Richard Hannay got himself into and out of a number of difficulties. Highly recommended.
Very suspenseful. This book's strong point is the suspense, although I like the character of Richard Hannay. Overall, very worth reading, and probably you'll have to read it all at once, but it's not as good as the first book, the 39 Steps, partly because the ending was slightly drawn out and then suddenly cut off. I guess it was permissible, but I didn't prefer it.
After reading Mr. Standfast, it's clear I should read Pilgrim's Progress, as it plays an important part in the story.
Of course, being a doofus, I couldn't start at the beginning (except I've seen two versions of the film adaptations).Richard Hannay, the main character, is a British general temporarily reassigned to intelligence to infiltrate a group of people who seem to be not for the (un)United Kingdom.
At times it moved quickly, at other times it moved nowhere, and sometimes it moved in quicksand.Hannay is generally well characterized in the book, for we see most everything through his eyes and ears.
There were some exciting passages in this book, but overall I found that the faults exhibited in the two earlier Hannay tales, namely a tendency to pontificate on character, fate, and philosophy plus a heavy reliance on coincidence to advance the plot were more pronounced here.
Buchan also makes frequent references to events from the previous two books, so this is far from a stand-alone tale.
The central plot of the book sets Hannay up against his Moriarty, an evil arch-enemy he's crossed swords with in the past.
Hannay is sent "undercover" among pacifists and conscientious objectors, which gives Buchan endless opportunity to natter on and on about the National Character.
I believe the protagonist Richard Hannay features in other of Buchan's books and he is certainly well drawn.
There are lots of twists and turns and predictably a romance along the way and a sacrifice at the end which allows the heroes (the British of course) to win out.
Even though it now seems a bit dated and certainly it was predictable, I found it a satisfying read.
Overall, I enjoyed it even though it wasn't really my type of book and I was a bit disappointed that the part set in Letchworth only comprised a chapter or two at the beginning.
Mr Standfast is the third book in the John Hannay thriller/ spy series written by John Buchan.
The first two, The 39 Steps and Greenmantle, were both excellent and this third story follows easily with another excellent, well-paced, thriller.
In this story, John Hannay, now a General in the British Army is called back from the front (WWI) to help find an old adversary.
Hannay follows a trail to northern Scotland and back to the front in this wartime adventure.
There are excellent characters in this story, Buchan writes thoughtfully and the story, especially the ending is all excellent.
An excellent follow-up to the first two books.
I found this 3rd installment of the Richard Hannay story gripping! Although it could probably be read as a stand-alone, it does refer to the first two books of the series: The Thirty-nine Steps and Greenmantle, and I would strongly recommend starting with the first book.
Another thrilling, fast-paced, WWI novel by Buchan featuring the adventures of Richard Hannay and his associates Pieter Pienaar, John Blenkiron and Mary Lamington. This time Hannay tracks down German spies and his main opponent is a master of disguise called Ivery who pursues him through Europe... With, as a bit of an unusual backdrop, 'The Pilgrim's Progress'...Though a bit overly descriptive at times, this classic war adventure novel is loaded with action, adventure and excitmement on every page...
This is the 3rd installment of the Richard Hannay series. Hannay is a General of infantry troops in Africa when he is called to go undercover to flush out a German spy ring. The book does a good job n character development and the scenes and action are very good. The book does have its slow spots but I have never read a book that is non stop action front to back. So far I thing that this is the best book of the series.
Buchan really lets his politics show through in this one. There are passages in this book where Dick Hannay takes a back seat and Buchan steps into the lead role, damning socialism, labor unions, and especially pacifists. Once Hannay slips back into the book, the narrative regains it strength and the plot surpasses that of Greenmantle, and at times the pace resembles the breakneck chase of 39 steps. All in all, good book...just don't take Buchan too seriously.
An exciting and thought provoking read ...An excellent read if you like old fashioned adventure stories, even if at times a bit far fetched ...but overall the story carries you along. One of Buchan's best, I think.
Another thrilling yarn by John Buchan!
Perhaps the best of the Richard Hannay books. Alas, Buchan's wonderful yarns can seem tarnished by his Imperialist and pro-war views, but seen in context, they are first rate.
If you're interested in Mr. Standfast, you first need to read The Thirty-Nine Steps and Greenmantle, the previous two adventures starring Richard Hannay.
It is a great letdown after Greenmantle, which is so far the high point in the series for me.
Like the other books in the series, this one is set during WWI and stars Major-General Sir Richard Hannay, KCB, OBE, DSO, Legion of Honour.
If you're an Anglophile and you love this sort of WWI spy adventure, and you understand that it's full of jingo and can take it for what it is, you'll like this book!

'Over in Skye wass the fine land for black cattle, and every man had his bit herd on the hillside.
But the lairds said it wass better for sheep, and then they said it wass not good for sheep, so they put it under deer, and now there is no black cattle anywhere in Skye.' I tell you it was like sad music on the bagpipes hearing that old fellow.
I used to be a fan of Buchan, but now more than 15 years afer I read 39 steps, his characters are all too stereotype and his world view too preoccupied to be really interesting. Eventhough, his stories are still enjoyable.This story took 100 pages before something happened and could well have ended after the spy was catched, but lingers on for 50 more pages. So actually half of the story was good, the other half was too long.
Third in the series where Richard Hannay, now General Hannay, enters the Secret Service during WWI. He is working as an undercover pacifist in Britain. to bring down the Boche regime operating in the UK. The story takes us through Scotland, Switzerland, Italy and France and the trenches. Good story, rather rambling and indirect a times but it was written a 100 years ago. 3.5 stars.
