https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63723.The_Emperor_s_Snuff_Box
For fans of Midsomer Murders, this could easily be an episode straight out of the series. I definitely did not predict who the murderer was or how the murder happened. I think the characters could have used a bit more development and there were some slight misogynistic tones to the book (not uncommon for the time when it was written though). However, it was an exciting mystery that kept me turning pages until the end!
This was a mystery that was carefully crafted and full of tension, which is amazing given how short of a period of time the story takes place in.
Normally, or at least in my experience, when a mystery takes place in a short period of time, the book seems to be frantic in it's pacing, almost schizophrenic, not sure where it's supposed to be going.
Sometimes I could achieve this but other times, as in this book, I couldn't.Based in France, the story begins when Helena, the wife of Sir Maurice Lawes, finds him murdered.
Goron investigating the murder is that Eve had never seen the snuff box before the murder but she claims that she saw it at a distance of fifty feet.I had my suspicisons about Ned Atwood, the divorced husband of Eve who reappears on the scene but I couldn't put my finger on it.I'm not going into the story further.
A neat murder mystery with the main clues hidden in plain sight and a snarky author's voice. Dated, especially in respect to the main female characters, but I had an enjoyable time with it.
4,5 stelle perché 5 sono solo per i capolavori...mi è piaciuto tantissimo...molto scorrevole e trama fluida e piacevole. Gran bel giallo con un finale nn impossibile da prevedere, ma comunque intrigante e originale!!!
They are in a bedroom when they witness a murder being committed in a room across the street.
They are the only witnesses and when an innocent man is charged with the crime, they must decide whether to reveal what they know, making their affair public, or to remain silent.
They witness the murder of Tony's father, who lives across the street.
Through a series of bizarre circumstances, Eve gets locked out of her house, gets blood on her nightgown, and a piece of a shattered snuff box that was found next to the murdered man is discovered in her clothes.
The solution is pure Carr who was famous for his locked room mysteries.
While they argue, they witness the man in the house opposite get his head smashed in while sitting at his desk by the window, studying a newly acquired antique.First of all, I was a little put off by the fact that none of my favorite detectives made an appearance in this book: No Sir Henry, no Dr. Fell.
But, to be fair, even though I missed the presence of a forceful sleuth, this novel isn't really focused on the detective, but rather, the victims.This book is also a little uneven.
It has most of its action at the very front, which is unusual and something I'm not used to.
Interesting mystery. I liked the premise, the setting and the characters, though I found the writing style a bit much at times. Lines like: "Power of suggestion," screamed Helena strike me as a little overwrought, and the author's technique of fading out of scenes just as someone is about to reveal something important was a little cornball. But overall I enjoyed the book and expect I'll give Carr another try.
Agatha Christie I missed you a lot till I found Carr....sorrow gives way to joy...surprises are still in store....amazing ending
damn what a plot twist
Ti volti e l'ombra di passaggio che intravedi nel salotto di casa ti pare quella dell'assassino, avanzante con passo furtivo e avvolto nel suo impermeabile nero; senti un improvviso fiato sul collo e ti sembra la lama fredda e affilata di un coltello o la canna puntata di una rivoltella; la luce offuscata e tremolante che l'abat-jour getta sul tuo tranquillo angolo lettura di colpo diventa la splendente luce di un salone corredato da mobili antichi e tappeti lussuosi, su uno dei quali viene rinvenuto un cadavere.
Un nuovo inchino al maestro che anche stavolta mi ha regalato una gemma di puro giallo classico architettata con sublime intelligenza.
It's a must-read for all murder-mystery fans.The plot is fast-paced and crystal clear, with very few characters.
Carr balances the comic and tragic aspects of the story very well - at times, there are genuinely chuckle-worthy lines and at other times you feel real pangs of sympathy for some of the characters.
Indeed, although this book is short and to-the-point, some of the characters are sufficiently well-developed that you really feel for them.There are novel-worthy twists throughout the book, and your sympathies shift accordingly, so you are never quite certain who to root for.
Finally, someone wrote a review and I couldn't resist searching for the book, this book, to read.It is a short, fast-paced, character-driven, mature, psychological-suspense novel full of tension, and I've discovered another author to add to my collection.
The wait was worth it.I think this story added a bit of harmony to one of Agatha Christie's themes, the eternal triangle, with a clever, simple plot and Carr's talented and clever misdirection flung the solution smack in my face and then laughed at me as I rejected it to settle on a different suspect.
Miellyttävä puolen päivän lukukokemus. Oon varmasti lukenut tän joskus viisitoista vuotta sitten, ja mulle jäi epäselväksi muistinko ratkaisun jotenkin alitajuisesti vai oonko vain lukenut dekkareita niin paljon että nappasin heti kirjan alkupuolelta pari murhaajan paljastanutta detaljia. Juoni oli kuitenkin muutenkin kiintoisa eikä murhaajan tietäminen haitannut, motiivia en kuitenkaan arvannut etukäteen.Jotkut henkilöt oli vähän epämiellyttäviä ja erilaiset kaksinaismoralistiset asenteet harmitti. Onneksi niihin puututtiin juonessa. Muiden ulkomaille sijoittuvien klassisten brittidekkarien tapaan ei-englantilaisia pantiin taas aika halvalla, brittien ylemmyyttä ei problematisoitu.
I don't think I read this back in the day when I read so many classic mysteries. I figured it out just before the reveal, but mostly because other people had been eliminated. I recently read something that referred to this book, but I haven't remembered what that something was. Eve is an interesting and complex heroine surrounded by stereotypic males. That is one trouble with the "classics." Carr plays fair and supplies the clues.
Most authors have a certain style or method of writing. John Dickson Carr's series books are consistent that way but his stand alones tend to vary tremendously. Reading some of them without knowing who the author is, you would probably never guess it was him. This is one of those. It has a clever plot and enough suspense and tension to keep you turning the pages. I thought it was one of his better stand alones.
Absolute axis-shifting moment when the murderer is revealed. However, I can't give it full five stars because the romance b/w the detective and the lady is simply not convincing (all said and done, I thought she was at her best with Ned) and as for Ned thanking Pagan gods after his murderous deed....simply did not expect this from a writer of Carr's caliber. Left a bad taste in my mouth.*First Line: When Eve Neill divorced Ned Atwood, the suit was not contested.
Un'idea geniale!
A really creative plot and well written mystery. Who would imagine the shape of the snuff box would be that significant?
The author has written numerous murder mystery novels, usually of the locked room type, and other seemingly impossible situations.
My daughter got hold of this one, complete with yellowed pages, but the antique state of the book fits with the slightly archaic style of writing.I found it a little difficult to read - I guess writing styles have changed somewhat in the last half century or more.
In this context, a murder mystery where every character is initially suspect, it is disconcerting to be told categorically what this or that one is feeling.
I wasn't at all sure who I could trust, or even whether I could trust the author.The mystery itself wasn't too difficult, surprisingly.
Another excellent murder mystery by the master of the locked room. If I had guessed whodunit it was only because of the old trick, the one who couldn't possibly do it, rather than any actual intelligence.
Once again, Carr managed to fooled me and led me to a different direction when i was just stumbled on the right path.
Curse you Carr!
xDSatu pelajaran yang saya dapatkan dari novel adalah bagaimana penggunaan 'Murphy's law' dalam sebuah cerita misteri.
Yup, semua itu sangat berperan besar dalam novel 'The Emperor's Snuff Box' ini.Hal tersebut juga memperkuat kekurangsukaan saya terhadap misteri yang menyuguhkan well-thought-out-murder-plan, kaya Kindaichi dengan Yuichi Takato, Det School Q dengan Meiosei.
Entah kenapa saya kurang suka cerita seperti itu dan lebih suka cerita yang melibatkan improvisasi dalam pembunuhan alih-alih mengikuti rencana tanpa ada halangan berarti.

This is one of the most perfectly plotted mysteries I've read. The book is thin on characterization, and the misogyny of the times is difficult for this 21st century woman to take in stride. That being said, Carr is at the top of his form with this intense, tightly woven tale of murder, deception, and double dealing. Well worth a read if for nothing else, to see a master at the height of his powers.
Il Giallo D.O.C.Un giallo che è un piccolo capolavoro di concisione, arguzia e perfetta simmetria in tutte le sue parti, scritto in maniera elegante ed esemplare nel rappresentare ciò che un giallo di classe dovrebbe essere. Da oggi in poi quando penserò ad un romanzo giallo perfetto mi verrà sicuramente in mente questo gioiellino di John Dickson Carr.
One of Carr's best stand-alone mysteries. Clever, compelling, and entertaining.
Melodramatic, rather trashy nonseries bit of pulp from Carr, but nifty misdirection and a very good bit of clueing (the snuff box itself) make it highly instructive for students of the craft.
Not my average detective tale. Way to go Carr! Amazing twisted ending.
A thrilling novel. I was too preoccupied with the story to stop reading. It's one of the best detective stories I have read so far!
nice mystery book; GADwomen are not portraid very well and certainly not in any equal way to men...
