https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23341894-every-last-word
This book is a saccharine sweet fairy tale version of a very real mental illness, Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), as well as the very serious issue of bullying, without true emotional depth.
I don't obsessively count things, I don't get massive panic attacks, I don't get major anxiety attacks, but I know what it feels like to have your own mind turn on you at times.
Real life doesn't have friends with whom you can constantly click, with whom you immediately reveal your inner self.This book not only deals with OCD, but with the issue of bullying, and it deals with it in a manner that feels completely false.
(3.5) This was a really nice read and I think it dealt with mental illness in a respectful way, but I did find it to be a bit inconsistent at times. For the most part I enjoyed it and I loved the poetry aspect of the story.
Her first chapter to becoming a braver, more assertive and accepting person starts right there.
And who knows, maybe it’ll even bring her love?Despite the stereotyped Eights who bring a contained amount of shallowness and ‘‘clichédness’’ to the story, it’s a deep, meaningful book.
Many of us understand what it feels like to have to end a relationship that’s been going for a long time, because of the natural phenomena that are called ‘‘growing up’’ and ‘‘finding our true self.’’ YET, it never is easy.I loved the flirting.
You don’t even have to be a fan of mental illness books to love this.
A very beautiful and touching story.
I feel like I've read so many crappy reps of mental illness lately it's just encouraging to finally read one that a) cares about mentally ill teensb) actually has POSITIVE REP of medication and therapyc) has lovely and supportive parentsd) doesn't use romance as a curee) shows dark sides but also ways to build yourself back upf) SAYS YOU CAN STILL BE MENTALLY ILL AND HAVE A GOOD LIFEAlso one thing I REALLY liked about the therapy too is that: it was professionally done.
Like Sam's Queen B friends were, yes, really nasty at times, but they were also PEOPLE.
i cried for nearly the entire last fifty pages and i can't even tell you why. it's not even sad?? this book is just really beautiful and very well done and so important. i need to go wipe my nose.
Sam's story was so moving and my heart was honestly pounding towards the end.
This book touches on some really serious topics like depression, anxiety, and mental disorders, but I thought that Tamara Ireland Stone did it beautifully.
This is the type of book that makes YOU want to write..
I feel like many people that have been through high school will relate to what Sam goes through..
I loved Sam's character and was so, so pleased by her progress just like Sue throughout the story.
This book made me laugh, cry, and really inspired me to write more.
Thank you Tamara for this beautiful book!
La manera en la que trata temas complicados, como es el caso del trastorno obsesivo-compulsivo en adolescentes, me ha gustado muchísimo, y espero que con esta reseña os convenza a leer esta obra.La protagonista de la novela, quien padece el trastorno comentado, me ha parecido un personaje más complejo de lo que se muestra durante la trama y hay varias cosas destacables.
Hasta la última palabra tiene varios elementos como la amistad o la superación personal que son de lo más importante, y de hecho, diría que la base de la novela.
Todos los elementos de la novela juegan un papel importante, y creo que es como debería ser: que todo confluya en el protagonista, de algún modo u otro.De verdad, me ha gustado mucho.
The main character, Sam, has OCD which is an anxiety disorder.
I suffer from an anxiety disorder too, so I really wanted to read this and see how I could connect with it and how well Tamara Ireland Stone portrayed it.
I really wanted them to be fleshed out a lot more because I feel as though they played a huge role in helping Sam through everything (especially at the start and end of the novel, as well as before the events in the novel even happen.) Other than that, what a beautiful, engaging and inspiring novel.
Oh my god. I actually have no words.
O.M.G. this book, I loved it, like legit loved it. It starts out odd, but I think that’s just because I wasn’t really sure what I was getting into, but once I got into it I fell in love!  “Everyone’s got something. Some people are just better actors than others.”   Samantha McAlister is one of the most popular girls in school, from the outside looking in her life is perfect. She is pretty, intelligent, and friends with the right people. No one knows she suffers from OCD, which is real a testamen
It starts out odd, but I think that’s just because I wasn’t really sure what I was getting into, but once I got into it I fell in love!
It’s the beginning of the school year and Samantha meets a new friend who changes her life and opens up a whole new world for her.
Writing allows her to express herself and her new friends help her realize what’s important.
I love that Every Last Word helps teach that message.
I like to know where I stand with people, and I figure I owe them the same courtesy.
Hm. Really interesting look at a teen with OCD. I'm not entirely sure everything the book tried to tackle actually worked--there's a lot going on here--but there is an interesting twist, and the story kept my interest overall. More thinking required on this one.
Here is my full, spoiler free review for this book: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LlekVG... it was absolutely amazing and I hope everyone gives this beautiful story a chance xI received a free copy of this book from Disney Hyperion in exchange for an honest review. All opinions are my own.
FINALLLYYYYY on sale!!! Go buy it!!! NOOOW! Click HERE to purchase If you could read my mind, you wouldn't be smiling. Sometimes a book just calls to you. Sometimes it consumes your every waking thought until you can finally pick it up. Sometimes.....when you get an opportunity to read a book before anyone else you realize just how lucky you are, because you just knew from the moment you saw it that it was going to be special, perfect, just what you've been dying to read. That's exactly how I fe
Not often do I like my ARCs...but from the moment I opened this book, it owned my soul.This is a story about a girl with OCD.
But Samantha knows in her heart that this club is just what she needs-she knows that it's just the outlet her OCD and inner turmoils need and that it could possibly change the way she thinks every day-it might be the thing that helps her focus her thoughts and dilute the obsession she feels at every waking moment.
AJ and Samantha were two amazing characters that I became viscerally attached to and I never wanted their story to end.
4 stars!  4 stars for my 4th YA book of the year! Every Last Word is a story about a teenage girl who is dealing with OCD. Samantha McAllister appears to be perfect on the outside, but inside she's a mess. She constantly worries about her friends finding out about her condition and the fact that she sees a psychiatrist. When Sam meets Caroline and gets introduced to the kids in Poet's Corner, everything changes for her. She finds herself coming out of her shell and embracing who she is. Samantha
4 stars for my 4th YA book of the year!
She constantly worries about her friends finding out about her condition and the fact that she sees a psychiatrist.
She finds herself coming out of her shell and embracing who she is.
I love how she dealt with all of her struggles and overcame her issues.
Sam learns not only to accept herself but to stand up for herself and have friends that accept who she is.
AJ really deep down cares for Sam and is there for her no matter what he finds out about her.
I love when that happens!
Samantha becomes Sam when she meets a girl, Caroline, girl who will change her life forever.
I don’t think I’ve read any book about a character with this mental illness –OCD, so I can’t say much about this aspect of the story, if it’s done well or not, compared with other books.
(I’m talking about Sam’s new friends) I loved Caroline.
She’s sweet and funny, supportive, considerate and I loved how good she was for Sam. I loved their interactions and how much Sam learns from her new friend.
Needless to say from that moment I had to know more.An important aspect in this story is bullying.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to Disney Book Group and NetGalley.) “My friends can’t know about my OCD or the debilitating, uncontrollable thoughts, because my friends are normal. And perfect. They pride themselves on normalcy and perfection, and they can’t ever find out how far I am from those two things.” This was a YA story about a girl with OCD.I felt quite sorry for Sam in this story, her friends obviously made her feel quite awkw
This was a YA story about a girl with OCD.I felt quite sorry for Sam in this story, her friends obviously made her feel quite awkward at times, and it wasn’t nice how they refused to even call her ‘Sam’ instead of ‘Samantha’.
It was bad enough that she had to deal with the OCD, without having to constantly worry what her friends would think if they found out about it.
It was nice that she was finally able to be herself a bit more, and had friends that she felt she could rely on.
“If you could read my mind, you wouldn't be smiling.”  Every Last Word is the story of Sam, a teenage girl with a debilitating case of OCD.
With some encouragement from a new friend, Sam makes an effort to join this new group who loves poetry and expression.
I love reading stories where the main character becomes disillusioned with their current life style and looks to other ways of spending their time.
Her OCD was based on words and thoughts, and by joining the poetry group she learned a way to manage and control them in a healthy way.
I appreciate so much the relationship between Sam and her psychiatrist, even involving Sam’s mom in actually contributing with her therapy at home.
The story becomes even more interesting when Sam finds a great avenue to refocus her overactive brain and imagination and her anxiety over her relationship with her popular friends through Poetry Corner where she meets these awesome people and adorably, her love interest, AJ.
I understand that somewhere along the way, the plot became a bit too unrealistic and failed quite a bit to address certain serious issues in the novel, but the important positive messages, wonderful, relatable, witty writing, its unexpected plot twists and surprises and the little beautiful pieces of poetry scattered throughout the novel made up of for the book's few shortcomings.
4.5!! This was incredible and so unexpected. Go read this!!
Ya no porque trate una enfermedad mental como hacen tantas otras novelas, sino porque es algo más en la trama y tenemos la vida de una joven que lidia día a día con su transtorno.Lo que más me ha gustado de la novela, sin duda alguna, es la protagonista, Sam. Samantha está muy bien construida, es un personaje redondo, que cuenta con varios pilares que la sostienen.
Aún así ese giro final no se da tan al final como esperaba sino que la historia continúa y eso lo ha mejorado bastante.Hasta la última palabra es una novela que he disfrutado bastante, que me ha gustado porque me ha acercado a una realidad que no conocía -la que viven las personas que parecen TOCs- y que se lee con facilidad.
See more reviews at YA Midnight Reads3.5 starsEvery Last Word is one of those books that had me wanting to smash it into a pulp from page 1, but had me sniffling a bit during the last few chapters.This story follows Sam, a girl dealing who was diagnosed with Purely Obsessional OCD (aka Pure-O) at the age of 11.
Within their little posse, the 'main girl', Alexis (of course that's her name <.<), has basically created her own social ladder amongst the 4 other girls she calls her best friends."Not Hailey.
Just wow!! I love this book to pieces! Added to my top reads of 2015. I found so much of myself in Sam and I was sad when her story ended too soon. Everyone needs to grab a copy of this book! You'll be glad you did :)
I think everyone who thinks it's okay to throw about the term 'OCD' when they talk about how they like a clean bedroom should read this book. YA fiction based around the reality of mental illness at its finest. See my full video review here: https://youtu.be/36YPI1tqKGU
Not the quirky kind, but the pitch-black type that could make a person question their self and perception of reality.Every Last Word is the story of Samantha McAllister, she is your standard YA contemporary protagonist.
Until one day, she meets Caroline.Caroline introduces her to the Poet’s Corner, where she met a group of outcast students bonding over words and music.I am easily attracted to books that revolve around mental health issue.
I will never stop recommending books similarly to Every Last Word.Review also posted at Young Adult Hollywood.
I really enjoyed this book.
I don't normally enjoy contemporaries that take place in a high school setting but this felt different.
I will admit that The writing style is fairly simplistic and the narrator often over explains things.
But the main character is very endearing and I enjoyed her journey immensely.
There was just something sweet about this book and I feel like it would be very helpful for teens struggling with mental health.
It reinforces the message that everyone is different and there is no concrete definition of normal - especially when it comes to how your brain works.
I can’t totally speak for the mental illness representation (and I looked for a few reviews but didn’t find much), but it seemed very respectful and well done to me.
All of those things are usual seen in a negative light so it was great to see them positively here.The story was entertaining except for one *spoilery* aspect that would have been much better with more mystery.
I prefer subtext and subtly to being hit over the head with foreshadowing to the point that things are spelled out for you.Overall the story was great and portrayed mental illness well, but was missing subtext and a deeper heart.
Really loved reading this book.
If you liked Made You Up, which is one of my favourite YA books, you're probably going to like this one as well.
And vice-versa.I absolutely devoured this book.
Sam is a great narrator and she explains everything well so you can understand her life and her choices without a problem.
I've been kind of drifting away from YA contemporary books, mostly because the authors just keep using overrated tropes that I have no interest in reading, but this book was a breath of fresh air.
Great job Tamara!
Sam has hidden this fact from her so called friends all of her life.
She takes Sam into a different world where the so called "misfits" of the school hang out.
Sam meets a boy named Aj through this group, he doesn't want her there when she first shows up.
Meeting these new people is helping Sam with her OCD, she feels more calm.
And Sam is starting to pull away from the group she is in...
I think you should read the book :) Kudos to the author for mentioning some things about OCD at the end of the book.
One day, just after the new term starts, she meets Caroline, who seems to know a lot about Sam, and urges her to find Poet's Corner.
As she makes more and more new friends with other members of Poet's Cornee, her OCD symptoms don't seem as bad, and she might be finally ready to let other people in on her secret.
Caroline appears at the perfect time to help her, though Sam did a lot to help herself.
Honestly, the only thing I disliked about this book was Sam's original friend group.
