https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776159.The_Lady_in_the_Lake
Raindrops on strippers and crisp apple gunshotsBright copper floozies and warm woolly whatnots, Muscular gentlemen tied up with stringsThese are a few of my favorite thingsGirls in bikinis with breathtaking lipstickSlayed belles on gurneys as fast talking dicks quipSilverwhite cocaine and fabulous blingThese are a few of my favourite thingFinding those corpses with wide ugly gashesAnd no nose at all and not many eyelashesAnd Chandler and Marlowe and slightly left wingsThese are a few of my favourite things
I have decided to take a break from my usual obsession with history to take a deep plunge into several of the classic noir detective novels by Raymond Chandler, James M. Cain and Dashiell Hammett. A few of these will be re-reads.  Why noir? America is even divided between two fanatical ideologies so I guess the noir genre suits my cynical nature as an outcast, literary hermit who despises the hypocritical dishonesty and corruption of both political franchises as well as the obedient myrmidons i
Another key ingredient to the noir formula is the hard bitten, cynical private eye working against both the criminal element as well as the corrupt cops.
No one suits this noir streak better than Raymond Chandler's sarcastic, hard drinking, private dick Philip Marlowe.
In "The Lady in the Lake," Marlowe is hired by a perfume company exec to find his estranged wife who had disappeared from their summer home, sending him a very nice dear John letter saying that she was running off to Mexico with another man.
Great pacing, wonderful progression of events and clues, just enough snappy dialogue, delicious "detective-as-philosopher" quotations, genuine tension and suspense, a sprinkling of red herrings...
Awesome!I brushed my hair and looked at the grey in it.
And very slowly I grew quiet with it.Full size image here, cover by Tom AdamsI particularly enjoy how the clues fit together slowly, progressively throughout.
quintessential Chandler ...I brushed my hair and looked at the grey in it.
The face under the hair had a sick look.
The face under the hair had a sick look.
Chandler's similes are in fine form, as is Marlowe's banter.Since Raymond Chandler is my favorite of the noir pioneers, I feel guilty for saying this but this thing is so convoluted I stopped caring about the plot about a third of the way in and just stuck around for the Scotch-smooth prose.
Marlowe couldn't be blamed for not cracking the case early on since it read like Raymond Chandler was making it up as he went in between weekend-long benders.To sum it up, the prose is up to par but the plot is a meandering mess.
He's going to have to deal with corrupt policemen and determined gangsters.
But our private has tough skin and is determined to unravel the mystery surrounding the disappearance of Crystal, the wife of Derace Kingsley.The survey will be conducted partly in Bay City the villain on the Pacific coast but also in the forest of San Bernardino where Kingsley owns a cottage located by a lake.
"The Lady of the Lake" is Chandler's fourth novel, and if there are many redundancies in the plot, they do not tire the reader.
Notable for its removal of Marlowe from his usual Los Angeles environs for much of the book, the novel's complicated plot initially deals with the case of a missing woman in a small mountain town some 80 miles (130 km) from the city.
The book was written shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor and makes several references to America's recent involvement in World War II.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پانزدهم ماه نوامبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: بانوی دریاچه؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: کاوه میرعباسی؛ تهران، طرح نو، 1378؛ در 280 ص؛ شابک: 9645625653؛ چاپ دوم 1389؛ شابک: 9789645625656؛ موضوع: داستانهای پلیسی از نویسندگان امریکایی - ماجراهای فلیپ مارلو کتاب 4 - قرن 20 ما.
شربیانی
The recommendation for the book is just as usual: if you have even a passing interest in noir mysteries, this is THE series to read, but beware that the number of writers of the genre who approached this level of quality can be counted with fingers on one hand with some left to spare - you might spoil the genre for yourself if you start with Philip Marlowe cases.
Ray went through his novel, reflected for some hours, and wired back,  "I don't know."  Ray and Hawks and readers agree the plot doesnt have to make sense  if it's fun.
Lauded by Brit toffs Edith Sitwell and Cyril Connolly, among others, Chandler knew that overseas he was considered an Author while in the US he was merely a "mystery writer." His language and sentence structure, uniquely his own, have an hypnotic effect on the nervous system: there's a rhythmic tension.
It's not the plot, he argued, "it's the richness of texture." And: "The most durable thing in writing is style.
Arthur: The Lady of the Lake, her arm clad in the purest shimmering silmite held aloft Excalibur from the bosom of the water, signifying by divine providence that I, Arthur, was to carry Excalibur.
Supreme executive power derives from a mandate from the masses, not from some farcical aquatic ceremony!The fact that I can't resist a Monty Python quote aside, the titular lady in the lake in Chandler's book is distinctly non-Arthurian.
This has my favourite ending of any of the Marlow books so far.
بانوی دریاچه چهارمین رمان بلند چندلر است و از بهترین آثار او به شمار می آید .
در 1943 ، با بسط دادن هسته اصلی داستان ، رمان بانوی دریاچه را به شکل کنونی اش پدید آورد.
کارگردان و بازیگر نقش اصلی فیلم رابرت مونتگمری بود.ماجرای این داستان پلیسی مربوط به خانواده((دریس کینگسلی)) است .شخصی به نام ((مارلو)) از طرف ستوان((مک گی)) و به سفارش آقای((دریس کینگسلی)) مامور می‌شود تا همسر((دریس)) را که به تازگی ناپدید شده بیابد .((دریس)) تلگرافی را به((مارلو)) نشان می‌دهد که همسرش هنگام رفتن برای او فرستاده بود .متن تلگراف چنین بود از راه مرز می‌روم مکزیک طلاق بگیرم .با((گریس)) ازدواج خواهم کرد .خوشبخت باشی .کریستال)) بدین ترتیب مارلو تحقیقاتش را آغاز می‌کند و .....
Chandler really gives Marlowe a beating in this one, it’s a wonder he can stand at the end after all the blackjack shots and slugs to the face.
I’m sure he wonders at times if it’s really worth it.Of the four Marlowe novels I've read so far, I felt The Lady In The Lake had one of the more coherent, easy-to-follow plots – that is up until the end anyway.
While developments seem to uncover rapidly (honestly, Marlowe solves this thing in two days tops) and everything eventually ties together in the end, it felt pretty far fetched when summing it up.
The fact that this was combined with the middle class murder standards meant I really didn't care about the solution.As everyone knows Chandler's pretty good at describing; things, places, people, incidents, they're all wonderfully described but beyond that I really don't have anything positive to say about the book.Weak.
No wonder Hollywood only made one fatal attempt to adapt this one.
Although kudos to Robert Montgomery for trying something completely different with his direction.
I should probably slow down on calling Raymond Chander a god. Novelists who write so damn well (and there are few of those) must sometimes tire of both hyperbole and the undersell too. Look. This isn't my favorite Chandler or my favorite Marlowe, and the Great and Glorious Chandler doesn't deviate too far from his script (Rich, difficult clients >> wise-cracking PI >> dame >> cops >> drinks >> California >> dead bodies >> Marlowe close to the line >&g
I should probably slow down on calling Raymond Chander a god.
This isn't my favorite Chandler or my favorite Marlowe, and the Great and Glorious Chandler doesn't deviate too far from his script (Rich, difficult clients >> wise-cracking PI >> dame >> cops >> drinks >> California >> dead bodies >> Marlowe close to the line >> Marlowe over the line >> Marlowe wraps it all up and still fills like crap about it).
But Chander owns it.
His counterrotated prose is like a literary quadruple lutz that he lands again and again and again.

It is there he discovers another disappearance of the neighbour’s wife and corpse lying at the bottom of the lake of one of the missing women.Initially I thought it was slow to begin with as Marlowe tends to describe, in fine detail everything in his path, but I soon discovered it’s how Marlowe works.
He tends to analyze everything from the landscape, to the body language of his suspects and once I knew how he works, I was able to go with the flow and was really enjoying it.Raymond Chandler has bought this honest to goodness, no bullshit PI to life through his writing, and I can truly see why he’s so well liked.
Uma fase que começou na adolescência, com a descoberta de Sherlock Holmes e terminou no início da idade adulta mais ou menos por volta dos meus 19 anos.Nessa altura, comecei a achar que os policiais eram sempre "mais do mesmo", entretenimento olvidável, livros que pouco me acrescentavam enquanto pessoa e abandonei-os por completo para fazer leituras que eu julgava mais "enriquecedoras".
Como disse atrás os enredos destes livros são normalmente muito interessantes, mas são entretenimento puro que se esquece com muita facilidade.
Um bom enredo, intrincado com vários twists, mas...mais do mesmo para quem já leu muitos policiais deste género.
Ο συγγραφικό τόνος παραπέμπει σε αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα μυστηρίου, ενώ αρχίζει να παίζεται ένα παιχνίδι χαρακτήρων στο οποίο η πραγματική ταυτότητα των ηρώων, εμμέσως, αμφισβητείται.Στο δεύτερο μισό, ο Chandler επιστρέφει στα γνώριμα hard-boiled μονοπάτια για να μπορέσει να συμπληρώσει το τελευταίο κομμάτι στο παζλ του αστυνομικού γρίφου, και να δώσει μια λύση, η οποία μέχρι το τέλος κρύβει, συνέχεια, ανατροπές.Οι διάλογοι είναι έξυπνοι, οι περιγραφές της λίμνης και των τοπίων θυμίζουν 'γοτθικό' θρίλερ, ενώ όλοι οι ήρωες σε αυτό το βιβλίο παρουσιάζουν σκοτεινές πλευρές και είναι ένοχοι για κάποια πράξη τους.
Private Investigator Philip Marlowe was hired by Derace Kingsley to find his missing wife, Crystal – she had been missing for a month after contacting him from their cabin via telegram to say she was going to divorce him and marry Chris Lavery.
As the hours passed, and then the days, instead of finding answers he continued to find more questions…This is my first Raymond Chandler/Philip Marlowe book and I read it on recommendation of a couple of friends.
I have no hesitation in recommending this book to all mystery/crime lovers.
If you love the time period of the 40s and gritty film noir, there is no better storyteller than Raymond Chandler.
He tracks her to a small community up in the mountains but the body in the lake is ID'd as the wife of another man, a man who has implied that he has slept with the missing wife.That mystery sends Marlowe back hunting for the connections between the missing wife, the lady in the lake and a doctor's wife who died more than a year ago.
More Marlowe with double-crossing and the usual twists and turns that I like/love in this series.Audio narration by Elliot Gould. OVERALL GRADE: B to B plus.
Quando pensamos em romance policial noir, as imagens que surgem na nossa mente apresentam um tom esc
Raymond Chandler, for those paying attention, penned a social portrait of the relationship that the public had with the police department at the time.
Every instance on the page of this character has the reader cringing from Degarmo's behaviour, choice of words and inappropriate decisions.Webber, Chief over in Santa Monica - or Bay City as Chandler always referred to it, is the out of touch, administrative, trusting General who probably doesn't know half the business his men are getting into and is usually late to the scene on every occasion.
این رو باید اذعان کنم که داستان دیگه خیلی قتل تو قتل شد اما به هر حال این جنایت بار بودن زدگی ای در من ایجاد نمی کرد.
من یکی که به چندلر علاقه مند شدمحاشیه: از مضحک ترین بخش های داستان قصه ی پیدا شدن اون دستمال گردن خال خالی کینگسلی در صحنه ی جنایت و بحث مارلو با دگارمون سر اون بود؛ بعد کلی بحث و حرف آخرش مارلو بهش گفت این گردن من بوده.
"Chandler escreve como se a dor doesse e a vida importasse."A "Dama do Lago" conta-nos mais uma história com Philip Marlowe.
Apesar de estes não estarem presentes neste caso de Marlowe, tive o prazer de conhecer um médico patife, cujos clientes mais assíduos têm uma afeição especial por drogas e um polícia corrupto, que privilegia o uso da violência e das palavras feias.Como todos os livros do Philip Marlowe, a "Dama do Lago" é narrada na primeira pessoa, tornando quase natural a empatia com o detetive privado.
The Lady in the Lake is quite intriguing, and although isn't my favorite of the Marlowe novels so far, Chandler is still very much on top of his game here.
And while there is a basic formula shared by all of these novels -- Marlowe being hired, Marlowe bumping into peripheral cases that somehow tie to his own investigations and get him into some sort of trouble -- each book is different in its own way.
For some reason, that's just not the case with these books -- between Chandler's writing, his focus not just on Marlowe but the other characters as well, and the way he describes Marlowe's Los Angeles, I can't get enough.
I'm not sure it's Chandler's fault or if I can recognize hints when I see them, but everything clicked for me relatively early on, because (seriously,don't read this if you want to enjoy the book or something) (view spoiler)[the detective investigates the disappearance of a blonde, pretty woman, and he comes across a man who had another blonde, pretty woman for a wife, and who goes out of the way to describe how similar the two are (hide spoiler)].
I liked the way it built up into a coherent narrative at the end, with a nicely evil villain, and I was a bit amused at the tendency to (view spoiler)[kill everybody who committed murder (hide spoiler)] by the end, which I've encountered in other places as well.
A runaway wife, a telegram to the wealthy husband Kingsley, saying Am crossing to get Mexican divorce stop Will marry Chris stop Good luck and goodbye crystal.
Maybe.This is a somewhat convoluted story, perhaps without some of the polish the I have come to expect from Chandler.
It didn't exactly fall flat, but for me the convoluted plot and lack of descriptors we come to expect left this at 3 stars not 4 or 5.Still, no regrets, it was short book, a quick easy read, and still very entertaining.P371.I smelled of gin.
Wonderful. This was my third time reading The Lady in the Lake. I find it engaging and effective, more than some of the other Philip Marlowe books even. The mystery seems convoluted then simple and it gets me every time (though it's fairly easy to guess, I suppose). I never try to guess the solution, and memory is funny - the way I'll remember so much of the story but not the end.
The Lady in the Lake by Raymond Chandler.I picked up this CD at my public library not realizing it was a drama/play with a cast of characters/actors. It was fabulous...love every moment. This was Philip Marlowe at his best and Raymond Chandler as the author sat his zenith. I can't recommend it highly enough and try to get the play/drama. It's excellent, not a boring moment in the play.
Good, solid Chandler. Maturity of craft, but not quite as taut as High Window, and a large piece of the puzzle was obvious almost from the outset. Still, excellent book. The characterization is particularly rich and well done.
