https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618205.Celtic_Art
I had to draw Celtic knots for a commission. After trying to wing it for days, i gave up and bought this book.It saved my fat.
I've been picking up a lot of Celtic art books from the library recently (I'm in Scotland, so they're plentiful). This is by far my favourite. Fantastic sourcing, great essays about each section, and absolutely stunning and varied art examples. Definitely one I'll be buying to keep on my reference shelf.
What a great gem of a book!
I have skimmed through this book and attempted some of the techniques in it. This is a hard art form... but I'm working on it.
A good reference book for Celtic knot work.
Wow!Amazing work. My mind is going over all the info compressed in to those fabulous panels. I can't wait to put what I've learned to use.
This is not a how-to but a reference. A nice book if you're interested in Celtic motifs and art.
Images too smallOne star for this travesty. It's not hard to make an image to a discernible scale in Kindle.But someone just hasn't bothered to format it properly and yet you're still charged a premium price! The main focus of the book is its images but they're too small to make sense of so you can't defer to what the author is referring to. This is supremely annoying. Pull your socks up, Amazon and start forcing publishers to ensure books are Kindle ready!!!!!
A beautiful book. I will enjoy having it as a reference for classic designs, but it's not as helpful as I thought it would be for creating my own knots. The first few pages show how the reader how to create different patterns, and it's fascinating. I'd say there is more focus on different design elements as opposed to the creation of the knots themselves.
This is the inner sanctum on the subject of Celtic art. It gave me some serious respect for the thing....
The older style is going to be nearly unreadable by someone today, but it's still an awesome overview. Bain clearly paved the way for people like Co Spinhoven and Aidan Meehan.
love this book - Charlotte H. brought me copies of pages from the one in Iona Scotland. I treasure it.
I love this book! It has helped me create some unique cross stitch designs. Plus it gives a little history. A must for crafters
Excellent reference for how to create Celtic knots and other designs. I used it for years.
George Bain is the best resource if you'd like to learn how to drawn or simply study traditional celtic knotwork.
Great for art teachers
A reproduction of the work originally published in Glasgow in 1951. http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/05/wor...Happy St. Patrick's Day!
For actual construction methods, Iain Bain's more engineered approach works better for basic knotwork and panels, but the keywork and spirals are without comparison.
