https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021501-small-great-things
“The State just sees a dead baby. They’re targeting you because they think you failed as a nurse.”“You’re wrong.” I shake my head in the darkness, and I say the words I’ve swallowed down my whole life. “They’re targeting me because I’m Black."  3 1/2 stars. I have some issues with the ending, but otherwise Small Great Things is such a pageturner. It's the kind of book you can easily stay up until 2am to finish (even without the teething infant to help you along). True, it's Racism 101 for white
But if this book is anything to go by, she's vicious.Small Great Things is a horrible, emotive book that puts both racism and white privilege on trial in a nail-biting courtroom drama.It all starts when Ruth Jefferson, a black Labor & Delivery nurse, is told to keep away from the newborn son of white supremacists.
His life is revealed to us, as is his nauseating journey to white supremacism.I think this book works so well because it isn't so much about portraying racism through a black woman's eyes as it is about a white "definitely not racist" lawyer facing up to her white privilege, acknowledging its existence, and using it for good.
I don't know what the demographic is for Ms. Picoult's novels but being a book person for a long time and having been to a couple of her book readings, I think I can make a pretty accurate guess at the demographic that buys her novels.
I wanted Ruth to be able to have her story without the function being to teach white people something.
I believe that if this was written by a person of color, this would have been Ruth's story.I gave Small Great Things 4 stars...it's more like 3.5 but I do enjoy a Jodi Picoult novel every once in awhile.
I learned so much and from the moment I started reading it, it has been on my mind.Ruth Jefferson is the widowed mother of one teenage son, Edison.
The nurse (Ruth), the public defender (Kennedy), and the white supremacist father (Turk).What Ruth does and doesn't do ends up with her being brought up on serious charges.
Will Kennedy be able to face the things she learns not only about others but also about herself?As the trial also plays out in the media it starts to affect Ruth's son.
I hated it so much idk how I even finshed it.
I don't think I've ever rolled my eyes this much while reading a book.I am a black female medical student.
Ruth is guilty, idgaf what the patient's family said, you save that baby.
But the point is, that would never happen.Jodi Picoult is not black.
Yet she writes in the point of view of a black woman and her life struggles.
Also, Ruth was the only black nurse in the department?
Black people get sunburns, we know how it works like wtf.I can't even begin to talk about this damn trial.
After all of the hate and uncomfortable feelings throughout this story, how could things ever possibly be wrapped up in such a way?
I believe it’s the way Jodi Picoult tells the story that makes it so powerful.
It’s enraging at times, thought-provoking, completely riveting and even sort of humbling.There are so many things that come to the surface with this one—racism, white privilege, the sad reality that sometimes hate has the power to color someone’s entire world and the feeling of not belonging .
It’s a short story from eight-year-old Ruth's perspective.Of the three characters, Kennedy was definitely the one I found myself connecting with the most.
"Let me say again how sorry I am for your loss," Matthews says, like everyone else does these days.
"Ah," Matthews says.
That means if you file a civil suit simultaneously, Ms. Jefferson would ask for a stay of all discovery, so she couldn't incriminate herself during the pending criminal prosecution.
And the fact that you filed a civil suit against her can be used against you in a cross examination during the criminal lawsuit."  "I don't understand." The question is.....will you understand what hit *YOU*, once you've finished this brilliant novel?
This is a powerful book, bold in some ways , as we have a white author bringing to us a story depicting what racism looks like and trying to tell those of us who are not black, what it feels like .
Lately though there has been some news attention to white supremacy as it's ugly face comes out, but the ugly face of racism is front and center in the every day life of Ruth Jefferson in this novel not just with the white supremacists portrayed here .
Lots of friends love Picoult, so I feel sort of like an alien, one standing at alert, with her handy but annoying Complaint Board right here front and center.The story line drew me right in.
All three—Ruth the nurse, Turk the supremacist, and Kennedy the lawyer have their own chapters, all told in first person.The big Number One on my Complaint Board is that this is a message book, and I don’t really like message books.
This means what happened to Ruth affected me.
It’s not because something seems completely wrong to us that we shouldn’t dig deeper on the subject; consider someone else’s opinion on the matter, which is why I’m so happy with the fact that this book is narrated by Ruth, Kennedy AND Turk.A truly impressive story with great attention to detail and incredibly intense scenes at court.Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin’
Feeling that the time was right to discuss race, Picoult used this court case as a basis for Small Great Things, her current best selling novel.
Adding to the tapestry of the novel are supporting characters who bring their own views on race to the table, creating a rich story.
Even through Jodi Picoult has been writing best sellers for over twenty years, she did not have to write about race, just as Kennedy did not have to take on Ruth's case; this takes courage.
…every baby is born beautiful.It’s what we project on them that makes them ugly. A drop of water is a tiny thing. Only a twentieth of a gram. It takes almost six hundred drops to make an ounce, and a hundred twenty eight ounces to make a gallon. That gallon is eight pounds of weight. You can feel the weight of water when you stand on the beach and try to hold your place as waves push you back. It takes only six inches of moving water to take control of your car. If you could stand underneath Ni
Jodi Picoult- from Time, Inc. One of the inspirations for Jodi Picoult’s Small Great Things was a quote from Martin Luther King: “If I cannot do great things, I can do small things in a great way.” She explains in the Author’s note that follows the novel that she knew that characters in the book would “have moments …where they do a small thing that has great and lasting repercussions for others.” While there are plenty of positive small things that take place in the novel, the primary significance is the accumulated impact of the negatives, and trying to gain the vision needed to perceive, and hopefully, address them.Ruth Jefferson has been a Labor and Delivery nurse in a Connecticut hospital for twenty years.
She gets along well with all of her colleagues and all of her patients love her - that is until she assists Turk Bauer and his wife Brit with their new baby Davis.
Turk and Brit are White Supremacists and they don't want Ruth touching their baby because she is black.
I work in the legal field and I understand her mind and get why she did the things she did and instructed Ruth the way she did.
Like I said in my first post, I grew up in an affluent town bordering New Haven that was mostly white, and predominantly Jewish (I am not Jewish) from the ages of 7-24 years old.
As much as it was not uplifting, there were moments of beauty here that made my heart swell.This is a story about racism told from 3 perspectives: A black nurse not sure what choice to make; A skinhead who is sure of his choices; a defense attorney who is questioning her own choices.A tough theme that still exists, sadly, in our culture.
You give us insights that are frighteningly real and remind us that history can still burn in our hearts and cause us to behave in ways that are more emotional than factual.
Once again, a great read from one of my favorite authors. The story felt very authentic to me and the topic, I'm so glad she covered. Tons of emotion. I listened to this on audible and enjoyed all the narrators. I've read every one of Jodi's books and this is definitely one of my favorites. Very important authors note at the end...
The wheel spins around and around and finally lands on “Amish.” The woman frowns a bit and realizes that she had already covered that topic.
She recalls that the last time she wrote a book, she researched elephants so when she spins the wheel, she hopes to get another topic.
When Ruth goes to check on her patient, the father, Turk, he says that he doesn’t’ want an African American woman touching his child.
Jodi spent her time researching the lingo involved in being a maternity nurse and she saturates the reader with technical terms that will confound anyone except for those in the medical field.
Jodi Picoult is by far my most favourite author!
The subject matter at times was hard to read as the story being told was very heartbreaking and disturbing but it was executed perfectly.
This author always makes me think and I have always learned something new from reading one of her novels.
All three were very strong characters which all brought life to this story.I love how Jodi Picoult finishes the storyline nothing is left out and as you read that last page you are feeling like wow, that was really satisfying & extremely good.
Jodi Picoult is a daring, talented author who knows how to write new stuff about age old controversies.
She can write a male or female character with equal ease.
In this book, she writes about Ruth, her grown son, and Jodi Picoult writes from the point of view of the racist father (I thought the 'clan' KKK would be prominent in this book), and her white lawyer who took up her case, Kennedy.Jodi Picoult obviously believes that God is in the details.
This is particularly true when Ruth is interacting with her son.
Also Turk is an overdeveloped character.
This was a 'beast' of a novel for me... not in the sense that it was long, but in that it was a difficult topic. I, like Picoult, think of myself as not discriminating in how I treat people, however, the issues this novel raises had me questioning that. A very thought provoking novel that I think people need to read. As uncomfortable as it may be, these issues need to be raised and reflected on. We can all do "small great things."
5 Real, raw, and brilliant stars 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟This book is one of my top Reads of 2017 ......I read this book last January and it still sticks with me today, really a truly powerful story!Jodi Picoult definitely writes books that make you think....Not even sure where to start with this....
it’s not always easy to give a voice to a character most people will hate, but I really think this was done very well....
her intentions were so good, but I don’t always think she saw the world as it truly can be.....
all the psychology that goes into selecting the jury, especially in a case like this....
Picoult typically picks a social issue, creates a crisis situation and tells the story from the perspective of a few characters caught up in the crisis.
Ruth is an African American nurse who is instructed by her supervisor not to touch the new born baby of a white supremacist couple at the parents' request.
The story is told from the perspectives of Ruth, her white lawyer Kennedy and the baby's father.
How can a white author speak of the experience of racism on behalf of her African American character.
Race, discrimination, hate crimes against people of a certain faith, a certain lifestyle have been in the headlines, on the news on a regular basis.
We like to think that these things are rare, that they don’t affect others on a continuing basis.
I have read several of Jodi Picoult’s novels, and I’ve noticed in the ones I read that they all have tackled different areas where we need to be enlightened, and I have felt they’ve been a little better each time than the previous one.
OUTSTANDING!!!! This book is one of those books that is educating, jarring and inspirational. Kudos to Jodi for taking on the topic of racism and opening my eyes to things I wasn't aware of. I most definitely was schooled."If I cannot do great things, I can do small things in a great way."
I get what Jodi Picoult is trying to do here but this story is rife with offensive stereotypes - angry Black sister, long-serving servant mama, flamboyant pastor, sassy transgender prostitute.
Of course she's being wrongly persecuted!The problem is that what happened would be just as wrong if Ruth were a crackhead with a criminal record.
No matter whom it's happening to.But in trying to tell a story that would be relatable to her "mainstream" audience, she does the cause a huge disservice.
Huge.I read that she wrote this because it's a story that needed to be told.
The Hook - Jodi Picoult has been one of my adopted authors at our local library for many years. The adopted author program works like this:Choose your favorite author(s) and agree to purchase a hardcover copy of all new titles published (usually only one per year).· The library will purchase each title at our discounted price (about 45% off, approx. $15-$16 per book).· When the book arrives at the library, we will process it and notify you that it’s ready for you to pick up and read!· A bookplat
I just don’t know if I have the right to like Small Great Things without any real experiences to go by or conversation with anyone other than my own race about perspective on this book.After sitting on this for over a month I have finally started reading the reviews written by my GR friends.
I believe that if this was written by a person of color, this would have been Ruth's story.”I messaged Tracey and we talked a bit more about the book and how in the end we both felt conflicted.
The newborn baby of a white supremacist couple dies during the care of a respected black nurse who'd been told by her boss that she was not to "touch" the baby.
Picoult weaves in just enough backstory to explain the motivations behind the main characters' thoughts and actions.
All the voices were distinct - the black woman, the white woman and the male white supremacist.
I experienced the same thing writing my novel Eyes Like Mine which features a young, Jewish man.
As with many Picoult novels, there is always a dramatic twist.
The hard part for me is that it is written by a white woman, telling a story of a black woman's life.
The author adds notes to the end of this book, and in this instance considering this is an audio book, is read by the author herself.
She is that passionate about it that I guess she feels she is able to voice herself as Ruth.
I am no way experienced in the life of minority groups in any way, I think this really is a hard one for me to review.
Perhaps I thought Ruth's story wrapped up a little tidily too?
3.5This was surely a timely and serious book. I did however, find it to drone on and on, so I found myself skimming through much of the book.
Justice will not be served until those who are unaffected are as outraged as those who are. —BENJAMIN FRANKLIN  Ruth, a black nurse, is forbidden from caring for a white supremacist's newborn. An unfortunate set of circumstances leads to Ruth being left alone with the baby for a short period of time. The baby goes into cardiac distress under her watch and she hesitates. The infant's file strictly states that African American personnel aren't allowed to care for the baby. Should she follow orde
I was, and will always be, different from them.” She feels frustrated and distrustful, as her whole world is turned upside down.• Turk, a white supremacist, is overwhelmed with grief over the loss of his baby.
It shows he has the capability for love and compassion, so maybe he's not a complete lost cause.• Kennedy is the white public defender that takes on Ruth's case.
Small Great Things is a thought-provoking book that is especially effective as an introduction to issues of racial bias and white privilege.
I appreciate Picoult using her influence to educate people on something they may not be aware of and her book will provoke interesting discussion.
Small Great Things is a story about Ruth, an African-American L&D nurse at a Connecticut hospital, who is given orders not to treat an infant because the infant’s parents, Turk and Brittany, are white supremacists and don’t want Ruth interacting with or administering care for their baby.
It’s awful to know people like Turk exist, shamelessly or, now in hiding behind the comfort of their computers.
She grew on me a bit as the story progressed, but it took a long time to get there.
I had a hard time putting the book down, as I was dying to know what would happen in the trial.
In Small Great Things the author, Jodi Picoult, writes about race, prejudice, compassion and justice. This story made me so angry and if it can make me feel emotion like that then I loved it!Some of the content is difficult to read but in order to grasp the message the author is sending you must read it all.Captivating, insightful and very well-written.It is easy to see why Jodi Picoult is one of my favourite authors!ReRead Nov 2017
