https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10813.One_Man_s_Meat
If you desire twists and turns and cheap thrills in your reading, then this is not the ride for you.These are Mr. White's ruminations from a pre-American involvement of WWII, up until December of 1942.
At a time when so many other writers were misogynistic or racist or old-fashioned or more, he manages to be fresh and modern and non-judgemental, in the current day.And his observations?
But instead, I'll leave you with this one lovely, thought-provoking passage:Freedom is a household word now, but it's only once in a while that you see a man who is actively, almost belligerently free.
He writes and he thinks and he tells us his thoughts – on politics, diplomacy, isolationism, religion, education, on dogs, chickens and sheep and what it takes to be a farmer.
After reading this you begin to truly, truly understand the life of a farmer….and him.
I am not giving it a full five stars because some portions didn't speak to me; I think they went over my head.
He gives you time to think.
They give us a peek into the farmer/author's life from July 1938 to January 1943 and of the mood in New England with first the threat and then the outbreak of war.
While reading this collection of his essays written between 1938 and 1943, I was continually struck by how White's personal recountings of his daily life and thoughts could be so applicable to me, a 59-year-old woman living her life 70 plus years later.
White writes with thoughtfulness, insight, wit, and humor about roofing his barn while war looms, bringing a cow home after his personal probationary period practicing on sheep, and the bittersweet experience of taking his son to fish at the lake where he had fished with his own father.
White interjects world politics, children’s literature and farming in to this eclectic series of essays that have an eternal quality to them.
In no situation did he seem to not be in control of the writing.White’s original/intended audience likely didn’t read his work as critically, or perhaps as writers would.
Occasionally, I checked a World War II timeline – to refresh my memory as to the order of events (I remember being surprised at how early he was writing about the Holocaust in an American publication)—but it was strictly for my own edification—such clarity was not necessary for the content of any specific essay.
And yet, he rarely loses the context of the larger world around him—this is the approach most successful writers of juvenile literature write.
And given the times we live in, its subject matter is particularly timely for American readers -- the period of history leading up to the attack on Pearl Harbor and the early years of the war effort -- all told from the point of view of a thoughtful writer on a small farm in Maine.White had moved there with his wife and young son from New York, where he'd been writing for The New Yorker, and took up country living, turning his attention to the annual round of the seasons, farm work, the nearby seaside, and the company of independent rural people.
Written in the late 30's and early 40s during the approach of and beginning of World War II, White's essays comment on the world around him and chronicle his life on a farm in Maine as he gradually comes to grips with country living.
In many instances they seem very contemporary in spite of having been written more than fifty years ago.
A long time contributor to The New Yorker, one recognizes the "New Yorker style" in White's writing.
One of our group found a resemblance to Joseph Mitchell's Up in the Old Hotel which we had read several years ago.
Brevet till Thoreau förde mig till denna charmiga och djupt humanistiska krönikesamling från 1938-43. Herr och Fru White, båda journalister, lämnade New York för en "seaside farm" i Maine, ungefär som Vonneguts exodus till Cape Cod. Omslagsfoto av Jill Krementz. Undrar om de fyra umgicks?
I just love to read EB White's essays and this collection was especially enjoyable. These essays were written between 1938 and 1943 and gave an idea of what life was like in rural America during the early years of the war. My dad grew up on a small farm in upstate NY and so many of these essays reminded me of stories my dad would tell about this time. This is a book I will dip into and read over and over again.
A very unique collection of essays. Some were just so so, but there were some moments of literary brilliance. The subjects range from thoughts on world affairs to raising chickens and the design of automobiles.
Among these was E.B.White's "One Man's Meat." A celebration of life.
I recommend it to anyone, but especially to people who love good writing and need healing.
I am very impatient with anyone who would have us go back to a better time in America.
White was an intelligent observer of some very awful events in the 30s and early 40s, but gave us a clear, untinted lens through which to view world events in any time.
Read "One Man's Meat" and then go back to reading the news and today's observers.
Simply put this is one of my favorite books of all time.
I was sad to get to the end.
He comes alive in these pages.
I sometimes forgot I was reading essays -- they are so rich that they go beyond in my head and now feel like anecdotes told to me by a really good friend.
I have no idea what to read now.
It is that good and I need to get a hardcopy for myself so that I can have it for decades to come and pull it down to read when I need to hear from an old friend.
I am a huge fan of E.B. White's essays. This collection, all written in the late 1930's and very early 40's, is often a time capsule from small-town American life in the early years of WWII - certainly not simpler or easier times, but maybe kinder and less complicated. White writes beautifully; he has a wonderful eye (and ear) for details. Truly, he's a pleasure to read. and savor. I can't remember the last time I spent four months on a book (although I probably read the last half of it in a week!)
A wonderful book. I think of E.B. White every time I straighten a rug. He found himself wandering around his apartment doing just that when he decided to head out to the country to try a different type of life. Good idea for him, but I still straighten rugs all the time.
It is a collection of essays which I wrote from a salt water farm in Maine while engaged in trivial, peaceful pursuits, knowing all the time that the world hadn't arranged any true peace or granted anyone the privilege of indulging himself for long in trivialities.White was running a functioning farm while continuing in his editorial role for the New Yorker and writing for Harpers; he lived in Maine with his wife, Katherine Angall White (also a New Yorker editor working long-distance - one of the essays describes - often mockingly - the content of the influx of children's books for her to review at year's end) and their young son Joel.The early essays have something of a fey tone to them - a look-at-this-funny-man tone, playacting to the reader.
After Essays of E.B. White, I couldn't stop.
The book collects a column that White wrote for Harper's in the early 1940s.
Many of the articles are about life on his farm, and I enjoyed those the most.
I like the subtle humor that comes across in these pieces.
I like the voice he's created, and I admire the compactness of thought that makes his writing crisp.If nothing else, reading these essays has put in my mind Rule 17 in The Elements of Style: omit needless words.
It also made me envious of the farm life White had up in Maine.
In the first part of the book there is a sentence or so in each essay that is jarringly dated and callous--such as when he complains about the cost of grain because Germany is invading France. On the other hand, these passages reveal the isolationism and blase attitude so prevalent in the U.S. at the time. Other than the historical context issues, most of these essays were a delight.
Another excellent book by E.B. White. The book deals, for the most part, with White's daily adventures on his farm in Maine. I love listening to the voice of White as he describes the birth of lambs, coon hunting, the misadventures of his dogs, etc. One truly feels that White has invited you into his home and his life. A collection of essays, White's writing is warm and homespun, while demanding some rumination by the reader, at least this reader, at the conclusion of each essay.
It's essays by EB White, who left NYC to go live on a farm up in Maine.
He writes about the world, about farm life, about what his neighbors do, about his observations and opinions.
This book has one of my favorite pieces of writing ever, something White wrote about his dog.
He wants to be present in a managerial capacity at every event, no matter how trifling or routine; it makes no difference whether I am dipping a sheep or simply taking a bath myself.
One of the few books I tried to read as slowly as possible (only a chapter or two at a time a few times a week) because I wanted it to last as long as it possibly could.
This is probably the best essay collection I've ever read and should be an absolute must-read for any aspiring author.
Virtually every page has subtly brilliant turns of phrase I only wish I could emulate.
Even if you have no desire to write, the glimpse into everyday life in the 30's and 40's is fascinating.
My only wish is that the collection had been twice as long … or more!
This collections contains "Sabbath Morn," my favorite of the many White pieces that I have read. I have never seen religious skepticism so gently, humanely, wittily, and artfully expressed. I might even say that it is nostalgic toward a certain style of religious service as it was commonly broadcast over the radio from many churches on Sunday mornings of times mostly gone-by. As is typical of White, it is nostalgic about a lot of things.
E.B. White romanticized raising chickens in a way that I know is not true. Chickens are dumb, smelly animals who are loud and eat each other. But damn if I don't want to move to a farm and raise some chickens. Lovely lovely lovely.
An amazing anthology of essays that show how simple, yet hard, life on a 1940’s New England farm could be. Peppered with opinion regarding the advent of WWII and insights into American life, EB White turns descriptions of life on the farm into a collection of folksy of Americana.
From the old-timey chapters on the cost to raise his chickens to his government-supplied limestone allotment (from President Roosevelt!), this book takes the reader back to the simple country life of WWII-era America as seen by a man who, by his own admission, has no business living that life.
"by asking a man how to build a boat and he told me." But soon, he falls into a diatribe about a book he read called "The Wave of the Future" by Anne Lindbergh.
In the book, Mrs. Lindbergh argues a point (which the benefit of history deems ridiculous) that the fascist forces are manipulating a new wave of engaging society.
It is an odd thing though: the very patriotism on which we now rely is the thing that must eventually be in part relinquished if the world is ever to find a lasting peace and an end to these butcheries...Yet all the time I know that this very loyalty, this feeling of being part of a special place, this respect for one's native scene--I know that such emotions have had a big part in the world's wars.
We must find such people for the next society.And some gorgeous descriptions of the natural world, this from an evening spent training a puppy to tree a raccoon: After midnight we moved into easier country about ten miles away.
Here the going was better--old fields and orchards, where the little wild apples lay in thick clusters under the trees.
Being in Maine now and, especially this summer, being out in the country, brought me back to it and gave me a fresh appreciate I didn't have before.One Man's Meat is a collection of monthly ruminations, stories, and anecdotes about White's life, politics, and culture after he left NYC for Coastal Maine in 1938 through the early stages of WWII in 1942.
I was drawn equally to White's descriptions of everyday pastoral life in Maine as a writer-farmer, but also to his views of American culture and politics on a local and natural level.
Listened to Charlotte's web on CD read by him and started reading all the essays he wrote for the New Yorker, etc.
This book is a compilation of his contributions after he moved to a saltwater farm on the coast of Maine.
I think of those five years in Maine as the time when this happened to me.
Confronted by new challenges, surrounded by new acquaintances--including the characters in the barnyard, who were later to reappear in Charlotte's Web--I was suddenly seeing, feeling, and listening as a child sees, feels, and listens.
It was one of those rare interludes that can never be repeated, a time of enchantment.
Maine appears to inspire a love in its writings and writers all out of proportion to its size and apparent charms.For the content; a series of New Yorker columns, every one of which a charmer, every word as well chosen as a brick in a garden wall, with here and there that same whimsy coupled with earthbound realism that makes White's childrens' books - Charlotte's web, The Trumpet of the Swan, etc - enduring classics.
I like every book of E.
B. White and have always lamented that there were not more books of his.
Though I'm too ancient to read his children's books, I love all the rest of his books.
The topics range from the mundane work of taking care of farm animals to the serious issue of war, race, and profit-sharing.
I can't hide my smile when I read, towards the end, the piece in which he so carefully avoided using the word "socialism" to describe his admiration for his profit-sharing scheme.
I read this book, because E.B.White was listed as a Maine author.
Although some parts of it were amusing, on the whole, it was difficult to understand.
He seems so caught up with his animals and yet he ignores his wife and son.
He refers to his son as "the boy" and never seems to have a relationship with him.
He claims he doesn't know much about farming, but then lists off all the work and chores he does around his farm.
I find his writing sketchy and sometimes illogical.
I kept reading, because I thought it would get better, but it didn't.
I gained a great deal of comfort and insight from E. B. White's reflections on his world, on humanity, and on himself. A true humanitarian who saw our light and shadow side but believed that the best in us would rise above the worst in us. Glorying in the ordinary every day, he helps us see with fresh eyes and love with renewed hearts. Pretty good for a man who defined himself as... "leading a duel existence—half farmer, half literary gent—I found difficulty making myself sound like anything but a flibbertigibbet."
