https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24983.Doomsday_Book
Well, if you've read a few of Connie Willis' "future historian" time travel books, you know that we're probably better off as we are, because without cell phones, it seems humanity would spend most of its days in fevered attempts to place calls by landline video phone, narrowly missing one another, encountering busy circuits, unable to locate anyone not at his home or office.
This is the same format Willis prefers for all of her longer works: lots of really great writing and compelling characters, but you have to wade through a bunch of repetitive "funny bits" to get to them, most of which seem to have to do with telephones.
The Middle Ages are a shady back alley of history. They are a juvenile delinquent to which all the 'proper' historical eras give the proverbial side-eye. “Life expectancy in 1300 was thirty-eight years,” he had told her when she first said she wanted to go to the Middle Ages, “and you only lived that long if you survived cholera and smallpox and blood poisoning, and if you didn’t eat rotten meat or drink polluted water or get trampled by a horse. Or get burned at the stake for witchcraft.” And y
And yet, despite the filth, the ignorance, the ever-present dangers, the rats and the Plague - the dreaded Black Death that wiped out a third to a half of Europe - a young Oxford history student Kivrin Engle gets her way: to be sent to the Middle Ages for a few weeks of full-immersion research armed with nothing else but a voice recorder to create her own version of the Domesday Book, an account of what it was to live in those times.
Half the novel consists of people panicking over the phone about other phone conversations other people have had about people getting on and off trains who are the children of WHO CARES.
Willis has no sense of perspective, no skill for inventing the suggestive detail; consequently, this novel is a monument to the gods of boredom.
This on top of the implausible premise that if time travel were available as a technology, historians would have a monopoly on its use.
I have found in my travels that most historians are much better at infighting than they are at obtaining control of proprietary technologies.
and what exactly was the point of this nearly 600-page novel?
that people can be incredibly annoying and repetitious?
that the Black Death kills?
i can't believe i wasted so many hours reading this flabby, irritating nonsense.
i could have been spending time with friends or exercising or taking naps.
or reading another book.
the entire thing is a monument to wasted time - my time and the characters' time and the 5 years of time it took to write this extravagantly dreary ode to pointlessness.real review to come, maybe, if i can summon up the energy.
A quote from courageous young Kivrin, the medievalist who travels back in time where she lives among villagers in 14th century English: “I wanted to come, and if I hadn’t, they would have been all alone, and nobody would have ever known how frightened and brave and irreplaceable they were.”― Connie Willis, Doomsday BookDoomsday Book, republished as part of the SF Masterworks series by the American author Connie Willis is an amazing, unique, captivating 600-page novel taking place in two times concurrently: near-future Oxford, England and a 14th Century medieval English village.
Christmas 2010: I realised that I had got stuck in a rut. I was re-reading old favourites again and again, waiting for a few trusted authors to release new works. Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award. That’s 35 books, 6 of which I’d previously read, leaving 29 titles by 14 authors who were new to me.While working through this reading list I got married, went on my honeymoon, switched career and became
Something had to be done.On the spur of the moment I set myself a challenge, to read every book to have won the Locus Sci-Fi award.
.It was the third book I’d read by Connie Willis (after 
) and it shares many of the Willis trademarks but the tone (and emotional response) is completely unlike either of them.Generally, this is a well-loved book, as you would expect from a multi-award winner.
Because she felt real, because I loved her just a little bit, watching her heart get shredded by the tragedy of unstoppable plague inflicted a tiny echo of that pain on me.
Where was God when Diane's son needed His love and comfort?It will be several years before I fully recover from the pain, both experienced and witnessed, that cut a swath through my life in 2009.
God abandoned Good People who needed Him. He stood by and watched.And it hit home for the first time in my life that what I experienced and witnessed in 2009 was nothing unique, or even rare.
How could I have sat and so smugly thanked God for the blessings in my life without at least wondering why God was allowing such suffering in other peoples lives?Doomsday Book made the Black Plague real for me.
So there I am reading (ok skimming) this book as some say “Best time-travel novel I've ever read!” or “a study of people's behavior” what behavior, all the characters did the same things repeatedly over again throughout the novel.
What the fuck a locator, so I went back and re-read it again , no that really can’t be.
Kivrin the young historian who travels back in time and seems to have only one concern and that is to find the 
Please if she can have a recorder (chip corder) and an interpreter then why wouldn’t she also be able to have a locator.
I read “The Doomsday Book” time travel saga, eagerly anticipating it based on the many Goodreads reviews that highly praise this story.
Many reviewers whom I trust rave about this book.
The first 120 pages can be summarized: “something is wrong”.
During the next 180 pages, the rest of the characters realize there is “something wrong”.
I felt like slapping virtually every character in the book at one point or three to stop whinging and get on with a rescue.
I didn’t care for any except the village priest and, just barely, the main character, Kivrin.
There is nothing “amazing” in this story.
Like her main character, time-travelling historian Kivrin, Willis seeks to link with a specific past and humanize it; like Kivrin, she wants to rescue the people of the Middle Ages from the negative reputation they've acquired, the modern disparaging judgement we've made against them for their filth, their narrow-minded worldview blinded by religion, their poor behaviour towards one another (she weaves in the apocryphal stories historians of the modern age tell, of cutthroats and villains; witch-burners and pitchfork-armed gangs seeking someone to blame; parents abandoning their plague-sick children and cold-hearted priests fleeing, leaving their parishioners to suffer in agony).
We don’t know what exactly as nobody in the story initially does either, but suffice it to say that a number of smaller errors have led to a huge fuck-up that lands her in 1348, in the middle of the Black Death (the plague that killed half of Europe).The book is divided into parts where we see her in the past and parts in which we get to see what happens to the people in 2054/2055.
Not to mention that sickness can strike us down no matter how much penicillin we have.In the same vein, the book also makes a very interesting point about academia vs being in the field - theoretical knowledge like statistics on how many people have died from the plague vs actually living through an epidemic.
The first time I read it, I was fascinated by CW's take on time travel and the mirroring of the plague in the future with the past's Black Death, but moreover, the characters snuck up on me and tore my soul apart.
Even when I knew it was coming, when I tried to keep from loving all these characters in the past and in the future, I was unable to help myself.
This is the difference between good books and truly fantastic ones.
But it's also one of the most memorable SF books I've ever read, too.
And I just don't know if I have it in me to fully express how bad this book was.Let me start by setting the scene: the only vaguely science-fictiony thing is attempting to take place, where some guy mans a console and a history student, in "authentic clothes" sits among already damaged items so that when she's sent back in time to a bit before the black plague, she'll appear to be a high born woman attacked on the road, deserted by her help with a nasty bonk to her noggin from her contrived robbers.
Maybe my favorite time travel book ever (and I like me a good time travel tale), Doomsday Book won both the Hugo and Nebula (as well as several other awards) in the early 1990s when it was published. It's more about the people than the science. Kivrin is a history major at Oxford in a near-future world where time travel machines are controlled by universities and used for research purposes. Kivrin is traveling back in time to live in a medieval English village for a few weeks, but things go just a bit wrong...A lovely and heart-wrenching story, highly recommended.
From my blog:If you haven't read anything by Connie Willis, I highly suggest that you stop whatever you're doing and go out and get one of her books.Willis is sort of a giant in the science fiction world -- she's won Hugo and Nebula awards, among many others.
Bellwether was much about science itself, and To Say Nothing of the Dog and Doomsday Book are both set in the near future, the only difference being that her world has time travel.
She doesn't spend a lot of time explaining the future world she's created.
Just about 3 stars. It's a shame really because I LOVED the actual account of Kivrin and the details of life in the 1300s community she was brought in to was fascinating. If all or the majority of this had been the main chunk of the story, this would easily have been 4 stars. But I found the modern day story really boring.
So Mark Twain's "A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court" does not do much for me and "Timeline" by Michael Crichton is possibly the worst time traveling book I have ever read (I like other Crichtons though).
Back to the "boring" allegation, there is some pacing or progression problem with this book, at times characters seem to be running around circle not advancing the plot very much.
A very interesting question that the novel raised in my mind is since what happened in the medieval time has already happened as far as we in the present time are concerned, all the characters from that period have been dead ages ago, so does it matter to the visiting time traveller if they die or how they die?
It was not a book without faults however, the chapters in contemporary times were not as interesting.
As I say after I finish a Hamilton book: "Good, but needed to trim alot more fat."I think Willis was trying to make a point about the fragility of the human experience by diametrically opposing a plague in the 14th century with one in the 21st, but I never really felt too terrified with the events in contemporary times.
Could just as easily be a 3 or 3.5 star, but the fact I still think about these characters this long after I've finished the book, elevates it to a 4.
It's a nod to the historical “Domesday Book” of 1086 and focuses upon a futuristic society sending some of its people back into the past to Oxford, England but an error puts the main character into that area during the Black Plague.
Note that while they are sending people out that said society has their own plague epidemic taking place.
The strengths of this novel are its attention to Historical details, the engaging and believable characters suitable to an era and the dark but hopeful tones and themes of the story.
Prevalent themes of love, bravery, faith and hope.
I should have...";c) her difficulty of not inserting modern idiom into her speech;d) her realisation as she joined festivities that these people had been dead for 700 years;e) the question of whether life in the Middle Ages was as we perceive it;f) that some things like ignorance, prejudice and fear mongering don't change - they have travelled with us through the centuries;g) Finch's obsessive concern about the lack of lavatory paper in the midst of major crises.h) the medieval view that if she did not remember anything, how could she remember how to speak?I liked that Kivrin dropped the phony identity and instead pretended loss of memory.
Let's let this hold up the story for at least 50 pages!" This book was written in 1992.
It is not without its own aggravations (Kivrin too is something of a moron, missing all the GLARING signs that she's landed in the middle of a plague, plus, she ALSO immediately gets sick, making the first hundred or so pages of her adventure an exciting story of delirium and vomit.) But things pick up once her health returns, and we get to know the residents of this small medieval town.
It's just that not a whole lot HAPPENS here either, until page 400.That's when Kivrin and her compatriots in the future both suddenly realize - WHOOPS SHE'S IN THE WRONG TIME.
It does a thing very well, that I suspect a lot of writing advice tells you not to do, but I wish more books did, and that thing is saving the action til later.Let me qualify that a bit - Doomsday Book is a book of two halves; the first half involves a lot of people hanging around in places and waiting for conversations that they don't end up having.
So in the last three months, I've been asking various writer groups I know to think of female protagonist time travellers who get to do the tourism thing properly, other than Kivrin Engle.
I read reviews of the book before I bought it, and those reviews help convince me to give it a try.
I usually read the back cover, and if it sounds good, I buy it.
But I read the back cover of this, and it sounded interesting, maybe something great, but the reviews pushed me over.
Is it just me or are the Hugo winners, many times, just boring to read.
I mean, they sound good in summary, but when you read them many make you go "Meh".
And I like verbose, when it suits the book.
Remember that old adage - "the past is a foreign country" - well if nothing else brings that home then this book will.
In the 1990s Willis wrote this book in an imagined future of the 2050s and we can read with amusement how the comparatively recent years of the 1970s were already becoming misremembered (and fearsome because of it).
Willis's vision of a future with video phones tied to landlines and almost impossibly small file-sizes seems charmingly naive now but only serves to emphasise the sheer impossibility of the historian's (and futurist's) task of understanding another era.
Conflict in her writing is mined not from twists and turns and a frantic plot, but from the minutiae of interpersonal relationships.I think the thing I love most about Doomsday Book is that it manages to make something nerdy–time travel–even nerdier just by making its heroes historians.
She will be the first person to travel back to the Middle Ages, previously a restricted time period, and she’s doing so against the advice of her mentor, the other main character in the novel, Dunworthy.
And all the characters in the Middle Ages we end up getting to know through their daily actions more than we do their interactions (i.e. conversation) with Kivrin.But somehow it all works.
For almost the entirety of the book, Willis repeatedly detailed a main character’s struggles to extract vital information from another character; at least a dozen times hammered home that the Black Death wiped out 60% of Europe’s population; and--just plain stupid--until the final 25%, kept a dorm in dire straits owing to a shortage of toilet paper.
It’s a memorable 578 pages but more so for repetition than actual story.Doomsday Book’s narrative is split smoothly into two points of view, one in the present day, the other in the Middle Ages.
Reading time would be better spent with a quality non-fiction book on the Black Death.
Rather than either idolizing or condeming the past or the future, Willis presents both in a very real, all-too-human light.
I like all of her books, but this is one of Willis' best.
I don't usually like time-travel books, especially ones to the past, but this was so well done, I barely noticed that it wasn't "my type of book".The book begins humorous and light and remains that way for the majority of the story, despite the heavy subject.
This is not 600 pages of depression, it has all the ups and downs of any human story, and it has continued to touch me long after I put the book down.
Müthiş keyif alarak okuduğum, türü bilim kurgu diye geçse de bu türe yabancı olanların ve hatta bu türü sevmeyen veya önyargılı olanların dahi rahatlıkla okuyacağı bir kitap. Çünkü kitaptaki tarihi kurgusal boyut bilim kurgusal boyuttan çok daha baskın. Kitabın uzunluğu (580 sayfa) kesinlikle gözünüzü korkutmasın. Su gibi akıyor. Özellikle 14. yüzyıl İngiltere'sinin yaşama koşulları ve 1348 yılı veba salgını açısından da oldukça bilgilendirici bir kitap. Bilim kurgu meraklılarındansa ortaçağ veya salgın hastalık tarihi veya İngiltere tarihi meraklılarının daha çok ilgisini çekecek bir kitap. Kesinlikle tavsiye ediyorum.
A young historian, Kivrin, makes a trip to a previously off limits century - the 14th - and thats when everything starts to go wrong, both in the time she is visiting, and back home in Oxford.To be honest, the science is a bit duff.
Kivrin, the other main protagonist, starts out as a rather naive young woman, but when she is thrown unknowing and unprepared into the worst that medieval England has to offer, she treads a very hard path with courage and compassion.
At several points, Kivrin reflects that these people are long dead in her own time, but when living alongside them she can't help but engage.
It WOULD be boring to walk around with a history book and go, "Well, in 2053 the university department folk are twats so that must mean all with a scholarly bent are twats."Doomsday Book had a good book inside of a kind of chore.Confession time: I started to skim any time set in the "present" with the historians running around like, well, rats in a maze.
It was too OH MY GOD STUFF IS GONNA HAPPEN!
That's what large parts of Doomsday Book felt to me.It's like hanging out with my sister and her little kids.
