https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17801.Underground
Absolutely heartbreaking. I had no idea about this event in history until reading this. Insane.
In fact, when reading the rigid and all-prevailing work ethic of the commuters on their way to work on the doomed trains, the sense of entrapping routine makes you wonder how 'crazy' the interviewed Aum members are for wanting to escape it.
A cult may be written off as a collective conscience of weak robotic drones, but take a closer look at 'the Japanese Psyche' as the ill-fated commuters desperately try to ignore their symptoms as they continue struggling to work, in many cases half-blind and unable to walk.
Having said that, Murakami doesn't sugar-coat the Aum members in his interviews and asks them some difficult questions; and rightly so, terrorism is never acceptable.
The men who caused the havoc were members of Aum Shinrikyo, a Japanese quasi-Buddhist cult led by a former acupuncturist called Shoko Asahara.
In 1994 the group purchased a twin-turbine Mi-17 helicopter from Azerbaijan for $700,000, according to reporting done by Andrew Marshall and David Kaplan for their bookThe Cult at the End of the World: The Terrifying Story of the Aum Doomsday Cult, from the Subways of Tokyo to the Nuclear Arsenals of Russia.
Just like in the West, Japanese political leaders are requesting more surveillance powers and are using the Aum affair to further their agenda.The Tokyo subway gassing remains the most serious terrorist attack in modern Japanese history and in many ways the Aum Affair is an open wound in Japan.
The Japanese Psyche is an area that interested Murakami and he seemed to feel a need to explore the wounds that festered in Japan after the attack (and the Kobe quake).
He might not get to interview those who actually perpetrated the Sarin gas attack, but he could speak to their brothers and sisters.
In many way the book reminded me of both Jon Krakauer's Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith and Lawrence Wright's Going Clear: Scientology, Hollywood, and the Prison of Belief.
His book's structural limitations let you sympathize with both groups, but there was very little mapping to the narrative.
This book contains interviews of people caught in the attack, as well as interviews of members of the Aum cult, although none of them were perpetrators of the attack.As a reader from another country, I feel like I'm missing a lot.
I read the book feeling like Murakami was assuming I already was familiar with both the gas attack, and the Aum group, and I'm not, so I was having to piece together a picture from the narratives, and I still don't think I have the whole story.
The third section wasn't originally part of this book and is titled "The Place that Was Promised", containing interviews with (ex-)members of Aum Shinrikyo.Part 1: The victimsThe interviews are organised according to which train line the interviewees were on, each "train line" track introduced by the movements of the perpetrators of the gas attack.
But that comes with non-fiction, obviously, and my wonderment is testimony of Murakami occasionally allowing his readers to truly feel connected with the people he interviewed.
Part II consists of interviews with members and former members of Aum Shinrikyo.And this is where things get really weird....http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aum_Shin...The members of this cult -- who resemble a cross between the Moonies and Lyndon LaRouche -- are uniformly described as ordinary (read: "mediocre") Japanese who were nonetheless interested in the "deeper" problems of life.
Murakami points out, in one of these interviews, that adolescents who get interested in the question of meaning, usually start reading books -- philosophy, and so forth.
Words can be practically useless at times, but as a writer they're all I have. A group of people killed another group of people. I could be talking about a number of things. A description of the present. An incident in history. A prediction of the future. The final result of brainwashing. The beginning of a new era. A cause. A conclusion. The means. The end. A resolution. An excuse. The threat executed by an oppressor. The exigency fulfilled by a nation. Culture clash. Revolution. Murder. Self-
One thing that's different is I can let myself trust a little more the truth I'm hearing, cause if I have to read another white person talking as if they know anything about non-white people and getting paid for it before I'm dead and gone, it'll be too soon.
Another is that I've gotten over my whole anti-religion fad after years of being told on a theological level morality was where it wasn't and wasn't where it was, so I don't stop at Aum as the ultimate mystery and instead continue on to the government, and the corporate work force, and the fact that a nation not giving a fuck about certain groups of its people will always have consequences.
The bestselling novelist Haruki Murakami gives a Studs Terkelish treatment to the Tokyo sarin gas attacks of 1995 which killed 12 and injured hundreds.
(On the upside, I am now familiar with all the symptoms of sarin gas and will know what's happening if I come under attack.) The same is largely true of the cult members' accounts.
While they generally acknowledge that the gas attacks were wrong, some of them remained with the Aum Shinrikyo cult (which still exists, but under state surveillance).Murakami had been living abroad for eight years in Europe and the U.S. when he decided to write Underground.
Murakami interviewed around 60 victims, and we hear detailed accounts of each interviewee introducing themselves, what their lives were like when they got on the train on March 20, 1995, what happened on that day, and how the attacks have affected them afterwards.
I had to write something about reading this book, and now that I've started, I feel like I could use up the whole 20,000 character limit.Murakami also had something pulling on him when he read a letter from the wife of a man who'd lost his job after the sarin attacks, in some magazine ; the man wasn't quite the same after that day, and those at his workplace didn't understand him, didn't sympathise with him.
As someone who's trying right now to invent a city that has a true, deep, four-dimensional presence in my narrative, this was a kind of textbook of all the things I need to think about and understand to make that kind of verisimilitude possible.This book was an amazing worldbuilding demonstration, though, precisely because Murakami isn't worldbuilding at all.
He can't make sense of what happened, any more than the survivors and the members and ex-members of Aum can, but I feel like this book does succeed in framing the mystery at its center so that we understand the dimensions of the thing that we cannot comprehend.
The rain that fell on the city runs down the dark gutters and empties into the sea without even soaking the ground. The sarin gas attacks on the Tokyo subway in 1995 were perpetrated by Aum Shinrikyo, a Japanese religious cult, and attracted wide media attention. Aum emerged in 1984 when previously strict measures by the Japanese government against new religions were relaxed. During the post-war American occupation and in the years following, this laxness was an attempt to show that the new pol
The sarin gas attacks on the Tokyo subway in 1995 were perpetrated by Aum Shinrikyo, a Japanese religious cult, and attracted wide media attention.
Ian Reader points out that young people were attracted by the media’s portrayal of Asahara as “an embittered youth at war with Japanese society from early on.” Despite some media attention in years prior to the attacks, the group gained notoriety following the subway attack in 1995.
These statistics, taken with the media framing, exemplify the media’s potential pandering of stories to Japanese society’s appetite for news on the “atypical” and sensational stories of the Aum cult members and the subway attacks.(The above is from a term paper I wrote for a freshman seminar.
hồi đấy mỗi lần ngán ngẩm đi bộ qua cánh đồng bất tận tới lớp, nghĩ tới cảnh lại phải nhìn thấy mặt từng đứa đáng ghét ấy, trong đầu mình hiện lên câu hỏi là Nếu mình bắn bùm bùm từng đứa một thì sau này cảnh sát điều tra họ sẽ kết luận mình là phần tử khủng bố đơn lẻ cực đoan đúng không nhỉ?
Đoạn cuối của câu chuyện chất độc sarin là hàng thành viên Aum đứng trước vành móng ngựa, với mức án tử hình và chung thân vì tội ác chống lại loài người.Tôi thích cách lý giải của Murakami, không phải là câu hỏi, tại sao họ lại tham gia Aum trong khi họ là những người ưu tú, xuất sắc nhất, mà là họ đã trở thành tín đồ của Aum vì họ đã ưu tú, xuất sắc và luôn tuyệt vọng muốn đi tìm ý nghĩa của cuộc sống như vậy.
There's little thematic crossover between the three parts beyond the obvious shared subject matter, so the reader must change gears as each section bears down to become the new asphalt of the road Murakami presents.In the first section, we feel anger and fury and pain and anguish and maybe even a little terror as we read firsthand accounts of train passengers who gradually succumbed to the Sarin's effects.
Finally, each individual speaks about any lingering effects from the attack, whether physical or psychological, and Murakami caps the interview by asking after the victim's emotional response to Aum, to the government, to Japan.
This books definitely unputdownable when i just start reading in the first pages!
This is the one that painful to me to read until the last pages!
So it is a book about Sarin's gas attack that happened in Tokyo Subway (Hibiya line/Chiyoda Line and Marunouchi Line) around March 20, 1995 because of the religious cult Aum Shinrikyo!
:'(( I just realized in last march 2018 i was passed in those Subway line and it is really sad for me since this year is exact 23 years ago that tragedy is happened.
I know that buddhism never taught about murdering innocent people.
The Beginning: Two men were assigned to drop sarin gas on the Chiyda line: Ikuo Hayashi and Tomomitsu Niimi.In ‘Underground’, Murakami interviews victims of the Tokyo gas attack. He asks them about their life and work, makes them describe in detail how they experienced the attack, what happened afterwards and how their life has been ever since.It was a terrifying yet fascinating read. You could feel the claustrophobia and fear as people in the underground discovered that something was wrong, an
He asks them about their life and work, makes them describe in detail how they experienced the attack, what happened afterwards and how their life has been ever since.It was a terrifying yet fascinating read.
The most terrifying descriptions were of the victims who didn’t understand that they had been subject to a terror attack.
Some were asleep on the train, and woke up confused and sick, just hurrying out and stumbled into work.
It made me think how horrifying it must be to be subject to a terror attack.
Cult members entered trains near the front with two or three newspaper-wrapped packets of sarin, piercing the packets with sharpened umbrellas the members were able to get off the train with minimal injury due to the gas.In Japan, this book was published as two: the first being interviews with sarin survivors that had been affected in some way, even just having their day disrupted; the second being interviews with members and ex-members of Aum that agreed to be interviewed.
She was the one most affected by sarin that agreed to be interviewed for Murakami's book.
Though he appears a bit prejudiced & even harsh at times (my observation entirely) towards the members of Aum (all of them here had no hand in the gas attack), it probably stems from the amount of damage & hurt he'd experienced first-hand while interacting with the victims before.
But then, Murakami is not a professional journalist & he is more likely to express himself than any stoic journo would."Underground" by Haruki Murakami is a riveting work of investigative reportage & certainly succeeds in achieving what it sets out to do - try to give an unbiased account of both sides of the Tokyo Gas Attack & explore where the Japanese as a responsible society is going off the rails.
This a collection of interviews with the victims of the Tokyo subway gas attack, in the first part, and with some (ex)members of the cult that did carry out the attack.
One of the most recurrent themes is that people unaware of what had happened, but affected by the gas, were still trying to get to work.
In the second part, Murakami manages to find some members of Aum, the cult that carried out the attack, some of them having left Aum and others still sticking with it.

พอไมใชนิยายกใชเวลาอานนานโข เดือนครึงเชียวกวาจะจบ นับถือในความทุมเทของเฮียและทีมงานในการรวบรวมขอมูลและสัมภาษณผูประสบภัยในเหตุการณปลอยแกสซารินในรถไฟใตดินเมือครังนันมาก ๆ ดวยความทีเปนแนวสารคดีจึงไมไดมีความตืนเตนระทึกขวัญในแบบนิยาย ความนาสนใจอยูทีเหตุการณนันเกิดขึนจริง มีผูเสียชีวิต และไดรับบาดเจบมากมาย แลวยังมีผลกระทบสืบเนืองทังในดานรางกาย และจิตใจตามมา ทุกคนตางถายทอดเรืองราวในวันเกิดเหตุออกมาจากความทรงจำ และมุมมองของตัวเอง อานแลวรูสึกไดถึงอารมณหลากหลาย ความทุกขทนหมนเศรา โกรธแคนชิงชัง งุนงง ฯลฯ คนท
พอไม่ใช่นิยายก็ใช้เวลาอ่านนานโข เดือนครึ่งเชียวกว่าจะจบ นับถือในความทุ่มเทของเฮียและทีมงานในการรวบรวมข้อมูลและสัมภาษณ์ผู้ประสบภัยในเหตุการณ์ปล่อยแก๊สซารินในรถไฟใต้ดินเมื่อครั้งนั้นมาก ๆ ด้วยความที่เป็นแนวสารคดีจึงไม่ได้มีความตื่นเต้นระทึกขวัญในแบบนิยาย ความน่าสนใจอยู่ที่เหตุการณ์นั้นเกิดขึ้นจริง มีผู้เสียชีวิต และได้รับบาดเจ็บมากมาย แล้วยังมีผลกระทบสืบเนื่องทั้งในด้านร่างกาย และจิตใจตามมา ทุกคนต่างถ่ายทอดเรื่องราวในวันเกิดเหตุออกมาจากความทรงจำ และมุมมองของตัวเอง อ่านแล้วรู้สึกได้ถึงอารมณ์หลากหลาย ความทุกข์ทนหม่นเศร้า โกรธแค้นชิงชัง งุนงง ฯลฯ คนที่ไม่ได้เจอเหตุการณ์นั้น ก็คงไม่อาจเข้าใจถึงความเจ็บช้ำ หวาดหวั่น และโกรธแค้นของพวกเขาอย่างแท้จริง เพราะความเจ็บปวดที่เกิดขึ้นภายในไม่อาจมองเห็นด้วยตา
3.5 ★★★ «The rain that fell on the city runs down the dark gutters and empties into the sea without even soaking the ground» Review in English | Reseña en español (abajo)I had this book on my tbr for more than four years but I never dared to read it. The main reasons: I didn’t like the two non-fiction books I've read written by Haruki Murakami – What I Talk About When I Talk About Running and What I Talk About When I Talk About Writing–, and I thought that the 'essayist’ Murakami wasn’t my cup o
Y, además, en este caso es un tema que nos produce cierta irritación: podríamos haber sido víctimas y comprendemos su dolor (me quedé especialmente conmovida y rota con la historia de Shizuko Akashi), pero también llegamos a comprender ese lugar que prometieron a las personas vinculadas con la secta budista Aum Shinrikyo.Con todo, debo admitir que la parte final de las entrevistas a las víctimas del atentado llegaron a abrumarme bastante, y la organización que se nota al principio del libro comienza a ser más laxa (en total son en torno a 70 entrevistas de mínimo 6 páginas, y el formato es complicado para leer de una sentada).
I should re-read this book someday.
When the news headline flashes on the screen talking about the number of people dead and perhaps one tantalizing video that shows a graphical representation of the tragedy, it is easy to feel that momentary empathy for the people and then go on living your life being glad that you weren't the one going through it.
My only surprise was that the people who fell into this trap were educated, strong people who could think for themselves and yet, there was this sense of belongingness, the purpose, the detachment from what they called 'secular world' that made them do things a sane person wouldn't.
Two parts-- heart-wrenching and tragic, harrowing and too emotional, the insight views from both affected victims/families and cult members, past and present.
I love reading part one though quite distressing and redundant but reading on how people felt about the tragedy was an eye-opener.
I like that the interviews not covered only about the tragedy but as well as the victims personal life, their relationship, work life and the after effect.
Love the interviews style-- respondent own perspectives and they talked about anything they want to talk about.
& they do, but I think that just underscores how deeply these behaviors are ingrained across the spectrum of Japanese society.After this section, he includes quite a few pages of his thoughts, titled "Blind Nightmare: Where are We Japanese Going?" I think it's his attempt to wrap his head around what happened (he had been living out of the country for many years before the sarin attack & had just recently returned to Japan), the way everyone handled the situation, to try to guess what might lead people to joining cults that eventually lead them into killing others.The end of the book includes some interviews with Aum Shinrikyo members (group who released the sarin gas on the subways).
This is really 2 books - one of interviews with victims of the Tokyo sarin bombing and the other, interviews with ex-members of the cult behind it.
The first was pretty compelling reading and really gets into the personalities of the victims, the effect it had on them and what it was like to be there.
The second half, I found quite heavy going, though.
Miracle that more people weren't killed and that having taken place so many years ago, it hasn't happened again.
Never did like going on undergrounds and after reading this, you might not fancy travelling on them again !
If I recognize the dissonance of my beliefs (say, that Asahara can levitate) I can introduce a counter-dissonance (I believe in Asahara’s ability to levitate so much, I am willing give him all my money, or put on silly masks and pass out leaflets, or release sarin gas in a crowded subway).
Luckily, most of us don’t have to support a coherent worldview where people can levitate.I had never heard the word “renunciate” used (as a noun) except with the 奉仕男 at Tule Lake.
I might be willing to assume that anything encouraging self-reflection can’t be all bad (γνῶθι σεαυτόν).
There are different editions of Underground, but mine (Kindle edition) consists of three parts- Part 1- interviews with the victims of the attack, Part 2- interviews with the Aum cult members- none of them with the perpetrators, and Part 3- a book review- an essay by Murakami prompted by the publication of the book written by one of the cult member responsible for the release of the gas and serving the life sentence at the time.Even though mostly unedited interviews make up most of the book, there are some very enlightening remarks by Murakami in between the parts and in the final essay; enlightening in the sense of understanding the background for 1Q84 since the cult from 1Q84 bears an uncanny resemblance to Aum Shinrikyo in many respects.
