https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303098.Riptide
⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ 5 blimey stars from this buccaneer!Argh mateys! I had to finish it, I was obsessed with pirate treasure by the end.This book was so much fun, action packed and I loved every damn, scurvy minute of it!This book was packed with cool science, great engineering theory and practice, historical information and lore on pirates, a vast pirate treasure and a deadly curse on a rocky island on the coast of Maine.Did they finally get the pirate treasure?Did anyone survive?Did they finally find St. Mic
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️ 5 blimey stars from this buccaneer!Argh mateys!
I had to finish it, I was obsessed with pirate treasure by the end.This book was so much fun, action packed and I loved every damn, scurvy minute of it!This book was packed with cool science, great engineering theory and practice, historical information and lore on pirates, a vast pirate treasure and a deadly curse on a rocky island on the coast of Maine.Did they finally get the pirate treasure?Did anyone survive?Did they finally find St. Michael’s Sword?Did greed and obsession turn friends into foes?
Read this book to find out!
Another excellent and suspenseful adventure from the Preston/Child duo!
Preston and Child are always amazing - this book was no exception.
I was immediately enthralled with the National Treasure-esque intro and all the mystery it presented.
These guys can really spin a tale!Almost every chapter ended with a cliffhanger.
This is typical for Preston and Child, but that is okay with me.
Usually, the end of a chapter is a good place to stop reading until later.
But, P&C make it so I don't want to!Also, I love the fact that they frequently make the mystery seem supernatural, but throughout the book plausible, factual explanations are presented.
It was likely inspired by the Oak Island Money Pit up near Nova Scotia where Captain Kidd or perhaps Blackbeard buried their treasure hoard.
Anyway, this treasure hoard is estimated at 2 billion dollars in the late 1990s and the choice item is St. Michael's Sword which is said to kill any mortal who looks upon it.
To further complicate matters the hoard is located at an island off the New England coast which has the dreaded Water Pit Trap which has killed or ruined many treasure hunters/explorers of the past.
People who enjoy puzzles or the grand treasure hunt will likely enjoy this novel.
An awesome, stand alone adventure from Preston and Child. What's not to like about a modern day treasure hunt, complete with the latest technology? The authors also throw in a good measure of pirates, curses, history, and great characters. This book reminded me of the Money Pit legend of Oak Island. RIPTIDE is one hell of a fun read!
Riptide a non-Pendergast book by messieurs Preston & Child which concerns itself a group of treasure hunters that wants to solve the riddle of the waterpit of Ragged Island where by lore is told lies the buried treasure of the illustrious pirate Red Ned Ockham.
These days worth something around 2 billion dollars and the mysterious Spanish treasure "St. Michael's Sword" that was a secret weapon that could kill anybody.In the history of Ragged Island there is a long list of failed attempts of recovering the treasure with a lot of deaths and financial downfall for those involved.
This is my third Preston & Child book (the first two being their Pendergast series) and I am now convinced that I don’t need to read any of their synopses anymore, I am just going to pick up their books and read.
I’m not sure which author writes which part, but I don’t care.
Lol!
I just know that whenever I start to read I feel like I’m intensely reading the page word by word because so much is happening, and you can see the movie being played in your head.
This one, especially, had some exciting, gripping and hold-your-breath-moments that made the time just fly by while reading.
Extremely disappointing 1.85 stars.Psstt
You have a clue who these two peeps are?  No? All right, I'll tell you.Rick & Marty Lagina starring in  The Curse of Oak Island. These two brothers managed to turn a tiny fuck-off Canadian island off the coast of Nova Scotia into a wheel of Swiss cheese as they tried to retrieve a legendary treasure... wasting a shitload of dough while at it. Of course, when they were finished, they didn't find shite all. They did a look to camera and went "Ah, fuck this! We're going home." Actually, they di
All right, I'll tell you.Rick & Marty Lagina starring in  The Curse of Oak Island.
These two brothers managed to turn a tiny fuck-off Canadian island off the coast of Nova Scotia into a wheel of Swiss cheese as they tried to retrieve a legendary treasure...
Of course, when they were finished, they didn't find shite all.
We're going home." Actually, they didn't say so but, if you ask me, the whole thing is fucking funny as fuck.I think the producers of the show read this book before venturing into the business of not finding a treasure.
The book's great fun.
It's a fascinating (and TRUE!) story of buried treasure…or at least a buried SOMETHING, on an island off the coast of Nova Scotia.
As I have many times, Preston and Child have taken a more-or-less historic event and built a tale around it, and a fascinating one at that.
It's gripping right clear through and holds up through repeated readings…and I ought to know, I've read it four times now.
I'd say it's the perfect vacation book, but it's awfully distracting.
Perhaps the perfect "cold winter day" book?Interested in reading the "in fact" basis of the story?
This book is not for me.
Abandoning it, after half way mark.
Sluggish plot pacing.
I feel like I'm still waiting for something interesting to happen and the book is half over.
Alot of talk about water pumps, pipes, engineering - not my thing.
The characters seem a bit flat, too.
It felt like the authors were just phoning it in, to meet a publishing requirement.
I've read a number of books by these authors, particularly the Pendergast series, and really liked them.
I don't know what happened with this book, though.
Oh well - you win some, you lose some.
75% of their thrillers seem to involve subterranean tunnels, caverns, pits, shafts, underground labyrinths, subways, dens, etc. It's getting a little old. This is also the second thriller featuring a weirdo fire-and-brimstone evangelical preacher, which is even more annoying.On the plus side, there were no hoboes.
the two great minds think wonderful, i really enjoyed this standalone of theirs, but I don't like the ending, hasty
Too much time has passed since I've read a Preston and Child adventure.
But still a great story, I love the set up -- an island a good distance from the mainland, shrouded in fog, carries a history with mysteries and legends.
You know its a Preston/Child trademark novel when a challenge, such as Ragged Island, is faced head-on with millions of dollars spent on the latest high tech gadgets and the best scientists one can find.
But of course, no matter how much staff you have on hand, or how brilliant your technicians may be, how strong your structural support, or how many sensors giving readings of weather, pressure, temperature, etc...
Enjoyed the story. Moved fast not overly detailed.
In this case, computer networks that are supposed to be fully synchronized degrade without explanation and expensive scientific instruments give off false readings along with mysterious ailments among the cast of characters in the novel and “historical” populations which preceded them (at least, within the conceit of the story).
320) It’s all too true and something of which I apprise my history students whenever possible.I enjoyed Riptide, but I’m bothered by the sense that all of the ministers in novels by Preston and Child tend to be more than a little bit “off.” In some sense, they seem deluded and in other ways, they seem to have more sense than some of the protagonists.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
Truly incredible. I was able to hear every sound, smell every smell, and see every sight. The tone of the dialogue was completely audible. I enjoyed every moment and wish that the next adventure of Hatch and Bonterre was chronicled!
This book takes from another famous story I read about when I was young; the water pit.The water pit was originally found in the 18th century on an island off the eastern seaboard.
Excited that he was on the track of a famous rumored pirate treasure, they kept digging and discovered a wooden platform at 10 ft.
Eventually digging down to around 100 ft, the pit suddenly began to fill with water.
Long story short, no one has ever been able to excavate the obviously human-made pit and several lives have been lost.Enter this book.
A library book. This is a good ole pirate-treasure-hunters story by the author of _The Lost City of the Monkey God_, one of his thrillers written with Lincoln Child.* * * * *Eek! I stayed up until 1 a.m. to finish this, then was too keyed up from the excitement to sleep for a while afterwards. This is my first Preston/Child novel and I'm told it's not their best offering; however, I gave it five stars because it has everything I look for in escapist fiction: adventure, fast pacing, intriguing characters, and a great setting.
This book had so much potential!
In the first place, the title is entirely irrelevant to the book.
They had multitudinous opportunities to make the reader connect with the characters and they completely neglected this vital point.
The complex characters became completely cliched.
A few re-worded pages could have fixed the holes in the plot - gaping holes big enough to drive a train through.I am more offended by the fact that they had a superb and fascinating concept and ruined it than I am about the shoddy character formation.
I still give it two stars for a great idea, but the book itself was a waste of time, mine and theirs.
All in all, this book belongs on the Disappointment Shelf.
The book contained too many details about technology that was new when the book was written but is more than twenty years old now, and I know more about the delicacies of draining a water pit or the proper way to maintain a boat than I will ever need to know.
He wanted the treasure.I also didn't like the inclusion of the main character's romantic interests.
They were just reflections of the way the main character saw them, and apparently he didn't see them as being that interesting because they bored me.
For centuries, treasure hunters have sought the lost horde of the notorious English pirate, Edward Ockham.
Clues led to the mysterious water pit on Ragged Island, Maine--but a curse left behind by the long-dead pirate still seems to be working.
A little back story: the English pirate Edward “Red Ned” Ockham apparently hid a vast treasure on an island off of the coast of Maine in a deep, man-made shaft, which was booby trapped to kill anyone foolish enough to try to steal the loot.
That shaft, or water pit, is a real creation.
I really enjoyed this book. This is the first Preston/Child novel I have read but it won't be the last! Loads of action plus a great yarn about a pirate's buried treasure. Three hundred years ago a pirate buried his treasure on an island and set up multiple hazards to trap anyone trying to get the treasure. Highly recommend this one.
Thoroughly entertaining on every level! I couldn't wait to dig into this one once I read the back cover. While this story was fictional, it was based off a real water pit and now I feel compelled to learn about the real deal. Any reader who enjoys his other books is bound to enjoy this one too.
Here, however, they seem to have gotten lazy, trusting in the technical and adventurous thrills to deflect attention away from their weakest point - the human element upon which, unfortunately, the entire climax is so precariously perched.What initially drew me to Riptide was it's fictionalization of the Oak Island treasure hunt.
In moving the island to the coast of Maine, Preston and Child also up the stakes, incorporating a series of gruesome deaths into their story, and inventing Edward Ockham to take the place of Blackbeard and Captain Kidd as the pirates behind the treasure.It's here that they truly shine, not only adding some interesting narrative depth to the history of the pit, but also devising a really clever explanation for it's construction.
Según cuenta la leyenda, el pirata Ockham enterró su fabuloso tesoro en esta isla de las costas de Maine.
Hasta que el capitán Neidelman, con un ingente presupuesto y la más alta tecnología, le propone un nueva búsqueda del tesoro de Ockham.‘El pozo de la muerte’ (Riptide, 1997) es una novela al más puro estilo Preston y Child: misterio y acción trepidante.
El libro ofrece lo que promete, una historia de acción, misterio y traiciones, sin profundizar excesivamente en los personajes.
Creo que las novelas de la serie de Pendergast son más redondas.

Twenty-five years ago Malin Hatch and his elder brother took a small boat to the family owned Ragged Island.
This cursed island, supposed cache of the buried treasure of pirate Red Ned Ockham, was purchased by Malin's grandfather who lost his entire family fortune and his life seeking the pirate's plunder.
Malin's brother disappeared during the trip.
Now, a commercial treasure hunting company has persuaded Malin to allow them to excavate in return for half the treasure and the possibility of discovering his brother's fate.
The treasure recovery begins while an historian and a computer programmer struggle to decipher the code of the architect's documents.
I abandoned ship a few times on this one, but reluctantly climbed back aboard. About 400 pages of how to retrieve a few billion in treasure from Ragged Island (loosely based on the Oak Island events), finally followed by some mild, predictable action in the end. Not sure why I stuck with it. It was like being caught in a riptide, hoping to be saved. Ha!
It's a good old fashioned adventure story, with pirate legends, hidden treasure, diabolical traps, and crazy obsessed "bad guys." It moved along at a breakneck pace, and the adventure aspect mostly covers up the plot sins.
And the question of whether (view spoiler)[the ground would block out as much radiation as they're claiming.
The minister was a laughable cliche through most of the book, but then got a sort of redemption, so I guess that makes up for how goofy he was earlier?
If you like mysteries, adventures, and booty (and who don't like booty?!), then give Riptide a shot.
