https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/429883.The_Hidden_City
I don't really have strong feelings about this book. When I finished it, my first thought was just this is a book, that I have now read. This series was interesting but I didn't think it was the best series ever. I'm glad that I read it for the experience though.
Finally slogged my way all the way to the end of this, "Book 3 of the Tamuli." Characters ran around, killed other characters, rescued lovely maidens/wives in distress, and eventually pretty much all got married.Again, I know these are huge bestsellers, but they just didn't really do it for me.(Although, I have to admit, the insights here into Troll culture are pretty funny.)
A končíme vo veľkom štýle, zlo je po hrdinskom boji potrestané, morálny akcent neprebíja pointu a ale aj tak sa mi najviac páčila komická vsuvka v podobe spojenectva s trollmi.
He started out mediocre, and rose to greatness quickly, eventually descending back into mediocrity with the subpar Dreamers saga.But the Elenium and the Tamuli are, in my opinion, beyond anything he's ever written.Being book 6 in the Elenium/Tamuli storyline, I suppose there's no real reason to convince you to read this book because, quite frankly, you've stuck with the other 5 by now and I really can't imagine anyone suddenly deciding to stop without seeing how it all ends.So as a critique, Eddings' wit is amazingly sharp throughout the entire book.
I loved all of these books, and I know that I'll look back fondly on Sparhawk's adventures in years to come.
The characters become so individual throughout the course of the books that you really feel like you've gotten to know each and every one of them seperately.
In fact, you just wind up wanting to know more about all of them and how their lives ended up playing out.
It was defnitely interesting to see how Eddings decided to end it all, and though I greedily want more, I must say that it was indeed a good ending.
The best of the trilogy, mostly because we skipped between plentiful points of view and that definitely kept the action going.
It was still plagued with sexist and racist representation (the Atans, with their yellow skin and black hair, for example, and the way that both women and men see the other sex in a derogatory fashion.
Sparhawk remained the best character - grumpy and irascible, with a sense of his own worth and capabilities.
I enjoyed the tedious "clever" exchanges and loved the way the heroes acted.
I want three-dimensional characters.
I want equal representation.
It made them people.As an atheist/agnostic (I'm not very clear on what I actually am, it does not play a big role in my life), I was also pretty charmed by the way the religion was in these books.
(view spoiler)[The gods were actually part of the people's lives, they were the very magic (which was basically praying, but actually meaningful praying).
(hide spoiler)]Last book was a lot about action and maybe I liked it more than the previous ones because it was a goodbye.
Hell, I still miss Arutha and spol from Riftwar series :) I would have liked very much to know what would happen with (view spoiler)[ Danae and Talen (hide spoiler)].
The third and final book of the Tamuli.
Sparhawk and his friends work to rescue Ehlana.
Not only must they battle Zalasta and his insane son Scarpa, but also Cyrgon and Khael--Bhellion's opposite.
While fighting Cyrgon, Sparhawk realizes that he truly is the son of Bhellion and has the powers of a god.
Powers which he asks Bhellion to take away so he can be a mortal man.Ehlana is rescued, the world is saved, Vanion and Sephrenia are married by Xanetia.
The Delphae become creatures of light and join their god among the stars.
Wow, what a reveal about Sparhawk! When looking back over the six novels, it all suddenly makes sense. This was one of those really slow builds to a grand reveal. Marvellous. The whole conclusion was very satisfying although I did feel the reunion between Sparhawk and his wife could have been covered a bit better. I thoroughly enjoyed the whole series, not as much as the Belgariad and Mallorean series though. If you are thinking about reading this book, wait until you have read all the preceding novels - this will make the denouement so much more satisfying for you.
I'm sad to be at the end if this excellent adventure.I won't reiterate the same praise that's in my other reviews but I need to mention that in the audio book Kevin Pariseau really excelled with some of the characters adding an extra dimension to an already excellent story.Sometimes Eddings generates excellent characters in a generic good / bad world, however by the end of this adventure the world is much more realised and not just the world but the universe as we touch on Science Fiction in parts.A must read but only after reading the previous 5 books!
A fine ending to a near-perfect series. I do want to make an observation about the deities in the Elenium/Tamuli cosmology. The Styric Younger Gods seem to be spinoffs of Greek and Roman mythology, and that's fine. But the Elder Gods, Cyrgon, and the Troll Gods are more "elemental." If they are "elemental," would that not place them closer to the Titans in Greek mythology?
A super closing of the trilogy, loose ends all tied up - although the renunion of Sparhawk and his queen felt a little skipped. The whole series concludes in a satisfying way. Dont read this without completing the 5 prior books, because, ... Spoilers!
As ever entertaining and engaging fantasy. Both plot and characters very well realised as ever with the Eddings.
Full review coming soon.
Fun read. Black hats and white hats. :-)
And what a book!After Sparhawk released the Troll-Gods up in Atan, they took back control of the Trolls and turned them against Cyrgon and his Cyrgai.
The brother and opposite of Bhelliom, Klæl is a monster beyond all imagining, and Cyrgon is a fool to think he can control it.Unbeknownst to Sparhawk, while up in Atan releasing the Troll-Gods, his wife was abducted by Scarpa, son of the traitorous Styric, Zalasta.
There are only two trilogies featuring these sets of characters, and although this was a re-read and I knew it would end, it still left me feeling really sad to say goodbye to such well loved characters.
Thus, as it had ever been decreed, would Bhelliom and Kleal contend for the fate of this world--even as the man Sparhawk must finally face the God Cyrgon, in mortal combat and alone...### From Publishers WeeklyIn this conclusion to the trilogy begun with Domes of Fire, Sir Sparhawk must rescue his wife, Queen Ehlana of Elenia, from the followers of the mad god Cyrgon.
### From Library JournalTo rescue his beloved Queen from the clutches of a mad god's minions, the Pandion Knight Sparhawk confronts a monster capable of destroying his world.
A great many things happen in this book as Sparhawk & friends, as well as the Atans, Trolls & the Church Knights, begin their assault on Cyrgon & his allies.
Sparhawk, who is otherwise a decent human being, decided the best way to honor his fallen squire & long time friend, Kurik, was to make his sons knights.
The Church Knights have decided that Kurik's sons will become armored killing machines and that is that.
By far the best of the Tamuli series, the Hidden City doesn't quite match up to the dizzying heights of the Sapphire Rose, but it's a nice ending for Sparhawk and co's exploits.
Ehlana refers to him as the most offensive of her captors, but all he really gets a chance to do is stand around and look handsome and cruel before he dies.
Another problem is, much like the previous book, the Hidden City is riddled with inconsistencies.
We're never getting another novel with these guys, and in a way this feels like a chance to bid them all goodbye.
It's a lot like a greatest hits album for some of Eddings' best characters.
It took me far, far too long.
I think the reason I took so long, though, was that I didn't really want to have to say goodbye to these characters again.
I have a tendency to put off finishing a book when I know it's the last in a series.I love the way Eddings characterized the people.
Many, many of the characters were married or in committed relationships by the end of the series, but that's fairly typical of his writing style.One section - the wedding shown in this book - is a little stilted in it's writing, but...
Other people will see the humor in how Eddings did that (as I did).
So, I finally finished all the Sparhawk books.I'm finding this hard to sum up.
Let's go with positives and negatives.Positives:- the trolls are fun - Eddings has fun with their speech and ways of thinking- when there's actual description and action, it's so easy to visualise, and fun- Talen's always enjoyable- some of the banter is genuinely funny- (view spoiler)[at one point it looks like Eddings actually kills off a main character!
While I can see myself re-reading the Belgariad, I doubt I'll ever read these again.
This is a review of the full three book series, The Tamuli, rather than just the last book.It was a re-read of the series that I just finished, and after quite a long period of time.
I read the books initially when they were first published, so over 20 years ago.
I suppose that we all grow up and our tastes in books change.Reading the series now, I found that I had trouble just getting through the books.
Some of the characters are enjoyable to read, but I feel that part of the problem is that there are too many of them as the series progressed.
I found that even though there are many male characters and our main character is male the female characters shine in the story.
It is nice to see many strong female roles in fantasy books.
As far as this trilogy as a whole I felt I could have skipped book 1 and not missed anything, especially given the recap of the prologue in the next books.
As far as the 2 trilogies culminating into 1 big story it was great.
You could probably read the Tamuli without reading the Elenium and not be lost but you would be missing out and may not get all the deeper connections.
(No specific spoilers, but there are some general hints)The first two books, really the first 5 books since it this follows on the heels of the previous trilogy, were successful because of the interplay between the characters.
No individual character was very deep, but the group interaction hid the rather sparse way they were drawn - a single characteristic, or maybe two would separate them.Unfortunately, Eddings broke them all into teams of two or three and had them running every which way so they could meet up at the finale.
The third and final book of the Tamuli, The Hidden City, sees Sparhawk and his clan finally win through triumphant in climatic battle (though not as climatic as many over books in the genre) and all loose ends gets tied up in a nice neat bow.The series is the same as the Belgariad/Mallorion and while still worth a read the format is getting over used.
The wit and batter which is charming to begin with also reached the end of it’s welcome by the end of the series (which with the Belgarion books totals 18).
This one I probably started speed-reading to get it over with.★★ - Average.
Probably skimmed parts of it.★★★ - Decent.
This one had parts that inspired me, impressed me, made me laugh out loud, made me think - it got positive reactions and most of the rest of it was pretty decent too.★★★★★ - Amazing.
This is the best I've read of its genre, the ones I hold on to so I can re-read them and/or loan them out to people looking for a great book.
The best of these change the way I look at the world and operate within it.
The final book in the Tamuli series - a really good ending.Sparhawk and his allies have to travel into the city of his enemy in order to rescue Ehlana, but knowing it is a trap, they have to come up with some devious ways of turning the tide of war back in their favour.
But the ultimate 'trick' lies with the 'Blue Rose' and what Sparhawk's ultimate destiny is.I really enjoyed reading this, even though it did bounce around a bit when all the characters were off following their own path.
The ending was great though.
I will definitly be checking out more of David Edding's books.

Yikes...
Eddings really fell off in his dotage!
After spending all his creative juices on the 13 books that comprised the Belgarion series, this final Sparhawk trilogy comes off very flat-footed and uninspired.
just seem to blend together in a haphazard mess leaving the reader too bored, overwhelmed and unmotivated to invest their mental faculties into appreciating the variety of Edding's fantasy landscape.
This book reads like an author on a mission to fulfil a writing obligation, and I imagine I was just as relieved as Eddings to finally put this mess behind me and move on.
And the Tamuli series comes to a close with the good guys finding the Evil God and bashing him up with a magic stone while making one-liners.
I think I've reached the conclusion that Eddings (with the possible exception of the Belgariad) didn't actually set out to write serious fantasy novels.
Rather, he writes a form of pastiche of the fantasy novel.
I certainly hope that an author who has a queen worry about her hairstyle right after she has witnessed the destruction of a city and the death of a god is taking the mickey out of something.
