https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858313.The_Children_s_Hour
This book brings back memories of what a bad girl I was in school.
When I left I was very pissed off, I'd been expelled yet again (drunkenness from mixing rum with yoghurt for lunch, conducting the school choir quite literally behind the headmistress's back, cheating in exams - took me ages to get caught, I already had a job and a place in art college and my father wouldn't let me leave school) and I so wanted my own back.I went to an extremely academic girls' school where there was a very small set of us, just six, who were two years ahead of our grade.
The book is about the same sort of rumour an evil and manipulative girl starts in her girls' private school, which becomes a scandal and irrepairably destroys the lives of the teachers concerned.
It is in this light that New Orleans born Lillian Hellman penned her debut play The Children's Hour, about a vicious girl who falsely accused two of her teachers of lesbianism.
Before Joe and Kate could enjoy their marriage and honeymoon, student Mary Tilford accuses Kate and Martha of engaging in lesbian affairs.
Mrs. Tilford takes the side of her granddaughter, the school shuts down, and Martha, Kate, and Joe are ruined.
By reading classic American plays of the 20th century, I glean much about various time periods from these character studies.
Sometimes I felt like I'd literally stepped into another time period, and I took comfort in completely losing myself in a director's imaginary playground.
I woke up early one morning during that month, in time to catch a wonderful film called These Three, filmed in 1936, that was based on the play The Children's Hour by Lillian Hellman, who also wrote the screenplay.
Read the play, watch the films, see for yourself.
Reading the play for the first time now, I feel this surging protective affection for that scared, beaten person of 8 years ago.
I remember being floored by this play when I first read it in high school, not the least reason being we were assigned to read a play with a lesbian theme in a Catholic school.
I would say that this is similar to "The Crucible" with a lesbian relationship substituting for witchcraft--except Hellman's play was written 18 years before Miller's.
I liked this line from the review, how the play acts "as a prescient commentary on how suburban puritanism and its sidekick, gloating prurience, stick their big noses into relationships between teachers and charges, especially today." Gloating prurience!
This tiny play is packed with tension. I knew the basic plot (at a 1930s boarding school for girls, one of the students starts a harmful rumor about the two women who run the school), and technically there's not much that happens beyond that. But Hellman is so skilled at building a creeping, chilling dread, and she creates an interesting portrait of a little girl who compulsively lies. Recommended for a quick, dark read.
Abigail Williams (The Crucible) is one of the most hateful literary characters I've ever come across - she's high up on my top 5.
Mary Tilford, the little demon, may just have kicked Abigail down a notch on my Characters I Hate the Most list.
Although this is a work of fiction, it is scary to think how very possible it is for a bully to intimidate others into spinning a web of lies that can ruin people's personal and professional lives.
If she were real, I think I would track Mary down and choke her with my bare hands!
I had to read this for my Uni Acting For Stage module in which I am directing and excerpt from this piece. I really enjoyed it! I'm really excited to get down and do some directing and hopefully we will all do really well!The play is set in a boarding school for girls where a particularly bratty student starts a viscious rumour about two of the teachers.It provides great social commentary and touches on the themes of LGBTQ+, secrecy, lies, suicide, gender and family.A great read!
This is my second Hellman play, and I'm definitely interested in more of her work after being mesmerized by this and The Little Foxes. I connected with Martha's character right from the beginning -- her sarcasm, her cynicism, and by the end, her desperation were all wholly real to me. I'm also glad to see I'm not the only one who envisioned a link between Mary Tilford and Abigail Williams from The Crucible. What a spiteful little brat.
מהמם.
Readers need to understand that the play is less about lesbianism and more about a specific lie.
Maybe Hellman did consider lesbianism just a plot device.
Readers still argue over whether Shakespeare was criticizing or endorsing the prejudice Shylock endures, and the homosexual element in The Children's Hour stirs similar debate.
The plays depiction of a suicidal lesbian who is ridden with guilt may seem a little old-fashioned, laughable, or even possibly offensive.But The Children's Hour is far less dated than that.
Lillian Hellman's great play "A Children's Hour" is the story of two women who run a private school for girls and whose lives are ruined by the evil and vindictive accusations of one of their students.
The implications of lesbianism and society's intolerance for differences are among the many themes addressed in this fine work.
I believe it is timeless but others may see it as dated.
Guilt by accusation remains as much a part of our society as ever...sadly.
The inference that homosexuality is equal to criminality still exists despite the many decades that have past since this was written.
A harrowing play about how the lives and relationships of Martha Dobie and Karen Wright are changed when accused by a pupil of having a romantic relationship. It's a timeless play in that it explores the damaging effects of gossip and lies. And boy, did I hate Mary. I don't think there's very many fictional characters I hated as much as her in the span of 60+ pages.
I love when lesbian characters are punished for their sins. love it. It was so great to read another book where the dirty lesbian dies. great. love it.///sarcasm
Lillian Hellman's The Children's Hour (1934) proves itself to be of perennial relevance. From HUAC to the Tumblrized call out culture of the 2010s, the little liars and exaggerators like Mary Tilford bully and blacklist and attempt to destroy anyone who gets in their way. THAT SAID, isn't it kind of funny that Lillian Hellman's most important play was all about the dangers of lying while the writer herself was accused of making up and exaggerating sections of her own memoirs? Although, to be fair, her lies never set out to wantonly destroy others.
Wonderfully evil, and so much better, I believe, than Miller's play, The Crucible on the same theme. The movie version of Heller's play has held up well.
This is a very interesting story of how rumors and lies can destroy people's lives.Karen and Martha run a girls's school, but when a young student becomes upset about being punished for some behavior, she accuses the two teachers of being romantically involved. And you can guess how it all turns out. But even though the reader can see what's coming almost from the start, it is still very sad, and really makes a person think about how all our behaviors can potentially affect others' lives.
Children are the worst.
read in high school - One of my favorite plays ever.
like I know i say this when I read/watch anything somewhat emotional but goddamn I am in SO MUCH PAIN
This play is largely character driven and driven by an event caused by a large and dangerous shortcoming or one character.
The smallest events seem to add to the big picture of who each character is, so by the end of the first act, the reader knows exactly who each character is, the way they think, see things, and how they function emotionally.
Every character and every word has meaning and adds to the play.
She takes such a simple concept (a child's lie complicates the lives of four people--and ruins two of them) and creates a complex and compelling read.
They have a very close relationship, and their extremely manipulative pupil, Mary, decides to play with this well known fact and start a rumor that they are intimately involved.
It blows my mind that it was written in the early thirties.
It was one of the first plays to openly deal with same-sex relationships, which I think is so cool and brave.
I am currently involved in a production of this play in Portland playing the character of Mary.
She is so deliciously evil and manipulative, unlike any other character written for a child actor I have encountered.
Lillian Hellman wrote this book in the 1930s.
Even though the story is defined by the character's reactions to the perceived scandal according to 1920s standards of decency, it still resonates truthfully with today's readers/audiences.
80 years later we are still judgmental of other people and capable of being so cruel to them.The story is simply and beautifully written and the characters are well-defined.
The older women, Martha's Aunt Lily and Mrs. Tildford, are particularly memorable because of the judgment they pass and their devastating actions toward Martha and Karen.This play will move you and make you think.
This book is frightening in so many ways.
I teach in an all-girl high school and I have seen how gossiping can be so damaging but what it pains me the most it is the fact that most girls don't realize how their words can change somebody's life, usually for the worse.
And like Karen, you try to make them realize that but sometimes it is a lost battle because society teaches you since you are a kid that you have to be "respected" in a violent way or being just mean.It was a discouraging reading to be honest but it was masterfully executed.
Our setting is a school run by two women, friends since college.
When they punish Mary, one of the students, for faking a heart attack, she runs to her grandma and tells her about how the two women are lesbians.
It's an interesting, certainly sad story once everything plays out, but it never reaches the emotional height I was preparing myself for.
Mary is perhaps the best character, incredibly devilish and controlling, but her disappearance from the second half weakens the whole structure--no one is quite as interesting as the awful little girl, and I missed her in the third act.My rating: 4/5from http://jonathanlikesbooksblogspot.com
A tragic story of how an angry, malicious lie can lead to absolute, far-reaching destruction for many people. It reminded me of the storyline of Atonement (at least the movie: I haven't been able to get through the book yet). Rumors spread and listened to, acted upon, can have disastrous consequences, and letting children get spoiled and not making them take responsibility for their actions can be just as detrimental. 3/5
When I took part in a production of this play in december, 2010, we discussed thoroughly the power of a lie. A lie told convincingly has the power to alter the opinions one holds of another. But an expertly crafted lie can also cause the victim to doubt themselves:"Why is it that so many people are so willing to believe this lie? Is there some truth within this lie?" A challenging play I was proud to take part in, even if I was only in the first scene).
Despite the use of homosexuality as trigger to drive someone to ruin, Hellman's play delivers a strong message about kindness and righteousness. Surely groundbreaking for its time, it feels slightly awkward, yet still sadly relevant today.
Rumor has it...... Classic story of what can happen when a lie and a rumor gets out of hand. I kept hoping that an adult would see past the lies of a spoiled little girl.
A solid reminder of the historical struggle of the LGBT community to be contributing, respected members of society.
Reminiscent of Henry James' Bostonians, though this play is both wittier and more overtly tragic. Life sure has changed since 1934 (thank goodness!).
