https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79257.Don_t_Panic
Very enjoyable for Douglas Adams fans. A bit dated at this point (written in '88) but the history on Adams' life and works is still relevant. Plus having one of my faves write about another is just too fun. I miss Douglas, his death in 2001 at age 49 was just a huge loss.
They've since published an updated version of the book, re-titled Don't Panic: Douglas Adams & The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, which was published about four years after Adams's death in 2001.
This book was an obvious stop on my quest to read the complete Neil Gaiman bibliography, not least of which because it's one of the first things he ever published, and also because it's really interesting as a Gaiman fan (and an Adams fan) to see Gaiman freaking out hardcore about Douglas Adams and his work.
Its part review of his publications with details on yes the Hitchhikers Guide books but also his Dirk Gently books and other books, and finally it is a guide to the series itself with a closer look at characters places and events - all in the style you would come to expect from Douglas Adams, although it is written by Neil Gaiman (who you can tell not only respects the man but also the work he has produced).
All in all a fascinating and entertaining (with some real flashes of great humour) read celebrating Douglas Adams and his work.
Bana bu kitabın ne dedirttiğini yazayım: DOUGLAS, KEŞKE HAYATTA OLSAYDIN."Bütün hayatım boyunca yazar olma fikrinin büyüsüne kapıldım, ama bütün yazarlar gibi yazmaktan, yazılı olandan hoşlandığım kadar hoşlanmadım."
Word of mouth recommendations meant that this obscure comedy sci-fi series grew to have a cult following very soon and it was to permeate the national culture in ways that Douglas Adams could never have conceived when he had the idea in a field in Innsbruck in 1971.Don't Panic…So began a much-loved trilogy that just happened to spread itself across five books.
But Douglas Adams created far more things than just this.
University beckoned and he ended up at Cambridge where he tried and failed to join Footlights.
An amazing book from an amazing author for an amazing author. It was hilarious, Interesting and easy to read.
If you have ever stood in a field staring up at the myriad stars in the night sky and wondering just how it came to be that the humanoid life-form known as Douglas Adams managed to dream up such infinitely improbable adventures, or if you have ever stood in front of a vending machine that has just provided you with a plastic cup filled with a liquid that was almost, but not quite, entirely unlike tea, then in all likelihood you will enjoy this book.Neil Gaiman has taken time off writing his own fantastic adventures to share with us his research into the life and times of Douglas Adams.
Gaiman manages to shed not a little light on Adams' creative process and life, from the rigors and panics of his early days of script writing for Doctor Who then the Hitchhiker's radio series all the way through to the very end of his career.
Written much in the style and humor of the author it honors, Neil Gaiman’s "Don’t Panic: Douglas Adams & The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy" is a wonderful treat for fans of “The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy” and its author.
Douglas said that he “Didn’t so much like writing as having written (Page 7)."Don’t Panic: Douglas Adams & The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy" is a fanboy love letter to an author known and admired.
"Don’t Panic: Douglas Adams & The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy" was a sheer delight to read and to remember the man that was Douglas Adams.
A true fan book, concerning every form of the HGTTG, from radio series, books and many different adaptations, as well as the author's other work. It was a bit tiresome sometimes, especially regarding the visual adaptations, since I haven't seen any, but still quite entertaining and informative. Love the appendix part.
Niente di nuovo rispetto a tanti suoi emuli, ma è indubbio che un po' di dispiacere ci sia.Poi, oh, stiamo parlando di qualcuno che non solo ha creato la guida galattica, ma l'ha riscritta non so quante volte, una per ogni media in cui è stata portata (e, ricordate, i libri NON sono stato il primo, primato che spetta alla radio); però, ecco, in qualche modo Adams era la Guida, nel senso che i suoi tentativi di discostarsene sono spesso finiti in un niente di fatto o non hanno avuto lo stesso successo del capostipite e nel senso che ogni volta che si era ripromesso di non scriverne più finiva per tornarci: per soldi?
I received Don't Panic: Douglas Adams & the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy as a birthday present & eagerly devoured it this week.
Equally a biography and an examination of Adams' body of work, the original version of Don't Panic was written in 1987 by Neil Gaiman, with additional chapters added by David K.
The work is roughly chronological, tracing the development of the Hitchhiker's Guide material through the original radio show, play performances, audio recording & television show, to the increasingly-inaccurately-named trilogy, computer game and still-to-be-hoped-for movie.
I would recommend Don't Panic to any Douglas Adams fan who knows where his/her towel is.
The book uses excerpts from Adams' works, and includes interviews with Adams himself, amongst others who we're important to Hitchhikers Guide's many branches of inconsistent retellings, all written by Adams himself, for the most part.The interviews with Douglas Adams, and others who were there during the quoted events, really help the understanding, as they give one a first person account of what it was like.
Don't Panic manages to avoid the dull fact spewing of other biographies; Using humor to make the facts of the time more interesting really helped me want to keep reading.
This was, oddly, the very first Neil Gaiman book I read.
It was in the Hazen High School Library and it said “Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy” on the cover, and that was good enough for me.
The third book in the five part trilogy?
was “a reaction against Dr Who, because Dr Who is always rusing about saving people and planets and generally doing good works, so to speak; and I thought the keynote of the character of Ford Prefect was that given the choice between getting involved and saving the world from some disaster on the one hand, and on the other hand going to the part, he’d go to the party every time, assuming that the world, if it were worth anything, would take care of itself.” 162.
Although I loved Hitch-hikers guide when I read it, and still do, I would have never picked-up this book if it had been written by anyone else.
It turns out that it was somewhat interesting to see the creative process at work.
The first two books were better than the next two because it was fresh and exciting to him and because they went through a process of evolution from radio show to book.
But the special circumstances that were responsible for the first book's brilliance likely never would have happened again.
A very good insight on Douglas Adams' process of creating The Hitchhiker's universe as well as his other works (such as his contribution to Doctor Who, Last Chance to See etc), everything that encompasses that, but also on DA's own character, work process and relation to other significant people (that some readers might have heard of through other books/movies/radio programs/TV shows but weren't aware of any connection). Moreover, there are some great excerpts from the books/radio programs and some bits that never made it into any story.
My only quibble is that the letters of the title on the cover are not large and friendly enough.
So I feel this book, instead of just trying to paint Adams in an idealistic way, points out both his strong points and his flaws, and that's one of the best things about the book.I read the 2003 version of the book, so there are extra chapters dealing with Adams' sudden passing and other things.
I read a lot of authors who say they outline everything in great detail before sitting down to work, and Adams was nothing like that.
I'm not quite so disorganized, but it's nice to know one can be like that and still manage to write books that people love.
Don't Panic: Douglas Adams & the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, as the 2009 updated edition is called, is a largely informative and well-balanced biography of one of my favourite authors.
Neil Gaiman's original chapters are excellent, with an informative but genial style, and occasional humorous asides which feel apt and welcome.
It's no hagiography - Adams' infamously unreliable nature is given due promenance, weaknesses in his work are examined fairly, and interview excerpts are included in which Adams admits his own dissatisfaction with his work.Since its first publication in 1987, Don't Panic has been updated several times, not always by the original author.
I am a huge fan of books "Hitchhikers" and they are me go to re-read books as I can pick up one and read it from the bookmark I left in it six months ago and jump right into the story. I was so excited to see a bio about Doug and how the series came about. Well, this is the newest version of this book with other author contributors and I found it tedious,dull,and possibly worse than Vogon poetry. Maybe I needed a Babel fish to understand the way this was done, but Belgium! I expected better that this.
This is actually one of my favorite things that Gaiman has done. It feels more authentic than most of his prose. His enthusiasm for Adams is palpable, and I've always suspected that Gaiman is an avid reader and a fan of writers, and he worked hard to become a writer in order to accommodate those two passions. If that's the case, then this is about as close as we can get to "true Gaiman."
It was lovely to learn about all the process that The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy (one of my favorite books) entailed in all its varied and multiple forms. Getting to know more about Douglas Adams in the fantastic way Neil Gaiman wrote this was a very nice experience. Four stars!
For me, non-fiction gets way too bogged down in facts and too quickly forgets what makes anything worth reading in the first place; ie: a narrative thread to hang onto and someone relatable to root for.
Don't get me wrong, Mr. Gaiman has probably written as good and entertaining a book about Douglas Adams as you could possibly want or expect, but the chapters devoted to projects outside the ones the title led me to expect grind the whole thing down to a screeching halt.
Связь “Автостопа” и “Доктора кто”, близость прозы Адамса и того, что делают “Пайтоны” и так выглядела очевидной.
Что Адамс практически сформировал направление “Доктора” с того момента, как стал писать для него.
Новый Свифт c Paranoid-Android’ом.Открытие - что “Автостоп” начался не с книги, а с радиопостановки, а первый сериал делался практически параллельно и сюжеты во всех трех медиа разные.
Сюжеты ещё и мигрировали из “Автостопа” в “Доктора” и обратно.
И только что вышел сериал “Дирк Джентли”, который очень, очень хорош, как минимум в первом сезоне.С Дугласом Адамсом связан не только Уэйкман, но и сэр Клайв Синклер - “Spectrum” у всех в детстве был, кто до 80-го родился?
It is correctly described in one of the other reviews as the hyper-extended bonus feature that was too long to include on any of the CDs or DVD versions of the radio broadcasts, televisions shows and unfortunately the Disney movie.If you have come looking for this book and have read this far my assumption is you are a Douglas Adams fan.
Granted Douglas Adams had a very slight association with the Monty Python's crew; more of common friendships than creative participation but none of this qualifies Don't Panic for a general audience.That portion of the book that is about Douglas Adams is clearly intended as a friends and family type biography.
This book is a celebration of Douglas Adams and the works he created during his lifetime, most notably focusing on the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy "trilogy" from which this book gets it's title.
It was really lovely learning more about Douglas Adams and how he worked.
It lets Adams's personality shine through without anyone else's personality really there to impede it.I probably am not likely to reread this book, but if you're looking for more information on the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, the life of Douglas Adams himself, or on any of his smaller projects like Dirk Gently, this is definitely a good resource.
Mostly boring.I glanced and saw it had so many positive reviews and, for Pete's sake, Neil Gaiman wrote it, it talks about Doctor Who and obviously, the HGTHG, how could I not like it?I didn't.
Parts were kinda sorta occasionally rarely interesting.
But it read like research report, without the fancy graphs and complete with long dry quotations.
Gaiman has such a knack for story telling, he could have easily collected all the information and then retold the stories in his own voice.
Really, the only thing I found interesting was that Douglas Adams invented Wikipedia.
Seriously.
It's not called that.
When it comes to authors, I am a notorious fan-boy!
My kids will relate stories when I become totally tongue-tied in the presence of people like Christopher Moore.
I can't help it!
So, it's great to read about authors, to find out that they really are just like me (I can relate to Adams' regards to deadlines: “I love deadlines.
I love the whooshing noise they make as they go by”).
Gaiman (another of my favorites!) does a great job relating the writing life of this man who was taken from us much too soon...
Just didn't work for me.
I guess I don't find Douglas Adams as interesting as I thought I did.
It picked up a bit when started focusing on the Hitchhiker's Guide and its many incarnations but not enough to keep me going.
Perhaps the most interesting aspect is that this was written by Neil Gaiman before he started getting published for novels and Sandman and I think was still before collaboration with Pratchett for Good Omens.
Guess he busted his chops early as a journalist of some sort?
Anyway, unfinished and probably won't pick back up.
It's more of a biography of The Hitchhiker's Guide than an actual biography, but there's a good bit about Douglas Adams in it, so I'm putting it on that shelf.
It's a good attempt to tie all the various bits together - radio, tv, books, computer game.
I found the first bits of the book puzzling because I've never heard the radio version or the TV version of Hitchhiker.
Also,not being British, I feel like a lot of things went over my head in the explanations.The latter part, where he's talking with Adams, and posting excerpts of fan mail and answers is quite funny.
Gaiman does a great job discussing Hitchiker's Guide to the Galaxy (the radio show, books, computer game, TV show, and even some things about the then unmade movie). He includes great descriptions of how they came to be and the people involved that helped (and sometimes hurt) the process. It reads like a true labor of love from Gaiman, and gives the reader a lot of interesting information about Douglas Adams and the way he worked.
