https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/950033.Stolen_Legacy
"تصادفت إن تحدثت ذات مرة مع أحد الأوروبيين عن هل فعلا فيثاغورث هو مكتشف القاعدة الشهيرة للمثلث ألقائم .. فرد باجابة قطعية "نعم" قلت ولكن هذه القاعدة وأعقد منها قد استخدمها أهل كيميت (المصريين القدماء ) في ابنيتهم الخالدة كمعابد أو الأهرامات قبل فيثاغورث بثلاث الآف سنة علي الأقل .. رد فعله كان زي رد فعل شفيق " إيه- what" .. ثم نصحته بكتاب في اللينك التالي يتتبع إنتحال لافكار المصريين القدماء و إطلاق أسماء علي هذه الأفكار كارسطو و أفلاطون" د.أحمد فرج علي
George G.M. James opened my eyes to the reality of altered history. Murderers of yore tell histories tales because their victims aren't alive to dispute. Of course there were very harsh criticisms of this work fueled by the need to protect "proven discoveries," hatred, and downright arrogance. I've done my own studies and found authenticity in this title. -but hey, you don't have to take my word for it!
This book is one of the most amazing books in existence & is vital to psyche of the young black male. It honors the contributions of a civilization that has brought more to the modern world than many realize.
Was shocking to read at first and wondered how much was true. A much more detailed account of how Egypt borrowed from Ethiopia can be found in The Destruction of Black Civilization.
This book is a classic text which I found very useful as a companion in researching the spiritual systems of ancient Nubia and Khemit ie Egypt. It also reveals the concepts which gave rise to Freemasonry and subsequent spiritual systems with his explanation of the nine, inseparable parts of the soul.
The most striking question the author leaves in my mind "why have we not read about the great Greek thinkers in the Eastern lands? The Greeks have written about the great civilizations of the east, but the Great civilizations did not write about the Greeks and all their knowledge and learning.Wonder why.
When I initially read this book, I intended to write my senior thesis on African/Greek philosophers and stolen history; However, after finding interest in a different subject (Urban Planning in Metro LA for those interested), I decided to put my work on political philosophy on a back burner.
During my undergraduate years my major was Political Science and I wanted to focus on the philosophical aspect for my political science senior thesis.
A portion of the book that was very pertinent to me was the historical finding of the Pythagorean theorem; realizing that Pythagoras learned the formula from Africa.
Important information was given in this book, but it was often redundant, and the writing style made it hard to follow. Considering the books mission and revelations, I'd still recommend it to others.
This book mainly is about history. Its about the rise of philosophy. Its about many great people like Aristotle and Galileo. Also about Egypt lost treasures.
Excellent book! Very insightful! Speaks the truth!
Another book which I read some twenty years ago. Time for a re-read and review.
لم أقرأ كل صفحات الكتاب ، وأظن أن قراءة بعضه تغني عن البقية لتشابه البراهين في مجملها
As such, the author's approach is very rigid and scholarly, which is both a strength of this book as well as a weakness.His arguments regarding the 'pre-socratic' Greek philosophers, the persecution of Greek philosophers, and the role of Alexander the Great in the inexplicable amount of scientific literature attributed to Aristotle, and what this implies about the role of the ancient Egyptian civilization (at the time) is very compelling alone and almost makes his point by itself.
World conditions have been influenced to our modern times; giving false praise to the Greeks: a custom which appears to be an educational policy conducted by educational institutions, these institutions have also organized what are known as Greek lettered fraternities & sororities, as symbols of the superiority of Greek intellect & culture.
Black people's culture has been caricatured in literature & exhibitions, in such specimens as provoke disrespect & laughter.
Never let us forget Theodosius & Justinian were reasonable for the abolition of the Egyptian Mysteries that is the culture system of the Black people, & also for the establishment of Christianity for its perpetual suppression.
It all started in African. Kemet (egypt)Everything.The Greeks studied, burrowed, and invaded with Alexander the Great, turned the sacred temples and schools into "libraries" reworte everything, put their names on it and sold it. pythagoroussocratesplatothe romans and mosesall thievery.all explained in the book
George G. M. James is one of the most important scholars Black America has yet produced. His is, perhaps, the most quoted book by more esteemed Black historians - like Prof. John H. Clarke - than any other book.
You can find many truths in the pages of this book. In life, we need the truth. No matter how much we want to hide, we need it.
very informative
Stolen Legacy is a very interesting and provocative book that challenges, explains and focuses on how and why Greeks stole the teachings of ancient Kemet (Egypt).
The title says it all!
Decent read, but very short.
Controversial for sure but given how white supremacy functions, it is unlikely significant time is dedicated to getting all the facts straight by anyone other than black authors & the average person doesn't have access to primary sources.
Most of it makes sense & appeared to be backed up by historical facts that are intentionally obscured or outright omitted.Definitely good as a starting point but investigating sources from other black authors who may have been able to be more thorough, Cheikh Ante Diop comes to mind, is definitely necessary.
Overall, it's a good book.
Stolen Legacy is a captivating history! This paper reminded me how little I have been taught about African history and inspired me to pursue more. I wish everyone learned the African roots of civilization and regarded people of African descent with the respect they (we) deserve. I would only hesitate to recommend this because he assumes a lot of background knowledge in philosophy and structures the arguments/chapters illogically at least in this edition (claiming to have proved points he has not yet and seeming to move on).
This revelation was experienced with pride and provided a context for understanding what racial survival constitutes within western societal foundations. The creation of literature and how it can be uses as a weapon of colonization while denying the truth and establishing fiction. When lies are well stated the truth then becomes unbelievable.
This book completely blew my mind. Unfortunately, I sound like a conspiracy theorist when I try to discuss its contents with people who aren’t familiar with the author’s thesis. It would be wonderful if someone could write an updated edition with new facts that surely have emerged since the early 20th cent.
A great scholarly writing that clearly describes how the Mystery Systems of Kemet/Egypt were misappropriated in antiquity. I strongly urge everyone to read this book soonest.
I learned some new information, which is always a good thing. However, this book seems to have been written more for teachers than mere readers.
Great bookI love it, it really taught me about my history and those of many others. Awesome, fabulous, amazing, wonderful, gorgeous
A true classic of Black scholarship.
الفكرة التي يطرحها الكتاب واضحة من العنوان؛ التراث الفلسفي اليوناني هو تراث مسروق من مصر القديمة.المبدأ ليس غريبًا، فكلما سطع نجم حضارة عنصرية قائمة على تفوق جماعة بشرية دون غيرها يعمد أفراد تلك الجماعة إلى نفي تأثرهم بغيرهم، بل وربما نسبوا ما تعلموه إلى أنفسهم.
أبرز مثال على ذلك هو سرقة إنجازات الحضارة الإسلامية ومؤلفاتها في عصر النهضة الأوروبية.أما الحضارة اليونانية فهي عنصرية بامتياز، لم يسلم غيرهم من الاتهام بالهمجية، تخبرنا النظرية السائدة أن اليونان ابتدعت الفلسفة والمنطق ابتداعًا دون الحضارات العريقة سواء في مصر أو في آسيا.
Than I grew older went to Japan and wonder why are Japanese people treating like I'm less of a person because of the color of my skin but treat white people so nicely.
I know I still have a way to go but I,m thankful for the new level of clarity, understanding and wisdom James has added to my ability to recognize and inoculate myself the spiritual, mental, emotional and physical disease know as global white supremacy aka, racism aka, paranoid hate.
My experience is that global white supremacy aka, racism aka, paranoid hate makes people spiritually, mentally, emotionally, and physically retarded.
