https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/776420.Ring_Around_the_Sun
A new earth for each new generation if need be, but they say we won't be needing them that fast." (c)Q:THE land lay new and empty of any mark of Man, a land of raw earth and sky; even the wildness of the wind that swept across it seemed to say that the land was untamed.From his hilltop, Vickers saw bands of dark, moving shapes that he felt sure were small herds of buffalo and even as he watched three wolves came loping up the slope, saw him and veered off, angling down the hill.
Este libro de Simak nos retrotrae a esos clásicos de la Edad de Oro de la ciencia ficción, ingenuos por una parte pero también muy entretenidos, ese tipo de lecturas que se leen con un gran placer.
‘Un anillo alrededor del Sol’ nos relata una historia sencilla a primera vista, pero en realidad toca temas muy interesantes, como son la Teoría de la Relatividad, la existencia de mundos paralelos, la Guerra Fría, la caída del capitalismo, así como una crítica feroz de la sociedad de consumo.La novela no trata de extraterrestres, galaxias lejanas ni nada parecido, sino que se centra en la misma Tierra, y trata sobre la teoría de la existencia de infinitas Tierras, cada una suspendida en su propio tiempo; digamos que no existe el término tiempo per se, y que cada Tierra permanece en su propio momento, como si de fotografías se tratase.
This is why I enjoy the works of Bradbury and Simak more than the modern writers who rely on technology and superheroes to drive their stories.Much of the 1950s culture can be found in this book.
It’s as if Simak had to pause to explain what his novel was about rather than revealing it through the plot.
Simak didn’t get much wrong technologically in the book.
But he remains that simple man without agenda, just trying to do the right thing.The plot twist at the end was brilliant.
That twist dramatically raised my opinion of the book and made reading it worthwhile
Certain [mutant] humans have developed special abilities, like being able to shift to nearby (in physical similarity) Earths.
These powers in particular allow the mutant community to rapidly advance--develop 'forever' products, build robot factories on second-Earths, and coordinate movement of members.
I guess I thought that any one of those abilities or developments would have been interesting enough to merit a story on its own--they didn't need to be grouped together.
The mutants were living in a utopian lifestyle, but their goal/solution to society's ills (view spoiler)[(resettle humans over many earths in a rural-pastoral lifestyle) (hide spoiler)] is naively idealistic.
The hero is inevitably based in a quiet mid west town where everyone knows everyone and it always seems to be the sleepy end of summer.Vickers has recently come across a scientific theory which postulates that there is another earth, slightly out of phase with ours, a second behind our world, and another a second behind that, and so on, forming a ring around the sun.And so, our hero, impelled by various 'arranged' factors, returns to the playgrounds of his youth and begins the process of discovering who he really is and the identity of the people behind the Forever Cars and the immortal light bulbs.Behind the obvious artistry and brilliance of Simak's ring of alternate words strung around the sun like a bracelet, the robots, the android and the mutant humans, there is a deep concern for the future of human society.
Simak is one of the most important Science Fiction writers of the early 1960's, mostly because he created novels of marvelous ideas, ones with much potential and meat on them, if you understand.
But Simak didn't always create great characters and plots to go along with those ideas (like so many other science fiction novels, the ideas are more important than the story).
In the story, Jay Vickers, on his way to a meeting with a Mr. Crawford, sees a shop selling Forever Light Bulbs, as well as a razor that never needs sharpening, a car that runs forever...etc...
Though I'm a longtime fan of science fiction, I have often found something a little formulaic about most of the novels from the "golden era" of the genre.
For a while, though, I thought that with this novel I had found one of the exceptions.
For much of its length Clifford Simak kept me guessing as to who Jay Vickers was and the role he was going to play.
It was as though Simak was at the brink of doing something that would have been incredibly daring and far-sighted for a novel of the early 1950s, then wavered and reverted back to the comfortable clichés of his time.
the concept of this story is great.
the parallel Earths and mutation of the humans, although that part surprised me at first I came to enjoy it.
As I was reading this story I realized this was written decades ago and I used to think there are ways to hear the starts as well...
didn't know others thought the same let some well before I was born.
The story Revs up from there real quick, a little too quick and suddenly ends, I do wish there was more said before left to the imagination but all in all is a good read for a sci-fi enthusiast.
Classic science fiction - not as good as way station (but then again what is) There are off course sign of age, everybody smokes, the Cold War is ever present, but you need to be able to overlook these things, if you ever are going to read an older story.But the story flows quickly and effortless and introduces some very interesting concepts
Il libro per certi versi tocca tematiche attualissime.Non è male, se piace la fantascienza è un libro che piace. Ma ormai è il terzo libro di Simak che leggo e alla fine, stringi stringi, i suoi libri mi piacciono ma, non sono come quelli di Asimov. Il mio paragone per la fantascienza è quello.E penso che con questo libro con Simak per ora basta
Ive read 5 Simak books now, The City and Way Station are my favourite, out of his more generic ( to me) books this one is the best i've read so far, there's even suspense here, if you enjoyed Time and Again or Time is the simplest thing go for it
Very good stuff if a little dated; but then that's what I like about classic sci-fi, the juxtaposition of 50s and 60s settings with mentions of parallel universes and hi-tech gadgetry.
Romanzo abbastanza scorrevole, anche se alcuni punti appaiono abbastanza prevedibili.
Comunque, ricordiamoci che stiamo parlando di un libro di fantascienza (anche se, in realtà, qui di fantascienza ce n'è davvero poca) scritto nei primi anni '50 del XX secolo.
La Seconda guerra mondiale era appena finita e si era agli albori della Guerra fredda, ma l'autore di L'anello intorno al sole, Clifford Simak, è stato molto lungimirante visto che ha scritto di nuovi ed importanti prodotti tecnologici (lampadine ed auto eterne su tutto) e, soprattutto, di una grande crisi economica mondiale (che, per certi versi, ricorda quella tutt'ora in corso) che genera frotte di disoccupati.Altro elemento che colpisce di questo romanzo è il suo essere una sorta di critica politica ed economica verso la modernità (si ipotizzano già dei robot che tolgono il posto ai lavoratori umani).[https://rosatoeu.blogspot.com/2018/08...]
Náramně zajímavé sci-fi o kterém bych se asi jinak zřejmě nedozvěděl, ale byla o tom zmínka v Hearts of Atlantis od Stephena Kinga.
Dicka, ovšem tady je nutno podotknout že Simak je o generaci starší spisovatel, narodil se v roce 1904.
Nevím co o tom napsat abych nespoiloval, takže jenom tak pár bodů - svět je ve studené válce, ovšem v pozadí je tu boj lidstva s mutanty (nechybí tu přirovnání "normálních" lidí k neandrtálcům a mutantů jako dalšího vývojového stupně co způsobí jejich zánik), jsou tu roboti a androidi, je tu myšlenka paralelních dimenzí mezi kterými se dá cestovat, filozofické úvahy o dalším vývoji a směřování lidstva atd.
Slabší Simak. Postrádal jsem tu hravost jeho jiných příběhů. Tohle sice pár momentů mělo, ale v jádru mi to přišlo spíš jako rutinní příběh.
Dato che lui e la potente organizzazione di cui fa parte, così come altre simili nelle altre nazioni, non sono riusciti a trovare un modo per fermare questa invasione, vuole incaricare Jay di scrivere un libro in cui, raccontando gli esiti delle ricerche effettuate (da Crawford e gli altri) sulla presunta società costruttrice di oggetti eterni, dimostri alle persone che è pericoloso, per loro e per il futuro della società, acquistare e usare questi prodotti.Jay rifiuta il denaro e l'incarico, sente che deve rifiutare.Il giorno successivo sparisce un suo vicino di casa, un uomo anziano e solitario con cui Jay aveva avuto, al ritorno da New York, una strana e intrigante conversazione a proposito di “immense riserve di conoscenza” che dovrebbero essere “lassù” fra le stelle, una conoscenza da raggiungere “con le nostre menti”.
They can't find out who is behind these innovations and want Vickers to tell the story, so that the public will reject these new products.
He has a chat with an older neighbor, Mr. Flanders, who speculates that the world has somehow managed to avoid war for forty years since the last great war.
Simak draws the reader in and brings us on a surprising tour of what might lie beneath the surface of the world as we know it.
Vickers is challenged to find out who he really is and the gradually revealed answers put him on a collision course with the Crawfords of the world.
It's getting nervous on good old Earth ...Author protagonist makes a writer who not only gets the job that describe all this madness, it's still the same seems to be involved in the event, which is slowly starting point to explore.Mutants, Androids, split selves, amazing inventions, traveling in the direction parallel worlds, telepathy - a lot of mushrooms in a soup making "Ring around the sun" work devoid of lightness.
Well, ending 2017 and starting 2018, because it took me a bit longer then I expected while reading this short novel.
Though it was priceless!It was a while since I've read sci-fi, so this was twice as exciting experience.The story is set in our world on the verge of economical crisis.
Bit by bit he comes by little disturbing news and facts, that connects to the future world as much as to his own mysterious past: a time when he went to mystic valley, where flowers bloomed in the middle of the winter.
Of society, of where out world is going.
"Pierścień wokół słońca" łączy w sobie prostotę charakterystyczną dla prozy gatunkowej z okresu, w którym powstała i swego rodzaju naiwny optymizm - ślepą wiarę w szybki rozwój technologii i postęp naukowy.
Sednem opowieści jest jednak tytułowy "pierścień" - czym jest nie zdradzę - i w tej kwestii liczne koncepcje Simaka - przypominam, jest to nowela z 1953 - były niezwykle nowatorskie i odcisnęły piętno na twórczości wielu pisarzy w późniejszym okresie (przywołam tutaj - oczywiście - Stephena Kinga i Terry'ego Pratchetta).
"Pierścień wokół słońca" nie jest kamieniem milowym w historii tej literatury (chociaż wpływ na jej rozwój miała niewątpliwy).
L'anello intorno al sole è un romanzo di fantascienza scritto da Clifford Simak nel 1952.Uno scrittore di provincia, Jay Vickers, viene incaricato da un'associazione governativa di indagare sulla comparsa sul mercato di numerosi prodotti che stanno mandando in rovina l'economia mondiale, come lamette che non perdono mai il filo, lampadine eterne o accendini senza ricarica.
Ma è quando viene messa in vendita l'automobile eterna ad un prezzo ridicolo, che il governo si preoccupa seriamente e non sa più che pesci pigliare...Una storia ben scritta e molto originale per il genere di fantascienza; come molti libri di Simak c'è molta poca tecnologia futuristica e molta più analisi sociologica e psicologica nella trama del romanzo.
Една страхотна книга на Клифърд Саймък – "Паралени светове".
Много добре автора е описал заплахата, която виси над нашият свят и чрез паралелен свят показва реално какво трябва да направи човечеството и за какво си заслужава да се живее.
:D) Ако силата на въображението на един човек е толкова силно, че да умее да вижда вън от кутията, в която живее, и това да означава, че си мутант, то мога да се оприлича като един герой в този науно-фантастичен роман.
Доста добре написано и времето ми прекарано измежду редовете на сюжета, хич не е загубено.
Давам пет звезди на Клифърд Саймък и книгата му "Паралелни светове"!
I read this around 20 years ago and it has sat on my bookshelf ever since.
I couldn't remember if I loved it or hated it (though assumed I wouldn't have kept it if the latter..), so thought I would give it another go as i'm 'clearing out' my old book shelves - only 5 star books to be kept in future.Turns out it was a bit bland, so it went on the fire last night after finishing so that it served some final purpose in helping warm the house.
Al principio sono negozi modesti, quasi insignificanti, sparsi qua e là per l’America, che vendono oggetti d’uso comune: lampadine, lamette, accendisigari… La gente passa, legge il cartellino che ne vanta la durata eterne e sorride.
E a migliaia, a milioni, lampadine e lamette eterne cominciano a diffondersi, seguite dalle automobili eterne, dalle case prefabbricate eterne, dagli indumenti eterni… Cosa si nasconde dietro questa incredibile operazione?
La chiave di tutto potrebbe essere uno scrittore che vive in campagna: un uomo che forse non è affatto quello che sembra, la cui vera identità si nasconde fra le strisce colorate di una vecchia trottola che gira all’infinito, verso l’infinito, dentro l’infinito.
Jesus, this was hard to finish.I don't remember why I wanted to read this.
I'm really glad I passed up every opportunity to buy it (which wasn't often, either).The main character is bland.
Basically walks away from the plot right off the bat but is dragged back in and we're forced to follow him.
The basic plot about non-breakable endless gadgets/etc toted on the description is quickly thrown under the bus for twists and turns never settling on one.
"Mutants" and "robots" and other Earths, oh my!I was determined (but not in a hurry) to finish this book since I searched it out.
An entertaining romp through a "Golden Age" 1950s science fiction novel.
The descriptions of "normal" then seem alien today -- everyone smokes, the corner drugstore, the Car is King, and the phone system -- needing a human operator to make a long distance call!
The upbeat ending in the face of adversity is also typical of the "Golden Age", and is present here.
The obsession with (view spoiler)[mutant humans taking over the earth (hide spoiler)] is very 1950s also.
My main complaint with the novel is the writing -- way too many passages of: "what if xxx??" or, if not that, then "what if xxx??" Some passages of that technique are OK but this novel overuses it.
Mejora la novela a partir de la 2ª parte. Al inicio todo parece estar sin conexión y con elementos muy "raros". Luego todo parece encajar y se hace compresible, pero le falta algo para ser una gran novela. Es muy posible que haya inspirado a las series de TV "Sliders" con sus mundos paralelos y "Heroes" con las habilidades de los mutantes, e incluso la película "Matrix" con el alma de las personas en androides.
An excellent novel and the first Simak I have read. I plan on reading more based on what I have read here. I have City,/i> on the way and I already possess Shakespeare's Planet,/i>. But this is a wonderful concept with a really good execution. Just a delight to read and the plot thickens almost with every chapter. Great fun and I recommend to anyone looking to discover some great science fiction.
One of the few enjoyable utopian science fiction stories you will ever find. The Harry Harrison introduction was apt and highly relevant. The pros of this pulp fiction classic are the simple description, abstract concepts, message, and relevance. The only reason this isn't five stars is for the rather wooden dialogue, especially with respect to the female characters--which in Simak's defense is highly common place in pulp fiction. I read the book in one sitting and found it highly entertaining.
De lectura rápida, este libro ofrece una mezcla de ideas hasta cierto punto disparatadas, hiladas en una trama que alcanza eficientemente la suspensión de la incredulidad. Como pega, su final es demasiado abrupto y tarda mucho en introducir los temas más interesantes. Además, hace algunas piruetas con la trama que no tienen mucho sentido ni necesidad en la historia principal.
