https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16081272-the-edge-of-never
Honestly, it was so bad it was kind of hilarious.I finally feel that I have read enough to safely make the claim that this "new adult" genre thing we've got going on now basically, well, sucks.
Natalie is promiscuous where Camryn is a good girl, Natalie wears revealing clothing where Camryn likes her pastel cardigans, Natalie thinks about sex where Camryn muses about life, the universe and everything.And what a lot of it comes down to: I hated Camryn.
like a sweet, sexy, completely un-slutty girl does it, the guy is thinking about a lot more than her face in his lap."Ugh. No more words on that.
Kept me totally riveted!This book is a beautiful story about friendship and love, of living in the moment, living life to the fullest, being true to yourself and not being afraid to reach for your dreams.
All the rest is just experiences and delusions.”  I know a some people have said that the beginning of this book was a little slow, and I’ll admit that it wasn’t a fast-paced thrill ride or anything, but personally, I really liked that part.
Totally beautiful!I don’t want to give it away, but just take heart, there IS an epilogue!
Poignant...BEAUTIFUL.This is a story of friendship...This is a story of LOVE...This is a story of serendipity...and a story of moving on, letting go, and living life...Living life in the   NOW  .This is the story of   Camryn and Andrew  [image error] “Have you ever wondered what it would be like to backpack across the world?”“Just you and a backpack with a few necessities.
I have a lot of fave lines, but I'll leave you with this one from Andrew: "Just that dwelling and planning is bullshit," he says.
5+ Unforgettable stars! Oct 2014- It's been almost a year since my last re-read and about 2 years since my first read... I'm missing Andrew <3 Audio book re-readNov.2013- I just re-read this book in preparation for the sequel, for the third time... yep. After reading hundreds of books since my first read through around a year ago, I have to say it is still one of my favorite books of all time! Amazing!Original Review (with some added images) 5 epic stars!!!  I do believe that this book is tie
I am pretty sure any review I write will not give this book justice (You just have to read it for your self!) But I'll try.There was no logic or any sense of purpose except that I knew I had to so something other than what I was doing, or I might not make it through this.Camryn had a lot going on in her life.
Andrew is very protective of Cam and after an incident in the bus stop they decide to travel together to wherever they feel like going in his dad's chevelle.
What lies beyond the EDGE OF NEVER ? ------------------FOREVER----------------------Readers,this is NOT just a book.....This is a JOURNEY....The journey of Cam....The journey of Andrew....It’s their journey to find themselves.So tell me Readers,have you ever felt the thrill of the journey which is known as.........Camryn is a 20 year old girl living in North Carolina.She used to be fun and outgoing.She used to run naked into a freezing lake every winter.But then she started losing everything.Sh
------------------FOREVER----------------------Readers,this is NOT just a book.....This is a JOURNEY....The journey of Cam....The journey of Andrew....It’s their journey to find themselves.So tell me Readers,have you ever felt the thrill of the journey which is known as.........Camryn is a 20 year old girl living in North Carolina.She used to be fun and outgoing.She used to run naked into a freezing lake every winter.But then she started losing everything.She started losing everyone she loves.She lost the love of her life,her boyfriend Ian who was her partner in crime to a car accident.Then she lost her big brother when he got arrested for killing a man during drunk-driving accident.Then her parents got divorced because her father was cheating on her mother.So all she is left with now is...PAIN!
So,after a lot of bump and grinds in their beginning,Andrew decides to accompany Cam in her quest to find herself.He decides to teach her to live in the moment.But then will he too find himself??
OMG, YAWN FEST!!!Meet the heroine: Camryn My hair is the kind of blonde some girls pay a salon a lot of money to have, and it stops just to the middle of my back. I admit I was lucky in the perfect hair department. Cam is the kind of perfect girl men start fights for and best friends get jealous of because their boyfriends have wanted her from 7th grade.I could NOT understand what guys saw in this waste of human cells. I'll refrain from saying more about her, because she's just not worth the eff
My hair is the kind of blonde some girls pay a salon a lot of money to have, and it stops just to the middle of my back.
"And you loved her?" Camryn looks over at me, letting her head fall to the side.
"Yeah, I loved her, but it wasn’t meant to be."I’m wondering why she wants to know this; most girls I know snap into that jealousy-fueled mood-swing stuff that makes me want to cover my nuts when it comes to talking about exes.
*goes to remove all books by this author from to-read list*
Ever.!~Full review to come~Okay, before I get into this review because I am still a bit mind and emotional fucked right now, I have to say....when I first saw the blurb and the cover for this book, I knew...I KNEW I would love this book.
Okay, okay I know, I am babbling too much...like a psycho and y'all are thinking "shut the fuck up and get on with the review dumbass" and so I will before my resolve slips and I break down and fall apart all over again.So we have Camryn Bennett(I wonder if she's related to Josh Bennett??
"I won't have a one-night stand with you, but I will make you come, if you let me."  2.5 stars. HOLD UP A SEC. I THOUGHT THIS WAS ABOUT A ROAD TRIP.(in my best small child voice) "Let's gather 'round the sharing circle, everyone. It's time to talk about The Edge of Never."Ms. Stacia : Well, class. Who's read the assignment? Several students raise their hands.Ms. Stacia : And who enjoyed the book?Several students raise their hands.Ms. Stacia : And who did not enjoy the book?A few shy students r
This might not be the first time where I've mentioned that a story has split personalities, but this might be the most accurate description for The Edge of Never.The first half is a slow build.
I think the friend story line is going to turn some people off from continuing on with the book, and they might end up missing out on something that they would enjoy because of it.The second half is one part WOO HOO SEXY TIME, one part HOLY CRAP, THAT CAN'T BE GOOD, one part HERE'S WHERE WE COMPROMISE AND FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO, and one part HERE COMES THE ANXIETY.
The kind of book that brings out emotions in me that I love to and need to feel.
I get complete joy out of reading books that move my heart and soul.
Honestly this is one of the best books I've read this year...hands down!!!!
After noticing a weird pervy old guy on the bus checking Cameryn out Andrew feels his protective instinct take over and starts to watch out for her.
You fall so in love with the characters that you feel it all, EVERY.LAST.EMOTION!!
It will leave you feeling incredible :)This is a picture of Andrew and Cameryn that Drita Kinic found.
In fact, I kept thinking, "Where is this amazing book everyone keeps raving about?" Maybe everyone's on drugs and I didn't getting any?
I tried to read another book...Andrew and Camryn.
I finally had to go to sleep thinking about nothing, but Andrew and Camryn.
I absolutely did not like the first half, but somehow, someway I was infected and the story completely got under my skin; taking on a new direction that shocked me into submission.
I definitely feel like I had to pay a price to get to the end.
I always thought depression was so overrated, the way people toss the word around (a lot like the L-word that I will never say to a guy again for as long as I live). I never like to see someone hurting, but I admit whenever I heard someone play the depression card, I'd roll my eyes and go about my business.Little did I know that depression is a serious disease. Sometimes you read a book that is so bad, it actually becomes entertaining. After a pretty awful day, I decided to read The Edge of Nev
The kind of guy who has been talking to Camryn all of FIVE MINUTES, and thinks she is his "property" and "territory".
And of course, instead of running for the hills, Camryn thinks that is the SWEETEST, MOST ADORABLE THING EVAAAA!1!!!!1!ONE!Camryn is the sort of cute you want to high five in the face with a shovel.
And OF COURSE the TERRIBLE TRAGEDY is easily resolved in like two pages and everything is fine and dandy, which really begs the question: what was the point in including it in the first place?It was really sickening, actually, how Andrew didn't tell Camryn he had a tumour and might die.
"I think when you fall in love, like true love, it's love for life. All the rest is just experience and delusions."   What an AMAZING, BEAUTIFUL story!!! I have to say, when I started reading The Edge of Never my expectations were high, VERY HIGH...So when the first part started out a bit slow I was beginning to question if I would really find it as good as everyone else... But in the end it completely met up to my expectations and I ABSOLUTELY LOVED it...When we first meet the twenty-year-old
So to everyone who hasn't read it yet, I would say: TAKE A SEAT, BUCKLE UP AND JOIN CAMRYN AND ANDREW ON THEIR JOURNEY THROUGH LIFE !!!
Live in the moment where everything is just right, take your time and limit the bad memories and you'll get wherever it is you're going a lot faster and with less bumps in the road along the way."I definitely loved reading this book and I hope everyone else enjoys it as well!!!Some more pictures that remind me of Camryn and Andrew and their amazing journey:Camryn and AndrewAndrewHis guitarTheir love
Spoiler Free Review -A MUST READ5 BIG BOLD SHINING STARS!!!Genre: New Adult/Contemporary RomanceWARNING: This book isHeart pounding, Toe curling, Panty melting, Tear shedding, Fist flying, Glass table shattering, Thought provoking GREAT! Yeah, it's that good! And if you don't believe me... Read it yourself;) "For the first time in my life, I’ve felt whole, alive, free. You were the missing piece of my soul, the breath in my lungs, the blood in my veins. I think that if past lives are real then w
Spoiler Free Review -A MUST READ5 BIG BOLD SHINING STARS!!!Genre: New Adult/Contemporary RomanceWARNING: This book isHeart pounding, Toe curling, Panty melting, Tear shedding, Fist flying, Glass table shattering, Thought provoking GREAT!
Live in the moment!'This is your life.' ~Inner monologue of CamrynWhen 20yr old Camryn Bennet feels her life is becoming a repeat of the same old things everyday of the week.
Right now, I just want to live in the moment.' ~Inner monologue of AndrewTheir friendship soon becomes a passionate love affair.
Andrew teaches Cam to live in the moment, say what's on her mind, to let down her guard and to try new exciting things.
For the first time in my life, I’ve felt whole, alive, free. You were the missing piece of my soul, the breath in my lungs, the blood in my veins. I think that if past lives are real then we have been lovers in every single one of them. I’ve known you for a short time, but I feel like I’ve known you forever. Hmmmmm..............what?!!....Oh right! Sorry! I was dreaming, I mean thinking! thinking about this really cute, weird guy I had met in a bus.....Hmmmm................Oh! Alright! At first
He's a cool, charming, free guy with green eyes, an unconventional way of thinking, a guitar, a gorgeous body, the moves, the one who'll make you groove......the one whom I met and fell in love with....the one with whom I plan to spend the rest of my--Oh wait!
“Live in the moment,” he says as if making a serious point, “where everything is just right, take your time and limit your bad memories and you’ll get wherever it is you’re going a lot faster and with less bumps in the road along the way.”
So, read the book to know the edge of love, the edge of pain, the edge of life and the edge of never.......In the end......
The heart, although reckless and suicidal and a masochist all on its own, always gets its way." I love this quote from the Edge of Never because it's SO true!
I'm still trying to process all my thoughts and feelings about this book but one thing's for sure, I've NEVER enjoyed getting to know two characters more than I did Andrew and Camryn.
I really do love so much about this story that even with those reservations I discussed in my review, I own this book at least another half star.
I actually sort of liked Cam's strength and Andrew's sweetness.
what did it, was the fact that over what I think was like 3-4 weeks of this road trip, Redmerski finally divulges Andrew Parrish's big secret.
I'm struggling to understand if it's just me in regards to this book, because I see all the raving reviews, but I don't know if it's because people just really love Andrew and that makes everything that bugged me about the plot and such okay or what...
So it is completely okay that you are eyeing Andrew like a piece of meat all the time but as soon as another girl does it she is automatically a slut?
Nice."'Have you ever had a one night-stand?' […] 'Well, I was just wondering…because I've never done something like that.' 'Why not?' he says so casually.
Newsflash: If a girl is comfortable with having one-night stands and exploring her sexuality, she is completely fine to do whatever she wants to do.
And again talk about what makes girls sluts.
Sorry, this book just wasn't for me and pushed all the wrong buttons.
I don't think I can talk about this! I'm TRAUMATIZED and in RAPTUROUS ECSTASY...at the same effing time!! I LOATHE this author!!! I ADORE this author!!!! WHAT THE F***ING F**K WAS THAT I JUST READ?!?!Review to come? Huh. I have no d@mn idea. It's a 5-star book. Hell, it may be a 10-star book. It's on my favorites shelf. Do you SEE all the 4 and 5 star reviews?? There's not another freaking thing I could add to what's already been said. Emotionally exhausted. Must sleep. The end.
He wants time to clear his head so he ends up on the same bus as Cam.“I was taking the long road and Camryn was taking the road to nowhere and it just so happens that they led to the same place”This isn't one of those love stories where the guy and girl are in each other’s arm in the first chapter.
""Live in the moment,where everything is just right,take your time and limit your bad memories and you'llget wherever it is you're going a lot faster and with less bumps in the road along the way"What a beautiful book!!!!I think Im still in shoch from that ending...I didnt see that coming.I really didnt...This book just completely took my breath away.I think I need a paper bag.My heart is hammering against my chest..Camryn Bennett is twenty years old.She lives in a small town with her mother. He
""Live in the moment,where everything is just right,take your time and limit your bad memories and you'llget wherever it is you're going a lot faster and with less bumps in the road along the way"What a beautiful book!!!!I think I´m still in shoch from that ending...I didn´t see that coming.I really didn´t...This book just completely took my breath away.I think I need a paper bag.My heart is hammering against my chest..Camryn Bennett is twenty years old.She lives in a small town with her mother.
I was thanking Andrew for the words that start to come out of his mouth!!!And the things he did with that mouth...
I actually really struggled to rate this book.
The second half was a 5+ star read for me, however, the first half I honestly struggled through.
It was honestly like reading two different books.
And then I hit the halfway mark and I was thanking all things holy for Andrew Parrish and the words that started to come out of his mouth.
And even now I still feel their effect.The last thing I wanted to say is this; if you happen to have picked up this book and are struggling through it in any way, just stick with it.
5 LOVE STORY STARS...Clearing A Spot on my Favorite's Shelf! "I was taking the long road and Camryn was taking the road to nowhere and it just so happens that they led to the same place." I fell in love with a love story! I laughed, I cried and I loved every page of this book. What made me fall in love? It was J.A. Redmerksi's amazing writing which led me to connect, form bonds and fall in love right along with Camryn and Andrew.  ”I think when you fall in love, like true love, it’s love for lif
5 LOVE STORY STARS...Clearing A Spot on my Favorite's Shelf!
What made me fall in love?
It was J.A. Redmerksi's amazing writing which led me to connect, form bonds and fall in love right along with Camryn and Andrew.
”I think when you fall in love, like true love, it’s love for life.
Camryn wants more out of life.
He is written to perfection and a reader can't help but to fall in love with him!
Camryn & Andrew heal each other, they bring out the best in each other and they fall in love, the FOREVER kind.
I miss Camryn and Andrew already!
Just wanted to point that out.Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you about The Edge of Never The Survival Skills You Didn't Know You Were Missing that will turn you into a Special Snowflake like our main character, Cam.Survival Skill #1: Slut-Shame-Yo-Self-Through-Life.
(Princess Special Snowflake's words, who is our main character in The Survival Skills You Didn't Know You Were Missing, which is really obvious.
But only until you meet the tame version of Christian Grey (we will get to him later), which proceeds to change your whole life.Survival Skill #6: The One.A lesson in love, Special Snowflakes-To-Be. You will meet the one in a bus, going to nowhere exactly.
Real life constantly intrudes on their trip with texts and phone calls from their families and friends and despite all this and their own discernible loneliness, the pair forge a mutual dependence during their roadtrip and reignite feelings they had both long attempted to bury.This is a meaningful and moving romance told with unhurried restraint – there’s a pleasing shapelessness to it which allows the story to drift and meander slowly, to give time to the slow development of the romance.
It’s a slow, emotional story that allows the central relationship to build believably before the climactic conclusion
I'm changing my rating from a 5 star to 2. This was my first ever NA read when I was still too young to understand why slut-shamming is wrong, but I remember the emotions! This book makes you feel that's why I still can't rate it lower, but I know that h would piss me off now. I tried to re-read and couldn't.
OH.MY.WORD .... Speechless , absolutely speechless !!!!  My emotions are all over the place with this one !!! I just ... just ... Damn those last few moments .... Uggggghhhh I cant talk .... I mean I cried like a baby ! Fuck !I need to cool off ...  Soo soooo freakin good ! Just awesome !!! Review when I can think of what to write .
J.A. Redmerski you are one freaking brilliant story teller who knows how to capture the heart, make you blush, make you cry *oh how I cried...and I'm still crying* make you gasp out loud, laugh hysterically and pant breathlessly.
Before I continue on with my rant I would love to thank J.A. Redmerski for the opportunity to read this amazing book.
This is a love story like no other and I have to say that going on this road trip with them was the best ride of my life.
You will fall in love and invest your soul into Cam and Andrew and their amazing story.
I think I'm just going to throw together some thoughts and see where it goes.For all the hype with this book, I honestly expected greatness.
The majority of my GR friends like this one so I thought it might be a good read.
After I encountered this quote near the start of this book, I knew it would be a tough read for me.
What the air in other countries feels like on my skin, how the ocean smells, why the sound of rain makes me gasp.Oh shut your face you self-rightous, arrogant ninny.
it feels like AIR).
5 OH, ANDREW!!!
Stars I ALWAYS TRUST MY DAUGHTER!
My 31 year old daughter turns me on to the most fascinating NA books, and this one is no exception.
Never asking what the book is about, trusting she knows what I enjoy, I went in blind.
Within the first few pages, I knew she was right ......
I was going to love it!
I know I am really late to the party reading this one, as it has been out for a number of years.
But, it is one I will never forget!What begins as a friendship between two 'lost soul
I reveled in the journey they were on and simply loved the dialogue between the two as they get to know one another.
I love a sweet and sexy romance!Ms. Redmerski blew me away with her writing skills and style, and dual POV's are always right up my alley.Camryn Bennett, twenty years old, is a dispirited soul, still trying to figure out who she is without Ian, the love of her life, who died way too young in a car accident.
He is also trying to figure out the ways and whys of life.Andrew ......
For me all the elements that made this book tick amazed me and even if a certain time passed after I finish reading it, I was left blow away.I always enjoy when I connect to the story and the characters, a reality push being the one that I need in order to make a story authentic, palpable, believable.Take it as a ride: you are in your comfy bed and in the next second you find yourself on a trip, meeting people and experiencing things like never before."The Edge of Never" was deep and soul searching in the same time.Camryn has suffered terribly in her life.
