https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444383.The_Interpretation_of_Fairy_Tales
Von Franz was apparently Jung's chief disciple, and her work on fairy tales and folklore was central to her continuation of his work.
I enjoyed the way von Franz uses multiple versions of a story to triangulate a strong interpretation.
Many of the symbols she discusses, and the diagramming of fairy tales by number and gender of characters are very useful and fruitful.
The last sections of the book were less intriguing, especially the section where she talks about the female fairy tale heroine, which dripped gender essentialism and was more full than usual of Jungian metaphysical certainties.
I have collected fairy tales for many years. If I had to rate the #1 person who has provided the most insight into these tales it is Marie-Louise Von Franz. These books, and there are a number of them, are fabulously insightful. Each one is hard to put down. I am sad that she has passed on and there will be no more.
This unknown fact is what Jung calls the Self, which is the psychic totality of an individual and also, paradoxically, the regulating center of the collective unconscious.” “We constantly build our lives by our ego decisions, and it is only in old age when one looks back that one sees that the whole thing had a pattern.
I am very interested in the interpretation of fairy tales and mythologies and I think that there is something valuable to learn in doing so.
She often says that such and such part of the fairy tale obviously means this or that and expects you to just accept that it is clear an obvious without any evidence to back this up.
The best impression I get of her method is that if we sit around and think about something hard enough, then the truth will just come to us and everything will be clear.
I just wish she actually was able to provide evidence for things other than just "this obviously means that".
A great book applying Jungian psychology and the ideas of the Self/ego/anima/animus/shadow to fairy tales.
An interesting and useful introduction to the Jungian analysis of fairy tales.
Marie-Louise von Franz was a Jungian scholar, and this book seems like it was written for her peers who had the same in-depth knowledge of Jung's writings.
It's based on Jungian interpretation of story as is seen in this book.
The Lion King, Star Wars, and countless other movies incorporated the elements of the Hero's Journey into their plots, and the most famous script-writing book ever, "Save the Cat!: The Last Book on Screenwriting You'll Ever Need" operationalized it.
"Save the Cat" is such a good book that it's been blamed for the homogenization of American cinema.
As I read, I am considering the implicate order and the explicate order from the work of the a theoretical physicist David Bohm.
What I have in mind is the Appendix 'The enfolding-unfolding universe and consciousness' in Wholeness and the Implicate Order, by David Bohm.
Perhaps the collective unconscious (archetypes, symbols) and collective conscious (stories, individuation) are constituents of the implicate and explicate order.
I gather from Marie-Louise von Franze that the grizzly bear in my dreams is a symbol (implicate order) that lead me end disguising my experience, disguising my potential, disguising the large measure of my influence (explicate order).

This book clearly shows me that my prejudices were a result of my own ignorance.On the other hand, while this book certainly helps a lot when it comes to European fairy tales, it invites the question of to what extent the same principle could apply to other culture.
In China we do not have the problem brought by Enlightenment, though certainly there are some other issues.
maybe need to explore more about the folklore and contemporary research.Got inspired to read this one while with The Hero with a Thousand Faces, will go back to Jung's writing about archetype and maybe also alchemy later on.
Found this a bit of a 'tuff read'...although, von Franz makes an excellent case that 'fairy tales/myths' seem 'foolish to the intellect'...but, if 'engaged' at the 'emotional' level...it's a 'another story'. Have shelved for another time..."To the intellect, all my mythologizing is futile speculation. To the emotions, however, it is a healing and valid activity; it gives existence a glamour which we would not like to do without. Nor is there any good reason why we should." ~ CG Jung
Excellent book by Marie-Louise von Franz about the interpretation of the fairy tales using the Jungian approach. She applies the Principles of the Jungian approach to some fairy tales, demonstrating how to spot and understand the implicit key archetypes, such as the shadow, anima, animus, even the symbolism of numbers. The language is readable and clear! I highly recommend it!!
Oh my god. I have no words. This book is hard, perhaps on par with Freud's writing when it comes to how difficult it is to follow. But, oh my god, I have learnt so much and I will revisit it s many times.
Depois de um certo ponto, a leitura se torna mecânica, e parece que somos forçados a aprender o conteúdo dos capítulos por repetição. Vencido esse obstáculo, porém, vê-se que Franz apresenta contos e observações relevantes tanto para o âmbito acadêmico quanto pessoal, até a última página.
Von Franz is proving to be a lot more useful than Bettelheim, probably because Bettelheim's theories are built on Freud while von Franz is of the Jungian school.
A wonderful and brilliant explication of fairy tales, from the Jungian perspective.
I have read this book for my master thesis and I think it is a perfect psychological interpretation for most fairy tales.
Really interesting book about what fairy tales that explains theories behind them and how they came to be. Maybe not quite so good as zipes but still an interesting read.
Not so much a "self-help" book, although I felt I gained insights into myself and others as individuals, von Franz tells us that these tales and their motifs, coming as they do through the filters of generations of tellers in particular cultures, can help us reflect on and learn about ourselves at a cultural level.
For example, in circling the symbols/motifs in the tales she explores in this book, I have a deeper understanding that our collective unconscious has critical, maybe life-saving information for us...it can tell us how to compensate or balance our outer world.
Two years later, I have learned the valuable lesson of thinking twice before picking up a book that is recommended by somebody earning his doctorate in psychology.
Understanding this book fully would require much more understanding of Jungian theory, but thankfully had a clue, and I did gain some valuable insight; just nothing that I could personally apply myself when reading a fairy tale.
However, I think I'll burrow my way through Jung's "The Archetypes and the Collective Unconscious" as well as "Psychological Types" before giving this book a second read :)
It was an interesting read until we started exploring animus possession by our lady friends in fairy tales.
He's happy to oblige, as my animus really gets the troll skin going like a pesky psychosomatic eczema- a good beating is the only cure.
In addition, nearly threw the book out the window when Von Franz alluded to Hitler's problem as being just a bit of an influx of anima vapors.
My aim was to visualize fairy tales in a new way and to some degree this was a success.
Von Franz has a great mind but she is a product of her time and must be read with a grain of salt.
What a brave woman was Marie Louise Von France. She never discounted her thoughts or ideas, but traveled deeper and deeper in her passion to understand life - both her own and the collective. Her insights into meanings are extraordinary and compassionate. Von France insists that what YOU think matters most of all and she gives us thoughtful tools to understand ourselves. I was richly rewarded for reading The Interpretation of Fairy Tales.Eleanor Cowan, author of : A History of a Pedophile's Wife: Memoir of a Canadian Teacher and Writer
Somehow, I expected the book to give a more general introduction to fairy tale analysis, but what I ended up reading was a very complex Jungian analysis of archetypes and their depictions in fairy tales. The language in which it is written is fairly sophisticated and the fairy tales aren't very well known which sometimes makes it harder to understand what the author is talking about or referring to. Nevertheless, there is a lot of wonderful information in this book that could be of use to anyone interested in fairy tales, Jungian psychology, or literary analysis in the broadest sense.
As it started out, this book was so interesting, however, it got more and more incomprehensible as it went on. Although a good introduction to a Jungian perspective of the fairy tale, it was full of concepts and language that were not for the begining jungian. I admit, i gave up a mere thirty pages before the end because all stories are the story of the self transforming, so going through different tales to review the role of the anima just got to be too much.
I would have given it 5 stars but I wasn't expecting it to be so much like Carl Jungs work, which I very much enjoy. I was just looking for a more detailed exploration into the world of fairy-tales and how they relate to social, moral and religious ideals. But saying thaty Marie-Louise's work was interesting and insightful, her concepts to do with the self and how fairy tales relate to various parts of the human shadow and psyche were detailed enough to make this a worthy purchase.
This is NOT written for the average reader/layperson. That said, if you're looking for an indepth analysis of Jungian approach to interpreting fairy tales, this is probably -exactly- what you're looking for.
A fascinating book and definitely a worthwhile read. If you are interested in mythology and fairy tales in particular, then you will find this book well worth your time. It's approachable, though it does help if you know something of Jungian psychology.
I like Jungian archetypal psychology, but apparently I have to be in the mood for it. I got mostly through this book. I didn't finish it, though, because it is very similar to other books by von Franz.
I didn't like the layout too much, but the book really gets good once you get to the final chapter. The fairy tales, themselves, are really the best tools for conveying the ideas, and reading them, one after the next, amplifies each of the stories effect.
For those interested, there is an Australian author, psychologist and filmmaker who has released an iBook on this very topic. Sarah Gibson: Ways of Interpreting Fairy Tales. May 2014. Beautiful book.
