https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24529123-this-is-where-it-ends
It is also a morbidly intriguing one; the psychology of the people that committed said acts are deeply complex, and not to be taken lightly in exploration.And yet that's what this foolish, belittling, dare I say, stupid little book does.
Like come on, when the bad guy is about to kill you, would this moment really have happened?
Some of my favorite book series in the world are murder mysteries because they are so addictingly macabre in their portrayal of the psychology behind such an act.Tyler's character is as fleshed out as a vegetarian steak.
The psychology of such an act is so complex, and this book fucking misses the point completely.
We're not just fighting for survival - we're fighting for hope and a thousand tomorrows. I am so disappointed. So so disappointed. This Is Where It Ends promises a look at a frightening and very real problem in the U.S. - school shootings - written by a We Need Diverse Books member. It should have been amazing. It could have been amazing if it wasn't dampened by cheap, sensational writing and a black and white sense of victims and villains.School shootings are horrific things that open up so ma
It could have been amazing if it wasn't dampened by cheap, sensational writing and a black and white sense of victims and villains.School shootings are horrific things that open up so many questions.
Right away, the different narrators tell their own sympathy stories - each is hurting, abused, though not really flawed, and diverse (and often victimized because of it).
Documentaries and articles on the subject of school shootings often reveal that the shooters were bullied, victimized or simply unloved and ignored.
It makes me feel very sad that he isn't given more humanity.So much potential to look at an important issue and the psychology of teen shooters is wasted on cheap thrills.
Hm... I'm going to need to think this one over before I share my thoughts.
Initial reaction: I think my reaction to this book can be best summed up in something that I said in the context of the discussion I had with a few of my readerly friends:"I think this might be a classic case of an author who tries to write a story that's bigger than their ability to tell and trying to incorporate too much without any rhyme or reason to it."But I will say this very clearly:This is NOT a fair portrait of a tragedy befalling its cast.This is NOT a good psychological portrayal of the tough themes and choices the book touches upon in the scheme of its events.This is ABSOLUTELY NOT a good portrayal of diversity, it's more of a offending reference of "otherness" and bland identity than anything else.
The subject matter, focusing on a school shooting, is definitely topical and important.
Which brings me to my main issue with this book, it lacked the intense emotion I felt it should have had for such serious subject matter.
I felt like the writing was just too casual for the topic and thus, it didn't give me the intensity I wanted.
The plot kept me going through the book, as the story had such tension to it.
I think, had I been more aware of the actual plot of the book as opposed to just knowing "it's about a school shooting," I probably would have been more prepared to read it with an unbiased mind.It seemed that the majority of this story actually occurs through flashbacks (which is another personal book pet-peeve of mine), and the present plot was fairly static, in my opinion, until about 70-80% of the way through the book.
So I prematurely imagined this book would be a really elaborate, action filled novel, when it is, in my opinion, ENTIRELY character based.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Here’s another book I read nearly a month ago and never reviewed. This time it wasn’t because I’m lazy even though I am, it’s because I feel bad giving this one a negative review. But a negative review is what I must give when I read a book about a “Columbine” type school shooting and . . . . This Is Where It Ends was easily my most anticipated YA contained in the BuzzBooks sneak preview. I requested it immediately and was thrilled to
But a negative review is what I must give when I read a book about a “Columbine” type school shooting and .
I’m all for books having a lot more diversity when it comes to characters, but don’t set it in a town where 80% of the population is white .
So bottom line is This Is Where It Ends was a book with a lot of potential (and a most excellent cover) that wound up being nothing special.
I read that one back before I started reviewing, but Rose wrote a real good one : )ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
TIWIE has a lot of things I'm very excited about, like queer girl main characters. And PoC main characters. And tragedy. And courage. And hope. And at least one wholly unintended Les Misérables reference. I'll share more information when I can, but feel free to ask me any questions. And thank you for sharing my excitement! <3
It's the first book I've read about a school shooting, and it was just as horrifying and jarring as you would expect.
A lot of the time I was grappling for details, not sure what was going on or who was who.
The characters themselves didn't have a lot of time to be fleshed out, and by the end of this book, I didn't find myself particularly attached to them.
This book has very sensitive and violent material so I wouldn't recommend it for everyone, but it was absolutely crazy and is such a horrible reality that I think it's an important read if you can get your hands on it, even though the execution of it was shaky.
This book is told from the perspectives of four of the characters (Claire, Tomas, Sylvia, Autumn) in this book, spanning a 54-minute period after shots ring out at their school.Even though, we are shown the characters, I do not feel as if I was given enough information so that I cared for these characters, the characters all felt flat to me.
A book about school shootings should evoke emotions and evoke fear.
There were good parts of this book and I appreciated the diverseness of the characters, I just felt it was lacking in character development, and wanted more.
It highlights one day in the life of a public high school where students, having just finished listening to a speech by the principal, get up to leave the auditorium.
This story has a lot of characters acting as protagonists, as Nijkamp does her best to show the effect of that day on as many students as possible.
The characters are strong and developed, and I love how Nijkamp spends a bit of time focusing on the shooter as well and the choices that brought him to the auditorium that day.
The story is a non-stop, gripping thrill ride that I did not want to end.
I didn't connect with all of the characters but I still enjoyed the story.
The story is told through several different POV.
We learn a few things about the different kids through their thoughts of things that happened in the past.
But even still this book didn't grab me like I thought it would.
I gave it three stars because I could feel the terror everyone went through and I felt really bad for everyone going through what happened.
I'm just going to leave to the non connection I had to anyone in the story.
DNF about 1/3 of the way through. This book is just..... shallow. Superficial. Not once did I connect to a single character. They all felt like caricatures of real people instead of relatable.I can see what the author was trying to do with the subject and having a more diverse character base, but it just didn't work.
I'm numb.I can’t even begin to describe the whirlwind that is in my head and heart after finishing this book.
It’s a very conflicting feeling: wanting to read, but fearing what you’ll find written on the next page.
I think it’s so incredibly difficult to write about a tragedy like this.
It’s why this is a you-either-love-it-or-hate-it book.
I loved how it was written, I loved the characters and I think the author did a wonderful job developing them (given the fact that everything takes place in less than an hour, although we get a lot of flashbacks as well), I felt connected to them and to their story.
This is going to be a controversial book.
A teenager with a gun, shoots up a school filled with students.
Told over the span of 54 harrowing minutes from four different perspectives, terror reigns as one student's calculated revenge turns into the ultimate game of survival.
I was initially skeptical of the premise of This Is Where It Ends, books with multiple POVs usually doesn’t work well for me.
The fluidity of the plot and the character’s tone is so authentic.This book is so delicate.
So instead, ill bullet proof the selling points.This book also captures how diverse the world we live in.
Disappointment after disappointment, it seems these days. An incredibly unfair, black and white portrayal of a school shooting. Had so much potential *sighs*Full review to come.
So good. Many feels happening right now.

My biggest problems with the book were narrative choices that prevented me from getting to know and care about the book's characters/potential victims.
Real-time narration can be very gripping (it's why I loved the show 24) and might seem a natural choice for a book like this, except that it typically results in a story that's all adrenaline and action.
I think that, given the POV choice, the shooter might have been included as one of the narrators so we'd get to know a little more about him and his motivations, which ended up seeming pretty cookie-cutter.
I love, love, love this cover! Every time I see it I have to pause and look at it.School shootings, unfortunately, have become all too familiar. A little piece of my heart breaks off each time I hear about another one. This is a good moment by moment account told by four narrators. The relationship between the shooter and his sister was especially good and suspenseful. Thank you Marieke Nijkamp for taking on a harrowing subject. It will resonate with the YA audience.
Even when my heart is in my throat and I'm turning pages as fast as I can without cutting myself, I've got that eye for Muslim representation.I found myself getting very reluctantly attached to all the teens, but Fareed in particular had me closing my eyes and telepathically wiring messages to Marieke's brain: Marieke, I love you.
But not that evil.)I think the thing that hit me the hardest about This Is Where It Ends is that skillful blend of tragedy and hope, darkness and light.
Nothing is going to be okay.Newtown happened.
5 Words: Not my cup of tea.I had really been looking forward to this one.
There was so much hype, I was seeing it everywhere, I'd heard good things...But.I knew it wasn't looking so good when I was ready to DNF by the second chapter.
Up until then it was just dull and confusing.
But then it picked up a little, started to get more interesting...
And quickly trailed back to just dull and confusing.I found the characters to be pretty one-dimensional.
There was a lot of telling, very little showing and a one-voice-fits-all cast of characters.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to SOURCEBOOKS Fire and NetGalley.)  “If you cooperate, some of you might go home today. All you have to do is listen carefully to what I’m saying. No screaming, no running, no phones, and certainly no attempting to disarm me. Today, you’ll all listen.”  This book was pretty shocking, mainly because this sort of thing happens in real life to real people.I had a bit of a hard time keeping track of the chara
Today, you’ll all listen.”
This book was pretty shocking, mainly because this sort of thing happens in real life to real people.I had a bit of a hard time keeping track of the characters in this book because there were so many of them!
This kind of thing unfortunately happens to real people in real life, and writing a fictional book about something that kills people just seems a bit wrong.
I would hate for someone to do this sort of thing in real life after reading this book.
I wasn't sure how I wanted to rate this book. For such a strong, emotional topic -  the book was very shallow  in my opinion. It lacked depth and I had a hard time connecting to the characters. With my own community suffering through a devastating school shooting it just seemed like there was so much more that could have been done in this book. Simply, put it was disappointing. In a time when this is unfortunately a very real issue - this book seemed to trivialize. There was just no depth to it for me.
Although I did find the book very good, I found that the ending ended very quickly. Without giving anything away, it was a book that was hard to put down and an exciting read where you wanted to know "What's going to happen next!"
*** GIVEAWAY: You have the opportunity to win "This Is Where It Ends" if you enter the giveaway in the next 8 days! To learn more, click here. *** Read on the WondrousBooks blog. I'm really sad to write this review. Out of all of the books that I've ever requested on NetGalley, Everything, Everything and This Is Where It Ends were the two I was most hopeful about. I was honestly so excited to receive this book and I went through quite the disappointment reading it.The theme of the book, although
It's entirely too often that we hear about school shootings and it won't ever become less of a tragedy.What put me off the most about This Is Where It Ends is that the author, realizing that the theme of the book is going to touch the readers deeply, is reaching out in a very unpleasant way.
But there were too many paragraphs, especially at the end of each chapter, which felt like shameless self-promotion.Other than that, I couldn't really feel a connection to the characters.
I especially disliked Sylv and Autumn.On the other hand we didn't really learn all that much about the characters' actual motivation.
5/5 STARS!!!What it is about!This book is a take on real-life school shootings.
It is a light read and can lack description but that adds to the book as we hop through POV's and move forward through the shooting.
I read this late into the night and suffered through many different emotions this book entails.
I loved the smaller characters that don't have POV's, we got to see them through the eyes of multiple people and with each view, they were still suffering.
School-shootings are an absolute tragedy and horrific events already, but through reading this it makes me an infinite times more devastated and awestruck at the violence and death/injuries.
So many school shootings, one after another, so this book is a timely one.
I cared very much about these high school kids, wanted to get an understanding and wondered how the author would portray the shooter and the motivations of said perpetrator.
For the most part I thought she did this very well.
Narrated by four different students, inside and outside the school, aided by twitter feeds and flashbacks, we get a varied perspective as well as each of their stories.
My only complaint was how the police were portrayed.
But this is a story, so..........ARc from Netgalley.
Are the contents of this book important? Yeah.Was it executed in a way that, for me, showcased this importance? Errrrrguhhhhhmmm...can't say.-- Full review pending.Edited Jan 8, 2016:[See the full review at thoughts and afterthoughts.] Rating: 1.5/5 Should this book be picked up? the tl;dr review: – A timely novel giving life to social circles shared by school shooters. However, the shooter isn’t given a voice– Multi POV narrative; uses twitter, blog posts, flashblacks– Set in Alabama and raises
However, the shooter isn’t given a voice– Multi POV narrative; uses twitter, blog posts, flashblacks– Set in Alabama and raises questions per the demographics and the representation of diverse inclusion of the physically disabled, LGBTQIA+, cultural (Spanish, Middle Eastern), mentally ill– Some scenes overdramatized with cinematic flair– Lacking motivation for the shooter and doesn’t really provide solid reasons as to why
(view spoiler)[Afterthoughts:PremiseWhen an assembly ends at Opportunity High, students make like bandits to the exit; some hoping to get a quick smoke in before the next class, others wishing to linger with their friends.
