https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/487479.The_Castle_of_Adventure
The first of the "Adventure" series that I read. I remember loving Kiki the parrot, and Philip's endless procession of exotic pets.
I also really liked how each of the children had character and weren’t all perfect.
They were like real kids, sometimes having arguments, but also working together very well.
The plot is very original and the book sucks you in at the end of each chapter, making it hard to stop reading.
Cons: I felt like it did get a bit long for 2 or 3 chapters towards the end.
But those cons didn’t change the way I like the book and I’m very glad I read it and I totally recommend you reading it.
I used to read a lot of Enid Blyton as a child and I've decided to go back and revisit them! I do remember reading this series but I don't think I read many of them, not this one anyway I don't think. I think this is my favourite series out of the sort of childrens' mystery genre. I loved this one! It just puts a smile on my face and really look forward to picking it up. I can't wait to read more of this series.
Good old Enid, a few simple words go a long way! A bit dated, but a still a good kiddies adventure. Read for a toppler challenge... The team needed a book about a castle.
I love all books by Enid Blyton.
I first read this book about 35 years ago.
I still love it 35 years hence.
The boldness of the children to explore things on their own, the courage to enter a castle which looked scary and overgrown, and their adventurous spirt all fascinated me as a child and still do.
For those were the good old days , Children in Enid Blyton's books were let free to grow up on their own, with a limited level of guidance and support from their parents.
I think this book is really good because every thing is so excising and adventurous.
I that's the kind of book I like.
As well in this book it explains to different kind of people poor and rich because in this book there is a girl and she went to the rich persons house and there mother said she had to have a bath and some new clothes,shoes.So after she'd had the bath the poor person put the shoes around her neck thinking it was a necklace.
That's what I mean by poor and rich are different.
This has become my new favorite series of the Enid Blyton mysteries. I won't say much about the story. You'll have to read it. Kiki the parrot is one of my absolute favorites, as well as Philip and his "pets". Inspector Cunningham, aka Bill "Smuggs" was also another favorite, and I was glad to discover his character was used in the other books, too.
---kenapa juga bikin percobaan top secret gitu di rumah pertanian yg keamanannya cuma pagar kawat?--- :-P*baca free di aplikasi bookmate*
The idea is rather similar to the Famous Five (a group of children having thrilling adventures), but the danger here seems more real, the situations grittier and a bit more "realistic" (as far as a group of children getting into so many amazing adventures can be realistic), the bad guys scarier.This second book in the Adventure series is also very entertaining thriller for children.
The courage and adventurous spirit of the children, the comics relief provided by Kiki the parrot and by Philip's collection of pets, and the tension of the plot, with the children locked up by the bad guys in an old castle, with no way to escape, make this an excellent story for young readers.
I am hoping my review would inspire someone who has not read this one to pick up and read and enjoy.I liked this story better than Island of Adventure because here the children remain inside the Castle of Adventure for more days.
Like the stories about Isle of Gloom, there are stories about a wicked old man who used to live in the castle, keep prisoners and torture them.There is the usual Comic relief of Kiki making her funny remarks that sometime make sense in a funny way.
Real world criminals would kill without slightest compunctions and going to lonely places like castle and islands of adventure carries a great risk of running into sexual perverts.
Si Kiki di sini memang masih cerewet. Tapi tunggu sampai di beberapa buku selanjutnya. Sungguh tak terkira cerewetnya. Dalam petualangan kali ini, Jack berhasil melihat burung Rajawali yang sudah hampir punah keadaannya pada waktu itu. Dengan berbekal kamera yang selalu dibawanya, Jack berusaha menghabiskan waktu meski hujan, mendekat dan memotret sarang burung Rajawali yang ternyata sangat besar dan dalam. Seperti biasa, di balik keinginan Jack untuk melihat burung yang langka itu, ada petualangan menanti mereka.
Another great book in the Adventure series. The second adventure takes the children to a Castle, but just want is happening in the mysterious castle. Before the children can say adventure they are involved in one! When Jack stays the night in the castle he stumbles upon men up to no good. Can the children escape, the Castle of Adventure.
This book I also read as a very young reader. (I liked castles and adventure.) Acquired a 1952 edition of this book and re read it. Again, enjoyed the flashbacks experienced as I progressed through the story. Reliving my childhood?
its a awesome book.................
I loved this book and will read it again.
Excellent. One of the best Enid Blyton books I've read.
me lo leí hace mucho pero es uno de mis libros favoritos de la infancia. Fue mi impulso a leer libros de "miedo". Aunque a veces es un poco aburrido (cosa típica de esta autora)
It was great! I loved it!
Os aventureiros "reincidentes" não ficam em nada atrás aos personagens mais populares da autora (da séries dos cinco, e dos sete), e os dois "novos", acrescem à história um colorido sem a qual esta aventura não seria a mesma.Não querendo desvendar pormenores da história, gostaria apenas de voltar a afirmar que me parece que este livro, poderá ser ainda de enorme interesse para os mais novos de hoje, tal como foram para mim, na minha infância.
I thought the situation was a bit too contrived (which I know is saying something where this author is concerned), I tend to dislike tag-alongs (in this case Tassie) and I continue to find Bill annoying.Even so, this is a gripping and atmospheric adventure story, and I thought the claustrophobic environment was particularly effective.
Jack and Philip are more developed than any other two boys together in an Enid Blyton adventure that I know of (which is nearly all of them, but not quite yet); unfortunately this leaves little room for the girls, but at least Dinah shows some grit for as long as she's in the story.Kiki, of course, is a rare example of a strong female presence in a Blyton novel outside the school stories.
Four children are holidaying near a broken down, shut-up castle in Wales, which turns out to be the center of nefarious activities.
What they don't know about, until it's too late, is the bad guys nesting under the castle.The exciting "Adventure" series is a children's classic.
CASTLE, second in the series, was written in 1946, so it's historical for today's children, as well.
The main characters are brothers and sisters Jack and Lucy-Ann, and Philip and Dinah.
Philip attracts animals wherever he goes, and Blyton makes the animals an active part of her plots and character dynamics.The four children together are a permanently engaging group -- you should introduce your children to them.
This is the second book in the series and my 10 year old and I read it together.
But for my adult readers there are perhaps other books to read.
You won't be upset if you do pick up this book to read though.
It is old school in the sense that kids get to wander free and even spend the night in the old castle.
If you are a fan of free range kids and a good mystery that is (and this a good thing) slow to develop.
One of my childhood favourites, I have always loved Enid Blyton and the Adventure series has always been a great fave of mine.
Reliving childhood innocence I suppose.
These are of course light and easy reads, the children are fun and curious people who find adventures where ever they go.I sometimes wish that Enid has written more thoroughly on Bill and Mrs Mannering over the years but we do get some lovely hints through the series of growth for them.Very much recommended to young readers and for all those like me who wish to relive their childhood.28 April 2018: Listened to audiobook version, narrated nicely and told rather excitingly, took me back to my youth.
The second in the Enid Blyton Adventure series this time the story centres around a castle.
The timeline is the following summer brother and sister Philip and Dinah, Jack and Lucy-Ann and parrot Kiki are now living at Spring Cottage by the sea.
And it is a cracking good story, lots of nice detail - "He crouched down like a toad against the earth." Last time Jack was searching for the Great Auk this time it's Eagles.
A really good follow up to the first adventure with enough new elements to keep it interesting.
Another old childhood favorite.
and *headdesk* *facepalm* *cringe* …and SRSLY!!!
Of the many, many cringeworthy moments found all over the book, all I'm going to mention/ask is silver doesn't rust, right?
It tarnishes, right?
This one doesn't stand the test of time.
Note even close.** But in true Blyton tradition, it made me hungry.
(Also, I read it in Finnish, and they haven't updated the language at all.
Charmingly archaic, it was.) **But…the reread did give me the warm fuzzies because I have such happy memories tied to these books, so I didn't totally hate the experience.
The four children and their mother stays near Wales for their summer holidays in the mountain cottage.
The curious children came to know about the a Castle nearby and wishes to explore it.
With the help of a mountain girl who was wild and knows all routes.
when they entered the Castle Peter founds an eagle nest and wishes to stay there and explore it.
They found some antisocial group was using that castle as hiding place and were caught.
They were caught but Peter manages to escape.
Then with the help of the Bill the other three are rescued.
This is one of my absolute favourite Enid Blyton adventure stories.
The castle itself is the perfect setting for an adventure like this, in terms of the brooding atmosphere surrounding it as well as the wonderful physical locations (such as the fusty, musty, dusty old rooms, the not-quite-unused kitchen and, of course, the hidden room) it brings to the story.The nesting eagles are some of the best used and most vividly realised "guest-animals" in this series.
The regular characters, meanwhile, are just as delightfully adventurous and unflappably stoical in the face of danger as they were in the first book.This is quite simply a first class children's adventure story.
A rip-roaring mystery adventure with suspected spooks in the castle that is visited by four friends, their parrot, a friendly fox and a gypsy girl. Lots of mysterious goings on and the children get locked in the spooky place with, semmingly no hope of escape.But that is not the case as, with the help of some older, and wiser friends, one of them manages to get out and bring help so that the mystery is eventually solved but not before lots of heartache for the children.A pleasant out of the ordinary read, ideal for a change of pace and setting.
Does anyone remember the Bobbsey Twins? Reminiscent of them, I absolutely loved this book. The horrid thing is,my 9 yr old son hated it! I had a hard time figuring that out and can only attribute it to not enough video, and too many words.As for us "old" people, I think this book is great! It's written for kids but is a great adventure story that adults will love as well. Its not easy or cheesy, and it draws you in.I hope to try again with my son another year!
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Adventure Series is 8 books long) Features 4 friends who fall into adventures with counterfeiters, gunrunners, treasure hunters and the like. Jack, Philip, Diana, and Lucy-Anne and their crazy talking parrot, KIKI, are a lot of fun to follow through their adventures... This series is top notch reading... introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
