https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32139.The_Deeds_of_the_Disturber
The difficulty with reviewing a series is finding something new to say with each book.
Failing that can I just say that all the things I like are still there in this fifth book about Amelia Peabody.* Amelia is still a credit to womankind and still subject to self delusion.* Ramses remains my favourite character by far and is still never allowed to finish a sentence.* The cat Bastet is sadly absent for most of the book but she has much more important issues on her mind.There are some different things - this book takes place in London for example, far away from the usual pyramids and desert.
And there are some new things - Gargery the butler was marvellous.
The fifth episode in the Egyptian Mystery investigations of Amelia Peabody.What sets this volume apart from the usual formula of the family going for excavations of ancient tombs in the desert is the movement of the action to London, where bodies are starting to crop up around the British Museum and its latest mummy exhibit.
I plan to continue reading the adventures of Amelia, Emerson and Ramses.
As if that wasn’t bad enough she follows it up with something as ignorant as a statement that says Indian women were “misguided” by misogyny who “fought to fling themselves into the funeral pyres of their bigamous husbands” and that their problems were resolvable only by the “enlightened British laws.” This screams to me of ignorance and white superiority complex.I didn’t expect this kind of air of superiority coming from Amelia Peabody.
"Never, I venture to say, has there been a more suitable ambience for eerie adventure than the reeking murky muddy streets of dear old London..."I love Amelia Peabody. I especially love Barbara Rosenblat, the distinguished english voice of Amelia. She can (and does) inject innuendo, sarcasm, indignation or whatever she wants into any sentence. The plots are good, but I read for the characters. Amelia, whose "brain works to swiftly to be organized", her darling Emerson that "magnificent specimen of manhood" and their darling, precocious boy Ramses never fail to entertain.
It's starting to feel like I'm reading the same novel over and over again.
The Emerson-Peabody family is subjected to kidnappings, beatings, bullets and threatening letters; ancient artifacts appear and disappear; there are young lovers in distress; there's a supposedly cursed mummy; and Ramses is still never allowed to finish a sentence.The setting is at least different this time: Amelia and family are in London.
They are highly unsuited for living in London, which they realize.
The mystery is very weak, but the characters are a lot of fun.For whatever reason I was annoyed by the contrived references to the previous novels, complete with footnotes giving the titles.
One of my favorites in the series! The Emersons are in England and crime finds them even through the fog of London, this time starting with a death at the British Museum and a weird Ancient Egyptian Priest impersonator. On top of that, Amelia foolishly agreed to take in the execrable children of her awful brother while their mother recovers from illness, and Ramses seems unhappy. This book is crazily vivid in my memory but Barbara Rosenblat makes it even better. Hurrah for Inter-Library Loan and no more attempts to listen to a sub-par reader.
My favorite in the series thus far!
I haven't read any of Elizabeth Peters books for a long time and I really enjoyed this one.
As the book proceeds, the boy and girl make Ramses life miserable and the reader is waiting desperately for Amelia to see through them.The mystery centers around some murders happening at the British Museum.
After some trips to an opium den and a country manor house, Peabody and Emerson manage to get to the bottom of the mystery and, with Ramses help, unmask the killer.Amelia Peabody Emerson is one of those characters that seem to take on a life of their own.
This book is definitely a change of pace for Peabody and Emerson.
Instead of being set in Egypt, like the first four books in the series, this one takes place in London, though the mystery still centers around Egyptology.Ramses became infinitely more interesting to me in this book.
Before he was a fun sort of curiosity, but now i'm taking him much more seriously as a character.
Are horrid.I particularly liked the insertion of jealously on the part of both Peabody and Emerson.
It's about time we had a little conflict in their otherwise fantastic relationship, heh.The mystery itself was great; I actually gasped when the villain was revealed.
My love for the narrative voice of Amelia Peabody grows with every book I read. When I grow up, I'd quite like to be her, please.
I am informed by a person no less acquainted with the subject than my dear mother that Amelia's emotions throughout this novel are entirely understandable to a married person.
Being an easily bored, stubborn, extremely single young person...I found her irritating enough to take a 4.5 star mystery and drop it to 3.
Come on can she really be that dense?
She's almost as annoying as Emerson when he starts getting jealous.
Now that he's "lost" his annoying lisp-thing his ramblings are amusing and his actions are awesome.
It was nice to have the mystery in England instead of Egypt.
Another good installment in the adventures of Peabody, Emerson, & Ramses.
Though, I will say I didn’t enjoy this one quite as much as the others; it seems that Peabody & crew are strongest in Egypt.
I did like watching Ramses figure out how to deal with his awful cousins.
But the jealousy subplot that played out between Peabody & Emerson felt a bit forced & out of character for both-just a play into the traditional romantic storylines that doesn’t fit with this very untraditional couple.
So overall a good story, but not up to the usual standard of the series.
This was probably my least favorite that I've read (well, listened to) so far. Marital Suspicion is one of my least favorite tropes, and Percy and Violet made me want to strangle them. But the climax of this novel is so hilarious that it almost totally makes up for it, I absolutely adore Gargery, and Kevin O'Connell (one of my absolute favorites) is his usual delightful and dogged self. (Also I cannot explain why, but I am tickled that he calls her "Mrs. E." It kills me.)
DNF at 15%. I loved the first few books in this series but I can’t do with the constant negativity around fat characters. Ways to describe a character: describe them and move ON. If you keep going back every time this character enters and you mention their fatness every SINGLE time in a negative tone, then that’s body shaming plain and simple. I get having fat bad/evil characters. But why is it so frequent? Why does every time that character gets mentioned, their weight is also mentioned? I’m TIRED of it.
DNF at 8% I’m done with this series. The first book was fresh (if a little crazy with older style themes, but it felt like a new book) but each subsequent book has had the same damn storyline, the same poor villains and the same annoying language style. I don’t want to read another 15 books that are repeating shadows of the former.
Further adding to their troubles is their old "friend" the journalist O'Connell as well as Amelia's niece and nephew, whom she unwittingly agrees to care for.
With Amelia's rising jealousy of Emerson's past life and the escalation of bizarre incidents at the museum, it's no wonder that soon there's a few kidnappings and imprisonments and recreations of Egyptian rituals.
Oh, I would so like that, the little curly haired annoyance would need therapy for years.Next, Emerson and Amelia's love life.
Niece and nephew, check, love life, check, jealousy, check, Hellfire club, check.
I really liked the London setting for this story. It worked really well, and seeing Peabody and Emerson against a background I'm more familiar with added an extra dimension to the story.
It kept the same formula as the previous books--a quirky Victorian-esque narrative tone, a supposed curse, a young couple in love, a precocious Ramses, and humorous banter between Emerson and Peabody.
The mystery was also the most complex of the series so far--I tried to figure it out, but the twists and turns kept me turning pages.
The backstories of Peabody and Emerson figured more prominently in this book as well.
Much as I enjoy the predictable stylistic elements of this series, I was pleasantly surprised to see all these new elements woven into this book.As always, enough backstory is provided at the beginning to make this a stand-alone novel--but I love the premise of this series and prefer to read each book as a part of it.
3 years agoThe mystery in this outing of Peters' series about the intrepid Emerson family was most interesting, challenging and enjoyable.
There was plenty of opportunity to attempt to solve the murders, should you be so inclined.I myself am more engaged in soaking up the continuing affectionate rivalry between Amelia and Emerson, and, to a lesser extent, Amelia and her precocious [really, could he be ANYTHING else, given whom his parents are?!] son Ramses.
This series continues to hold my interest and entertain me and make me laugh!
This book in the Amelia Peabody series begins as the family leaves Egypt from an escavation season and returns home to England.
The children do not get along well with Ramses and their interactions and scuffles along with Ramses experiments add to the tension of the story.
A mummy, murders, Scotland Yard, opium den, newspaper reporters, and household servants all play parts in the story.
Again, young Ramses w assistance from the household staff rescue his parents and the Inspector.
It is discovered that the mother of the neice and nephew has been at home all this time and her children are promptly returned to her.
Excellent! Another very enjoyable tale! This escapade takes place in London. Amelia's description of Victorian London at the height of the industrial revolution is mournful. The reader can't help flinching at the lingering black soot emitted by all the factories. This particular mystery was a fun break from the familiar Egyptian romps. The wife/husband sleuthing becomes more intricate with each passing tale. Amelia and Emerson's banter while serious in nature, is quite humorous in its delivery. Peters has as a phenomenal grasp of the English language and her delivery is both beautiful and artistic.
This story takes place in London; but the background is still everything Egyptian.
Amelia is still a loose cannon in the investigation, but usually comes to the right solution.
Emerson is her anchor and usually comes to the right solution independently of Amelia.
In the meantime, Amelia still has time to match make and be a Mama to Ramses...and in this story to her brother's two children.
This is #5 and she has written 19 of these stories.
An aside: Ms. Peters definitely found her writing niche with Amelia.
I did not like any other her other heroines and their stories.
Amelia's long-suffering son, Ramses, finally gets some redemption in this novel.
She always assumes the worst of him when he often is the most observant member of the household and most aware of what's going on.
Perhaps Amelia will be slower to judgment of Ramses in the future.
This novel keeps them in England for the summer and was quite interesting with Egyptian lore abounding but not the archaeological focus of summers at the diggings.
Emerson's past catches up with him and causes some jealousy for Amelia.
Another fun novel with her interesting views of life and others as she narrates the story.
Sometimes when a series changes locale the book is disappointing, but I didn't feel that way about this one.
I think the change from Egypt to London was actually good for the series.
She actually experiences some jealousy of Emerson and Ramses runs into some trouble with visiting cousins.
So everyone in the family isn't always feeling as superior as usual - though nothing shakes them for long.
:)NB - I really like this series in audio, and though both narrators are good I prefer Barbara Rosenblat because she makes Emerson sound just right.
This one is a bit of an "Oh come now" at times.
From Amelia deciding to keep children "just to improve their behavior" (by exposure to her I suppose) and a trap and escape worthy of a James Bond movie.Still, a three, it's well written and I've noted before, I didn't "really" enjoy any of these a great deal, but I was driving A LOT, and preferred audio books to radio all the time.
I often listened to books that I might not have picked up and put time into reading.
Well written, some will like it much better than I.
Another hilarious installment in the adventures of the Emerson family - Amelia, Radcliffe and... Ramses. Home in England for a change, they handle many things simultaneously: annoying relatives, murders at the British museum and a bit of matchmaking between a young newswoman, Miss Minton (who could be a younger sister to Amelia) and the ever zealous newspaperman Mr. Kevin O'Connell. Masked aristocrats, orgies and pagan rituals abound! Loved every minute on audio! 4/5http://ktleyed.blogspot.com/2011/12/d...
Peabody and Emerson solve a mystery entirely in Britain. The loss of the exotic Egypt in this book was detrimental to the story -- it's like losing a character. I found myself missing narration by Barbara Rosenblat, who did most of the previous books in this series that I have listened to. Rosenblat's narration of the exasperated Peabody really defines the character for me. Interesting in a sitcom-like way, but not up to the level of the earlier ones.
I thought I would enjoy the Victorian voice of Amelia Peabody, but I found it tedious and repetitive. Emerson comes off to me as annoying and childish with his uncontrollable rages, and Peabody seems SO cold toward her son. The story took a long time to develop and sometimes seems misfocused: long descriptions of conversations while some action scenes were summed up in two or three sentences. I had to force myself to finish it.
The first tiny stumble in the series was not so serious as to knock off a star on the rating. Amelia, Emerson and Ramses are characters I enjoy immensely. But this story took place completely in England and I did miss the setting of Egypt. And Amelia's extended family are so awful, I was practically cringing each time any of them appeared in a scene.
So wonderfully Victorian and so brilliantly British that you would be quite forgiven for not realising the book was written by an American in the late 80s. The 1980s, that is. (The series was published from 1975 to 2006.) I think verbose little Ramses is my new favourite fictional character. (Sorry, Mr Darcy.)
