https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556637.A_Celtic_Miscellany
This book has problems that made it nowhere near as worthwhile as I'd hoped:First, it's full of fragments, except where the wholes are very short, anyway. Excerpts just make me want to see the full thing, to get the context and story properly. Second, there's poetry in here, but it's translated as prose. Whenever someone says, "It's not possible to translate poetry," they really mean, "I'm not up to the task but my ego won't allow me to admit it."One does get a flavour of the literatures (all six Celtic languages) but it forever left me wanting more or better.
This book is a must for all those who want to immerse themselves into the world of the Celtic literature, so distant yet, in certain aspects, so close to us. Divided into ten sections, it shows us that the Celtic nations (Irish, Scottish Gaelic, Welsh, Cornish, Breton and Manx) were the masters of the Word(s).
I also like the way Celtic style handles description in general, adventure and imagination, so the sections about 'Description' and 'Celtic Magic' were enjoyable too.- Apart from a selection of epic and magical content in the 'Epics' and 'Celtic Magic' sections, though, there wasn't a lot of mythological content in this anthology (that's all right, though, because I already have a handful of Celtic mythology books).+1 The anthology includes a couple of poems and excerpts written by women and a small handful of poems from the point of view of women.
An interesting collection but I wish they hadn't cut so much out. There are frequently entries to things like the Mabinogion, which I can get in a full text edition. I would have preferred more obscure texts that weren't available in other English editions.
Though these words date from the 8th century and beyond, the poetry is fresh, lyrical and frankly fascinating.
I read A Celtic Miscellany recently, which is a collection of Welsh, Irish and Scottish Gaelic, Cornish, Breton, and Manx poetry and prose selected and translated by Kenneth Hurlstone Jackson.
There is nothing between him and me tonight but earth and coffin and shroud; I have been further many a time, but never with a heavier heart."–Welsh; traditional verses; seventeenth century?Some of it is wryly entertaining:"The world has laid low, and the wind blows away like ashes Alexander, Caesar, and all who were in their trust; grass-grown is Tara, and see Troy now how it is–and the English themselves, perhaps they too will pass!"–Irish; author unknown; seventeenth-eighteenth century.Granted, some of it is dull too, and I was disappointed that so many of the selections were fairly modern (sixteenth through eighteenth centuries) when I was hoping for more of the older, harder-to-find Celtic poetry of the first thousand years AD.
I always want to like Celtic writing more than I do, but then that tends to be true for most medieval lit, the sagas being the only true exception. Like much of Penguin's medieval publications, the translation is old but serviceable. If you can get something better, do, but Penguin is there for all of us that don't have ready access to more accademic tomes.
I bought this to read something originally written in Cornish and was disappointed at the poor representation of that language. Two extracts against loads from Wales, Scotland and Ireland. I guess it serves the Cornish right for not writing anything more interesting but it still seems harsh.
Beautiful collection of prose and poetry and wisdom from the Celtic world, with a hefty dose of Irish material. A wonderful addition to my bookshelf.
Truly a miscellany, with a mix of poems and stories drawn from all across the Celtic world, from the earliest Middle Ages right into the 18th century.
A very interesting compilation about Celtic literature in its six languages. As a compilation some of the stories/poems are better than others, but a very interesting book nonetheless.
This book has many excerpts of longer works in Celtic literature, so it was a nice taste of many different works. Now to read the full texts. :)
I just couldn't maintain interest in this.
