https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21838.The_Brotherhood_of_the_Rose
Soon Saul (Romulus) joins them.
Eliot is also part of a national coalition of spies that formed a system called the Abelard Sanctuary.
The coalition of spies from all over the world find that there are times when they need sanctuary.
They reach an agreement to place these Abelard Sanctuaries strategically all over the world.
The secrecy attributed to the rose becomes an obsession for many of the Abelard Sanctuary group.
My favorite David Morrell so far is: Murder As a Fine Art a book about Thomas De Quincey the famous British Opium Eater.
One of my favorite writers from a few years ago.
David Morrell is (was?) the king of conspiracies (from "a few years ago").
This is the poster child...two orphans raised from a very early age to be part of a group of ultra loyal assassins.This one stayed with me and it's the one that sent me off finding other books by the author.
It was (surprisingly) well done...but read the book.Another update.
Every time I look back to an old review I find typos...But that said, I still recommend this book and find it one of my favorites by the author.
Story follows two orphans who are cared for by a foster father who trains them to become government assassins. Even worse, they are later betrayed by this man and discover he has a network of children being raised to become top notch assassins. Lots of twists and turns and clever ways of our heroes prevailing, especially at the end when the betraying father is being tracked down. Be sure to seek out the sub rosa definition. Morrell likes his History which I appreciate.
Morrell was--is--a pioneer.This book emerged at the perfect moment for him to break through into the next level of his career.
'Rose' essentially revived the action/spy genre; all commando fiction got-a-new-lease-on-life; got started-back-off-on-the-right-foot.
'Brotherhood of the Rose' works so well, because every decade of modern life holds spies, commandos, assassins, and espionage/counter-espionage agencies.
They will always be plausible in fiction; and for the authors (like David Morrell) who have the skill to craft stories about this sphere--they remain--as always--the great stand-bys of the action-genre.
Written by ‘David Morrell’ - the man who created the legendary character ‘John Rambo’ - this classic espionage thriller, which is the first book in a trilogy, is full of spies, killers, trade-craft and high-octane action spread across locations all over the globe.
(view spoiler)[The plot revolves around two orphans ‘Chris’ & ‘Saul’ - bonded like brothers - who are adopted by a mysterious man named Elliot, who treats them as his own children.
(hide spoiler)]‘The Brotherhood of the Rose’ is a book written purely for entertaining the reader and like other David Morrell Thrillers, it is detailed, fast paced and pulsates with non-stop action so that the fans of ‘espionage thriller’/ ‘political thriller’ genre will find it extremely satisfying.
Morrell does a great job spinning conspiracy theories together into an action packed, but quite believable adventure.
I reread for Action/Adventure Aficionados group April 2016https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...Morrell's writing is tight and the characters are well drawn.
Who should?I've read several other books like this in the past year or so.
Very well done.----------------------March 2005 Review:It's been a long time since I read this, but a friend's review brought it to mind.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...As I recall, it was very twisty & quite good, but a little too full of angst for me.
It's been a while since I read them & it was years between, but I think it was just as good.

While initially getting into the book was hard to do, I really got attached to Chris and Saul, so much so that I found myself crying several times throughout the book.
The characters of the brothers were well rounded and left you wondering how one could embrace violence so naturally and the other would later shy away from his life as an assassin.
I'm not sure why so many people brought up technology in their reviews, the book was written when people still knew what the phrase "cold war" meant.
I didn't find that the "older" technology took anything from the book since the references were time appropriate.
David Morrell, better known as the writer of the novel the first Rambo movie was based on, wrote a spy trilogy in the early 1980s that has just been released in ebook format.The first, Brotherhood of the Rose, follows two orphans that have been raised as brothers and trained to become expert operatives for a secret branch of the CIA.One of the things that sets this book apart from other spy novels is a great concept – on the eve of WWII all of the directors of the various intelligence organizations banded together to create secret spy safe havens.
4.5......This book was written in the early 80's and was set some time after the Vietnam war.
They grew to love him as a father and after the war he trained them even more into being the elite of the elite in special forces.
I really liked this book.
I'd never read David Morrell but the title caught my eye and the synopsis sounded good.
I think this might be a series but it seemed like a stand alone book.
Either way, I liked Morrell's style and will definitely look into reading more of his books.
This book drags me along like a little girl drags a rag doll down the street. The doll ain't getting away. Sometimes the girl shakes the doll or pulls it through the mud. Maybe a dog tries to wrench it away from her, but she wins the tug of war. Likewise, this book pulls me through a rocky adventure. I'm happy to be dragged along. If you crave adventure stories, you might also try The Golden Catch, a thriller/adventure novel where the action unfolds in the stormy Aleutian Islands. Roger Weston, author of The Golden Catch
Ah, just saw someone reading a Morrell novel and thought I'd check if it was the same writer. It is indeed. I read this years ago, and I LOVED it. It was made into a TV mini-series too, which, if I recall, was almost as good.
One of the best spy thrillers I have read,and I have read quite a few. This was recommended as part of a book club discussion, and I am glad I read this. Fast paced, with enough twists and turns for the intelligent reader. This book is great enough for a reread :-D
One of the best thrillers I have ever read...from the author of First Blood.
Like all Morrell books, a good bit of action Synopsis:  Brotherhood of the Rose  is set in the Cold War era in the world of big time spies. Two orphans living in an orphanage, Saul and Chris, were singled out for education and training that led to them being paired together as super spies working for the CIA. Now, the man who trained them - the man they consider to be their father - has betrayed them. Saul and Chris avoid all sorts of troubles as they unravel an international plot against them a
Like all Morrell books, a good bit of action Synopsis: 
is set in the Cold War era in the world of big time spies.
Two orphans living in an orphanage, Saul and Chris, were singled out for education and training that led to them being paired together as super spies working for the CIA.
My review: Like in all of Morrell's books, there is plenty of well-written action and interesting characters.
Plenty of thought went into this world of conspiracy.
It is not Morrell's best work, but it is certainly worth the read.Read all of my reviews of David Morrell's books at: http://dwdsreviews.blogspot.com/searc...
I love this book so much I read it three times over the years.
Two highly trained CIA operatives that were once orphans are betrayed by the only father they ever knew.
They desperately attempt to discover the truth as operatives from every network in the world hunt them down with orders to kill.
It's a fast-paced race against time with plenty of plot twists and suspense to keep you glued to your reading chair!
It was also a pretty cool TV movie about 20 years ago with Peter Strauss, David Morse, Connie Sellecca and Robert Mitchum as the main characters.
I was entranced in this story from the very start. It was well written with solid characters and plenty of twist and turns. The attention to detail is exceptional. It moves along at a very fast pace with plenty of action.Some language and sex takes place but not detailed.
This is possibly one of the best thrillers that I have ever read. If you like Robert Ludlum....you will like this David Morrell
I love almost anything by David Morrell. This was the book that turned me on to his fast paced, heart-stopping style of writing. If you like mystery, action, and page-turning intrigue, read this.
One of the best international intrigue books ever written. About two brothers (by adoption) who are raised as assassins from a very young age by their adopted father. Could not put this down.
Fun Espionage read from David Morrell. Looking forward to grabbing the rest of this series.
Saul and Chris are orphans who meet in a military school, and are raised by a mysterious foster father named Elliot.
But when Elliot sets up Saul to take the fall for the assassination of a friend of the U.S. president, he discovers the love his sons have for each other is greater than their love for him.Known for doing deep research for his novels, Morrell has written an excellent primer on Cold War spy craft.
And while the novel is full of thrilling action, it is the relationship between Chris, Saul, and Elliot that drives the plot.
Another excellent book by MorrellThis book was a real pioneer in the genre of espionage thrillers.
It's smart, fast-paced, and just a great introduction to the character of Saul, The character the even today I believe would make a great hero for the big screen.
David Morrell has done an interesting thing in the way it's in pairs then a violence with secret religious orders.
There is a strong sense of grace in this book for even men that have committed unforgivable crimes.
It's deeper than your average action story, giving you a lot to chew on beyond the story itself.
This is my favorite book ever. The movie is currently in the works. It's too bad that David Morrell won't have his hand in it's production to ensure its authenticity. I emailed him and he told me that he had nothing to do with the production. It sucks though, I was hoping to one day work with him to make this movie. Oh well.
Great action packed book! Don't let the prologue lose you. If your eyes start glazing over after a few paragraphs of the prologue, just skip to Book 1 (chapter 1). It's an easy read from there and a page turner. I actually read this book more than once. First time was in the early 90's and then I read it again about 15 years later.
4.5 stars for this book. I loved it...spies & espionage. Non stop action...David Morrell writes really well and doesn't waffle on trying to fill pages like so many authors do these days. It was written in the 80s and is a little dated in sections, i.e. the technology but I don't think that matters. Great read!
Atgriešanās laikā pirms kādiem 18 gadiem, kad lasīju visu šo triloģiju, kurā Rozes brālība ir pirmā daļa. Daudz kas bija aizmirsies, bet daudzas lietas uzzināju tieši no šīs grāmatas, tikai gadu gaitā aizmirsies, ka no šīs. Var teikt, ka tas bija viens no maniem pirmajiem mūsdienu trilleriem. Ir dažas lažas, bet priekš 1983.gada ļoti labs.
Interesting read - good spy thriller with nice subplot and psychological bent. Much is dated and the paperback editing was poor (quite a few errors) but not distracting enough to lessen the experience. Quick read & worth it.
There isn't much I can say except this was a great book. I haven't read any spy novels before this but... I'm definitely a fan of the genre (now). I suggest anyone who's looking for a good read to pick this up. It's pretty old but all the best books are.
This is one of the greatest spy novels I read. I read it a long time ago and forgot its title. Thank God for Google Book Search. My search words were Baby Ruth and orphanage. Aaah, such sweet feeling, finding it out again.
