https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24013720-wind-pinball
FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY Extra Ball at 600,000 pointsFREE PLAY3 BALLS PER GAMEMy first exposure to Murakami was in my early college years. I checked out 'A Wild Sheep Chase' (Boku #3) one summer from a military library and after I read it, but before I returned it, the library had mysteriously burned down. I'm not sure if I still owe the library a late fee or not. I had no way to return the book, and after reading it, I didn't ever want to. I saved it from the fire. I saved it from oblivion. It was n
\ * / Hear the Wind Sing/Boku #1 \ * /"How can those who live in the light of day possibly comprehend the depth of night?"― NietzcheA nice first novel(la) with most all the known Murakami tropes already stirred in.
'Hear the Wind Sing' seems to show early signs of Norwegian Wood, but 'Pinball, 1973' seems to be an early protonovel that would develop into Murakami's strange, dream-like later novels.\ * / \ * / \ * /If you check out Murakami and the bookstore or library burns down, watch out, you won't be able to rest until you've stalked every novel and read every page.
The Murakami I've come to know and love started to peek through until he finally burst through in all his epic glory.
By reading this book, you can see the exact moment that Murakami came into his own.
The exact page where he likely stopped and said, "I'm going to try something crazy." Because those last 40 pages are filled with the stuff Murakami fans loves.
If this is your first Murakami, though, you'll likely never try another one.In summation: Definitely not a good place to start with this author, but an interesting read for diehard fans.
I dig seeing where Murakami started, so I definitely don't regret reading it.
As always, Murakami's writing is spare & profound. What I especially enjoyed here was his intro essay, "The Birth of My Kitchen Table Fiction," which describes his journey to becoming a great writer. He tells of how he taught himself the art of storytelling -- lots of reading, trial & error, even learning to become succinct & to dispense with overwriting by drafting first in English, then translating his story into Japanese.
Es un libro sobre el movimiento de la existencia, que quita, reencuentra, vuelve a quitar, nos deja en lugares que queremos, nos saca de allí y nos estrella contra uno que no queremos; nos obliga a abandonar sin despedidas y volver para partir.
Y nosotros, como pobres víctimas del tiempo, tenemos que resistir.
Porque la vida es eso: resistencia.Se pierden personas que amamos.Se pierden personas que no llegamos a conocer pero que de alguna manera dejaron su marca en nuestra alma.Se pierde un perro.Se pierde una máquina de pinball.Se pierde un canal de distribución eléctrica.Un bar.Unas gemelas.Un amigo.«Todas las cosas pasan de largo.
Nadie puede retenerlas.Así es como vivimos todos nosotros».
If you are a fan of Murakami's and are interested in finding out how his writing career started, then this petite book is a book for you.
"Wind/Pinball" features two novellas which were the very first stories that Murakami wrote in his kitchen, late in the night.
What I appreciated the most about this book was actually the foreword by Murakami himself, in which he - among other things - reveals how he came up with and developed his unique writing style.
"Wind/Pinball" were not amazing stories, but what was amazing about them was that they are clear starting points to what turned out to become an amazing career for a brilliant Japanese author.
I’ve read 11 of Murakami’s books before this one and I definitely wouldn’t recommend readers curious about the author to start here - begin with Wind-Up Bird, Wild Sheep Chase or one of his short story collections like after the quake instead.
That said, I’d say it’s really only for fans than casual readers – with this book Murakami’s clearly finding his voice and figuring out what he wants to write about which isn’t always the best place for anyone to start.
They are part of a four book series with a common protagonist, the Rat.I don't know if it was wise to start with my Murakami experience by reading his first novels instead of something more well known, but many people said that these books contain seeds in the germination phase of some of his most well known books, which I liked.butthese two stories were utterly plotless, especially the 2nd one.
4 stars for the introduction (on his epiphany he receives to start writing novels) and 3 stars for the stories = 3.5 stars average.
Which I don't normally mind, actually I really enjoy books with very little plot, but it was just kind of dull in this.And god I know Murakami is sexist a lot of the time in his books, but it was over the top in this one.
The narrator was your typical Murakami main male character: lonely, has sex with a fair few women, kind of a dick at times, etc etc.Basically, everything just felt less well-developed.
It was kind of interesting to see how his writing and characters and ideas have developed since these novels, but overall it was just kind of ~meh~.
Pinball was very good and written in the style that most Murakami readers/fans would recognise and enjoy. However Wind felt unfinished, confusing and felt like it was written by someone else.
I think the reason I am so drawn to Murakami right now is that he is writing my feelings.
There are a lot of really painful things going on in my life right now and Murakami captures the feelings I've been having so well.
His characters are so relatable that I feel like they are me when I read this book.
I think about them, I remember moments and quotes that represent how I feel.
I still see myself in all these characters and compare my life to theirs.
That was probably my favourite moment in all the Murakami novels I've read to date.
The foreword to the book has Murakami recalling his early days as the owner of a jazz bar, how he had the sudden inspiration to write after attending a baseball game, how he spent nights at the kitchen-table writing his first two novels and his feelings towards them after all this time. For reviews to the novels, go to the following links.->  Hear the Wind Sing ->  Pinball, 1973
Unfortunately, though, I wouldn't consider myself a Murakami completist, and what I really would've liked him to explain (if indeed it's true what GR friend Edward mentioned in his review of this that Murakami didn't want these released to English-reading audiences) was: Why on Earth were these even published to begin with?
All others, you might just want to skip this and re-read your favorite by him (in my case, probably  The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle) and patiently await his next offering than subject yourself to this shumbling, unfocused essence-of-Murakami.
I'm sure a lot of people choosing to read this book are aware that Murakami did not originally believe these were worthy of translation, as he wrote them at a time where he was discovering who he was as an author while owning a jazz bar.
For some reason, I think of movies like that when I read Hear the Wind Sing, though I can't say they are that closely related, though it had a great soundtrack too (like a lot of Murakami books).
It was 1974, an era when "all over the world, one could still find gaps in the system."Murakami says that he had an epiphany during a baseball game when he suddenly realised he could write a novel.
However, Murakami did go on to write his novel, the book that would become Hear the Wind Sing, writing nights whilst working at the jazz club at all other times.
Of course, it had been a mistake to assume that "a guy like me who had never written anything in his life could spin off something brilliant off the bat." So he works on his writing, first by abandoning Japanese and writing in English instead.
Mi-era dor de un Murakami, iar aceste prime două volume din trilogia Şobolanului nu m-au dezamăgit. Mulţi se plîng de lipsa unui fir narativ, dar pentru mine a fost ca şi cum aş fi stat într-un bar şi mi-aş fi notat pe un carneţel tot felul de gînduri şi idei care-mi trec prin cap, avînd din cînd în cînd o conversaţie cu un prieten. Murakami pur şi simplu ia viaţa din jurul lui, tot freamătul ăsta zilnic în care aproape că nu se întîmplă nimic şi-l aşterne pe hîrtie.Auzi, n-ai o fisă? Că vreau să schimb muzica de la tonomat...
Now that I have read the Rat’s tetralogy in order and am almost finished with “Dance, Dance, Dance”, I can say that “Hear the Wind Sing” functions like the first chapter of a novel: It present the characters and the setting, gives a sketch of their relations, but has no strong presence by itself.
4/5Both “Hear the Wind Sing” and “Pinball, 1973” are easily exposed as early works: They are like a sketch or the first coat of paint, where style and object are well visible, but the picture lacks focus and sharpness.
The thing is, although these are Murakami's first books, they were late being available in English.
This means that if you read them it is probably because you have already read Murakami and have already decided you enjoy his books.
You start these books predisposed to like them.
This was my second reading of them.In the cold light of day, trying to put that predisposition to one side, these are still good books of their genre.
Their genre being "Murakami".
I freely admit to being a fan.
I have half a bookshelf full of paperbacks by him plus several more on my Kindle.
"Para dizer a verdade, devorava os grandes romances russos do século dezanove e os romances negros americanos, mas tenho de admitir que desconhecia a literatura japonesa contemporânea (...) Decidi então começar a escrever um romance em língua inglesa, para ver no que resultava (...) Em resultado disso, a prosa revelava-se algo tosca e despojada (...) porém, à medida que me esforçava por escrever assim, a escrita começou a ganhar forma e encontrei o meu próprio ritmo." - O nascimento da minha escrita à mesa da cozinha, Haruki Murakami.
"Ok so these two old-ass Murakami novellas I'm reading are wacky.
The first one, literally nothing happens except the narrator drinks......a lot of beer, contemplates the meaning/purpose of writing, and dates a girl with 9 fingers....sadness and regret galore...YET I still found it ENTIRELY COMPELLING somehow.
Much better than Colorless Tsukuru....The second novella is about a translator who wakes up one morning to find twins sleeping in his bed and they continue to live with him for months...And they throw a funeral for a dead switch panel at a reservoir????"And woven throughout both is the story of this sad rich kid named Rat who has no luck with women.
My thoughts went back to 1990 and seeing Bernie Williams play for the Albany-Colonie Yankees, a class AA minor league team.
Two years after the second of these was published, A Wild Sheep Chase brought him to the major leagues.I felt that Wind was beginner's writing, while Pinball brought him close to his stride - the alienation of the first person narrator and the Rat, and the odd quality of the twins are elements which would become integral parts of his later, more accomplished works.Murakami says it much better than I can in his introduction:"...these two short works played an important role in what I have accomplished.
Lâu lắm rồi mới đọc một mạch từ đầu chí cuối một cuốn sách Tiếng Anh. Một món quà tặng của một bạn tận trời Tây xa xôi.Đây là tổng hợp 2 cuốn tiểu thuyết đầu tay của Murakami: Hear the wind Sing và Pinball.
Hiển nhiên thôi, ông nói khi viết cuốn tiểu thuyết đầu tay đã tập viết nó bằng Tiếng Anh, thứ ngôn ngữ yêu thích của ông nên chắc cũng không có vấn đề gì lắm.Nội dung thì, sao nhỉ?
I read them out of curiousity, to see how he started out, rather than expecting much, and mild curiosity is about what I got out of them.Hear the Wind Sing is a straightforward story with none of the oddity or surreality of Murakami's later books.
My biggest beef with it is the pretentious title, which the story fails to live up to.Pinball, 1973 has us following two of the characters years later.
But at least there is some interest in following one of the two characters; Murakami develops modest tension as the character becomes addicted to playing pinball and later attempts to find a rare game machine that he had played when he was younger.
Ojalá no hubiera estado tan ocupada para haberlo leído más rápidamente, pero a Murakami me gusta leerle despacio, qué le vamos a hacer.Me han gustado las dos novelas cortas, pero se nota mucho que eran sus primeras veces enfrentándose al folio en blanco y no han tenido, a mi parecer, tanta dirección como tienen sus otros libros, que ya escribió cuando contaba con más experiencia en el campo.
Pero, incluso aunque a veces parezca que son simples notas de un primer borrador, resultan muy curiosas de leer y, como un primer intento de consolidarse como autor, tienen mi aprobación.-Entonces, ¿piensas pasarte toda la vida así?-Es probable.
Ein paar dieser biographischen Details können bereits "Wovon ich rede, wenn ich vom Laufen rede" entnommen werden, einiges, wie z.B. die Tatsache, dass die erste Geschichte von ihm auf Englisch geschrieben wurde und dann von ihm in Japanische übersetzt wurde, war mir neu und fand ich ziemlich interessant.Schon von Beginn an, war der Murakami, wie ich ihn kenne und liebe, zu spüren, gleichzeitig war ich aber auch verblüfft, wie sehr sich diese zwei kurzen Geschichten doch von seinen späteren Werken unterschieden.
Just as there's no such thing as perfect despair..."Wind and Pinball are two short novels that center on the lives of an unnamed narrator and his friend, the Rat. In Wind the unnamed narrator passes time drinking beer at his neighborhood bar and reminiscing about his past girlfriends.
That's what art is..."To understand Murakami you must read Murakami and not some review.
But unlike Eco, I have been able to recapture the experience anytime I pick up a Murakami novel or short story.
I can't do it anymore.
I like the idea of reading all of Murakami's published works, but I don't think it's worth it if I'm forcing myself to pick it up.
I read about 100 pages of Hear the Wind Sing, and I understand why for a long time, Murakami resisted the reprinting of these books in English.
It is somehow neither plot nor character driven, and I'm finding it slow and dry.
I understand that he hadn't developed his voice yet, but this is very uninteresting to me and I don't think I am going to push on just to say that I've read it.
Wells, cats, fetishised body parts, a certain magical realism and melancholy, these self-proclaimed kitchen table novels are clearly the work of Murakami despite being his first attempts at writing, yet are far from the unreadable, embarrassing juvenelia not fit for republishing he once claimed them to be. Let him rake in the big bucks for this by all means, it's pretty good anyway.
Hierbei handelt es sich um Murakamis erste Werke, die er mit einem rundum gelungenen Vorwort einleitet, durch das einem so einiges klar wird. Die erste Geschichte, "Wenn der Wind singt", fand ich absolut grandios und einfach "typisch Murakami". Die zweite konnte mich nicht ganz so aus den Socken hauen, sie war sehr überspitzt und diffus erzählt. Alles in allem sollte man, gerade, wenn man Murakami mag, auch unbedingt zu diesem Band greifen :)
And that's how my beloved Haruki started.
Very interesting to read as these are Murakami's first two books.There was a really interesting intr
