https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31373114-six-years-with-the-texas-rangers
This book was incredibly entertaining. Gillett writes in a very approachable style. I especially enjoyed how fondly he looked on his time in the ranger service, and explained how formative it was for his future endeavors. Highly recommended book on classic Americana. Also: it will also make you want to grow a bushy mustache.
I purchased 'Six Years' for my Kindle based from a list of recommendations connected with "Texas Rising" and due to my interest in Texas history.
I always have three or four books 'in progress' and in the case of of "Six Years" most everything else was put on hold.
James Gillett's description of the frontier of Texas geographically, the flora and fauna, and socially was fascinating to me.
James Gillett served with the Texas Rangers from 1875 to 18881.
His is an easy prose and this is a must read for anyone interested in Texas history.
Understated and authenticThis autobiography, while narrated with modesty, riveted my attention as much from what was left out as from the details that were included. Anyone who has ever strapped on a badge & gun understands the subtext fully.
Great book that I used for background info for my novel Fastest Draw. This is not politically correct but it is all the more authentic for that. Well worth getting and free on the internet as it is public domain.
From the youthful desire to become a Texas Ranger to the pride of hanging up his guns as a Ranger, the author breathed a refreshing air into his life as a ranger highlighting Indian fights and gun battles with outlaws.
The sensation of seating on an open range listening to the tales of an Ranger truly added to the sensationalism of the story.
The true essences of Ranger-hood bleed out from every lingering word portraying a real man of the west with dirty clothes, uncouth in speech, and rebellious by nature living a rough rumbling life where everything did not match the Hollywood romanticized version of the good lawman.
What a fine book detailing the exciting six years of service with the Texas Rangers. This took place at the end of the Indian Wars in Texas. There are lots of encounters with real bad men and raiding Indians. The writing is excellent and moves along very well, keeping the readers attention and providing an entertaining true story.I highly recommend this fine book for everyone.
The book is full of rampant prejudice toward Native Americans, but if you keep that in mind, it is a fun story of the old west
Well written in the lingo of the times..great read.Gillette paints an excellent picture of the times, the country, and the people. Great book, and well worth the time.
A wonderful first-person account of what it was like to ride with the Texas Rangers during the heyday of the old West.
True law enforcementAs a retired chief deputy sheriff for about 15 years in the state of Colorado i like to read about how it was for officers in other times!!
Wild adventures!This was a good book about the experiences of a Texas Ranger. Anyone interested in these adventures will find his story remarkable.
Very interesting!A great historical record of the early days of the Wild West, even recording the virtual end of the Apache nation.
Too few the tough!Story was short, OR I read it very fast because it was a very good book.I was born in Big Springs West Texas, Howard County in 1955.
The oldest picture of myself was taken in black and white film on a box camera.
The picture of me was when I was two years old, sitting on a black eighteen hand beautiful Morgan stallion.
The bridle was grounded and there was not another human in the picture.
I grew up on the stories of the Texas Rangers.
I always wanted to be a Ranger.
Lakeside Press Classic 1943 - Originally released in 1921If you live in a world of political correctness...This book isn't for you.
It is filled with all the words and terms of the 1870's and 1880s.
But, if you can put aside the narrow minded view of todays world...This is an amazing true life story of the early days of Texas and the United States.
From the capture of Sam Bass to battles with the Apache War Chief Victorio and Nana, the life of Gillett is the stuff westerns are made of...(and its all true!)...This book is the perfect companion to Britt Davis's "The Truth About Geronimo".
It's a rare thing to read any "firsthand" account of life in the Wild West that hasn't been either greatly diminished or completely fabricated by ghostwriters like the alcoholic Ned Buntline. This work by Jim Gillett offers a truthful account of his experiences as a Texas Ranger, and although it's been years since I first read it I can highly recommend it, and I'd love to read it again.No Tasers or other non-lethal weapons to aid in apprehending the Bad Guys in those days; a Winchester rifle pointed at the varmint's vitals was the Rangers' means of effecting an arrest.
Texas RangersJames Gillet recounts his adventures with the Texas Rangers during his six years service with them. Hazardous tales of the arrest of outlaw gangs, Sam Bass and others, fill it's pages. The 'great' Indian Chiefs' Vittorio and Geronimo who rebelled against reservation life are vividly presented in the book.Written in the time when the West was evolving, the author and his fellow Rangers,presided over the establishment of law and order in the new state ofTexas.
Really interesting vignettes of early, wild Texas life and the lives of the Texas Rangers. He's a good writer, so it's gripping and entertaining. I recommend having a county map of Texas available as you're reading so you can track where you are. It was really fun to learn the history behind familiar names and places.
The life of a Texas RangerAn eye witness account of rangering in Texas during the formative 1870's as told by a ranger. This is a fascinating first hand experience of life on the frontier. The Texas rangers were the first state police for Texas. They brought law and order to a lawless land. texas was full of bad guys and Indians in the 70's. A recommended book.
Good history of the last frontier in Texas.The areas written about are familiar to me. I have hiked and camped and had water from Waco tanks.A true story of a wild area and wilder men
I thought this might be an interesting read about the early years of the Texas Rangers. Despite it being edited at least once (and possibly twice depending on how you choose to interpret the first two chapters in the book I read), many typographical errors existed that marred the story for me.
A pretty good look at the Texas Rangers in the 1870's. The rangers were the first state "police force". Without them we would have been a lawless state. I am especially proud of my 2nd great grandfather, A. L. Brigance who served as a Texas Ranger back in the 1870's.
A good narrative of a colorful fact of western historyThough not a shoot'em up Hollywood western, this a true depiction by a real ranger. Honest and factual even though the adventure of being a Ranger is a bit understated.
Gillett details his experiences of serving with the Texas Rangers when the West was wild.
A very good read . r.A look at what Early law enforcement was like on the frontier. Love the history.A look at the Early history of Texas law enforcement.
A very interesting first-hand account of James Gillet's experiences as a Texas Ranger.
Fair. Gillett didn't do too much, except he went into Mexico & kidnapped a man & took him back to Socorro, N.M. where a mob took the prisoner from him & hanged him.
A wonderful first hand account of a Texas Ranger from the age of 19. He was involved with Indians, outlaws, and politicians. A great glimpse into life in Texas during the 1870s and 1880s.
