https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8428069-the-lying-game
But when her foster mom doesn't call her for even one time to make sure she's okay, that is messed up.*AND EVERYONE SEEMS TO BE OKAY WITH ALL THIS!!!?And now, what I liked about this book:*it's light*very meant for YA*kind of interesting, if you close your eyes on the wrong shit*No cliffhanger (I was expecting the opposite)*you can read it diognally, which doesn't appeal to some other booksThe outcome?I actually enjoyed this book.
All the characters were flat clichés - not in itself a bad thing - sure we've all seen the dumb jock or the sensitive male poet before, but as long as there are a few good quips or some genuine emotion, I can't say stereotyping bothers me too much.
Emma, the long-lost twin, was a foster kid who'd got the rough end of the deal her whole life; Sutton, the murder victim, was an entitled bitch who had the luck to get adopted by a rich, coddling family.
I have a hard time keeping straight who was who.
They were flat and often quite boring.I really disliked the back and forth between Emma and Sutton.
She brought nothing to the table.Suspense: The book had its suspenseful parts (my favorite was when Emma got strangled), but not enough for me.
I expected the book to have me on the edge of my seat like PLL, but that didn't happen much except for the ending.
Classic who dun it with a twist.Length: The book was a very easy read.
I'm dying to find out what happened to Sutton.
So,when I heard the author of the book series the show was based on had a new YA series in the works, I quickly added the new title to my “must read list.” The Lying Game does not disappoint.
Emma’s life in her foster home is unbearable.
I’m glad that readers get to see events unfold through the eyes of both working class Emma and privileged Sutton, because it lends perspective to Sutton’s Lavish lifestyle.
Sara Shepard’s masterful ability to create a suspenseful landscape filled with mystery and paranoia will make even the most seasoned reader of YA mystery and suspense jump in his or her seat.
WOW!!!! SO GOOD!!! It started off a little slow and it took me some time to get into the story but once it got interesting, I was hooked!!!
p1."I could barely remember that my name was Sutton Mercer and that I lived in the foothills of Tuscon, Arizona."This is a pretty cheap way to tell a characters name.
After a series of kinda stupid events, and thirty name dropping pop-culture references later, Emma finds out that Sutton is her twin and goes to visit her through Facebook.
I was left feeling no sympathy for any of the characters except for Nisha, the villian, and Ethan, the loner love interest.Nisha is an East Indian girl, meaning that she is actually from India I guess, who Sutton and her friends prank for very stupid petty reasons.
Even if this is only half as good as the Pretty Little Liars books were, it’s going to be amazing. I can’t wait to read this when it comes out!
Girl finds her long lost twin, and when she goes to visit her, it turns out that she is murdered.
The girl is threatened by the killer to pretend she is her long lost twin, so nobody knows she's gone, or else....Yes, that sounds bad, doesn't it?I managed to get myself over that improbable plot, only to find myself annoyed by the improbable choices of our main character.
So many times I wanted to scream at my book, because she kept making stupid decisions.
The characters were cliché; mean rich girl, dull jock, attractive loner, etc.
And do girls really talk the way they do in this book?
Well, I'm embarrassed. I actually liked this book, and I only picked it up at the library as a practical joke on myself. Joke's on me, it seems. Is this book fine literature? No. Is it a classic in it's genre? Uh, no. Is it a fun, light hearted thriller that's actually a pretty good beach book if a reader can appreciate the parameters of the story? Yeah. Are YA books whittling away my brain cells? Yeah, probably.
I could not get into "Pretty Little Liars" at all and it ended up being a Can't finish book.
but something kept nagging at me to try it out.Shockingly, it has been a stepping stone for walking me out of my reading slump this summer.
All that reading and I know NOTHING!!!
Emma was a huge book saver for me, along with Ethan.
If Ethan ends up being the killer, I am going to be mad.
I also liked Laurel at times, I don't know why but she had some moments of redemtion for me...
Bottom line:I'm hooked, i want to know who the killer is!
My review can also be found here: https://devouringbooks2017.wordpress....Wow, this is actually incredible.I picked this up because I thought some superficial young adult trash novel would pull me out of my reading slump.
The Lying Game had me on the edge of my seat the whole time and I've gained some respect for Sara Shepard.
The pacing is fast, keeping the story moving and the plot is intricate.
I thought I would be reading about a character more like Sutton, superficial and spoiled, but I got Emma instead.
This fast paced mystery was exactly what I needed.
Ooo hello new series count me in. I’m a huge Sara shepard fan I mean come on I read her 17 book pretty little liars series and loved them all so dedication right there. Now there’s this series and I’ve always liked the way the main characters are like-able. Emma is a pretty cool character. If you liked pretty little liars then your going to like never have I ever. 5 🌟
The characters were great and there was A LOT of funny parts.
I was suspicious of Laurel from the beginning.
I wasn't too sure about Ethan, but I was almost positive he had nothing to do with what happened to Sutton.
I liked the parts when Sutton voiced her opinion on how Emma was doing by pretending to be her.
There was a lot of funny scenes!
I also found it really funny with Suttons boyfriend, Garret.
HILARIOUS!I really like Ethan, and I hope Emma and him can have more of a relationship in the next book while they are working together.
This book is the PERFECT mix of mystery, romance, suspense, and tragedy!!This book revolves around the life of Sutton Mercer that her identical long lost twin sister, Emma Paxton is living.
Emma takes the place of her sister because she finds out that Sutton has been murdered.
because I know that she LOVES books with tragedy and romance having read Twilight.
Whenever Emma has a suspect on her list you see that they have a motive, reason, and in the past have had some kind of problem with Sutton.
Please read this book!
Lovely Bones meets I Know Who Killed MeI was really conflicted on how to rate this book. It started off really strong, and I was really interested in seeing what was going to happen. Towards the middle it started to get a little boring and campy, and the ending wasn’t thrilling at all. I don’t know if I want to invest my time or money on reading the rest of the books in the series.
The Lying Game by Sara Shepard is a mystery-packed, thrill-suspense novel that will keep you guessing and thinking till your heads hurt.
In order to find out her twin's killer, Emma pretends to be Sutton.
I'm like, "how'd that get there?" A rather better explanation would've been better.And oh the characters, well I didn't really "hate" Emma or Sutton.
Sutton's character has a lot of revealing to do and I'm so excited.
I would've wanted a more bitchy queen bee (just like Sutton), I mean that would've been more exciting and interesting to read about!
3. 5 stars.The writing is effective and the story develops with a fine, steady speed, but after a while I grew tired of all the characters backstabbing each other and hiding something behind their backs...okay at first such dramas are interesting but after a while...it doesn't work so well anymore.
Still, I will most likely read the next book.PS: the murdered victim is a total and venomous bitch whom I won't walk anywhere near to.
I don't want this kind of person in my life and I am not surprised to find someone is pissed enough by her to kill her.
**4.5 stars**Just read this book in one sitting and I can tell from now, this series is going to be a new obsession of mine..
Stupid plot, stupid story, incredibly stupid characters. You'd have to pay me to read the next book.
First, this is my first book from Sara Shepard, I haven't read Pretty Little Liars, BUT I watched the TV show and I absolutely adore it.
Sutton suddenly wakes up seeing a girl that looks exactly like her and then she realizes that she is a ghost, but to this girl who apparently is herlong lost twin sister.
Emma soon realizes that Sutton is dead and now tries to figure out who murdered her sister and why the killer wants her to take Suttons place?
Sutton wasn't a nice girl...
Have you ever read a book where you are just sitting still reading the pages, feeling like you can't breathe after every word?
I need the next book and I need it now!!!Emma:Okay, Emma is our foster girl who is Sutton's twin sister, she soon finds out Sutton is dead and is being threatned to play as Sutton or she will die next.
Okay there are way too many characters to talk about right now because I am still trying to breathe after reading this book!
If I go on with all the characters that were mentioned then this will just be another review that is way too long and everyone dodges because they don't have the time to read.
This book totally deserves a 5 STAR.The only reason i gave it 4 stars is because i didn't get to know the murderer in this book, i was reading this book so desperstely because i thought i will get to know who is it by the end but i didn't which was so dissapointing but that explains why it's a series.GOD!
I wonder how long do i have to wait to know the murderer.Anyway this is my first mystery book and i totally love it, this book has raised my opinion on mysteries.I loved this book from the very fisrt page, this has become one of my favourite books.I'm dying to finish this series as soon as possible.Can't wait to read the next book NEVER HAVE I EVER!
I actually finished this book on July 28 but I never updated bc I was hoping it would get better. It wasn't a huge book but there was not enough mystery to the mystery. I like PLL so I was hoping this would be great. I was disappointed
Ich brauche Band zwei! sofort! xD
When Emma finds out about her long lost twin sister she goes to visit her and gets forced into impersonating Sutton.
From page one this book will pull you in and just when you think you had things figured out, BAM!
I love how Shepard made Sutton a 'ghost'.
It's a very interesting dynamic!All in all, if you like Pretty Little Liars, you will like this book.
I think I even liked it a little bit more!
I was hoping to get some questions answered in this book, but that's not happening.
At A GlanceGenre: Young AdultLove Triangle/Insta Love?: Nope.Cliff Hanger: YesRating: 4 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover: 7Plot: 7Characters: 7World Building: 7Flow: 7Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 8Ending: 8Total: 7.5In DepthBest Part: Ghost Girl!Worst Part: Mean Girls!Overall Feels Felt: You dumb; Wowwww; Oh snap!!!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yesMisc.: Short Review: Well since i finished PLL i figured i should tackle another series by Sara.
This has a different feel to it than PLL.
I like the storyline.
The twist at the end nailed it thou.
I would like to see a bit more of Sutton's before death life, maybe that'll happen in book 2.
The latest series from Pretty Little Liars author, Sara Shepard.
Pretty meh overall.
However, as the story progressed and the mystery was further developed, the book improved.
Like Shepard's other books, there are a lot of pop culture references, label-dropping, and teens from overly privileged families.
In general with most of Shepard's work, I find the mystery's tension somewhat able to overcome the book's weaker aspects.
For people who have watched the ABC Family series, The Lying Game, based on this book, there are some pretty stark differences.
However, in my opinion, the changes made in the TV series were for the better.
I didn't know this was going to be a series....
I'm a bit confused how it's going to be stretched out over multiple books, because even when I had a chapter or two left, I fully expected everything to resolve, then...
It was well written, and definitely intriguing, but I sort of feel like I'm not trendy enough for this series.
I enjoyed most of the book, but I think this empty feeling I have right now is because there is zero closure--and I didn't know I was signing up to start another series.
Dacă ești fan Pretty Little Liars, nu are cum să nu te prindă această poveste.
E ca și cum urmărești un serial și tot dai episod după episod fără să îți dai seama, fără să te gândești prea mult dacă e bun sau nu, fără să te oprești să analizezi povestea.
E un roman scurt, de citit într-o după amiază la cafea.
așa e într-un roman cu adolescenți, nu?Recomand, fără însă a ridica ștafeta foarte sus.
Nu e un roman extraordinar, dar cu siguranță nu e plictisitor și merită să te relaxezi cu povestea asta încâlcită cu adolescenți care au nevoie de atenție.
The long lost twin thing has been done before, and other than the twist of having Sutton narrate the tale there’s little here to set it apart from those others.
At least later she’s threatened into keeping who she is a secret, which makes it a little more believable, but by then I’d lost the ability to care.Emma is not all that emotional about Sutton either – that she had a twin and didn’t know, that she was lied to by her flaky mother, that she’s lost the chance to ever know her sister – or at least not until right at the end.
I’m starting to think I didn’t like Emma at all…at least Sutton is a bit more interesting.
