https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13277999-the-unnamable
This little piece is unusual for Lovecraft.
It is not so much a weird tale as a discussion about weird tales.
The description of the cemetery, though brief, is evocative and filled with the realistic details of a New England landscape, and you will be happy to know that eventually the debate of our two “critics” is resolved—not by an extraordinary persuasive argument—but by the appearance of the “unnamable” itself.
Besides, he added, my constant talk about “unnamable” and “unmentionable” things was a very puerile device, quite in keeping with my lowly standing as an author. I was too fond of ending my stories with sights or sounds which paralysed my heroes’ faculties and left them without courage, words, or associations to tell what they had experienced.Haha, I see why Carter is supposed to be a stand-in for Lovecraft himself.I feel like I have to give him props for making fun of himself for doing that thing, while in the act of doing it. http://www.hplovecraft.com/writings/t...
Two friends are sitting near an old house on Meadow Hill in Arkham, Massachusetts. They are arguing about the way the narrator writes about the unnamed in his stories.  '... my constant talk about 'unnamable' and 'unmentionable' things was a very puerile device, quite in keeping with my lowly standing as an author. I was too fond of ending my stories with sights or sounds which paralysed my heroes’ faculties and left them without courage, words, or associations to tell what they had experienced.
Two friends are sitting near an old house on Meadow Hill in Arkham, Massachusetts.
They are arguing about the way the narrator writes about the unnamed in his stories.
my constant talk about 'unnamable' and 'unmentionable' things was a very puerile device, quite in keeping with my lowly standing as an author.
I was too fond of ending my stories with sights or sounds which paralysed my heroes’ faculties and left them without courage, words, or associations to tell what they had experienced.
So he tells his friend a story about the old house and the attic and the thing that is said to exist there.
This story is pretty meta. It's almost like Lovecraft was commenting on his own work, cliches, and techniques. He throws in a little scare at the end just to make sure you know it's all real and then it's over. Featuring Randolph Carter.
The ad nauseum use of the 'I cannot bear to speak of it' cop-out means I audibly groan whenever I encounter it, and I've recently discovered H.P wrote the Unnamable, which has a debate between a stuffy school teacher and a self-insert about the problem of 'incomprehensible monsters', and I hoped he'd address my complaint.His basic argument is this:If someone accepts the concept of a spirt, or more 'common place' supernatural phenonema and religous miracles, then denying the possibility of things beyond the understanding of our physical senses, things so utterly awesome and strange that they cannot be placed correctly into human words is, to quote, 'a stupid absence of imagination and mental flexibility'.Aside from the fact he's basically saying 'well if you don't appreciate my works, you're obviously just not intellectual enough', the rude pillock, that only partially addresses characters unable to describe horror, not those that flat out refuse because 'it was too horrible'.
Картер снова шляется по местам упокоения усопших, но на этот раз его не ведут туда за ручку в поисках приключений.
Картер спорит с другом относительно некоторых вопросов восприятия, а под конец даже рассказывает страшилку собственного сочинения.
Друг выступает в рассказе чурбаном, признающим реальность только того, чему дано имя – и ни он, ни даже Картер, более-менее одаренный фантазией, оказались не готовы к тому, что явилось им в тот день на кладбище.
(view spoiler)[В итоге вся их болтовня оказалась фигней, когда наконец нагрянуло великое и ужасное НЕИМЕНУЕМОЕ.
Сколько ни спорь с другом, что оставлять свет на ночь – иррационально и глупо..
This was a good story, but it kind of seems like Lovecraft wrote this story as a sort of "what if" rebuttal in his head, probably to make himself feel better about an argument with a friend. Also I find it very amusing that he names something that he claims can't be named
A story responding to criticism of his use of anti-descriptions.
On the surface these might look like cop-outs to giving a disappointing description of his aliens.
Not so, says he, because some of these things aren't completely in our dimension or aren't totally perceptible.
I could grant him that, except that he also uses words about things that seem more describable: "blasphemous torso" or "tenebrous wings" which make for eloquent prose, but also purple and non-descriptive.
It also sort of bends his own mythos, if they're not totally perceptible, then how do they perceive them at all?
Lovecraft is sitting at the pub, having a draft with his homies.
He starts his story:We were sitting on a dilapidated seventeenth-century tomb in the late afternoon of an autumn day at the old burying-ground in Arkham, and speculating about the unnamable.Of course you were, Howie.
You could have been sitting at the bar having a draft with your homies, and you still would have been speculating about the unnamable.
That's what's so damn sexy about your writing, you just can't describe it.
And then, your characters get all queasy and crazy and faint-y.
Because, you know -- oh God!
Двоє друзів - Картер і Джоел Ментон відпочивають на кладовищі і полемізують з приводу того, чи доцільно в літературі залишати деякі явища неназваними. Ментон вважає, що все піддається класифікації згідно з п'ятьма відчуттями та інтуїцією. Картер в якості контраргумента наводить реальну історію, про яку колись писав. На початку 18-ого століття поховали самотнього чоловіка, але його дім боялися чіпати. Щось ховалося за зачиненими дверима горища. Як виявилося, поховали чоловіка на цьому ж цвинтарі, а дім - он-де недалеко. І щось невимовне теж їм довелося зустріти.
Two friends, an author and a preacher, minding their own business, lounging on top of an old tomb in the Arkham cemetery, chatting about literary criticism and superstitions (as one does), are (view spoiler)[ shockingly attacked after the sun goes down (hide spoiler)]. Last line = stupid, but I really enjoyed this one anyway.(Moved 2016 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
Masterful flit of a pseudometa tale. Particularly impactful when read after "The Shunned House" and a good bit of popular Lovecraft. He brings the reader in a journey parallel to that of the narrator's friend. Though seemingly autobiographical reference, he uses the reader's detection of allusion against them just as his friend's trust. You're left with revelations that neither fully see coming.
5/10
2,5-3/5
It begins as a philosophical discussion between the narrator, who is an author, and his friend, who is a high school principal, about the author's foible of referring to things in his stories as "indescribable" or "unnamable." The principal holds that this is a "puerile device" of the author and is the reason, at least in part, that he has not become more successful.
The narrator, Randolph Carter, attempts to defend himself.The two men are, of course, sitting on a tomb in a cemetery as they have this conversation.
Carter, a genre fiction writer, meets with his close friend, Joel Manton, in a cemetery near an old, dilapidated house on Meadow Hill in the town of Arkham, Massachusetts.
As the two sit upon a weathered tomb, Carter tells Manton the tale of an indescribable entity that allegedly haunts the house and surrounding area.
No doubt he says this with love, but Carter's inspired by their eerie setting to defend his dark romanticism from Manton's rationalistic world view.What sets this short story apart from the other, is this defense of Lovecraft's romantic literary style and credo, against the supposedly rational naturalist position of his critics.
The very opening begins with the 2 main characters discussing how something could be "unnamable" which is a really stupid idea if you think about it, but IMHO it would have to be something so borderline incomprehensible that you just didn't have words to describe it.
If you are new to Lovecraft, don't start with this story.Its a shame for this to be Randolph Carter's second appearance, as its a horrible follow-up to the delightfully eerie "Statement of Randolph Carter" which is a great short story to read at a campfire.
The second story I have read by Mr. Lovecraft.
SO much better then the first one.
I read through it two or three times, because I was trying to make sense of what happened in the end.
SO CREEPY!
LESSON ONE: DON'T QUESTION THINGS ESPECIALLY THE 'UNNAMBLE'!
*shudders*This was so much better then the first one, in my opinion.
It was super creepy and you just KNEW something was around the corner.
The tone of the story, you could just feel the heaviness.
Favorite Character(s): Carter and Manton (even tho they should have not questioned or talk about it)Not-so Favorite Character(s): nada
Pretty autobiographical. Effectively the protagonist is Lovecraft and his friend is Robert E Howard. Interesting to gain a little insight into Lovecraft's mind and see him defending the idea of terrors so extreme that they defy the boundaries of human nomenclature. I sort of felt sorry for him.The protagonist encounters an unspeakable horror and names it "The Unnamable". Not sure if the blatant irony is intentional or not. Funny either way.
A change of tack for Lovecraft, with this almost autobiographical tale of unspeakable darkness.He alludes to many ancient superstitions and acts as devil's advocate in a philosophical debate as to the purpose and ideas behind tales of terror.It's worth bearing in mind that some of these literary devices that seem trite today, were probably ground breaking at the time.The tension builds, and the ending, whilst slightly predictable, is effective.
***story available for free on Amazon in the H. P. Lovecraft: The Complete Fiction collection***I don't even know what this was. It wasn't horror, it wasn't even a short story, more of a snippet about two men discussing the horror stories in a cemetery.Blah.
Pretty cheesy by Lovecraft’s standards but still a fairly fun story. It reads like a Halloween ghost story you would see in an episode of a PG-7 cartoon. Two friends spend a night on a hill by a haunted house and hear some creepy sounds coming from within. It turns out to be a gross looking monster that’s so ugly and strange that it can’t be named. And that’s where the title comes from.
Two old friends sit in a decrepit cemetery, discussing the nature and the existence of the supernatural. It doesn't stay in abstract for long.Please read the full review here.
22
I think I've discovered the origin of the "face in the window" horror trope. Thanks, New England.
It was decent. Short and to the point.
Two men discuss an unnamable thing locked in a house. I liked the story although it's not one of my favorites.I remember watching a movie based on this story when I was a girl.
I liked this. More of a humorous story than a creepy one, Lovecraft seems to have written this as an answer to critics at the time.
Worst way to lose a bet
liked the line "spectacle which cannot be clearly depicted by the solid definition of fact or the correct theology"
