https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107305.Ruined_City
For all the melodrama of the subject, Nevil Shute proves once again that he has the delicate touch and the understated strength of character to carry it to its conclusion.Warren is ready to sacrifice his wealth, his good name in the business circles and his long held moral principles for a cause that he considers noble and just : One can't just give up working, and do nothing.
I believe the second part of  A Town Like Alice  is revisiting this subject of putting money to work for helping the less fortunate and is a good companion to the present book.There's even time for a bit of romance and a touch of humor to relieve the serious themes of the book.
Ruined City manages to do just that with this story of sacrifice and redemption set in during the worst years of the Great Depression.Henry Warren is a successful and well regarded London banker who heads up to the north of England for a walkabout when his marriage falls apart.
The plot threatens to get a bit thick at times when Shute takes his readers into the world of international trade and finance but it redeems itself with its well-developed characters.3.5 starsFYI: On a 5-point scale I assign stars based on my assessment of what the book needs in the way of improvements:*5 Stars – Nothing at all.
The rates are all right--in theory, Mr. Warren.
There's really nothing wrong with the rates of relief.
And of course, if your wife gets ill and you want to buy her little fancy bits of things...' (72-3).'I had time to think about all this when I was here in hospital.
'To create jobs that men can work at, and be proud of, and make money by their work.
There's no dignity, no decency, or health today for men that haven't got a job.
All other things depend on work today: without work men are utterly undone' (167).
The protagonist,a banker and financier, realizes that "There's only only one thing really worth working for in the City.
. the thing most worth doing in this modern world [is to] create jobs that men can work at, and be proud of, and make money by their work.
All other things depend on work today; without work men are utterly undone".
The protagonist admits that though his intentions are good his methods (if they are to succeed) can not be because of the tension between serving investors and creating work where industry has failed once before .

Unshaven for the week he has been walking, with little money on him, and having lost his identification, he is taken for an unemployed, homeless man.
He talks with the hospital almoner, i.e., social worker, Miss McMahon and learns that so much of this is due simply to lack of proper nutrition because they have so very little money.
When he asked her why she doesn’t leave, she said because it is her home and because she firmly believes that prosperity will return in some manner.As he reaching this end of his recovery period, he asks Miss McMahon if she can arrange for him look at the closed shipyard, rolling mills, and mine.
Nevil Shute wrote this on the back of his own experiences in floating and running a company. He succeeds (as usual) in involving the reader in a story that in lesser hands would have been dry and dull. Builds to quite an emotional ending.Shute was visionary in several of the books he wrote, accurately foretelling, or bleakly warning, of events in the near future. It is ironic that the ship building industry in Britain at the time of this novel was about to collapse due to the superiority of welding over riveting.

Like A Town Like Alice, this is about reviving the fortunes of a town, though the town and the story are very different. Started off unbearably depressing and I wished I'd picked something else to take on holiday, but quickly became a feelgood read as banker Warren, faced with the very real results of the kind of decisions he's used to making at work, decides to fix the town of Barlow by bringing its shipyard, five years abandoned, back to life.
After reading On the Beach, I thought I would try to read more of Nevil Shute, and I was very glad I picked up Ruined City (which has been re-titled Kindling) in a second hand shop.
Both of these books have universal themes and are quite relevant.
Main character Henry Warren, a wealthy banker sees closeup what the Depression has done to a Northern England coastal town.
A once thriving shipbuilding town is now filled with unemployed men, half-starving children, and a shipyard that is slowly disintegrating.
Warren sees the potential of what this town could be again, and decides to do something about it.
Similar to a Town Like Alice, without the romantic intrigue. This novel also explores the effects of a poor economy on the psychology of its people. In this case it was a once booming town hit by the depression, rather than, as was the case in a Town Like Alice, a dust bowl. Both explore methodical inspiration and what one person, with means, can do for an entire town. Well worth the read, short and insightful.
A powerful tale of redemption, and how a determined man can make a difference, regardless of the costs - Mr Shute so effortlessly depicts the world of high finance (and all the hijinks it entails) that you can be forgiven for thinking he was born to it..
a great sailing journey
another lovable book by Nevil Shute. Readd it for the first time many years back. Read it for the second time when my daughter did her M Phil.
This book is set in the 30’s and is about investment banking and it’s very readable because Nevile Shute is just a wonderful writer. I haven’t read anything of his that wasn’t wonderful. Henry Warren takes a long walk to re-think his life and ends up in a hospital in NE England in a town that has died due to its shipyard’s failure...long story short, he buys the shipyard, gets some orders and revitalizes the town.
I used to adore Nevil Shute so was thrilled to pick up a dozen hardbacks in good nick at a local charity shop. I'd completely forgotten that I'd read this previously, which says as much about me as about the story. However, it was all a bit sad, dated and humourless which left me feeling rather disappointed even though the 'hero' was a good man who did wrong to achieve right
A quick little book, set in and written during the depression, its a rather standard morality play. Interesting is its reflexive rejection of socialism during the low point of capitalism. It flows well and the details are interesting but there are no real surprises or suspense in the book.
Great story. Great characters.
Very inspiring book. Really wasn't sure what to expect when a friend lent this to me. Really a good story about someone doing good.
But after a few days of walking he collapses with agonizing stomach pains and has to be taken to a hospital in Northumberland for an operation.As he recovers from his surgery, Warren learns from ‘the Almoner’, Miss MacMahon, that the mortality rate in the hospital is extremely high, mainly owing to the poor nutritional status of the population of Sharples.
In essence, Warren had said that his company would make a profit for its shareholders in its early years, even though he knew it was far more likely to make a loss.
At any rate, not a "black man" by modern reckoning, by which we mean someone whose origins trace to sub-Sahara Africa (Yup, the Brits were pretty racist 75 or so years ago).
Shortly thereafter, Warren, feeling run down and depressed, heads north for a bit of walking.
Warren befriends the "Almoner" at the hospital, which I think is likely the social worker who deals with the charity patients.
We also have a budding romance between the "Almoner" and Warren, but done in the Shute style of two people developing a strong friendship.
Personally, I think the Shute style is more appropriate for building lasting relationships.
While he is, in fact, quite wealthy, he initially maintains the fiction that he is unemployed, so that he can quietly observe the status of this very economically depressed town and get an insight into how the local citizens are faring following the closing of the local shipyard, rolling mills, and mine five years previous.Henry is a workaholic whose marriage is failing.
He feels that he may have found it and soon sets as his goal revitalizing the town of Sharples and putting it back on its economic feet by re-opening the shipyard and perhaps the other closed up industries in order to get the local people back to work.
Mr. Shute's standard M.O. in his novels was to take an ordinary, competent, decent man of modest means, and follow him through a series of personal trials, highlighting his integrity and culminating in a successful and heartwarming conclusion.
Shute's descriptions of various banking negotiations and transactions are competent and still valid today, and his ability to present Warren as a credible, yet flawed and still appealing, character is compelling.
There's no dignity, no decency or health to-day for men that haven't got a job.
All other things depend on work to-day: without work men are utterly undone." Shute constantly surprises and pleases; I'll be sorry when I have no more of his books to read.
You have to be a very serious Nevil Shute fan to like this one (guilty). So serious in fact that you were delighted to purchase this copy, only to discover an original Pan copy in the depths your bookshelves that was brought back from Australia.
He concluded there was no possible way to honestly procure funding or contracts to enable Barlows to put the men of Sharples back to work.
So, Warren went ahead and did it dishonestly using falsified financial statments, international bribery, and dummy holdings; and got sent to prison for his efforts.Not that the people of Sharples condemned Warren for what he'd done to get them work, no way!
Not one of Shute’s more memorable efforts, I believe I had read this at one time because I think I read all of his books, but as I re-read it, it was without an inkling of recognition.
Set in the midst of the depression, the small town of Sharples where the hospital is located has had its shipyard closed and the people in the town have become hopeless in their attitudes.
Warren decides to finance the re-opening of the shipyard as a return for the care and attention he received in the hospital.
A very wealthy, investment banker in London is working too much and his wife is sleeping with someone else.
After a pain in the office, he decides to walk 20 miles a day and has his chauffeur drop him in the country.
He makes it to an inn and goes walking again the next day.
The ship yard, the mine, and most of the stores were closed.
When he finally leaves to go back to London, he decides that he must do something for the hospital and the town.
He buys the ship yard, but then has to figure out how to get someone to order ships built.
It contributed nothing the the plot, and existed only to be racist.
The book has interesting ideas of work, and promotes a balance.
However, it was only by working himself almost to death, that Warren was able to accomplish so much.
A random death near the beginning of the book was only used to shock and contributed nothing to the plot or its message.
Reminds me of Ikiru by Kurosawa, however, I thought that film was a bit better than the book.
The idea of revitalizing a town is good, however, it can be done better than this.
Published in USA under the title "Kindling"One of Nevil Shutes most compelling stories, about a man who gives up everything, his wealth, status, even his reputation in pursuit of a dream to rehabilitate an economically devastated industrial town.Readers who are unfamiliar with the business world may find it hard to believe the decisions that Warren takes and the length he's willing to go to achieve his ends.
But the reality is that men of that type do in fact take such personal risks in their determination to achieve their objectives.
It's not just some sort of misplaced nobility or self-sacrifice or compelling need to "give back"; doing such things is in their genes and that's why such men sometimes achieve great thigs and sometimes they self-destruct.
Did NS dash this sort of book off to get rid of some of his frustrations with business?
It's very tempting to see some parallels between trying to set up and sell ships, with his experience with Airspeed.
There may also be a touch of bitterness with some of the city procedures and personalities (perhaps the share dealing Dean in Shoreham).
Best of all were the scenes in Leavetia, where we have some colourful people and colourful business practices to go with them.
An unusual book, probably more fun these days for its old fashioned outlook.
