https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/415122.The_Day_Lincoln_Was_Shot
Read this in high school and I still remember what a great read it was. A historical recreation that reads like a novel. The story of events surrounding the assassination of the president. Great read for history buffs or anyone else.
On page 26, in referencing public attitude toward the president, the author says, "The people of the North felt, in the main, that he was a stumbling, homely man whose 'wrong' guesses, comically enough, were always justified in the end." No supporting proof or sources are offered on this point.
The "stumbling, homely man" had secured 55 percent of the vote in the previous fall's election.
More infuriating is the author's description of Mary Todd Lincoln in the book's final page.
Or maybe Lincoln's guard who got bored and walked away from his post to get a drink at a neighboring bar shortly before Booth arrived?
This is an hour by hour account of the events leading to Lincoln's assassination by John Wilkes Booth.
Jim Bishop's ability to capture the political mood of the era and the times and lives of people is nothing short of spectacular if not magical.
From Lincoln's strange dream that he was going to be assassinated to John Wilkes Booth failed multiple plans to kidnap and then kill the president, this book has it all and it is the ultimate companion and finale to Doris Kearns Goodwin’s excellent book: “Team of Rivals – The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln.”
A very interesting and compelling telling of the events leading to the assassination of President Lincoln. Very well written. There were a few parts that were a little gory, but very true to the actual events.
Ese día en la mañana Lincoln tuvo una reunión de gabinete, incluyendo a Grant, en las que se definirían las bases para la incorporación de los estados sureños al sistema y gobierno del Norte.Por otra parte, Booth, llevaba a cabo los últimos detalles de su plan de asesinato de Lincoln.
This was recommended by a friend.
I'm not normally one for history, so I was a little reluctant, but I have been trying to expand my historical knowledge and this seemed like a good way to go about it.
I'm glad I did; it was a very good read.
The book moves hour by hour from Lincoln waking the morning of his assassination to when silver dollars were placed on his eyes.
The author moves back and forth between what was going on with Lincoln and with Booth and the consipirators.
Good read.
Definitely recommended.
When I read High Noon in Lincoln about the Lincoln County WarI had the same feeling as this book -- 
Such a sad and tragic story. I learned a lot of history, but ultimately walked away sad that humanity is so disturbed at times. Four stars, only because it got a little slow in the middle and there were too many people to keep track of. All in all, I’m glad I read it and would highly recommend it to anyone who is fuzzy on the history of the Civil War era.
I knew this had to be a worthy read after noticing the venerable Bruce Catton praised it. Even though it was published more than 60 years ago, this remains the stand alone document of Lincoln's final 24 hours. It is thoroughly and intensely researched, and written with the eye of a novelist. I could not put it down.
Very interesting book. I would recommend it to everyone. It is a good read.l am glad I took time to read this. It is an interesting and sad period in our country's history
You’d think a person who has read a lot on Lincoln might tire of the story, but not me. And not when it is really well written. This one goes in my top 5 Lincoln books for sure.
Great book. It is fascinating to see how the scholarship has changed the narrative since this was published.
This book transcends history and politics (subjects I love, by the way).
Okay, maybe not romance per se, but the bond between Lincoln and his wife was touching, even if she was a bit (maybe more than a bit!) of a tyrant.I would love to give this book five stars, but alas, it gets four.
Sure, yes, the book is set from 7 a.m. to about 7:30 a.m. the next day (basically Lincoln's last 24 hours), and Booth was not captured in that time frame.
The postscript where Booth was concerned should have been at least two pages.This is a fine book that brings Washington City and history to life.
From my rudimentary look at Jim Bishop's books, it appears that "The Day" stories were his specialty.
The Day Lincoln Was Shot is certainly my favorite read for this month and it may make my top five for the year.
Nothing about this hour-by-hour account of Lincoln's last day is at all dry.
You would be amazed at how many writers can look at a man as fascinating as Lincoln, and then turn out work that makes watching paint dry seem exciting.
The book starts with a bit of background regarding Lincoln's visit to Richmond and his second inauguration, and Booth's building enmity toward the President.

I decided to give the book a rating of four stars because I felt that it gave great information of the day Lincoln was shot from multiple points of view and it will allow you to imagine this Memorial Day in a way similar to those who were alive at the time.
This is why I would recommend this book to mostly adults, or young adults of any gender who crave to read texts that include as much information as this book does.
That being the case, this book is a great read.I first read it in grade school, then persuaded our teacher to let me turn it into a play.
I was Lincoln, of course; I cast Deborah, on whom I had an undying crush (her family moved away that summer and I never heard of her again -- isn't that the perfect way for a grade school crush to end?).
The class loved the way he relished shouting out "Sic semper tyrannis" after shooting me with a cap pistol.Reread it more than thirty years later, and it didn't hold up too badly.
All history books should be written by Jim Bishop.
He is able to bring the past to life with wonderful story telling that doesn't lose any details.
This book taught me more about Lincoln than I have ever gotten out of classes and lessons.
The deep research involved in such a writing must make it almost impossible to create history books in its image.
Yet, we could do with less encyclopedia-like accounts of our past so that we keep our heritage instead of trying to wade through it.
I will make sure to add Bishop's other masterpieces to my collection as soon as possible.

I first read this book when I was a teenager.
I decided to re-read it for the 150th Anniversary of the Lincoln assassination.
Just a basic overview of the events of the 24 hours leading up to the assassination, ending with Lincoln's death.
Although the book is 60 years old, its straight forward recitation of the facts about this important historical moment make it still relevant today.
I always loved Jim Bishop, reading his newspaper column regularly when I was in high school.
He took a solid journalistic approach to this story and made it feel like you were in Washington when it happened.
A detailed account of the 24 hours leading up to Lincoln's assassinations. I was generally unfamiliar with the story so I found much of interest in Mr. Bishop's account. It is more than a timeline, as he deftly delves into the life of each major participant. For instance I had no idea that there were co-conspirators and that other officials including the Vice President were targeted that day. This is my first foray into Civil War history, and I know I shall read much more as a result of the interest kindled here.
“The Day Lincoln was Shot,” traces the events leading up to the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln on April 14, 1865, and its aftermath. It chronicles the movements of Lincoln and his assassin John Wilkes Booth during every movement of that fateful day. Author and journalist Jim Bishop has fashioned an unforgettable tale of tragedy, more gripping than fiction, more alive than any newspaper account. A truly well-written book that will make you feel as if you lived every minute the day that Lincoln was shot.
This was an excellent, factual history of the 24 hour period (plus a few hours and a couple chapters of background) surrounding Lincoln's death. The book reads like a novel (probably due as much to the event itself as the writing) and is very well researched. The author is clear about his intentions and about what portions of the book are his best guesses rather than uncontroverted fact. This is not just the story of Lincoln and John Wilkes Booth, but rather provides great information about all the conspirators in the plot to overthrow and kill Lincoln, Johnson, and Seward.
I read this book ages ago, yet I still remember how it grabbed hold of me and wouldn't let go. Let's face it, we all know how the story ends, so no surprises there. Yet the author absolutely made these few days in history come alive. And I really had / have no interest in this time period. Well, at least not from a Northener's perspective. Gone With The Wind had made such an impression on me that I was never a Lincoln fan.This book was fascinating. I highly recommend it.
Jim Bishop was working on another book about a day in the life of JFK when the assassination occurred. This book followed. It's as detailed as the one he wrote about Lincoln's assassination. On Nov.22, 1963 I was student teaching a class of ninth graders in World Geography at a high school in Virginia. The principal came on the intercom and announced the death. The nation was glued to the TV for several days. What a nightmare.
An hour-by-hour account of the last day of Abraham Lincoln. One of the most fascinating books on Lincoln that I've ever read. You might think that the structure of the book might be too small of a canvas to really get a good picture of the characters, but Bishop does not confine himself to that one day. The details show a personal side to Lincoln as a man and the people around him that I found refreshing. This book is not to be missed!
An interesting personal approach to Lincoln's final day, this book really makes me feel "there," present for every event, hour by hour, and occasionally times before or after. At times there were monotonous descriptive bits, but they never detracted too much to the books entertainment value, paired with facts. Of course, I'm just a disinterested student, so I didn't love it, but it's not something to hate.
Outstanding depiction of the last twenty-four hours of President Abraham Lincoln. Very well written--hard to put down. This book also follows the activities of John Wilkes Booth and his conspirators, as well as the other characters in this world-rocking event. I was touched by Lincoln's premonitions of his own fate, and by his gentle stoicism in the face of his huge responsibilities.
Honey I'm in award-winning historian and this is one of the books that originally began my fascination with history. While later scholarship is drawn some of the conclusions into question, no one has equaled Jim Bishop for his ability to write serious history and see if it was a novel bringing to life personality, coincidence and climate
"I thought this book was interesting for the most part but a little boring in places. Most of the time it told of his life and John Wilkes Booth with all the conspirators, but then Bishop added in little stories of other peoples lives that weren't relative to Abrahan Lincoln. Overall though I thought it was a really well done book."
