https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119247.The_Great_Brain
And he's loved almost all of them (I selected them carefully, from the books I loved best as I child and teen).But so far, I think he loves the Great Brain series best.Partly, I think that because they're so accessible.
I can't think of higher praise for a book for children.Each chapter in this book is a self-contained story, written in a beautifully straightforward style that some have compared to that of Mark Twain.
But the stories are so entertaining that it doesn't matter.A warning: the original edition and most later reissues are perfectly illustrated by Mercer Meyer.
The good news is that Mayer's classic, gorgeous, marvelous drawings are still included inside the books.
You'll never be able to read Fitzgerald without Mayer, after you've read them together.Anyway, big gripe I've had for YEARS.I started reading these in fourth grade after my teacher read "The Great Brain" to us in class.
Very good reading that adults and children will enjoy equally, and which gives an insight into some of the diversity that actually does exist in Utah, which is forgotten completely in most other Mormon and even non-Mormon fiction books based in Utah.
A solid, wonderful children's book with the spirit of Tom Sawyer. I highly enjoyed this one.
adding this because goodreads recommended I read it after Caraval... and how could I  ever  refuse a goodreads recommendation? how??
Fitzgerald was raised in Price, Utah, and based the Great Brain series on the childhood antics of his super-smart, flimflamming older brother, Tom. The books are written in the first-person voice of “J.D.” (based on the young John D.
The central theme of the Great Brain series is the insecurities of childhood and the occasional blurring of the boundary between a warm and safe domestic world and the dangers of a mysterious adult world.As a kid, I read these books perceiving Tom as the protagonist and hero.
As a young person, I read his novel Papa Married a Mormon, but it did not enchant me as did the Great Brain series.
My husband who was reading it, skimmed over it, because The Five-Year-Old wasn't in a good place to deal with the sadness or the reasons for the death (she was having a tough night already).
I mention it because you may want to read this book before sharing it with your children, so that you'll be prepared for the questions they'll have about some of the tough subjects it raises.
You'll want to be prepared to deal with questions stemming from that -- or to simply address it head on while your child is reading this book.
My modern day sensitivities got in the way again when, in the last chapter of this book I read out loud to my boys, I started reading about peg leg Andy who wanted to commit suicide because he was plumb useless.
I continued to read about the different ideas the boys came up with to do in Andy, and tried to figure out what I could make up to pretend the story was over and get out of reading the last 10 or so pages of the book.
The entire time I read this book, I couldn't help but compare the unstructured childhood described in this book with today's highly structured children.
The boys in this book experienced a freedom that is not found today....
There would be very, very little tolerance in this day and age for many of the pranks described in this book...
My son adored this book....
I didn't think it was QUITE as funny as I had remembered from all those many years ago - but perhaps this is because I'm now reading it from the perspective of a parent and I find myself cringing just a little, even while chuckling....

Want to learn how to charge people to see a toilet flush? Need to learn to swim, or walk with a peg leg? Find your way out of a dangerous cave? Get rid of a strict teacher? Ask the Great Brain, Thomas "T.D." Fitzgerald. Set in the early days of Utah statehood (1896)in southern Utah, John "J.D." Fitzgerald recounts the amazing and mind blowing stunts and escapades of he and his brothers, among the minority of Catholics in a predominantly Mormon community. When the "Great Brain" puts his mind to work, anything can happen!Ingenious and hilarious, a very good read!
An old children's classic told by ten year old JD about the simple and humorous boyhood adventures encountered while growing up in 1896 with his older beloved brother Tom, The Great Brain.
Tom is the older brother everyone should have, even though he mostly uses his " great brain" to figure out a way to make every situation most profitable for himself, he usually lets his little brother tag along for the adventure and in the end...
I think all my age 30 something kids read this in their late elementary years, and my copy with the original Mercer Meyer illustrations is in-scripted with " Erin's favorite book in 4th grade.
I LOVED this series as a child and re-reading it with my girls was just as fun as I hoped.
Simply terrible.
Morality, compassion, and ethics are not slogans to be captured under headers like "gender" or "immigration"; tolerance isn't something practiced by silent, knowing looks; these are things best encountered in three dimensions, with fully-fleshed out conflicts that have no easily identified "right" or "wrong." Fitzgerald's characters do this quite well, with J.D. playing the role of the audience, vocalizing reservations and conventional, quick-to-judge platitudes while Tom, always eager to profit, literally, from whatever situation arises, finds a way to complicate J.D.'s judgements, and, thereby, ours.
I think I will hang onto this one until I'm quite sure my nephew can read it for himself and, thus, judge it for himself.
It's not often one reads fiction set in 19th century Utah, and this is an interesting perspective from the Fitzgeralds--Sweyn, Tom and John--three Catholic boys who grew up circa 1896 in Utah's Dixie, in the small fictionalized Mormon town of Adenville (the author in fact was born and raised in Carbon County).What I did not remember was the narcissism of Tom Fitzgerald, the so-called "Great Brain," whose great brain frequently is credited both by himself and others as the source of invaluable problem solving and heroics at home, school and throughout the town.
I'm on a children's book kick. Liked this book as a child and enjoyed as an adult. The little incidents are funny yet it's frustrating to see the "Great Brain" manipulate the situations into his favor. The "Great Brain" probably turned out to be very rich and was already conniving. A good, fun read.
4 1\2 stars. Very funny. Excellent. 8+.
My husband and I took turns reading this to our 7.5-year-old son.
There is no major plot but is instead mostly small, vignette type stories of boyhood experiences that the main character had with his older brother and their group of friends.
The “great brain” is the main character’s big brother and so the book is full of fun sibling rivalry as well as interesting tidbits about life in a turn-of-the-century town.
My son and husband both found many of the predicaments funny and I often heard them laughing out loud when they were reading together.
This was fun.
I hadn't read this book since I was in elementary.
At the time, I hadn't read Tom Sawyer.
As I was listening to this book, I couldn't help but feel that Tom Fitzgerald was very much like Tom Sawyer.
I know the books were loosely based on John Fitzgerald's life, but given the fact that the book was set in 1896 and he wasn't even born until 1906, I wish I knew how much of it was real and how much of it was fictitious.
I will probably continue with the other books at some point in time.
I loved this series as a kid, and read it multiple times back then. 30 years later, I still find it to be an enjoyable read--a humorous, semi-autobiographical account (from a youngest child's perspective) of growing up in a non-Mormon family in 1890s Utah.
Probably my 15th or 16th time re-reading the series - doing it as part of a group read.Brilliant as always. This book is the best of the best of children's literature.
Move out the way, Encyclopedia Brown – here comes The Great Brain!The Story.I don’t know how my older brother does it.
Let me just say – The Great Brain has Encyclopedia way trumped, both as a character and as a series.
In the closing paragraph, John writes,“Things got mighty dull after The Great Brain decided to give up his crooked ways and to walk the straight and narrow.
; )In the last story, Andy has lost his leg and decides that the world and his friends would be better off without him.
rtc but can I just say the JD-TD combo is the WORST brother pair you will ever read of. JD is the most thick-headed kid I've ever met and TD is the most annoying. But the stories are interesting and it did happen to the author - at least, some of it did. But it's still annoying that TD gets away with everything while JD gets away with nothing.
Great storytelling. Charming tales of a boy- swindler, reminiscent of Tom Sawyer.
When my mom took us we had always shared a happy meal, but somehow my sister talked my dad into letting us each get our own.
There are many accurate references to Mormons throughout the book, although the family of the main character are not members.Problem I: There is a child's game the boys play called "Jack _ _ _" (you fill in the blanks).
I think I will recommend it to my son, but I will be sure to have conversations with him about the mention of suicide in the book.
However, one of the most memorable things I read as a child was contained in this book.
His story was one that stayed with me forever.Some things that I am thinking now as an adult:These stories are WAY more mature than I remembered.
The stories teach valuable lessons, but I think a kid has to reach a certain age (maybe nine or ten) to understand them.Another thought is that I am left wondering how much was fact and how much was fiction.
It was just very matter of fact about the way things were back then (and perhaps still are.)
Each chapter is another trick or Tom's own way of making money.
It was so funny and all the schemes and tricks Tom played were so genius, it made me wish i could think up those type of tricks as quickly as he could.
Every chapter was capturing and i couldn't stay away from it.
It was an amazing book.I would suggest it to anyone who likes books that are funny, but also exciting.
It makes the whole book better and i think everyone should read it.
This book was a childhood favorite.
Written from the perspective of J.D (John Dennis), the stories revolve primarily around his brother Tom--T.D. Something I didn't notice the first hundred times I read it is that J.D. is also the initials of the author, John D.
This technique also reminded me structurally of The Great Gatsby in that Nick Carroway relays Gatsby's story.
It's nice sometimes to remember in these turbulent times that though the world can be chaotic, there can also be peace in the center, a return to the simpler times of childhood and the pleasure of reading a wonderful book.
I love children's literature that makes you think, and is less concerned with the moral of the story than the idea of you figuring out how to solve your problems on your own.
By default, most children's literature presents a moral, but I adored these books for making me THINK.
is the lovable Great Brain, and many of his schemes make a younger reader appreciate the peaks and pitfalls of relying on your own knowledge and learning from your mistakes.
I definitely recommend this to parents who want to encourage their children to read more than just the "typical" Harry Potter books.
They're still great fun to re-read now, even in my 20's.
It's been a long time since I last read these books, and I really enjoyed jumping back into the series with this book!
Tom Fitzgerald(a.k.a. The Great Brain) is a born con-man, able to turn any situation to his financial advantage.
There is a lot of humor, but also a lot of warmth at the end of the book.
Sometimes I felt that Tom was going too far with his schemes, but he really redeemed himself at the end.
However, anyone who has read this series knows that The Great Brain will soon be back to his mischievous ways!
