https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/768987.This_Sweet_Sickness
Επικοινωνεί μαζι της καθημερινά αν και τις περισσότερες φορες χωρίς ανταπόκριση κατι που δεν τον πτοεί ποτε αντιθέτως τον δυναμώνει να συνεχίζει να εξελίσσεται ως άνθρωπος για να τελειοποιησει αυτη την μοναδική αποκορύφωση της ευτυχίας που θα επιτευχθεί με την δίκη της αποδοχή της λατρείας του .Διπολικός; Μπορεί αλλα ακομη και ως κάποιος άλλος στα χαρτιά ή στην ταυτότητα παραμένει ο ίδιος ο παρανοϊκός λάτρης της,ο εμμονικος προστάτης της,ο επικίνδυνα πιστός και αφοσιωμένος άντρας που αγάπησε με όλο το "αρρωστημένο του ειναι"αδιαφορώντας για τα ¨παντα¨.Υποφέρει απο μια γλυκιά αρρώστια που ειναι θάνατος και ανάσταση μαζι.ειναι το νόημα της ζωής του ειναι τα τραγικά πληγωμένα αισθήματα του που ¨παντα¨ γιατρεύονται μονο με τη σκέψη ΤΗΣ!
Θα ηθελα ενα ψέμμα για το τελος ομως μάλλον όλη η αλήθεια ηταν μια παράφορη γλυκιά απάτη με τραγική κατάληξη αλλα και ανακουφιστική απελευθέρωσηΚαλή ανάγνωση!Πολλούς ασπασμούς.
It builds at a needed pace (yet so slowly that at the halfway mark I started to wonder if I should continue) until with only a quarter left, it flares.
Then it’s too late, there’s absolutely nothing you can do to put it out.In the beginning you might even relate to one or two of David’s obsessions.
This is all told from his point-of-view and it’s due to Highsmith’s sleight-of-hand that the reader is able to see more than he does.In that last-quarter flare I found the best prose: from a memorable passage about spoken words still certainly existing somewhere to the powerful last sentence.
We learn that he leads a double life, that his friends are not all that they are cracked up to be, and that Annabelle… Well, the less said about Annabelle, the better.The problem is that David’s obsessions have taken over his life and we spend a great deal of page time watching David living a life on the edge, where anything might tip him over at any moment.It must be great, David thought, really great to have such a high, unchallengeable opinion of oneself, to think that everything one did or possessed or thought or maybe even felt was the best and the finest in the world!And because this is a Highsmith novel, and if we know anything by now it is that the author loved to torment her characters to see what they are made of, the house of cards that David has so carefully constructed comes crashing down one winter’s day.(view spoiler)[I truly disliked all of the main characters in this novel.
This was the perfect first book for any year. Gripping. Quirky. Chilling. Sinister. I do love it when Patricia Highsmith writes about her 'psychopathic-heroes' and David is one of her finest. It's uncomfortable and odd, just like him. I thought it was really great. I love how she slowly draws you in and then forcefully grabs you and won't let go.
He has a room in a boardinghouse there during the week; over his weekends he goes to a lovely home he owns elsewhere, which he'd bought under the name of William Neumeister, "who had never failed at anything, at least nothing important...
" His fellow residents at Mrs. McCartney's boardinghouse know nothing about either Neumeister nor Kelsey's home -- when asked where he goes every weekend, he tells them he is visiting his mother at a nursing home.
It seems that David goes home each weekend looking for letters from the only woman he's ever loved, Annabelle.
David Kelsey is a strange character that really gets under your skin.
A chilling look at what happens when a man's house of lies comes crashing down and the ramifications of living a double life.
Even though David is obviously a crazily obsessed man in love with a woman who does not reciprocate it is her character that I have the most problem with.
I couldn't help thinking she was narcissist in allowing his obsession to get out of hand...hasn't she ever heard of a restraining order!??!
But I guess that's what makes this such a deliciously delirious book that I simply couldn't get enough of!
και σε αυτό συμβάλλει καί το γεγονός ότι η ίδια η Χάισμιθ αποτελεί από μόνη της μια εναλλακτική πρόταση για τους μελετητές και αναγνώστες αστυνομικής λογοτεχνίας.
Σε αυτό το βιβλίο, έχει δώσει τέτοιο ψυχολογικό βάθος και εσωτερικότητα στους ήρωές της, τα οποία καταλήγουν να δημιουργούν μια κλειστοφοβική ατμόσφαιρα και την αίσθηση ενός επικείμενου κινδύνου.Το συγκεκριμένο μυθιστόρημα δεν είναι εύκολο να διαβαστεί, ωστόσο, αν ο αναγνώστης καταλάβει τους κεντρικούς ήρωες, τα κίνητρά των πράξεών τους, και κάνει λίγο υπομονή, στο τέλος, θα αποζημιωθεί.
Από τον τίτλο του βιβλίου, αλλά και την περίληψη, περίμενα να διαβάσω μια εντελώς διαφορετική ιστορία.
Μια εντελώς διαφορετική εποχή, χαρακτήρες που το φέρσιμό τους και οι συμπεριφορές τους ποικίλλουν, προσφέροντας ποικιλία και στην ίδια την αφήγηση, και μια τραγική ερωτική ιστορία, με δύο εξίσου τραγικούς πρωταγωνιστές.Ο Ντέιβιντ μπορεί σε κάποιους να φάνηκε αντιπαθητικός, σ’ εμένα όμως προσωπικά προκάλεσε λύπη και συμπόνοια.
Από την άλλη, η Άναμπελ είναι εξίσου τραγική ηρωίδα, μιας και πυροδοτεί τα πάθη του Ντέιβιντ – άθελά της και εν αγνοία της, βέβαια – αναγκαζόμενη όμως να υποστεί τις συνέπειες των δικών του πράξεων.

I sort of identify with the main character. You have a crush on a girl. For fun you imagine your life with her. Maybe getting an apartment together. The thing is you don't know her at all - but still a daydream. Nothing wrong with that right? And this is where Patricia Highsmith comes in and makes it really creepy and weird. She has a genius to get under one's psychie skin and make it sound really reasonable. A totally unique visionary writer who is very truthful regarding the moment when you are alone and daydreaming....
Es bueno y trepidante pero se parece tanto a A pleno sol (El talento de Mr Ripley) q no he podido disfrutarlo al 100%
Η Patricia Highsmith είναι χωρίς αμφιβολία μια διαχρονική αξία στον χώρο της αστυνομικής λογοτεχνίας και μας έχει χαρίσει μερικά από τα καλύτερα δείγματα του είδους, όπως είναι η σειρά με τον Tom Ripley, το ''Cry of the Owl'', το ''Deep Water'' κ.α.
Σε αυτό το βιβλίο συναντάμε για μια ακόμη φορά το σήμα κατατεθέν της συγγραφέως, δηλαδή ψυχικά διαταραγμένους αντί-ήρωες, των οποίων οι εμμονές και οι ψυχαναγκαστικές συμπεριφορές οδηγούν την εξέλιξη της πλοκής.
Ωστόσο, αυτό δεν καταβάλλει τον Ντέιβ, ο οποίος προοδευτικά εκδηλώνει μια ολοένα επιθετικότερη, στα όρια της ψυχωσης, συμπεριφορά που οδηγεί σε μια προδιαγεγραμμένη, μοιραία κατάληξη.
'If something was damaged, it might be repaired.'I love a classic schizo-thriller, they are hilarious, and this was unbelievably page-turnery. And it works because of that little bass-note of hope which Highsmith keeps giving us, like maybe everything will be ok? Obvs, you know it won't, but that suspension of the inevitable is glorious and awful and right at the end just whacks you in the heart.
Δεν μπορώ να πω ότι μου άρεσε, ούτε ότι με άγγιξε. Εκείνο που με ενοχλεί σε κάποια βιβλία είναι τα βαρύγδουπα λόγια των εκδοτικών οίκων στο εξώφυλλο. Ένας αναγνώστης όταν τα διαβάζει δημιουργεί κάποιες προσδοκίες για τα βιβλία που δεν εκπληρώνονται.
Πειράζει που ενώ ο κεντρικός ήρωας είχε "θέματα" που θα λάτρευα να δω σε μυθιστόρημα, το συγκεκριμένο με απογοήτευσε πλήρως? Το βρήκα πολύ ανιαρό. Θα μπορούσε ίσως με λιγότερες λεπτομέρειες να έχει περισσότερη δράση. Δεν μου θύμισε Highsmith το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο.
This was not one of my favorite Highsmith books.
David is obsessed with Annabelle who is married to Gerald.
He tries to woo her with letters and Annabelle has a very passive aggressive way of dealing with him.
Gerald naturally objects to David's persistent attentions.
Thereafter, the book is all about the lies David tells to everyone he knows.
Since different lies were told to each party I don't know how David kept track of them without a spreadsheet.
The book held my interest, but I was glad that it was short.
On the other hand, the novel seems interested more generally in the irrational and potentially destructive nature of love, given that major secondary characters--Kelsey's friend Wes; or Effie, the girl who loves Kelsey --also have deeply problematic sexual relations or obsessions.
Indeed, she is arguably on the verge of stalkerish herself.That the plot depends on Kelsey accidentally killing not one but two people--Annabelle's husband, and then Effie--also adds a degree of the implausible/melodramatic to the story, but it's also more interesting to have Kelsey as a sort of hapless figure than what has come to be the stereotype of stalker as implacable killer.Anyway, this is not really a crime novel, despite the two killings, but more of a psychological study.
Re-reading one of my favorite books by my favorite authors. This was my second time, and I didn't love it quite as much as I did a decade ago. My one complaint is that it's too long (typical of me). But altogether still brilliant. About unrequited love and fantasy, it is told from the perspective of the one in the throes of these plagues, skewing the reader's view and expectations as he is shown as more and more insane.
I really liked this book and read it with the same horrified fascination I would have for a rattler headed right for my left leg. Super.
Highsmith at what she knows best, writing a both realistic and deeply disturbing story. Having read the first installments of the Ripliad, it was clear that the main character was really an early version of Mr Ripley, so if you enjoyed any book of the Mr Ripley Series, be sure to read This Sweet Sickness too.
Fanfriggingtastic!! No one but Highsmith can put my stomach in such knots!! This was SO good, I can't believe they never made a movie out it. When all I want to do is ignore life and read, you know it's a good story!!
Highsmith chose an interesting parallel in the character of Effie Brennan, a plain girl, as David Kelsey sees her, who is madly in love with the protagonist for seemingly fewer reasons that the protagonist has for the woman he obsesses over.
In an interesting contrast, (view spoiler)[Effie does act questionably once, when she pries into David's privacy, but for the most part she's just a sweet girl in love with the wrong guy.
Half drunk, she chooses to sleep in the most unfortunate place (hide spoiler)].All in all, great characterization and an interesting, tense plot.
Highsmith manages to create protagonists who are despicable, yet fascinating, and this potent mix certainly isn't lost in this novel.
The setting also serves as the only really stable thing for a man who frenetically jumps back and forth between happiness and misery, which all leads to a very unsettling last few pages.
As we read, we watch this man slowly descend into madness in a way that only Highsmith can describe with such clarity.
Ο τίτλος του βιβλίου σε προϊδεάζει όσον αφορά τις ψυχολογικές μεταπτώσεις και τις συνέπειες του έρωτα στην "διπλή" ζωή του Ντέιβιντ.
Το επίθετο που συνοδεύει το ουσιαστικό "αρρώστια" αποτελεί λογοπαίγνιο της Patricia Highsmith, μιας κι ο έρωτας σε κάθε περίπτωση θεωρείται γλυκός λόγω της αισιοδοξίας και των συναισθημάτων που καλλιεργεί ακόμα κι αν ο έρωτας είναι μονόπλευρος ή πλατωνικός.
Δεν είναι από τα βιβλία που θα δυσκολευτείς να μαντέψεις την πλοκή και το τελικό αποτέλεσμα...στοιχείο που δεν μου επέτρεψε να βαθμολογήσω με περισσότερα αστέρια.
Γενικά θα σημείωνα ότι το πρώτο μέρος του βιβλίου ήταν φλύαρο και μονότονο, σε αντίθεση που το δεύτερο ήταν γρήγορο κι αποκαλυπτικό.
Among my favorite of Highsmith's novels, and definitely the most depraved. You just want to take a shower after being forced to sympathize and identify with a deluded stalker for a couple hundred pages. Nobody gets misogyny like Highsmith, probably because she hated men and women equally and could therefore inhabit the POV of a misogynist with natural ease. Only snails get off scot-free in Highsmith's world.
Jump Fool!!!!I like the way Highsmith's writing and it was the only thing that kept me reading. The story itself did not interest me whatsoever. The characters were all unlikable and in fact I had no interest in whether they died or not. So in closing don't read this book. If this was the first book of hers I'd read i wouldn't read anymore
Me ha gustado mucho la novela.
No es de acción, pero a veces el pensamiento humano es mucho más intrigante que sus conductas.
Y David Kelsey piensa mucho, tiene una gran "vida interior"La construcción de los personajes, especialmente la del protagonista, es magnífica.
Con los segundarios (a David le dedica mucho más tiempo) bastan unas pinceladas, unas frases sueltas para transmitirnos su (falta de) personalidad.Highsmith es especialista en crear personajes aislados, egoistas, sociópatas o desagradables; la peor versión del ser humano.
Dicen que ella misma era una misógina, y es lo que transmite en sus novelas.
The main character was doomed from the beginning & the painfulness of reading this was that it was so obvious.
DON'T READ THIS IF YOU'RE FEELING LONELY!
Don't read this if you're feeling hopeless!
I certainly feel worse from having read it.
These days, I suppose, this wd be called a stalker novel.
But, no, of course Highsmith wdn't let that happen - his pathetic obsessiveness had to be written thru to its 'natural' conclusion.
Let this novel be a warning to anyone inclined in the 'romantic' direction that the main guy here was - but, of course, chances are it wdn't work.
Reading This Sweet Sickness is like listening to Ravel's Bolero.
He is in love with a married woman who isn't in love with him.
We notice David's social awkwardness, his mild obsession.
There are the weekends he spends in a nearby town living an obsessed and secret life pretending to be married to Annabelle - ah, like Bolero, the tension builds.Highsmith is a master of applying thin layers to each scene or beat of the novel so that a relentless and inevitable direction is set for her protagonist.
Ah Miss Highsmith, you never wrote a book I didn't love (well...except 'Ripley Under Water' but that was on me not you).
I love the way Patricia Highsmith can take a minor, everyday scenario such as a man in love with a woman he cannot have, and turn it into something so insidious.
She is the master of turning good people bad, at finding the evils that lurk deep down below in our psyches.
In short I loved every single minute of this book, a must, must, must read for those who enjoy watching an awkward situation become a very dark one.
