https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/502406.Curious_George_Takes_a_Job
I just reread this to my little niece.
She's read at least one other George book.
The scenes I remember best from when was tiny are the part where he gets tangled up in spaghetti and when he paints all over the stranger's apartment when he's supposed to be washing the windows and NOT being curious.
Hopefully my niece won't try painting anything.
This was written back when few people were concerned about animal rights or conditions in zoos, and it shows.
What tiny cages!
No wonder George wanted to get away.
I remember thinking even as a small child that the Man was not a very good friend.
This classic has several parts to the story - first he gets out of his cage and avoids capture inside the zoo, then he makes his way around the city on a bus, then gets into mischief at a restaurant, then at an apartment building, then makes a movie. Quite a ride. Again, I appreciate the way it captures the attention of my 4-year-old even though it's longer than many other picture books.
My son from birth has always been surrounded with Curious George. Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay. He loves the cartoons on PBS as well. For me, I remember as a kid going to my ped. for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room. Luckily it was always available in the waiting room. A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&amp
Today at the ripe old age of 3 he travels everywhere with his stuffed George doll, and morning cuddle time he is a mainstay.
for Dr. appts, always looking for a certain George book, (George Goes to the Hospital) for the waiting room.
A couple years ago I found a beautiful hardcover boxset at B&N that I thought would make a great Xmas gift for my son, and it included the Hospital book along with this one.
The simplicity and innocense of the time period when written is highly apparent which for me I want for my son.
I love animal stories . So, i had to try out this book. I was not disappointed . All all a thrilling story right from the escape from the zoo, the sad time at the hospital and the Jobs in a Movie. It really wonderful
I just read this to my 4yr old nephew. He loves being read to which makes reading out loud so much fun! Curious George is a classic!
George escapes captivity, becomes a slave, and suffers workplace injury
Very cute story where George takes a job and gets into mischief. Love these sweet stories.
Check out more picture book reviews @ Perspective of a Writer...Curious George escapes his cage at the zoo and learns he must get a job.
After getting into some trouble he is saved by the Man in the Yellow Hat.My nephew LOVES these books and I never fail to get a giggle out of him when we read these together but I can't help disliking them.
Stll I'll keep reading them with him since he loves them so much...BOTTOM LINE: If your child loves them, check out from the library.______________________You can find this review and many others on my book blog @ Perspective of a Writer.
I am not a Curious George fan.
The man in the yellow hat stole George from Africa.
But in this book, George is in a zoo.
By the end of the book, the man in the yellow hat has reclaimed George to pawn him off as a movie star.
This is, of course, after George mucks up everything from when he escaped the zoo.
At one point George becomes high off of sniffing ether.
Entirely dated!Why would a restaurant owner not freak out if he found a monkey in his kitchen?
Who would hire a monkey to be a window washer?
This is another really sad book.First cute little monkey George is ripped from his homeland and brought to the industrial world. Then he gets a job. One would think that a monkey would be allowed to chill out and not have to spend life as a wage slave. Those would be logical monkey perks. But no, cute little George takes a job. Sigh.I would have given this book only one star, but I have to give it at least two stars just because George is so darn cute.
George took a job. we all know he's gunna suck at it. like he does at EVERYTHING GOD MADE TO DO!!!I'm gunna go ahead and say it. it was pretty heckin' good. Just do this special and confused author a favor and read the "book" and give it 5 stars, beacuse it deserves it.
Even better than the first one!
About damn time, Curious George!
While Curious George, taken in the context of a curiously over intelligent but playfully curious animal friend (not unique in the book world), is fun, Curious George and hundreds, if not thousands, of other books like it, deserve to have their social and historical background explained, never as excuses, but to give reference and information on how not to be a racist ethnocentric asshat.
We learn from our history, and this series is one of those that deserves to tell all of its history.
This book is racist.
The whole series is racist.
I'm learning Spanish, and wanted to start reading real books.
So I thought, what is my reading level right now?
I could read most everything, but there were still sections that challenged me.
What is fun about this particular book is that they have not edited out the part where Jorge el Curioso passes out from smelling ether: "¡Olía Raro!"Also, the earlier reviewer writing that this is about white colonialism has a point.
For a sensitive contemporary reader, we can certainly see how pernicious an attitude that was in 1947.
For those who are more sensitive and put everything into a contemporary context, beware.
Genre: modern fantasy grade: Early Primary Curious George Takes a Job is a wonderful book about everyone's favorite Curious money.
The illustrations in this book are beautiful.
This book appears to have been an inspiration when they adapted George into a TV series both for character ideas but also how those characters would look.
the book itself is a very good with a plot twist that ended George in the hospital and later into a movie.
I recommend this book to anyone and especially to any child who likes the Curious George TV series.
George sneaks out of the zoo and decides that he wants a job. He jumps from job to job going where his curiosity leads him until he gets in trouble and hurts his leg. The man with the yellow hat wants to help George get his own movie and helps him sign a contract. Everybody that George met while job hunting comes to the premiere and the movie is about George's life and his signature curiosity.
Curious George is such a well realized character, he seems inevitable. Who can be more appealing than a curious young monkey, who sets off with silent humor and good will to find out where he is and his place in the world? Read the whole collection with your young children.
Curious George stories are extra nice because of their content and length and development of the story. (Parents likely note their length at bedtime...) They are written well and not oversimplified and have illustrations and characters that draw in both children and adults.
The older Curious George books seem so different from the newer ones. One illustration shows a man smoking a cigar, which doesn't offend me, but it may offend some readers. It's fun to see the origin of what is now so popular.
This is one of my favorites, where George gets into the ether.
Curious George escapes from the zoo and works in different jobs. A cute story about a curious, and mischievous, little monkey.
Book 2 is even more interesting than Book 1. The monkey has remained nothing but curious. Well, the better for the readers when George was curious.
3.5 Stars
Silly monkey
Curios George finally gets employed so he can make some money.
3* art2* story
Curious George Takes a Job is a book about a curious little monkey that is brought to a zoo from the jungle.
When the painters are gone, George sneaks in the apartment, paints the wall into a jungle, get's in huge trouble once the painters come back and jumps from tree to tree once he gets out of the window.
George quickly learned his lesson about listening to what you are told because he would always end up in a mess if he didn't.
The cook, upon finding a monkey in his kitchen, doesn't call the zoo or animal control, but instead puts George to work.
The restaurant kitchen.Yeah....Upon seeing how handy George can be, the cook takes the monkey to a skyscraper where his (the cook's) friend offers him a job cleaning windows.
(No mention of the zoo escape, however.) George's friend, still in his poacher outfit, sees the headlines and calls the hospital, demanding they let him have George.Fast forward an unspecified amount of time.
You might ask, “What do you think will happen next?”• Remember to give your child time to think about the question and respond.• Take your child to the library to check out books and attend story hours.• If your child shows an interest in a picture either by talking about it or pointing to it, follow up immediately by asking questions and letting your child answer.Most important, have fun reading to your child!Curious George and related characters, created by Margret and H.
