https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21410633-the-cheltenham-square-murder
Poor Superintendent William Meredith can’t get any rest even when on holiday.
In The Cheltenham Square Murder, Meredith is visiting crime writer Aldous Barnet.
(They first met in The Sussex Downs Murder, the second book in the Meredith series; this book is the third).
He works tirelessly and explores all avenues — sometimes following false trails, sometimes bumping into a dead end and having to double-back — until he brings down the culprit.
I thoroughly enjoyed following Meredit through his peregrinations, and I can’t wait to join him in his next book!
It also seemed like a very cool idea for the second killing to then be a red herring, making it seem as though the first one was a mistake and therefore any motives or opportunity that applied to the first one could be washed out… (hide spoiler)], but what seemed absolutely obvious to me was that what everyone thought was the method – an archer's shot from across the square – was, in point of fact, not.
I, said the sparrow...The people who live in Regency Square in Cheltenham form a little community set somewhat apart from the rest of the town.
Unfortunately for the murderer, Superintendent Meredith is visiting a friend in the square at the time, and the local police quickly enlist his help......which is a wonder really, since on the basis of this he's not terribly good at his job!
Things were different back then, of course, as can be seen when the police pick up the body, carry it across the square, and leave it unattended on the captain's own bed till the inquest.
Continuing with my readings of the British Library Crime Classics with The Cheltenham Square Murder by John Bude.
I like to read stories from the 1920s - 1940s....it's a time period so different from today.
This story dragged for me.
lt could have been 50 pages shorter as the detectives discussed and discussed the clues regarding the people who lived in the ten houses that border Cheltenham Square.
they have narrowed it down to two or three people, then two.
I hoped it might all be resolved then, but oh no, five more chapters to go!
Push on, finally, the last chapter clears it all up.
And all are very well practised with the bow and arrow.The local police are called in, with Inspector Long leading the investigation, and fortunately for them they are able to call on the expertise of Superintendent Meredith of the Sussex County Constabulary for he is spending part of his holiday in the Square with his friend Aldous Barnet, a crime writer who is planning a book about the police and who wants to use Meredith's knowledge.The author has introduced all the residents of the Square prior to the murder so when the investigation begins the reader is aware of who is who but it does become obvious that any number of the Square's residents have something to hide.
Two and a half stars.Having enjoyed the other books by John Bude that have been re-published by The British Library, I was rather disappointed with this one. While the murder method was novel, the rest of the plot seemed to me to be rather pedestrian. Not a bad book by any means though. I found it easy to figure out whodunit but it was impossible to know how it was done. Unsatisfactory and sudden ending.
What the hell?
Then out of nowhere in the chapter “a shocking conclusion” an entirely new piece of information got dropped out of nowhere.
“oh by the way he did X thing all the time, which should have been something naturally mentioned right at the first chapter, which gave him all the opportunity” “oh but of course!
Bude is like painting by numbers suitable for age 8-10 years old, if you want cosy, interesting, and predictably safe then just go for wentworth and save your time.
Not that I could figure out the solution, I was wrong right up to almost the last page.
Strong motives, false clues, red herrings, multiple crimes, and conspiracies kept me completely mystified.
The crime was committed, the police called in, and they work to a solution.
Could that bit of info you’re so sure is vitally important really be just another red herring, or is it the key to the whole mystery?
Trying to untangle it was fun even if I didn’t actually get the right solution.
I received this book as a free ARC from NetGalley and Poison Pen Press.
Many of the residents belong to an archery club so when one of the residents is murdered with an arrow it seems somehow appropriate and provides the police with plenty of suspects.I enjoyed the way the author introduces the various characters and sketches in their personalities and backgrounds.
I have read most of these British Library Crime Classics and enjoyed them all.
It is good to see these classic crime novels back in print and many of them have stood the test of time and read well nearly a hundred years after they were first published.
A jolly good 1937 whodunnit by John Bude, one of the better such authors of the time.In the book, opposite the start of chapter 1, we have a map of Regency Square, with ten houses along three sides of it.
Site lines are opened!When a resident, sitting on a balcony, is killed by an arrow, which must, from its trajectory, have been fired from another window/balcony, and when the residents have many reasons to dislike one another, and when many of them are members of an archery club .......Luckily, a crime writer is staying at his sister's house in the square, and he knows Superintendent Meredith, who many of us have met in earlier books.
This is a perfectly competent, well-written, classic detective story. It is hard to say anything negative about it, and unfortunately equally hard to say anything very positive about it. It is a deft puzzle with a a complicated murder plot, red herrings by the cartload, sketchy characters, and traditional elaboration of time and place. But it doesn't grow beyond that. It is occasionally funny -- but generally unmemorable.
Quite elaborate deductive work. Slow pace, but interesting. However many times during my reading I wondered why an obvious suspect was being ignored..And turned out that he was the killer!! Restricting to 3 stars for the pace of the book..
A very frustrating read. The pace was dreadfully slow and I seemed to have worked out the clues long before the detectives which may be gratifying but I got bored waiting for them to catch up.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...

Captain Cotton was having a drink with his friend Mr. Buller when he was killed by an arrow.
That was certainly unexpected in a quiet residential square in a pleasant spa town.
Fortunately, Inspector Meredith was visiting his friend in another house in the square, and the local police were delighted to have him investigate with them.
Then the police procedures start on their way, at least as they were organized in the earlier parts of the last century.
Any fan of current procedurals will be shocked at the way the body was handled--bundled next door by three policemen, wrapped in a sheet!
Bude gets better and better as he continues to pen these fun golden-age mysteries set in various spots around England in the era before WWII. His sleuth, Inspector Meredith, grows in gravitas, and has a little less fun, with each passing murder. (He's still a jollier soul than most modern tecs, to be sure.) Overall, these novels are a fun re-discovery for those who like their murder British, polite, and well-wrapped.
The Cheltenham Square Murder comes with one of those handy little street plans so beloved of mystery writers from the Golden Age. How necessary this simple little drawing is I’m wasn’t sure – but I admit I did find myself referring to it to several times.The novel opens in a small, tranquil regency square in Cheltenham Spa, ten houses in a u shape around a communal grassy area of shrubs and trees.
The inhabitants are generally middle aged – and quiet living.
Several residents have been locked in a dispute over the fate of an old elm tree, and bank manager Mr Fitzgerald appears to have the weight of the world on his shoulders.
I enjoy reading these classics, if nothing else I know the language is right! If you are an archer, you will be frustrated as all get-out by the simplistic explanations of arrow flight. The detectives dismiss one vital clue as unimportant and completely overlook another. If you read carefully, you'll know the culprit long before they do.
Thank you.This is one of those classic historical mysteries I would not have been aware of if it weren't for Poisoned Pen Press being willing to work with books being re-released by the British Library.
The opening of this novel can be a little confusing because a murder happens in a section of Cheltenham called Regent Square which has ten residences in a U shape positioned around a park-like area.
I enjoy that type of novel so this one had the potential to be a special reading experience for me.Superintendent Meredith of the Sussex County Constabulary, Lewes, Sussex is the major investigator in this story.
Those who belong to the Wellington Archery Club are keen, even fanatically keen archers, so immediately they are suspects.It is fortunate for the local police that Superintendent Meredith from the Sussex County Constabulary is staying in the Square and helps Inspector Long unravel the mystery, but not before another there is a second victim, again murdered with an arrow in the head.It’s a slow-paced mystery, both Meredith and Long spend much time working out how the murder was committed and Bude drops in several red herrings to confuse matters as first one then another of the residents comes under suspicion.
I enjoyed trying to work it out, but although I had an idea about the guilty person I couldn’t see how the murders had been achieved until the method was revealed.Martin Edward’s introduction gives a brief biography of John Bude, whose real name was Ernest Carpenter Elmore (1901 – 1957).
This was potentially interesting because of the cast of characters in a small community- a square of ten houses - but the possibilities were not well-explored. The methods were ingenious, but not original or unique.A common fault with the lesser lights of the Golden Age was found here- a drag in the plot followed by a rushed conclusion.Not one of Bude's best.(Is there a mistake in Chapter 1 which has four front doors when there are only three houses on that side of the square?)
Note: I accessed digital review copies of this book through NetGalley and Edelweiss; I received an ARC from the publisher at ALA Midwinter 2017.
However, it’s not the only reason I found this book hard to get through.Unlike the hilarious black comedy The Murder of My Aunt, this is a straightforward dramatic detective novel (and singularly lacking in any sense of humour).
The local constabulary fall over themselves to get this detective to help with the investigation.The massive snobbery that permeates this novel is really hard to swallow.
The local detective Inspector Long’s dialogue is written in the phonetic, revealing his rural or working class origins every time he speaks, but this is not only completely unnecessary, it’s also really difficult to read.
There are plenty of suspects because many of the residents of Regency Square are members of an archery club and are pretty darn good shots.
The Cheltenham Square Murder isn’t a page turner or a compelling read but it was workmanlike and a reasonably pleasant novel that did a good job of evoking the spirit of Cheltenham’s ‘leisure, culture and tranquility.’I’ve seen some comments that this isn’t the best of Bude’s work by far – The Cornish Coast Murder and Death on the Riviera are apparently superior in terms of both plot and characterisation.
Together, Meredith and Long set out to solve what appears to be an impossible crime.I really enjoyed The Cheltenham Square Murder, it was an entertaining, complex mystery, with all the charm of 1930s England, the time when this book was written.
With a quick pace and a baffling plot, this locked room mystery, set in a small square in England, has several obvious suspects with several good motives and iron-clad alibis.
Overall, The Cheltenham Square Murder is an excellent classic mystery that will entrance and ensnare any fan of mysteries, particularly fans of classic mysteries.Thank you to Poisoned Pen Press and Netgalley for an advance copy of this book in return for my honest review.
Murder mystery with period detail.Set in 1937 England, this is a whodunnit peppered with period detail and humour.
The introduction tells us that John Bude’s first three mysteries have been reprinted and enjoyed considerable success.
This fourth of his novels has been reprinted in 2016 following their success.The mores of the time, such as living in sin, the class system and hired help, though outdated, add to the charm of the novel.
It is as sexist at times as 1930's England, and the rest of the world, were.There is a breadcrumb trail of clues and plenty of red herrings until we find who done it.
Notwithstanding, this is an murder mystery worth investing time in.
John Bude, pseudonym of Ernest Belmore (1901-1957), was a well-known author of mysteries during the Golden Age. First published in 1937, this mystery is true to form.
The series investigator, Superintendent Meredith, happens to be visiting a writer friend who is house-sitting for his aunt.
Warmly accepted by the local authority, Inspector Long, Meredith and Long begin a frustrating but thorough investigation.
Nevertheless, this is a solid mystery with carefully investigated and thoroughly analyzed clues, lightly drawn but clearly distinguished characters, and a satisfying conclusion.Martin Edwards provides an introduction that grounds the mystery and introduces the author, John Bude, whose work deserves to be better known.
The problem for me was that there isn't any character the reader can identify with and see the mystery through the eyes of.
I think it's supposed to be Meredith, but there's absolutely nothing interesting about his character: all he does is think about the murder and try to solve it.
He's completely unenthusiastic about solving crimes, he is apparently incapable of interviewing women, he constantly puts his constable down (his constable being far more intelligent and interesting than him but sadly rarely appearing in the book).
I liked Miss Booth a lot; she seemed genuinely interesting but, again, rarely appeared.
Clever, clever, clever: Bude sets up two different murders in the same locked(ish) room, with another locked-room somewhere else attracting attention and a whole host of stock characters to fill in the pieces.
If I'm being pedantic small pieces of the puzzle and smaller characters jar slightly, suspects suddenly pop up from nowhere and there's a very fortunate incident which opens the case up (the latter two I believe break the rules of crime writing at the time).However the interplay between Meredith and the local police inspector and his assistant are worth the money alone.
