https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35519.The_Power_of_Myth
What he says on the subject of myth and our current culture is so true, and so insightful, that I think that everyone should pause to think about it.
The changes in our cultural upbringing are so profound and Joe Campbell really helps to explain how and why that happened and what that does to your psyche, and spirit.
We have our current generation of 30 somethings that still dress like teenagers, go to rock concerts, and still think that having 'commitment issues' is cool.
Really, I think everyone should read this at least once.
اما گذر زمان و سطح درك پايين طبقه فرو دست اجتماع باعث شده رفته رفته مردم به صورت تحت اللفظى به مفاد اساطير باور پيدا كنن، هر چند، همين برداشت تحت اللفظى از اسطوره هم كاركرد خودش رو داشته (كمك به سالك در استفاده از تجربيات انسانى پيشينيان، براى بالا رفتن در سلوكش).اما "بيان استعارى تجربيات انسانى" امروزه هم هست.
His wealth of knowledge on faith, philosophy and humanity was astounding.
Thanks to this interview, conducted by journalist Bill Moyers, we have an encapsulated version of his teachings from Campbell's own mouth.
Campbell's take on religion is refreshing.
When I first saw The Power of Myth on tv, I was only interested in the Star Wars material and the more fantastical elements of mythology, the bits about the gods and monsters.
Today, while listening to the discussion, I'm most interested in the aspects of the birth, life and death cycle and of faith.
I have bought this wonderful machine—a computer. Now I am rather an authority on gods, so I identified the machine—it seems to me to be an Old Testament god with a lot of rules and no mercy. Joseph Campbell’s Hero with a Thousand Faces is a book that, for better or worse, will forever change how you see the world. Once you read his analysis of the monomyth, the basic outline of mythological stories, you find it everywhere. It’s maddening sometimes. Now I can’t watch certain movies without analy
Reading Campbell helped me to clarify many of the things I have been thinking and wondering about lately, so I can’t help mixing up my own reflections with Campbell’s.
Indeed, there might be more of my opinions in this review than Campbell, but here it goes.One of the main lessons that art, philosophy, and religion teach us is that society imposes upon us superficial values.
Consequently, when scientists argue with religious people about their beliefs, I think they’re both missing the point.So far we have covered Campbell’s social, pedagogical, and cosmological functions of myths.
However, if I was given the option of choosing only 20 books to read in my lifetime, “The Power of Myth” by Joseph Campbell would certainly be on that list.This book is about popular myths from different cultures leading up to present day beliefs and practices.
There are insightful passages on how - many of the myths encourage you to look inward to find yourself, and follow your bliss.A book which is expansive, profound and inspiring, at the same time engrossing – strongly recommended as a must read!
Joseph Campbell is seriously incredible. Read this, listen to the PBS audio tapes, read anything he writes... he's just brilliant, erudite, illuminating, fascinating, lovable, enlightening... he reveals things articulately that you always sensed in the shadowy regions of your instinct, and having them so clearly identified has a revelatory and refreshing effect. It makes you pensive and hopeful. It makes you feel good about being human, part of this thing we do called life. I don't know, I think everyone should give him a try. If anything, he's at least incredibly interesting.
And he talks about 'following one's bliss' a lot.A few days ago, a distant relative of mine almost convinced me to study a certain subject of apparently great market value.
So, I was considering her words and harboring doubts about myself, about my decisions until I read this book.Who would I be if I don't 'follow my bliss'?
That makes our experience here very humbling.I didn't fully understand him though.
I should have read his earlier works first in order to understand his jargon.
Campbell's works resonate to this day.
Reading this book was truly an enlightening experience for me.
Where Campbell starts to lose me is when he insists that these shared experiences (birth, adolescence, death, the physical act of eating something that used to be alive, etc.) are indicative of some Mystery that underwrites the universe.
At one point, Campbell says something to the effect of "But you can't try to make life better.
Thanks to people who refused to learn to accept it, we've built democracies that are more-or-less egalitarian (and thousands of times better for the average citizen than the brutal civilizations that gave us some of these myths).
And none of this could ever happen if people took Campbell's advice of taking nature-as-it-is as the the only good way of the world.
We are unaware of it most of the time, but it tickles us all from time to time.Suddenly we realize we 'are', we actually exist.
One day we open our eyes, and there’s a world outside.These things trouble me.
Neuroscientists tell us there’s really nothing concrete within us that can be recognized as ‘I’, all things are in constant flux, nothing stays the same for long.
It actually exists.
How come a thing can 'exist' in itself?
From where does these weird feelings really come?
We know there’s more to the world than our eyes and our rational thoughts meet.
We can feel it.There’s where myths come.Myths are not science.
جوزف كمبل (01987-1904) از برجسته ترين مراجع جهاني در زمينه ي اسطوره شناسي، پژوهنده اي توانا، مشاهده 
I don't know how he does it, but every time I read/hear/stumble upon some vague quotation of Joseph Campbell's work, my day gets better.
The sensation I get when reading his work is of relief, that all the seemingly static and infallible truths of the world stem from very simple needs.
This book is a sort of revised and embellished version of the video interviews of Campbell conducted by Bill Moyers on Skywalker Ranch (home of George Lucas).
Joseph Campbell is so insighful--he sees the humanity of the study, as well as the science, spouting such sincere and life-changing directions as "follow your bliss." I mean, dang.
Re-read this one after several years, and it was even more powerful this time. I think the time and the age between helped in my understanding and comprehension. Very accessible text, and I am sure I will revisit this one again someday - maybe I can finally watch the PBS special too.
فوق العاده از خوندش  لذت بردم به نظرم بیشتر از اینکه آموزش اسطوره شناسی باشه درس خودشناسی و هستی شناسی میده."اسطورهها را بخوانید. آنها میآموزند که میتوانید به دورن بازگردید و شروع به دریافت پیام نمادها میکنید. اسطورههای ملت های دیگر را بخوانید، نه اسطوره های دین خود را؛ زیرا گرایشتان بر آن است که دین خود را از زاویه واقعیات امور تفسیر کنید، اما اگر اسطوره های دیگران را بخوانید شروع به دریافت پیام خواهید کرد. اسطوره کمک میکند که ذهن خود را در تماس با این تجربه زنده بودن قرار دهید."
فوق العاده از خوندش  لذت بردم به نظرم بیشتر از اینکه آموزش اسطوره شناسی باشه درس خودشناسی و هستی شناسی میده."اسطوره‌ها را بخوانید. آنها می‌آموزند که می‌توانید به دورن بازگردید و شروع به دریافت پیام ‌نمادها می‌کنید. اسطوره‌های ملت های دیگر را بخوانید، نه اسطوره های دین خود را؛ زیرا گرایشتان بر آن است که دین خود را از زاویه واقعیات امور تفسیر کنید، اما اگر اسطوره های دیگران را بخوانید شروع به دریافت پیام خواهید کرد. اسطوره کمک می‌کند که ذهن خود را در تماس با این تجربه زنده بودن قرار دهید."
I started reading the hardcover version of this and immediately realized it is a companion to a PBS series between Bill Moyers and Joseph Campbell.
While I have a great amount of respect for Moyers, I was slightly annoyed at times with his attempts to assert his equanimity to Campbell and so I appreciate this particular exchange because of Moyers’ immediate disagreement.
So beautiful.Bill Moyers: And yet we all have lived a life that had a purpose.
I mean when you really see what life is, it’s a lot of protoplasm with an urge to reproduce and continue in being.BM: Not true.
A series of interview with Campbell, accompanied by lots of images.My notes:
کتاب خیلی خوبی برای آشنایی با اسطوره است.
مصاحبه جوزف کمبل اسطوره شناس با مویرز است که پرسش و پاسخ جذابی و دلپسندی بود و وسوسه شدم خود مصاحبه رو نگاه کنم.
نتیجه ای که از این کار به دست می آید، تبدیل آنها به پیام هایی برای تجربه و زندگی درونی خود شماست.
این نظام ناگهان به یک تجربه شخصی تبدیل می شود.
از آقا Foad بابت معرفی کتاب تشکر می کنم که باعث آشنایی با این موضوع شدند و فکر کنم سفر خوب و لذت بخشی با اسطوره داشته باشم.
My 100th book for goodreads should be a memorable one.TRUE STORY: I was facing one of those milestone birthdays where you find yourself asking the big questions like, “What the heck am I doing?” “Am I on the right course?” "Who am I?"I wandered into a local bookstore thinking “Surely there’s a book in here with some answers for me.” I walked out with “The Power of Myth” by Joseph Campbell with Bill Moyers, the companion book for their PBS series of the same name.A few pages into their dialog, I realized my angst wasn’t anything new; I was on my own modest sort of “vision quest”…Campbell, ”going in quest of a boon, a vision, which has the same form in every mythology…You leave the world that you’re in and go into a depth or into a distance or up to a height.
And become a writer.That IS not an easy thing to do.Marvelous book filled with journeys, quests and timeless lessons from many of the world's cultures and myths.
دربارهی این کتاب خیلی چیزها میشه نوشت اما ممکنه هیچکدومش توصیف دقیق اون نباشه. بنابراین فقط میتونم بگم یه کتاب دربارهی راهنمای زیستن. کشف دوباره هستی. غرق شدن در کائنات.
درباره‌ی این کتاب خیلی چیزها می‌شه نوشت اما ممکنه هیچکدومش توصیف دقیق اون نباشه. بنابراین فقط می‌تونم بگم یه کتاب درباره‌ی راهنمای زیستن. کشف دوباره هستی. غرق شدن در کائنات.
Apparently everyone loves this book, which shocks me.
I found a lot of his references very interesting but I really despised a lot of the author's commentary on them (as well as the hundreds of times the author contradicts himself).
Yes, he did come up with some pretty deep conclusions, but at other times I found his ideas to be so infuriatingly ridiculous that I, in fact, threw the book at the car window at one point when I read a particularly infuriating nugget of absurdity (I believe it was something about how people really shouldn't be punished for crimes during times of war).
Overall I found it to be very preachy.
"One thing that comes out in myths is that at the bottom of the abyss comes the voice of salvation. The black moment is the moment when the real message of transformation is going to come. At the darkest moment comes the light."   The Power of Myth is a beautifully illustrated collection of interviews of Joseph Campbell by Bill Moyers.This is a very accessible and enjoyable book that presents a concise summary of the core ideas distilled from a lifetime of scholarly effort in the worldwide stu
"One thing that comes out in myths is that at the bottom of the abyss comes the voice of salvation.
The black moment is the moment when the real message of transformation is going to come.
At the darkest moment comes the light."
The Power of Myth is a beautifully illustrated collection of interviews of Joseph Campbell by Bill Moyers.This is a very accessible and enjoyable book that presents a concise summary of the core ideas distilled from a lifetime of scholarly effort in the worldwide study of myth by Joseph Campbell.Strongly recommend this book to anyone with a curious mind.
Myths are often stories that explain how the world and human kind came to be in their present form.
Consisting of nine chapters that explain the importance of myth in various aspects, it deals with the universality and evolution of myths in the history of the human race and the place of myths in modern society.
The following chapters talks about a hero's journey which contains some of the major aspects pointed out in Campbell's previous books, the change of society from a goddess centric female dominated society into a male dominated society and their reemergence in the 12th and 13th century, tales of love and marriage and masks of eternity that identifies with infinity and the power of circle as a symbol.
The confusion to me started increasing when I took the matter of my personal relgious belief out & started looking at world religions as a whole and as to what they symbolize.
Campbell explains in detail how across Civilizations, Continents,Time,Wars,Monarchies & Papacies, Famines,Floods & Devastation a few central themes shine through in the theatre of World Mythology.
Hinduism, Biblical Mythology & Buddhism are the key religions which at a first glance seem to have influenced this man the most, for time & again he returns to them and shows us little nuggets which speak more than any book ever could.
It would be impossible to write about every idea that Campbell discusses in this book but it suffices to say that his work touches upon many profound aspects of what it means to be alive.The book is actually the transcript of a famous PBS television special with journalist Bill Moyers and Joseph Campbell where they discuss what is mythology and what role does it have in modern life.
He discusses a wide range of ideas and symbolsOne of Campbell's deepest ideas is the concept that mythology makes up the ideas of being alive, the business of living.
This book is full of wisdom.
I read it slowly, kept it on my night table and read a page or two a night.
Of course, Joseph Campbell is brilliant.
I ended up underlining because so much is profound and so much goes deep into not only the world we live in but the personal soul.
He talks a lot about going inward and finding your own harmony.
The Great Silence!
The silence beyond sound.
Myth and storytellers, the hero's adventures, gift of the goddess, and the female principle all lead up to, not so much the destination but the experience of the journey.
Campbell says, "Eden is." Very exciting read!
Jesus Christ does old Professor Joe Campbell knead and massage his precious little thesis until it is a pile of steaming crap sitting in front of me. How many different ways can you boil a potato. Yes, OK, myth, storytelling, wow amazing. NEXT.
Campbell explains why the underlying stories are the same from all over the world and what they mean in both cultural, personal, and world contexts.He breaks down some of the major archetypes like the sacrificed god and resurrection, virgin births, goddesses, trees, snakes, and more.
If you immerse yourself in enough of the stories, you will pick up on the reoccurring patterns yourself.I believe that one of the many purposes of mythology, beyond its entertainment value, is to teach us about what we have in common with each other, and also, the hidden dimensions of ourselves.As the doorway to the Delphic Oracle said, “Know Thyself.” And, really, that is the greatest power there is.
It's not about stories, books, movies...
just the myths, how and why they appeared, how and why they shaped and still shape lives and society, how they adapt (or we adapt them) and so on.He also tackles on issues that even almost 30 years after the book's publishing are still rampant, or even more rampant than before, like violence, issues in love, maturing too late, fanaticism and so on and I think he does a pretty good job in explaining a big part of those issues.Since myths are a way of telling stories and adding meanings to them, no wonder this became a "bible of stories".
Just as 'Public Communicators' like Cousteau, Sagan and deGrasse Tyson have translated sprawling, complex phenomena of the natural sciences into digestible, imperative docutainment, so did Joseph Campbell—with socratic cheerleading from interviewer Bill Moyers—distill leading mythological scholarship of the humanities and social sciences, including his own substantial work, into a kind of cultural and ecological advocacy intended for a late 1980s american television audience.CAMPBELL: I think of mythology as the homeland of the muses, the inspirers of art, the inspirers of poetry.
If you want to find out what it means to have a society without any rituals, read the New York Times.MOYERS: And you'd find?CAMPBELL: The news of the day, including destructive and violent acts by young people who don't know how to behave in a civilized society.[...]This is why we have graffiti all over the city.
The Power of Myth বইটি বসতুত বিল ময়ারস নামক একজন জনপরিয় সাংবাদিকের কাছে জোসেফ কযামপবেলেরসাকষাৎকারের লিখিত রূপ বলা চলে। বিল ময়ারস আমাদের দেশের সমকালীন সাংবাদিকদের মত নন তা আমি বইটি পড়ে বুঝতে পেরেছি। যথেষট জঞানী একজন মানুষ। অপরপকষে জোসেফ কযামপবেল অযাকাডেমিশিয়ান। জুটিটা ভালো ছিল।কযামপবেল কাহনবইটা পড়তে শুরুতে কিছু খটকা লাগছিল আমার। বযকতিগত জীবনে ঈশবর আমার কাছে অসতিতবহীন, ধরম অবানতর। বইটা পড়ে কযামপবেলকে আমার কেমন মনে হয়েছে সেটা পরাসঙগিক বলে মনে করি। কেন করি তা করমশ পরকাশয।কযামপবেল যুকতিবাদী। তবে ঈশবর
The Power of Myth বইটি বস্তুত বিল ময়ার্স নামক একজন জনপ্রিয় সাংবাদিকের কাছে জোসেফ ক্যাম্পবেলেরসাক্ষাৎ
I actually never thought I'd be writing a review and typing out the sentence, "this book changed my life." But I can't really get around it.
It feels dramatic and sweeping and ridiculous, but this book really changed my life.
It was also a matter of good timing, and I was also given some thoughts from watching "The Wind Rises" at the same time as I was reading.
I was thinking about "The Wind Rises," concepts that Joseph Campbell had talked about, and then applying these things to my life.
And then I too realized that there were things I knew to be the inarguable truth.I don't wanna get dramatic in a Goodreads review.
