https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80245.Bernice_Bobs_Her_Hair
My second favorite novel of all time is "The Great Gatsby".
I'm original like that and besides, it changed reading for me.
I've read most of his other novels.
Possibly all of them.
But some years of my life are blurrier than others.
In spite of my admiration for him and my slight obsession with his wife (I'm that girl) I have never read any of his short stories.
Not even Bernice.
Not even Benjamin.
This was my first time at this dance and all it did was reinforce what I already knew.
That guy could write the eff out of anything.
"My hair---bob it!"
the part where marjorie calls bernice out for being the sort of girl who is a "beautiful bundle of clothes" that a husband "builds ideals" around was ironic because it seemed more a description of marjorie to me.
harry in "the ice palace" reminded me heavily of buddy in The Bell Jar. i am glad the story ended (view spoiler)[with her going back to the south because it would have been ridiculous if she'd stayed in the north where she clearly didn't belong or really want to belong.
While never having really read much Fitzgerald ( The Great Gatsby , "Bernice Bobs Her Hair", and "Babylon Revisited" for classes), I have always felt that I didn't quite understand what the fuss was all about. Now, a sensible person would note that I had not read enough to make any kind of judgment.So an adult reevaluation begins with this book. I'm not convinced that Fitzgerad's interpretation of the North-South divide is an accurate one, but rather one more likely playing to the sentimentaliti
, "Bernice Bobs Her Hair", and "Babylon Revisited" for classes), I have always felt that I didn't quite understand what the fuss was all about.
Likewise, his soft-peddled racism (an odd and recurring theme in these stories) is presented without an kind of awareness.
"Bernice Bobs Her Hair" is a fine bit of fantasy revenge.
"The Off-Shore Pirate" feels the freshest of the pieces, spoiled only by the ending.
"The Diamond as Big as the Ritz" feels like an attempt at adventure fiction, but comes across as idolizing and championing the worst of America.
"The Jelly-Bean" has some fine moments, but Fitzgerald does not convey shyness or social discomfort well.
Lots of good writing but a very slight story.2 Winter Dreams – one of his rags to riches stories, very autobiographical and like many of his stories dealing with the loss of being able to feel as strongly as during youth.
3 The Sensible Thing – another story about loss of heightened feeling and the poor return of emotional investment.
In this story the central character has two personas just as Fitzgerald was to split himself in two for Gatsby and Nick.
7 Magnetism – Another very autobiographical story dealing with the pressures success puts on a marriage.
Of the six stories, the Offshore Pirate was my favorite. As always, I like Fitzgerald's writing and the way he uses words. None of these stories compares to the Great Gatsby, but they were still very enjoyable and easy to read.
First two stories floored me.
Seriously--best short story.
these stories taught me much of the little i know about human behavior - especially catty human behavior.
