https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68528.The_Pale_Horseman
The pompous, self-important, Odda the Younger took the credit for the slaying, and no one, not even King Alfred would ever challenge Odda since Alfred was in dire need of the troops and wealth belonging to Odda’s elderly father.
Although deemed to be a Saxon, Uhtred’s very essence still belonged to the Danes having lived with them as a young boy.
However, Uhtred realizes the day will come when he must make a choice to carry on fighting the Danes, or join them.
Author Bernard Cornwell has written an epic tale of life in England in the year 877 and the great battle with the strong-willed Danes determined to take over their country.
"There comes a moment in life when we see ourselves as others see us. I suppose that is part of growing up, and it is not always comfortable."  I read The Last Kingdom in 2015, while a book it didn't like enough to continue the series. Fast forward 2017, I started watching Vikings and I liked it very much, that in turn made me come back to this series. While the History's Viking has a different plot than this but the theme of Danes' invasion of England is where both match. I am very happy that
I read The Last Kingdom in 2015, while a book it didn't like enough to continue the series.
Fast forward 2017, I started watching Vikings and I liked it very much, that in turn made me come back to this series.
This book started with Uhtred's return to England.
Uhtred was furious and angry, and thus he decided to wait for the day when Danes would defeat England and he would gladly join them and take revenge for the insult that he got from Saxons.
When Uhtred returns to his king, he is met with distain and mistrust.
So why not blow of some steam with a little Viking raiding?“There is so much joy in a good ship, and a greater joy to have the ship’s belly fat with other men’s silver.
He gets to indulge in his Danish side without changing his loyalties and threatening Alfred’s promises of peace to the Danes.
Uhtred is as much Danish as he is Saxon.
So when his former, yet brief, friend arrives with a small fleet of ships to hunt down Alfred, Uhtred’s loyalties are tested yet again.
King Alfred thinks himself safe, but in truth the last kingdom of the Saxons is in grave peril...Writing a sequel to an amazing novel can sometimes be amazingly hard.
The Last Kingdom was an amazing book, but this is where this became one of my favourite series and Cornwell one of my favourite authors.Uhtred must fight the hardest duel of his life against a truly formidable opponent, a strong Danish invasion catches the people of Wessex completely by surprise, and Alfred must hide in a swamp to avoid falling with his kingdom.
This one took a lot longer to get going than book one but the second half and the ending were very good. The religious overtones to everything Alfred does makes me want to root for the Danes as does the corruption of many of the priests.
And I do not want to write like this to make money, or make fans, or make myself famous, I just want to have this skill for myself, to know that I can do it, to know that I can create magic on paper, although, Bernard Cornwell, in this series at least, is more than merely skilled, he is an absolute master.
And as I said, I just totally get it.Cornwell is a little heavy on the anti-Christian vibe and this may turn people off a bit, but I get that too, because they were heavy on God back then.
HISTORY: at this time England was something of a bunch of Saxon Kingdoms.
The first book opens with only one Saxon Kingdom remaining and the others having already fallen.
Tale focuses on a young man, who was raised by Danes and appreciates many of their values, but, for various reasons from the first book, he has chosen to side with the remaining Saxon Kingdom, Wessex.
Also, the take on the future Alfred the Great is interesting b/c the main character has no love for him.
And, that's funny because Alfred is the only male monarch of England to be termed the great .
I can't even......----------------------------------------------------------------------- "And I looked," Pyrlig said to me, "and I saw a pale horse, and the rider's name was death," You like Viking? You like badasses like my boyfriends, Uhtred??You want a GOOD STORY????? THEN READ THIS BOOK!!!!!!Also, I think its safe to say that buying all the books in the series before finishing the first one was a wise choice...
"REINVIGORATE, MAN!" I shouted, then calmly began my review. Cornwell always does a decent job of adding in just enough historical detail, both physical and immediate, to the story as well as historic and atmospheric for the background. Then he layers on his stock, misunderstood hero regardless of time or place and serves up another entertaining action/adventure story. Hard to argue with a winning recipe, other than the argument that the palette desires something new sooner or later, and that the chef needs to stretch himself occasionally to reinvigorate his passion.
Executive Summary: Another enjoyable Historical Fiction book that I probably would have liked a bit better if I hadn't already known what was coming from watching the TV show. I'm really looking forward to book three now. Full Review In retrospect I wish I had read this book before watching The Last Kingdom. I had no idea that a 10 episode season would cover two books. That's partly because they glossed over half of the first book, and partly because they cut a lot of detail out.I had been hopin
Executive Summary: Another enjoyable Historical Fiction book that I probably would have liked a bit better if I hadn't already known what was coming from watching the TV show.
I'm really looking forward to book three now.
In retrospect I wish I had read this book before watching The Last Kingdom.
Much of the first season seemed to heavily focus on the major events of this book rather than the one it's named for.The writing is excellent.
Overall, I enjoyed it, but mostly I'm looking forward to getting past the show and reading about what comes next.
Set between 876 - 878 AD, the Second Saxon Stories novel follows Uhtred’s life in he’s early twenties.I really liked how the book covered a much shorter timespan than the previous volume, I felt that I got to know Uhtred more as a character. This series is getting better and better!
Lá eles precisam reorganizar-se, pois os invasores estão formando um exército de grandes proporções, ainda liderados pelo já conhecido Guthrum, o Sem-Sorte, e agora com a ajuda do famoso Svein do Cavalo Branco, para conquistar de vez o último reino que ainda resta na futura Inglaterra, Wessex.Nessa sequência, Uhtred está praticamente no ápice de sua arrogância como guerreiro, ainda mais após o seu desempenho na batalha de Cynuit.
A Igreja, como não poderia deixar de ser, continua incomodando Uhtred, e isso será uma constante em praticamente todos os livros das Crônicas Saxônicas."Mas eu odiava Alfredo.
Bernard Cornwell, apart from having a talent for writing epic duels and battles, is also proving to be a great story teller.
Mainly because he's becoming a great warrior and we get to see him build his reputation.
He is starting to accumulate skills, knowledge and experience that he may need to fulfill what he believes to be his destiny: to retake Bebbanburg, his home.
We get to see Uhtred's character grow, experience victory, loss, grief and sometimes even sympathy.
The dynamic between him and Alfred was great.
I'm excited to see what fate has in store for Uhtred, son of Uhred.
Destiny is all.
His main character, Uhtred, is a young rebellious youth, much like the main protagonist, Derfel, in BC’s Arthur trilogy.
I wanted some more originality, like we see with the excellent priest, Father Pyrlig, who shows up in the last part of this book.
Here is Pyrlig’s advice to the overly pious King Alfred on the eve of the big battle with the Danes.
Probably accurate too.BC is at his best talking about the fighting men and how they may have viewed their world:  There is such joy in a good ship, and a greater joy to have the ship’s belly fat with other men’s silver.
The young English nobleman Uhtred, captured and raised by the Danes, is called upon by King Alfred to save his kingdom from the Danes.
King Alfred is just learning about human nature, and does not recognize when his enemies are being deceptive.
And, there is no supernatural in this series.
However, the fascinating thing is that everybody believes in the supernatural.
It does not matter whether or not there are supernatural happenings--everybody believes in the supernatural, anyway.I did not read this book.
It is especially surprising when he reads about the characters' attitude toward violence, in an understated, mild tone of voice that it is almost shocking to our modern sensibilities.
Re-reading.
**RTC  This isn't just a war over land, it's a war about God. And Alfred...is Christ's servant...   The shield wall is a terrible place. It is where a warrior makes his reputation, and reputation is dear to us.
Uhtred the warrior lord must decide whether to help the Saxon King Alfred to defend the kingdom of Wessex against the invading Danes.
The main problem for me is that Uhtred is a bit of a cartoon character.
I am assured by those that love the series that he develops through the later books, both in his own qualities and in his relationship with others.
Alfred is a more complex and well-developed character at this stage, and I did enjoy the shifts in his relationship with Uhtred.
Worth reading for the battles and the history, great for plot, but disappointing (for me) main character.
I have read all the books so far in Cornwell’s Saxon series, and this is my favorite book so far.
Of course, since I loved “The Last Kingdom” so much, I almost couldn’t wait to get my hands on it, and then read it in two days.
I do believe one of Cornwell's flaws is he doesn’t write the best female characters, but I find his male characters so interesting and fun, it doesn’t bother me much.I think the history behind this book is fascinating.
Cornwell describes it so vividly too.
So yes, I thoroughly enjoyed this book!
This was a brutal read. I love historical fiction when it gets real like this. The characters were vivid and realistic. The author understands the era and how to bring us into it.All of the basic themes are present, betrayal, revenge, cruelty, heroism etc. The story never really slows down- it's pace is consistent with a building sensation towards the end. This was a good, brutal read. So far this series is a go-to consistently good read that I will return to from time to time.
I just wanted to take the time to mention just how much I'm enjoying this series to date and to thank all the readers who have recommended this series to me over the years.....Loving this stirring series of a bygone era. Well crafted with a wonderful hero in Uhtred, and a superb cast of supporting characters. Time and money well spent.
What a fun series this is turning out to be.
I read the first book in this series and then proceeded to binge watch every single episode of the TV version on Netflix in less than one day.
From having already seen the episodes this book covers, I knew what was going to happen.
It was a pleasant surprise that this wasn't exactly the TV version.
So there were new elements.I loved the MC.
What's not to love?
I have the next one in the series, but won't be getting to it until next month.
Wow! That last 50 pages or so were awesome...That's just an estimate, since I listened to the audio and didn't have the page count right in front of me. After several disappointing endings in books lately, this was refreshing. The finish actually brought my rating up, instead of the opposite as some have done recently. I've long heard that Bernard Cornwell is the best at describing battles. If I wasn't convinced already, I am now.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
"One more defeat and there would probably never have been a political entity called England. We might have had a Daneland instead, and this novel would probably have been written in Danish."  That was actually a quote from the authors "historical note" listed at the books end. I'm always nervous to read a second book in a series as I'm usually always disappointed. But, I loved book one so much and wanted to continue with Uthreds story. I happy to report that book 2 was all and more then I ever
That was actually a quote from the authors "historical note" listed at the books end.
But, I loved book one so much and wanted to continue with Uthreds story.
The books are historical fiction, and although I'm far from a history junky, I find myself completely enthralled with this era and its fiction and non-fiction characters alike.
In fact, I found my self searching the web after reading this book and the author notes, trying to look up facts.
LolOverall, I loved this book.
It was packed full of brutal fights, betrayal, love and loss, political and religious battles and some truly amazing characters.Uthred of Bebbanburg
Priča se nastavlja dalje. Istorija i život rade svoje bez da uzimaju obzir kolko patnje naparave sa time. Kvalitet pisanja je ostao isti kao i to da nema ni jedne dosadne strane ili nepotrebnog opisa. U svakom slučaju pravo uživanje.
Uhtred & his companions have become so dear to me, it's like I have no choice but to continue their story, so I know I'm going to keep reading this series.
I think what does it for me is Cornwell's writing.
One thing that struck me about this book was how well Cornwell keeps his readers up-to-date between books without being too redundant.
You can read these books one after another without feeling like you're spending too much of your time retracing the previous book.
I'm still having a blast reading the series with my hubby!
3.5 estrellas: Buena continuación para esta maravillosa saga de vikingos y sajones; a pesar de que carece de la cantidad de batallas espectaculares del primer tomo, The Pale Horsemen es un libro que te mantiene enganchado por cómo plantea el tema de la lealtad de Uhtred.
A lo largo de todo el libro Uhtred pone en duda su lealtad tanto para con los sajones como respecto a los vikingos, sin dejar de lado sus propias cuentas pendientes con quienes le arrebataron todo.
También es un libro que se centra más bien en el aspecto político y la delicada situación en la que quedó el reino de Wessex a pesar de haber hecho frente a las invasiones vikingas.
His enemies in battle, no matter what their reputation, hardly seem to bother him at all.Uhtred is a great character, made even better by his flaws.
There are many amusing scenes in the book , the best of which, by far, is Cornwell's, Uhtred's, take on the famous King Alfred's burnt cakes episode.
If he hadn't been so wrapped up in telling Uhtred about his strategy to regain Wessex from the Danes, King Alfred the Great would never have suffered the indignity!
I’ve had several books from the Saxon Chronicles on my TBR for quite a while but only started reading them after watching the TV series, Last Kingdom on BBC.
The first book, The Last Kingdom, begins the story of Uhtred, a Saxon boy taken by the Danes while attacking Northumbria in the late 800’s.In The Pale Horseman, Uhtred is now in his early 20’s -- a man with a wife, a child and a sworn oath to his king, Albert.
The story and the action is both just as good as the first book and I look forward to the third book in the series.Rating: 3.75 Stars
