https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22613.Simulacra_and_Simulation
You know, quite literally, a copy of something that never really existed.Baudrillard’s point is that this girl isn’t an exception in our modern world, but rather she is symptomatic of much of what our modern world actually means.
I think his point is that our desire for the world to mean things we want it to mean forces a kind of idealised vision of what the world is like over what we experience – but the problem is that this idealised vision is almost impossible (in Baudrillard’s view, actually impossible) to separate from what we take to be reality.
Some authors have a gift of being able to explain complex matters in simple terms.
Baudrillard, on the other hand, seems to have the complete opposite - explaining essentially simple (although nontheless interesting) concepts in overly complex terms.
While the core message of his essays is thought provoking and engaging, the text itself is so full of jargon, unnecessarily convoluted language, and a fair amount of repetition.
If you are anything like myself you will spend an hour reading, rereading, and digesting a couple of pages before reaching a point where you can explain what Baudrillard was essentially saying in a few simple sentences.
Basically the idea is just that people increasingly base their lives around collective ideas of things -- and those ideas can readily shift around and become something detached from reality -- rather than the things themselves. And that creates a free floating idea of society and the universe that supercedes concrete reality in its consequences.
**(This review has been dedicated to the charitable literary contribution of Alfonso’s (a.k.a The Crimson Fucker) penis , an essential piece of conceptual art of penile architecture.) The simulacrum is never thatwhich conceals the truth-it isthe truth which conceals thatthere is none.The simulacrum is true. -Ecclesiastes It has been a week and Sammy hasn't stopped humping the cilantro or sucking the lonely grape. The dung beetle has left its profession for some weed. Since Martha’s (the pig) dea
**(This review has been dedicated to the charitable literary contribution of Alfonso’s (a.k.a The Crimson Fucker) penis , an essential piece of conceptual art of penile architecture.)
In all this simulacrum panic where does Fonso’s penile obsession stands or rather erects?Baudrillard states, 
“Simulation is no longer really the real, because no imaginary envelops it anymore.
Are then Alfonso’s monstrous penile claims a mere trap to attract the unknown female species or a real scandalous sexual entrée?
Is Alfonso’s penis an Enchanted Land with magic rides?
How cool to be born when such a rad thinker like Baudrillard was doing his best stuff!) anyway - sort of think that postmodernism was/is hip and relevant...sort of also think it fizzled out in the '80s amidst various theory circles in academia - however, it IS in my opinion THE dominant epistemology among the unwashed masses and misinformed proles (sort of always crops up into most of my philosophy classes unconsciously amonst my students..)...
Your influence has infected the unwashed masses even in a providential back water redneck area like rural Binghamton NY (where this student made his abode)Wish I could write a book that could change the world, or tap into the zeitgeist...
To dissimulate is to pretend not to have what one has. To simulate is to feign to have what one doesn't have. But it is more complicated than that because simulating is not pretending: "Whoever fakes an illness can simply stay in bed and make everyone believe he is ill. Whoever simulates an illness produces in himself some of the symptoms"  - LittréBaudrillard sometimes fascinates me. Examining popular culture and its signs as taking over reality and replacing it, leaving only an unreliable ref
Sometimes, he comes across as paranoid in his zeal to impress upon us how unreal the real world is – I agree with him on his ideas, but not to the extent he takes his ideas.While he acknowledges in the very beginning that the line between the real and the simulated is no longer clear as before, and what is real and what is not is now nearly inseparable – things can be both, and simultaneously.
I think it is real and simulated, all at the same time.Another issue I have with him are on his ideas of Fascism; 
Also would add that, perhaps mildly contradicting my agreement with the complaint about Baudrillard's language, Baudrillard and other (relatively speaking) great continentalists would probably have been better off as literary authors, communicating these worthy ideas through art instead of jargon-laden and obtuse 'philosophy.' In support, I submit some stunningly gorgeous and worthy sentences from this book, all from the same page (on which there also exists unbearable obtuseness and obscuritythat Baudrillard worsens through repitition, as he constantly fucking thinks it's a good idea to):"Los Angeles is surrounded by these imaginary stations that feed reality, the energy of the real to a city whose mystery is precisely that of no longer being anything but a network of incessant, unreal circulation--a city of incredible proportions but without space, without dimension.
And has introduced a measure of disgust which I now feel towards both these subjects.There are things you come across when you read a lot, things which sound profound and deep and wide-ranging before you realise that they are neither profound nor possess the all-encompassing grandeur which they make you think they do.
It is a denial of reality, and not just a denial but an outright perversion of the concept of things happening.
I will not lie, the book is very well-written and is very beautiful despite being a very difficult read.
This is the kind of book that you find yourself bringing up in conversations all the time. It is applicable on so many levels; once you grasp the concept, it really grasps you back. It is relevant to me as an anthropologist, archaeologist and psychologist, but I would classify it more as a philosophy book. Bottom line: This book will do you good.
This book is only so highly rated because it is utterly incomprehensible. Baudrillard revelled in using hundreds of words to write what were really quite simple and flimsy arguments. Responsible for inspiring a lot of impenetrable 'art-speak' which is unfortunately common at a lot of art school degree shows nowadays.
This is not an easy book to read, in part because Baudrillard starts off with his ideas in full development and then talks around them, to explain them.
In hyperreality, the map meant to represent reality becomes a simulacra of reality itself so that we don't get real, we get the map qua real qua map.The fact that he is able to note the lack of a lack, as Zizek would say: the anti-philosophy at the heart of philosophy, so to speak, places Baudrillard with all the other philosophical greats of our time.
This book cannot be read like a Haruki Murakami novel, one to enthrall you during relaxation.
This book is more like study material, each sentence of Baudrillard's can be heavily read into and some sentences require extended knowledge on the subject (to my dismay it forced me to endure a Jorge Luis Borges short-story).
What piqued my interest to this book initially was from another book I read "Taking the Red Pill: Science, Philosophy and Religion in The Matrix" by David Gerrold (I should however note that this book on The Matrix is made up from a collection of essays from novelists, academics and just important people in their fields) who is actually a member of Goodreads, there was a lot of Baudrillard work mentioned in that book and so I decided to expand my knowledge and source out "Simulacra And Simulation".
In spite of the difficulties I had with this challanging work, I believe I get it.We are living in end times and we're screwed by our notions of and distance from reality.From the premises "Reproduction is always diabolicalin its very essence....simulation...is still and always the place of a giagantic enterprise of manipulation, of control and of death..."p153we get the conclusion:"there remains only a demand linked to the empty form of the institution- perverse demand,and for that reason all the more obstinate" p155sounds like a truth.

I finished this a couple of days ago and I still think of things that I've read in the book. It is, the least to say, an original book. I appreciate how Baudrillard conceives a whole new level of reality. Hypereality is that which is more real than the real. It is getting rid of representations mirrors and keeping the empty simulations to rule and guide us. However, to what extent is this real? have we really given up on our traditional reality in favor of simulations, and are ads, junk TV, and media that influential?
Images on television and in the movies and in other media are "floating signifiers," having no real connection to concrete referents.
The key concept associated with Baudrillard is simulations and the simulacrum.
We face a procession of images and simulations, and lose sight of the simple fact that they are "floating signifiers." The simulacra become real for us.
Put in post-structural (or postmodern) terms, the models created are floating signifiers (simulations in Baudrillard's terms) which structure people's discourse with one another and shape their behavior.
A couple of excerpts from his book:If we were able to view the Borges fable in which the cartographers of the Empire draw up a map so detailed that it ends up covering the territory exactly (the decline of the Empire witnesses the fraying of this map, little by little, and its fall into ruins, though some shreds are still discernible in the deserts—the metaphysical beauty of this ruined abstraction testifying to a pride equal to the Empire and rotting like a carcass, returning to the substance of the soil, a bit as the double ends by beings confused with the real through aging)—as the most beautiful allegory of simulation, this fable has now come full circle for us, and possesses nothing but the discrete charm of second-order simulacra.
Going through it again I find myself having the same reservations, Baudrillard's style is overly dependent on these really repetitive, almost cheekily nihilistic assertions.
And while his in-your-face style is provocative, ultimately, it just amounts to an aweful lot of empty rhetoric about how totally empty everything is.
A lot of it just seems like stuff he read and regurgitated from Deleuze and Foucault and then mixed up with his own sense of cheap posturing.
If your going to read it, take it with an especially big grain of salt.
As much as electrical and atomic power stations, as much as cinema studios, this city, which is no longer anything but an immense scenario and a perpetual pan shot, needs this old imaginary like a sympathetic nervous system made up of childhood signals and faked phantasms" (Baudrillard, pg.
This anticipation, this precession, this short circuit, this confusion of the fact with its model (no more divergence of meaning, no more dialectical polarity, no more negative electricity, implosions of antagonistic poles), is what allows each time for all possible interpretations, even the most contradictory—all true, in the sense that their truth is to be exchanged, in the image of the models from which they derive, in a generalized cycle" (Baudrillard, pgs.
In it, Baudrillard sets up Hegelian dichotomies or “dialectics” like the observer and the observed, the real and the simulation, McCluhan’s media and message, and so on.
I choose the brighter world I see in the scattered tribes of the world coming together and in the transforming technologies I see revolutionizing our experience and our potential.Our scientific understanding and our technologies are giving us a world to inherit instead of just a village, and it is all of our legacy to use as authentically as we can.
Daha iyi çevrilmeliydi.
But I think there's a kind of beauty to his writing that makes it more than just jargon.
G. Ballard, who Baudrillard explicitly cites as a prophetic author.As far as the actual theory goes, it isn't much more than a rearticulation of Guy DeBord's ideas, but Baudrillard goes a bit further in describing the implications of the simulacrum in our contemporary society.
Each essay refracts the core idea of simulation in a different context, ranging from the military-industrial complex to sci-fi novels.Now's the point where I feel like I should disclaim that this book will probably be too difficult for those not used to the jargon of the humanities, but I'm not sure that's true.
Baudrillard's core theories can be summed up in a paragraph.
I find this work as an engaging read, vacillating from deductive and inductive methods of exposing his concepts.
Engaging as it may be, some concepts are, for now, too abstract and difficult for my mind to wrap around.
After reading this the first time, I found myself recognizing the things he meant in "real life" and found myself nodding in schizophrenic agreement, as little by little my own views are pushed to the "sphere of psychosis."I will have to get my hands on Mcluhan's books to be able to grasp the full context of McLuhan's formula, as well as Walter Benjamin and Jacques Monod's works mentioned in the second essay of this book.
Kažkodėl man išnyra akmens įvaizdis: akmuo, su viduje slypinčiais intarpais, gyslelėmis.
Jie buvo visą laiką, tačiau akiai atsiveria tiktai tiktai padarius akmens pjūvį.
Tai, ką autorius aprašo savo knygoje, visą laiką slypėjo būtyje, tiesiog autoriaus dėmesio skalpelis būtent taip per ją praslydo.
Tokie žodžiai kaip "fraktaliniai objektai" (109 p.), "holograma" (123-128 p.) nerodo į kažką, ko nebuvo iki šiol, o tiesiog tai nebuvo pastebėta ir aprašyta.
Kitas dalykas, kaip keičiasi visuomenė, mūsų būvimas pasaulyje atsiradus naujam žinojimui, naujam būties pjūviui?
Matyt, keičiantis kartoms visada atsiras žmonių, teigiančių kultūros žūtį, nors ta kultūra niekur nedingsta, tiesiog keičiasi ir prisitaiko prie naujo laikmečio.
يلجا الكاتب لعرض مشاهد- - مقاطع تبدو وكانها مشاهد متلفزة عشواءية (تجديد مومياء رعمسيس ، فضيحة وترجريت ، مشاهد المفاعلات النووية ،حرب الكويت.... يستهل عرض فكرته بنكران وقوع الحادثة -هذا الفوق واقع  كيف اصبح هذا الفوق واقع واقعا ً؟ لماذا لا تكون الحروب حلماً ؛حلماً من الدمار والنبالم و حرق الاشجار حيَّة ؟! ثم تمر من خلال السلوك والترانزستورات وانبوب الكاثود لتكون "حرباً " هل هذا يعني ان حرب فايتنام او حرب الكويت لم تقع ؟لماذا يمثل المُفاعل النووي ما يمثله -كارثة الانفجار ، خطر حرب نووية مقبلة ؟


About two-thirds of the way through, I started to wonder if the whole book wasn't intended to be some sort of sick academic joke. While there were a few interesting points in it, I can't imagine a worse presentation of them.
Такое впечатление, что по этой книге снимали не только "Матрицу" (что заявлено официально), но и "Черное Зеркало". Книга Бодрийяра - очень концентрированный юппи (если вы достаточно стары, чтобы помнить, что это такое), который можно разводить водой до бесконечности.
When searching for companion texts to Lyotard I found a number of recommendations to Baudrillard who expands in Simulacra and Simulation on how the truth cannot be discerned anymore as the map of reality becomes more complex.
along with consumerist, environmental and artistic situations- each providing an example of the mixture of simulacra with societal concepts.Nevertheless, Baudrillard's message is intriguing especially for those of us who have been thinking more about what consumerism means in modern society.
Consumerism is the reality or the map of our society and especially capitalism - what's behind it may be nothing-- because without the map we live in, what else do we have or can we even conceive of what it might be?
