https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20821614-you
In other words: an insane, obsessive and manipulative romance from the perspective of a charming psychopath.It's a fucked up tale told from the POV of a stalker who obsesses over and spies on a young woman.
His narration is completely insane, horrifying and - at times - beautiful.He is a fantastically unreliable narrator, made more so by the charm and humour he uses to engage the reader.
Joe is able to commit his crimes through the use of email, Facebook and Twitter; finding out huge amounts of information about Beck without even leaving his house.
I don't normally review books when I've personally slept with the author, and this time is no different. I have never slept with Caroline Kepnes. You should read YOU. See what I did there? No? That's because you can't read, then!
Considering how weird this book is, it is kind of perfect!Not for the faint of heart!
This book is demented and twisted.
You will feel uncomfortable that the words on these pages came from someone and were actually published.
You will feel guilty for being enthralled by the madness and behavior of the narrator.
You will start to question your own sanity as you realize you are not quite sure who you are cheering for.For lovers of twisted horror that touches on the potential insanity of the human psyche, this book is for you!
If you read my review, and then you read the book and you are grossed out, disturbed, or upset by the content, don't blame me!
There aren't a lot of Guinevere Becks in the world-just the one. The first thing I had to find was your home and the Internet was designed with love in mind. It gave me so much of you, Beck. So starts Joe's little love fest with Beck. After she comes into the bookstore that he works at he feels their connection so strongly that he knows she feels the same. Even if she hasn't realized that fact yet.Joe might be a tad psycho. That's okay though, he is the best stalker psycho I've ever had the pri
(Like you guys ever thought I stopped to hide my crazy)Joe must get this love story rolling so he makes sure to get hold of Beck's phone.
She was pretending Joe. I know it.Now who else but someone that truly loves Beck is going to make sure her best girl friend that wants to put the moves on her is watched?
Then when Beck finds that used tampon that Joe saved because he loves her so..well that's just crazy that she thought he was nutso.
I almost hate to admit how much I loved this crazy ass book, but I'm doing it.
It’s been a hot minute since I’ve read something so psychologically twisted but I am ever so pleased.CW: violence, murder, stalking, drug abuseI’ve known You was a polarizing novel since it first reached my radar, and I can definitely confirm this is not a book for everyone.
(The narrator’s cadence was flawless and I would 1000% recommend the audio version.) Kepnes truly captured the mind of a stalker, while also allowing him to remain human, which was an immensely creepy and twisted experience to unpack.My only gripe with this story is I found it predictable all-throughout.
This book was unlike anything I've ever read before.
He's a stalker, a murderer and the most candidly honest character that I've ever crossed.The thing about Joe is that his craziness sucks you in.
I loved Joe and all of his totally inappropriate behaviors.
I never thought I'd be able to connect with a character like Joe, but I couldn't get enough of him.
I'm not sure I would've loved it as much if I had read the kindle version.
Joe was unlike any character I'd ever encountered and his inner rants took some getting used to.
I don't even want to know what kind of research needed to be done to write this novel. The ending left a pretty big plot berg, but YOU was strangely addictive. What's even more strange was how Kepnes somehow got me to both root for Joe and be disgusted with him and myself simultaneously. Excuse me, I need to shower.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Before I even get started, let me say this is not a book for everyone. Hell, it might not be a book for anyone except for Snotchocheez and myself. There is no middle-ground to be had here. This book is offensive and the characters are all vile and I expect opinions to be extremely polarized. And I totally respect that . . . but please have the decency to not troll my review and tell me how wrong I am or that I’m a pscyho. I’m already
Caroline Kepnes managed not only to write the most revolting character I’ve ever loved (move over, Herman Koch, you ain’t got nothin’ on this gal), but on top of it all she wrote the book from Joe's perspective.
And that I’m probably going to be considered certifiable for even admitting I enjoyed this book – let alone wishing for some kind of happy ending.
It gets 5 Stars and it’s easily going down as one of the Top 10 books I read in 2014.All I can think now is that it’s weird enough to admit to loving a story like this, but to be Caroline Kepnes and actually have this thing COME OUT OF YOUR BRAIN????
4.5/5THIS WAS GREAT. So freaky and messed up, just what I was in the mood for! I'm so very excited for the sequel (which apparently is up on NetGalley for anybody who can't wait).
I wanted to kill everyone in this book this time around!
I mean Joe (the stalker is not the only nut job) the girl he latched onto, I hated and I hated her friend!They were all bat shit nuts!!
I still have it 3 stars because I think the author did a fantastic job with Joe the stalker.
I don't see myself re-reading this book again.
He is in love/lust/stalker mode with Beck and she is a weirdo to start.
And Joe stalks the crap out of her until he gets her finally to love him.
I loved this book and hated it too.
Full review posted*4 stars for plot--5 stars for writing*It’s been 16 minutes and 4 hours since I’ve finished reading this lunatic of a book—and although I am scared and disturbed and feeling straight-up icky, I’m also outrageously impressed.With the exception of certain scenarios appearing just a bit too fitting and orchestrated (e.g. multiple persons failing to put pass codes on their phones so a certain stalker can do his job with ease), I think this book was pretty damn amazing.
It left me in a sort of dark mood for hours after reading, but emotional side effects are the marks of a job well done.
THIS BOOK WAS SO ADDICTIVE. I have been in a huge reading rut all year and this is the first book that I started and finished within a week. I HIGHLY recommend the audiobook.
beck is one of the former:You hail from farmers and you're fond of saying that you don't have "a place" on Nantucket, but that your family made a home there.and yet her friendships and relationships are with those far wealthier; toxic people like peach and benji, who embody the "careless people" that populate The Great Gatsby: You are the townie and Benji is the tourist who literally enters you and uses you as a vacation from the wear and tear of the artisanal club soda business only to dump you before Labor Day… Your emotional livelihood is a demented seasonal economy where Labor Day is every other fucking day.andHe rents you out, the same way he rents loft space on SoBro (South Bronx to those of us who don't need to make up bullshit pet names for neighborhoods where we're not wanted.)but with joe, the solidly middle-class beck is the one dating down - with a bookstore clerk from bed-stuy sneered at by peach for his humble background:"I read that people are starting to move there," she says.
Joe, the main character, uses the internet and social media to his advantage, not only to learn everything he can about a girl he met, but to also insert himself so far into her life that she cannot escape him.
This book really made me take a closer look at how much of myself I leave on the internet and how easy it would be for someone like Joe to worm his way into my life.
And there were entire chunks of the book where I would forget who he really is and find myself thinking he is great.
And it’s terrible but I hated the way she treated Joe. WHAT’S WRONG WITH ME.
4 out of 5 stars to You, the first of a two-book thriller and suspense series, written in 2014 by Caroline Kepnes.
All I can start out with is wow - I loved it!
I've tried to pull out all spoilers, but I do give a little bit of the high-level plot and antics away, as I think it will make you want to read it more.
Why This Book  My friend Medhat asked if I’d be interested in a buddy read with him and proposed 5 different books.
I’d read 1 already, didn’t have an interest in 1 of them, and 2 were
Peach is an annoying and pompous witch (I have another word in mind but I'll be nice today) who is almost more psychotic than Joe. Joe’s got a few workers at the book store who interact from time to time, as well as a cop intervening for a few chapters.The action mostly takes place in NYC, but there are a few short trips to Rhode Island and other parts of the immediate vicinity.
It’s truly like watching a train wreck, knowing you can’t really stop it, but kinda wanting to see every little gory detail as it unfolds.Joe is so crystal clear, you would think he’s standing right next you.
This book is to romance what The Shining is to self-help books.The titular You is Guinevere Beck (aka Beck, or simply B.), and our narrator is the uber disturbed Joe Goldberg.
Kepnes did for me what Gillian Flynn has yet to do: made me care about irredeemable characters.
Yes, pop culture prematurely dates many a work of fiction, but it also helps to cement a feel for the time in which the book was written.
Get over it.In summation: If you're a fan of characters who no amount of therapy can cure, you need to read this book.
Flynn might give you characters you can hate.
4.5⭐My favourite nutcase in non-fic lit. Yup, it happened. I finally found a character who makes all the other sociopaths I read about seem like the most stable and sane guys. Told from Joe Goldberg's perspective, a normal —so he thinks— Manhattan bookstore employee, who gets dangerously obsessed with Beck at first sight and the rest, as they say, is history. The narrative is structured like a long monologue to “You”: Guinevere Beck, who becomes the object of his obsessive affection. The second
His inner monologue and his social commentary on the world and pop culture are absolutely hilarious and getting inside his head and learning the inner workings of his thoughts and emotions is what kept me glued to the pages.He’s also extremely well-read and frighteningly meticulous in his ‘endeavours' (stalking the shit out of Beck) but what sets this book apart from others with a similar plot is that, here, both the stalker and the stalked are completely narcissistic and both are SUPREMELY messed up.
Look at you, born into my world today.I have only had one other experience reading second person narration (that I can remember) Bright Lights, Big City- I have to say I wasn't a huge fan, and I found myself avoiding anything written in that point of view...until YOU...From the moment Guinevere Beck walks into the East Village bookstore where Joe works- he can think of nothing else- and vows to make her his.With the help of Facebook, Twitter and a stolen cell phone- Joe is able to hack in to "Beck's" world- Her correspondence, friends, her likes and dislikes, address, her whereabouts at any given moment- Now he is armed with enough information to become a man Beck could fall in love with....But while Joe thinks he is holding all the cards- Beck is starting to show some of her true colors...and an interesting game begins...Ohhhhhhhh YOOOOOOU.
So I spent around fifteen hours thinking Joe was also super racist and it wasn’t a problem?]And yeah, I know someone is going to come in my damn mentions trying to talk about how morality codes don’t apply because this book is ~edgy~ and ~dark~ but hey, I like my compelling moral darkness – I just also know that implying people make up food allergies for fun isn’t compelling moral darkness, it’s boring as hell.
A book written from the perspective of a male stalker?
You had them raving about your book; they talked about how surprised they were at how much they liked it and they even confessed to having sympathy for Joe the stalker.
And the killer is that, knowing one of my particular idiosyncratic weaknesses, you wrote “You” from a second person perspective.
Your wily tricks got me this time Ms Kepnes, but, as I said, I’ve got your number now.
Yup, I'll be reading your next book just to make sure you're not up to your sneaky ways again.
Okay, this book is really, really hard for me to rate.
And it was so twisted and sick and entertaining.
But content-wise, there were a lot of problems I had with this book.
There were definitely points in the story that I was disturbed and a bit offended.
The writing is unique and fits the story really well.
But it wasn't at all pretty writing.
If I had known that, I probably wouldn't have read it, since I'm just not interested in reading that kind of stuff.So knowing all that, I'd say reading this is definitely up to your discretion.
It was entertaining, but I could've gone without reading it at the end of the day.
joe is the one and only redeeming thing about this story.
its quite terrifying how much i enjoyed joe and how entertaining i found him.but the rest of the story i still found to be a little meh.
i didnt really like any of the other characters, so i was grateful for how much this focused on joe.
it wasnt terrible overall, but there really wasnt anything that kept my heart racing, which is kind of what you want with a story this insane.
some parts did feel a little unnecessary or too drawn out, but like i said.
Joe Goldberg is looking for true love.
Joe is pretty sure he's found it with Guinevere Beck.
I loved Joe's wicked sense of humor.
Beck is one of those characters you will love to hate.
I think it's hilarious the way Joe is smitten with Beck.
I loved the hilarious banter between Joe and Benji (Beck's casual boyfriend).
Even though Joe does some horrible things to try and win Beck's affections - you can't help but feel empathy for him.
Caroline Kepnes' writing style is disturbing but incredible beautiful.
I'm looking forward to reading the sequel, "Hidden Bodies".
He loves to read; he’s kind of technologically disengaged; he’s a bit pretentious and New York born-and-bred; he’s a high school dropout but pretty consistently the smartest guy in the room.Kind of a dream guy on paper, if I’m being totally honest.One day, a woman walks into the bookstore - she’s exactly Joe’s Natalie Portman-esque type.
It’s just a little simpler, because he can read her emails and visit her therapist and buy club soda from her druggie old-money lover.This book is, in other words, a nightmare.I’d imagine it’s really polarizing.
Because for me: I’d flirt with the guy at the bookstore register.
It's different and raw and honest and creepy and funny and shocking and scary and hopeful and sick.Joe, the narrator, reminds me of Holden Caulfield from 'The Catcher in the Rye' in the way that he rambles and blames everyone else for his discontentment with his own life.Joe is obviously mentally ill and unstable.
(I think not.) And like Holden Caulfield, Joe is FUNNY.
Joe's a sicko, but a funny sicko.
This book was so creepy but so fun, like a Halloween haunted house.There's a sequel titled 'Hidden Bodies.' I'll just need a few days to think about that one.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestEdit: it's becoming a TV show?! Yessssss 😎I love how it says "Praise for You" on the back of the book. Praise for me? Aww, you shouldn't have!When aspiring author, Guinevere Beck, strides into a secondhand bookstore she has no idea that she's setting the wheels of something utterly terrible in motion. That's because the owner of said bookstore, Joe Goldberg, is a card-carrying psychopath who will do anything - ANYTHING - to get what he want
That's because the owner of said bookstore, Joe Goldberg, is a card-carrying psychopath who will do anything - ANYTHING - to get what he wants.And he's just decided that he wants Beck.Did you shiver?
Part of the fun about YOU is reading between the lines, ignoring his narrative and focusing on his gestures and his dialogue, and trying to figure out how Joe appears to others, without his bias.Also, I love-love-loved the use of social media in this book.
Beck is a little too open with her life, she's an over-sharer, and Joe is able to mine the heck out of that, to figure out where she's going, who she's talking to, what her likes and dislikes are.
But, the unique thing about the book is that the entire story is told from Joe’s perspective, using a second person narrative, which I rarely see happen.
I have to say being inside of Joe’s brain, being privy to his thoughts is one weirdly fascinating, dark and disturbing place to be.
The suspense builds as Joe manipulates Beck by hacking into her phone and stalking her on social media, as well as those closest to her in the most clever and diabolical ways imaginable.
The author did a fantastic job with the characterizations, the dialogue and with the very important pacing of the book and of course Joe’s narrative which couldn’t have been done any better.
What a freaking intense insane read.
Reading this was like watching a crossover episode between Criminal Minds and Law and Order: SVU told from the criminal’s perspective. I loved every second of it.
ABSOLUTELY INCREDIBLE!!!!!!! I've never been happier to know a book has a sequel.
