https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66692.Streams_of_Silver
All of Drizzt books are probably going to be 5 stars, maybe a 4 star. Just sayin' ♥My babies ❤ "Come on," Regis offered. "Sit with Drizzt and me. No one will bother a tough old dwarf, but a tiny halfling and a skinny elf might look like good sporty the brutes in here. We need your size and strength to deter such unwanted attention."Wulfgar's chin firmed up at the compliment and he strode boldly toward the table. Regis shot Drizzt a knowing wink and turned to follow. "Many lessons you will learn
Regis shot Drizzt a knowing wink and turned to follow.
"Many lessons you will learn on this journey, young friend," Drizzt mumbled to Wulfgar, too softly for the barbarian to hear.
The cost of a room in this orc-hole is open thievery!"*****"Guenhwyvar," he called softly.
"Come, my shadow."His beckon reached out across the fabric of the planes, to the astral home of the entity of the panther.
Guenhwyvar leap out across the fabric of the planes, following a flicker of light that could only be the calling of the drow.
Then the cat was in the alley with Drizzt, alert at once in the unfamiliar surroundings.
Joined by drow-elf warrior Drizzt Do'Urden and barbarian fighter Wulfgar, Bruenor embarks on a dangerous quest to find the lost city of Mithral Hall...but they are surprised when their cowardly friend, Regis the Halfling, insists on coming with them.
And no adversary who has appeared in Icewind Dale trilogy so far manages to be more terrifying that what waits for our band of heroes in the book's final battle!With deeper characters, more imaginative twists, and greater villains, "Streams of Silver" is even more impressive than its predecessor.
*** 4 ***"...“How many people long for that "past, simpler, and better world," I wonder, without ever recognizing the truth that perhaps it was they who were simpler and better, and not the world about them?”..."
Sometimes it's resoundingly enjoyable, sometimes it's not.In this second book of the Icewind Dale trilogy, Drizzt, Bruenor, Regis and Wulfgar run off on a quest to find Bruenor's ancestral homeland of Mithral Hall.
Streams of Silver is not really problematic in any way, but it unfortunately did not provide me with anything that would keep my interest.
I remain hopeful that the immense room for improvement gets taken advantage of.Ah, well.
All these things I'm fine with, as long as the stories are overall enjoyable.
Streams of Silver was just not.
To “Ποτάμια από ασήμι” είναι από τα βιβλία εκείνα που από τη χαρά σου που τα διάβασες, θες να χορέψεις κλακέτες, τραγουδώντας ταυτόχρονα το “Kalinka Malinka”. Πόσο μα πόσο αγαπώ Salvatore. To καλύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς έως τώρα.Ο Ντριτζτ με την παρέα του, ψάχνουν τη χαμένη πατρίδα του Μπρουένορ και όπως πάντα, μπλέκονται σε περισσότερες περιπέτειες απότι ο Mario και ο Luigi.«Η νοσταλγία είναι ίσως το μεγαλύτερο από τα ψέματα που λέμε όλοι μας στους εαυτούς μας. Είναι η ωραιοποίηση του παρελθόντο
To καλύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς έως τώρα.Ο Ντριτζτ με την παρέα του, ψάχνουν τη χαμένη πατρίδα του Μπρουένορ και όπως πάντα, μπλέκονται σε περισσότερες περιπέτειες απ΄ότι ο Mario και ο Luigi.«Η νοσταλγία είναι ίσως το μεγαλύτερο από τα ψέματα που λέμε όλοι μας στους εαυτούς μας.
Είναι η ωραιοποίηση του παρελθόντος ώστε να ανταποκρίνεται στις δυσκολίες του παρόντος.
Για κάποιους, αυτό φέρνει ένα μέτρο γαλήνης, μια αίσθηση αυτογνωσίας και προέλευσης, αλλά άλλοι, φοβάμαι, αλλοιώνουν τις αναμνήσεις πάρα πολύ και, εξαιτίας αυτού, τυφλώνονται ως προς την πραγματικότητα.Πόσοι νοσταλγούν «τον παλιό, απλούστερο και καλύτερο κόσμο», αναρωτιέμαι, χωρίς να αναγνωρίζουν ποτέ την αλήθεια ότι ίσως να ήταν αυτοί που ήταν απλούστεροι και καλύτεροι, και όχι ο κόσμος γύρω τους;»Ντριτζτ Ντο Έρντεν (σελ 142)
Consider the scene in Streams of Silver when the companions wade into a battle between some "riders" and some "creatures" along the Surbrin river.
They then see the Riders doing poorly in a battle against creatures that "resembled little trees, though undeniably animated, running about wildly, whacking with their clublike arms." That's enough for Wulfgar and Drizzt and Breunor.
His actions within the books suggest he has learned very little, although his philosophical interjections and Salvatore's narrative commentary would lead us to believe something else entirely.Even if the trees were "monsters," even if they were completely evil, the action of the moment should have given at least Drizzt pause.
But if you, like me, find them a bit lackluster, let me make some recommendations: if you really enjoy Bruenor the dwarf or Regis the halfling, read Tolkien (if you haven’t already).
(But do try to encourage them to read the good stuff like the books listed above once you have them hooked on reading—you’re never too young to read the good writing).This is book number 235 in my Science Fiction & Fantasy reading project.
3.5-3.75/5
3.5-4/5
RTC maybe.
She gets involved in the adventure as more than just a love interest (although she is still that)--but she is the only adventurer who constantly feels and struggles with fear.
Still, a step up from book one.
It annoyed me that Salvatore took the time to call it out).-We get to see more places, and meet some new people along the road.
I enjoy that we are also still dealing with some consequences from book one.Overall 3.5 stars.
"The assassin's strength surprised her as he easily lifted her to a chair. He was a small man, slender as an elf and barely as tall as she, but every muscle on his compact frame was toned to its finest fighting edge. His very presence exuded an aura of strength and an unshakable confidence. This, too, unnerved Cattie-brie, because it wasn't the brash cockiness of an exuberant youngster, but the cool air of superiority of one who has seen a thousand fights and had never been bested" (20). My Rati
At the end of the previous book, our heroes and Regis are leaving Icewind Dale in search of Mithral Hall, Bruenor Battlehammer's birthplace.
The deadly assassin, Artemis Entreri, spends three years trying to find Regis.
There are many what I would call "derived ideas" from Lord of the Rings that show up in The Crystal Shard and more so, in Streams of Silver.
The Crystal Shard and Streams of Silver were R.A. Salvatore's first two books written.
Clearly, if you've read books 1-3 of the Legend of Drizzt, you can see what a great creator and world-builder he is.
Bruenor the dwarf and his companions Wulfgar the barbarian, Regis the halfling and Drizzt the renegade dark elf set forth from Icewind Dale on the most ambitious of quests: to rediscover the lost dwarven stronghold of Mithral Hall, birthplace of Bruenor and his clan.
The road will be long and full of peril, for the Savage Frontier is a harsh place - and hot on their trail is the assassin Artemis Entreri, one of the most infamous killers in the Realms.The sequel to 1988's The Crystal Shard is a fast-faced, action-packed entry into the Forgotten Realms canon that swaps the politicking and warfare of Icewind Dale for a classic quest story.
3.7  Fantastik edebiyatın vazgeçilmezlerinden olan uzun ve maceralı yolculuklar Gümüş Damarları'nın temelini oluşturuyor, aslında (seri içinde özellikle de bu kitapta) yaşanan olaylar, maceranın ilerleyişi, kurgu ve dahası bu türün okurunun fazlasıyla aşina olduğu şeylerdi. Okurken bu aşinalık hissi peşinizi bırakmıyor ve hiçbir şey size farklı gelmiyor. Durum böyle olsa da Salvatore'un mu Drizzt'in mi büyüsü bilmiyorum okurken sıkılmadım, yolculuk hikayelerini tercih etmesem de okurken sıkılmadım, sonu da güzel bitmiş olunca diğer kitabı okumak için bir sebep daha çıkmış oldu.
Drizzt wants to prove that he is better than Artemis by chasing him down, battling him, and ultimately murdering him.
In some books a few main characters get killed off and the story still goes on which means I'm sitting on the edge of my seat every battle thinking: PLEASE DON'T DIE !!
I enjoyed the first 3 (in which I found Drizzt's character to be different than these ones) but the more I read them the less I like and connect with them.Also I hate Regis.
He is questing (a major staple of epic fantasy) to reclaim his lost home in the Mountains where the "Streams of Silver" abound.Long ago, a powerful evil drove the dwarves out of their ancestral homes and Bruenor the dwarf means to go back and right the wrong which was done to his people and reclaim the mountain stronghold.But, one other in their party, a halfling (hobbit for you LOTR-ers) named Regis, is being pursued for a theft he committed years ago.
My love for this series makes it impossible for me to review it. I can't write anything worthy of expressing my feelings for Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, or the Wheel of Time series, and this book is solidly among them. Simply fantasy canon.
Blatant rip-off of Moria down to a character falling down a crevice to his "death" on the back of a gigantic burning beast. Extremely lame and unoriginal plotline.
I love stories about travelling on the road. Lucky for me this story was exactly that!
I took a break from this series to give some other books a try, and so I could return with a greater appreciation for these Legend of Drizzt books.
Always is in a Drizzt book by R.A Salvatore.
So much more of the story is unveiled this way, even though for the most part Legend of Drizzt books do follow our dark elf hero.Partway through the book, the adventure really gains speed with a group gathered together very much like a DnD party.
Streams of Silver has left me eager to continue onto the next in this series!
3.5 stars
This chase aside, their journey to the Halls themselves are filled with perils and trials that test their strength and endurance.I enjoyed this book despite its shortcomings.
Entreri, the assassin, is distinctly placed on the "evil" side (and is compared to Drizzt's drow kin).
(view spoiler)[ Cattie-Brie kills a human and is momentarily upset over it.
(hide spoiler)]Again, few characters see development.
These books are action-driver rather than character driven.
This is demonstrated in the (view spoiler)[ ridiculously stupid choice by Sydney to order Bok away from digging through the rubble covering Drizzt and Entreri.
While I enjoyed following the four friends' journey into other areas of the Forgotten Realms, I did miss the Icewind Dale setting.
I like the twist that dwarves live for so long that they often need to resort to magic to help refresh long ago memories and with a character as loveable as Bruenor, it's a pleasure to follow his journey to his ancestral home.
The only plus side of this is that it establishes Catti-brie as an interesting character that's neither the ubiquitous coldhearted warrior nor dewey-eyed Buttercup.Much of the journey is a mess because it alternates between the four friends (or should I say three friends and one douchebag) and the band of evil wizards/assassin/Catti-brie, though it does serve as a guided tour of the Forgotten Realms.
A. Salvatore, has done a wonderful job throughout the series of keeping the reader interested and always wanting for more.
I am already in the middle of the next book The Halfling's Gem. As always we have our favorite dark elven stoic Drizzt Do'Urden and friends, but this time they are put on an astounding quest.
This is truly one of the more action packed books of the series.
I personally loved all of the conflict and action packed events in this book.
It just went from one exciting event to another and keeps the reader wonderfully interested in whats to come next.
Not as great as Icewind Dale #1, but that's OK.Likes:- Wulfgar and his appetite (for not only adventure, but food as well/third helping of breakfast)- Regis and his ruby wokring on locals to get some ponies, and eventually having a meal (since he had only eaten one supper that day) and having to decline the fourth helping, haha!- Bruenor's warm side, as well as both Drizz't's and his pride in the young warrior Wulfgar.- The ivy mansion with some humorous elements (statue of actual wizard from an unsuccessful mix of potions and the family dog who was a second cousin, again a victim of bad potion mixture)Dislikes:- Still has quite similar parts to the Lord of the RingsOverall, a good read but I liked #1 more...
Fires hungry for adventure burned in his pale eyes as clearly as in Bruenor's, but unlike the dwarf, Wulfgar's gaze was not fixed upon the straight road before them.
And, while the background to the quest itself is strongly reminiscent of Tolkien (a dwarf whose clan was driven from their home by evil beings, in some sort of cross between Erebor and Moria), the quest itself takes a sufficiently different course to be enjoyable.
It no longer feels quite so much like the protagonists (particularly Drizzt) face no serious challenges, and the scenes of conflict between the antagonists add something too.There's a few eyeroll-worthy moments all the same — the over-the-top magic-usage in the Longsaddle chapter(s), for example, and the events at Silverymoon (complete with a thinly-disguised copy of Tolkien's lembas-bread).
Segunda entrega de la trilogía del Valle del Viento Helado que, a diferencia de la primera, no necesita introducir personajes y descripciones de lugares, por lo que la acción y las aventuras no se hacen esperar y ya en el primer capítulo encontramos uno de los enfrentamientos de primer nivel de la novela.Sin embargo, a medida que avanza el relato y a pesar de las excelentes descripciones, por momentos algunas partes se hacen bastante lentas y el interés decae un poco.
Overall, very enjoyable.
-The battle through the Trollmoors is epic stuff.
It's the one thing that stood out in memory of past readthroughs.-The cast of introduced characters will be used heavily throughout the series.
Harpell's are a delight and the lady Alustriel and her sisters are also revisited.-I thought Artemis Entreri is bland and wooden, as far as deadly assassins go.
I assume his character will also flesh out in future books.-I like Catti-Brie and Bruenors progression.
I felt for both of them more than I thought I would.-Okay, so Lady Alustriel mentions two of her sisters.
This is the kind of fantasy I love!
You've got great characters in a well-crafted world, some humor in your dialogue and quite a few good fights.I like that this book is a bit of a road journey and you get to see more of the Forgotten Realms.
I also like how the book ended with some great dragon battling going on in deep dwarven caverns.And hey, how can you not like that cover?Overall, a great book I've read 2 to 3 times and will read again.
If you haven't read R.A. Salvatore yet then I have to question your intelligence, or label as "fantasy fan."
This was a real page turner following Bruenor Battlehammer's quest to seek his ancestral home of Mithral Hall. A creepy, skilled assassin breaks into the story and becomes a menacing character with blade skills that rival those of Drizzt. It's definately a "bridge" novel between books 4 and 6 as the story has only a minor conclusion with much to be resolved. The characters are terrific and the adventures are engaging. The fight through the Trolls as described in the book would make some great cinema if someone had the money and the talent.
