https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1086452.The_World_Wreckers
I've been reading Marion Zimmer Bradley's Darkover novels in order of publication, and if you've seen my fairly negative reviews of the last few, you may be wondering why I keep reading them.
Well, before The World Wreckers, Marion Zimmer Bradley was wondering why she kept writing them.
But none of that came at the expense of my enjoyment of this book.The World Wreckers takes place as Andrea Closson, representing a shady interplanetary business interest, plots to destroy the fabric of Darkovan society.
This book is the story of a few who come together, from far and wide, to fight for Darkover's survival.
She, by the way, created the0s world of Darkover while living in Abilene, Texas, a place where I also lived for 15 years.
This is another of the early 70s books that's half SF half fantasy; a mysterious woman named Andrea has been hired to "world wreck," a highly illegal activity that involves creating instability on a planet so that it will be open to acquisition/takeover by the corporate interests that hired Andrea in the first place.
The reason for this seems to be that a certain class of Darkovians have phenomenal psychic power, and these powers, in conjunction with modern technology, created incredibly destructive wars that nearly destroyed Darkover.
The irony is that Andrea Closson is a chieri, and the world she is destroying is her home, the telepaths, her distant cousins.Regis Hastur knows that something is wrong.
The pilot project brings together Darkovans - Regis, his paxman and lover Danilo Syrtis, the elderly Desideria (from Winds of Darkover) and her granddaughter Linnea - and Terrans - David Hamilton, David Connor, and Rondo - and most unexpectedly, two chieri - Keral, one of the last fertile members of a dying race, and Missy, a foundling with no knowledge of her background who has wandered the Terran Empire for centuries, living by her ability to project a powerful femininity but so psychically damaged that she is barren.
The last, chronologically, of the Darkover series, it comes about in the middle of the sequence of composition, and reflects Bradley's growing courage about and fascination with the implications of the telepathic mental union she has posited.
And dealing with the implications of mental union involves, essentially, the nearest thing we mere humans have to it - that is, sex.
But one has the feeling that Zimmer Bradley is more interested in working through her own taboos - homosexuality, adultery, sexuality of the old.
The book wanders so close to pornography (and effective pornography!) that one hesitates about literary judgment.
I dislike the distant third person and the weird head hopping that may be a function of the time the book was written in as much as anything.
There's a lot of talk about the person 'switching from active to passive' as they move from neutral-assigned-male to female and a lot of other shit about female passivity (as well as some ideas about how being barren makes a woman a man) but this is somewhat subverted in that the human man fucking the alien eventually concludes that instead of trying to force gender roles onto this non-gender conforming relationship, he has to accept it as it is and he cries in his partner's arms and lets himself express fear and vulnerability to them.
But the fact that it's quite late in Darkovan chronology (Regis Hastur is described as being 24, and Desideria Lanart-Storn is in her late 80s or early 90s) means that people who have read the books in order of internal chronology will find repeated inconsistencies.
The Darkovans didn't do so, presumably because they had a large and thriving community of native telepaths at the time--but they would have been driven to this point eventually anyway, because even when the Terran Empire first made contact with Darkover, the telepathic community was failing.
Almost the entire plot is dedicated to the chieri after Regis Hastur decides that the lack of laran-talented individuals in Darkover will lead to an inevitable slide into barbarism and darkness, and gets the Empire to help track down telepaths and train them, because this is when the Empire believed in telepathy.
Well, the book was published in 1971.There's a subplot about the growing love between Keral and David, an Imperial medic picked up by Project Telepath who decides to stay on Darkover and who shows up in The Children of Kings having sired a child among the chieri, but it failed to catch my interest.
Those who read the series in chronological order will find quite a few minor to medium-sized continuity glitches between World Wreckers and preceding books such as Heritage of Hastur and Sharra's Exile.
These include things like physical descriptions of certain characters, modes of death for characters from previous books, timeline discrepancies, even the existence of some characters (for example, in World Wreckers Regis' oldest children are said to be in the nursery -- ignoring his two older sons from Heritage of Hastur and Sharra's Exile, who shoud be roughly 14 and 10 at this stage).Also -- not a complaint, just an observation -- even though this book was written several years before the preceding two books in the series, for some reason this book discusses sex in entirely different terms than the "earlier" (chronologically earlier, written later) volumes.
But if you're new to the Darkover books, read Heritage of Hastur instead.
It's the only planet with developed telepaths.The story begins with some entity hiring Andrea Closson to "wreck" Darkover.
In order to pay for the aid they would have to join the Terran Empire, and the entities who hired the world wreckers would stand to gain much when Darkover was exploited.There are a couple of mentions of Andrea and what she has done, but most of the story follows Regis Hastur and the group of offworld telepaths that he has asked the Terran's to find and bring to Darkover.
So this story was an attempt to wrap up the major theme that had dominated Darkover novels to this point, which was the cultural tension between the feudal Darkovan society and the high-tech Terran Empire that wants to establish a foothold on the planet Darkover.
The World Wreckers uses environmental sabotage as a plot device to force Terrans and Darkovans to work together.This book represents something of a turning point in the Darkover series, where the themes shift from culture clashes to more individual struggles.
The other is a new openness towards the exploration of sexual themes, which allowed her to say things she hadn't been able to say before.
I'm a fan of Marion Zimmer Bradley, but my affection for her rests not on the Avalon books, which I didn't care for, but her Darkover series.
This is an early book in terms of Marion Zimmer Bradley's career, in my opinion before she had come into her own and honed her craft; I'd count this as one of her weakest books among those not involving collaborations.
Yet chronologically in terms of the timeline of the series, this is the last book, at least if you count those we can be sure MZB wrote on her own, not part of any collaboration.
Well, we've turned a corner on the decline of the Comyn and Darkover in general.
Again, lots of this revolves around sexuality and the fluidity between telepaths in general and the Chieri in particular.
Of course, she seemed to largely gloss over actual sex scenes so maybe she was just not comfortable with the topic.
Love that we've stopped jumping generations with each book and are still following Regis.
Anxious to dice into the next book and see what comes of this love fest.
La storia dei chieriAnche se nella cronologia interna di Darkover questo romanzo si colloca dopo L’EREDE DI HASTUR e L’ESILIO DI SHARRA, è stato scritto prima e, se si leggono i libri in ordine cronologico interno alla saga, si notano alcune discrepanze o, per meglio dire, si nota che alcuni concetti erano solo in nuce e che sono stati sviluppati successivamente – e con che maestria!
IL RIBELLE DI THENDARA presenta, più di RITORNO A DARKOVER, la storia dei chieri.
Mentre in RITORNO A DARKOVER la storia dei chieri è presentata in modo marginale e congiuntamente alle altre razze originarie del pianeta, in IL RIBELLE DI THENDARA si parla precipuamente della storia di questa specifica razza e delle sue peculiarità.
Worldwreckers are the illegal yet effectively productive company that works in secret and gets the Terran Empire what it needs from resisting planets.
In addition to targeting key environment and economic elements, there is an underhanded and illegal war against the telepath caste.
The frightening mystic, angelic, powerful, and frail alien chieri race is further revealed, as one of their own contributes to Hastur’s desperate efforts.
The chieri are sharing the same fate as the telepaths.
Through the efforts and events of the Worldwreckers and participants of the Telepath Council, a foundling will return home after an unnaturally long lifetime, but not for the reasons she thought.
The tale is slickly done and covers the nature of the sexual being, the definition of femininity, culture shock, and, more than usually, the nature of capitalist exploitation of the environment and the peoples who inhabit it.
It is also Marion's story about the chieri and their ancient heritage and the second tale of Jason Allison.
As is so often the case, Bradley gives us a glimpse into her sexually deviant world in a vivid rape scene in the midst of a story of unconventional love.
This is the 'last' Darkover book by some chronologies, detailing the events after The Sword of Aldones (which was rewritten much later into Sharra's Exile), with a fair amount of continuity between the two books.
It seems to signal the beginning of MZB's interest in using Darkover to stretch the limits of acceptable late 60s/early 70s sexual mores through examination of her male character's sexuality -- a trend which is most throughly explored in The Forbidden Tower.
1983 Grade B+.
Year 2140.2013 Grade A-.
Becomes a bit to introspective at the end and I speed read as necessary but otherwise exceptional SciFi.=========================================Notes on The World Wreckers.
These notes were taken during reading long before the internet existed.
It does have errors.
Seven to eight years after Heritage of Hastur.
Spaceport in operation 84 years.
Darkover joins the empire by telepathy but it's old ways remain in existence!
This book appears to be the climax of Darkover joining Terra.---- charactersDesidra Allaird (92!)Regis Hastur (24!) (7 years in council)Lerrys Ridnow (42-43 = error?)Jay AllisonThe last Darkover book I read.
Upon rereading, this novel is less interesting than I found it 25 years ago.
And some of the problems may also stem from Bradley's rush to write for the income (in just three or four years should would show incredible growth as an author).
On the other hand, this books is notable for several "firsts" for a science fiction work: treatment (albeit primitive and often confused, if not contradictory) of lesbianism, male gay relationships, human/alien sex (although twenty years previously Philip Jose Farmer had also explored this territory, Bradley's aims are somewhat different than Farmer's ever were).


Questi primi libri di Darkover (primi in ordine di pubblicazione, quasi ultimi all'interno della cronologia darkovana) sono parecchio differenti dagli ultimi, o meglio dai centrali (gli ultimi scritti da Marion Zimmer Bradley da sola, per intenderci): si sente che la maturità artistica della scrittrice non ha ancora raggiunto l'apice, e sono molto più fantascientifici rispetto ai successivi. Comunque una lettura interessante per chi ama la saga.
Not one of the more memorable or well-loved Darkover novels, it is nonetheless pivotal in the Danvan/Regis timeline. I just think the whole psychic experiment was worthless time as it meant about squat in the continuing storyling.Or maybe I just don't appreciate books where assassins target newborns.
I am not too fond of Darkover novels. They smack rather too much of mysticism and all the dark aspects of human nature, even among the good guys. This one is better than most, IMHO. Sadly it is rather too short to get one more than halfway across the continent so its value as a sky terror pacifier is limited.
Interesting ideas on sexual fluidity that Ursula K. LeGuin handled better (if a bit more dryly). Focus on the attractiveness of adolescent-looking aliens distinctly creepy after discovering what a sexual predator Bradley was. Felt a bit rushed too--lots of plot stuffs the last third while the first hundred pages trudge along. But, uh, otherwise pretty decent.
If it has one star I liked it a lot If it has two stars I liked it a lot and would recommend itIf it has three stars I really really liked it a lot If it has four stars I insist you read it If it has five stars it was life changing
I picked this one up at a book sale because I was curious to see what else MZB could do -- and I thought the concept (essentially, non-biological terraforming) was interesting. Unfortunately, there wasn't much about this book that I enjoyed.
Interesting the foreseeing of the world gathering together to save the planet, led by Hastuer. It delves into non-Darkoven telepaths, lost Cherie, coming home, inter-species love, and a telepathic orgy.
I read a lot of the Darkover novels while I lived in San Francisco. I don't really remember a lot of details of each one, but I liked the world in general. She handled psi powers in a believable way and created a really authentic culture.
Originally intended as the last Darkover novel"," this book provided closure for many of the storylines in the series. Happily"," MZB decided to write many more!
Autographed
