https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30248.Narcissus_in_Chains
I was fascinated with the werewolf added into the fray thing - talk about a messy love life!
It got to the point that every man who crossed her path fell madly in love, lust or slack jawed admiration of her whether he was human, vampire, werewolf, psychopath, you name it.
But if I pick up a book to read a mystery or some fantasy and get doused with a couple hundred pages of fellatio before the plot even begins, I'm not reading what I picked the book up to read.This book marks a major turning point in the series for me.
[My opinion, for what it‘s worth...exactly:] With the exception of Micah, I've read the entire Anita Blake series up to this point (Blood Noir, #16) and, in the aforementioned opinion, Obsidian Butterfly was the last decent book, after which the series should have been renamed Anita Blake, Vampire Humper since the majority of what little action takes place occurs in the bedroom, the back seat of automobiles, on the kitchen table, the bathroom floor...etc, etc, etc.
Beginning with Narcissus In Chains, gone are the days when Anita spends her time raising the dead, kicking monster butt, and slaying rogue vampires, with threat to life and limb.
Totally weird stuff, but worth every minute of couch time!This book takes the entire series, and swings it into a completely different direction.
“Now enter and enjoy the delights, and the terrors, of my world.”Anita’s confusion and fear of love, as usual, leaves her cynical and stubborn.“If it works out, it’s the best thing in the world.
If it doesn’t work out, it’s like having your heart torn out and chopped into little pieces while you watch.
I mean, Anita has sex at least THREE TIMES in this book.
On the other, it just sounds like an excuse so that Anita can have as much sex as she wants and not be considered a slut.
Which, if Anita wants to have sex, she shouldn't need some gorram "ardeur" to make her not a slut.
Also, I am damn tired of Anita being talked round to a point of view over the course of fifteen pages, then if she's left alone for two seconds she reverts to her previous stance.
I think J-C is a dull fop who lays down for Anita like a brocade doormat, but even now I feel a weird pity for him, that he had the misfortune to hook up with these two morons who are going to get him killed.
The saving grace of this book is that when Anita is having sex with a cat-person, most anatomical features of cat breeding are not carried over.
So why would I want to read this crap?It's no longer about the baddies that come out at night.
It's PAINFUL.And come on, I know I'm a bit behind on this series having started it late, but this book was written in the 2000's.
Men with hair down to their waists with vinyl shirts and pants.
She's ALWAYS (I don't think there's been a book without this) says something about seeing something horrific and "my mind simply refused to understand".
It's so annoying!I don't think I can read anymore of this series.
I know many people think that after Obsidien Butterfly things went down hill and there was nothing but sex sex sex all the time, but if you look at the emotions involved and Anita's blossoming power in this book it is more than any book yet, plus there is nothing wrong with liking a little bit of sex (or alot) with your reading.
So Since I do like those things I name this book my absolute favorite and I'm sure there are many people out there who would agree with me.
Just your average book named after a transvestite, sado-masochistic were-hyena. I swear that market is getting flooded! My Internet is out until Monday and I'm using my phone, so I'll keep it short. Anita is still annoying, Richard is still a dick, Jean Claude is still awesome, and Nathaniel is still sweet.
And then she killed the head wereleopard in town and became the wereleopard's Nimir-Ra (queen).So, when this book began, Anita was 26 and a necromancer human servant to the Master of the City and the werewolf king's lupa and the wereleopards' queen.
(See how I said to just roll with it?) During the course of the book, Anita is accidentally impaled on the claws of one of her wereleopards, so it seems she might become their Nimir-Ra for like real, yo.
Oh, and she has also become a Master Necromancer, in that she now has a vampire servant.
And that panwere I mentioned earlier.
First read: June 2006Re-read: December 2017Rating: 4/5 starsThis is the book where the Anita Blake series takes a huge turn away from the urban fantasy/police procedural plots that endeared the character and the world she lived in to an awful lot of fans and introduced a concept changed the way Hamilton wrote this series for years to come.*SPOILERS AHEAD*Anita returns to Jean-Claude and St. Louis after her self-enforced six month absence.
Jean-Claude, the vampire, started out fairly menacing, and the whole plotline with the different marks, with Anita struggling to remain human, resonated with me.
Richard the werewolf represented something different: someone struggling himself to remain human, but perhaps in vain given his basic nature.
And you could see Anita struggling not just between the two men, but what they represented.
And I liked that Anita had a web of relationships beyond men she was romantically involved with, such as Dolph her colleague on the police force and her friend Ronnie Sims.Spoilers Start Here--for this and future booksAll that changed with this book.
So I’m going to scrape some plot out here to write aboutAnita has, after the drastic events of the last book, decided to end her 6 month separation with Richard and Jean-Claude and re-bound the marks since without the marks being properly linked all three of them are walking around with a great big target painted on their foreheads.
We had Anita and Richard finally realising they need to work something out with Jean-Claude and stop doing the whole running for the hills thing (or the turn into acid thing).
*le sigh*So, this is one of my least favorite novels of all time.
I began reading this series as a senior in high school (about 2002) and was enraptured by this giant world of were-folk, vampires, and our favorite ball-busting, vampire staking, caustically witty Anita Blake.I followed the series dutifully and enjoyed every page.
But I got to this novel and became extremely dumbstruck and disappointed.
Where did Anita go, and who is this crazed sex fiendish psuedo were-queen, vampire servant woman?The change to the writing style happened so drastically that I knew there was no going back.
Anita has been gone for six months distancing herself from her men and spending time with Marianne in an attempt to sort things out and focus on gaining better control of her magic.
I would rather have Anita as a Nimir-ra with her leopard clan than being Lupa to the wolves.
Come on, he's the king of his clan so why does he have to be so girly?I was very surprised by how jealous Jean-Claude was of Micah.
I've always been undecided about how Jean-Claude really felt about Anita.
I really wanted Anita to punch him one more time on the other side of his pretty face.
This is as far as I’ve gotten, both in my original reading and in this current rereading of the series — though I’ve every attention of going on from here — but this book exemplifies what’s gone wrong with this series from its initial excellent start.1.
Since Anita barely handled last book’s menace, make sure her powers get similarly escalated (in size, number, or both) this time.
Thus, everything gets longer and more complicated and overblown.This book so badly needs an editor to cut out about 1/3 of what’s going on — cast, crises, and metaphysics.
The book is bloated with them, all held together by Anita getting herself into a mess by either being too ruthless or too soft or both.
(In other words, "Cerulean Sins" was the first book I had to wait for.) But a lot of it is the fact that I like the possibilities this book opened up.This book represented a turning point in the series, one that many readers disliked, but I was quite fond of.
I love Jean-Claude's lover's list and the fact that it was realized in future books.
Of the vamps, we saw plenty of Jean-Claude, Asher, Damian, and even Gretchen, plus we were introduced to Meng Die and Faust.
What can I say, I was surprised.Some were good surprises, some not so much.On one hand, there were a lot of things that I didn't like.
Can't say I liked them but they made sense.On the other hand, there were a lot of things that I really enjoyed.
For me, that's one of the most important things in a book: to make react.
It was long but really fast paced.
It's everything I began to expect form this series.I just couldn't bring myself to rate this book any lower.
Despite all the things I disliked, this was a damn well written book.
But luckily, because there's so many other characters that I still love, it didn't hinder my enjoyment of the series.In this installment, Anita is dealing with the fallout of having left for almost 6 months while trying to get her metaphysical shit together.
And of course, when she comes back she expects everyone to just be happy that she's back and she doesn't understand that she left people in some pretty effed up situations.
I can easily understand people's qualms when it comes to this series but I still love it and I will continue my reread because I really want to get caught back up.
I liked most of the previous Anita Blake books (the exception being Blue Moon), but this really is were the series shifts.
There is no real plot to this book, honestly.
The melding that occurs seems to have been pointless, and just made Anita weaker, in the form of enslaving her to sex.
If you are looking for a book that is just pointless sex, read this.
If you are look for a book that deals with a plot that has sex, and handles sex and rape in an adult manner, this is not the book for you.
Richard at first I was like oh awesome he's becoming cool, calm and collected and getting with the program ummmmm WRONG!!!!
OK so what is it with he shifter boys, they all seem to be really hung....do you think it's because it's a shifter thing????
I think so poor JC not getting commended for his man size...
Micah now he was and still is an interesting character...he's a dominant but he's definitely not as dominant as Anita, though there are few who are more dominant than her.But now that her and Richard are officially threw, wonder how things are going to go now.
After possibly the best, tightest, most suspenseful Anita Blake book yet (Obsidian Butterfly), we get this WEIRD story.
At first I liked it because Anita's back in St Louis and it looks like she's reuniting with both JC and Richard and apparently everybody is going to be OK with that (after god knows how much drama to get there).
Where is Anita the badass, super-Christian little prude who didn't believe in premarital sex??As many other reviewers have commented, this book seems to be the beginning of something else entirely.
She introduces it as a new metaphysical condition Anita suffers from as a result of being bonded with JC (who is apparently an incubus)...
This book is probably the worst of the series so far.
Not to mention the fact that she has to fuck everyone she comes into contact with.No matter how many times she gets attacked by a were, she never gets infected.
She's practically a female version of Blade when it comes to the vampire issues she also deals with.Seriously Laurell K, bring the books back to what they were because now, you're just getting sad and pathetic.
If it weren't for the fact that I hate stopping a series once I get involved, I'd stop.However, I have too much love for Asher and Jean-Claude to stop.
Not very happy with this one. Before this book I already knew Anita had screwed up, don't need to be a genius to know that.
The only explanation I could come up with was either that these people Anita's supposed to love have lied and/or kept major important facts from her (which in past would have been cause for her to terminate the relationship - one way or another), or that Ms. Hamilton couldn't figure out how to keep things fresh without adding on new complications.The other thing that started out believable and degenerated to "completely unacceptable" (in my opinion) was Anita's sex life.
(And frankly, if it was meant to BE that final mark, then the whole "immortality" thing seems to have been forgotten, or Anita just didn't find it important enough to angst over.)And then we have Micah.
Because she's just that awesome, of course, which was something of a running gag in the previous books, but is now beginning to grow into ridiculous proportions.
The only problem is, after the previous books where Anita was almost a prude, the sudden explosion of sexual awakening comes off as frankly ridiculous and almost crass, and detracts somewhat from the plot.
No matter how sexy that man is!Last book Anita was becoming this unrelatable character badass and the author tries to humanize her in this one by making her cry all the time and throw up and other characters love her whichever they may be or whatever she may have done...
But sure as hell she will take these all in a stride while overly describing her fears again and again you will want to claw your eyes out just not read them again.
This is often noted as the first book in the great decline of Anita Blake, but I noticed that it many of my GR friends have given it 4/5 stars.
My favorite Anita Blake books are the ones with a very strong horror background.
This was also a weak book for me, because really I couldn’t figure out why there was the conflict.
It added nothing to the story and honestly, if my best friend was going on and on the way Richard and Anita do – I would refuse to listen to it.
That was, I still believe, the only reason Hamilton ever created this character.Clearly, I have some very strong opinions about this book.
I have them, though, because this book was the beginning of the end of my years long love affair with the Anita Blake universe.
No, the issue I started having, and what eventually put me off the series all together, are the characters Hamilton started throwing at us that were clearly no more than eye candy (however that works in book form).
2% (sucky) plot8% Anita gaining new powers10% bringing other characters down (no one can be even nearly as awesome as Anita)40% teeth-grindingly bad sex (everything from group to nearly-a-rape, YACK!)40% praising Anita for being such a hot/strong/wise/powerful/special person= CRAPIf I hadn't read Black Dagger Brotherhoods and Twilights, this would get 1 star.Edit: Oh yeah, erected penises waltzing around and "wet pounding"?... Bitch, please.Edit: I'll take it back, this totally deserves 1 star.
Really a 1/2 star rating.
