https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68524.Enemy_of_God
4.5/5 StarsEnemy of God, the second book in 'The Warlord Chronicles' trilogy by Bernard Cornwell, and the series so far, has truly been serendipity for me.As I mentioned in my previous review, I’ve never bothered to start Cornwell’s work, it brings me joy when someone, a friend (even better again when it’s from one of your favorite authors) recommended a book/series to you and you loved it.
Book 1: 3*Book 2: 3.5*'sThis darker and less romanticized view of Camelot picked up speed in book two.
I've grown to enjoy more and more this version of the characters and especially the view of Lancelot and Guinevere who definitely don't come out smelling like roses.The clash between the Britons and the Saxons also escalates as does the pagans vs the Christians which in some ways the story starts to form if not a prelude at least a precursor to the Saxon Stories series.
This series is being done on audio and I've enjoyed the narrator and look forward to the conclusion in book 3.
Bernard Cornwell does not disappoint and once again I enjoyed his book immensely. The way he connects myth and fiction in this book is astonishing. I applaud his singular storytelling skills and I cannot wait for next (and unfortunately final) book in this series!
This one was a little slow at the start and it took me a while to get back into the flow of the style and era but when things got going then the pages flew by.Derfel and Arthur are two very well rounded characters, add into that some of the side characters (if you can call Merlin a side character) the ensemble make for a great read.
No point in jumping the gun as there is one more novel to go so let's hope for a great finale and move past how it ended.Overall a very good read but a few minor flaws making it lose a little rating overall but looking forward to the finale and how things come together.If you like this try: "Argincourt" by Bernard Cornwell
Merlin is at the centre of the politics, others think they control the kingdom but in reality it is the druid & his accolade Nimue that pull the strings in the background & it’s a grand characterisation of the mystical pair.We start with an adventure, as is oft the way with second books in fantasy trilogies (not that I would say this series is a fantasy style trilogy for the record) I have found, which involves the central character Derfel & Merlin, (along with others) where the recovery of the ancient artefacts of the gods are front & centre of the story......
So,an escape from more formal literary pursuits.Cornwell is a consummate storyteller.He distills his
Com uma narrativa absurdamente leal aos fatos descobertos pelo autor, somos transportados novamente para a Britânia de antigamente, onde seus habitantes tentam defender suas terras dos invasores saxões.Dessa vez, além dos problemáticos saxões, nosso protagonista também terá que lidar, junto a Artur, com o rápido crescimento do cristianismo na Britânia.
Apesar de ser exaltado como um exímio e leal guerreiro nas canções dos bardos (e em praticamente todos os livros que falam da lenda de Artur) e todos saberem que o mesmo nunca esteve nem mesmo em uma parede de escudos, ele ainda assim não possui miolo algum em sua cabeça e faz de tudo para prejudicar os outros, inclusive Derfel.
Number two in the Warlord series.This is the warts and all story of Arthur, Guinevere, Sir Lancelot and the rest of the round table knights.There is nothing cosy and romantic about this tale.
Lancelot is a narcissistic pig.
Guinevere has delusions of grandeur and Arthur wants nothing more than to be a farmer.The usual suspects, greed, power, sex, revenge and religion, keep getting in the way of Arthur's aspirations of becoming a farmer.The game's afoot so unleash the dogs of war.
And nobody does this better than Arthur.
Bernard Cornwell never fails to entertain.
Enemy of God   is a solid 4 stars, maybe even 5 stars. I took a little away because I wanted Arthur to be a little more cunning and realistic. He comes across too naïve in areas where he should not be. The portrayal of Christianity and how it spreads conflict is a major theme and isn’t pretty. But it is probably realistic. While this Arthurian tale is not like any others, if you are looking for a “Grail” quest, you will find it here…kind of. This part of the tale is told in the warm summertime,
Enemy of God 
is a solid 4 stars, maybe even 5 stars.
I took a little away because I wanted Arthur to be a little more cunning and realistic.
He comes across too naïve in areas where he should not be.
The portrayal of Christianity and how it spreads conflict is a major theme and isn’t pretty.
But it is probably realistic.
While this Arthurian tale is not like any others, if you are looking for a “Grail” quest, you will find it here…kind of.
This part of the tale is told in the warm summertime, when Arthur is at his greatest power.
Per my review of WINTER KING, this is a different take on Arthur, focusing on the legend and the times.
And those times were when Briton was desperately fighting itself and trying to hold back the Saxon invasions.
The main character, Derfel, achieves more status, fights in more battles, discovers his father is a Saxon leader and creates a rift with his childhood female friend, Merlin's apprentice.
Enjoy!STORY/PLOTTING: B plus to A minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: A minus ACTION SCENES: B plus to A minus; HISTORICAL FOCUSES/ACCURACY: B plus to A minus; OVERALL GRADE: B plus to A minus; WHEN READ: 2005 (read three times) (revised review 1/30/13)
After reading this, I have decided I don’t want to read the third book in the series because if I do, it will end.
But no seriously, I will read it but I won’t be happy to finish it; it’s just one of those epic series’ that you come across every so often that is that good you don’t want to read it because when you have you can never read it again for a first time.This novel is fantastic, the character development strong and the plot action packed.
It’s just great!
For fans of Arthur and his knights, this is a unique take upon the tale that stands out from the crowd.
Cornwell's splendid trilogy of King Arthur continues in the second novel, "Enemy of God" - and it's altogether a darker, dirtier, more brutal world than the Arthur myths most of us remember growing up, with new twists to many familiar characters.
Derfel, his right-hand man, has problems of his own: he is hopelessly in love with Ceinwyn, the princess Arthur spurned for Guinevere, and who is now promised to the detestable Lancelot.
Derfel makes a desperate bid to claim Ceinwyn, but finds himself on a journey with the mysterious Merlin to find an artifact Merlin claims will bring the old gods back to Britain.
This was a reread for me after having read it first over a decade ago.
Wow time flies.
I couldn't really remember the book and as I read it, it didn't look familiar.
only had the occasional de ja vu.
I am wondering if that is because it can be a little boring at times and therefore it never stuck in my head all those years ago.
I dropped a star because while at times it was a 5 star read, there were other times when Bernard Cornwell needed to stop over writing and get on with it.
Want an Arthurian legend with grit? With raw human emotion? With unexpected betrayals and intrigue? Here you go.This is the second in the Arthur/Warlord trilogy and keeps the same momentum started in The Winter King. It could almost have ended here. You could stop after this and have a satisfying saga.But who would want to? There's still one book to go.
People in these books are being overwhelmingly deceitful and self-possessed and sadistic and then there's this kind of odd-looking guy on a huge horse with this gentle and warm demeanor, a rock-solid and utterly benevolent (and pagan!) moral code who also has an indisputable gift at killing people.
The rest of the characters, although not as particularly shiny as Arthur all have their own unique personalities and motives, something I always look for and like.That potent mix of pagan magic, Christian ritual, the intense cast of characters and pervasively creepy, cold and dark setting all really made me love this book.
The climax was particularly intense and in a way even moreso than some of the climactic battles in other Cornwell books.
But at the same time, it was just that tiny bit shy of a 5 star read.
*crosses fingers*)Cornwell picks right up where he left off previously in The Winter King - perhaps a day or so after the battle of Lugg Vale.
I know that marriages were conducted quite differently back then, with women often marrying men up to three-times their own age, but it's hard to read about a 'real romance' between a 40 year old man and a 15 year old girl and not think squeamishly about the standards of modern society.Basically though, most of the novel can be summed up as follows:Hi, my name is Lancelot and my hobbies include stealing your girl and your kingdom.
Arguably the worst Cornwell book I have read to date.
I still go think Nimue is excellent and I do like this interpretation of Guinevere who is arguably the most dangerous character in the series.However the main character I find gets more dumb as the book goes on and Arthur seems to become more pathetic each time he appears.I am a fan of Cornwell but found this one to be boring with a lacklustre ending.
I did enjoy the first half of the book, although The Dark Road was arguably the most disturbing chapter I have read of Cornwells.Not sure I will revisit this series, I do have the third in the series but I honestly don't care what happens next so might be there for a while.
Everything I said in my much longer review of The Winter King (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...) applies to Enemy of God, as well, except ramped up to 11.
The story was tighter, Christianity and Druidism both came across as more sinister and yet somehow more pitiable, and the characters plunged into that old truth of how everything goes wrong in Act II, when things are darkest before the dawn.My only criticism (of a book as close to flawless as humanly possible) is that towards the end, Arthur's naivety started to strain credulity.
But then, love is blind.
We've all said and believed idiotic things while feeling the same way.
I felt like I was living in 6th century Britain; the book did a great job of transporting me.
I thought the whole trilogy did a wonderful job of reimagining the traditional characters in a way which made sense of them in a historical context.
I can't say why I liked it more than the first or third books in the trilogy, but I did.I just can't say that it was really good.
No es sólo que no haya bajado un ápice la calidad de esta novela respecto de la primera entrega de la trilogía, sino que logra un efecto que muchas novelas prometen y luego no logro experimentar en casi ninguna: empatizas profundamente con los personajes, quieres que triunfen, quieres que fracasen, quieres que se recuperen cuando se encuentran mal.Me flipa esa sensación tan fuerte que experimentas cuando sabes con certeza que una narración te va a atrapar y que, sea cuando sea, narre lo que narre, te va a entretener y retener.
Ninguno de los temas que trata Cornwell con agilidad y pluralidad pasan desapercibidos.¡Que lo leáis!

Much better than the first book in the trilogy, this has more exciting plots and made me want to know what happens next.
The beginning was fun, the middle bore and the ending page turner, with Cornwell’s writing style already established in the previous book i knew not to expect fantasy and magic.
The portrayal of religion and the importance and implication during the dark ages seem real and the way Cornwell uses it in the book is brilliant.
Powieść jest tak dobra, jak część pierwsza. Może i lepsza. Dynamiczna, emocjonująca, zaskakująca. Retelling legend arturiańskich w wykonaniu Cornwella jest równie dobry, jak "Mgły Avalonu" Marion Zimmer Bradley. Przedstawia wydarzenia z innej perspektywy: linia podziału biegnie między dobrymi poganami a złymi chrześcijanami (jeszcze sprzed saskiej ekspansji). Artur to światło, szlachetny poganin, ale Cornwell takich bohaterów nie oszczędza. Choć nie tak jak George R. R. Marcin swoich. Więcej tu realizmu niż magicznej bajkowości. Powieść gwarantuje doskonale spędzony czas. A nowe polskie wydanie jest bardzo ładne.
Some people grow, like Mordred, into tiny devils who are possessed by evil spirits (Merlin’s words not mine!) while some grow weaker because the Gods are even further away than before.Again I think it’s a good thing that Cornwell didn’t describe the tiniest of details about Derfel’s or Arthur’s life.
To be completely honest, through the first half of the book, I had to remind myself that this is part two of The Warlord Chronicles, putting extra stress on the word 'chronicles' to continue reading.
Unlike The Winter King, I found this book a bit less plot-oriented.
I don't want to give out actual spoilers because the second half of the book is as suspenseful as historical fiction can get, but I will say that it's now one of my favorites and even though the ending is not a cliffhanger, I find myself eager to read the last part in this trilogy ASAP.
Amazing is all I can say to describe it!!!In the first book, Merkin was shown to be a kind of mischievous, cruel (positively) and selfish old man.
Here you see the true Merlin.Arthur, a great man.
And truly good man.
Arthur did not expect things to happen.Now after reading the whole book, I am unable to comment on the begining parts of book two.I'll write a proper review when I re-read it.
I must say, Bernard's put alot of research and a very good imagination.FIVE STARS....
10 stars for this book!!!!!..Trust me, book 3 is even more awesome!!

Cornwell często nazywany jest mistrzem powieści historycznej i w pełni się z tą opinią zgadzam. Nieprzyjaciel Boga to fascynująca opowieść, od której nie tylko nie oderwiecie się do ostatniej strony, ale z zupełnie nowym nastawieniem spojrzycie na znaną z dzieciństwa legendę.Cała opinia:http://www.kacikzksiazka.pl/2017/10/n...
I loved this second installment of the series, and was wishing I had dedicated more consistent time to reading it. Action packed throughout, this one might even be better than the Winter King. Loved the different take on these classic tales - not exactly what you would expect from your typical Arthur tales.
I don't understand my ratings anymore. Maybe the Uhtred books should have been 5 stars, 3 doesn't seem enough for this one. I enjoyed it, took me a while to get back into the story though. Definitely appreciated the story more after having read the Uhtred booos and the first book. So maybe 3.5 stars. Ah hell just give it 4.
