https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92057.The_Autobiography_of_Malcolm_X
It made me think for the umpteenth time just how can society malign and vilify black people, especially black men, when society itself is responsible for restricting them in the first place?Among the many things I admired about Malcolm X was his thirst for knowledge.
I always thought I would adhere more closely to Dr. King’s peaceful, nonviolence philosophy, but after reading this book I do agree with Malcolm X’s ideology as well.
Cornel West says that one of the deepest fears for black America is that Malcolm X was fundamentally right, that the political system here is incapable of being changed through traditional means in order to serve the black community what they are due.
self-actualization, in whatever form that may take, answers Malcolm.
I'm another middle class white boy in the U.S. who has absorbed from a young age dramatic pictures of black culture - mostly negative - that don't so much reflect the culture so much as reflect the fears imposed on it by the elite.
Malcolm X, along with Molefi Asante, Cornel West, Ishmael Reed, Zora Neal Hurston, James Baldwin, Toni Morrison...
عاهدتُ الله ألا أنسى أن الإسلام هو الذي أعطاني الأجنحة التى أحلِّق بها اليوم،ولم أنس ذلك أبدًا..لم أنسه لحظة واحدة.مالكوم إكس حاولتُ أن أكتب عنه فلم أعرف..فقط شهدتُ بعيني كيف يرفع الإسلام بهَديْهِ المرء من أسفل سافلين إلى إنسانٍ تتفتح أمام وجهه الآفاق,وتجوب شهرته البلدان,ويضع الله له القبول والحب في الأرض..كيف يعيش رجل،لم يترك كبيرة ولا صغيرة من الذنب إلا وارتكبها،مناضلًا لأجل الإسلام..ثم يموت شهيدًا وهو يدافع عنه ويدعو الناس إليه في النهاية!رأيتُ كيف يعز الله بالإسلام..ولكننا نرتضي العزة فيما

When Malcolm entered prison, it was only because the situation created by the white man lead him to the cell.
Malcolm hated the white man.
As he once said:“So early in my life, I had learned that if you want something, you had better make some noise.”He needed the white man to know why he hated him.
The wasted potential of X Malcolm X did wonders for black pride in America; he did wonders for the civil rights movement despite his hatred, but the true tragedy is we will never know how much more he could have done.
The amazing thing, though, is that while the very book was being written, Malcolm X is undergoing a personal transformation that is leading him away from anger and hatred towards white people and towards a realization that it is the culture in America, and not inherent evil in white people, that creates the racism he's fighting against.
At the same time, he was spreading the word of Fard through the Messenger Elijah Muhammad, who included a history of Islam that included one man breaking off to form the white race out of the seeds of the black and brown race as a form of revenge against Allah.
A masterpiece! The Autobiography of Malcolm X may be the most important autobiography ever written. I don't have the proper vocabulary to do this book its proper justice.A must read! African American Historical Fiction BookclubThe Book Bum BookclubPopsugar Reading Challenge: A book involving a heist Ultimate Summer Reading Challenge: Read a book that features a father.
“If Malcolm X were not a Negro, his autobiography would be little more than a journal of abnormal psychology, the story of a burglar, dope pusher, addict and jailbird—with a family history of insanity—who acquires messianic delusions and sets forth to preach an upside-down religion of ‘brotherly’ hatred.”-Saturday Evening Post, Sept. 12, 1965 Sensationalist, yes? Reminiscent of certain responses to Twelve Years a Slave winning multiple Academy Awards at this year's Oscars, and this is nearly fi
This is important to consider when imbibing any text, but here, in context with racism, in context with classism, in context with the institutional ideologies' demand that all resistance be nonviolent while weighing it down with "sign of the times" murder, rampant lynching then and shotgunning teenagers now for reasons of "too loud music", in context with the autobiography of Malcolm X, ask yourself if a criminal record puts you off reading about a person, and then ask yourself why.Ask yourself what constitutes the "abnormal psychology", the "messianic delusions", the "upside-down religion of 'brotherly hatred'", the CEO, the politician, any belief that preaches intolerance for the non-believer.
I love this book Alhamdulillah.
I feel Malcolm X had less recognition compared to famous people like Martin Luther King or Abraham Lincoln or JFK.
people don't respect Malcolm X equal as Martin Luther King or Abraham Lincoln or Barack Obama or JFK.I think there are two reasons that people don't respect Malcolm X.
Firstly, could be because of Islam and secondly, could be because Malcolm X believed black people should fight White people for freedom.'The Autobiography of Malcolm X' is one of the books that I wouldn't forget and this book is one of the books that I would read again in the future.
Inshallah.I love this book but I do have a favourite chapter.
I'm in such awe of this book and the man behind it that I don't think I can really give it a fair review.
I came late to Malcolm X - I didn't pick up his autobiography until I was twenty-five, during my third year teaching in the Bronx.
For everyone who thinks of Malcolm X only as violent and hating white people, you need to read this book; he was much more aggressive and uncompromising than Martin Luther King, but he was equally beautiful and inspiring.
أكتب مراجعتي فور انتهائي من قراءة الكتاب وإتباعه بمشاهدة الفيلم الوثائقي الذي أعدته الجزيرة عن هذه ا
"This book I dedicate to my beloved wife Betty and to our children whose understanding and whose sacrifices made it possible for me to do my work." Malcolm's dedication of the book.Note: I will often refer to Malcolm X in the following as simply “X”.the edition I readBesides the first person narration, this edition contains a Foreword by Malcolm’s eldest daughter, Attallah Shabazz; an Introduction by M.S. Handler, a NYT reporter whom Malcolm X reportedly believed had "none of the usual prejudi
For with the passage of time, Afro-Americans who “wished they were white” (as Malcolm used to say) seemed to come around – as did many whites who in the early sixties seemed terrified of the views of Malcom X (though probably, it must be said, not knowing or understanding very much about them).In fact, some of this may have started almost as soon as the book here reviewed was published, the year after his death.
من العظيم جداً ليس فقط أن تتبع مسيرة شخص كملكوم إكس من مولده حتى وفاته من المهم أن ندرك أنه ثمة مفاه
Nobody can give you freedom. Nobody can give you equality or justice or anything. If you're a man take itمن أروع المذكرات التى قرأتها في حياتي مذكرات مالكوم اكس او الحاج مالك الشباز .كيف كان مفكر وقائدا ومدافع عن حقوق السود وفاضحا للممارسات العنصرية لدي البيض وتاريخهم الدموي  وفى نفس الوقت باحث عن الحقيقة لم يتوقف يوما عند رأي ثابت .. غير رأيه وحياته بالكامل عندما دخل السجن وخرج منه مؤمنا بالاسلام ولكن عن طريق الأليجا محمد وبعد اثنا عشر عاما معه وبعد ذهابه للحج عرف الاسلام على الحق , وعرف أن
Nobody can give you freedom.
If you're a man take itمن أروع المذكرات التى قرأتها في حياتي مذكرات مالكوم اكس او الحاج مالك الشباز .كيف كان مفكر وقائدا ومدافع عن حقوق السود وفاضحا للممارسات العنصرية لدي البيض وتاريخهم الدموي  وفى نفس الوقت باحث عن الحقيقة لم يتوقف يوما عند رأي ثابت ..
Fantastic read! a look into the courageous life of a true believer of life's struggles in racism etc...(paperback!)
Early in the trip lady across from me asked what I was reading--I think she knew and just wanted to see my reaction to her asking.
I told her and we got into an amazing conversation about race in America, Islam and the ignorance of people who have grown up in the majority.
From his trip to Mecca to his tours of Africa and his work to bring Islam to America, vitally linked with his newly moderate racial stance, I think a lot of the stupid fears about "Why Do They Hate Us" would have been dealt with long before 9/11.What would Malcolm X's effect on the Women's Liberation Movement have been?
مالكوم إكس أو الحاج مالك الشباز -رحمه اللهمالكوم أمريكي أفريقي عاصر فترة من أهم فترات التمييز العنصري ضد السود في الوﻻيات المتحدة إبان فترة الخمسينياتحياته و سيرته حكاية تروي و تدرس .. مر بمنعطفات عجيبة في حياته في طفولته .. تم قتل والده على يد مجموعة من العنصريين البيض .. و والدته تم إيداعها مستشفى الأمراض العقلية بقرار ظالم، و تم إيداع مالكوم في دار للرعاية! في بداية شبابه فعل ما ﻻ يخطر على بال .. خمر و قمار و مخدرات و قوادة و السرقة و السطو المسلح و غيرها ... و طبعا النتيجة كانت دخوله السجن
مالكوم إكس أو الحاج مالك الشباز -رحمه اللهمالكوم أمريكي أفريقي عاصر فترة من أهم فترات التمييز العنصري ضد السود في الوﻻيات المتحدة إبان فترة الخمسينياتحياته و سيرته حكاية تروي و تدرس ..
أهم ما فيها هو دفاعه عن حقوق السود في أمريكا بشجاعة و بسالة منقطعة النظير ..لكن ذلك كان من خﻻل جماعة اسمها " أمة الإسلام": الجماعة دي هي اللي عرف من خﻻلها كلمة " إسلام" ..
و أرسل نبي اسمه " إليجا محمد"!!عاش مالكوم فترة مع جماعة أمة الإسلام بمفهوم أن الإسلام هو دين السود!!
تغيرت بعدها بعض من آرائه بحاصة فيما يتعلق بشيطنة كل البيض و معنى الإسلام الحقيقي، و بالطبع سبب ذلك له صدام مع جماعة أمة الإسلام ..
، او من اللى اتعرضّت لتاريخ مزيكا البلوز و روادها من السود في الفترة دي بالذات ايضا ، خصوصا مع حكاياته الكتيرة عن المزيكا و الفرق الموسيقية و صداقته بالفنانين و تناوله للجو دا عموما في سرده ، و دا طبعا بالمناسبة معناه ان رؤيته و كتاباته تركت انطباع و تأثير على النوعية دي من الافلام حاليا موش العكس طبعا) و دا كان شئ رائع جدا، بعدها و في الفصل العاشر لمّا ابتدى يتطرق لموضوع (أمة الإسلام) و يتكلم عن إلايجا محمد اللي راح لهم امريكا و اللي كانوا بيسموه (رسول الله) صدمت و ذهلت من كمية الهذي الديني اللي تم نسبه إلى الإسلام  خصوصا و ان الكتاب من أكثر الكتب تأثيرا و رواجا و شهرة بين ابناء التيار الإسلامي ،، لمّا تعرض لأسطورة بدء الخليقة بالذات ، التي آمنت بها تلك الجماعة ، و اللي بتقول بإنشقاق الأرض عن القمر ، اللي خلّفه وجود كائنات بشرية سوداء ، هي اللي بنت مكة المكرمة ..:) I felt like انهم يدعون الى دين جديد يا ابن ابي حنظلة :))) و وقفت عندها كتير حقيقي ..
Malcolm X went to Mecca, and when he returned he was a changed man for he had been told that the Nation of Islam didn't teach the true Muslim faith, for the true Muslim faith loved all races.When he was in Makkah, he wrote a letter to his loyal assistants in Harlem: "Never have I witnessed such sincere hospitality and overwhelming spirit of true brotherhood as is practiced by people of all colors and races here in this ancient Holy Land, the home of Abraham, Muhammad and all the other Prophets of the Holy Scriptures.
After dropping out of school, Malcolm X moved to Boston to live with his sister Ella, where he got acquainted with the city’s criminal underground, ultimately falling into a life of crime.
Having forgotten much of his elementary education by the time he found himself in prison, Malcolm first focused on self-education, initially by way of reading, writing and memorizing the dictionary.
Going from a promising student in his early years, to a dropout and full time hustler, prison forced Malcolm to reexamine his life.
Several years ago I decided to make the reading of The Autobiography of Malcolm X mandatory for my high school Honor's English students (I had read the book when it was first released).
My decision to "teach Malcolm X" was not looked upon well by the administration, but after thorough student led discussions and tying the story to their personal journey, the book was relished, applauded and appreciated by the students and their parents.
I still hold this book in highest regard and rank it as one of the greatest stories ever told.
I will not attempt to add my two cents to the five decades of commentary that currently exist. But I will say this, when Malcolm says of Elijah Muhammad, "My black brothers and sisters, you have come from your homes to hear-now you are going to hear-America's wisest black man! America's boldest black man! America's most fearless black man." I uttered an audible - No. It was you, Malcolm. It was you.
رغم قصر حياته، إلا أنه ترك أثراً لا ينسى في التاريخ الأمركي سواء كمناضل ضد التمييز العرقي، او كشخصية أنسانية أستطاعت ان تشق طريقها من حياة الإجرام و السجن إلي اليقين و التضحية بالذات من أجل الآخرين
As I think about the Autobiography, I'm impressed by the book as an incredible testament to one man's intelligence, eloquence, and passion.
At one level, the Autobiography is an excellent literary example of Newton's Third Law. Not only do we see Malcolm himself reacting to his society, we see his progression as a part of the development of African-American literature.
In Malcolm we have a man who is not afraid to continue growing, to develop intellectually, spiritually, emotionally.
I understand why rap culture stresses "hustling" so much.
It's as if rappers just never finished the book.
It's not as awesome an autobiography as Gandhi's but better than most any other bio you'll find.
Usually biographies are just dry chronicles of some rich asshole's favorite color and addiction du jour.
I am thoroughly convinced that he should share an equal place in the canon of great Americans with equal respect and prestige as George Washington.
Also, there are some interesting comments about the relationship(s) between men and women.Note: there are some discrepancies between this text and Spike Lee's film version.
There are only a handful of books you can read in a lifetime that have a tangible impact on you.
My dad reccomended this to me when I was 15, as I searched for something interesting in between the lawyer, doctor, monster New York Times bestsellers I'd read compulsively.
How books have the potential to provide knowledge that is closer to a true understanding on any subject then anything a formal education offers.
How this knowledge can be far more useful, interesting and entertaining then the formulaic melodramas I had been hooked on.
That's why I took time to write this review, and actually I'm not revealing too much of what I felt and what I think cause it really touched me.
It started with Alex Haley's foreword: I felt angry, sad, moved, deeply moved and really, really angry, furious!
I couldn't believe what I was reading actually!
I only felt relief while reading the chapter entitled Mecca, when Malcom X was doing his pilgrimage and understood what Islam is and who Muslims are.
It revealed me that actually what I know is that I know nothing!
إنني لم أفض لأحد قبل اليوم بتفاصيل هذا الماضي [الدنيء]، وأنا لا أفعل ذلك اليوم من باب الإعتزاز ولكن لإسكات التأويلات التي تذهب في كل اتجاه حول الدوافع التي جعلتني أتخذ الموقف الذي أتخذه اليوم، ولأنني أعتقد أن هذه الدوافع يحب البحث عنها في كل صغيرة وكبيرة في حياتنا منذ يوم ولادتنا لأن تجاربنا هي التي تكون شخصيتنا.
إنني لم أكن لأضيع ساعة واحدة على هذا الكتاب لو لم أكن مقتنعا بأنها الوسيلة الناجعة الوحيدة لإبلاغ ما أريد إبلاغه:[لقد كنت أسفل سافلين في قاع المجتمع الأمريكي عندنا اهتديت إلى الله وإلى الإسلام فتغير مجرى حياتي!]" .09:2103/05/3017-
سيرة استثنائية لشخص استثنائي

