https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356373.Experiencing_God
I had no God previously since 1976; and I was introduced to Nichiren Shoshu Buddhism that came in after Gautama Siddhartha Buddhism which came down from the Primal Buddhism which there are no ancient writings just artifacts.
There is no god in Nichiren Shoshu.
Fulfilling worldly desires that brings enlightenment, which can be achieved in a life time.
He will lead you (provided you are doing the other things in the book...)Where others say, "the Lord helps those who help themselves," Blackaby answers that God often does nothing until His people can "cease striving" and rest in Him.I have never read a better explanation for the way God speaks, including how to know His voice, and the various media through which he speaks (whether scripture, other Christians, circumstances, or the Church).
The workbook is probably better because it is so engaging.
But so many people will not buy or really use a workbook, so the book version will reach a lot of people.
Despite this, my thoughts on the book are mixed.The point of the book is to find ways to experience God. In particular to see where God is working, and to be involved in His work.
Not that it isn't good to have testimonials, but the frequency of such examples, with few examples that don't involve the book or Blackaby himself, started to rub me the wrong way.The second problem I had with the book, was that it gave a lopsided view of how God may speak to you.
So while I thought it was solid on its principles, the tone of the book and the examples it gave slightly diminished its value in my eyes.
Blackaby covers all the different ways we can experience God and how important it is to pay attention to each of these.
The book discusses different ways that God can speak to his people and how each of us can experience Him as couples, in our children's lives, in the church, marketplace, and His kingdom.
But if you can get past some of that there is good ideas to grasp onto and new ways to look at convening with God. Blackaby does a wonderful job at making sure the reader understands that this whole following God thing is not easy and that you will run into hardship and obstacles as you try to follow His will for your life.
To hear the flaw in theology, you can listen to Stand to Reason's podcast episode from 04/21/2013 ( http://www.strcast2.org/podcast/weekl...) and listen to the segment from 1:03:00 to 1:18:30.
However, due to the flawed theological premise, it could lead to long-term disillusionment, frustration, and unfounded fear and doubt for believers who have been told through the book that if they're not hearing from God that there is something wrong with their Christian walk.
For a far better guide to good Christian living that can be used as a study, I would recommend Decision Making and the Will of God by Garry Friesen.
http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56...
This book is filled with both good and bad theology.
Unfortunately the bad theology is enough to cause the reader to be misled by the major theme of the book: how to find God's will?
This makes the entire book built on a faulty interpretation of an important passage that is about the trinitarian nature of God and not about how the Christian finds God's will.
Most Christians will not agree with my take on this book because Blackaby's work is so popular and so many Christians have gone through an "Experiencing God" seminar.
How can such a popular book be so wrong?
This is a GREAT Study. It is very intense and hard core. It will literaly grip you and make you want to put it down because there is no way to get through it without being changed by it. If you are seriously committed to hearing what God wants you to do or what He is trying to tell you, then I highly recommend it. If you are struggling with your committment, i still recommend it, but you will be faced abbruptly with "His Will".
Blackaby promises that believers today can hear the voice of God the way people did throughout the Bible, ex.
Instead the epistles are full of exhortations to follow the commands of Christ which are clearly known to anyone who has access to the written Gospels.Blackaby says that, just like in the Old Testament, when God speaks today we will clearly know it is God. This will be because we have such a deep relationship with God. I fear that as people do not clearly hear God’s voice to them, they will become depressed thinking it is their own fault because they are not devoted enough.
As I participated in a group study on Henry Blackaby’s book: Experiencing God, I not only discovered some great insights (like the value of focusing on being Christ-centered verses self-centered, the power of the Holy Spirit, and the importance of fellowship, prayer, and God’s Word), but I have also found some areas of concern in the author’s methodology and philosophy.
More importantly, only by following Christ as our example can we please God, and I believe that the only way to know how to be like Him is through careful (and prayerful) Bible study.Unfortunately, several of the author’s extra-biblical personal examples suggest that unless your goal or task is truly God-sized, it may not be what God wants you to be doing.
This was a wonderful devotional--the best I've ever used. Henry Blackaby skillfully guides you through selected Scriptures and reflection questions to a deeper understanding of God, His word, and your faith in Him. I read this a long time ago--I actually want to get another copy of the workbook now, years later, and go through it all over again. Who can't use a little help with their spiritual walk?
This particular book offers readers a course on experiencing God, and it is meant to be taken with a small group as part of a congregation.
It can be said that the authors wish to deal with the subject of experiencing God through Bible study and obedience and are decidedly anti-mystical in their approach [1].
This book list seven things to go with the study beginning with how God is always at work around us, how He desires a love relationship with us that is real and personal, how important and crucial it is to the Christian walk to obey Him. I didn't agree with everything in this book.
If you ever decide to read this amazing study, I strongly encourage that you do!
Coming away from it, I can honestly say that I feel like I have a deeper relationship with God and not only that, but I have gained a whole new perspective on Him as my Lord and Sovereign King.
Concepts in this book have reshaped my thinking on spiritual gifts, God’s direction in my life, and how I hear from Him. Highly recommend this book for any follower of Christ.
I mean, I am a Bible believing, Gospel teaching, praying, hands up worshiping, church going, holy spirit filled, child of the King, Jesus praising, woman of God who has gained much wisdom - saved by God's grace - and humblingly receiving mercy on a continual basis for I am a sinful human being.Having said that, what I got from Experiencing God Bible Study, is we don't matter one iota to God except that we bring others to Christ through our works.
It seeks to answer the question, 'What is the will of God, and how do I do it?' Blackaby's answer is that knowing God's will comes out of a deep relationship with God. Through trust, obedience, and committing ourselves to God's path, we can experience God and complete his purposes for us.
I found the book really inspiring and it helped me to draw closer to God as I read it.
There is plenty of practical examples which inspire and inform.
A great book.
If you've ever wondered what a 'personal relationship' with God is all about, read it.
Can Lead Christians to Experience God But Can Also Lead Them Astray “Experiencing God” by Henry Blackaby and Claude King (and now also Richard Blackaby) seems to be a book for which reviewers find no middle ground.
Almost all of the reviewers on Amazon give the book 5 stars (with one 4 star book) and one 1 star review.
I find that the book has the potential to lead many to a deeper, more meaningful experience with God but also has the potential to lead many into false views of how God works with His people today.
For my complete review, see http://www.giveusthisdaydevotional.co...
Other than the Bible itself, which always always always has primacy as God's word to humanity, this book has helped me the most in connecting with God in an intimate and personal relationship. God's plan and purpose to be a personal God and friend to each and everyone is clearly expressed in the Bible, but Blackaby has done a wonderful job of making contemporary applications to help people find that connection. Also he has given a wonderful rule of thumb for that relationship: Find where God is at work and join him there. Highly Recommended.
I have tried numerous times to get through this workbook, and I have just been unable to.
I find myself skimming the pages just to hurry and finish the days worth of information.
I'm unable to put my finger on WHY.
In most (although not all) instances I don't really disagree with what Blackaby is saying.
Yet, I just can't get anything out of the study.
No joy, no insight, no pull or enlightenment.
Perhaps, it's just the workbook form that I dislike.
Maybe I'll pick it back up and love it at some time in the future.
Life Changing. Words cannot describe how this workbook and the 12 week Bible study have impacted my life, and the lives of the people I studied it with. It takes commitment to get the true benefit, but is well worth the effort. This is the type of study that must be lived and digested for awhile. There are levels to experiencing God, so you can definitely gain by repeating the study. I will do this again.
This is a great book, I would recommend this to all Christians. The most important part of the Christian walk is, "love relationship." God has a plan, purpose, ways for everyone, in fact, we must join him. It is his world, not mine, so I am merely a vehicle. Often times, I become selfish and say, What should I do, rather, What God wants me to do? Currently, Psalm 38:4 is on my heart, For my sins have flooded over my head;they are a burden too heavy for me to bear.Deus Vult, Gottfried
this is an excellent study i highly recommend it for everybody to take, for those who are seeking God's plan for their life challenges you to look at changing insight, practices that we are so used to in our comfort zones. this book study challenges us to get out of that comfort zone and go out and serve God where He needs us instead of of us coming up with a plan and asking God to bless what we think we should do for Him.
I never know if I should list things like this.. but I am because it was really huge. This was done in a time in which I had to think of God as huge in order to have hope. I loved reading story after story about how people's faith determined the magnitude of what God was able to do in their lives.Unfortunately, the last few weeks lost me, but the rest were pretty amazing.
Five stars, times 2. I read this as part of a study group in my church, and it truly had a great impact on my life. The author was so right, I really experienced God in ways that I hadn't before while reading this book. It really helped me in my walk with God. I recommend it for everyone who desires to walk closer with God.
This book/study is not perfect, but I found it to be what I needed this year. God used the straightforward truth of Blackaby's teaching and experience with God to speak into my life. I would definitely recommend this study for anyone serious about diving deeper.
Profound in my spiritual development. I'm still seeking to experience God daily. Obedience is the turning point for me. I have been through this in s small group study and individually. Transformational!
Though I cannot say I agreed with everything in this book I will say that this book was extremely helpful to me personally! Truly wonderful! It helped me understand my relationship with the Holy Spirit. I believe more baptist (laymen and ministers) need to read and learn from this book!
Thought-provoking examination of relating to God through the life of Abraham.(I read an earlier edition, but can't get it to take.)
Loving this book!!! Read three times so far!
There is so much to it, and I believe that this is one of those books that you can read and reread again and again and find unique information relevant to your life and various times.
There is an entire chapter devoted to seeing God’s work around you, and it held significant importance for me as I am about to embark on my career.Within the same chapter, Blackaby et al points out that just because you have a gifting in one area does not mean that God will not ever use you in another way (pg.
I agree with Blackaby's general premises, that we need to do a better job of listening to God through prayer and reading.
He seems to give the impression that only if we move into international business, large evangelism campaigns and full time paid ministry are we really following God. I don't read that in the Bible as being true.
I disagree that taking a teaching position is "the world's way" instead of "God's way".
I disagree that we can make the conclusion that facing challenges in life is evidence that we are out of step with God. It is likely that Blackaby has experienced God differently from the way I have and many others I have observed have.
