https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8716.Lincoln
The 13th Amendment to the Constitution declared that "Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their jurisdiction." Formally abolishing slavery in the United States, the 13th Amendment was passed by the Congress on January 31, 1865, and ratified by the states on December 6, 1865.In the immortal words of Joe Biden this was a “big f**king deal”. If you
The movie is based on the Doris Kearns Goodwin book Team of Rivals: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln, but I found whole dialogue scenes lifted from Gore Vidal's book.
William Seward who gave wise counsel to his rival during the war.Abraham Lincoln to maintain peace in his own party and to keep an eye on his enemies appointed his rivals to the cabinet.
General Joe Hooker the man who lent his name to prostitution.Lincoln had great hope for “Fighting Joe" Hooker and for a while it looked like he finally had a general that wanted to fight.
It's been said countless times in I don't know how many articles I've read or however many interviews I've seen that American Presidents always feel somewhat that they'll never "live up" to Lincoln or that they must "get right" with the legend of Abraham Lincoln in order to perform and/or carry out the duties of the office that they've sworn to uphold.So now we know just where I'm at in this vast wilderness of historical information.
I haven't read a historical novel yet this year and I have this new rediscovered fondness for President Lincoln.
Arguably the best historical fiction book every written beating out even notables like Shaara's Killer Angels. Hell this is probably one of the top 5 books on the Civil War period. (Along with Shelby Foote's epic three volume opus, McPherson's Battle Cry of Freedom, and the aforementioned Killer Angels)If you have the slightest interest in history, the Civil War, Lincoln or even just a beautifully constructed story of politics in a time of war read it. Meticulously researched and exquisitely put together this book is epic
Still, this is fiction and he says he did take some liberties.All of the principal characters really existed, and they said and did pretty much what I have them saying and doing, with the exception of the Surratts and David Herold (who really lived and worked at Thompson’s, which was actually closer to New York Avenue than to Pennsylvania Avenue.) As David’s life is largely unknown until Booth’s conspiracy, I have invented a low-life for him.
There are references by others that his humble life in Illinois may have been exaggerated for political reasons.
For example, no photograph of his Illinois mansion was allowed during the campaign.
We revere Lincoln, but I'll admit much was unknown to me.
Lincoln had but one reason for this war and that reason was not the abolition of slavery.
I really like how Vidal writes. I read half of this novel before I watched the Lincoln movie (not the vampire hunter one :D) and I was really impressed by the amount of research that went into this book. As someone who knows very little American history, I definitely gained a lot more knowledge after reading this book.It was a long read but worth it.
It is obvious that Gore read all he could get his hands on (in fact, in my youth I had often cast my eyes over the last days of Lincoln and the hanging of his assassins and conspirators so was familiar with the plot to kill him and his secretary of state).Gore has a sense of humor that appeals to me, and I found the descriptions of the deceptive generals (who wouldn't fight) and their put-on pomposity hilarious.
Until I'd read this book, I knew only that he was related to Jackie Kennedy Onassis and and Lee Radziwill and that he was a guest on many talk shows of the 70s & 80s where other well-known guests frequently found his opinions profoundly upsetting.
The book is as entertaining and enlightening a story as I have ever had the good fortune to read.
I came away with a living portrait of Lincoln, the man, and was astonished to learn of the miriad of seemingly insurmountable circumstances attendant to the ones we commonly know of his life and times.
Well, I loved the book.
He is portrayed as being a brilliant politician: persistent, both ruthless as well as humane, and pragmatic.We are introduced to him as the USA was in the process of becoming disunited and was plunging into a deadly civil war.
Not only was his country disunited, but also was his Republican party, many of whose senior members had little faith in his ability to win the Civil War. Yet, he pulled it off.
Portraits of "minor" characters -- John Hay (one of Lincoln's personal secretaries) and Kate Chase (daughter of Treasury secretary Salmon Chase) in particular -- are vivid and convincing, but I loved the book most for its glimpse of Washington, D.C. during the Civil War: the mud, the noise, the smell, the vulnerability to attack, the coziness, the charm, etc.
I take both sides, really, although I lean to Vidal: the cover of the book says "a novel," after all, a form equally available to all, or at least to all of the participants in the spitting match.
This was rollicking good read, and may even contain some historical truths about Abraham Lincoln and his fellow politicos duing the turbulent era of the Civil War. Vidal draws a vivid picture of 19th century Washington - a city built on a swamp, with rudimentary facilities, but with grand aspirations.
Washington is full of spies, brothels and disease and the work presents the United States as a young country not hugely unlike Ancient Rome, corrupt yet idealistic, and destined to expand militarily - the Civil War had built the largest military force on earth, and, possibly, hints Vidal, paved the road to eventual Empire.
Once again, I am amazed by the breadth and depth of Vidal's knowledge.
His seemingly encyclopedic grasp of the era is matched in equal parts by caustic wit and empathy.
Vidal's Lincoln is at once human and monolithic, and the pages are imbued with his curious melancholy.
(On a side note, one gets the feeling that Mark Ryden had read this book...)The supporting characters are equally interesting.
Mary Todd is nuanced and Vidal brilliantly tracks the evolution of Lincoln's relationship with his cigar chomping and ultimately lovable secretary of state, Seward.
But in the end it's Vidal's one liners that I love best.
This book also portrayed a more compassionate view of Mary Todd Lincoln.
It is so shocking that he is assassinated at the end of the war; but on a philosophical view, perhaps his role was to get us through this great conflagration and unite us into a country that more accurately reflects the Declaration of Independence that all men are created equal.
In light of recent events over the past year, we certainly need to visit those racial issues again and work toward the things Mr Lincoln strove for so courageously.
I'd like to give this book 5 stars for the extraordinary undertaking of thought and research that it represents, but the book, while very good, is weakened by its ambition and its reliance on dialog.I think Vidal developed insight into many of the players (Lincoln, Mary, Salmon Chase, Kate Chase, Sprague, Stanton, Seward, David, Hay...) and wanted to sketch a portrait of each one of them.
This detracted from his most interesting portrait, that of Lincoln.The characters are developed primarily through conversation, so much that it reads more like a script than a novel.
Conceptually, I have an issue with historical fiction, but it's so damn entertaining!
Gore Vidal does it better than anybody.
I've read Burr and Lincoln and both are excellent.
In Lincoln, Vidal doesn't deviate from the historical facts (at least per my wikopedia spot checks), but through dialogue he builds out the characters of Lincoln, Seward, Chase, and Grant in a manner that is completely believable, insightful, and, yeah, entertaining.
I won't be citing "Lincoln" as a source document, but after reading it, I feel like I have greater insight into Lincoln and the civil war.
This is not the easiest book to read.
But very much worth the read if you have any interest in the American Civil War or President Lincoln.
Like any good Historical novel worth it's salt, it's brilliantly researched.
A lot of the things said by Lincoln in the novel were in fact recorded speech from the great President.
What I love about this novel though is that you never quite know what is going through Lincoln's head.
All the point of views are from his wife, his secretary, his minister of treasury and his minister of war.
You will feel smarter after reading this novel.
I became obsessed with this book! Very rich. Wierd parallels with current happenings...
He seemed to be odd and not too bright, and people thought he was not in control.
She then had to do whatever she could to stave off the debtors, much of which was illegal or immoral.Even though I of course knew what was going to happen to him, (view spoiler)[He was assassinated, (hide spoiler)] there was still an air of suspense as the time approached, and a sense of the sadness and anger after the event.This book took me longer to finish than normal, but I think it was worth it.
Fortunately, I had audiobooks to listen to at the same time.
Gore Vidal's Lincoln is a good place to start looking for answers.While Vidal wrote mysteries, plays, and television scripts over a career that spanned six decades, he became best known for a series of historical novels about American history.
The book focuses almost exclusively on the sixteenth American presidency itself, beginning shortly before Lincoln's 1861 inauguration and ending at his assassination four years later.Though it was clearly well researched, Vidal was not writing a scholarly history.
After reading Team of Rivals, I have become obsessed with all things Lincoln Administration, and I began reading Vidal's novel the day before the great literary icon passed away.
I loved his Chase murmuring hymns to himself, his slightly debauched John Hay, and wish he had done more with Stanton.
I also found the ending of the book disappointing; I really didn't need John Hay in Paris speculating about plots involving Congress and Stanton and others.
I found myself bringing out Team of Rivals and buying Hay and Nicolay's biography/history of Lincoln to see how well things matched up.
The author himself, in an afterword, makes it known that, while he stayed true to historical pieces of information as much as possible, he has taken liberties as well.Okay, now that THAT is out of the way, the 2nd thing I want to write: if you are not a Lincoln devotee, a great lover of American history or a person who follows politics/U.S. Presidents, this book is probably going to sit on your nightstand, unfinished, for the rest of your life.I LOVE Lincoln, he is hands-down my favorite U.S. President, and he's one of my favorite human beings of all time.
"Lincoln" é uma obra-prima!Gore Vidal nesta obra monumental traz mais um contributo fundamental no s
A Novel Of Abraham LincolnIn his 1984 historical novel "Lincoln", Gore Vidal has written with great insight about our sixteenth president, his cabinet, his family, his enemies, and the Civil War Era. Lengthy though the book is, the writing is crisp and eloquent.
The book moves carefully and slowly, with a great deal of attention given, and properly so, to the earlier period of Lincoln's presidency.
Vidal shows Lincoln choosing a cabinet from among his political rivals for the presidency, as well as from loyalist democrats, in order to be all-inclusive in the war effort.
Saw a Goodreads' Reviewer mention of the NYTimes controversial review of Vidal's Lincoln ... remembered my pleasure while engaged by the book, my favorite Vidalian.http://www.nytimes.com/1984/06/03/boo...Quote from the NYT review : "The portrait is reasoned, judicious, straightforward and utterly convincing, less dramatic, perhaps, than the inspired portrait of Aaron Burr in Mr. Vidal's ''Burr,'' but even more compelling. In his ongoing chronicle of American ..."
I read my brother's copy of this book while visiting him, his wife and his daughter up at their home in Sawyer, Michigan during the Christmas holidays, reading it as a bedtime book. Vidal's Lincoln, like his Burr and some of his other novels is reminiscent of Bob Woodward's instant histories. Both appear to produce well-researched reconstructions of history. Both appear to invent plausible conversations.
I read this years before I joined Goodreads. I've always been and fan of Lincoln and so I tried and enjoyed this book. So long ago however, I do not recall specific details.Ifyou are a fan of Gore Vidal, it is up to his usual standards.
✭✭✭✭½
Really, this book is a 4.7...
Along with "Team of Rival" and the movie 'Lincoln' this is truly the most interesting and entertaining Lincoln novel I have read.
Gone is the stereotypical self-educated, rail splitter who was born in a log cabin he helped his father build, replaced by an adroit, take-no-prisoners political creature, capable of doing the right things in the most efficient (yet sometimes illegal) ways...Vidal has created personalities out of historical characters, from the very young personal secretaries, John Hay and John Nicolay (who both went on to have long successful careers in government) to the more familiar William Seward and Salmon Chase...I can really believe that I am listening to these men as they would have been.And what of poor Katie and Hellcat...what a pair of characters right out of history.Good to great book...
This novel is easily one of the best books I have read about Lincoln. Gore Vidal does a great job of making Lincoln seem so real and attainable. So many books about Lincoln argue what a great and compelling person he was. This book fleshes out his greatness in ways other books have not. When reading this book, you see Lincoln's humanity along with his faults. Like all great men, Lincoln was not perfect; but he arose to the occasion and we all should be grateful for his humor, kindness, humanity and strength.
Gore Vidal wrote a masterpiece. A tremendous book about a tremendous man!
Lincoln, in some mysterious fashion, had willed his own murder as a form of atonement for the great and terrible thing that he had done by giving so bloody and absolute a rebirth to his nation.
