https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1121924.Brazilian_Adventure
After enjoying it immensely myself, I suggest this book by Peter Fleming--relating a similar but comically unsuccessful expedition to Brazil--has influenced many more subsequent works of fiction and cinema than one might realize.
One can see a clear facsimile of parts of this tale, represented in Evelyn Waugh's tragi-comedy.
Waugh and every other Englander was certainly aware of this expedition in the 1930s.
There's only two years gap between the two works; with Waugh's novel coming afterward.
Fleming is witty as always, and there are so many funny characters, not the least of which is Fleming's nemesis Major Pingle (not his real name) who is the nominal head of their expedition, but ends up an enemy.
The final section, in which Fleming's tiny group tries to outrace Pingle's to the ship that will carry them back to England, is tense and exciting as well as very funny.Fleming's casual racism--totally a product of his time--is again on display, but once again he turns out to be more of a classist than a racist, respectful of certain native tribes and scathing in his condemnation of many white Brazilians.
Peter Fleming, brother of Ian, was quite an accomplished a writer himself -- though here he writes for mostly comic effect chronicling an ill-fated 1932 expedition to South America in search of a missing explorer, one Colonel Percy Fawcett (who, I might add, is worth pursuing in and of himself purely for reasons of improbability and absurdity...
see my review of Exploration Fawcett for details).Fleming answers an advertisement in The Times and soon finds himself among a rag-tag group of adventurers, some more up to the challenges of the Brazilian wilderness than others.
If you fancy reading a tale of how six such young chaps sailed off to Brazil in 1932 to search the central plateau forests and rivers for any clue as to what happened to Col. Fawcett (who had disappeared seven years before), then this is definitely your book.
You read this book because you want to know how it all went, how they met friendly Indians, saw piranhas, heard jaguars, hacked through the undergrowth, and got messed around by various scurvy chaps of different nationalities, but returned to England to tell their tales.
The amusing tale of a poorly organised, and poorly carried out adventure into the interior of Brazil, ostensibly to search for Percy Fawcett, who was at the time missing for seven years.Fleming is very straight up at the beginning of the book - it is his story of his adventure, not a botany lesson, a geography lesson or a lesson in Brazilian native culture.
The sling was also tied on with string, and an important part of the mechanism in the breech fell out at intervals, for no good reason.
It was in many ways an admirable weapon; but its value to us was lessened by our inability to hit anything with it.1 rifle and 10 rounds [0.44].
This one is pretty excellent.Fleming's personal character permeates this particular view of early-20th-century Brazil. He's got a cleverly critical opinion of just about every one and every thing to cross his path, and his talent for comical-- and unintentional-- understatement is not to be laughed at. He makes the trip sound like a jolly sort of hop through the woods, and by the end I was wondering to what extent he was being 'more truthful' than other writers, as he claimed, or if he was simply using his powerful gift of understatement.Fascinating, anyway. Read it.
E' stato interessante leggere della prima avventura dell'eroe di Fleming nelle vesti del fratello maggiore. Interessanti le descrizioni dei luoghi e delle persone incontrate che non tradiscono lo spirito "snob" del gentiluomo inglese. Il racconto e' un po' lento, a tratti noioso nella prima parte del libro. Piu' avvincente nella parte finale dove l'avventura diventa sfida e si intravede il rientro in patria.
From the first page, he punctures any romantic imaginings the reader may have about such travel.Indeed, the most significant obstacle turns out to be the expedition leader himself, Major Pingle (not his real name), who – after a falling-out with Fleming’s party – proceeds to try and sabotage Fleming’s passage out of interior Brazil.Not only was Fleming’s tale the type of book I generally enjoy, but I absolutely loved his witty writing style.
Where that sort of thing can happen to them, there is a place for sky-scrapers."The book was published in 1933, so there were a few cringe-worthy “of its time” moments; I was particularly appalled by the huge amount of animals killed for sport during the trip.
Brazil is a democratic country in more than name, and all these men thought that they were as good as we were, if not better ....This theory did not command very general acceptance.
[Good grief.]"Members of the Brazilian crew get smashed.
Things settle.I suppose in 1933, Fleming was going for something different, perhaps modern by taking an ironic tack to his Brazilian adventure.
However, as the above quotations show, I see him in this book as an old fashioned, racist, class conscious Brit.
There is a world to see in books, and I prefer someone other than Fleming to be my guide.
I loved this entire book. There may have been a slow part, but if so I don't remember it. Insane hijinx travelling into one of the deeply unexplored regions of Brazil (in the 1930's). He makes light of both the mundane and the ridiculous, and returns home hardly changed (apparently) by the adventure of a lifetime.
A treasury of throw-away observations that reveal the core of the country. e.g. (from memory) "Rockets are to Brazil what exclamation marks are to the prose of a debutante". (!)
This book hovers on the edge of first rate because it has so many fine qualities that are somehow never completely developed: verbal British humor of the  Three Men in a Boat sort (one chapter is even called Eleven Men in a Boat); character sketches of inhabitants of the remote that rival Conrad; an acute view of the focus and freedom that comes with peril and hardship; keen observation of animal (but sadly not plant) life in an exotic region. Problematically, none of these are ever long enough
This book hovers on the edge of first rate because it has so many fine qualities that are somehow never completely developed: verbal British humor of the  Three Men in a Boat sort (one chapter is even called ´Eleven Men in a Boat´); character sketches of inhabitants of the remote that rival Conrad; an acute view of the focus and freedom that comes with peril and hardship; keen observation of animal (but sadly not plant) life in an exotic region.
Poor little thing,I knew from the first it was doomed.¨ And the peace that comes with acceptance -- their boat is out of control in a rapid: ¨How comforting is the knowledge that you must trust to luck -- that it is not in our power to lessen the margin of risk!
Ok, I have to confess that I have not actually finished this book but am now abandoning it.
I know that it has been rated as one of the finest travel novels of the last century but I am afraid that I struggled with both the style of the narration and the unreliability of the narrator.
His reference to emus in Brazil, and the unnecessary shooting of an iguana made me actively dislike the narrator, who seemed to be just one of a pack of spoilt public school boys off on a jolly adventure.
Peter Fleming is a fantastic writer who takes you vividly right there along with him on his travels. This book was fascinating, self-deprecating and humorous. Of course, Fleming is a man of his times, full of the spirit of colonial adventure with a horrifying penchant for sport hunting. It's a peak into a wrinkle in time from someone who lived an extraordinary life.
A visit to my dentist with a good dose of laughing gas is more adventurous than this!
As a young literary journalist in London in the 1930s, Peter Fleming (older brother of the James Bond creator, Ian) is an unlikely moving force at the centre of an expedition into the Brazilian jungle.
Best of all, he creates some hilarious set pieces, mostly from awkward encounters between Englishmen and Brazilians.The expedition was trying to find out what had happened to another English explorer, a Colonel Fawcett who had disappeared without trace in the region seven years earlier.
Fawcett was little more than an excuse for an adventure.Fleming is at his best undermining the literary and cultural traditions of travel writing.
A very funny account of what must at times have been a scary and unpleasant adventure, by Ian Fleming's big bro. Successfully takes the mickey out of Boy's Own Paper-style accounts, confessing early on that 'the dangers which we ran were considerably less than those to be encountered on any arterial road during a heat wave'. Also some wonderful, evocative descriptions of wildlife amongst all the self-deprecating cynicism.
A Quixotic quest to find an enigmatic explorer in the heart of the Amazon, with an efficient guide who doesn't want to help and a team of adventurers seemingly looking for different outcomes.Beautifully written with lyrical descriptions of the river life, jungle hardship and local cultures, this is a great read (although the paperback version I read had the smallest typeface I have come across recently - which made reading it a challenge in itself).Anyone with a taste for adventure, travel and mystery will enjoy this book.
What makes this true tale even more amazing is that the author is not an experienced explorer or a scientist, but a young man who signed on for this expedition solely for the adventure of it.
The purpose of the journey was to locate the whereabouts or to find out what became of Colonel Fawcett, who had set out years before to search for a fabled city.
I found this book from reading a Land Rover magazine.
Thought it might be interesting to read Peter Fleming's account of his adventure long ago.
I am amazed at the early adventures and what they had to endure.
It made wish I could be brave enough and young enough again, to experience the world like that.
But when I go somewhere remote with no cell phone or internet or busy cars, I like to pretend I'm in a world no one has seen before.
I like that the world is so big that there will always be a new place to see and visit.
I read a much older edition of this book, which was originally published in the 1930s.Peter Fleming was a brother of the better known Ian Fleming, the creator of James Bond ( Agent 007: Licenced to k...).
He was also an author, less wellknown than Ian, but his real life was at least as adventurous as James Bond's fictional one.Brazilian Adventure is an amusing account of an expedition to Brazil that included the author.
As far as I can remember the aim of the expedition was to discover the fate of Colonel Percy Fawcett, eho had set of for Brazil to discover a 'lost city'.
I really enjoyed this book.
Although he effectively shows the rigors of jungle travel, I was not overwhelmed with thoughts of bugs, physical exhaustion and starvation although he gave a good sketch.
I was appalled that they killed a hundred boring alligators if they were not planning to eat them or take them back to a worthy museum?
It is not surprising that Pingle would assume these fearless explorers would be happy for a shooting expedition.
Many have criticized his racism but his willingness to share it gives a fuller dimension to upper class British gentlemen.
When the natives deserve credit, he says it.
Really wish i could finish this.
But unfortunately other reads call my attention.
This is a book best read if you have a series of lazy days to idle in and indulge in a olden day British exploration into the unknown mystery that Brazil still was at that point.
This is one of the many books written about the strange disappearance of the Colonel Faucett.
Since there was another book written just a couple of years ago about him, i'm guessing that the guys in this book never found him.
And the old world charm of this book is definitely appealing.
An interesting and occasionally amusing tour through the interior of Brazil during the 1930s. Written in true British form, the humor is understated, and wry, which is always enjoyable. However, the mass killing of wildlife seemed absurdly mindless, and wholly unnecessary, though it probably reflects the attitudes of the times. The plot thickens near the end of the story, rewarding the reader for sticking it out through some tedious passages. Altogether, an intriguing read, and one to build your vocabulary.
For anyone who was wishing that Jerome K Jerome had set Three Men in a Boat somewhere in Brazil, this is the book for you! It's funny in the opening chapters, sags in the middle, and then picks up again towards the end. I can't say that I would rave about it as a 'travel' book - I got no strong sense of the place in which the story occurs. It was much more like a fictional bit of an adventure yarn, with some pretty absurd and preposterous comic incidents.
Much fun adventure by witty Englishmen of the 1920's, seeking a lost comrade in the jungles of Brazil. Curiously, like any fine journey, the book is most entertaining at the least expected times: organizing the expedition beforehand in England, and the race home afterwards both provide the most high entertainment - the actual jungle-time is almost filler. The buffoonish old-boys bumbling through uncharted wilderness never lacks for good material, though.
Interesting in that sort of horror/fascination you get when you contemplate what it would have been like to undertake this sort of travel in that time. Not so interesting in all the parts I skimmed over.
No "News From Tartary," but every Fleming travel book gets an automatic 5 stars by default, (and only because there aren't 6!). The most annoying thing about this erudite, ironic adventure classic? He wrote it when he was only 26 years old!!
wonderful narrative of a haphazard expedition in 1934 to find a major fawcette, lost and presumed dead. the party feuds and splits into competing expeditions. the lingo, attitudes, and gun usage are really archaic.
DNF - didn't hold my interest.
