https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121216.To_the_Last_Man
The feud that serves as the back drop for this story was a real one and was one of the bloodiest in American history.
While I might have preferred a story more about the feud and it's effects on the area around and western history in general rather than so much about Zane Grey's star crossed lovers, it's still a good book and a good read.
Grey himself points out in his afterward that some of the scenes depicted in the book (especially a couple of the more violent ones) actually took place.
So, a highly fictionalized romance placed in the midst of a bloody feud from American history.
An adventure/romance set in the wilds of Arizona. A crisis builds between two feuding clans of ranchers and sheep-herders, that began years ago in Texas where the two fractious and antagonistic patriarchs grew up together. The action is non-stop as the tension increases, and the gorgeous natural environment is described wonderfully. The romance is woven throughout between the beautiful daughter (brought up among rough cattle rustlers) of one clan's leader, and the handsome and brave tracker/fighter/half Indian son of the other leader. First published in 1921. I listened to this as a free download from LibriVox.org. It was read beautifully.
This book is a lot like a western Romeo and Juliet but with the opposite ending.
Obviously with a title like "To The Last Man" we all know that it is going to be a fight til only one man lives.
Also to the last man doesn't include women.I really enjoyed how the story kept going back and forth from where Jean was to where Ellen was.
That way when Jean did something amazing or heoric, it was told to Ellen.
This allowed her to marvel at him, and furthered her affections for him without making him seem like a show off.
A western romance centered in a fictionalized account of the Pleasant Valley, Arizona wars, a real feud that occurred throughout the 1880's and into the 1890's, with all of the men, except one, dead. 35 - 50 casualties. The bloodiness of it all delayed Arizona's statehood for a generation, Congress believing the territory was too uncivilized to be a state. An awesome tale. Read when I was a kid, junior high age, more or less.
I loved Louis L'Amour books thought I would give Zane Grey a whirl. Sometimes the language is a bit dated but a quick easy read
As the name implies, and in spite of the characters seeming to have more sense, the killing goes on to the last man. It is Zane Grey's interpretation of a real event.
This is an enjoyable western romance novel.
It's main motives are love and revenge, and all the way it dances on the very edge of becoming really cliched, but fortunately, writers plotting skills compensate for that, and make the reader to turn his view away from some lacking and predictable plot twists.
Although it is sometimes unequally paced plotwise, and some of plot elements have no function whatsoever (for instance, main character's dog, which runs away, appears, and runs away again), but, despite obvious unpolishness of this work, it is still an enjoyable page turner, and sometimes that is all you can ask for.
It is an enjoyable book.
Decades after his death, his books are as fresh and inspirational as when they were written so long ago.This book is the abridged version of "Tonto Basin." Apparently, "Tonto Basin" was too large for the magazine in which it was first introduced to the public, one chapter per month.
Seeing since it had been four years since I read 'Tonto Basin," it was nearly like reading the story for the first time.The story is pure fiction, but loosely based up an historical fact - a feud between cattlemen and sheep herders over 100 years ago.
This is a book I would really like to be able to use half stars.
This is also the first western I have read in a long time as well.
The romantic portions didn't bother me, but by the end of the book the western speech of the speakers was starting to bother me some.
Without these two things (speech and nudity), I would have definetly rated this a 4, but it was not 5 star material.
I may revisit this later and decide to upgrade to 4 stars after I have more time to think about it.
My grandmother left a handwritten document recording everything she knew about the family.
She had a remarkable memory for family history.
There was one huge gap: aside from the date and place of his birth, there was nothing about her husband, my grandfather Monet Gould Metcalf.
Many years later, my mother told me the reason: my grandfather was a half-breed, and she was ashamed that she married him because she was pregnant.
Not only was he a half-breed, but he was a bastard.
His parents weren’t married.
Jotakin suomeksi myös..Romanttista hömppää länkkäriaikaan sijoittuen, en pitänyt kovin kummoisena kirjana.Zane Grey - Viimeiseen mieheen(Riksin sarja 43, Wsoy, 1959, 7.painos)Alkuperäisteos: To the Last Man (1921)Riksin sarja oli WSOY:n julkaisema pehmeäkantinen kirjasarja, jossa julkaistiin viihderomaaneja vuosina 1950-1960. Riksin sarjan nimi on peräisin vanhasta Ruotsin rahayksiköstä riikintaalerista eli ”riksistä”, joka oli sata äyriä. Riksin sarjan myyntihinta oli aluksi 100 markkaa, jota kutsuttiin puhekielessä ”riksiksi”.[1]Erityisen paljon sarjassa julkaistiin Agatha Christien, James Oliver Curwoodin ja Zane Greyn romaaneja.Antikvariaateista Riksin sarjaa löytyy yhä paljon ja monilla Riksin sarjan kirjat ovat kesämökkien vakiolukemista.
bout a son coming to Arizona to help his cattle-ranching father for a pending feud with sheepherders in the 1870's.
On the way there he meets a woman sheep herder and falls in love--only to discover later that she is the daughter of his father's arch enemy.
As the tale unfolds its mixture of action and romance, the book becomes impossible to put down.
The detail in which he describes the action scenes leaves you feeling like you are right there in the middle of the gun fight.
The romance is sweet and endearing.
This is sort of a Romeo and Juliet story set in the old west between two ranchers. One rancher gets his cattle by rustling and shady deals, the other rancher has sworn vengence against him for the deaths of family members and his cowhands. The son of the second rancher comes home but meets the daughter of the outlaw rancher before he knows what has happened. Settling the feud and saving the girl keeps the book moving at a lively pace. The story was based on an actual feud in Arizona that Zane Grey researched.
Where is the 4.5 star rating?!?! Thoroughly enjoyed listening to this book on Audible. Jim Gough was another excellent narrator.The story is like many westerns. Set in the later part of the 19th century; has mention of cattle, Texas and guns; and includes a dimension of romance.During parts of this book I caught myself imagining this as a western version of Romeo and Juliet. However, this book heavily favors one family over the other. But then again, both sides have their own share of faults.Character and plot development was spot on. Zane Grey is one terrific author.
The reason I picked up this book was because I had just read the true story of the Arizona Pleasant Valley War and the real life feud between the Graham and Tewksbury families. I thought it would be interesting to read Zane Grey's fictionalized version of these events. However, his novel contains a gratuitous Romeo/Juliet love story that is pure fabrication and which I found distracting, amateurish and containing stilted dialogue. The real-life story is much more interesting and a better read. In this case, fact is indeed better than fiction.
Great western romanceI have loved Zane Grey since introduced to his stories by my father many years ago. In this western version of Romeo & Juliet he stays true. Here is a timeless tale told by a timeless author about a timeless place. Thank you for making this available now if we can get more youth to read these classics.
Zane's preface explains that he wanted to at least once cover one of the many famous family feuds, here the Jorth's and Isbel's of Arizona. He also writes about idealism and romance: "Romance is only another name for idealism and I contend that life without ideals is not worth living."
Zane did it again, brought us through this story of a family feud with all it's twists and turns. Finishing with a woman admitting her love. I do like his gentle weaving of the threads of a story into a beautiful woman tapestry
If Shakespeare was a cowboy, he'd have written Romeo and Juliet like this. Decent adventure scenes and vintage Hollywood style romance make this a pretty fluffy read. Just enough grittiness to make it fun.
About the same as the previous Zane Grey book I read...in both good and bad ways.
The second and last Zane Grey I'll read. It was hayfield and the mccoys with Romeo and Juliet in a romance novel set in the west
Predictable by enjoyable. A take off the Hatfields and the McCoys.
Set in the 1880s romance blooms in the midst of a range war. Typical early twentith century western without the sex and profanity of modern works and where writing style counts.
Fascinating feud... Good read
Traditional, stereo-type, western novel by Zane Grey. Only this one is based on the famous Pleasant Valley War....Arizona's version of the Hatfields & McCoys.
ClassicGrey can sometimes get too caught up in the descriptions of imagery. But, overall, a good read and with the time.
My favorite Z. G. novel (inspired by his interviews with Pleasant Valley war observers) as a teen has less appeal now.
I liked it
Enthralling from cover to cover, and I'm going to remember the last line for the rest of my life.
Another western with strong male characters. It was an interesting historical bite about AZ adn sheep and cattle wars.
