https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4511928-the-complete-short-stories-of-w-somerset-maugham
He excels at telling stories where things HAPPEN; the introduction to my edition, in which Maugham discusses the difference between stories with and without defined plots, is interesting in its own right and shows him as quite insightful about the strengths of his own work.These stories are set mainly in the then-British-controlled areas of the "East," broadly defined, and offer a riveting window into the relationships between the British and those native to the countries, as well as the relationships within the British communities stationed overseas.
He excels at establishing characters, setting up a conflict, and delivering that conflict.
I skipped around and didn't read all of the stories. Some I liked more than others.
This incredible set of short stories, and its companion, 'The Whole World Over' offer delightful characterization, incredible descriptions of world sites, mostly the South Pacific, and especially Maughamish twists. I've read these story sets most decades since my teens, with equal enjoyment each time!
Someset Maugham stories have it all, a master storyteller--passion among Westerners in foreign locales.
These stories revolve around the British colonial experience the South Pacific although some involve Maugham time with the British Secret Service during WWI.
All are interesting and have a ring of truth seeming to be gleaned from his personal experiences and stories he learned of during those experiences.
All the stories are very satisfying.As always, his style and writing is exquisite.
I admire this author very much and recommend these stories to you.
Maugham is great writer and many of these stories are superb. However, some of them are also filled with sexist and racist language (particularly orientalism.) Maugham's short stories would be best appreciated in a shorter collection which leaves out some of the more problematic work.
I really enjoy this book as much as his other short story collections. Fortunately the overlapped stories are not as much as in the 2nd book of this series. I like "Louise", "The Ant and The Grasshopper" etc, but other stories are equally enchanting. He would be a truly great author if he exercised more tolerance and indulged in less prejudice.
In the first volume – East and West – the stories are roughly between thirty to forty pages each.
Maugham weaves stories on these imperfect humans.
Maugham always wrote of what he knew – and it was the varied and precarious life of these colonialists that make up the bulk of the stories in the first volume.
The first volume (East and West) progresses chronologically in the order that Maugham wrote them; one can feel his style maturing after the first few stories; which although interesting, lack the subtlety and emotional strength of the later stories.
These stories were written between 1919 and 1931, when "the sun never sat on the British Empire" and classism and racism were rife.
But do also read between the lines to see how things were for the "governed." My mother has owned three of the four-volume paperback edition of these stories for most of my life.
I read them during my high-school years and enjoyed them immensely.
Then in October 2013, my mother and I found the first volume of the two-volume hardback edition at the American Association of University Women's used book sale.
Interesting but extremely irregular in the quality of the stories. Some of them are totally fascinating, other are utterly boring and definitely not worth reading, while some suffer of Maugham's love of stylistic effects which end up weakening a good story. It covers a great variety of locations, from Indonesia to England, with Maugham casting himself as the detached observer of his fellow human beings foibles. However, he often ends sounding extremely patronising or even judgemental. Some of the stories have clearly aged badly.
Taken as a whole (90+ stories,) it's hands-down the best collection of short stories I've ever read. Maugham's clear style, sense of place and time, and ability to tell a fine yarn in limited real estate, are just plain wonderful. He seems to be fading from recognition now as some of his works are passing the century mark, but you owe it to yourself to check him out.
Whether you are a reader or a writer of short stories, W. Somerset Maugham is a classic author who must be read and considered. In his "East and West" volume, you will find his better stories. They include most of the Ashenden spy stories.
A lovely and highly quotable writer.
One of the best short stories i'v ever read. Maugham is so underated author :(
