https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180378.A_Time_to_Be_Born
dawn powell is one of the best authors you have never read.
and i know you haven't read her, or more of her books would be in print.
do i need to bribe you?the best i can do is tell you that you should read her, but ultimately it is up to you.this book is not among my favorites, but it is still very very good.
what dawn powell does is write about new york artists and social climbers and wastrels of the thirties and forties, and the way they betray one another and coolly conduct their lives while disregarding the feelings of others.
We are gathered here today to remember Amanda Peeler.
Sob!Dawn Powell speaks with a clear voice to remember the woman who stepped in and out of those photographs.
Amanda wanted to live in photographs where the underwear was always brand new.
(If you want people to go to your funeral/gathering you should have booze.)P.s.s D'oh I had meant to say all along that I read on amazon that Powell's books were mean spirited and I hope that anyone who looks up this book on goodreads will believe me that it is totally not true.
For Dawn Powell, "Good taste is the consolation for people who have nothing else." Her rapier wit stabs deeply into the pretensions of NYC publishing and its distasteful social whirlpools.
When a ditzed deb tells mum that her fiance is "a terrible bore," the ambitious parent cautions, "You mustnt say things like that -- not until you're married!"
And now that you have, you must read her.Dawn Powell's A Time to Be Born is a vicious indictment of the intelligentsia of 30s and 40s New York society.
It's a vicious indictment of society period.
Imagine a Theodore Dreiser novel (I'm thinking Sister Carrie).
Now imagine that Theodore Dreiser novel written by Jane Austen.
Now imagine every character in that Jane-Austen-written Dreiser novel utterly drunk, defensive, and self-deceived.
Throw in a dash of Vonnegut/Wilde-an wit and you have an idea of what a Dawn Powell novel reads like.If you like Modernist fiction, especially Modernist fiction featuring loads of drunken, broken people, read A Time to Be Born.
Dawn Powell is one of my favorite writers. She has a wonderful eye, a tart mind, great sentences, and she's not nearly enough well known. A Time To be Born is a scathing and hilarious study of cynical New Yorkers stalking each other for selfish ends against the backdrop of NYC in the months before America's entry in WW II. Funny, a bit madcap, with terrific writing. Highly recommended.
I didn't always feel like sitting down to read this, but when I did, I was happy I had.
One of the many things I find hard to read is prose that's trying to be funny but just isn't...
a contemporary-feeling world where women fall for men who're still in love with someone else, who only make love to them when they're tight (we should bring that term back).
And the men think, 'There must be some way to put an end to loving someone you hated.
Another love, of course, but that was not so easy.' True dat, true dat.
This is the best-known of Powell's cocktail-swilling New York demimonde novels, and it is definitely the most accessible.
To read this book is a true unalloyed pleasure, and it's literally true that they don't make them like this anymore -- Powell seems to inhabit her own one of a kind writerly world and every excursion I've taken there has been memorable.Most crucially, this book now takes its place alongside James Agee's A Death in the Family as having the most exquisitely written prologue of any book ever.
Of course, while Samuel Barber wrote on of the most beautiful musical works in any language based on Agee's prologue -- Knoxville, Summer of 1915, the song that will be sung at my funeral fyi -- no one has as of yet done that for Powell.
Yet the word used for this unqualifying affection is 'cynicism.'" The Powell Effect is strikingly evident in her handling of the Clare Booth Luce character in her roman à clef "A Time to Be Born." The character is, in every conventional sense, a monster of sexual and literary deception, and a consummate liar and user, yet seen through Powell's clarifying lens her actions become understandable -- one even comes to accord her energies a respect akin to that we have for Becky Sharp.
Dawn Powell was a pretty well-known writer in the 40's and 50's but her books went out of print and she has become all but forgotten.
I liked "A Time to Be Born." Powell was a writer of social satire and commentary of her day, much like Jane Austen was in hers, and this story kind of reminded me of an Austen novel only written roughly 100 years later.
It was written about a small town in Ohio, and I just didn't like it as well as the later volume about the antics of the social set in New York City.
I guess I've had enough Dawn Powell for now.
Being inside the minds of a whole book of people was draining, but at times amusing.
I was grateful that Powell gave some back story of the childhood hurts that resulted in the decisions to do whatever it takes to win some imagined thing or relationship or status — no matter how far from truth and sanity and a real possibility of happiness it requires people to go.
A social satire, sometimes a light comedy, this book masterfully builds to juxtapose the relentless shallowness of most of the characters with the very real looming Nazi regime and WWII.
This book takes place in New York City just before the United States enters WWII. Amanda Keeler Evans is a scheming, ambitious young woman who seduces the wealthy publisher, Julian Evans from his first wife. Amanda's life is turned upside down when a childhood friend from Ohio arrives in New York. All of the characters in this book are social climbers who are looking to move up in New York society. This book was first published in 1942, but apparently there has been renewed interest in the books written by Dawn Powell. I enjoyed this book very much.
Simply perfect, a bravura show of brilliance. Powell was a gifted writer and my respect for her talent (and bewilderment at her failure to attain canonical status) increases with every book of her's I read. This novel is hysterically funny and, at the same time, devastatingly heartbreaking. Powell's gift for description is displayed to wonderful advantage here: deeply ironical, wonderfully original, and captivating. This is one terrific book.
New York City in the early twentieth century. It's very jaded and it skewers every character.
These external details say little about the appeal of this novel.As with most of Dawn Powell's books, "A Time to be Born" talks about New York City and its effect on young men and women who meet their chances there from small towns in the Midwest.
The book's two main characters, Amanda Keeler Evans and Vickie Haven, come to New York City under different circumstances and with different results after being girlhood friends in the town of Lakeville, Ohio.On the verge of WW II, Amanda has become a success by publishing a schmaltzy romantic novel and hobnobbing with the powerful under the guidance of her husband, Julian, a newspaper magnate.
What I admire in her craft at this point is how each book highlights certain variances or different characteristics of her abilities, allowing a singular voice to shine through but still maintain a fundamental shift in timbre between novels.
Despite this, A Time to Be Born reads at a faster clip than the previous two works, but why I'm not so sure.
Dawn Powell was brave as fuck.I have now read three virtuosic works by this unsung genius, and they all exude Powell's signature gifts while also highlighting different aspects of her myriad talents.
Lucido acido tenero divertito, ma soprattutto distaccato.
L'occhio di chi osserva dal di dentro, troppo disincantato per essere ammaliato da quella 'favola' che affascina gli altri, i protagonisti del suo stesso libro.
Una è una scrittrice all'apice del successo personale e professionale (che gestisce in modo del tutto egocentrico), l'altra è l'amica di provincia intelligente ma più sfortunata, che viene chiamata alla corte della prima.
La descrizione di caratteri e situazioni è magistrale: nessuna descrizione in più, aggettivi calibrati ed acume psicologico.
finisce in modo aperto: tutti felici?
non lo sanno neanche loro, ma il libro regala la felicità di leggere buona letteratura.
Here's a story that takes place in Manhattan at the Time when people are speculating whether or not the U.S. will enter the war. One of the main characters is a gold-digger who grew up with the protagonist. At the end, we're hopeful that the gold-digger will get her"come-uppance," and the protagonist has a whirlwind marriage with the ex-lover of the gold-digger, so not so hopeful about that. This book is a commentary on the shallowness of those with money, and social climbers, and is really delicious to read for someone who despises both.
Just finished reading this very entertaining book for the second time, and I only want to say, "Steer clear of the Steerforth edition!" This volume holds my personal record for the most typos spotted in any book ever - probably an average of a typo every two pages. A dubious triumph of digital-age bad publishing. By all means seek out this novel, you'll love it, just avoid this edition at all costs...
This wasn't exactly my favorite book in the world, but I still appreciated it for its look at high society in New York during World War II. For a book marketed as a "satire", though, it wasn't very funny, and many of the characters were absolutely infuriating.
It’s a masterpiece, plain and simple.
This was excellent.
This is the second time I've tried to get into this book. Just couldn't do it. I give up.
Yeah, I lost interest in this. One day I might try it again or something else of hers. I kind of feel like leaving NY of the early '40s, these superficial characters I don't really care about, so I'll move on to something else. (important to me is that my copy is a library edition from 1942 with a green cover and soft pages--not the paperback shown above)
I know I didn't really want to start reading it because the back cover summary didn't sound that appealing with its "satire of cynical New Yorkers stalking each other for various selfish ends." There's a saying that will tell you how wrong I was to judge the book on this.Hemingway reportedly said that Dawn Powell was his "favourite living writer." Well, I could never be arsed to find anything extraordinary in Hemingway, but if you like that sort of thing, here's a recommendation for you.A Time to be Born is set in New York City in the months preceding the US entry into Workd War II.
Hilarious satire of New York society characters on the eve of WW2, two of them suspiciously similar to Claire Booth Luce and Henry Luce.
She also equals Vidal's facility with language, specifically the English language:"Thinking of how to describe to Ethel Carey this thrilling debut into New York life, Vicky looked carefully at the men.
Up to the second round of liquers no one had fallen at her feet, and Vicky was obliged to console herself with the thought that they were mostly so old that such a fall might prove fatal anyway, and no girl's charm is enhanced by a flock of elderly corpses around her hem." [p.83]I'm itching to now read Turn, Magic Wheel for more background on two of the subsidiary characters in this novel.
I...don't quite know what I think of this one.
I kept meaning to read it the entire time we lived in NYC, and then we moved and I ended up reading it in California, which is not the ideal setting for such a thing.
The story itself, formed by characters and their manipulations, eventually knotted itself into an ending I found fairly hasty and less than believable.
Or was it believable by the standard of the times?
I think I need to read some more Powell to really decide.
I had never heard of her prior to that and apparently she is enjoying a renascence, which is richly deserved.Powell was part of the Greenwich Village literary scene in the 1930's and her fiction is contemporary satire--think Evelyn Waugh or Stella Gibbons.
A Time to be Born, set just prior to America's entry into WWII, features the magnificently terrible Amanda Keeler Evans, who aspires to be the woman of hour in American literary society.
Pretty much everything about Amanda is invented--she employs ghostwriters to write for her and cribs ideas from others who are in her literary circle.
Innocent girl comes to the big city...well, you know the rest.In Dawn Powell's hands this melodramatic plot oldie transforms into a satirical howler where scenes are stolen every which way by characters you have to read to believe.
It's hard to pick my favorite - there is Amanda, the anti-heroine, a me-first girl from the sticks who latches on to Julian Evans a snobby publisher who thinks the world revolves around him, or Ken, a grown-up Holden Caulfield, or Rockman Elroy, a clueless professor able to see the Universe but not its inhabitants, or his sister-in-law who only knows people's worth by their social rank.One has to feel for Dawn Powell for having to run into the characters in real life that presumably provided fodder for this novel.
Dawn Powell's relationship to her characters in this novel is very different from the sympathetic one that she employed in her debut novel Dance Town.
In this satiric, raffish look at a gold digging, social climbing woman loosely based on Clare Boothe Luce, Powell is able to both empathize with and mock the pretensions and actions of her principal characters.
Powell's wit and elan are in full bloom, and yet where she could have as easily been scathing, she is relatively benign, even sympathetic towards her characters' foibles.
Amanda Keeler Evans is a famous author and wife of powerful newspaper man Julian Evans.
Vicky Haven, her high school friend, is basically a nobody, she just wants to get over her last love.
This novel contrasts the lives of the two women amidst pre-World War II American involvement in New York.Amanda Keeler Evans gets what she wants by manipulating and using everyone around her; she is in control of herself and her life.
As Vicky Haven struggles to make a life in New York, she seems to attract those around her, simply because she is herself.
