https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34919.The_Talismans_of_Shannara
At this point, I think I might be done with the Shannara books.
Not the MTV series, not by a long shot - and certainly not after that cliffhanger!
But as for the books, I think I either need to give up now or just take a long break, because they're burning me out at this point.
I feel like they're just too more-of-the-same, and they're really not bringing anything new to the table, not like the ways the show gets a little more inventive and incorporates the post-apocalyptic setting much more strongly.Like I said, though, maybe I'll come back to this someday.
All of the threads of the previous three novels are now coming to fruition, as the Elves lead by Wren Ohmsford Elessedil, the Druids resurrected by Walker Boh, and the Sword of Shannara, found by Par Ohmsford, are all converging on a final battle with the Shadowen-controlled Federation.Of course, this is not even the most critical factor in the heroes' success.
Mostly Par and Dhamson, but also Morgan and Matty, had far more believable romances, for instance, than that of Morgan's ancestor Menion Leah and his eventual wife, Shirl, from the book The Sword of Shannara.
#17/29 in my Epic Shannara Quest.A slam-bang conclusion to an epic series. Exciting action, expertly paced with a finale in the bowels of the obsidian tower Southwatch that exceeded all of my expectations. The final reveal Brooks saved for this final volume of The Heritage of Shannara was not a surprise (if you drop enough clues, the reader will figure it out; and that's what happens here) but it didn't matter. A definite pick-me-up after the lackluster Elf Queen of Shannara.
This book picks up where the last one left off, but does so at break-neck speed and I loved that.
I would add that each main character is given a nemesis and these proved to be awesome.
I would have liked a little more from the antagonists, but all in all The Talismans of Shannara is one of Brooks' better books.
I could do without all the self-doubt portrayed by nearly every single human character, but I realize that this is a formula that works for Brooks and it has resulted in book sales....can't fault the guy for sticking with what works.
I should have added a reminder to all of the other Shannara reviews I've written the fact that these books are written for young people.
When I originally read these books, they were astounding.
But now they seem a bit hollow.
Upon rereading the Talismans of Shannara, I've discovered that the depth is not nearly what I remember.
Nonetheless, a lesson is awaiting those who are willing to read it.
Even with the sure knowledge that I have read this book before, I still was surprised by the way things end -- but, as before, pleasantly so.
I need more 😅
On the bright side, because so much of this is plot and there's so much that needs to be covered, there's just not room for Brooks to waste on the miserable never-ending navel gazing that characters such as Par and Walker are all too prone to indulging in.
(It probably sickens the men in your Elven army too, madam, but carry on letting them sicken themselves to death so that you don't have to compromise yourself, by all means.)I did like the pace and breadth of this, and I always enjoy a moor cat.
Walker was much improved from The Druid of Shannara, I liked him.
La pluma de Terry Brooks es, para mí, perfecta. Descripciones moderadas sin saturar pero que te meten de lleno en la historia, las emociones y sentimientos de los personajes bien descritas, haciendo que sientas lo que ellos padecen. Lo que he leído de historia me ha parecido coherente, muy entretenida y la resolución me ha gustado mucho, aunque creo que después de cuatro libros tal vez puede parecer algo rápido a los seguidores de la saga.¡La reseña completa en el blog!https://tintaliteratura.blogspot.com/...
todo ese equilibrio entre los personajes ha sido brillante, no fue enfocado en uno más que del otro, todos tuvieron su justa medida, su propio desarrollo, había momentos ranquilos es cierto, escenas románticas, pero no fue el eje bajo el que circuló la saga en absoluto.
(hide spoiler)] y sobre todo, considero importante también decir que todos tenían su rol, y lo hacían bastante bien.Todos, de alguna manera, entre personajes secundarios, algunos incidentales, llevaron a nuestros amigos a cumplir lo que debían de hacer.La rebelación al final del libro de todo lo que fue este asunto de los espectros me satisfizo.
This is the conclusion of the four book series. The elves, dwarves, humans, and Druids unite in the final showdown with Dimmer Rall and his forces of evil. The talismans of Shannara are recovered and brought together. A fitting conclusion to the series.
Gli Elfi sono tornati alle Quattro Terre. Paranor è tornata nel mondo dei mortali. Walker Boh ha ereditato i poteri di Allanon  ed ora è l'utimo dei  Druidi . La Spada di Shannara è stata ritrovata. Ma restano gli Ombrati. Coll Ohmsford è vivo e apprende che la Spada è destinata proprio a lui, ecco perché Par non potrà mai usarla. Intanto, Rimmer Dall e i suoi ombrati stanno sfruttando il loro esercito della Federazione per spazzar via gli Elfi dopo il loro ritorno alle Quattro Terre. Ma mentre
Intanto, Rimmer Dall e i suoi ombrati stanno sfruttando il loro esercito della Federazione per spazzar via gli Elfi dopo il loro ritorno alle Quattro Terre.
Ma mentre gli Elfi, guidati dalla loro regina Wren insieme ai Nati Liberi combattono la Federazione, Walker, Par, Coll, Damson Rhee, Matty Roh e Morgan Leah si dirigono verso Sentinella del Sud, il quartier generale degli Ombrati, da cui questi risucchiano il potere vitale della Terra.
È qui che insieme riusciranno a sconfiggere il capo degli Ombrati e a liberare la magia incatenata distruggendo Sentinella del Sud e liberando le Quattro Terre dalla minaccia degli Ombrati.
Ma lo scacco matto sarà dato a Rimmer Dall e agli Ombrati tutti a Sentinella del Sud, grazie agli sforzi congiunti di Walker, con i suoi nuovi poteri da druido, di Par, con la canzone magica, e di Coll, il vero detentore della Spada di Shannara.Il libro è in sé un po’ superficiale nel trattare le conclusioni delle varie vicende: si assiste a un proliferare di eventi che scorrono via così velocemente da non essere recepiti appieno.
The Talismans of Shannara is the final conclusion of the four books series, the Heritage of Shannara.
In this story, the charges of Allanon to the Ohmsfords have been fulfilled, and Par, Wren, Walker, Coll, Morgan, and friends must find a way to defeat Rimmer Dall and rid the Four Lands of the Shadowen.
So what I liked about this book was the style of his writing.
I really liked how he wrote each side of the story with their own thinking styles so you always knew who you were following.
(Spoilers) I really, really did not like the ending of this book.
They're much scarier, as Walker Boh discovers in The Talismans of Shannara.I've been able to finish my re-read of the Heritage of Shannara with this last novel in the series, and I must say that I'm happy with the decision I made to take on the task.As with the other novels, Walker's part was my favorite - Rimmer Dall's decision to send four shadowen in the guise of the Four Horsemen, ancient mythological creatures from the old world, made for an interesting development How Walker and Cogline are eventually able to outsmart, in part, and overcome them was a pleasure to read.I think a writer must feel challenged when writing about a character discovering an enemy's weakness.
Reading Workshop P-1 Zack Raque Weekly Reading Review #1 During the first few weeks of school, i have been reading the book called “The Talismans of Shannara”, and finished that book on 09-05-17. The Talismans is one of many sequels to the Shannara Chronicles, which is now a TV show. The show is accurate on most points, but not everything is perfect, which it can never be expected to be. The Talismans was about 4 children of Shannara Descendants who are given charges, or a duty, to recover 4 dif
The Talismans was about 4 children of Shannara Descendants who are given charges, or a duty, to recover 4 different items.
Walker Boh, the eldest of the 4, was tasked with finding and returning the druid’s keep, Paranor, which was stuck in a place between time and space.
Par and Coll were tasked with recovering the Sword of Shannara, which when used by a descendant of Shannara, the truth will be revealed.
These charges were given to the children of Shannara by the Druid shade of Allanon, who is the last druid, until the timely return of Paranor to the world.
It is the old-school, tried and true story telling, the Hero's Journey that is the foundation of Fantasy.Talismans is no different in that respect.
In Revelation 6, the four riders on the four horses are the conqueror (white horse), war (red horse, famine (black horse), and death (pale horse).
These four horsemen do not serve evil, but God. The conqueror on the white horse is, in fact, Christ himself (read Revelation 19-20).But over all, as with all of Terry Brooks' writings, I have thoroughly enjoyed once more this tale and would recommend it to any and all who enjoy classic fantasy.
Walker is still basically cool (at least in the first half of the book), but then gets infected with terminal stupidity in the ending ("I'm in such a damn hurry to rest I can't stop at the victory feast?"), not to mention abandoning the "Rargh I hate druids and their ways" plotline which actually made him interesting.
Rimmer basically doesn't care about losing the war and throws everything into seducing Par to the Dark Side; I say good riddance, these two idiots deserve each other.They at least give Wren an interesting challenge in the last half of the book in defending against a horde of evil black magic walker thingies, but everything Returns to Normal and the Day is Saved before she can come up with some cool plan to defeat them.
Well, it seems like everything got wrapped up - but man did it happen in one big epic crazy scene - or two.
Which may seem odd, because they had the most up and down again stories as far as pace - but they were gradual changes and some really great build up.
There was also a lot going on inside the heads of our characters.
Walker, especially, has a lot going on and a lot to try and figure out.
I got to see everyone together again and how everyone's previous story tied into all the others' and really came together.
And the key to that lies in the mystery of the Shadowatch - a building that somehow feels alive.This book takes us back to where the first Shannara books were - epic fights, good versus evil, light and dark, etc, etc.
Very fast-pace and excellent characters, although some feel underdeveloped here, bit characters that support the main but don't have their own lives.
The Talismans of Shannara by Terry Brooks is the fourth book in the Heritage of Shannara series set in the Shannara universe.
While all of the main characters from the series have a role to play in this book, the focus is on the two Ohmsford brothers, Par and Coll.
Both start the book in a Shadowen trap which is partially physical but more importantly mental.
In the real world we also need friends to remind us that because of God in us we are no longer evil but instead can live a life that is good.
A decent end to a decent series in Shannara.
Nothing about Shannara thus far has been overwhelmingly exceptional but it is all a competent enough fairly straight forward Fantasy series.
While that is not glowing praise, sometimes you just want a simple Fantasy with familiar tropes, young small town folk who end up wielding mystical powers and saving the earth from an overwhelming evil magic.I appreciate that unlike the first Shannara trilogy, the Heritage...
What a great wrap up to the Heritage series!Read by Rene Auberjonois, awesomely (of course).All the little seeds planted along the way pay off royally in this book.
The only thing that would have made it perfect would have been if Wren played a part in the final battle.Great tension and conflict.
Love that the women are battle-worn, showing superior skill to some of the men even though they don't use magic, much in the spirit of Eretria.
And especially love that the women are NOT coddled by the men, but recognized for their strength and skill.If this tetralogy were organized better, it would be five stars across the board.
This is one of the most disappointing anti-climactic ends to a series that I've ever read.
About 3/4 of the way through the book, I still had no idea why anyone was doing what they were doing.
It got old in the first book and was more irritating in this one.And the ending...
Let's not tie anything together really, we'll just explain it all away and go on.The only saving grace this book had was in the growth of the characters.
It was fairly well done and did make me want to continue reading.
It seems like in each book I read, Terry Brook's writing gets better.
The descriptions are less repetitive and more evocative.
Each time it doesn't seem like they're exactly at the same place.
They do learn and grow - so all in all I'm very happy with this book.
I need a little r & r from the intensity - so I'm going to read Terry Pratchett's latest new one next.
I do want to return to the Shannara saga, and fortunately Mr. Brooks has provided me with a banquet of choices as to where to go next.
Very satisfying conclusion in my opinion. I liked how the Heritage series had several books that followed the same characters. Even though I liked the first set of books each one focused on a different set of Ohmsford's and having the core group to follow over several books was really great. I love this series and I'll certainly continue with it.
Allanon's demands are being met: Walker Boh struggles to fulfill the return of Paranor to the Four Lands, Wren fights to repurpose the elves, and Par Ohmsford has possibly found the legendary Sword of Shannara. It is still unclear how these accomplishments are to mesh into a strategy to fight the Federation and the Shadowen. As their enemies use their strength and guile against them it seems that they are becoming their own worst enemies as they fight against self-betrayal and the powers of their enemies.
I read this when I was 13 or 14 years old... it was pure escapism, especially for an awkward teen who could not interact with the world very well. I was very drawn to the characters which I immediately connected with... The emotional investment that the plot required of the reader gave one amazing highs and lows and drew you further into the adventure... What a great and imaginative writer, thanks Terry Brooks...
Quality of book little bit dimished for me in last volume of series. Looks like it was one person seeking an other person and then again other and then final battle and that's it. No big twists for finale.
Everything was wrapped up pretty nicely.
Wren was back with Elves, making stupid decisions, but there's nothing we can do about that.
I really love Walker, and his struggle with his charge.
The interaction between Par and Coll interested me; the revelations about the Sword of Shannara.Morgan Leah soon became my favourite, even if he was only a side character.
who knows.Overall, the story was fast pasted and full of adventure, strategy, and questionable decisions.
I definitely prefured this one to the Elf Queen of Shannara, so it made a nice change.
After The Elf Queen of Shannara this installment seemed a little stale. There is way to many character point of views going on. I was only interested in Wren and Walker's stories, which were short. Wren's small role was disappointing, and it took her character back a few steps. Everything felt rushed and forced, and the final battle was a little anticlimactic. I might need a break from these books, since the stories feel like a mirror image of each other. If I had not skimmed my way through it I am not sure I would have finished it.
