https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1200465.Miss_Buncle_s_Book
Written in 1936 and set in about that same time, Miss Buncle's Book captures the charm of life in a small English town and the various characters who live there, with all their foibles.
In her book, Disturber of the Peace, she changes the name of the town and people, but it's pretty transparent stuff: Silverstream becomes Copperfield, Major Waterfoot is the name given to the real Colonel Weatherhead, Dr. Walker is called Dr. Rider, and so on.
Colonel Weatherhead reads the book and, vaguely inspired by Major Waterfoot's dashing and romantic proposal to Mrs. Mildmay, visits his friend, the widowed Mrs. Bold, and suddenly finds himself proposing marriage to her ...
Miss Buncle is more observant than she herself is aware, and the gap between the things she writes and says and her understanding of their implications provides some of the funniest and most insightful moments.For instance, it's never totally clear whether Barbara doesn't realize her two "spinster" neighbors are lesbians, or doesn't realize that other people will disapprove of them when she accidentally outs them.
Where the inexperienced Miss Buncle takes pleasure in giving her characters what she thinks they deserve, Stevenson gives hers what they need.
She is quietly observant in the way many introverts are and when, in desperation, she puts pen to paper to try her hand at writing fiction, the characters who people the village of Silverstream fairly leap into her book.
I don't want to spoil the fun by giving away too much, but Barbara Buncle (writing as 'John Smith') finds a publisher and an enthusiastic fan in Mr. Arthur Abbott of Messrs Abbot & Spicer.
This was a very delightful book. My full review is found on my book blog: https://quirkyreader.livejournal.com/...
Was on a BOOK-HIGH while reading. Carolyn, I cannot thank you enough for recommending me this. Without you I'd still be ignorant of the existence of this EXCELLENT BOOK. :)Delightful, funny, entertaining with great characterisation and hidden layers in an almost forgotten book from 1934 and with a fantastic audiobook narration. Reminded me of my beloved Jane Austen in more than one way and I cannot give a higher praise than that.More detailed review to come
4.5★A gently satirical look at English village life in the 1930s. Somewhat of a cross between Angela Thirkell and Peyton Place, I loved Miss Buncle, Silverstream and all the characters in this charming book.
But there is already an establishment in Silverstream.Writing a book?
She doesn’t think her books can be exciting -life in Silverstream is rather dull and I can only write about what I know.
The characters leap to life, distinguishing themselves in one way or another, and slowly but surely move along this multilayered story.Pour yourself a cup of tea, make yourself comfortable and enjoy the book!First published in 1934, the book was recently republished in e-format by the Estate of D.
Her father was first cousin of Robert Louis Stevenson.And about the book cover.
If you’re in need of taking a nice, long soak of a bath in British sentimentality, this is the book for you.
Those of us who work in publishing might seriously question the sanity of anyone trying to escape poverty by writing a novel, but hey, it works for Miss Buncle.
E. Stevenson wishes us to embrace.)Miss Buncle is a bit of a Wise Fool, so of course she has written about what she knows: all the people in the village.
Miss Buncle has taken the wise precaution of using a pseudonym, but even so things get mighty uncomfortable for her.
One of my favorite comfort reads of all time.
Though Jane Austen's name gets wrongly invoked for a lot of fiction about village life, this time I think it's close, for there is a satiric edge to the story of a plain, seemingly boring spinster in a small village who has, without anyone knowing about it, written a book.To her immense surprise, it gets published.
The only thing she knows, the life of her village, in roman a clef form.
A mighty tempest arises in this small teapot, and the book turns out to be a catalyst for many lives.
A recent comment on Sherwood Smith's review of this book brought it to my attention (via GoodReads' odd feed dynamic).
And what a gift that was!This book is complex and layered with three different levels playing out simultaneously.
Which would be cool enough on its own, but it buries all of that under an entertaining style and pitch-perfect characterization that held me firmly in its grasp from beginning to end.
If you find honest characterizations and interesting people depicted with both love and accuracy, you'll find entre into the book .
An utterly Charming, and delightful story of village life.
Miss Buncle is a spinster in rather desperate need of money as her dividends are no longer paying out.
She isn't keen on the idea of chickens or paying guests so she settles on a book.
Having no imagination, she writes about all the people in her village.
To her surprise, the book gets published and that's when the cat really gets among the pigeons.
4 1/2  This was such a funny book within a book! Barbara Buncle is a quiet, unobtrusive spinster who lives in Silversteam. To all accounts she is a bit of a, shall we say… an imbecile. (this is the opinion of the villagers not the reader) She has awful grammar, frumpy clothes and a worn house. She needs money desperately. If she can't make some somewhere she will be in a terrible fix. Shy, good natured Barabra is in a quandary as to how to get this money, after all, what can she do? That's when
Barbara Buncle is a quiet, unobtrusive spinster who lives in Silversteam.
Shy, good natured Barabra is in a quandary as to how to get this money, after all, what can she do?
Not even sly Mrs. Greensleeves overtures on the Reverend.That's when inspiration strikes and Miss Barbara Buncle decides to write a book, all about Silversteam.
Buncle, she appears so simple, and yet her book is climbing the charts!
So begins the humorous comedy that swirls around Barbara Buncle and Silversteam.
(no, they weren't all lovable, but most were) The story was fairly fast and the switch between Silversteam and Copperfield was refreshing.
I sit here deep in thought after finishing this little surprise-nougat filled-chocolate of a book.
What Christopher Nolan did for Inception and Satoshi Kon for Paprika is here encapsulated in a cozy little read about life in a small English town during the 30s.
Mr. Abbott, one of many secondary characters in the novel, sums it up pretty accurately:"Mr. Abbott had never before read a novel about a woman who wrote a novel about a woman who wrote a novel—it was like a recurring decimal, he thought, or perhaps even more like a perspective of mirrors such as tailors use, in which the woman and her novel were reflected back and forth to infinity.
Barbara Buncle is in desperate need of some fast cash and decides to write a novel in hopes that the sales generate some extra dough.
Confused whether or not the book is satirical or just entertainingly honest, Mr. Abbott- Buncle's publisher, decides to publish her book.
The only problem is once it gets into one of her neighbors hands they are able to put two and two together and the neighborhood goes off the rails in search of the author (Buncle uses a pseudonym) because they want to see the author punished in a very public way.
If I had a list for books that was labeled simply "charming," Miss Buncle's Book would certainly top the list.
A thoroughly charming book from start to finish.Barbara Buncle's dividends are down and finances are getting tight.
After a comment from her maid, Miss Buncle decides to write a book.
While the finger is pointed at many local residents no one even considers that frumpy ol' Miss Buncle could have ever had the ability to pull this book off.Have I mentioned that I was completely charmed with this book?
Charming and delightful!
So wholesome, clever, and readable. Feels very modern even though it was written in 1936. I loved it and will have to read the next one in the series soon.
Miss Buncle's Book is a charming story of English village life with an understated heroine.
In fact, she's so understated as to be nearly invisible to the other village inhabitants, but there's not much she misses about them.
Miss Buncle decides to write a book to earn money, but since she has no imagination she just writes about the people around her under the pseudonym of John Smith.
Miss Buncle's book manages to shake up the staid and predictable village life and to divert the courses of lives out of their well-worn ruts.
And not the least of those is that of Miss Buncle herself.
In the village of Silverstream, poor Barbara Buncle is in distress.
In desperation she decides to write a book, and, knowing little else besides the goings-on of her village, she writes a thinly veiled description of her friends and neighbors.
Surprisingly, Miss Buncle’s book not only gets published, it becomes a best-seller.
Critics are in violent disagreement over whether the book is harmless drivel, the product of a brilliant satirist, or.....the lurid imaginings of a dangerous subversive!
Worse, the book doesn’t merely hold a mirror up to the villagers — it imagines some of them engaging in daring, destiny-fulfilling enterprises.
Absolutely delightful!
E. Stevenson's writing and can't wait to read more of her books.
Reading it was like finding a lost literary treasure to enjoy.
Miss Buncle finds herself in need of money when things get tight.
Though she changes the names of the village and it's occupants, some of those who find themselves as characters in her book are less than enthusiastic about how they are portrayed (though they easily recognize themselves).
They set out to uncover just who among them is "John Smith." Funny, charming, and all together delightful.
Miss Buncle's Book is exactly what I needed.
It "worked on me like a tonic".
It is charmingly set between the wars in a small English village ( that's practically a guarantee for success right there, isn't it?) that is peopled with an eclectic population of folk that are not all as neighborly as they could be.
Mousy Miss Buncle writes a novel about them all and their reactions to reading about themselves in that book make up all the fun that happens next.
Ahem: I solemnly swear to collect and read every book D.
La señorita Buncle la lía parda en Silverstream se podía haber titulado esta novela.
Me ha recordado a los libros de Barbara Pym, concretamente al último que he leído, Jane y Prudence, donde también hay un pueblecito con vecinos súper pintorescos.
Creo que este libro sería una mezcla de las novelas de James Herriot y las de Barbara Pym. Creo que si metemos en una coctelera 'Todas las criaturas grandes y pequeñas' y 'Jane y Prudence' sale 'El libro de la señorita Buncle', estoy convencida.
E. Stevenson así que no creo que tarde demasiado en leer su continuación.
¡Qué maravilla de libro! Me lo he pasado genial leyéndolo y siguiendo las historias de los personajes de Silverstream. El humor, la crítica, el ambiente...han creado el clima perfecto, hoy mismo me pondré con la segunda parte.
Miss Barbara Buncle is a poor spinster living in the English country village of Silverstream where nothing ever happens and nothing ever will.
When the Depression comes to Silverstream, Miss Buncle has to do something to earn money so she takes up her pen to write a book.
"John Smith," the author of the novel, becomes public enemy #1 in Silverstream.
Not everyone finds the novel offensive, but poor Barbara lives in fear of the villagers learning she is the author and of what will happen to her when they find out.
I had to know what happened to poor Barbara.
Barbara Buncle has written a book entitled Disturber of the Peace about the sleepy little village of Copperfield.
It turns out to be a smash—until the sleepy little village of Silverstream recognizes its reflections in the text.
1. This is a perfect little froth of a book.
2. (view spoiler)[I WAS SO INTO SALLY AND ERNEST although I honestly never got a good read on how old Sally was supposed to be??
(hide spoiler)]3.
:(Also, screw that entire village for their gross dismissal of Miss Buncle as an "idiot" or whatever nonsense.
I absolutely ADORED this book.
I'm adding this to one of my favorites.
If you've read the book--the scene where a meeting was held to figure out who John Smith was--I die!
Second, you wouldn't think that a book about a lady writing a book would be riveting--but it totally was!
I'm *so* excited to read the next in the series!
What a wonderful book.
Books like this are few and far between.
It will be totally worth your time to pick it up.
I'm definitely adding it to my home library so I can read and re-read it!(thanks for the recommendation, Ames!)
This was sweet and old-timey (reminded me a bit of Lucy Maud Montgomery). And everything turned out well for everyone in unexpected ways, which is always lovely.
She sends her book to Mr. Abbot, a London publisher, who reads it with delight and publishes it as “Disturber of the Peace” under the name “John Smith.” Miss Buncle has based all the characters on her own friends and neighbors.
As they start to put a plan into place that will bring this man into the open, Miss Buncle begins to work on a sequel.
First published in 1934, Miss Buncle's Book is a bit of a screwball comedy that is escapist and creative.
G. Wodehouse you should definitely enjoy the subtly humorous story.
4.5
La he disfrutado mucho.Es divertida, interesante, inteligente e ¡histérica! (Algunos personajes).Este es un libro donde la protagonista está escribiendo un libro donde se escribe un libro. Es estupenda. Toda y todo.

