https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58506.Riotous_Assembly
If not, not.” A bucketful of differences, obviously, between a panel cartoon and a novel but I so wish Don Martin worked on an illustrated edition of Riotous Assembly with its scathing satire revolving around South African apartheid, torture and executions complements of a police force and lurid sexual perversions complements of an old lady.
Also worth noting, Riotous Assembly is the first of two novels targeting South African society, the country’s police force in particular, Indecent Exposure the second.
This book is an exemplary piece of modern satire.
The first time I read it, I was commuting on a public train and was laughing out loud the entire time.
My mother and I would read it out loud to each other and laugh so hard we cried.
In some parts it was impossible to read aloud because we were laughing so hard we couldn't breathe.
What was razor sharp criticism dulled to caricature - I would advise sticking with this book and avoiding the sequel.
(for the record, Sharpe was eventually exiled from South Africa as a result of his criticism of the government)
Scene:A deserted road in New Zealand.
In the distance, we see a bus bombing along the highway at high speed, slowing down and then screeching to a halt.Interior Bus:Bus driver turns in his seat, a look of concern on his face.
We hear a kind of strange wheezing sound, which is both alarming and somehow amusing.
Is someone having a heart attack?
An epileptic seizure?
There are tears running down his face, and he is hiccuping with ...
so ...Bus Driver: Bloody hell.
Hilariante, delirante, de um humor negro completo e surreal…Uma leitura muito divertida!
This book, written in 1970, is a brilliant, scathing, savagely funny look at South Africa under Apartheid.
G. Wodehouse and Evelyn Waugh had made a baby author, he might have turned out to be somebody like Tom Sharpe - making astute political criticism in a voice that is utterly irreverent, perverse and hilarious.The plot is absurdly wonderful - an elderly British gentlewoman calls the local police to report that she has shot her Zulu cook in a crime of passion.
Mayhem ensues.There are so many laugh out loud moments, that you almost, but not quite, forget the nightmare that was Apartheid."There didn't seem to be any significant difference between life in the mental hospital and life in South Africa as a whole.
Normally I would try and shy away from commenting about the story, however I can say that the description of this book (the "blurb") pretty much covers off the plot line, what makes it so much fun is the sheer farcical story, it reads like one set up situation after another.
A lot of the situations although not real where the creation of experiences and personalities he witnessed while working there as a teacher and social worker.So the truth strength of Tom Sharpe's work, taking aspects of our society and turning them in to a farce yet at the same time not degrading or ignoring the people wrapped up them.

This may be the single funniest book I have ever read.
While reading, I had to put the book down so many times because there were so many laugh out loud moments, it increased the time it took to read significantly.
I read most of this while relaxing in my local pub.
During those times I had no less than two complete strangers ask me what I was reading, as the needed to know what could make a person laugh so often and so hard.Not only should it be on your "To Read" list, it should be moved directly to the top of said list.
Simply brilliantLaugh out loud loudly, frequently.Had to stop as I was drawing attention to myself on the trainAlthough it's 40 years old, and (fortunately!!!) apartheid is gone, this is hysterically funny. Not necessarily realistic, but simply a farce (of quite bad taste) that comes from stupidity and failure to communicate. But it does give a (nasty) insight to racism, and pokes such fun at it.
I totally agree. Here one is absolutely helpless with mirth, in the clutches of a master satirist, and one with a laser eye for human foibles of all stripes and colors!! This book is a must-read....then follow up with "Indecent Exposure." the sequel to Riotous Assembly.You won't be sorry.Read Riotous Assembly 3 times, laughed until I cried each time.
This author gets my Big Brass Balls Award. Not many authors writing comedy would go near the issue of apartheid and racism in South Africa. It's not a funny topic. But Sharpe's depictions of rednecks, racists, and bigots are as brutal as the crimes they have committed against humanity. Sharpe is an overlooked author and this is where you should start. One of a kind.
Dark satirical humour in which Holt shows just how dumb Apartheid was in South Africa by turning everything up to a ridiculous level. Funny enough to make me cry whilst making an remarkable point. I haven't come across many authors that can manage this.
I swear it reads like a Monty Python movie. Funny and disturbing at the same time. Sadly members of the police force and other authority figures in this novel reminded me of past presidents here in the USA.
This book made me laugh out loud too many times to count. I highly recommend this if you aren't easily offended.
Manages to send up and satirise the whole history of South Africa up to the apartheid era and still contain scenes of cartoon violence featuring policemen and attack dogs squeezing each other's knackers.
Kommandant van Heerden, Konstabel Els and Lieutenant Verkramp - the book's central characters - are all amusingly flawed boneheads and make up an oddly Hancockian trio for a threesome of apartheid-enforcing Afrikaners, while other highlights in the cast include a mad, aged rubber-fetisihist spinster, a drunken clergyman, and a lisping lawyer with a high opinion of himself.
A triumph!(Also, happily the Kommandant and his men are the central characters in the sequel, Indecent Exposure, too...)
"When she looked around her, there didn’t seem to be any significant difference between life in the mental hospital and life in South Africa as a whole. Black madmen did all the work, while white lunatics lounged about imagining they were God.”You know when they say there's always a grain of truth in every joke? Well, that's precisely what Sharpe does in this novel. He harshly criticizes the Apartheid system in South Africa through the most absurd yet extremely witty dialogues and situations. Simply brilliant.
Very very funny. Few books can literally make you laugh out loud.This is one of them.
Warning for mild spoilers...Brilliant, brilliant satire of segregation in South Africa, and especially the useless and deplorable South African police force.
The first half of the book is pure farcical genius, like Fawlty Towers in literary form as a seemingly straightforward prolem develops slowly but surely into all-out siege warfare.
Having said that, it's still searingly and savagely funnier than just about anything else you'll read.

This book is a masterpiece of satire and slapstick humour set in Apartheid South Africa. With the release of Mandela and the fall of Apartheid it is possibly less funny and less relevant. The plot is frankly ludicrous, the characters absurdly drawn (or so I thought until a Boer told me I was "a waste of God's good oxygen" three years ago) and his attention to detail - the use of local anaesthetic injections to prevent premature ejaculation, for example - is masterful. The books written around this time a Sharpe's zenith as a satirist.
"In poor taste"; "shocking"; "grossly offensive"; "obscene" - Tom Sharpe's first novel may be described thus. Yet for Sharpe, I'm sure these reviews would be considered high praise, and the mark of a job well done. This book put the crass absurdity of South African Apartheid into vivid perspective, while also providing a few laughs. I highly doubt anyone would dare publish it today. JM
Probably one of the most evilly humorous books I have ever come across. I laughed (and cringed) throughout.
Slow to get moving, but then became a fast-paced farce. Good light entertainment.
Odd != FunnyReads like Monty Python manqué.
3.75 for now.I read this book on the emphatic insisting of my big bro. And I really liked it! Detailed review in a month when I will be done with finals!
In turn, he sent me some British humor: Tom Sharpe and Clive James.
He indeed manages to combine the wit and language skills, as well as the awkward situations, of Wodehouse with the sharpened pen of satire and low opinion of humans from Thompson, and his target is South Africa and the police forces there (I believe that he was jailed there for awhile, and ultimately deported).Upon finishing Riotous Assembly, I rushed to see if I could find any more by this Sharpe fellow.
At the end of the day (roughly in 1991, at last) it just wasn‘t funny, was it?
This novel might make anyone think twice about the merits of the TRC (Truth and Reconciliation Commission – the agency which tried to get South Africa into the modern age without getting a tenth of the white population punished).
At the end of the day – and the novel – this just isn‘t funny.
For those who have read (spoiler alert, if you must know): No fun should be contrived from characters like Konstabel Els. Konstabel Els is not funny.
And no: It‘s not too much to compare these to Els and his likes.
N. Ashley wrote in the Encyclopedia of British Humorists that "Sharpe's humorous techniques naturally derive from his fundamental approach, which is that of the furious farceur who compounds anger and amusement." (Wikipedia, 2017)Tom Sharpe must have loathed South Africa, his one-time home, to have written this scathing satire on a small town in Zululand, before the abolition of apartheid.
Still, I'm sure he was wildly unpopular with the Dutch who murdered and raped their way to taking over South Africa from its rightful indigenous owners, as witnessed by his deportment in 1961.
Funny in places but not in enough places for me.Also, it was quite erratic and a bit hard to follow at times, at others, over the top. Certainly not as good as Wilt.Side Note: For those of a sensitive nature, and without spoiling the story, this is set in South Africa and has elements of 1970s Apartheid about it. As such, it has quite a lot of racial slurs and degradation, so please be warned.
The apartheid era Police in South Africa come in for a metaphorical kicking in a story of racism, stupidity and profound sexual deviance. Highlighting the ridiculous nature of the apartheid system by poking fun at it via a dim-witted Police Commandant and his incompetent, occasionally murderous and corrupt officers results in a book that is both incredibly witty and astonishingly crude but never less than hilarious.
