https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815687.The_Adventures_Of_Robin_Hood
If this isn't the definitive collection of the tales of Robin Hood and His Merry Men, I don't know what is. Beautifully told and accompanied by fabulous colour plates. Informative and entertaining, fun and moving. Yes, it's a little old-fashioned in its storytelling, but it fits the stories perfectly. Quite simple, if you've ever wanted to read about Robin Hood, this is the way to do it!
So many versions of this story! I enjoyed it from start to finish.
I have always loved the tales of Robin Hood and these adventures by E.C. Vivian did not disappoint. I would bet that almost everyone in the English-speaking world has heard of Robin Hood, as he makes appearances in a few classics I have read before, such as  Ivanhoe, and was a staple tale of my childhood.
Although I'm from Nottingham and have a soft spot for Robin - I had obviously never read a version of the stories (which surprised me). I've obviously only seen the movie versions! Enjoyed the tales and the way this was written - it's piqued my interest in finding out a bit more about what the actuals tales and ballads record and what we think the 'real' story may be.
A classic....I just couldn't get the Disney music out of my head as I read this.
Funnier than I thought it would be. Sad ending though.
4.5 out of 5
Reread of a book I had remembered from elementary school.
This is an awesome version of Robin Hood!
The illos are great, including some of the classics by Pyle, some glitzy old hollywood images and some old medieval manuscript type images.
The text is from the turn of the century, and so has this really classic, heroic flavor to it that you just don't get with modern writing--but it is short enough and quick-moving enough that you don't get really mired down in the difficult language.
Recommend this to fans of Ranger's Apprentice, Eragon or anything medieval-ly.
Another favorite in this vein is Robin Hood: His Life and Legend by Bernard Miles and illustrated by Victor Ambrus.
The adventure of Robin Hood was 3 of 5 stars.The only part I didn't like about the book was the older words that are a little difficult to understand.Anyway the story was ok by the means of the excitment like when Robin Hood and his merry men were in battle.The band of Robin Hoods clan trying to live off the land was breath taking.In the end in the depths of sherwood forest robbing and scaring people off the land and Robin Hood still young.
Although this lacks the lyrical quality of many other tales of Robin Hood, this compilation of the many stories of the outlaw and his followers is well worth reading by any who may be interested in his story.
Probably my favorite of the Robin Hood novels. Charles Vivian did a fantastic job of combining many of the legends and compiling them in a way that actually felt more like a story of his life then short chapter vignettes, while keeping true to those legends.
Old English was hard to follow. I needed a character list to keep track of the different names certain people were sometimes referred to as. And there had to be more than one person with the same first name?!? But the action was wonderful and exciting!
This version of the Robin Hood tale came across very well in the audio book format. The reader Dan Elsea portrayed the characters vividly and I could visualize the scenes with ease. I also enjoyed the fact that the tale is complete to the end of Robin’s life.
No wonder the legend of Robin Hood has lived for so long. This is a good story. The reader has to wade through some more difficult and old-fashioned words, however, it wasn't too bad. It might even be good for us to learn a little more about our native tongue.
I was thrilled to discover this version in a second hand shop as it was this book the Robin of Sherwood series took names from and a few of the ideas as well. Its an elegant telling, though the language is more dated and fun to read and spot which parts the TV series took and adapted.
I loved this book. I've always loved the stories about Robin Hood (the Disney cartoon was one of my favorite movies as a little girl, and also the source of my first crush), and this reminded me of why. The stories were fascinating. The art was also beautiful.
This book is great because I was curious about what would happen nect when Robin Hood shot his arrow to the apple on his son's head!
By E. Charles Vivian
Gorgeous illustrations and beautifully written stories. We will read this again and again.
Interesting book. It was nice to read this and get a different perspective on Robin Hood. I would like to go and read some other versions now to see the differences.
Good telling of the Robin Hood legend. Lots of battles and includes his marriage to Marion and their deaths.
audio
Joshua loved it, despite the archaic language. I just liked it."What did you like about it, Josh?""The archery."
Who didn't love Robin Hood as a youngster?
read some time in 1979
see also: children's vintage for another version
