https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8255917-washington
There is no striking reevaluation of his generalship or his presidency; Chernow posits no National Treasure-like theories with regards to Washington’s masonry, or whether or not Washington left clues to a buried chest of gold ingots in the U.S. Constitution.
Washington’s ambush of the French diplomat Jumonville made him a chief instigator in starting a world war, while his actions at Fort Necessity and during the Braddock Massacre give us glimpses of the man – flawed yet great – that Washington would become.
While most of the events of Washington’s life are dealt with chronologically, Chernow devotes certain chapters to a single subject.
I generally don't like biographies, but, knowing little of Washington save for his French and Indian War and Revolutionary War exploits, and not having heard anything bad about Chernow's biography, I figured I might as well learn something.Why should you read this book when you think that you know all you need to about George Washington?
One of Chernow's objectives was to show that Washington made his own decisions, after consultation with those whose opinions he respected, and contrary to the charge made by his enemies was not controlled by men like Hamilton.What I found most interesting were the discussions of those aspects of Washington's life that are generally not covered in one-volume biographies.
Washington: A Life by Ron Chernow.
over 800 pages but I am so happy I stuck with it.Outside of the folklore, I realized I knew nothing of the person who was George Washington.
He became a real flesh and blood person.I think, though, that the most important thing I learned from this book was actually not even about Washington himself.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who really wants to get a sense of George Washington , the man as well as the the first President of the United States.
My daughter owns her own copy of Chernow's Alexander Hamilton and just today showed me Chernow rapping "Alexander Hamilton" dressed in the show's distinctive revolutionary garb for #Ham4Ham. We were lucky enough to see Hamilton in NYC.So, now, after President Trump's election, I'm finding spiritual solace in reading a book-a-day (at least in January) and trying to read at least one presidential biography a month (this month I read two, this one and Caro's The Path to Power, LBJ #1).
Grant - ★★★★★ Upon reviewing my reviews, I'm convinced Chernow does slightly better at writing histories of individuals rather than families; politics rather than finance.
A truly powerful biography ought to encompass strong views of the individual throughout their life, give flowing connection through historical happenings, and offer a collection of anecdotes little known to the reader for synthesis.
While little is known about Washington's youth, Chernow sifts through documents to create a fluid narrative and presents it to the reader, alongside some key aspects to his family life, particularly the relationship held with Mary Ball Washington, his ornery mother.
It was extremely well-researched and very detailed.
It was really long.
It was really long.
It was really long.
Before reading this, I knew the basic things everyone knows about George Washington.
Now I know that he wasn't always this god that we think he was.
He was ambivalent about slavery, made some fairly bad decisions, and spent much of his time dealing with his own insecurities (imposter syndrome?) In short, George Washington was an imperfect human just like the rest of us.
This imperfect human, however, helped build a country.
I can barely build something with Legos.
High-five, George.
I've been feasting on history lately, with this the latest course. At 817 pages, this book isn't for everyone, but having read Chernow's Hamilton, Vidal's Burr, Gordon-Reed's The Hemingses of Monticello, Ambrose's Undaunted Courage, I chose to fill in this chasm in my knowledge of the early republic. As always, the truth is more complex and nuanced than legend. People who claim to love this country should invest more time in the study of its history.
(I know more about Washington's dental troubles than I need to, really).It was great on audio because it didn't allow me to get bogged down in the details, but by listening to this to and from work for seven weeks, I feel a have a really good general sense of this man and his vital role in the formation of our country.
I've never going to remember and learn everything.Between this and my obsessive listening to the Hamilton soundtrack.
It's good, in this time of political turmoil, to remember that the foundation of our country was pretty much turmoil incarnate.
That, and everything Dan Brown "taught" me in "The Lost Symbol."Needless to say, all of those "facts" were lies and I knew nothing about George Washington.This was a very interesting book.
However, I'm sure those parts were fine and the problem lies with me and not the book.I loved learning about Washington's complicated stance on Slavery.
Awesomesauce.I truly believe that Washington was the perfect man to be the first President.
He could have been king but was humble enough to know that such a decision wouldn't be best for the nation.I have a new found respect for the man and am now actually excited about reading the other founding fathers biographies, especially Thomas Jefferson.
And his efforts, in one example, to squeeze as much work as he could from an 83-year-old slave certainly don't put him in a good light.On a lighter note, I had never before realized how much of a "metrosexual" (to use a modern phrase) George Washington was.Finally, ever since I read The Guns of August about ten years ago, I've been sensitive to the use of the phrase "must have" when reading history, and Chernow used more "must haves" than in any book I can recall reading.
I thought of this quote each time I encountered one of the many "must haves" Chernow used.
With a breadth and depth matched by no other one-volume life of Washington, this crisply paced narrative carries the reader through his troubled boyhood, his precocious feats in the French and Indian War, his creation of Mount Vernon, his heroic exploits with the Continental Army, his presiding over the Constitutional Convention, and his magnificent performance as America's first president.Despite the reverence his name inspires, Washington remains a lifeless waxwork for many Americans, worthy but dull……These are not my words, but rather the beginning of the book description at Goodreads.
Update: I just couldn't leave this review as it was, given Winona Ryder's amazing  “Drunk History”  portrayal of Benedict Arnold's wife,  Peggy Shippen.  This book was everything that I didn't know that I didn't know about  George Washington  (you know, like in that punnet square of things you know you know etc.). Prior to reading this, I kind of assumed that I was knowledgeable about GW, I guess just through osmosis (my walk to work literally follows the Freedom Trail).Turns out that, despite c
George Washington
Prior to reading this, I kind of assumed that I was knowledgeable about GW, I guess just through osmosis (my walk to work literally follows the Freedom Trail).Turns out that, despite commuting from historical points A to B on the daily, my knowledge of revolutionary-era America was pretty limited.
(well, technically Arnold) pretty much ran a pseudo 
That's right George Washington, you got played by this little minx.
Though, obviously I didn't start off with Washington thinking that one should pick a slave with good teeth (ironic given his dental situation).Long of the short, this book is pretty revolutionary (see what I did there?)
I did not notice much new information about Washington's life or character, but Chernow's style of writing, the book's nearly perfect pace and the conclusions he provides toward the end of the biography complement the enormous volume of previously-published works on Washington.What I particularly liked was Chernow's manner of narrating which almost made it seem this was the first time I'd read about Washington...despite this being my third cradle-to-grave sojourn through Washington's life.
But if I had to recommend just one biography of Washington to a friend who hungered for an exceedingly well-written, insightful and astonishingly enjoyable presidential biography, I would enthusiastically recommend "Washington: A Life" by Ron Chernow.Overall Rating: 5 stars
At the end I felt that I knew both the man and the country he helped create.Chernow does a better job than any other book I've read in depicting Washington's courage during battles and how his presence and leadership stopped many American retreats and inspired many American advances during key moments in the Revolutionary War. However, this is not a fawning biography, Chernow discusses strategic mistakes by Washington, how he sometimes did not protect flanks during battle leading to defeat and how he sometimes he did not adapt to changing battlefield conditions as other great generals have done.However, Chernow leaves the Revolutionary War chapters leaving little doubt that it was Washington's leadership that made the difference in the War.Chernow also shows that Washington did not just believe that it was the battlefields that were the key to the war, he also shows Washington's preoccupation with financing of the war and the need for a country to develop credit and a strong financial system.
I have just recently been reading some of the biographies of the founding fathers.I was amazed to realize that the American revolution lasted eight years and Washington was the commander-in-chief for that full time.
He gave up on that idea for the last two years of his presidency and after his retirement when he became a pretty determined Federalist and enemy of Jefferson.To extremely controversial issues that were dealt with fairly openly indicating Washington's position where slavery and treatment of the Native Americans.
Chernow took Washington’s time leading the Continental Army to not only show his military decisions, but also his interactions with Congress which would shape his political outlook not only during but after the war for a strong central government.
Finally, Chernow proved a look into Washington’s creation of the Presidency in relation to Congress and the Judiciary, to foreign and domestic affairs based on his experiences throughout the war and afterwards.After finishing the book, the reader sees how Washington was uniquely qualified for the times he lived in and also a normal human being.
Chernow gives the reader not a waxwork life, but a moving one that shows it was only Washington who could have done what was needed during the last quarter of the 18th century.
. Washington boarded the last boat in the nick of time: he could hear the British firing as it pushed into the water." (250) In addition to enlivening the near-misses, the book also highlights that this was a war of attrition: "Washington did not need to save towns [or to win most of the battles] but only to preserve the Continental Army and keep alive the sacred flame of rebellion." (344) Chernow also showcases the intense political controversy during three time periods, which are often portrayed as inevitable : (1) the American rebellion itself; (2) the ratification of the Constitution; (3) Washington's successful two-term presidency.
And there existed a tenderness and need.Childless, Washington nevertheless seemed to relish an avuncular role with younger family members and with ascendant talents like Hamilton.Washington's response, or lack of response, to the betrayals of Jefferson, Madison and Monroe and to the pettiness of Adams, shows not just a political delicacy but a moral courage of being the better man.
Beyond the 'biography' though, Chernow, in Washington: A Life, made me think of the American Revolution in a wholly new way.
The American Revolution was different, Chernow teaches.
This is the story of George Washington's life - from the cradle to the grave, his family, his country, his story.
While at times, I feel he speculated on Washington's thoughts and feelings, this book still stands as an honorable tribute of one so wrapped in honor.There is also a number of details on the lives of other Colonial characters including Alexander Hamilton, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison and Lafayette.
Amazing.My life will never be the same for having read it.
I'd like to recommend it to everyone who lives in and loves America, but I understand that this story is not for the average reader.
That said, if Chernow tried to give the full context for everything that happened in Washington's life, this would book would be 100,000 pages long, so on the whole I think the balance struck is very good.I would highly recommend this book as a good history of the Revolutionary War and formation of the United States, as good management training as a profile of one of the greatest leaders in history and as a great biography of a fascinating human that has been arguably the single largest influence on the character and structure of our great country.
He was truly a great man.
He was in the right places at the right times and he did what he had to do, a lot of which would not be politically correct today.
Overall this book was extremely detailed.
It has all the info about this man you would want to know, and then some.
The one main reason that kept this from 4 stars was this: I was expecting more about the political climate during this time period, more historical facts on the people and places pertinent to his life, and a little more information in terms of relationships.
It had this, really, it did because this is a long book.
I basically read this as an experiment to see if I thought I could get through Chernow's Hamilton book which is twice as long. I don't usually do a lot of biographical reading, but I enjoyed this look at Washington. I learned so many things, which is super not surprising because I knew next to nothing.
Chernow respects Washington but does not shy away from pointing out the man's flaws, such as owning slaves and wanting to be looked upon as a regal Virginia planter, necessitating the use of a fancy carriage to travel around in.
As is typically the case, I think that Chernow gets it right here, neither washing away all of the good things that Washington did simply because he owned slaves, nor in any way excusing or justifying that atrocious aspect of his life.
One noticeable difference between Chernow's biography and that of James Thomas Flexner is in the treatment of Alexander Hamilton and his influence on Washington.
I FINISHED.
It has been a long four years, you guys.This was interesting.
It's certainly comprehensive and it's mostly readable, but the trouble I mostly had is that there is a lot I just didn't care about reading.
This is often a problem I have with biographies of military figures, in that stuff is very hard for me to conceptualize.
I think that I found the stuff about Washington's relationship to slavery the most compelling of all of the information in the book, and it definitely does the most to make him a living figure instead of a marble statue.
I'm glad I read this.
George Washington wasn’t perfect, but I still believe his larger than life portrayal in American lore is accurate.
His composure, integrity, and dedication to the letter of the Constitution were vital for America to survive its infancy.
I’m convinced no one else could’ve led the Revolutionary War or our young nation as well.
This is the second of his I’ve read, and despite all of the facts they recite, both books (this one and the one on Hamilton) read more like novels than non-fiction works.
Both books’ appeal is because of the fascinating lives Washington and Hamilton led but also because of Chernow’s beautiful, succinct prose.
This was my first adult biography of George Washington, serving to tie together the tidbits from other mature histories about the period of his life, exposing the actual man as opposed to the icon we learned about in elementary school.
He was, however, throughout his life, a major slaveholder during a period when many opposed the institution and, feeling some guilt about the practice, he did will the emancipation of his personal slaves upon his death.
He was, to virtually all appearances, courageous, responsible, steady, self-controlled, self-contained, dependable--a man with a fine sense of duty: duty to family and to the federal state he helped to create and sustain during its early decades.
2.5 stars. The problem with biographies about "great men" is that their stories are actually far less great than legends have made them out to be. Chernow is an overrated biographer.
Hamilton developed the capitalistic economic theory and convinced Washington that is was the best way to create a successful economy.
Another important point that Ron Chernow brings up is Washington’s acceptance of the “necessary and proper clause” contained in the constitution as a justification for executive branch action when it is not specified specifically in the constitution.
However Jefferson disagreed with the Jay Treaty and started a behind the scenes backstabbing campaign against America’s hero and president by paying Philip Freneau to slander him in Freneau’s newspaper the National Gazette.There is so much in this book and my review could go on forever.
Yet in dissecting his life, deep contrasts begin to appear: a lack of close friendships (indeed, only a few ever sprouted in his life), explosive emotions when hidden away too long, constant self-doubt at his own abilities in whatever he did.Washington was not the military hero one hears about.
On the ever famous subject of his slaves, Chernow notes Washington's evolution - his belief in the theory of abolition, but not in the practice.
While it doesn't have the lighter yet critical tone of a McCullough biography, it does stand on it's own with a style and belief of goodness in the human spirit, waiting to be unleashed by the greatest minds from every walk of life.
Ron Chernow describes the life not only of George Washington from the cradle to when he died but the reader can grasp everything that went on during this time February 22, 1732 to December 14, 1799.
He was 2 years younger than her.George W loved and lost and copied love poems to that effect but torned to his surveyor's jobs (1750).Ron Chernow fills you with all the details and references for further study.I felt inclined to learn about what was the meaning of being a slave owner (history of slavery) then and about the Indians and how they almost all died from diseases that were brought to North America.I am going through this book a second time and will adjust my review to suit.
