https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2761356-the-sweet-gum-tree
love!!I'm a mess - it was an intense, utterly riveting book that I literally  could not  put down, that kept my heart racing, kept me near tears for a good chunk of it, that had me hanging off of every word that I read, and the story just ripped my heart out but yet still had a very sweet ending.The writing was beautiful and flowed effortlessly, the characters were vivid, and the story was gripping and sucked you right in from the start.If you are looking for a captivating, bittersweet, emotional read with a happy ending, this is it!I started reading this book around midnight after a whole day of traveling expecting to just read for an hour and put it down.
BREATHTAKING!Books like The Sweet Gum Tree are why I love to read.
Filled with beauty, symbolism, heartache, forgiveness, redemption, and an undying love all around—this ultimate love story turned out to be one of the greatest books I've ever read!Since the synopsis for this book is generous and intriguing enough, I don't feel a summation of the story here is necessary.
I love reading books with references to the finer things in life.
Nick was Alix's "sweet gum tree", and his love stood deeply rooted in Alix's life no matter how the storms threatened to rip them apart.
He brushed my hair back. “You’re the only one I’ve ever wanted, Alix, the only one I’ll ever want. That’s a promise.” “God, I can’t lose you again.” His whisper was harsh, filled with pain. “Not now, when I’ve waited so long to hold you. I think it would kill me. But I’m so damn scared you’ll hate me when you find out the truth.”This was both heartbreaking and sweet <3Amazing romance that spans decades, from childhood sweethearts to adult intense love.<3The story“I didn’t want to stop. It
But I’m so damn scared you’ll hate me when you find out the truth.”This was both heartbreaking and sweet <3Amazing romance that spans decades, from childhood sweethearts to adult intense love.<3The story“I didn’t want to stop.
(hide spoiler)]Having said that, the childhood part was interesting, so as the teen years, I can't say I hated reading it cause I loved those two together, I just wish it was SHORTER!The melodrama at the end.I am not a melodrama fan either and the ending was a bit weird for me, especially the epilogue.
5 Beautiful Stars! If you are like me, and have just had this book sitting on your e-reader for months and haven’t gotten around to it, do yourself a favor and bump it to the top of your TBR list! Such an amazing, beautiful, sweet, and at times- heartbreaking story.Alix and Nick (as adults)  Alix French and Nick Anderson both grew up in the same small town. They meet when Alix is 8 and Nick is 10. Alix comes from a good family. She lives with her grandfather ‘Judge’, her mama and her two aunts.
Such an amazing, beautiful, sweet, and at times- heartbreaking story.Alix and Nick (as adults)
Nick never feels good enough for Alix.
Nick and Alix start to fall in love.
Alix is technically seeing a guy who her mama wants her with, but she doesn’t love Hugh.
Many heartbreaking things happen from here...Alix finds herself (view spoiler)[pregnant with Nick’s baby.
(hide spoiler)] Hugh, the guy she has been seeing finds out all about Nick and wants to marry her anyway.
(view spoiler)[ I knew Nick would NEVER cheat on Alix.
I loved Nick and Alix.
Not so much.See the secret that Nick holds is supposed to be something deep and mysterious, kept close to the his vest.
To make it worse, he keeps perpetuating the misunderstanding BY NOT TELLING HER THE TRUTH.
bbbluuurghhhAdd that to me being already irritated with Alix for clinging to her misplaced hatred toward the man she supposedly once loved to her very soul and I was over my first blush of excitement fairly quickly.
Though I kept reading, I was done about 40% in.Generous 2 pts- 1 for keeping me reading and 1 for the magnificent setting and characters.
3.75 starsI liked this one. Didn't make the five star mark for me. The misunderstanding was a bit too much for me. The fact that Nick felt no compulsion to stay irritated me a bit. Saying that, it was quite a good read. “You can’t turn love on and off like a light switch, no matter how hard you try. All you can do is wall it off, one brick at a time, until you’ve created an impenetrable fortress around your emotions. And once that fortress is built, you camouflage it so well that even you can’t
The fact that Nick felt no compulsion to stay irritated me a bit.
“You can’t turn love on and off like a light switch, no matter how hard you try.
And once that fortress is built, you camouflage it so well that even you can’t see it anymore.”
“To my surprise, Nick reached under his shirt and pulled out the half-heart pendant.
“No one should have to go through life with only half a heart,” he whispered.” 
But it’s real value, one unrealized by most people, is it’s deep red heart, steady and strong.”
OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG OMG *deep breaths*Holy shit....that was THE BEST EFFING BOOK I've EVER read....hands down!!!!
But make no mistake, this book is UNFORGETTABLE, EPIC, GUT WRENCHINGLY BEAUTIFUL novel I've EVER read and I can't think straight for the life of me.
Ahhhhh, he’s one sexy beast!!In the meantime, we meet the Judge, Aunt Darla, Aunt Jane, Jenna (Alix’s best friend), Hugh and many more characters that I will never forget.Once things get good for Nick and Alix, they finally make it a point to tell the family that they are together.
Alix still wants Nick in her life and Hugh starts looking elsewhere.
Nick and Alix's love story will compell you like no other.
What I loved most about it was all the emotions it induced in me...but most of all, I could not get enough of Nick, Alix and their love...This is one of the, hands down, most beautiful books I have ever read.
I would really like to continue to read about these amazing caracters in a sequel.
I wish there were more books like this, it really touched my heart.It is books like THE SWEET GUM TREE that is my reason for reading, because every once in a while you stumbles across pearls like this.
You know when you're reading a book and you know you're going to get your heart broken, but you just can't help turn the pages...
Nick and Alix's story is so emotional.
Alix falls in love with Nick from an early age, when she decides to 'save' him from his abusive, low-life excuse for a father.
I'd read enough to know that one of the symptoms of grief was a deep anger at the loved one who'd died, anger that impaired your judgement, made you want to scream and curse because they'd left you.
I knew immediately after reading this that I was either gonna rate this 1 star or 5 stars, because I had a love/hate relationship going on with this thing.
I already knew I love that shtick; however, what I did NOT realize until I read this book is that I loathe the "I am going to be a martyr and make myself and everyone around me miserable as a result" shtick.
And it takes talent to make a reader love and hate an entire book at the same time.Well done, Ms. Allred!
I can't justify a 5 star rating with an ending that felt rushed like it did (see below).Brief Summary of the Storyline:  This is Alix and Nick's story.
I cried but I didn't need any tissues this go-round, but I definitely remember crying a lot more the first time!Push/Pull: Yes (view spoiler)[The H pushes away in the past, and the h pushes away in the present.
The connection was so strong otherwise that I didn't even miss it!Safe sex: No mentions of any safe sex specifics.OW/OM drama: Yes (view spoiler)[There is a OW that grew up always around the H.
(hide spoiler)]Separation: Yes (view spoiler)[They are separated for about 15 years.
Down!!!If you're in the mood for a gripping, emotional roller coaster love story, then this is the book for you.
But it's so worth it!The story is about the growing friendship of Alix and Nick.
I loved reading about their growing friendship and all the ups and downs.
The author does such a good job detailing everything that it was so easy to picture Alix and Nick and fall in love with them.
As much as I enjoy trying to figure out what's going to happen in the book, Katherine Allred loves to drop bombs before they happen!
5 Broken Hearts Stars! Alix French was 8 years old when she went to the scrap yard with her grandfather (Judge) and met 10 year old Nick Anderson. While Nick is getting a part off an old truck Alix sees that Nick has been beaten by his father and runs to get some bee balm and tends to his wounds. Their friendship grows from this act of kindness and so the journey begins. Alix is from a very respected country living family. Nick is not that fortunate. His father is the mean town drunk that everyo
I loved how easily Alix's family became Nicks family.
Of course this room would be where Nick and Alix's friendship grows and eventually turns into more.
When the night comes to finally tell her family that her and Nick are going to be together Nicks father gets shot.
Nick tells Alix to live her life and forget about him.
Many years later and when Alix's divorce is almost final Nick shows up in town.
A lot happened while Nick was away and Alix is emotionally detached from everyone.
I hate to say I figured out what really happened and why Nick was sent away.
❝"No one should have to go through life with only half a heart," he whispered.❞  To be completely honest with you all, I never would've picked this book up for its cover. I don't particularly judge too much on a book's cover but it reminded me of those indie romance novels with half naked men and women clinging to each other plastered right on the front cover. XD BUT I decided to put my hesitations aside and dove right into this book. After bringing The Sweet Gum Tree to a close, I had no regr
I haven't been able to read and finish a book in two weeks but The Sweet Gum Tree brought me out of my reading funk.It wasn't the greatest love story I've ever read about but it's definitely up there.
Although this book was mainly about Alix and Nick, we do get to witness their friends and family overcome their own struggles in life.I have no complaints with the exception of two key factors that made me sick off a star: the pacing and the miscommunication.I genuinely wish that this book was longer.
This thing was like a fricking telenovela...
and I LOVE telenovelas!Thanks to Alona for reading this with me.
This book tells the story of a girl who grows up in a small Arkansas town.
She falls in love with the wrong boy, but, of course, he's really the right boy.
There are lots of cruel twists of fate:ABUSE!SURPRISE PREGNANCIES!SHAM MARRIAGES!MURDER!I really enjoyed this book.
The writing was great.
I loved each and every ridiculous plot twist.
I loved the predictable ending.
This thing was a great, soapy, schmaltz-fest that is highly recommended.
5 starsThe Sweet Gum Tree has been in my TBR forever, and good thing I already owned it because you can't even buy it right now.
I almost feel guilty for reviewing it.
"Read this book; it's awesome!
Sucks for you..."Rumor has it, the author is coming out with a new and improved version, fresh with a not-so-eyeroll-ey cover.
Thank God. That cover did this book a serious injustice.
If you have the opportunity, read this.
Right fucking now.
AND DON'T READ THE BLURB.
Just go in blind and don't forget your tissues.The Sweet Gum Tree is epic.
Set in the south and begins when the lead characters are children drawn together by tragedy.
Update on 1/8/17NOTE: I first read Alix and Nick's story back in 2005 -- long before I joined Goodreads.
However, I've never posted a decent review or added it to my list of books read here.
And when I'm finished, I'm making it one of my first goals in 2017 to give The Sweet Gum Tree a proper place on my Goodreads list of books read with an updated review as well.
It's one of my very favorite books to ever have had the pleasure of reading.
Do NOT try reading this story without at least two boxes of Kleenex by your side.
This story draws you in so deeply that it's a shock to the system when you emerge back into real life.
It's so well written (and that's the true gift) that, while you're consciously following the characters' lives, you're subconsciously absorbing the story through the filter of your own life experience and emotions.
When a story can do that....well, in my life, it's been pretty rare.
Incredibly moving story and, absolutely, a 5-star read!
If that’s not dishonorable, I don’t know what it is.The heroine on the other hand, wasn’t perfect but she made more sense.
Because you know, having sex never results in children, so of course it never dawned on him that he could have left her in the lurch with a bun in the oven.I could go on and on about the issues I had with this book.
We readers know that there will be conflict in the book; you don’t have to warn us every single time.
Alix and Nick’s story spans over a long period of time and the only thing that we are truly certain about throughout the book is Alix’s love for Nick.
I suspect that a man like Nick would carry the burden of his mistakes for the rest of his life and I was happy that they allowed forgiveness to heal their broken hearts rather than allowing hurt and regret to torture them forever.The ending was just perfect, I think it couldn’t have ended better.
Her story begins when she is 8 years old and meets the 10 year old hero, "Nick Anderson." Nick is from the wrong side of the tracks, with a disasterous family life of only a father, who is the "town drunk," and who arbitrarily beats him.
As I continued reading, not only was I loving an incredibly written story, but I also started realizing that I was falling in love with the characters as well.
Their association to the main characters only added a special warmth and understanding of, "we care what people think," small town, U.S.A. Towards the end of Alix's story, there were several times I wanted to shake her ever-loving head off!
WOW! The Sweet Gum Tree is an emotional, gripping tale of a love so raw and bittersweet that will leave you breathless. This will grab your heart and take it on one fantastic ride.Nick  This is beautifully written, with characters that are realistic and wonderfully flawed. For all you romance fans, you can't go wrong with this. I highly recommend it!
I think they call this kind of a book a 'sleeper', where it slowly creeps into popularity one review at a time until it becomes a bona fide and popular hit.
Written in 2002, published in 2005, and it just now seems to be finding its reading public.
In the last year this book was recommended repeatedly both here and at Amazon, and I am so glad to have read it.
If you like historicals with a southern charm, a small town simple kind of setting, and an emotional storyline that will pull out some tears, this one is for you.
I fell in love with all the characters both main and secondary and i needed to know how all their stories ended and the author does it with a beautiful Epilogue.This story is told in two parts the first half starting when Alix(Heroine)at just 8 yrs old when she meets Nick Anderson(hero)the son of the town drunk and the owner of a junkyard.
Alix of course comes from a nice respectable family in the town, one day while out with her granpa the Judge at a junkyard she see's welts from a beating Nick got from his dad and everything changes.
I just want to cry until I fall asleep!What a beautiful journey, I don't know how to review this book. Nick, you'll ALWAYS have a place in my heart (yeah, you'll have to share it with more guys but I promise you'll have a special place).Alix, I am kinda mad at you now but I love you anyway.Jenna, I want to read your story with (view spoiler)[ Hugh (hide spoiler)]THE CORE OF THE SWEET GUM TREE NEVER CHANGES...REVIEW TO COME if I can stop crying...["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
This story was beautiful, a true honest to the heart love story.
It broke my heart and then picked it right up again.This is a story that has sat collecting dust on my TBR shelf since joining Good reads.
On My usual quest to find a 5 star book, my friend Anna recommended that I read this with out delay, and I was not disappointed.
I cried, laughed and was utterly swept up in the story of life and love.Moving, captivating, soul searching ~ a gripping love story about second chances,and opening up your heart ...5 stars are not enough.
*Buddy read with Rachel. You can read her review here.* "No one should have to go through life with only half a heart." I usually judge my novels on the basis of: 1) how well I liked the characters, 2) how much I enjoyed reading about them, and 3) how emotional I felt on their behalf, or CEE (Characters, Enjoyment, and Emotions) for short.Characters - 3.5 stars:The characters are well-rounded and real, but the only problem is that I didn't like any of them. I didn't like Alix because I couldn't
I didn't like Jenna because she was (view spoiler)[sleeping with her best friend's boyfriend, and later, husband (hide spoiler)] and I didn't like Hugh because he was a coward.Enjoyment - 2.5 stars:For the most part, I didn't enjoy reading The Sweet Gum Tree because nearly every single event was overshadowed by uneasiness.I would have enjoyed the story a million times more if I'd been given the chance to make up my thoughts myself, rather than Alix coming along after every scene and telling me not to appreciate anything because something truly bad and tragic would be happening soon, and if she'd known that beforehand, she wouldn't have done this or would have done that, etc.
"4 Bless Her Heart Stars!"I don't know how I missed this little beauty, but I am thankful for the fabulous reading community here on GR's...it brought this to me as a gift!Keeping this short, this book was beautifully tragic.
She created a love story for the ages that started with Alix and Nick, ages 8 and 10, and progressed through ups and downs of growing up, the ins and outs of socioeconomic differences, the beauty and pain of love.
Also, I completely felt all the horror and pain for Alix but I could not quite get her either.
I don't think I need to summarise the book, it is too deep and complicated and I would not be able to stop myself from revealing spoilers if I did.
You will become emotionally invested in these characters, especially Alix and Nick, and want, and need desperately that everything will turn out for the best.
Oh good Lord, but seriously, I wanted to throttle and maim, and hurt and injure someone or something while reading it LOL.
Just when I think things are going one way...BOOM she would leave you hanging at the end of the chapter thinking WTF and have you wanting to read the next chapter to find out.
LOVED IT!! I can see why it was a favorite for so many people. I read it in one sitting, staying up until the wee hours of the morning. Even when I was done, I kept thinking about the book and all the wonderful characters, especially Nick and Alix. The story just grabs you from the first page and doesn't let go of you until the end, and even then I wished there was more. It was roller coaster ride of joy and heartache. This is one book that you can read over and over.
