https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3637.Bread_Givers
It reads as fresh and possibly as scandalously as it did in 1925.Most surprisingly, however, among its many surprises the book is also a charter for men's liberation long before the idea became a ‘thing’ in today's culture.
The contradiction is obvious to everyone but himself so he ends up participating in the same tragedy which he has inflicted on his daughters by, as a widower, marrying a woman who expects nothing but … a bread giver.
(I just read this information from Nicholson Baker’s book Human Smoke: The Beginnings of World War II, the End of Civilization.)One thing I am cocksure about Yezierska: As an immigrant, she went through the pressures of American dream in New York where she and her family ventured in to survive.
Every scene tends to carry me away.Most importantly, I really liked the book -despite that it may not be among the crème de la crème of critically acclaimed novels - because it is scattered with different themes: hypocrisy, wrong culture, feminism, Americanism, human Independence, and determination.Bread Givers is not the only one I have read dealing with immigrant life in America.
This is one of my absolute favorite books of all time. I really enjoyed her writing style. I felt connected to her characters and love the plot. I can totally relate to this story. Her dilemma to choose college over marriage. It was heartbreaking seeing the daughters marry and struggle and become controlled by their abusive husbands. Her overbearing father cracks me up but also annoys and irritates me. I found joy in watching her make her way through college and then find the love of her life. What a joy to read. I will treasure this book always.
As with any book I read through the foreword and introduction, written by Alice Kessler-Harris, and she tells of how she discovered Yezierska when she was a grad student and became entranced by her.
Line after line I found myself silently railing against the self entitled patriarch, and while I understand that much of his faults were enabled by social constructs I could not completely sympathize with his position.
Perhaps it is my American self that cries out for Sara to come among us and take her place as one of the brave and free.
After being super pissed off through the first 140 pages of the father figure's tyranny, I began to have more patience for Bread Givers.
Tension between the Old World and the New, between generations--family vs.
I mean, even when there is this message of moderation and drawing out the best in American-ness, there is not too much of that for Jewish-ness (at least in the areas of philosophy & religion) because the father just turned off his children to Judaism that badly.Finally, I must say that I would have been in love with Bread Givers when I was ten years old.
Bread Givers, by Anzia Yezierska is a compelling book, not only in its vivid descriptions of life in New York City during the 1910s-1920s, but also in its look into an Orthodox Jewish family, and its standards.
It is a coming of age story, of the youngest of four daughters, told through her narration.The familial patriarch is Rabbi Smolinksy, and his wife is Shenah, who is in awe of him, despite her nagging manner.
The book has much historical value, giving the reader a perspective on the Jewish immigrant experience, and bringing the reader insight into the life of Jews trying to assimilate into the American/New York City social structure.
Bread Givers places this common narrative in the social context of a Jewish immigrant enclave of early 1900s New York City, and stands slightly above the middle of the pack with the intensity with which Anzia Yezierska imbues the novel.It's said to be heavily autobiographical, and that's easy to believe.
The vividness with which Yezierska depicts such experiences -- the despair at the prospect of no dinner, the pride of having sold a few herring from the bottom of a barrel -- pitches one headlong into her heroine's need for a way out.
A story of culture and poverty struggle of an extremly poor, highly religious immigrant family merging into the new culture of the new world : the America.
The story took place in 1890s when the Jewish family migrated from Russian Poland to The America with dreams of quick wealth and fortune.
Then a cultural war emerge between the conservative, eastern-way of thinking father with a daughter that dreams of going to college at a time where colleges were thought to be only for men and women shouldn't be more than school teachers.I enjoyed reading every page of this book.
A true story of contention and strife !
Sara will not give in to the strictures of her tyrannical Orthodox father and goes out on her own, almost unheard of in those years.
This is not a spoiler, as the impact of the book is the life of these immigrants, the unbelievable crushing poverty and ignorance!
What I liked best is the English of the people in the book is how I remember my grandmother speaking.
"...so we could all sit down by the table and eat like people" just one of the phrases.This is a heartbreaking book, but I thank my grandparents for leaving their homes and coming to this country.
He's a great example of the self-serving nature of religious and cultural fundamentalism and how these systems of belief are incompatible with the rights and happiness of oppressed groups, especially women.
Sara escapes from the limited future and hypocritical preaching of her father by latching onto an American identity of the value of labor, education, and individual independence.
All in all, this book makes you think about the plight of women and immigrants everywhere, and how social and cultural systems need to leave room for the genuine dreams of all people who are willing to work at them.297 pages.
With a household of 5, and having a small amount of wages being used for the family, Sara strives to make some money for her family.
In the beginning of the book, Sara tried not to rebel her father at all, and be a good daughter.
With a dusty and a small room to live in, working in the morning, and studying to be a teacher at night, life is exhausting.
Sara never gave up and still tried to make the best of her life without her father always nagging her.
The style is often melodramatic--and yet the emotions are so thoroughly felt and convincing that the melodrama is transcended.
The narrative seems to be written in a naive Yiddish-inflected English...
yet that inflection drops imperceptibly away as Sara, the protagonist, educates herself out of the impoverished Jewish Lower East Side life of her early years, goes to college, and becomes a teacher.
Impoverishment in the broadest sense seems to be Yezierska's subject--whether material, emotional, or intellectual.
Sara's attempt to breathe a freer air is genuinely heroic and greatly costly.
Semi-autobiographical work by a Jewish-American female author, Anzia Yezierska.
It's a great book, although quite sad in parts .
but the ending is beautiful, and well worth all the struggle of the earlier chapters.
(I often find myself thinking about it, in fact, even though it's been a good many months since I finished it.) I could really identify with Sara's struggle to get an education and become a teacher, because that's what I want to do myself (although of course I haven't had to work nearly as hard.) It's a fascinating story, and highly recommended for anyone interested in American immigration history.
I love books about immigrants during the early 20th century. The clash of cultures is fascinating. It's nearly impossible to comprehend a father sending his kids out to work and bring home every penny to him, while he sits at home reading his religious books. He then berates his entire family on a regular basis telling them how lucky they are for having such a devout father. It's infuriating, but of course one has to understand the behavior within the context of the religion and time period.
I really liked this book. Really. I felt like I was reading a biography and a very believable one of a Jewish immigrant family and how each member adapted or failed to adapt to their new country. Also, how past habits and thoughts hindered success of some. I was fully immersed in this book. A great read.
what an unexpected book. at first it seemed as though this would be a dull read but it was very entertaining. the style and tone is so different and helps the reader remember the setting. while this is an old book, some of the themes are sadly still relevant, especially the struggle for gender equality.
I read this book more than ten years ago when my son had to read it for a history class. He enjoyed it greatly and suggested I read it, too. We had many good conversations about it and that makes me treasure it even more.
Reading of Sara's clashes with her Orthodox rabbi father, I was reminded of such modern immigration tales as Maxine Hong Kingston's The Woman Warrior and Edwidge Danticat's Breath, Eyes, Memory—in both of which, as in The Bread Givers, the female protagonist's primary point of conflict is with the traditions and assumptions of her family or culture of origin, rather than with the dominant American culture.
In this case, the daughters were expected to earn enough money to provide sustenance for the family while their father was free to "study", preach and dictate every whim of expected behavior.
You think you can make over the world?You think millions of educated old maids like you could change the world one inch?
While much progress has been made since the inception of Women's Lib, we still have further to go and many women continue to suffer in patriarchal societies.Note: Included in this book there are many interesting notes written by the daughter and historical researchers.
As with any book I read through the foreword and introduction, written by Alice Kessler-Harris, and she tells of how she discovered Yezierska when she was a grad student and became entranced by her.
Line after line I found myself silently railing against the self entitled patriarch, and while I understand that much of his faults were enabled by social constructs I could not completely sympathize with his position.
Perhaps it is my American self that cries out for Sara to come among us and take her place as one of the brave and free.
Holding all her anger in as she watches each one of her sister fall into the traps of their father, Sara plans to make a stop.
She will not and could not let her father do the same thing to her as he did to her sisters.I thought this book was an amazing book because it talks about how it is like living like an immigrant that just moved to America.
This book has many description that made me think as if I was living with Sara.
This book made me think of how culture can affect a person and why they act this way.
He uses it to deny his daughters marriages for love, views them as earners (supporting his holding up the light of the Torah) and basically sells them off.
He ends arguments with his wife with by saying "Woman!" as an imprecation and notes repeatedly that women are nothing without men.
Out of this family the fierce Sara Smolinsky claws her way, leaving the household while still single, going to college, becoming a teacher, and marrying for love.
But not even then she is not free; in the end, old Reb Smolinsky threatens to ruin even her new household by becoming so helpless that he lives with Sara and her husband.
A fascinating look into the experience of a first-generation American immigrant, torn between the familial pull of the Old World and the opportunities available in a vibrant New York.Yezierska portrays so well the toxic effect that an overbearing and religiously fundamentalist father has on his wife and daughters, blunting and destroying their chances for personal and professional success and happiness.
Sara, the youngest daughter, breaks free of her father to pursue her dreams for education.
It showed up on a lot of college reading lists during my time at university, and I've been meaning to read it for the last 20 years.
This is a very poignant story about a father stuck in his old habits and ways while his child is trying to adapt to the new.
At times, i truly wanted to understand the father.
Time and again we see father fail with his religious antics, simultaneously tearing the family apart, and i could sense that he too, knew what he was doing.
However, being the only male in the family, he couldn't, no, he didn't want to admit his failures to his family and so, he turned a blind eye to them.
Probably nothing, at least in the eyes of the father.
Not trying to change the other person, but acceptance.
This book was assigned in my English 232 class as part of our reading list for the Spring semester.
There are only two other books, that I had to read for school, that I actually liked and I'm proud to say that this book has joined the list.I was rooting for the sisters the entire time while hating Reb's guts so much.
After part one, I only really had Sara to root for.
The last chapter, to me, it seems like Sara isn't happy anymore.
She is happy, but she isn't the Sara that she wanted to be.
Overall the book was a wonderful read.

This chapter helped me to appreciate the significance of the book and why it is being considered as a classic book of Amerian literature.The classic novel of Jewish immigrants, with period photographs.This book is set in the 1920s on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Hester Street about a girl named Sara Smolinsky and all her struggles to attend college to become a teacher.
Her struggles really focus on her understanding and growth as a person with her identity and responsibility towards family, love, and the feelings of being an outsider typical of many immigrants.
I´m sure that other immigrants would be able to identify with the conflicts in the book.
If you can read about the sad lives of the Smolinsky women--at the hand of a selfish "holy man" who deserves a BAD father of the year award every year--without feeling enraged, sad, sympathetic, and wanting to go back in time and strangle a few people (men), well...I can't imagine you can.
It's an engaging read, not a happy jaunt but educational in its historic telling of New York in the 1920s through the eyes of a young Jewish girl/woman who is NOT taking it lying down.I didn't think much of the title/plot when I picked the book up, but it is a better story than you'd think, and written by Yezierska with all the nuance of the language at that time--you need "only to look on" this book to be charmed.
This book, about a Jewish girl raised in the tenements on the lower east side of Manhattan in the 20's, was written by a woman who had herself been raised in the tenements and was published in 1925. I loved the feeling that this was not a well-researched book, it was written as the author had lived it. And while it may suffer from the embellishment and sentimentality of literature from it's time, I think that only adds to it's authenticity. I really loved it.
I found the prose style difficult to get into but the book was well worth the effort! A fascinating portrayal of a Jewish daughter's struggle to find herself in the chaotic world of the 1920's where the much-vaunted wealth of the ruling classes did not reach that of the struggling working class, where women's rights were hardly recognized amongst the poor and the immigrant, and where patriarchy and religious oppression were powerful forces.
