https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36373481-the-death-of-mrs-westaway

Such a delicious, hard-to-put-down mystery.What's not to love about old dark secrets, even older darker houses, and mysterious family legacies?In The Death of Mrs. Westaway, Hal reads tarot cards on Brighton pier and struggles daily to pay the bills and find food to keep her going.
It soon becomes clear to Hal that something is not quite right, that she may indeed have a history entwined with the Westaways, and that someone in Trepassen house is determined to keep the past hidden, whatever it costs.Ware builds up to her reveals so well.
Ehhhh....is it just me or are all these Ruth Ware novels starting to sound the same? Anybody up for a game of BINGO?  Blog | Instagram | Twitter
"Centered around slow building suspense and tension you could cut with a knife, gothic thriller THE DEATH OF MRS.
Ms. Ware has been a highly coveted name in recent years and for good reason; whether you have read her books from the beginning or are just jumping into her scene, you'll note that she writes a gripping novel with memorable characters and breathtaking atmosphere.
The Death Of Mrs. Westaway was the perfect example of such a tale, and the oppressive setting ramps up the unsettled feeling in the reader from the very first page.
NEVER BELIEVE YOUR OWN LIES.    The Death of Mrs. Westaway is a cleverly crafted atmospheric mystery fueled by deceit. Since I was not a fan of The Lying Game, I was hesitant to read this, but I am so glad I did!   Struggling tarot card reader, Hal, aka Harriet Westaway, finds herself in a moral quandary when she receives a letter naming her as a beneficiary in her grandmother’s will. She believes a mistake has been made as her grandparents died long before she was born. Even though she knows
At the estate, she meets her “uncles” and uses her keen observation skills to learn more about the creepy family that inhabited Trepassen.
When Hal realizes that she has a legit family connection to these Westaways, she begins to dig for more information which leads her into grave danger.The mystery surrounding Hal’s past kept me intrigued, but it was really Hal’s character that kept me turning pages.
She is often referred to be as being mousy or weak, but her character exemplifies the notion that those who observe are more powerful than those who need to be the center of attention.Trepassen House also plays a large role.
This is one of those books that relies on conversations not had, coincidences, misunderstandings or misexplainations, and a serious dose of people seemingly deliberately taking the least likely option necessitated by the evidence.
If, while reading, I have to whisper 'are you serious?' to myself repeatedly as I follow the main character's journey, it is not a good thing.
The author seems to have thought out a story then said to herself, how can I make this needlessly messy so it looks cleverer?
One thing that Ruth Ware does so well in this book (and in her previous work) is to write about characters that are cut off from society in some way.
What I love about the way Ruth Ware isolates characters is how it makes you forget the noise of the rest of the world.
The letter informs Hal that she is set to receive some inheritance from the late Mrs. Westaway, her grandmother.
I also loved the opening chapters on Hal’s work in the Tarot booth, and the people and settings she interacts with.
21 year old Harriet 'Hal' Westaway lost her mother in a hit and run car accident, and took up the mantle of becoming a tarot reader at the Brighton Pier.
This is a story of a dysfunctional family, sibling conflicts and rivalry, intrigue, legacies and buried secrets from the past.Placed in the attic room, Hal faces hostility from all quarters, apart from Ezra.
Hal embarks on a search for the truth aided by her trusty tarot cards, as she wonders what her mother's involvement with the family is.
She is brave and courageous in the face of the dark Trepassen House and all the secrets held within its walls.
Mystery / thriller novels fall short for me a bit when they rely solely on interesting over likable characters and I appreciate that Ware didn't fall into the unreliable narrator trope here.
Ware did an exceptional job of showing how things snowballed with Hal, and despite making a semi-shifty choice in trying to defraud this family, you could empathize and understand her plight.
This read less like a mystery and more like a family drama but there wasn't enough back story to understand the intricacies at play.
Anyone interested in slow burn mysteries, family sagas and atmospheric, gothic vibes would likely enjoy this story.
These fantastic female authors constructed some of the best psychological suspense novels ever written, but they aren't quickly devoured like a lot of this genre's current output.
This is by far the best of Ware's novels.
WESTAWAY is the book I have been waiting for Ware to create!!
It is an immediate classic and the story of mistaken identity is an absolute perfect fit to Ware's charming, gothic style.Loved the book, but I did not enjoy the audiobook version.
Also, Ware uses the old diary device prominently in this story and I was confused so many times while listening (is this now?
Ms. Ware has again written a twisty, dark, atmospheric thriller, this time throwing family, inheritance and sibling rivalry into the brew.Hal Westaway is still reeling from the death of her mother three months previously.
The house lends a lot of creepiness to the story, including the terrible attic room which Hal is now sleeping in, with it’s bolts on the outside of the door and it’s message scratched into the window.Most of the family, however, embraces her as the daughter of their long lost sister and seem ready to accept her into the fold.
When Harriet- aka- Hal, receives a mysterious letter informing her that she’s been named in her grandmothers will, and stands to receive a substantial sum of money, she knows immediately a mistake has been made.
Facing a moral dilemma, with her back against a wall, Hal decides to take a chance and test the water by attending the funeral of her ‘grandmother’ – Mrs. Westaway.
The old house, the creepy housekeeper, the gathering of the suspects, and the moral issues are all elements I love in a good mystery/suspense novel.
I can’t really explain why this book didn’t resonate with me, but I just couldn’t get into it.
“Seven for a secret, never to be told.”  This was my first Ruth Ware book, but sadly it wasn’t a hit with me. But looking at my friend’s reviews, I do think I might be in the minority with my feelings. I will say that the atmosphere was eerie and perfect. I will also say that the writing and prose was beautiful. But I’m not someone who reads a lot of thrillers or mysteries, but even I could see all the reveals in this one coming a mile away.   “One for Joy. One for love. One for the future.”
She has had to take up the mantle of her mother’s psychic readings and tarot spreads for the community, making ends meet, and barely being able to hide from the loan sharks who she received money from when she was desperate.
Hal feels like she is good enough at reading people, and telling them what they want to hear, that she might actually stand a chance at convincing them that she is a long lost relative, deserving of a fortune.
Like, Hal just ended up being another, typical, stupid character in another typical, stupid murder mystery.
First and foremost, I'm happy to say that RUTH WARE IS BACK! I've been a fan of Ruth Ware since Day 1. In a Dark, Dark Wood was such a good debut light-mystery novel and The Woman in Cabin 10 was one of my favorite mystery novels of all time. After my disappointment with The Lying Game, I still was hopeful for  The Death of Mrs. Westaway . Ruth Ware went back to her roots with  The Death of Mrs. Westaway  and created a robust, multifaceted, and fascinating story. Seriously guys, I read this 360+
Harriet (Hal) Westaway is a young twenty-something year old tarot card reader in Brighton, England.
Desperate, Hal decides that she can fraudulently try and claim this inheritance as her own—she's been conning innocent people for years as a tarot card reader and this will just be another gig for her.
, I'm going to have to tell you how this story differs from Ware's other works.
At its core, The Death of Mrs. Westaway provides a lot more atmospheric undertones than anything she's ever produced.
After reading the synopsis, throw everything you think about Ruth Ware novels out the window.
(3.5) The gothic ambience in the Trespassen house was perfect for all the family secrets.You'll spend the whole book trying to figure if/how the main character is related to everyone and who's lying!A great read! I received an ARC from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
WESTAWAY by RUTH WARE is a slow-building, dark, atmospheric, and gothic mystery that had me somewhat engaged, entertained, and interested enough throughout this book to keep me turning those pages but I was never truly invested in this story though.When reading a thriller &/or suspense novel I like to be able to work out the why and how and be pleasantly surprised by the little pieces of puzzles that were left along the way that I either missed or didn’t think were important to the twists or reveals.
Read with the Traveling Friends group, this made for a fun discussion as we tried to piece together the clues and solve the mystery.And what a twisty, fantastic story it was!
all elements that I love in a tale that oozes a menacing gothic atmosphere.The story opens with 21-year-old Hal, who was left all alone in the world 3 years ago after her mother’s death.
Hal hops on a train to attend the reading of the will and ends up staying with the Westaway family.
I went into this hoping for gothic atmosphere that would pull me into the story and that's exactly what I got.Our main character, Harriet 'Hal' Westaway, is a young woman down on her luck since the unfortunate hit-and-run death of her beloved mother.
Truly a lot of fun to read.I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who likes some gothic vibes weaved throughout their mystery/thrillers.
I had this same feeling while reading, The Woman in Cabin 10, another one of Ruth Ware's books but luckily, for me, the introductory portion of this story didn't drag quite as much as that one.
(c)Q:I will never feel sad again, in spite of everything, in spite of the storm that I know is coming.
(c)Q:Hal had the promenade to herself, the flashing lights of the pier the only sign of life, apart from the gulls wheeling and crying over the dark restless waters of the channel.
This is what I have been waiting all my life to feel, this is what those girls at school used to talk about, this is what the songs mean, and the poems were written for.
And I am no longer sure if I was right.
Harriet Westaway, who goes by Hal, ekes out a living as a tarot card reader on the pier in Brighton.
However, the deceased Mrs. Westaway isn't her grandmother - but does that really have to matter?Hal thinks that maybe her years of reading tarot cards will help her pull off a grand deception and walk away with the inheritance money.
So, she's off to Mrs. Westaway's creepy ramshackle estate and the dark secrets hidden there...This was an eerie, suspenseful, and well-written Gothic mystery.
Disclosure: I received a copy of this book from the publisher through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
While you still can...This book follows the story of Hal; She has no family, she lives alone in a decaying flat, she makes her money by tarot reading during the day, she's mainly broke and she owes a lot of money to some loan sharks.
During Hal's time at Trepassen she meets a whole host of a dysfunctional family, she learns more of the strange situation and the inheritance at the centre of it.
However, I found Hal very fascinating due to the knowledge I gained about tarot reading.
This book revolves around twenty-one year old Harriet Westaway “Hal”, who took over her mother’s tarot card reading business after she passed away three years ago.
One day, she receives a mysterious letter advising that she has been left a substantial inheritance from Mrs. Westaway, a grandmother she has never heard of.
Hal travels to the Trepassen House estate where she meets the family of Mrs. Westaway.
Ruth Ware kept the tension, mystery and suspense building as each page turned, all the while keeping the dark and unnerving atmosphere brooding.
Not my favorite Although there were many things I liked about this one, it did not live up to my expectations. I just loved Woman in Cabin 10, but didn't really enjoy  The Lying Game.  I'll try to explain why this fell flat for me.I thought the premise was mysterious and intriguing - a letter about an inheritance that was sent to the wrong person ( I was imagining all kinds of sinister scenarios).  The mystery turned into a messed-up family drama with confusing side stories and was lacking susp
Not my favorite
Although there were many things I liked about this one, it did not live up to my expectations.
I just loved Woman in Cabin 10, but didn't really enjoy
The Lying Game.
The mystery turned into a messed-up family drama with confusing side stories and was lacking suspense.I did enjoy the gothic undertones and the mansion, but just felt that they were never really utilized in creating the dark mystery I was craving.I found it too slow and not so clever, but many enjoyed this one.
So read all the reviews and you may find it works for you!
One Group / Two different Coulees Norma and I started off lost in a coulee with five of our Traveling Sisters.
We all started off intrigued and really liked our interesting main character tarot card reader Hal. We all soon grew to like housekeeper Mrs Warren who really gave a mysterious creepy feeling to the story as well for us.
We were engaged enough in the story to hold our attention till the end, however, we just gave up trying to put the pieces together.
3.5 stars.The cover of “The Death of Mrs. Westaway” is perfect to draw the reader into Ruth Ware’s new book.
The gothic sense of creepiness from the cover is further enhanced by the evocative descriptions of the crumbling old mansion Mrs. Westaway lived in.
Curious and in desperate financial conditions she meets with the Grandmother's sons and is soon entangled in an elaborate web as she tries to discover what possible connection she could have to them.
As successive layers of the web are unspun I found myself just as baffled as Hal about those connections.
Ware has written a book that draws readers in and never lets them go.
I don’t read a lot of mystery books but the premise of The Death of Mrs. Westaway really intrigued me.Hal, a struggling tarot card reader who is in financial trouble, receives a mysterious letter describing an inheritance she is owed from a distant relative, her grandmother, Mrs. Westaway.
I had no trouble picturing the gothic, creepy scene of Mrs. Westaway’s estate due to the great descriptions included in the story, which was a slow burn, yet I enjoyed the build.
I can appreciate setting the scene appropriately but feel like the story didn’t really pick up to the height of the mystery until the final third of the book.

In addition to its brooding atmosphere and the ‘mistaken-identity’ story, the novel also gives us a heroine of real depth in Hal. Hal, despite her many questionable decisions, is a likeable character.
The story started off slow and I was expecting it to pick up as it went along (and it did… right towards the end) but I felt it was a bit slow for a mystery.
In every Agatha Christie’s mystery, apart from the atmosphere, we get a bunch of creepy characters, where almost everyone is a suspect.
🖤This is going to be a very biased review because I love all of this author’s books.
Hal (or Harriet) is a tarot-card reader who receives a letter bequeathing her an inheritance.
She knows she is not the person the letter is addressed to but she could definitely benefit from claiming this money.Soon, Hal heads to the address on the letter and what she finds and who she meets is not what she expected at all!Wow, this was an excellent novel mostly set in Trepassen, an English countryside mansion.
Overall, I loved it!!!* I read this book with the Traveling Friends.
Having received a mysterious letter from solicitor Robert Treswick, Hal as the "assumed granddaughter" of the deceased needed to pay her respects as well as claim her bequest.
Upon arrival at Trepassen and needing to stay until the reading of the will, Hal was shown to the attic room which contained bars on the windows and two locks bolted on the outside of the attic room door."The Death of Mrs. Westaway" was chock full of deception.
Kudos to Ruth Ware.Thank you Gallery, Scout Press and Net Galley for the opportunity to read and review "The Death of Mrs. Westaway".
An attorney requests Hal's presence at the funeral of her recently deceased grandmother at the Trepassen estate.
But hey, who could pass on a possible inheritance that may lift Hal out of her valley of debt?Ruth Ware presents another storyline showcasing a female main character at her wit's end as she did in The Woman in Cabin 10.
It is her mother's Tarot cards and pier business that Hal steps into after her death.
She seems to always be on the receiving end of the decisions made by others.Ware wraps her story in the gloom and doom of the Trepassen estate.
My second book from Ruth Ware, and I.
Halfway through the book, it took a weird turn that killed the brakes and I legit thought it would fall to a complete stop, but I'm glad it never did.
The pacing was a little....disjointed in my opinion; I honestly thought this book would be benefit more from cutting a couple chapters off and expanding more on the ending.
The mystery was really good and the whole book itself was so moody.
This slow burn mystery really took me by surprise and I'm glad I got a solid little thriller from Ms. Ware.
