https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23919.The_Complete_Stories_and_Poems
The best ones, for me, were the ones where the narrator laments a lost love on the cusp of insanity: these stories were simply beautiful.
It makes the man realise that this is life, not some whimsical world where nothing bad ever happens.
The man in the poem has lost “Lenore.” But, what is this Lenore?
It is also rather significant that the man is persecuted only by the natural world.
The finality of the phrase “nevermore” is nothing short of maddening reality for our lost man.
The narrator of this marvellous short story experiences a whole host of emotions and mental states after his loss.
How could I not love this book?
Shortly after reading Poe's complete works as a teenager, my family was transferred to Fort Monroe in southern Virginia.
Pulling out this book and reading it in the very space where Poe had suffered through depression and anxiety was exhilarating.
While I realized the morbid nature of my glee, it somehow seemed appropriate as I lay awake at nights praying to hear that telltale ticking.As an adult, I have come to realize that my love of Poe's horror comes from the fact that he focuses not on the gore on modern horror, but rather on the shocking indelicacy of human potential.
I'm going for a 3.5 stars.
Either way, I'm just going to list the stories and poems I did enjoy.
Although, I can't read my handwriting so now I have to go through the book.
Duh, if I can still read my handwriting.
Hop-FrogI basically liked all of the Tales of Mystery and Horror as you can see.
I didn't really like much else but some Poems.
The Poems1.
The Haunted PalaceUggg, those are not in order.
I had a hard time reading my writing and finding them on the contents pages.
Who cares if they are in order, it's my OCD.
This is one of the only books I have left that belonged to my grandfather and it's one of the best. It contains stories and poems by Edgar Allan Poe. Sections include: Tales of Mystery and Horror, Humor and Satire, Flights and Fantasies, The Narrative of A. Gordon Pym of Nantucket, and many poems including Annabel Lee, Alone, and my favorite, A Dream Within a Dream. 5*****
Even worse was Ralph Waldo Emerson's dismissal of Poe as the "jingle man." These writers (whom I otherwise admire) thought of Poe as immature, but I think they make the classic mistake of confusing the writer with his subject.
Poe's characters are often high-strung and immature in their way, but Poe is never without an ironic distance from them.
Many of the narrators of his tales are classic "unreliable narrators," and Poe wants his readers to see them as such--to see behind the masks they don--and it's there that his tales gather most force.
Combining elements of romance and horror, Poe wove a suspenseful story focusing on the mental health of a protagonist who has lost the love of his life.The Fall of the House of UsherThe Fall of the House of Usher is a story I don't remember a lot of, so I'll definitely re-read it soon.A Descent into the Maelstrom (3/5 stars)With the creepy title and the horrifying premise - the narrator talking about a fishing trip with his two brothers which ended in chaos and turmoil years ago - I expected this story to be a little more frightening and engaging than it ultimately ended up to be.
Again in fancy I behold thee!”Self-Denial and Confession“The Tell-Tale Heart” is another story in which the drive to confess to a crime prevails.In “The Domain of Arnheim”, Poe returns to the difference between reason and the imagination:“In truth, while that virtue which consists in the mere avoidance of vice appeals directly to the understanding, and can thus be circumscribed in rule, the loftier virtue, which flames in creation, can be apprehended in its results alone.
It seemed to have been constructed for no especial use within itself, but formed merely the interval between two of the colossal supports of the roof of the catacombs, and was backed by one of their circumscribing walls of solid granite.Even now, due to their narrative power and chilling macabre storylines, such tales as The Fall of the House of Usher, The Pit and the Pendulum, The Masque of the Red Death, The Murders in the Rue Morgue and many others remain unforgettable and matchless.Ever since cave man has been sitting by his primitive hearth huddling close to the fire scared of every shadow we still keep our primordial fear.
And to win over this fear reading dark tales is a great pleasure.
The Master himselfIt was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea,That a maiden there lived
The Master himselfIt was many and many a year ago,	In a kingdom by the sea,That a maiden there lived
I'm not sure how screwed up Mr. Poe really was as I have read that a lot of the criticisms of him were exaggerated.
But screwed up or not the man could write.
Unlike the madness we find in H.P.Lovecraft Poe writes the actual man's madness.
Poe originated plots and plot points that were used and reused across the years (The Purloined Letter).I was introduced to Edgar Allen Poe when I was around 11 or 12 years old by a teacher at a small school in Tennessee (thank you Ms. Arnold) and have read him often ever since.
Pe mine unul m-a făcut să plutesc în balonul improvizat de Hans Phaall, m-a făcut să privesc Terra de la înălţime şi mi-a stimulat imaginaţia până dincolo de hotarele pe care credeam eu că le avea.Desigur, povestea este prin excelenţă neverosimilă (căci distanţa dintre Pământ şi lună este totuşi considerabilă şi nu poate fi parcursă cu un balon), dar textul trebuie cântărit literar, nu ştiinţific (cu toate că Poe dovedeşte o excelentă erudiţie).
Not many people outside of literary study or detective fiction fandom realize that the character of Sherlock Holmes was inspired by Poe's Dupin.
This is not always the case: his Ligeia retains his poetic narrowness, but his detective stories have a gentleness and wit found nowhere else in his oeuvre.The three Dupin stories helped to inspire detective fiction, using suspense and convoluted mystery to tantalize and challenge the reader.
They are studies in the careful use of language to develop mood, character, and drive--even in a sparse plot.
Of course no discussion of Poe's works would be complete without s mention of The Masque of the Red Death.
The Assignation may be the most tragic short love story I've ever read, and I did not expect that from him.
I had no idea Poe had such a sense of humor considering most of his writing is so morose.Oh the poems, the poems!
But then I read The Valentine, a bit of a coded piece, which doesn't surprise me in the least that Poe would have written.
At last, my favorite Poe poem-The Bells.
'' If I felt any emotion at all, it was a kind of chuckling satisfaction at the cleverness I was about to display in extricating myself from this dilemma; and I never, for a moment, looked upon my ultimate safety as a question susceptible of doubt''♫ "He finally made me a low bow and departed, wishing me, in the language of the archbishop in "Gil Bias," beaucoup de bonheur et un peu plus de bon sens"My favorite quotes about Edgar Allan Poe: (there are a lot, but I found them very interesting, wr
His voice was modulated with astonishing skill, and his large and variably expressive eyes looked repose or shot fiery tumult into theirs who listened, while his own face glowed, or was changeless in pallor, as his imagination quickened his blood or drew it back frozen to his defined, in terms of utmost simplicity and clearness, he rejected the forms of customary logic, and by a crystalline process of accretion, built up his ocular demonstrations in forms of gloomiest and ghastliest grandeur, or in those of the most airy and delicious beauty, so minutely and distinctly, yet so rapidly, that the attention which was yielded to him was chained till it stood among his wonderful creations, till he himself dissolved the spell, and brought his hearers back to common and base existence, by vulgar fancies or exhibitions of the ignoblest passion.""He was at all times a dreamer-dwelling in ideal realms-in heaven or hell-peopled with the creatures and the accidents of his brain.
I wish I had loved every page of this collection, but I didn't. Anyway for every boring atory there was a great one and some of them are absolutely incredible! Poe definitely a tormented mind, but a clever one too.
While I haven't read the entire book, I have ventured through most of his works. I think Poe makes it safe to say that the usage of opium is sure to create some interesting situations.
Works that deal with the strangeness of truth include the humorous “How to Write a Blackwood Article” (one of the two comedic pieces involving the celebrated Signora Psyche Zenobia, one of Poe’s most eccentric characters) and, most significantly, the darkly humorous “The Thousand-and-Second Tale of Scheherazade,” which picks up with the 1,002nd tale of Scheherazade, from One Thousand and One Nights, who tells a story to the king which he finds so ridiculous and unbelievable (though the piece is filled with footnotes from Poe demonstrating the veracity of such points) that he decides not to spare Scheherazade’s life, as One Thousand and One Nights would have us believe.
It could be summed up in a sentence like, "I read Edgar Allan Poe, he is scary but a good writer." but why would I take the time to write that, Because those who can change things in writing to make them more interesting or engrosses the mind with detail is worth reading, in my book (Punn intended).
That is why I like Poe, quite a lot.
And I didn't feel ready to look like one of those people but I can't help it.
Like in the telltale heart, how you felt that it made sense for him to kill the old man.
Having read all the well-known stories and poems, I dug into this tome with anticipation, expecting many of his more obscure works to be fully as good.
And I much enjoyed (re)reading them.But the rest of this volume is filled with some of the dullest writings imaginable.
Impenetrable essays on the nature and rationale of poetry.It surprises me that the same author can write a few stories that are so good, and many that are very bad, with almost no middle ground between.My favorite stories remain The Facts in the Case of M.
Valdemar and The Cask of Amontillado; as for the poems, it amazes me that The Raven is so good, and everything else so bad.
They're all filled with madmen, murder, jealousy, betrayal, revenge, magic, death, hatred, ghosts, haunted mansions, talking dead, hypnotists, and jesters - all the elements that went on to make up the horror genre that exists today.
It's sing-song quality is what keeps it so popular and its legendary images of a demented Raven saying "Nevermore", and entrancing lines "Once upon a midnight dreary...", make it a poem that people will willingly read, and keep returning to, until the end of time.As with the stories, few other poems manage to reach the heights of "Raven" but there are a few gems in the poems, some excellent lines and images such as in "Lenore", "The Conqueror Worm", "Spirits of the Dead" and my favourite "Annabel Lee".Poe's stories are a must-read for all fans of literature, whether horror, gothic or otherwise, as they're not only fascinating and well-written but are also, most importantly, great fun to read.
Whilst others of my generation were developing the herd mentality and lavishing their time on football, chopper bikes and the Bay City Rollers, I was poring over The Pit and the Pendulum, The Fall of the House of Usher and The Masque of the Red Death.
Poe’s castles and dungeons, maelstroms and cities under the sea are like Kafka’s Castle: in the mind, and all the more terrifying for that.He draws heavily on the unconscious, is one of those in whom the divide between that and its conscious counterpart is a very permeable one to say the least, and you can see how he had such an influence on Baudelaire and just about every modern writer of horror.
"Some Words With a Mummy" is the one that does it for me. Everything else is just exceptional or pretty good. Can't go wrong with Poe. -bb
Poe's the kind of dude to write an incredibly long monotonous shitpost of pseudo-engineering to convince readers of a magazine that some dude actually made it to the moon in a hot air balloon; and then proceed to get butthurt about another writer perpetuating a similar balloon hoax which got far more popular than his to where he wrote 15 of pages of notes following the story to explain how he had the best most scientifically accurate hoax and that the other guy was a loser.
Poe podría ser interpelado erróneamente.
Anteriormente al realizar el análisis de algunos relatos en el que el desarrollo tiene rasgos de los que hemos tocado; centralidad eh imprevisibilidad compuesta a la complacencia consciente o inconsciente con lo esperado, perceptibilidad por los sentidos.
A la vez una intensidad misteriosa que necesita de condiciones puntuales y de una capacidad para producir un efecto que va mas allá de los limites de la ficción
It is interesting to see the power that Poe's writings hold over readers today when other writers with long narratives and little dialogue, such as Lovecraft, are considered difficult to read.
Many of the narrative writers were in love with writing forms and the richness of the English language.
Poe inserted himself into his tales and poems and communicated the experience to us.The richness of emotion that the writer touches is truly marvelous.
He places himself completely in the most fantastic situations, and then responds on paper as if he was living out the events.
An excellent compilation of all of Poe's works - short stories, novella, and poetry.
His stunning prose and emphasis on creative, clear imagery has set him aside as a master to be remembered.
Although the writing style is rather old-fashioned and high formal, it is mesmerizing how well he played with words to create masterpieces.
His poetry remains my favorite of the pieces, he had a knack for conveying powerful imagery in little words.His detective stories were not really my style, but his horror and gothic themed tales riveted me - I was delighted especially with the Masque of the Red Death, my personal favorite.
Que puedo decir de Edgar Allan Poe que no se haya sido ya? Es increíble y fascinante, llena de matices y de sorpresas. Una obra magnífica que te estremece y te convierte en parte de un humo literario misterioso en medio de sus obras. Altamente recomendable.
[image error]
This was a birthday gift to me from a college friend because he knew I had enjoyed Edgar Allan Poe in high school.
Although we write in different genres, E.A. Poe and I have much in common.
Because I began reading his poetry and stories at a young age, the macabre, the confusing, and the crimes were probably the worst thing I could have been reading then.
I miss being able to jump in and read a little bit of Poe to clear my head and move on to other writing or reading.
But as much as I have read, I absolutely love Poe. If you can come to grasp his crude writing style and place it into his life and the events within, you will most likely find his style of writing as wonderful and beautiful as I do.
I would love to read a history of the life of Poe additionally since his work is very reflective of his life in comparison to his contemporaries who focused more on literature geared for such things as politics and religion.
