https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/762806.Gorky_Park
Renko is stubborn with a sly talent for screwing up the plans of powerful people, and there’s a great worn down but not beaten element to the character.Smith also had excellent timing when he created Renko because through the next several decades he could use his detective to give us mysteries that are also glimpses of what it’s been like for Russians through the fall of the Soviet Union and the aftermath today.
‘If you don’t know where the road goes, you shouldn’t be on it.'” — Arkady RenkoWhen Gorky Park was first published in 1981, it was immediately banned in the then Soviet Union because of its apt depiction of everyday Soviet life.
And they would be right to be afraid; the murky past of a close relative, one whisper from a vengeful neighbor, or even owning a Bible would be enough to get one into trouble with the KGB.Detective Arkady Renko lives a simple life.
I’ve already purchased the next book in the series, grateful that unlike Peter Hoeg’s book, Renko lives on for another seven books.
Here, the sense of place is as compelling (with weather as miserable); the plot and writing, a lot better.Arkady Renko is a great character.
He is assigned to the case of three corpses found shot and mutilated in a famous park, and it seems like he keeps working on it for no reason other than the fact that it violated his personal sensibility that it's uncouth to murder people in a place where people come to relax, commiserate with friends, maybe do some ice skating.The plot is pretty complicated, as you'd expect, but the trappings (you'll see what I did there in a second) are pretty fun.
I believe that I attempted to read the book once before, perhaps shortly after it's publication, but did not finish.
The author demonstrated talent in describing scenes in the story whether it is in Moscow, a Russian dacha, or a dingy New York hotel room you could visualize it and feel as though you were right there.
Other times though it seemed to drag and I just wanted it to end so I could move on to the next book.
Maybe in 1981 before the collapse of the Soviet Union I would have been more deeply into the book.
I am very forgiving when it comes to getting things wrong about USSR; after all, not everyone lived there and not everyone knows the culture.
I was able to forgive the fact the the author seems to think that Moscow is located at the north pole.
Also couldn't forgive the idea that kgb would have to cover up killing people accused in treason.
I had a family member die because he was a suspect.
I knew many others who's family members die the same way.
In fact, racism is something USSR used in their propoganda against the US.
Martin Cruz Smith's novels featuring Chief Investigator Arkady Renko have long been favourites of mine.
As there hasn't been a new Renko book since Tatiana in 2013 I thought I'd return (for the fourth time) to the beginning.
Yet again I'm still thrilled by the excellent plotting, the well drawn characters & the author's ability to create a fascinating portrait of Russia.Gorky Park is not only one of my favourite novels it is also one of my all time favourite films.
When I was young I had the film poster on my bedroom wall & I still listen to James Horner's excellent soundtrack today.
Oh, it's a fine inventive entertainment for a mystery, with a lot of twists and near death escapes, tons of corrupt cops and officials, and so many betrayals and hidden motives I am amazed the body count wasn't higher considering the undrained swamps that Renko wades through in not just Russia, but also in New York City.
In Russia, many different official police, prosecutor and spy departments want Renko to not really solve the murders of the three bodies found in Moscow's Gorky Park, but instead they each want him to say he solved the crimes in the way each department head wants.

Martin Cruz Smith’s Gorky Park (1981) is the first book in series set in the Soviet Union and featuring Arkady Renko, a homicide investigator for the Moscow city police.
And that kind of attention is something Arkady Renko does not desire.One of the best things about Smith’s book is his portrait of the Soviet bureaucracy: suspicious and hypocritical, deceptive and self-deceptive, filled with outmoded beliefs and threadbare traditions, always ready to betray the loyal and the naive for the good of “the institution.” Now what exactly did Smith’s description of this society remind me of?
First read more than thirty years ago, this novel held up well on a recent second reading. It's an excellent police procedural/thriller with a compelling narrative, strong characterizations and fine descriptive detail of crime, forensics and detection in Moscow toward the end of the Soviet Era.
Arkady says he will do so only if Major Pribluda of the KGB hands over all of the taped conversations of foreigners for January and February that year.
Meanwhile, while checking the crime scene again at night Arkady disturbs a man with an American accent who attacks him.When listening to the tapes at the Ukraina of a party held by the Americans, Arkady recognises the angry voice of Irina Asanova discussing Chekhov.
Russians won wars because they threw themselves before tanks, which was not the right mentality for a master criminal.This is the third of the Arkady Renko novels I have read, and I look forward to tracking down the others in the series.
There is no "happy ending" here, no neat story arc tied with a bow and concluded in a satisfactory way.My favorite part of this novel was Cruz Smith's ability to portray the Russian psyche, and there is nothing that does this better than humor and insinuations (that may be lost on those who are not familiar with the Eastern Block machinery-and Cruz Smith, bless his soul, is not explicit-explicating to a "western" audience the intangibles of life beyond the Iron Curtain would only destroy the novel's realism).
If only there were Russian men like Arkady Renko! What a hero. Martin Cruz Smith, despite making up an implausibly wonderful Russian man in Arkady Renko, just totally nails some things about Soviet Russia. I get nostalgic even thinking about it.Got a plane ride coming up? If you haven't read this - GO NOW! BUY IT! I promise you won't regret it.
In 1981, when Smith published Gorky Park, the Berlin Wall had yet to fall, and Glasnost wasn't yet a twinkle in Gorbachev's eye.
Perhaps in that climate, nearly 40 years into the Cold War, a thriller set largely behind the Curtain, exploring how the Red half lived, was enough to titilate an audience.
Gorky Park is a messy narrative at best, a willy-nilly hodgepodge of Soviet cliches at worst.
Most disappointing is the lack of mystery in this thriller, as the bad guy (who, incidentally, wears a black hat) gets identitified early on, and thereafter simply pops up with all the convenience of a jack-in-the-box bogeyman.
After an intriguing start the novel drifted and became very drawn out. At one point I found that I didn't really care what was happening and very nearly gave up. It did get better and I appreciate that my point of view is different to many others but the end of the book was very welcome.
Stealthy Police Procedural set in Moscow prior to Perestroika and Dissolution of U.S.S.R.Back in the U.S.S.R.: Well the Ukraine girls really knock me outThey leave the West behindAnd Moscow girls make me sing and shoutThat Georgia's always on my mindLennon-McCartney, 1968****Arkady Renko is chief homicide investigator for Moscow's Soviet militsiya (the city's civilian police force).
The detective's weakness is his love, of course, for a beautiful Soviet dissident who'll do nearly anything to get out of the USSR.What sets this suspenseful 1981 novel apart is Martin Cruz Smith's meticulous portrayal, in vivid and stunning detail, of day-to-day life in the Soviet Union prior to perestroika and the Soviet Union's dissolution.
While I didn't always love the experience of reading this novel, I am glad to have read it, if only for the fictional glimpse of Soviet Russia during the Cold War. I didn't enjoy how drawn out the book became after such an intriguing start.
But then, I was only expecting a police procedural set in Russia.
This novel was much, much more -- a cat and mouse game, a story of fugitives and bandits, a view of Soviet "justice," a story of torture, a social commentary on America by a Russian narrator, a political thriller, and a love story.
He is called to a murder scene in Gorky Park, Moscow's favourite place to forget the world for a little, where three bodies with their faces cut off and their fingertips sheared have lain for several months.
But while this seems the perfect excuse to shunt the case over to the KGB, Renko still is stuck with it.Gorky Park is a book about power, about what people who have it are like and what they get to do to people who don't.
Great as always. I've read this book several times over the years and it is always better than the last time. I great beginning to the character and the series.
Having lived in Moscow for over a year towards the end of the Soviet Union's existence and visited on many occasions, I was impressed by the degree of realism Cruz Smith conveyed.
In all, I reckon the novel is about 150 pages too long and the story could have been told in a much more succinct fashion.Finally, although I did say the writing is beautiful at times, at others it's downright clunky.For some reason, the following bizarre sentence from the book jumped out at me and now won't leave me alone: "They ate fried sausages, bread and coffee".
A homicide investigator is forced to work a three body homicide in Gorky Park.
The KGB enters the crime scene and immediately makes the CID that investigated the Jeffrey MacDonald murders look more like the professionals of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation than the Keystone Kops.
The KGB then decides after destroying the scene that the bodies are not part of any foreign plot to destroy Mother Russia.The chief investigator deals with the creme de la creme of Russian society.
A well written police procedural, thriller that has stood the test of time. Arkady Renko is a charismatic character, patriotic, intelligent, intense, but also flawed and strangely vulnerable. He's a good police officer trying to investigate a horrific crime within the boundaries of a corrupt and rigid system.It's the setting, the glimpse of Russian life, politics and culture, along with Arkady Renko that make this atmospheric and quite intricate story so compelling. Well worth a look at.
Alas, I'm again the outlier.
Highly enjoyable crime thriller.
Engaging main character (Arkady Renko), unusual backdrop (pre-fall of Berlin wall Moscow) complete with shadowy KGB complications, equally shadowy Americans of various sorts, Russian dissidents etc.
All making for a twisty-turny time for Arkady in investigating a triple-murder in Gorky Park.
Romance, action and some gritty "dialogue confrontation" scenes with other main characters.
mild spoiler:(view spoiler)[the fact that you find out who did it fairly early on means that the focus shifts to why and also if/how they will be caught...
This would've been 5 stars if I'd been reading crime fiction back in 1981!
A 1980 Russian investigator is directed to solve a crime. He'd rather dump it on the KGB; it smells political. But no, they're leaving him holding the bag...The mystery is too complicated. The plot takes too many irrelevant turns. The romance makes no sense. And yet...perfect. Not a typical mystery plot at all; much more like a shamamic journey than anything else. I loved the ending.
The second part was a surprise (it wasn't in the movie version) & one of the best parts of the book for me.
Of the things I liked, one was the starting premise of the investigation that Arkady Renko initiates after finding the dead bodies in Gorky Park -- as chief investigator of the Moscow militia, Renko only wants to lead the investigation to a point where he can happily hand over the case to the KGB.
The scene I remember best is the one where Renko is sitting on a Ferris wheel in the park and ruminating about his childhood -- I thought the writing captured the moment as well as all of Renko's life and ambitions and hopes.On the flip side, the mystery itself was not something that I liked a whole lot.
There used to be a German copy on our shelves, a book my husband actually read (smart guy but doesn't read much fiction), but I unloaded it a long time ago without a thought since its popularity turned me off.
So maybe it was a lucky thing to have read this 30 years after its publication with obvious hindsight and with a romantic longing for a certain youth that makes even the Cold War seem enticing.
The new emigrés can't cook at all; they don't even know what good food is.
A murder mystery story mostly set in Moscow.
Arkady Renko of the Moscow militia sets out to investigate.
It turns out this case is far more complicated than usual and Renko soon finds himself entangled in a complex web of conspiracy, corruption, espionage, murder and the smuggling of s— [spoiler removed].I know the 1983 film base on the novel quite well.
Reading was enjoyable anyway because I could concentrate more on the characters and their motivations than on the actual story.
Will I read the other books in the Arkady Renko series?
He's an intriguing character as far as Moscow police officers go.
I've just looked this up after being reminded of it, this was one of my favourites at the time, when I was heavily into espionage novels.I really enjoyed this book so much that I couldn't wait to see the movie when it came out, which I also liked a lot...starring William Hurt and Lee Martin.That was back in 1983, when espionage was very different from today's versions.
