https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46212.The_Ox_Bow_Incident
You would be wrong...this is so much more, what is justice and the requirements needed in order to achieve that elusive goal.
Gil likes to drink in fact, get drunk and fight, win or lose he strangely feels better, afterwards,Art is quiet, thinks things over especially just before the hangings, but men are cowards , afraid to be different and few challenge the uneasy proceedings.
A tough end , yet needed to tell a story which necessitates it, how the human race must stand up and not let justice be thwarted.
The entire book takes place within a 24-hour period, beginning in a small Nevada town and traversing to a small canyon with only one inlet, outlet.
Here is what Clark had to say about his western setting: I had repeatedly found the stereotypes, both the people and the situations, of the standard "horse oprey" in my way...So, in part, I set about writing The Ox-Bow Incident as a kind of deliberate technical exercise.
It has happened here, in minor but sufficiently indicative ways, a great many times.5 starsThank-you Cheryl in Nevada for recommending to me.
If you have read To Kill a Mockingbird, this book is just as great on a similar topic at a different place and time.Western but not "a western" by what we expect now of that genre.
They learn that a murder has taken place out on the range and that someone wants to form a posse to get the guys "who done it." Walter Clark gives us a host of characters, most drawn with deftness and nuance.There is not a cliche in this powerful and timely book about men and justice.
Be prepared for one of the most memorable books you will ever read.

It is a book about the nature of justice, the human desire to fit in and our fear of confronting evil.
We know what Tyler is, or any man like Tyler,” he added glaring at Osgood, “if we wait, I tell you, there won’t be one head of anybody’s cattle left in the meadows by the time we get justice.” He ridiculed the work “justice” by his tone.
Waiting for Tyler’s kind of justice we’d all be beggars in a year.”The men are swayed by the need for action, now.
…. I had everything, justice, pity, even the backing – and I knew it – and I let those three men hand because I was afraid.
So when I was looking for books that I had seen the movie, I had to put Ox-Bow on my list and when listening to an OTR, quiz show last week, "Information Please", this book was mentioned in all its greatness and knew it was time read it.
In the book lynching is seen as wrong but there is such a grey area with the characters which gives a more realistic view of the mob which is neither pretty or pleasant to read.
I read this at the suggestion of my Dad and I really enjoyed it. The book takes place in the Old West and it is about the dangers of mob law and a lesson I think we could all benefit from even in today's world when the media often decides people are guilty of crimes before they have a chance to state their case in a court of law. It was beautifully written and I highly recommend it.
Assuming you had some reason for doing so, you could dig up all kinds of critical commentary claiming that Walter Van Tilburg Clark's Western classic "The Ox-Bow Incident" transcends the genre.
"Transcends the genre." What does that mean?
It can't be Western/scifi/horror/etc.; therefore, it (music swells) TRANSCENDS THE GENRE!!!!" Nonsense.
"The Ox-Bow Incident" doesn't transcend the genre.
It's a fine example OF the genre and what good genre writing can accomplish, though it's not the finest example.
Still, if flowery passages and levels of political allegory are what it takes to wrangle critical favor for a lowly genre work, then write em, cowboy.
We can ask ourselves what were they thinking to allow something like that to happen in Germany.
My wondering is are we still the same in allowing things to go on in the world and not stepping forward to stand for the innocent ones being unjustly judged, because we are afraid to go against the rule of the majority .This book makes you go into your very being and try to answer these questions.
We can try to justify our stance, but will the law prevail or will our souls stand for real justice.
Ok, honestly, I can't remember one damn thing about this book except that Sister Marie Renee made us read this in Jr. High and I hated it and wouldn't read it. Then, the night before we had to be done with it, I had a major 12-year-old nervous breakdown because I knew I could never finish it in time and was afraid of incurring nun-wrath.
Davies and young Gerald Tetley offer book-end assessments of human motivations, and it is hard to say who is more accurate, or who pays more for the beliefs he holds, in the end.Some of the locals are "axe-to-grind", power hungry men whose motivations cover the entire spectrum EXCEPT for achieving justice in the case.
A Western American novel, no doubt, but also a timeless assessment of human nature, and the problems of power, justice, tribalism and fear.
A psychological western that seemed to question the basic assumption that frontier justice was hard but fair.
It is well written and very different from other westerns from the time (early 1940s).
It may be the only frontier story that beats the adage it is better for ten guilty men to go free than one innocent be convicted.
I could argue society would find preferable convicting a number of innocents for traffic tickets than allow ten murderers and rapists run free.
I think the moral of the story is not for people stop striving for justice but to take their time in doing so.
Perhaps I was expecting more than anything in that genre could deliver; nevertheless, the intense description of every character and cloud was at first impressive, but soon wore heavy on this impatient reader.The moral lessons were plain and straightforward.
As cynical youngsters are prone to say today, "Yeah, right!"So, just as the murderous mob prevailed in this tale, so does delusion prevail still in the mind of man.
Perhaps I should take a lesson from Storekeeper Davies, one of the novel's main characters, who believed it was better to free 100 guilty men rather than convict one innocent, and I should be satisfied when one in 100 readers sees the moral lesson of this book and takes it to heart.
Cerebral but hard-boiled Western deals with frontier justice, mob rule, and vigilantism. Narrator is a good reporter of the events but nobody really comes off looking too noble or even decent. Made into a movie. Slow start to set up the alleged crimes, but the ending is a searing one.
"All this time I'm thinkin', and all he's got's whisky.""And that's rotten, ain't it?" he asked Canby."Rotten," Canby agreed."Two glasses and a bottle," Gil said.At that point, I was recalling a friend who used to write fairly predictable Western potboilers, and so was taken by surprise when things abruptly veered in an unexpected direction.
It ain't that, anyway," he defended."No, it certainly isn't that," Davies agreed."It's seeing everybody gets what's comin' to him, that's what it is," Winder said."But according to whom?" Davies asked him.
"Who decides what everybody's got coming to him?"Winder looked at us, daring us to grin.
This book is horrifying - and rightly deserves a position in the canon of American literature.
It depicts the definite dark-side of the American West mythos.
Tillburg Clark creates characters to bear out the darkness, rather than employing abstract forces themselves.
It requires intellectual engagement with it; the plot does not necessarily speak volumes at its surface level, but it opens magnificently when the reader takes the time to wonder "why?".
This is a book that engages "why?", not by pontificating, but by outlining circumstances and actions, leaving the reader to do the work.
I have re-read this book multiple times, and it still speaks to me.
Remember reading this in high school. Think I reread it again sometime later. Would love to reread it again.

It took a while to get going, but the last half of the book, after the set up and up until about halfway through the journey to find the "guilty party", was really good and gripping. Solid Western about mob justice.
Great, classic western about the morality of vigilante justice, concerning a murder and cattle rustling, and the question of whether the law or posse justice is the way to go.
Yes, tracking a man takes practical knowledge, and can be done in the same way an animal can be tracked, but determining guilt or innocence has nothing to do with knowing the prairies or the mountains, how to tie a rope or herd cattle.What is necessary is our unique achievement: the law.The Ox-bow Incident could well be a text in law school, not because it details the law, but because it shows the need for it and the consequences of ignoring it.Far from being some kind of frosting on the cake of justice, the law is a crafted instrument that has come from long observation of human behavior in an attempt to rise above it in principles and procedures that, while not guaranteeing the discovery of truth, give the best chance of doing so.
And it's a refreshing read because its style is not unduly difficult.One sign of good literature is when the characters appear so alive that you feel a strong urge to step into the book and shake them to keep them from making fatal mistakes.
The author never offers any clue.To make the story even more difficult to swallow, the lynching victims happen to come into possession of Kinkaid's gun which has been taken by the shooters.
One cannot help reading The Ox Bow Incident without thinking of the term mob mentality.
There is a bit of philosophy and wisdom in Clark’s novel, a search for a scapegoat seems to fog the minds of the masses, and there are overriding questions about how one should go about handling justice when there are apparently no parameters or rules.
This is essentially about the nature of a mob mentality, and individuals who must come to terms with the decisions and actions they carry out, and live with them to their grave.
Told as the first person account of a cowboy, Art Croft, at the periphery of events, first helping an attempt to stop the lynch mob from forming, than being swept up into it, he is thoughtful and does have a conscience.
He consciously tries to play the "light" to Major Willard Tetley's "dark." Of all the characters in the book, the two that seem the most despicable are two at the opposite ends of the social spectrum, Monty Smith, the town "bum" and the rich and powerful Tetley, the "biggest man in the valley" with maybe one exception.
At 39th st when the driver lost control and drove into a group of people sitting and standing around the front porch of a building.As soon as the truck stopped they were pulled out and beaten to death.In the spring of 2005 the oxbow incident was chosen for the one book,one Chicago to be read and discussed at library's all across the city.
The Blackstone branch library at 49th and Lake Park is a mere 8 blocks from the crime scene and yes a mile from the home o President Obama.Can you imagine that book discussion ?This is a book that needs to be read by all of us.
While there drinking whisky, fighting, playing poker, and hearing the latest gossip (there have been cattle rustlers in the area hitting most of the herds), a young man comes racing into town with the terrible that ranch hand Larry Kinkaid has been murdered out on the range, shot through the head.
Then former Confederate Major Tetley takes the lead, there's no turning back, and the 'posse' go after three men seen herding cattle bearing the brand of the ranch where the murder takes place.While I'm glad I read the book because of it's classic designation, if I have to be honest, I didn't love it.
The merit of this book is the way it takes so many elements of the traditional Western-- cowpokes playing poker in the saloon, rustlers, a posse-- and uses them to confront serious and enduring moral and social issues.A messenger gallops into town with news of a killing and the theft of some cattle; the crowd in the saloon, stirred up by a friend of the reported victim, mount up to go in search of the rustlers.
The sheriff is out of town and the judge is ineffectual and indecisive; leadership of the posse is assumed by the local grandee, a retired Confederate colonel, cold-blooded and implacable.
A great Western and a great novel, period.
The Ox-Bow Incident is not your standard western.
By that time the west described in The Ox-Bow Incident was well on the way to extinction in the face of 20th century technology and civilization, but I'm sure there were still many remnants visible in the buildings and the landscape and many people still alive willing to tell stories of those times to an eager youngster.
Even in the late 1930s, when Clark wrote this novel, he could have still found many people who remembered the west of 1885.
Read the novel, then see the film, in that order.
Before long the man was not only shot, but shot and killed in the head – an even more heinous and unforgivable crime that cattle rustling.The sheriff is away and rather than wait on his return, a group of local citizens decide to form a posse and go after the culprits.
Predictably, the posse (or mob), come upon a group of three men with the suspicious cattle and decide the take the law into their own hands.This is the kind of book that merits examination by high school students, along with The Lottery and The Lord of the Flies.
So many times classic novels become just another story we’ve heard in any number of movies and television shows today.
In the story the main characters are a group of "cowboys".
These cowboys go on a long ride far from their home town together.
Through the book the characters were very deeply described and easy to visualize which is something I like to find in the reading of a book.
The only true problem I had with this book is the ending was easily predictable if you read three quarters of the way through.
I recomend this book to any reader because whether you like cowboys or not, this book will take you for a wild ride.
