https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/233353.Death_Sentence
What makes it happen that every time my grave opens, now, I rouse a thought there that is strong enough to bring me back to life?
Plaster casts of four hand puppets futures in artificial life support.
She must be closest to death when they feel she is going to live and precipiced to life when it isn't over for the others already.
But when it was me, and when it still is (time stops in dread for each and every real life chore) it is the longing for the preexistence of stories, the breathing in between the lines of books that I love more than anything ever.
The first half is narrator talking about his dying wife, J. - who strangely looked more and more like a child closer she got to death and even came back to life after her first death once. J.'s reactions to her own approaching death  "Every minute stolen from solitude and fear was an inestimable boon for J. She fought with all her strength for one single minute: not with supplications, but inwardly, though she did not wish to admit it. Children are that way: silently, with the fervor of hopeless
I cannot understand this reserve, and I who am now speaking turn bitterly towards those silent days, those silent years, as towards an inaccessible, unreal country, closed off from everyone, and most of all from myself, yet where I have lived during a large part of my life, without exertion, without desire, by a mystery which astonishes me now.
I have shut myself up in a room, alone, there is no one in the house, almost no one outside, but this solitude has itself begun to speak, and I must in turn speak about this speaking solitude, not in derision, but because a greater solitude hovers above it, and above that solitude, another still greater, and each, taking the spoken word in order to smother it and silence it, instead echoes it to infinity, and infinity becomes its echo."
A very, very interesting read!Easy to read and very short so I recommend you to try it!This book begins very intriguing, with the writer saying he is going to tell about events (in 1938) that were such, that he never could write about them earlier on.
That everything he has ever written before was an attempt to write about these events, but that words had been cunning and deceiving.
The writer does this is such a good way that you just have to read the book to feel how strange it is: it is mysterious, intriguing, but at the same time stupid and boring.
Within the eighty pages of this novella cries out the entrapment of our lives caught between this and the smoked breath of death.Our protagonist-narrator not only walks us into the face of death, its all consuming fears but takes our arm and leads us directly into the cross threads of the experience of enigmatic life through the truth of his style.
These parts are difficult reading, tough sledding, but we get from those pages the unwrapped experience of life shredded down to its core.He battles this through his unending search for freedom.
بلانشو تکرار می کند ولی ملال آور نمی شود. کیفیت ترجمه برای این نوع متن پایین بود و ارتباط با مولف را مختل می کرد.

When I was reading Maurice Blanchot's Aminadab, I'd heard that that was his last "novel", and sure enough, this is an unravelable essay-memoir-story, meandering through apparent memories and introspection, though difficult to judge as actual truth or falsehood.
Honestly, the whole here eludes me somewhat but many individual sequences and reflections on mortality and happenstance glisten on their own.
Though it's seeming even more diffuse now that I've been away for a month of road-tripping since I read it.
I'm sure that it deserves more than two stars, but until I can make some sense of it, I'm rather shut out of greater appreciation.
متاسفانه ترجمه ي خوبي از بلانشو نبود. ترجيح ميدم متن اصلي رو  بخونم و بعد ريويو رو آپديت كنم.
It's surprising to find an author who writes so well yet cannot construct a simple story. This book suffers from the common ailments of contemporary literature : its meaning is hidden behind a jumble of random stories told in a stream-of-consciousness manner in a non-existent narrative. What ever happened to good stories? Why can't contemporary ideas be put into forms that are at least pleasing to read? When it's a chore to get through a book because there is so little content, I think it's time to start looking somewhere else for good literature...
خودم را تنها در اتاقی حبس کرده ام. درون و بیرون خانه هیچ کس نیست. اما این تنهایی, خود سخن گفتن آغاز کرده , و من هم باید از این تنهایی که سخن می گوید, سخن بگویم, نه به قصد تمسخر, بلکه بدین دلیل که در ورای این تنهایی, تنهایی بزرگ تری مترصد فرصت نشسته است و در ورای این یکی, باز یکی بزرگ تر از آن, و هر یک کلام را در بر می گیرد تا خفه و خاموشش کند, ولی به جای این کار, کلام را در نامتناهی منعکس می کند و نا متناهی انعکاس کلام می شود.
Rather than reading a story, I felt as though I was stumbling around in his mind, moving towards something far in the distance but instead catching myself in pits of wonder and contemplation.
My confusions met his, and the moments in which I felt satisfied and grounded where those in which he was lost in thought, perhaps also struggling to find ground in what he sought to explain.
one of my favorites - i reread sections of it all the time. i like books i can digest in little chunks. is that weird?
There is even almost a direct reference to Kafka's short story The Bridge: the road had summoned [the traveller] and he walks onward, but the road wants to see if the man who is coming is really the one who should be coming: it turns around to see who he is, and in one somersault they both tumble into the ravine.Death Sentence stands on the edge of life and peers down at the dark chasm; whether that edge belongs to the life of the narrator, the lives of the women, or neither, the chasm yawns equally dark regardless.
**The original French title of this novel, L'arrêt de mort, can bear two meanings: it is first a "death sentence", but it is also a "stay of execution".
This ambiguity is apparently at the heart of this novel, with its two distinct parts and the constant complaints from the narrator about the relative impossibility of finding the words to describe what happens (happened).
The first part covers the agony of J., suffering from an incurable disease, experiencing some sort of second wind, only to be killed by the narrator via drug overdose.
The second part explores the narrator's relationships with three different women in Paris at the beginning of WWII.
Found a copy of this List book online HERE.It starts out with the narrator basically confessing that he's trying to write about something that he's had bottled up inside of him forever. And, through the whole book, there's an odd, mysterious aspect that makes you THINK he's going to tell you the secret. But, then he just goes off on some other tangent in some other timeline with some other woman...I felt stiffed. No story? No plot? No ending? WTF???
من از وقایعی حرف میزنم که به نظر خصوصی میرسند و از وقایع عمومیتر غافلم. این وقایع بسیار مهم بودهاند و همهروزه ذهن مرا به خود مشغول میکردهاند. اما امروزه این وقایع تباه شدهاند. قصه هایشان مرده است و زندگی و لحظههایی که به اقتضای آنها متعلق به من بودهاند نیز مردهاند. آن چه گویاست، دقیقهی اکنون است و دقیقهای دیگر که از پی آن میآید. سایهی دنیای دیروز هنوز برای کسانی که به آن پناه میبرند، جاذبه دارد. اما آن نیز محو خواهد شد و جهانِ آینده همچون بهمنی بر سر خاطرات گذشته فرود میآید.
من از وقایعی حرف می‌زنم که به نظر خصوصی می‌رسند و از وقایع عمومی‌تر غافلم. این وقایع بسیار مهم بوده‌اند و همه‌روزه ذهن مرا به خود مشغول می‌کرده‌اند. اما امروزه این وقایع تباه شده‌اند. قصه هایشان مرده است و زندگی و لحظه‌هایی که به اقتضای آن‌ها متعلق به من بوده‌اند نیز مرده‌اند. آن چه گویاست، دقیقه‌ی اکنون است و دقیقه‌ای دیگر که از پی آن می‌آید. سایه‌ی دنیای دیروز هنوز برای کسانی که به آن پناه می‌برند، جاذبه دارد. اما آن نیز محو خواهد شد و جهانِ آینده همچون بهمنی بر سر خاطرات گذشته فرود می‌آید.
I feel like I didn't really get into this like I should have, so I take the blame as a reader. I should have given this my undevout attention. I do think this is one that I will get back to again years from now and see it through a different perspective and like it. So the two stars is just for now, because of me, and I'm gonna give this another chance in the future!
blæh
Apparently you can put the unspeakable into words...
Reading Blanchot on Valentine's Day, a cool romantic tip.
سکوتم را شکسته ام و اکنون احساس پشیمانی بی حدی مرا در خود گرفته است . از شرح و بیان بدبختی ای که انسان با سخن گفتن دچار آن میشود ، عاجزم '
Sometimes solitude does not cure.
I would say Blanchot plays around with the story and with meaning but that implies a sort of joy; there is nothing playful about this book or from what I've read in Blanchot.
The prose is much easier to comprehend than Thomas the Obscure - I would recommend starting with this book (or his short story Madness of the Day) if you want to get into Blanchot.
Every intimate scene in Blanchot, especially in Death Sentence, is like reading two corpses be intimate with one another.
A spoiler alert is perhaps warranted here but it's practically impossible to explain what you like about this book without in some ways giving it away.
Never quite managing to convey what it was he set out to tell he instead ends up making and illustrating a number of points about, for instance, how you come alive when you're in some way close to death, how human experience is always deceptively subjective and how language is ultimately a limited form of communication anyway.This is a very interesting short little read if you're up for some truly experimental fiction.
Stumbled upon this randomly at the library while debating whether or not to read more Georges Bataille. Excellent writing, unsettling, at times meandering. A Favorite line "... familiarity is just what has disappeared between us. I look at it. It lives with me. It is in my house. Sometimes it begins to eat; sometimes, though rarely, it sleeps next to me. And I, a madman, fold my hands and let it eat its own flesh." This is packed with gems like that. 80 pages. Read it in an afternoon, it's worth your time.
A pretty, Beckettian, sort of thing. It was smelled to me of the sickly-sweet, sweaty, stink of the modern french novel, think Battaile or Jean-Claude Brisseau's films. The sort of prose where every feeling is infinite, every action is "extraordinarily tortured" or some other similar turn of phrase. IT really does hammer with superlatives.That said my reaction is probably more about me coming to it after reading a lot of Japanese novels where the bigger a tragedy is the more understated the prose is. It's on my rereading queue and I'm sure I'll change my mind about it.
Art house cinema in book format complete with brooding narrator who defies conventional narration by jumping between a series of vignettes depicting the narrator's previous relationships at the point that they all ended. If you like your lit experimental than this is the book for you!! [Though at 81 pages it is a decent introduction to the non-traditional series of images that passes for a novel.]
I wasn't over-enamoured with this one. The book is in two parts, both narrated by an unnamed man. The first bit tells of his relationship with J, a woman dying of a terminal illness. The second part about him and his friend Nathalie in Paris during the Occupation. Some lovely writing in parts, but I found it all a bit disjointed and rambling. I was glad it was only 81 pages long!
The language was simple enough and at 80 pages this took maybe an hour to get through, but it was probably a mistake jumping into this without a working knowledge of Blanchot or his sensibilities. The writing is fine and yet nothing of any sort of discernible resonance ever materializes. Kafka by way of disappearing ink.
This book barely made sense. I think that was intentional, actually, and it certainly came across as a very artsy novella, with lots of 'deep' introspection, and occasionally an idea that was pretty good. Most of this novella though is so vague that it drags like a dead weight. Considering the death theme in this story, that may be appropriate too, but it doesn't make for a very enjoyable read.
