https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123091.In_a_Dark_Wood_Wandering
It is about France during the Hundred Years' War with England, and in particular the life of Charles, Duke of Orléans.
Then of course there was also the on-going war with England with the huge defeat of the French at Agincourt.The novel comes into its own as Charles becomes a man.
It was interesting to read about the Hundred Year War from a French point of view.
I think that the novel would translate well into film, and I wish that someone would write the story of Charles d'Orléans's wives.Highly recommended.
These characters are only supporting actors and actresses, part of the backstory of the novel - a story of four Houses of medieval France - Orleans, Burgundy, Berry, and the Royal House of Valois – during the years of the second half of the Hundred Years War (1337-1453), starting in 1394.And why 1394, and that specific date, November 24?
It is indeed a book you need to take your time with I think...
Hella Haasse, the grande dame of the Dutch literature, she's a poet as well.
So there were some tough parts in this book, hard to get through, I admit, but overall it is such a grand book and the last 200 pages or so kept me fascinated til the very end.
I doubted between four and five stars, but the last part of the book is so wonderful and beautiful, I can't give anything other than five grand stars!
Now, upon finishing this opus, I can say that I enjoyed it -at parts- but there were certain issues that prevent me from classifying it among the best Historical Fiction I’ve ever read.The plethora of characters is certain to astonish you in the most positive way.
One of the things that excite me in Historical Fiction is that most of us avid fans of the genre are accustomed to lists and lists of family names, dates and facts without being intimidated.
I learned quite a lot of new facts about this turbulent era in European History and I came to know what seems to be an iconic book of the genre.
In an eighty-five page Prologue Haase introduces over two dozen characters and almost as many plot lines to create a rich, hugely complex tapestry of life in the royal courts of late 14th century Europe: Popes in Avignon and Rome, Dukes in Italy, Holy Roman Emperors, Flemish and Bavarian princes, Kings and wanna-be kings in England, and Dukes and Duchesses of Valois, Orleans, Burgundy, Berry, Bourbon, and Anjou all crowd into the picture.
Beyond catching flies, there is one more purpose to Burgundy’s web, which is to separate Louis, the Duke of Orleans, from his brother the King and from Queen Isabeau.And so at last we reach Book 1, which tells the story of Charles d’Orleans in his youth in the first decade of the 15th century.
Haasse follows the life of Charles, Duke of Orleans, through palace intrigues and the long battle for power between the duchies of Burgundy, Bourbon, Orleans and the king.Unfortunately for France, Charles VI suffered from periods that came and went of insanity with cycles of increasing severity during which he would not recognize his kin.
It's not the current type of historical fiction tale but includes this art, this verse, this sense of proportion and value within 15th century Orleans' "eyes" within its long and convoluted entirety.
Including the blow by blow, and verse by verse composition of Charles' 25 year imprisonment in various cells within England while manipulating for ransom funds and possibilities for both himself and his younger brother to return to France.Having read numerous fiction and non-fiction within the English outlook for these same conflicts to determine continental controls, this work become a bright light into the French purposes and understanding for the exact issues.
I have read this book many times and absolutely love it. If you're interested in Medieval French history or the Hundred Years War this is the best of the best.  "In a Dark Wood Wandering" is tied with "Gone With the Wind" as my favorite book of all time.
“In a Dark Wood Wandering” pulls the reader so strongly that one oftentimes is shocked to realize that it is the modern times and not the setting of the novel.
Each character within “In a Dark Wood Wandering” is unique, thorough, and well-developed; jumping out at the reader with individualistic viewpoints that are strong and memorable.
Complaints toward Haasse and “In a Dark Wood Wandering” only begin to occur around the last 150 or so pages.
Haasse’s novel is recommended for all readers interested in this historic time frame and especially those who prefer a strong focus on history versus fictional fluff.
This wonderful novel depicting the life and times of Charles of Orleans has been sitting in my "to be read" mountain for a long time. I was hesitant to read it because I thought that in some ways it would be dry and dull.......I was wrong, very wrong. A surprisingly "readable" novel, that brings the characters and times to life on the page. Well worth a look at for a glimpse of a fascinating period.
As a side effect, in the mean time I have read a number of other books.
Hence this one took me from April 17 to June 2 to finish.)The novel is about Charles d’Orléans, literally from his first cry to his last sigh.In between we see more rivalry than chivalry, politics on all levels in what is now called France as well as internationally in the hundred years of conflicts and war with England.
By the way, Charles had his strives as a statesman, but he was a poet too.Haasse has structured the novel clearly and gives room for extended elaboration on dialogue, thoughts, nature.
Not much like the historical fiction being published these days, which tends to sensationalize as well as glamorize the lives of kings, queens, and courtiers.
This reads more like history, which is how it should be.
It is also a very fine work of literary imagination as well as careful historical research.
Really quite beautiful.
The story of the life of Charles d'Orleans, nephew to Charles VI of France, who was a dreamy reclusive boy until he was thrust into the middle of a blood feud after the savage murder of his father.
Very moving, as is Hella Haasse's quiet, haunting prose.
A real classic, a passionate, poetic and moving novel which captures the colur and feeling of 15th century France.This compelling epic brings to life the Hundred Years War through the life of Duke Charles D'Orleans,son of the Louis of Orleans and the ambitious and alluring Valentine Visconti.
Later we read of the last decades of the Dukes life and his marriage to Marie of Cleves.This novel brings the political intrigues of France at that time to life, but is also poetic and beautiful.Charles' d'Orleans was a great poet of his time and some of his poetry is reproduced here.The translation seems to lose none of the music of the language and still remains a must read for anyone who is interested in the Middle Ages or who simply loves good literature.Highly recommended.
However, Hella Haasse hit the bullseye with this magnificent volume based on the life of Charles d'Orleans, who lived during the turbulent 15th century and the Hundred Years War between France and England.The reader is pulled into the fabric of the Houses of Orleans, Valois, Burgundy, and Berry.
Each character has a solid foundation so the reader buys into their motives, with the result that we are empathetic to the protagonist.
History is explained and taught, with the result that I wanted to know even more about that tumultuous century that was basically the end of the medieval Gothic era, the "dark woods".This book will always have a place in my collection.Book Season = Summer (savor it and take your time reading it)

Withdrawn from Kirklees Libraries Museums and ArtsTranslated by Lewis C Kaplan. Revised and Edited by Anita Miller.A map of England and France circa 1410Cast of Major Characters - November 24, 1394Family trees of the four houses-Valois-Orléans-Burgundy-BerryThe introduction is a story unto itself.Prologue:In the middle of the journey of our life,I found myself in a dark wood,For the straight way was lost. - Dante AlighieriOpening: Valentine, Duchess of Orléans, lay in her green-curtained bed of state, listening to the bells of Saint-Pol. The church was not far from the royal palace - only a stone's throw away.
Charles van Orléans. Hij is hertog, dichter, drievoudig echtgenoot, balling, politiek pion; maar bovenal een gevoelsmens, geperst in het keurslijf van zijn tijd, waarin riddertrouw en bloedwraak persoonlijke visie overschaduwen, verstandshuwelijken de eigen voorkeur tenietdoen. En man die warmbloedig was maar werd geleefd. Geleefd door alle om hem heen. Dit dikke boek verteld eigenlijk alles ook over de mensen om hem heen. Het was voor mij dan ook geen boek wat ik in een keer uitlas. Heb er bijna 3 maanden over gedaan. Maar toch weer een schitterend verhaal van Hella Haasse
This is one of my favorite books and this is the third time I'm reading it in 10 years. (partly because I love it and partly because I have a poor memory.)It's a nice long book with Dukes and Duchesses, Kings and Knights. And so well written I get lost in it. I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to disappear into a good read.
Op zich heeft Haasse niks verkeerd gedaan met dit boek, omdat het eigenlijk onmogelijk is om zo'n ingewikkelde geschiedenis gevuld met intriges, geredetwist, kuise juffers, struise prinsessen, korzelige hofmeesters en wrevelige koningen zowel begrijpelijk als boeiend te houden.
Ondanks de ingewikkelde onderlinge relaties van de feodale heren (die om de 10 pagina's veranderden) bleef het gedurende het verloop van dit verhaal volkomen duidelijk wie tegen wie wrevel koesterde en wie voor welk belang placht te strijden.
Nu is het over het algemeen zo dat een persoon in hun eerste levensweek niet bijster veel zal uitvoeren, en dit was dus ook het geval voor Charles.
In those few opening chapters Haasse conveys an indelible picture of Charles “the Mad”, who throughout his long reign (1380 to 1422), suffered extended delusional attacks; his shrewd embittered wife Isabeau of Bavaria, and the king's paternal uncle Philippe, Duke of Burgundy, ambitious, cold and crafty.
As for Isabeau, Haasse describes her regarding her children:  “It was the love of a chess player for the precious pieces on her board; in it there was no trace of tenderness, of concern with the thousand little joys and sorrows of a child's life....” (Location 1466) Of course, like every other parent, she will come to learn that unlike chess pieces, children cannot be controlled.An intriguing woman also appears in the final section of the book.
This allows Haasse to not focus too narrowly on the fortunes of the house of Orléans, important to Charles but ultimately barely relevant to France, and portray larger developments which the hero would have attracted attention away from if he’d been more dynamic.The political aspect of the novel is interwoven with an introspective account of Charles’s mental and emotional life.
Both points of view have nonetheless been carefully explored in the book; it is up to the readers to synthesize them, if they can.Haasse writes in a plain, un-clichéed style that allows her ideas to come across clearly; she manages to impart the necessary masses of historical information to the readers in a relatively unobtrusive manner.
This is one of the best historical fiction novels I've read, and that encompasses quite a few.
Hella Haasse does not force history into a narrative; instead her narrative flows through it, bringing the story along, as she teases out the powerful forces and personalities that shaped the time.
I think you will close the book knowing more about the time period than reading 100 history books.
There is no one character to embrace as a "hero" here, but much to empathize with nonetheless.Haasse is the ultimate "show not tell" author - she does not drive you to conclusions but suggests powerfully the futility of power-seeking and war, even when the players who seek it seems to have no other option.
What I liked best (and what I believe the book is best known for) is all the great historical details you get by reading about one man's life.
What did these rooms smell like, and how many teeth was a guy likely to have left by the time he reached age 60?
The historical figure on whom the novel is based is fascinating in his own right, and I related to him; we have similar thoughtful temperaments and spend a lot of time wrestling with our flaws, and I was hugely encouraged both by his successes and the way his failures were rooted in honest motives.

This wonderful historical novel was one of the first I read as an adult and it started me down quite the path. An extremely well written and researched book, it created the benchmark that I believe all historical fiction should strive for.
Toen ik dit boek voor mijn boekenlijst las, verheugde ik me al op het moment dat ik dit later nog een keer op mijn gemak zou kunnen lezen. Ik houd van de boeken van Hella Haasse en deze staat op de eerste plaats.
Haasse managed to squeeze in 600 pages a massive piece of French- English history, number of historical figures, some better known, some almost forgotten.
Charles' dialog with king Louis XI is nearly like a counterpoint to everything we were asked to believe about him and his times.Never being able to remember dates and names I knew this part of history very superficially.
This wonderful novel brings history closer, in manageable bits, despite density of facts, people and places.
There are plenty of shallow, so called historical novels out there, boring, badly written, inventing rather than re-inventing history.
It was mainly through the eyes of Charles d'Orleans from childhood until the end of his life.
It was easy to understand and relate to Charles and his viewpoints, although his ideals kept him a hostage prisoner in England for a long time.
The other main characters, too, were easy to understand and relate, too, and of course, we've all known a number of people who share the familiar characteristics.
Her charismatic personality was shown in her brief meetings with Charles' brother who mainly led the fighting charges.
And I think it helped give a good picture of the England and France of the time.

Couldn't finish this one. I guess I wasn't in the mood.This might be worth another shot someday. I really liked the other two by this author I read: The Scarlet City and Threshold of Fire: a novel of fifth century Rome. Maybe it lacked something in translation, I don't know...Isn't the title a quote from Dante's Inferno?
