https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157307.A_Gun_for_Sale
It was his first book and even he said it was poop.) I shouldn't have waited twenty years between the two!This Gun For Hire is actually A Gun For Sale, but whatever the title it has all the noiry hallmarks that defined the era, formed the Hollywood version of crime noir and thus spread the good word back to the people en masse.
A hired killer gets double-crossed and goes after the guy that stiffed him, all while being chased by the coppers.
Quando un libro racconta due storie invece di una solaAmo Graham Greene e possiedo molti dei suoi libri, oltre ai due Meridiani che contengono tutte le sue opere, ma quando mi aggiro tra le bancarelle dell'usato e mi capita di trovare una vecchia edizione dei suoi romanzi non resisto alla tentazione di portarmela a casa.
Ognuno ha le sue manie.Una pistola in vendita è un gran bel giallo, con una trama ben congegnata e un protagonista indimenticabile, a cui Greene ha saputo conferire uno spessore umano che ben difficilmente si incontra nella letteratura di genere.Trovato su una bancarella dell’usato, me lo sono portato a casa e quando l’ho aperto ho trovato questa dedica:8/8/1967Alla Mamma, senza la cui affettuosa assistenza sarei stato assistito dall’infermiera carina.CarloEra l’agosto del 1967.
When a hare-lipped assassin named Raven is paid for a job with stolen cash, he becomes wanted for robbery and goes on the run with a hostage named Anne.I was not a tremendous fan of This Gun for Hire.
The book read like it had an identity crisis of sorts, like it didn't know whether it wanted to be a straight up thriller or literary fiction.
I liked the characters of Anne and Raven quite a bit and had high hopes at the start.
I got a pretty meh feeling from this book and was glad when it was over.
I've not seen anything like it before or since and naturally there's a completely uncalled for scene featuring Veronica Lake singing a song quite badly whilst dressed as a leather clad fisherman.The other great pleasure of this novel is the use of location and the manner in which Greene evokes the choking fog and the grey light of a miserable Northern England, it's a little cliche in film circles to say things like the location is the star but in literature only a truly great writer can make that so with just a few seemingly offhand phrases.
Όγδοο βιβλίο του Γκράχαμ Γκριν που διαβάζω και για μια ακόμη φορά δηλώνω μαγεμένος και ξετρελαμένος από την γραφή του συγγραφέα και την μοναδική του ικανότητα να περιγράφει τα συναισθήματα και τις σκέψεις των χαρακτήρων, κάνοντας τον αναγνώστη να γίνει ένα με τα προβλήματά και τις ανησυχίες τους.Η πλάκα είναι ότι το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο υποτίθεται το έγραψε για να ψυχαγωγήσει τον αναγνώστη με μια απλή αστυνομική νουάρ ιστορία και όχι να τον προβληματίσει όπως με τα υπόλοιπα σοβαρά έργα του.
Θα μπλέξει όμως με μια κοπελίτσα και έναν επίμονο αστυνομικό...Την ιστορία την γράφει ο Γκράχαμ Γκριν, οπότε δεν πρόκειται για μια απλή αστυνομική ιστορία με προδοσίες, βία και φόνους, αλλά για κάτι παραπάνω.
One of the reasons is that the story involves a man called Raven hired by Cholmondeley (miraculously pronounced Chumley, only two from its obvious four syllables!) who has been employed by the Jewish steel tycoon, Sir Marcus, to kill an old War Minister by an automatic.
So Raven has become the hunter, having Anne as the shield in the midst of fragile friendship, who finally takes his revenge on Mr Davis and Sir Marcus; he himself is gunned down by Saunders.
The man in the gas-mask spoke and again the muffled coarse voice pricked at Mr Davis's memory.
This isn't the best novel by the author that I've read. Decided to read this after seeing it on the Guardian 1000 list.Liked the premise of the story, an assassin who is double crossed by his puppet masters. Found parts of this quite unbelievable and those parts mostly involved the female lead. Enjoyed the atmosphere of pre WW11 and actually ended up feeling some empathy for Raven, the main character. Thought the psychology of Raven's character better presented then any other.Relatively quick read, entertaining in parts but the tension of the story was not maintained throughout.
بازی های پنهان سیاست گذاران در پیش از جنگ
شاید بتوان جهان داستانی گراهام گرین را به دو شق تقسیم کرد:(جان کلام، عالیجناب کیشوت، قدرت و جلال) داستانهایی که به طور ویژه و مستقیم با مسئله دین و رستگاری درگیر هستندداستانهایی که شکل و شمایل پلیسی - سیاسی دارند و به مسائل اجتماعی میپردازند (مامور معتمد، مامور ما در هاوانا، سایهء گریزان)رمان سایه گریزان متعلق به شق دوم است.به همین خاطر با اثری کاملا نمایشی روبرو هستیم که اندیشه های شخصیت ها چندان عمقی نمی یابد و این اندیشه ها اصلا مستقیم بیان نمیشوند.
راون شخصیت قاتل داستان ب شدت قابل ترحم بود ادمی با یک گذشته غم انگیز، مردی رو میکشه بدون اینکه از پشت پرده سیاسی این قتل آگاه باشه؛ نمیشه گفت فوق العاده است اما داستان پلیسی روانی هستش که مخاطب رو تا اخر با خودش همراه میکنه. راون بیشتر از اون که یک قاتل به حساب بیاد یک فریب خورده ی شکست خوردست.
A Gun for Sale and This Gun for Hire are the same book originally published in 1936. I looked but could not find why it was published under two separate names and am relatively sure different dates. The library book I read was This Gun for Hire. I haven’t read that the books are different in any way with each word being identical.  [image error]First Edition Cover Raven, by the way, is a lovely last name for a villain/hero. The name conjures up brooding, dark, dank, dismal and Edgar Allen Poe fo
I haven’t read that the books are different in any way with each word being identical.
Damn, poor hairlipped Raven and then gets ripped off.
In my opinion, it’s not just American writers, such as Raymond Chandler either.
That may be just one reason why I'm reading a book 77 years old and enjoying it.
I love mysteries as all my friends know and Graham Greene is considered a master, a classic mystery writer, therefore my jolly (jolly being one of few Brit slang terms I know) choice to read at least one Graham Greene.
This earlier work had a little bit more gunplay and a little less focus on interpersonal relationships, but I often found myself thinking that I was reading a rough draft of Brighton Rock.
Most of the Brighton Rock ideas are there - a protagonist conflicted by his Catholic upbringing, an eternally optimistic female foil (or skirt, to use the parlance of the times), and violence as a means of conflict resolution.
But whereas Brighton Rock was a complete and coherent novel, some parts of A Gun For Sale just didn't work.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
Κανά-δυο απιθανότητες (sic) στην πλοκή όπως και κανά-δυο απροσεξίες στη μετάφραση/επιμέλεια δεν μείωσαν ούτε στο ελάχιστο την απόλαυση που πρόσφερε αυτό το βιβλίο.
Short novel, read again in an afternoon. Enlists sympathy for its assassin Raven, with his background of a hanged father, a mother who cut her throat on the kitchen table and a 'home'. Anne befriends him and he trusts for the first time in his life. A social-conscience tearjerker in the guise of a thriller.
Graham Greene's "A Gun for Sale' is quite entertaining, well written, and gripping from beginning to the end.Raven, the main character, is a hit man.
He is hired, carries out the job, is paid and disappears, except this time he is paid with stolen, marked, money.Raven, is an ugly man, with a hare-lip.
He is the character that carries the story and through chance encounters, dreams, and reflections we come to understand and sympathize with him on all levels, but especially as a man who lives with a deformity that society shuns and little children look away in horror.
He had only seen the Minister once: he had been pointed out to Raven as he walked down the new housing estate between the small lit Christmas trees, an old grubby man without friends , who was said to love humanity."Another one of Greene's crime thrillers - complete with murder, a man-hunt, a girly side-kick, an evil mastermind, and a main character who is torn apart by life's indifference.
"The only problem when you were once born was to get out of life more neatly and expeditiously than you had entered it."I'm so ready to move past this "early" stage of Greene's writing.
On first reading: Absolutely devoured this book, and definitely one to re-read. One of my favourite Graham Greene books, along with Our Man in Havana, The Human Factor, and The Honorary Consul.On second reading: Did not enjoy it as much, revised rating down from 5 stars to 3. Wonder what the third reading will be like...
4 1/2 stars...maybe even 5 stars after I have had a chance to mull it over a bit.
I devoured this thriller in one gulp because I couldn't put it down.
As in Brighton Rock, Greene has written a brilliant portrait of an anti-hero.
Raven is (in my opinion) less of a psychopath and so I had more feeling of sympathy for him.
Greene's writing is wonderfully evocative and not a word is wasted or in excess.
While I enjoyed his satires, his prose really shines in these thriller/crime novels.
only graham green could make a sympathetic figure out of a hit man.
Thanks to Shirley for letting me select from her paperbacks something to read on the flight back to China.
Believe it or not, I had not read anything by Graham Greene, though I sort of felt I would like his work.
The controlling idea here is a deliberate balance of pessimism and optimism over the human condition that despairs of our foolishness yet finds redemption in the smallest things, like the love of a bully for his wife, or the restraint of an entire community from destroying an annoying little “yap yap yap” dog, such as rich, spoiled wives of dully profiteering husbands are wont to keep.
She is kidnapped by him and he intends to kill her but a strange bond develops between them although it doesn’t follow the pattern you might expect,The novel as written at a time when it was fashionable to see wars as something that were brought about by the machinations of corrupt financiers and industrialists and it’s surprising to see a writer as intelligent as Greene falling for such naïve explanations.This is one of the books that Greene classed as “entertainments” rather than novels and it’s certainly a lesser work.
The complex personal interactions between Raven and Anne and the psychological dissection of Raven’s severely warped personality are the book’s strengths and they’re the reasons to read this book.
The murder is supposed to set various events in train that lead to another world war, but it's just a job to Raven until he discovers that he's been paid in stolen bank notes.
So Raven seeks to track down the people who double-crossed him even as he is being pursued by the police because he tried to use the stolen notes.This is a very quick read but also a fascinating one, given that it was published in 1936 and it posits the rise of a second world war.
I would also recommend this book to fans of Greene and those who like briskly moving plots coupled with substantial character study.
I picked this book up for the mere reason that it was on the sale table at the bookstore where I used to work.
Being tracked by the police, who assume his involvement in the theft of the bank notes, Raven sets off to find the man who’s betrayed him.
The style in which this story, or entertainment as Greene himself would call this work, permits a very interesting perspective of the events that occur in this story.
Who knows how long it will be before I pick up another work by Greene but I’m sure it will happen sooner or later.
Raven, a professional assassin, is hired to kill the war minister of a European country but the real action doesn’t start till he finds out that they’d paid him in stolen bank notes.
The double-crossed hit man starts a chase for revenge.It’s a fast paced thriller.
Yet while reading this book I couldn’t help thinking that I was reading some rough sketch of "Brighton Rock", his next novel.
It’s hard to ignore Pinkie and Raven’s resemblance.
Raven can easily be an older, uglier version of Pinkie and the mention of Kite’s murder in this book makes this resemblance more prominent.
Became aware of this book via an introduction to Brighton Rock and glad I did. Contrived use of coincidence but Greene does subtitle it An Entertainment. Thankfully (and in Greene's case...rarely)the christianity is keep to a minimum.
The suspense comes thick and fast, with the littlest of the sounds and coincidences culminating into twists that we can never see coming in our way.This is a thriller that I would recommend everyone to eat up and eat it up, they should for even at a slim length of less than 200 pages, it has more profundity, poetry and pitch-black darkness than any other pulp novel.
I generally like Greene, whether he’s writing literary novels or “entertainments” like this noir thriller from 1936, in which an assassin named Raven is paid to kill a government minister that sets the wheels in motion for war across Europe.
Discovering his contact Cholmondely has set him up by paying him with stolen bank notes, Raven goes on the run from the police to track down the people who double-crossed him.
It’s a great set-up, and the basic story is a well-paced page turner.
I will also offer some comment on the substance of the book which occurred to me as I read the book for a second time.] Early Graham Greene, this 1936 novel (which hit American book stores under the title THIS GUN FOR HIRE and which became the basis for the 1942 noir classic with Alan Ladd and Veronica Lake) becomes highly entertaining starting about three-quarters of the way through.
The book is still new to me, but it's fresh in my mind.) One of the parallels is between the hired assassin, Raven and the cop, Mather.
I read a 1963 Penguin edition.Written just prior to Brighton Rock, A Gun For Sale is a thriller about Raven, a hired killer, where Graham Greene began developing the character for Pinkie.
Comparing the way Greene has changed elements of the killer to Brighton Rock is fascinating.
Raven's evil character comes from his horrendous childhood and parents, and embellished with having a facial disfigurement as well as being ugly, to enhance a sense of corruption and evil.
It was the Catholic theology woven into a gangster crime novel that turned me right off Brighton Rock initially.
