https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73051.Better_than_Life
Trapped in Virtual Reality17 March 2016 I version I was reading was actually part of the Red Dwarf Omnibus which, along with the first two books, also has the script of the original radio play, and the pilot episode that they used to pitch to the TV executives (and as was suggested, at the time TV executives were very reluctant to take on a science fiction show, despite the fact that at the time Doctor Who was a rip-roaring success). Anyway, in the script for the pilot episode there was a line w
Trapped in Virtual Reality17 March 2016	I version I was reading was actually part of the Red Dwarf Omnibus which, along with the first two books, also has the script of the original radio play, and the pilot episode that they used to pitch to the TV executives (and as was suggested, at the time TV executives were very reluctant to take on a science fiction show, despite the fact that at the time Doctor Who was a rip-roaring success).
I've run into a couple of 1-star books recently and since I loved the first one in this series I thought I'd plug it in here to end that negative trend.
Unfortunately I believe this is the last book in their collaboration (although the ending was set for possibly more).
A little bit of Ready Player One well before that book was ever released; a little bit of Douglas Adams but I'd say even more brilliant in certain respects; and just a load of inventive genius.
I highly recommend these two books to fans of entertainment in general.
Funny book! Best line (and perfect description of "Cat"):God, it was cruel to have been born a male, and have a reflection that was also male, forcing him into a platonic relationship with his own image.
The book is just as readable and cleverly written I guess it just didnt hit it off as well as the first book which is strange consider it too took liberties with the storyline.
Nem sei o que mais gostei nessa continuação. O jogo Better Than Life, a sinuca com planetas, o depósito de lixo, as baratas, as chuvas mortais, a macarronada, a torradeira, o polimorfo...Divertidíssimo.
The good news is that they convert over to story-book version well.
You already know the characters so a lot of the work has already been done for you, this story was already been made into an episode, so even more work has been done for ya...maybe even a crap author could produce a good book from this?
Luckily Grant Naylor is a really good writer and has produced an excellent book.Reading this you'll laugh out loads, some of the laughs will be from what has been written and the others will be from bits you remember from the show.
As good as 'Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers' though qualitatively fairly different. Despite being shorter, 'Better Than Life' presents a very in depth look at the dangers of being able to have whatever we want, whenever we want. A comedy book that explores the darkest nature of the human psyche? Only Grant Naylor could pull that off flawlessly. Amazing.
It was funny, but it suffered because I watched the TV show first. I'd definitely recommend it to those who haven't.
Nějak to není ono. Všichni dělají, co dělat mají, říkají, co říkat mají, ale tady to na seriál nemá. Jasně, má to svůj jasný děj, propojení i spád, ale je vidět, že tomu něco chybí. I když silné (no dobře, specificky trpaslíkovské) momenty to má - třeba oproti originálu onu "planetu odpadu" nebo rozehrání myšlenky hry Lepší než život hned na začátku.PS: Baví mě větší prostor věnovaný mluvícímu toastovači - mé (guilty pleasure) oblíbené postavě seriálu.PSS: Nedal by si někdo toast? ;-)
Much faster than the other one for some reason, though they're the same size. Weird.There were two parts of the story that had me in stitches. The first involved the incredible shrinking trousers and the second involved the description of time going thataway. Just hilarious all-round. I actually snorted at one point I was shaking from laughing so hard. And this was while on the bus! Oh well.
The audio book recordings by Chris Barrie are amazing. He does all the voices so well.The first book is the better of the two, but this is well worth a listen and reminisce.
IT'S SO GOOD
I enjoyed the movies and figured the books would be insightful.Plot:At the end of "Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers", Lister, Rimmer, Cat, and Kryten were stuck in a video game--"Better than Life".
I enjoyed reading about Lister on garbage world, fighting the acid rain, befriending the cockroaches, the effects of time when in close contact with a black hole (it is cool how the book attempts sometimes to be scientific--just don't trusts the planet pool!), and even reading about the origins of the polymorph.
The Better Than Life bit.
That's why I wanted to read this book.
And, that part of the book was great, but after that, it turns to complete horseshit.Better Than Life is the most addictive game ever developed.
Where Rimmer is rich as balls, with all the hot bitches, and the biggest penis on the planet.
Seriously, Rimmer goes to his Personal Body Tailor, because his current body had gotten a bit wrinkled.
"The penis could be a bit bigger," Rimmer says.
But again, who the fuck cares?So, here's some advice, if you want to read this book.
Stop reading when they get out of Better Than Life.


The last third of this book made me feel an aching nostalgia for something lost. Red Dwarf is, admittedly, a very special show from childhood. This is the first book I've read on the theme and it takes the humour, panache, style of the television show and amplifies it with an adult-humour edge. The book itself is quite base level, a few made-up words and a few sentences which had me reaching for the dictionary, but, all in all most enjoyable.
Přešla jsem na trpasličí stranu...
Trhlé
However, Rimmer's psyche is so ridiculously self-loathing that he cannot stand to see himself or his friends happy, and it sets out to destroy them...Better Than Life, published in 1990 when the Red Dwarf TV show was on hiatus for a year, is the follow-up to Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers and is the last novel written by Rob Grant and Doug Naylor as a team.
But Lister learning the eventual fate of Earth and rising to become the leader of an entire community (kind of) is well-handled.Better Than Life (****½) is a stronger novel than its forebear, cleverer, funnier and more enjoyable than that already-strong book.
It is amazing to see how some of the facts in the book line up so closely with some of the episodes from the TV series.
The character of Lister grows greater and you can see the entire crew becoming more substantial as their characters grow.
Lister being the greatest of all of them for specific reasons.
You see more into their subconscious as well as knowing that they are learning in their round about ways.
Also meet the toaster that is obnoxious, proud and a show off in many a way.
Another good book in the series bring on the next one.
Take my review of Red Dwarf #1, Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers and shove it in a blender. Then add: - 1 cup of appreciation for fun, intense action.- A couple slices of anxiety over an epic, polymorphic antagonist.- 1 scoop of love towards a talking toaster (with pretty good leadership skills, actually).- Sprinkle in 2 scoops of gratitude for the many wonderful sci-fi components, such as: black holes; virtual reality games gone wild; planetary billiards; heat-seeking explosive bolts; and, of course, six other universes that run in reverse time.Blend until well-mixed. Chug. Belch. Live long and prosper.
Second part of Red Dwarf series is even more wackier and funnier then first one. I did enjoy first part but it was overshadow of perfect TV series which use most of the scenes in the book (or more likely the book use most of the scenes from series). However this second part is original and it is brilliant. And the narrator ohhh Chris Barrie is doing such a good job. It is more like full-cast performance then simple narration.
There isn't great continuity in the Red Dwarf books. The first book ends with them pretty much decided to leave 'Better than Life'. This book start off with it again, and takes the story to a very illogical conclusion. The talking toaster is a great character that had a brief life on the TV Show. It does a great job in this book.The problem for me was the whole Lister fighting for his life on the trash planet. It easy could have been removed.
This book and the other in the series are both great, must listens for every Red Dwarf fan. They are just as funny as the show, but also go more in-depth narratively, emotionally, and philosophically. Also Chris Barrie's Lister impression is better than Craig Charles, okay maybe not better, but almost indistinguishable. The same goes for his impersonations of Cat, Kryten, and Holly.
The first third of this book almost made me quit - highly misogynistic language for the female characters in the beginning due to Rimmer's pov. But then the writing goes back to normal and wackiness continues.
The book started rather boring because the whole BTL thing went on for too long. Once the part with Garbage World started it felt like a completely new and much better book. All in all I would still recommend it to fans of the series and people that like absurd humour 😎
A solid read, with the characters we all know and love. If you do know the series well there are no real surprises, but the additional detail and immersion of the book makes it enjoyable none the less.
If you are a fan of the TV series this is a must read book.It is rather different that the TV show in the best way possible. More details, more laughs, more everything good.Like any good series the book just leaves me wanting more!
Not as good as the first one, but still enjoyable. There are several "episodes" contained in this book, some better than others which makes it, in my opinion, uneven. Chris Barrie continues to do wonders voicing the characters. I think it's time to appreciate the TV series again!
