https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/763806.Childhood_and_Society
Enough toilet humour.I had the sense though of several cultural threads coming together and getting knotted up before flowing out to no doubt influence a generation or two of readers in ways I am not yet aware of (view spoiler)[ in case you are wondering, while he does think that toilet training and breast feeding are important he doesn't make any specific recommendations, remarking ruefully that the child of a psychoanalytic family when asked what he wanted to be when he grew up answered: "a patient" (hide spoiler)]
His prose is very easy to read, but also dusted with a literary flair.
Psychology seems to me, at its best, to be a true literary science.
I would hope that this would be an empowering statement for literature rather than a detracting statement for psychology.
( I fully realize empowering and detracting are poor words here but I can't think in the moment of a better wording.) Erikson also seems to me to be steeped in humanism rather than humanitarianism.

We were assigned to read this book for the Human Growth and Development course taught by the Psychology Department at Union Theological Seminary in New York during the second semester of 1975/76. While I very much enjoyed Erikson's Young Man Luther and Gandhi's Truth, I found this rather boring.
I love Erikson's 8 stages of man
Erikson has a very intriguing way of writing about psychology and sociology.
I found his discussion about how the somatic, ego, and society affect the human neurosis and psychology very interesting.
He loves the idea of play as healing, feels the idea of "bosses" will degrade our American identity, and in general truly "sees" everyone.
I enjoyed this book and it created many fun conversations with my mate about identity, intimacy, and the generativity stage that we are in now."The only healthy American way to write about America for Americans is to vent a gripe and to overstate it."
I read this book when I was getting my degree in Behavioral Science, and found it to be one of the books I referred to most often with regard to childhood development. I still find it to be quite relevant.
Erikson is not the most original psychoanalytic theorist but his stages of human development over the lifespan of an individual is fascinating. I have found it quite useful in my work as a clergy person, chaplain and pastoral care giver.
I give it a low rating ultimately because I found that Erikson's prose was difficult to understand and somewhat obscure, although I have no doubt he knew what he was talking about, and he knew it well.There is copious and detailed information about developmental stages, from a purely psychoanalytic standpoint.
I took a great deal of notes from this book, as I wanted to apply his ideas to my work as a Montessori teacher of young children.
No doubt a more experienced reader could find links to the current American situation, but I did not.Recommended only for experienced and professional psychoanalists and their work.
This book will probably feel more like an ethnography than an exploration of psychology to many people who read itbook today.
I find it definitely a good read despite being an old text.
I expected it to be like a very basic and outdated foundational psychology course, but I was surprised at how much of Erikson's insight is relevant to our times.
Of course, the field has learned more since Erikson's time, but his writings are still surprisingly progressive.
That way it's easier to discern which of Erikson's writings are outdated and which can still be applicable today.
I found this book fascinating and contained a wealth of knowledge and a range of insights from Erikson's clinical experience and his vast cultural and sociological expertise.
He covered a wealth of topics, including childhood anxiety, apathy in Amercian Indians, confusion in war veterans and arrogance in young Nazis.
I enjoyed reading about Fanny the Shaman, Jean and her mother and JIm the Sioux.
He comments that his book is a subjective book, a conceptual itinerary.An interesting quote is:'Political systems have thrived on the provocation of manifold and morbid doubt.'Another quote struck me: 'They the never-silent metronome of routine into the impressionable baby...'
Erikson opened up classical psychoanalysis to cultural influences and constraints when he published this work in 1952.
It has since remained a classic of psychosocial literature.
In this book Erikson proposes his general theory of the eight stages of psychosocial development across the life style (a reinterpretation and extension of Freud's five stages).
He presents his work using the psychoanalytic terms and perspective, which might be a turn off to you if you dislike that school.
However, the theory is certainly novel and this book gives the best overview.
Erikson draws on his experience working with two American Indian cultures to illustrate the basic principles of his theory.
Insightful non-science, it's hard to decide where to put this kind of book in the file cabinet of my brain. The chapter on play is the most informative. The chapters on Hitler's and Gorky's youth are tedious waste of time.
This book proposed a lot of interesting topics and correlations. Some I agree with, some struck me as being very profound, and others I didn't agree with. I still think it's a good book for any psychology student.
The "Eight Stages of Man" chapter is really a must-read. It represents a certain way of thinking about the psyche that is very powerful and will make sense to anyone who's thought about developmental issues.
This book has been profound on the interpretation of human life, since childhood, in a psychoanalytic perspective. Laden with psychological jargon but I've learnt so much of anxiety, apathy and taming the id. A subjective book but interesting nonetheless.
Had to read this in order to familiarize myself better with Erikson's theories. Interesting to read the original text; it made me want to know more about Erikson's biography.
just start reading~~
Thoughtful reflections on the stages of life. Some of his ideas and observations are still relevant today but most are dated.
