https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767307.The_Angel_of_Darkness
If we succeed in bringing Libby Hatch to trial, it won't be just the outrage of the humble citizens in town like Ballston Spa that we'll have to deal with. No, no - all the mighty weight of this sparkling society will come crashing down on our heads, too. For it's the essence of hypocrisy, isn't it, Doctor, that it requires masks to hide behind? And the masks of the idyllic home and the sanctity of motherhood are the first and most untouchable of all. Carr is looking at the female as serial kil
He says that although male serial killers reap the most publicity, women are no less likely to slaughter en masse.
Carr puts forth the notion that if society was not so over-invested in defining the role of women as necessarily maternal and nurturing, some of the gentler sex mass killers might not have become the monsters they became.
Doctor Kreizler and his pals pursue the trail of Libby Hatch, identified as the kidnapper of the daughter of the Spanish ambassador.
Here is a nice brief bio of Carr on AlchetronBTW his novel, The Alienist, is being developed by TNT as a series.
He is a pioneering Alienist, and together with John Moore, Sara Howard, the Isaacsons and Kreizler's servant, Cyrus, a riveting and at times edge-of-your-seat adventure springs forth.Carr is so good that before you realize it you are in Old New York at the turn of the century, and so in-love with these people that you hate to leave them for sleep or work.
When that last page is turned you will do so reluctantly, sad that such a great book has ended.The characters Carr creates are all too human and real, as is the time period.
Description: In The Angel of Darkness, Caleb Carr brings back the vivid world of his bestselling The Alienist but with a twist: this story is told by the former street urchin Stevie Taggert, whose rough life has given him wisdom beyond his years.
Kreizler and his friends--high-living crime reporter John Schuyler Moore; indomitable, derringer-toting Sara Howard; the brilliant (and bickering) detective brothers Marcus and Lucius Isaacson; powerful and compassionate Cyrus Montrose; and Stevie Taggert, the boy Kreizler saved from a life of street crime--have returned to their former pursuits and tried to forget the horror of the Beecham case.
I remember thinking this book was incredible the first time around.
You can't be all like, "I'm Stevie Taggert which means I'm all about turn of the century New York street patois even though my diction is actually really elevated and the only difference between my speaking style and that of John Moore, a Harvard-educated New York Times reporter from a high society family, is that I say "what" instead of "that" but I don't even do that all the time anyway." Also, the villain wasn't interesting and nothing really happened.
I wouldn't even rate this book so lowly if it wasn't by the same guy.
It's disappointing to read this kind of crap from someone you know can actually write.
Nowhere near as good as Carr's first effort - The Alienist. This just seemed like a bad clone of that book where Carr was trying to incorporate the same elements. Unfortunately the story wasn't as good and it felt forced. It has all the same characters that you loved in The Alienist but for some reason it just didn't make me swoon the way its predecessor did. Do yourself a favor and stop with The Alienist. This one was just unnecessary.
El alienista, la primera de las novelas protagonizadas por el psicólogo Laszlo Kreizler, me pareció muy entretenida, plantea un tema atrayente, la ambientación en el Nueva York de finales del s.
En palabras del señor Moore –narrador de la primera novela– el manuscrito, cualquiera que fuese el espíritu de la narrativa, quedaba lamentablemente deslucido por una vergonzosa carencia de estilo.
Y el señor Moore tiene toda la razón.Los protagonistas no parecen los mismos que los del libro anterior, y los diálogos son artificiales.
It took me two years after I read The Alienist to pick up its sequel.
Finding the criminal was only a third of the story, the rest was the challenge of putting the criminal into justice - a slow painful methodical procedure was essential every step of the way.
Yes, there are plenty of distressful historical materials, being a Carr book.
I salute Carr for writing the first decent character of a Filipino in fiction that I have read so far.There are two amazing characteristics of this series that I love most since The Alienist.
I've always had a personal law that requires I finish any book I start.
It all started when I tried to read The Devil Wears Prada and was forced to throw it out the window in horror and disgust after 25 pages.
That's when I realized I needed to amend the law to specify that I don't have to finish books so poorly written that I end up holding them out away from myself with two fingers while cringing as if they reek of garbage while I read.
It's like my life is my own again!I'm about 25 pages into The Angel of Darkness here.
The responsibility of the author is to create a window into the past world, and a way for readers to understand that world both within the context of its own time period and our own.(This is part of the reason it takes so darned long to write historical fiction.)Carr handles the role of women fairly deftly in this book: there are two female central characters and a host of secondary characters who each shed light on the limits and opportunities faced by (white) women during the time frame and settings of this book.
I really enjoyed The Alienist, the first book by Caleb Carr about Dr. Laszlo Kreizler and his "colleagues".
This story is narrated by the teenage Stevie Taggert, the street kid that Dr. Kriezler has taken in, and saved from a life of crime.
In a short amount of time, Sarah reassumbles the group and they pinpoint the suspect as Elsbeth Hunter.
With her many aliases, Elsbeth has traveled around New York kidnapping, and killing children.Like the previous book, there were some cameos with great historical figures.
Stevie's narration of the story was a nice touch, and I appreciated seeing it from his vantage point.

This is one the worst books that I've actually read all the way through...though I'm not sure why I even bothered.
I don't disagree, but I do have some problems with the way the author attempted to prove this idea, which I think he considers more controversial than it really is.
Or maybe he (Carr) just has the doctor character repeat the point so many times because he doesn't trust the readers to get it if it isn't spelled out over and over.
Also, another annoyance I had with the book was the frequent introduction of historic persons from the era as fictionalized characters.
This review was written in the late nineties (just for myself), and it was buried in amongst my things until today, when I uncovered the journal it was written in.
I have transcribed it verbatim from all those years ago (although square brackets indicate some additional information for the sake of readability).
It is one of my lost reviews.I thought Japheth Drury was bad, but I hadn't met Libby Hatch.
My favourite moment requires note: Teddy squaring off against Goo Goo Knox.
The Irishman swings his axe handle, Teddy catches it, tears it free, and smacks Goo Goo across the skull.
The first 1/4 of this book started slow and had me worried that what I liked so much about the Alienist would not be present in this sequel.
Stevie's love interest is a cocaine addicted whore who has hooked up with a particularly nasty gang member ( what could go wrong?) I also enjoyed the bickering brothers who were the police detectives helping with this case but my favorite side character is a new one called El Niño who brings a sense of mystery and humor to the story.As with The Alienist many historical figures make an appearance and for the most part enhance my enjoyment of the story.
The Flaws:1) Female characters killed off to advance a man's character development, no matter how gratuitous.2) Said female character was a coke fiend who didn't notice her coke was laced with arsenic.
She didn't notice her own cocaine was, shall we say, OFF?3) Only one female character with lines, who represents everything of the Strong Female Character.4) Everyone else was a dude.
The most gratuitous historical sausagefest I've ever seen.5) Only neurotypical characters get to live.
Progressive.2) Inclusion of historical figures turns gratuitous and insulting to my intelligence.3) No actual profiling of the serial killer.
3.5 starsAn exciting story which has you alternately sitting on the edge of your seat waiting for what is coming next and sitting back enjoying the descriptive (background) passages.
Sometimes it did feel like Carr was dwelling too long on certain past incidents or backgrounds that, at least to me, were not that interesting, though not often.
I really grew to like the main characters, felt a connection, even to the more secondary characters.
All in all a very good read that made me curious about the first book in this series (this one was given to me as a gift).
Definitely want to read that one as well!
While the Alienist seem to be the classic of the two Dr. Kriezler books (it's ranked near the top of the 'best of' fictional crime book lists), I think Angel of Darkness was a far better book in both quality of writing and storytelling. While AOD is longer than the Alienist, the added length is justified with a more satisfying complicated plot and better character development. I just hope there will be at least a third book, taking place towards the end of Kriezler's career in some final epic case, written from his point of view.
Love these two books. This is the sequel to The Alienist and is a turn of the century (more or less) historical mystery, set in New York. That would be last century, by the way.
The cast is all here, and a few more characters show up, including one of the all-time bad women you'll ever read about--who unfortunately reminded me of a few people I used to know, but that's a review for another day.NYC in the late 1890s is brought to vivid life again, but with a bit more of a bittersweet tinge to the tale, as Stevie also writes about his love at the time, a drug addict / prostitute who never had a chance to go straight.
John Schuyler Moore, the New York Times reporter who narrated the first book comes off as more whiny here, which did not seem consistent (but then, we are getting his character from a different perspective).
This time, Carr's story is narrated by Stevie Taggert, the young hoodlum Kreizler rescued from the Randall Island reformatory for boys and made his assistant/servant.
The change of narrator is refreshing at first, especially in the introductory chapter when it was revealed that the manuscripts of the Alienist and The Angel of Darkness were part of a bet made by John Schuyler Moore and Taggert.
Why should we believe any differently of a woman?”This was a wonderful but long and twisted story.
It was wonderful to learn more about the characters and to jump in time, but I didn't like Moore as much in this one as I had in the last.
It was interesting learning things from Stevie's POV.
He had a definite different way about viewing the world and sometimes it took me a moment or two to remember that.As to the case and how it progresses, it was a sad case - and one that wasn't always easy to read but I did enjoy it and can't wait for the next in the series!
Sadly, this sequel to "The Alienist" is missing the former's drive and suspense, but it is nice to meet the characters again (this time from a different perspective due to a different narrator) and the case itself is interesting. I guess the problem with the plot is that - as another review here put it - not much is happening, as most of the story concerns the investigators researching the suspect's past crimes while the actual case of kidnapping is put on the backburner for the majority of the novel.
This was another solid book with a lot of historical influences and a very well built (multiple) crime case.You have to admire the writer`s efforts for bringing in to discussion the different atitude of the law towards a women serial killer.Also this time the book follows more the way the American Judicial System worked in that peculiar period of time and her chase has a small percentage in the whole story.Overall another good addition on my historical crime shelf.Four stars!
This was another solid book with a lot of historical influences and a very well built (multiple) crime case.You have to admire the writer`s efforts for bringing in to discussion the different atitude of the law towards a women serial killer.Also this time the book follows more the way the American Judicial System worked in that peculiar period of time and her chase has a small percentage in the whole story.Overall another good addition on my historical crime shelf.Four stars!
While not quite the yarn of The Alienist, I was very captivated by the story in the book. Emotional and driven, at times a little sluggish, it never failed to pick up speed and keep me going. I would love to have seen more of Mrs. Hatch but still a great read.
This installment was okay, but I didn't enjoy it near as much as The Alienist. Having Stevie as narrator was somewhat disappointing. I look forward to the next installment, as I adore all these characters immensely, especially Sara and Tom..
I'm actually glad that I waited a good while after I finished The Alienist before I started in on this one, because this book is really completely different.
The idea behind this book is to show the disparity between what women are capable of and what society is willing to acknowledge.
This was about really looking at a female serial killer and acknowledging the differences between males while never excusing or dismissing the behavior simply because of her sex.
If I had gone into this book with no real preconceived notions of where this book would go, I feel like I might have enjoyed it even more.
While it took me almost three full weeks to read this book, it wasn't because it was terrible.
The fact of the matter was that the book was so detailed, so richly drawn, so atmospheric, that I had to sometimes reread parts to see if I missed anything.
To my surprise, I often, however, missed little more than more detail and atmosphere.
I did like the idea that "new" techniques like fingerprinting and criminal sketching were in their infancy as far as police policy went, but it wasn't nearly enough to make this book anything better than an OK read.
I picked up this book expecting it to be not as good as "The Alienist" and was satisfied with another New York adventure circa 1897.
One thing I appreciated about the book was how dark it got at times.
Despite the serial killer's mutilations of children in "the Alienist", I found the killer in "The Angel of Darkness" much more terrifying, although not at first.Then, the characters had interesting bad moments too.
The characters were fleshed out and became real; as opposed to heroes, they were flawed people doing right.Not as fastly paced as the first book but definitely worth reading for whoever enjoyed "The Alienist."
Overall, a great sequel to the first Laszlo Kreizler novel, The Alienist! There were moments where the historical figures inserted into the book seemed a little strange and I was pretty much left going, "Riiiight...". But, somehow, it didn't bother me because the situations were so incredibly entertaining and, I felt, pretty well-written. It was a fantastic novel filled with fun surprises, nice (if somewhat strange) appearances of actual historical figures, and plenty of suspense, thrills, and emotion. Loved it!
I read first book in the series, The Alienist, a few years ago and despite the mediocre writing, I really liked it a lot, particularly due to the psychological aspect of it. Plus I loved Dr. Laszlo's character. He's brilliant, IMO! The historical element of the novel is great, too. Having said that, I hadn't realized (until just now) that Caleb Carr has written a second book. I am stoked now!!
