https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60561.Does_It_Matter_
Someone had sloppily written "No" in black marker just beneath the question mark on the cover.
In this series of essays, Alan Watts gives a snarky, matter-of-fact, spiritual approach to how we treat ourselves, each other, and the other living things on this planet.
Reading this book was a brilliantly comical and realistic inspiration, and I am still absorbing his other material.Note: You can also download podcasts of his lectures online.
This collection of essays have some great insight on the futility of materialism.
I particularly love the essays on money and food.
I don't particularly agree with his theories on clothing, but I admire his willingness to wear suits when dealing with academia on the "when in Rome" clause.
Of the seven short essays, most of them were a little too hippie-dippy for me, but the analysis of Huxley and Buddhism was interesting.
Overall, I enjoyed this book and would recommend it to those toying with Eastern ideas, since Watts comes from the West he can better explain the concepts than Thick Dick Hahn or other Zen Buddhists.

So in order to live, we have to annihilate and cannot run away from that fact and may as well recognise and accept that and extend love to what we consume (including humane animal husbandry) and honour our food (like in the movie Avatar...give thanks for the sacrifices the animal has made to serve you) and appreciate it and not waste it.The chapter on his experiments with psychedelic drugs (a trend of his times but he apparently consumed under research supervision) to understand if there were parallels to religious/spiritual experiences was interesting but I wonder if his experience really matched what he read from other spiritual sources, or his mind just assumed that?
Alan Watts, what a hippie.This book is pretty dated, largely evidenced by the numerous analogies to "bringing pleasure to a beautiful woman," but his thesis is still pertinent--that we ignore materials in favor of symbols of reality..."we'd rather eat the menu than the meal". He supports this thesis by sounding off (with more than a dash of pretense) on everything from the design of a kitchen, men's business attire, and psychedelics. my favorite is when he compares a high heel to "a stag beetle with an immense erection." ha!
You didn't; you came out of it, as a branch from a tree.""The ego (like money) is a concept, a symbol, even a delusion-not a biological process or physical reality.""Because we cannot relate to the sensuous and material present we are most happy when good things are expected to happen, not when they are are happening.""Clothes, like our roles and personalities should be worn easily and lightly in the realization that, because the whole universe is a masquerade, we may as well do it with the utmost flair and elegance.""If you know you are a fraud from the beginning, you can afford to be exuberant and flamboyant.""The basic point to be understood is that it is simply impossible to improve either onself or the world by force.""While living be a dead man, thoroughly dead.
There is much to decry about the way our culture has evolved over the last 50 years and in these essays Watts does a magnificent job of pointing them up, he does however retain in the commentary, hope.
Placed mainly in the (then 60's and 70's) young; perhaps given the way the century proceeded one might say that he misplaced that hope.
I am in despair of the world left to my grandchildren and Alan Watts had the direction of that drift pegged in mid century.
This book was given to me by Karen as I dipped my toes into the world of spirituality. At the time it was given to me (2000 or 2001) it was dog-eared and worn. I still have it in my favorite "I'd really like to read it again" basket.At the same time I acquired a copy of The Taboo Against Knowing Who You Are. I read Taboo first - and this later. I must say I feel like I "got" Taboo more, but this book was clever - and I enjoyed it very much.
Grounded in the late sixties/early seventies view of anti-materialism, Alan Watts' short book of essays is little bit of hippie-dippy philosophy that is both naive and wise. Like a lot of idealists, his solutions to what ails the world are often simplistic, but his observations about our relationship with our goods is spot on.
The one thing that has really stuck with me from reading this book is that it won't be a materialist who destroys the world in nuclear holocaust, because a materialist loves the material too much for that. It will be a spiritual fanatic who will press the button that ends the world.
You'll have no trouble recognizing these essays, written in the mid to late sixties, as being a product of that period. But while some of Watt's specific points and complaints sound dated, a lot of them are still relevant.
Nice book with several short essays on things as varied as food, religion, cannabis and psychedelics, and clothing. Fun to read Watts.
really funny and relieving. watt's finally stops speaking abstractly and lays down wit and amazing insight on every topic.
Given that it was written so long ago it was a very succinct read. His insights were very fascinating. Want to read more of his work.
Entertaining and enlightening. Excellent.
If I could live as Watts lived, perhaps I'd Be at peace. This book is inspiring even if the state of mind is nigh impossible to one living in a capitalist society.
Clearly a set of essays anyone with an open mind should read. Why? That's for each person to figure out for themselves. A true visionary.
This book is a collection of essays. As such it is not a good introduction to Alan Watts but should appeal to anyone that is already familiar with Watts.
Essays on kitchens and dress came off as dated, though I enjoyed the Seven Short Essays which more closely contained the best of his lectures
I still don't know...does it matter?
Watts makes some claims that seem true today like collecting experiences rather than things or objects...but at the end of the day I don't really think experiences really matter either since all memories are lost once we pass on anyway.
Yes, we still continue to confuse money with wealth, but what is the way out of the social construct of money?
And does wealth even really matter?
I find it fascinating how prescient this was considering it was written in the 70s, but I don't think it quite answers many of the questions we face today.
He a very entertaining person to listen to and has an amazing perspective of reality and Western culture.
I've found that when reading a book written by him I have to imagine the words as if they are spoken.
His writing style isn't exactly written to be read, it's almost as if he has transcribed his speeches.
It takes nothing from the book, but it tripped me up until I caught on.Even if you have an extensive background in Eastern philosophy I definitely recommend reading this.
It's a great eye-opener to some of the strange ways culture has taught us to think and well worth the (sadly) quick read.
This is definitely the most negative piece of work I've read from watts.
Some pessimistic/ apocalyptic assumptions that didn't come true.
However, it's still jam packed with goodies from one of the more interesting thinkers of the 20th century.
Essays on wealth vs money, murder in the kitchen, clothes, and much more Buddhist philosophy.
Ive yet to find any work of his that does not thoroughly apply to this day about the nature of the human condition.
Only giving it three stars because I've listened to so many lectures and read other material by him.
If someone has a doctorate in divinity you fuck*n listen.
I have found something worthwhile in every Alan Watts book I have read. This is a collection of essays. At different times in my life I imagine different essays would be more significant than others. Right now, the essay Wealth Versus Money is what is of value in this book. The rest had moments of interest but nothing that really grabbed me, therefore, I give it 3 stars for the one essay I did quite enjoy.
Did not enjoy this as much as I thought I would and did not read it completely. I found the writing style hard to bear. Maybe it was because most of the ideas are familiar to me and I just not had the patience to listen to them in a new presentation again. Maybe I will come back to Watts and/or this book later.The end of the book has an essay on Daisetz Susuki which is brilliant and worth getting the book for alone.
I wanted this book to be so much better than it was... Not that it was bad, but it felt more like an historical document of the 60s-70s and less like pertinent (soft) philosophy for today.His best article here is the first one: Wealth Versus Money. I also liked his short piece of Dr. Suzuki. After a plug like Watts's, I may have to go check out Dr. S. next.
He always made so much sense.
Cynical. Watts drones on about any and everything after predicting the demise of the US by the year 2000. Not worth reading unless you're a Debbie downer looking for a philosophical framework from which to project your misery onto the world. Decent critique of the culture of academia in the introduction, but all down hill from there.
When I read an Alan Watts essay I feel as if he is grabbing me by the shoulders, shaking me silly, and telling to wake up and pay attention. There is energy and passion in his Buddhist and Hindu inspired philosophy, not to mention a lot of blunt force honesty.
i loved his chapter "murder in the kitchen" i also loved his explanation on the usage of psychedelics
i did not want to finish this.
