https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84135.Sins_of_the_Night
Alexion. Finally a winner. I knew it'd happen eventually. “Yeah, you’re an ancient Greek all right.”“What’s that supposed to mean?”She shrugged. “Well, we all know about you ancient Greeks. You were a friendly bunch with each other. Wrestling naked, groping each other’s heinies.”“We were not!” he snapped angrily.Finally, she got some real emotion out of him. She was actually proud of herself.“Please, it’s all over the history books. You guys were always shacking up with each other. Even Achilles
Alexion.
Finally a winner.
I knew it'd happen eventually.
“Yeah, you’re an ancient Greek all right.”“What’s that supposed to mean?”She shrugged.
“Well, we all know about you ancient Greeks.
Wrestling naked, groping each other’s heinies.”“We were not!” he snapped angrily.Finally, she got some real emotion out of him.
She was actually proud of herself.“Please, it’s all over the history books.
You guys were always shacking up with each other.
Even Achilles was shacked up with Patroclus.
I enjoyed this book immensely.
His loneliness touched an inner, foreign part of her.
It touched the part of her that was like him.
Danger or Dangereuse St. Richard (Hunter) and Alexion (Shade)The Prologue of the book was quite frightening.
Daimons were our usual good looking, disgusting human soul-eaters.Later , I happily visited Katoteros, i.e. the place where Acheron, Simi and Alexion live.
I highly recommend that you read the short novel “The Beginning (Dark-Hunterverse 0.5)”, if you want to learn the tragic story of Alexion and how he became firstly a dark hunter and later on a kind of Shade.Alexion will meet Danger when he visits the human realm again on a mission.
This is another compelling and entertaining book in Dark-Hunter series!
It had me hooked from the very start.The romance in this story is not as good as the previous one.
Moreover, the story was so intense and exciting that it pulled me into this story completely.After reading 6 books in this series, Acheron has never stopped to amaze me with his generosity and all the things he had done for humans and Dark-Hunters.
The more I’ve known about him, the more I want to read his book!I know this is not a good review and I'm so sorry for that.
I’m not satisfied with this book. Sins of the Night is mediocre at best, both in storyline, characters, and style.The story starts good, a paradoxical situation given and a man (or being) without equal. That already makes you expect something peculiar. Doubt stared out from the dark depths of her eyes. “Then prove it.”That was easier said than done. “Prove it how? The only way to prove to you that I’m not out to kill you is to not kill you.” But it is all ruined. Another rebellion against Achero
In Sins of the Night Alexion is here to judge Danger and other Dark-Hunters.
But while the development of the love between Zarek and Astrid was impressively detailed, the delineation of Alexion and Danger’s love is superficial.The story is of full of repetitions.
Not only phrases, but action-lines, and thoughts are repeated as well.• The reader is continuously reported to about Alexion’s thoughts revolving around his loneliness, his inability to taste, to feel, etc.• You are also told many times how Danger was betrayed and killed by her husband – yes, it’s sad, but repeating it again and again doesn’t make it more impressive.• Danger is repeatedly surprised by Alexion’s godlike powers.
This book is the story of Alexion (the boy), and Danger (the girl). That's right, Danger is her first name! That's just not right! Everyone knows that Danger is a middle name, not a first name!Alexion lives with Ash in his weird-ass castle in another dimension as his butler/secretary. But, it seems there may be a little more going on than that since he is also known as Simi's "other father". "I'm Acheron's Squire." it was kind of true. Okay, not really. It was a lie, but Alexion had no intention
This book is the story of Alexion (the boy), and Danger (the girl).
That's right, Danger is her first name!
Everyone knows that Danger is a middle name, not a first name!Alexion lives with Ash in his weird-ass castle in another dimension as his butler/secretary.
I do have to give some credit to the author, though, because it takes a lot of nerve to write that sentence and expect to get away with it.The only good part of this book was that we meet Simi's sister and she is just what you would expect.
Ay no sé qué va hacer de mi no puedo dejar esta serie NO PUEDO!
!Este libro si me sorprendió un poco sobre todo por Alexion que cuando descubrí quien era me quedé 😰😰, no lo veía venir y me alegré porque durante todo la serie me quedé pensando en él y su triste final que bueno que no fue así.Me está gustando esa nuevas relaciones que no todas son humanas en este caso la protagonista es una Dark Hunter y Alexion mmm😞 descúbranlo.Este libro está lleno de traiciones y conspiraciones y el cabecilla es Stryker la verdad ya me tiene enfadada es como una piedrita en el zapato muy molesto 😡😡.
This isn't really a love story between Alexion and Danger - it's a book about who Ash really is, what demons really are, how the gods feel about each other, Ash's past, blah blah blah I don't care.
Basically, the Dark-Hunters are being approached by a demon named Stryker who is trying to convince them that Ash is not a good person and is instead an evil man who doesn't care if they die.This is ridiculous because Ash is the one who gave them immortal life, granted them revenge on their enemies, made them all millionaires, and also gave them servants.
Book 8 in the Dark Hunter series gives us a break from New Orleans and all of the drama that goes down in that city.
Anyway, Alexion is sent in as judge, jury and executioner for a bunch of Dark Hunters that have gone rogue.
And together they set about saving as many Dark Hunters as they can from being tricked into turning against Acheron.
There are still a lot of books to go before we get to Ash’s story, but bits and pieces are coming together slowly.
A lot of the Dark Hunters died in this book, and what happened with Danger just wasn't the ending I wanted.
I tried to convince myself that Danger and Alexion are happy where they are...but everyone thinks that Danger is dead.
SOB!!!I just think that Ms. Kenyon, who can pull happy endings out of nowhere, could have ended this book on a more upbeat note.That's why I can only give this one 3 stars.
Definitely not one of my favorite DH books, even though I really liked Alexion and Danger, both individually, and as a couple.
She used to live a life of sin when she first became a Dark Hunter, but now, her suspicious eyes land on Alexion, an unexplainable new pawn in this deadly game.
Despite the dire threat of Alexion and what he has come to do, Danger’s wit seems to really shine through and gives this book such a rich backdrop to explore Alexion’s character and see what makes him crack.
They hit it off and though this still isn’t my favorite book of the series, it’s still a solid instalment for the Dark Hunters.Sherrilyn Kenyon always writes one or two awesome scenes in each book and for this particular one, the Troy scene really made me laugh.
Danger, a strong and sexy female Dark-Hunter, make the difference.
2.5 starsI found this book somewhat interesting with regards to the overall storyline, but I felt no connection to the MCs or even between them. I was really turned off by the hero's desire to get laid at all costs and just felt the heroine was serving his purpose. I know they developed something more, but I never felt it. I don't think much was revealed in this one, but learned a little.Loved Xirena. She and Simi will be hilarious in future books.
Just one curiosity – Why is Acheron setting up all the Dark-Hunters in the queue for getting their souls back? Who will fight Daimons then? What is Acheron exactly? (*I know! More than one curiosity!) And of course once again,Greek Gods + Vampires + Daimons + Were-Wolves + Dark Hunters + Insignificant Humans blabbering + Of course Captivating dry humour = The whole book! Concept: 2.0/5.0Execution: 2.75/5.0 Characters Bespoken: 2.0 /5.0Cover: 1.75/5.0Overall: 2.5/5.0As for Alexion and  Dangereuse:P.S.: Simi and Xirena - lots of new information to be turned in!
Açıkçası şey istedim, hani Alexion kanla besleniyor ya doğası gereği falan fistan. Acheron’ın kanından besleniyor tek.Ha işte istedim ki Danger’dan da beslensin doldlaşdlşaNiye böyle fantezilerim var ben de bilmiyorum sormayın.Bu arada kitapta hoşuma giden bir bey daha oldu lakin şu an seri 29 kitap olmasına rağmen o hoşuma giden beyin kitabını göremedim. 29 kitapta istediğim adamın hikayesi yok allahım yarabbim delircem.Hayledie
Una de las novelas más flojas de la saga, pero no por eso deja de ser tan adictiva como las demás, que en cada entrega van develando más misterios sobre todo el entorno sobrenatural de la historia completa y, principalmente, sobre la figura de Aquerón.
Por lo mismo, ella debe lidiar con toda la información que le entrega uno de los Cazadores Oscuros más antiguos (el tercero sin contar a Aquerón) que, además, ahora es “otra cosa” como él mismo se define al principio.
Se supone que la química que sustenta las novelas de esta serie debería nacer entre ellos… pero ni por asomo.
I definitely could have never imagined it but the entire plot came together seamlessly.
At the same time, she continues to build her world and the mythology surrounding it, allowing everything to coalesce into something that you can picture yourself walking through.The lead couple in this novel was definitely unexpected.
I love the way that they came together and got to know one another.
The relationship was complex and bent the norms that Kenyon has set out for the series.
Kenyon also gave more and more insights into Acheron’s character.
I love the way that he’s gradually unfolding and becoming such a complex and intriguing character.
This novel was a fantastic addition to the series.
Absolutely horrible.
Maybe my opinion is skewed because I read this moments after finishing Tabitha's book, and Danger was another "I kick ass for a living" chicks - too similar.
I now prefer Tabitha to Danger, wow.
Alexion arrives & says he's here from Ash to save the DH's and what does Danger do...she stabs him before speaking to him and then for 75% of the book rants about her loyalty to her fellow DH's over everyone else.
I like his relationship with Simi, but otherwise he's boring.
Ash was kind of boring as well in this book, oddly enough.
Alexion es uno de los pocos personajes que conoce a Ash, la autora lo presenta como un tipo frío y sin sentimientos pero poco podremos verlos puesto que cuando se cruza con Danger cambiará casi al instante, a mí incluso esto me chocaba en ocasiones pero me gusta.En cuanto a la trama pues no es que sea de las más interesantes de la serie, le daría un aprobadillo, más que nada también por volver a lo mismo y dejarnos con un final tan rápido y sin explicarnos ciertas situaciones de los personajes de Danger y Alexion que nos deja especulando.En definitiva, no es de las mejores novelas de la serie pero es crucial para no perdernos en este mundillo de los Dark hunters.
The books in the series are starting to become too repetitive for me that I can predict what will happen next.
The insta love once again bothered me.
And it seems this series is just an insta-love series.
Other PRN books, I don't have that problem even when "love"happens quickly.
So something is missing that I can't quite figure out.Despite the rating, this book was good and most PNR lovers will probably enjoy it.
So if the book wasn't "good", I have to give it less.
But it's probably a 4 or more stars read for most PNR readers.
This was definitely one of my faves in this series..I seriously loved Alexion, Lex, Ias, hottest shade ever, whatever you want to call him..
I LOVED how little we get from other peoples POV in these books, but I guess I say that in every review..
God, I wanted to kill that dude while reading this book..Of course I always love when we get some more info on Ash, which we definitely did in this one..
And what happened to all the sex we got in this book??
Hope she keeps it up in the next book..
Me ha fascinado totalmente. Para ser el primer libro que leo sobre esta autora, debo decir que sin dudas me dejo encantada. Y la verdad es que no le tenía mucha fe, pero como fue un regalo de parte de mi tío; pos me dije "bueno, no perdemos nada con darle una oportunidad", y bueno; no me arrepiento en haberle dado todo mi tiempo a este libro y a esos encantadores personajes.
★★★★★ Sins of the Night by Sherrilyn Kenyon book 8 in Dark Hunter Series
Just when all hope is lost, Acheron surprises Lex and brings Danger back to life as "other" so they may finally have their happily ever after.I love Alexion.
Like any demon, Xirena has a mind of her own and is not afraid to share it, so it was nice to see her quelled by Alexion and Acheron a couple of times.I think this is the first book where I actually could not stand Stryker.
A cada livro que passa consegue sempre surpreender-nos e trazer-nos uma nova história original repleta de emoção.Em Pecados na Noite conhecemos Alexion, o braço direiro de Acheron, que se vê deparado com a missão de julgar os Predadores da Noite que conspiram contra Acheron.
Descobrimos mais sobre a raça de Simi e a sua estranha ligação com Acheron e ainda o porquê de este estar tão ligado aos Predadores da Noite e os proteger tanto.O romance neste volume é mais leve, embora a ligação emocional entre os dois personagens principais se vá tornando cada vez mais forte.
Este libro tiene todo, acción, romance, traición, cosas paranormales, misterio, intriga y además tiene un protagonista masculino que esta para comerse. Alexion ven a mí !!! Y Danger es una protagonista fuerte.Me encanta este mundo que crea Sherrilyn Kenyon
But once I started reading it I thought “Oooooh, that guy!” I must say that at first, I found it a little odd that this next Dark-Hunter book was about Acheron’s assassin/savior dude.
I loved how Alexion feels about Simi (love!) and even how loyal Alexion is to Ash. All in all, he’s a good solid character befitting of this series.Danger is a Dark-Huntress.
He’s not in this book a whole lot, but we learn a lot about him thanks to Alexion and the stories he tells Danger about Ash. Does it clarify things about him?
Hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm not sure where to start w/ this one.I didn't feel the connection w/ this book like I have w/ the others and that's a first.I was confused as to what Alexion REALLY was and it was never told to us.
What was Danger at the end?What I liked about this book was more story on Ash and Simi, that's always a plus but the rest of the book was just "ok" w/ me.This book felt so different then the rest of the books.
May contain plot spoilers:Book 8 was not as good as the last 2 Dark Hunter books I've read, but that might be because it centered around a female Dark Hunter.
Well, I read them for the men.
Danger, the female Dark Hunter, just didn't endear herself to me like some of the other female characters (e.g. Grace and Amanda) but the story receives 4 stars because of all of the information it gave on Acheron, who is my favorite character in the books.
The plot is basically that there is a confrontation brewing between the Minnesota Dark Hunters and Acheron, and he sends in his 'squire,' Alexion, to check things out.
2.5/5 Si no fuera porque me encanta la saga este libro me habría quitado las ganas de seguir, ninguno de los protagonistas me atrapó, Ni su historia de "amor" de 10 DIAS, haber que normalmente son periodos cortos pero diez días es demasiado corto. La historia de Alexion es interesante pero no me hizo sentir lo que en otras ocasiones. La trama del juez se me hace reciclada de la historia de Zarek. En fin, en una palabra este libro fue un gran: MEH!
Throw in the devious ass-faced antagonist, Stryker, spreading lies and causing chaos for our plot, and you've got lots of subsequent shit's-about-to-get-real drama.Both the storyline and the characters within this book be made of awesome-sauce.
So, with all that said awesome-sauce for plot and double-awesome-sauce for character, why the hell did I say this book left me with complicated feels?...Because I'm apparently a picky-ass.
The twists and turns Sins of the Night takes in regards to unexpected plot shenanigans, the utilization of face-cracking hilarious secondary characters, the drama and action, not to mention the two very likeable, very dynamic and interesting hero and heroine make this book all of the win.
