https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1025100.A_Boy_s_Own_Story
Elegant prose describing here a unique experience that hardly resembles my own. (The paramount reason I adore fiction!) In this, the truth of the matter. That there are all types, there are many stories. Sexuality is fixed only in our minds. This is no mix between "Salinger & Wilde." White is an American Alan Hollinghurst, or some bourgeois William Burroughs.
the protagonist's travails are emotionally affecting yet he remains creepily distanced from the events and people in his own life - in particular from his equally creepy, distant, self-absorbed father.
the episodic nature of the book - in some ways disguised by the circular narrative - is rich with at times dreamy, other times cruelly crystal clear recountings of key moments in this boy's life.
the whole thing flows together in a way that is impressively cohesive and memorable.
all that, plus i've never read a more sinister depiction of a blowjob in my life!
But unlike the Italian backdrop of that novel, the narrator in A Boy's Own Story is a wealthy WASPish fellow with a stern Republican father, a flighty mother, and the setting is the 1950s Midwest.
He's a poor little rich boy (who can get away with minor transgressions and risky behavior because he knows in the end he will be all right), but his internalized self-hate and homophobia is so intense that I could still feel sympathy.Despite the negatives, there were still some things I could relate to.
Like me, the narrator became unapologetic about his sexuality after a time.
Achingly beautiful...and that's before the "corn-holing" even begins.
White levels some serious stingers at you in this sucker, written with his customary flair for Proustian filigree.
While evidence that a truly fucked up childhood can engender great Art, the beneficiary (me/you/etc) thereof is behooved to ask—Q: Does that justify it?A: No. It can never be worth the manifold tortures adults foist upon their young—physical, psychological, or any variation of both.
Judging by this book, the average young boy can, before the age of 15, look forward to being approached for sex by:*A 12-year-old "straight" baby jock who's really into anal*Not one, but two separate camp counselors*A "special" student who wanders around with a constant erection, which everyone just accepts, like, "Oh hey, it's whatshisname with his perma-boner"*A teacher and his wife looking for a three-way*A totally different teacher*A female black prostitute*A guy in a park who's actually just trying to con you out of $200I think I'm forgetting someone, but hey, you can always fill your downtime with sexual fantasies about your own father!Look, I get that my experience does not in any way equal the universal experience, least of all that of a young gay man from half a century ago.
There's a kind of bittersweet loneliness/excitement at sexual awakening that most gays will intrinsically understand and that White always manages to caputure so perfectly. Somehow, he romances the unromantic, charming us with images of cruising in parks and getting STD's.
Essentially the homosexual’s The Catcher in the Rye, this modern classic is beautifully rendered; lush language and haunting passages abound. This one earns a spot amongst my all-time favorites.
This groundbreaking novel about a gay teenage boy coming of age in the 1950s is full of nostalgia and the yearning to be comfortable with oneself. The narrator recalls snippets of his formative years in which he struggles with his sexuality and the sense of shame that accompanies his then-forbidden desires. The writing is elegant and the story is an important one to tell, though I found certain sections to be far more affecting and compelling than others. This was an uneven read for me, though I'm glad I read it.
I picked "A Boy's Own Story" because it's also on the "1001 Books You Must Read Before You Die" list.
It is not a long book, but it felt long and was a chore to get through it.The book is the memoir of a boy coming to terms (or not) with being gay.
"A Boy's Own Story" is very over-written with elaborate prose and dense metaphors all the time.
But it was part of the boy's self-hatred for being gay.
(hide spoiler)] I understand how this act was thematically about self-loathing and not being able to accept his homosexuality, but it nevertheless made me dislike him intensely.
For all I know, it may be any girl's story as well..."There is just one shocking scene (that could turn you off) in the first few pages of the book: a sodomy between the 16-y/o narrator and a 12-y/o boy who is spending a few days vacation in their ranch.
However, this kind of sex scene becomes infrequent towards the end as the story focuses on the emotional aspect of being gay particularly in his struggle to be accepted and happy.
A Boy's Own Story is about a young boy's coming of age and his coming out in the 1950s.
At the beginning of the book there is a very explicit sex scene.
I've read a lot of books by John Irving who especially in his later work uses a lot of sex scenes as well but never anything like that.I always enjoy reading coming of age stories including the ones set at boarding schools and this book was no exception.
I often disliked the main character (particulary at the end) but the book was still great and I'm looking forward to reading the next volume in this trilogy.(I received a free digital copy via Netgalley/the publisher.
Of course, in 1982--the year ABOS was published--few gay-themed novels were readily available.
Edmund White was perhaps the trail-blazer that cemented the "Reagan-era" as arguably the finest in gay letters.There's a certain Western-like aura to ABOS.
White's semi-autobiographical tale set in the 1950s meanders like an antsy teenager--or an ornery cowboy on a quest.
We don't care where the nameless protagonist ends his journey.
And the journey, after all, is the crown of American lit.White's ending conjures up images of John Wayne blowing on his smoking gun after taking care of the bad guy.
I cringe when I hear this book praised as if it were the first and best thing White ever wrote...but it is very good.
After the fervid manner of Nocturnes for the King of Naples (still my favorite of his books) White took to heart Isherwood's advice to write more plainly.
We passed the point where the clipped lawns of an estate flowed down from a white mansion and its lit, curtained windows.
They sauntered up the hill away from me, he slightly in the lead, she swinging her arms high in an exaggerated way, as though she were a marionette.
It was men, not women, who struck me as foreign and desirable.""'At least he's a real man, and absolute evil is preferable, far preferable to your mauvais foi.'""Their desire to be bohemian outweighed their desire to be good.""I knew I was worthless and at the same time I was convinced somebody would find me worthy,""Of course I wanted to love a man and be heterosexual; the longer I could delay sorting out this antinomy the better."
I had some problems while reading the book, for example, A boy that is 15 that is goes from calling his father "daddy" in a child like manner to then describing events in his life like a memoir in an elaborate emotive language.
The protagonist has lots of character traits that I can relate to so that made it enjoyable for me.Chapter 4 was one of my favourite intros, the character analysis is so vivid, I could almost smell the cigarette being put out of the woman that worked in the bookshop.My major criticism would be that the author focuses on minor details and then races through the important ones, and it becomes extremely frustrating while reading!
An account of growing up queer when growing up queer wasn't as mainstream as it is today. I think will appeal almost universally to a gay audience, but also to anyone who has felt different or like an outsider. It also deals with some interesting father-son issues.
Or, 'Mr. Pouchet had very full lips the color of raspberry ice when it's still in the carton, before it's licked lighter...' The book is six chapters, but really they are anecdotes that flit around different times during the narrator's adolescence, detailing his different encounters with men and boys, and his longing for love.
Also, I have to admit that I am a little tired of reading about lonely adolescent boys, who by their very nature are incredibly self-centred.
I expected a story based on a real life experience…what it turned out to be was a collection of anecdotes from a life, tied together loosely through a vaguely chronological perspective and a bunch of generously worded descriptions of people, emotions and locations.
The descriptions, which are plentiful, are sometimes overly lengthy and tiresome to read, but the next minute they are fascinating and lively, showing the author’s very unique literary qualities.
I wasn’t grabbed by this at all.I don’t think I will be reading the two sequels to this book.
Thus it’s small wonder it was such a chore for me to plod through this book back as a young twentysomething - my little punkass simply wasn’t ready for such writerly erudition and I henceforth banned Mr. White to the shameful rank of Privileged Irrelevant Old Gay White Male Writer (PIOGWMW), basically the literary equivalent of a Sweater Queen to my judgmental young mind.
This classic novel can now have its place on the hallowed Rob’s Required Reading For All Gay Men.
Anyway, read this book, it's good stuff (but my acronyms seriously need some work, they'll never catch on at this rate).
Edmund White può vantare una scrittura meravigliosa, un lessico ricchissimo, uno stile che si compone in larga parte di metafore e analogie spietate.Immensa è poi l'introspezione psicologica; la psicanalisi torna in diverse forme nel romanzo, ponendosi, imponente, come lente d'ingrandimento e chiave di lettura dell'intero romanzo, così da rivelare, alla fine, un intreccio invisibile che unisce quelli che sembravano episodi sconnessi, in ordine casuale.Un monologo, un racconto, una confessione, soprattutto; Un giovane americano è un autoritratto che si fa a pezzi da solo, squarcia la tela e vi mostra tutto quello che c'è dietro.
To be fairly honest I struggled a bit with it, and I'm not entirely sure that I can pinpoint the why of that.This is a coming of age story that takes place in the 50's.
As unnerving as it was reading about things like racism, homophobia, self-hatred, and distant parents, I think the portrayal was very accurate given place and time.
I don't think the MC was always likable, (and I honestly don't think he was meant to be - this really isn't a flattering self portrait, but feels very real, which is another very appreciated thing), but in some way it was almost impossible not to feel certain empathy towards the boy.The prose in this book is absolutely beautiful, and insightful which made it - most of the times - engaging.
When I first started reading this, I couldn't figure out why I had never heard about it before: the writing is really quite good.
But then I realized that for all of his belletrism, White doesn't really write about anything very compelling or interesting.
Sure there's some smut and the carefree (if shopworn) experience of the rich white boy away at boarding school, wearing his immunities to consequence like his house's heraldic colors.
But nothing much goes on.I read this because it's the first in a series the second of which I will have to read to lead a bookclub discussion in January.
You know it was definitely good. The writing and language was truly beautiful and I honestly enjoyed the short novel. Why only three stars? Well... perhaps the writing was ~too~ beautiful. I often found myself having to go back a re-read paragraphs because I realized I wasn't really paying attention to what I was reading. I'm glad I picked it up and I fully intend on continuing with the three book series but maybe I may need to wait until the semester is over to limit my distractions.
read this in the womb. will re-read and then BLOW YOU ALL AWAY WITH MY PARTS OF SPEECH INCLUDING ADVERBS AND EVERYTHING
Incredible talent with words and brilliant fluency of description but such an erratic and meandering mess of half-told stories that I had to sometimes force myself to read to get through it. It’s on so many lists, I wanted to like it more.
I’ve been eager to acquire this book for some time now and although I didn’t enjoy it nearly half as much as I thought I would, I’m still pleased I finally managed to read it.
(Note: I should note that although I wasn't as impressed with the novel, I do praise its honesty, a factor in which I think it shines the most.) His lust for the aesthetics and compassion for literature, as well as his natural, inquisitorial nature are a beautiful addition to the story and makes the character a joy (if somewhat of a pity) to read.
White's style inclines to the good, but he can be a bit too 'knowing' at times--his cultural reference points seem to be his own, rather than his protagonist's, at times.
I realize this is at least in part a loosely autobiographical novel, but there were moments where I'd find myself thinking "Does this 13 year old boy really know anything about Proust?" and those moments did take me out of the story a bit.
I don't know much about White, but I suppose my baseline assessment would be that it felt like a solid debut novel from a young novelist.
If he wasn't writing about gay men, he would be as famous as any major modern author.
From what I've read of the modern canon, he and Toni Morrison are the best writers.
I didn't mind the nonlinear, even random, sequencing of the book.
His metaphors and imagery are so stunning and so specific.
The book isn't the most emotional, by design I imagine, but you can identify with his passing summations of what the character is feeling at any given moment.
White really spells out what it's like, more than Holleran or Kramer perhaps.
I loved the book.
The anguish this young man feels about his sexuality, both the coming of age and the realization that he is actually a homosexual, is so beautifully written. The author's verbal cleverness makes erotic poetry out of the most mundane features of growing up. Of course, this made me think of all the young men who don't fit in, and feel bullied and desperate as they sense the growing gulf between themselves and their age-mates.
This book is often named as a classic gay coming-of-age story. It is well-written and readable, but beyond that I found it utterly depressing. The main character seems to always be looking for love, or at least some emotional connection, but only finds sex (sometimes exploitative) and ultimately, ways to manipulate others with sex. I wanted to care about him, but by the end it was a very unlikeable fellow that I closed the book on.
