https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103197.Coup_de_Gr_ce

Really, what can I say about this plot of layered despair except that I could hardly concentrate on Erick's stoic narration, I barely was able to uncover Conrad's motives (perhaps because he chose to live through his books, ignorant of many things occurring around him), and I only wanted to see Sophie illuminated?
The prose is elegant and occurs in mouthfuls of expertly arranged words that at times are lyrical, and there in the background, there is Sophie, occurring through Erick's recollections: a woman in love with a man undeserving, a woman symbolic of the civil war occurring, a woman who must sacrifice everything she knows to fight for everything she believes.
This was a passionate and intense historical novella from one of my favorite authors. I can say I enjoyed it, but I can also say that if Erick had not been so repressed and just boned Conrad then everyone else involved would have been better off.
É uma descida a um abismo …” Agustina Bessa LuísTambém eu desci aos abismos das personagens, também eu caminhei com eles no fio da navalha vacilando entre conflitos privados; entre a vontade de encantar e o anseio de pedir perdão por existir, entre um amor submisso e humilhante e a altivez que resta a um ser ferido e abandonado.
Eric ...acho que não cheguei perto de o entender...Terminei mortificada sem ter atingido a profunda complexidade das personagens.
Ou seja, ou lemos e vamos informados para a história – inclusive do fim da mesma, ou, arriscamo-nos a extrair significados errados e/ou incompletos.A narrativa é, como sempre, primorosa, e Marguerite Yourcenar deixou-me novamente comovida e deslumbrada com tanta beleza e delicadeza.E de coração desfeito também.
Marguerite Yourcenar (1903-1987)Elle était trop jeune pour se douter que l'existence n'est pas faite d'élans subits et constance obstinée, mais de compromissions et oublis.()Based upon actual incidents, Marguerite Yourcenar's short novel Le Coup de grâce (1939) is, despite all the trappings of the setting in western Latvia during the 1919 war between the Bolshevists and their many enemies, a close and claustrophobic examination of a ménage à trois consisting of Eric, the narrator, and the siblings, Conrad and Sophie, that could not but remind me of Jean Cocteau's Les Enfants terribles, published a decade earlier.
Cupio dissolviHo comprato questo libro perchè ambientato in un paese dove sono stata e nel quale è stata effettuata una pulizia etnica che ha spazzato via la popolazione baltica; i loro nomi sono rimasti solo nei piccoli cimiteri nei boschi, con strane lapidi a forma di animali. Il libro è duro come il titolo lascia presagire. Breve esagerato intenso e vero. E' una storia accaduta in Curlandia negli anni '20 quando i tedeschi cercavano di ostacolare la presa di potere dei bolscevichi. Guerra civile, gioventù bruciata. La scrittura sobria della Yourcenar rende questa storia indimenticabile.
Dieser kurze Roman wird im Klappentext als ein Dreiecksspiel zwischen zwei Männern und einer Frau in den Kriegswirren um die Jahre 1917/18 im Baltikum beschrieben.
vielleicht um ihn mit jener Klarheit und Schärfe des Geistes ausrüsten zu können, die nicht unbedingt deutsche Charakteristika sind, widerlegt jede Deutung, die entweder diese Gestalt zum Idealbild erhebt oder, im Gegenteil, zum Zerrbild eines bestimmten Adels- oder deutschen Offizierstyps erniedrigt.“ Dabei muss man wissen, dass das Buch 1938 von der Belgierin geschrieben wurde, also zu einer Zeit, in der der Deutsche an sich, nicht gerade wohl gelitten war bei seinen Nachbarn.

I cannot help but compare Erick to Jim, Conrad to Jules, and Sophie to Kate.
I cannot help that if the story of JULES AND JIM were to be told amidst the war, and that that one chapter were to be expanded, it would look something like COUP DE GRACE (albeit less cruel, less cynical).There is a precision on the author’s prose that I admired.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThe Book Report: Told in the first person past perfect, this tale of three young people caught in a highly hormonal passage of their lives at the same moment as the Russian Revolution overthrows the privileged existences they'd led until that time purports to be the memory of Erick von Lhomond as he sits in a train station cafe, on his way to who knows where after his career as a soldier of fortune has led to a wounding in the Spanish Civil War then newly ended.
Erick recalls his love for sibling aristos Conrad and Sophie, children of the Count of Reval, and his cousins.

One is always trapped, somehow, in dealings with women.A curious remark, given that it's stated by an executioner, a man involved in an oblique love triangle (the speaker's in love with the brother of a woman who hopelessly loves him), who is in fact a character invented by the severe French lesbian Marguerite Yourcenar.
This short novel is a long monologue, the painful confession of a blighted life – and this reader ached for the coup de grace long before it came.Edmund White describes Yourcenar's Coup de Grace as "perhaps her strongest piece of fiction." It's many years since I read Memoirs of Hadrian, but I remember that book as being more impressive.
Only people like Patrick Leigh Fermor, Umberto Eco, and Jonathan Littell write with such a total command of european history and geography.This is a VERY 19th century short novel about one small corner of the Russian Civil War. Yourcenar's narration of the life of a young White Russian solider, his friendships and ultimately tragic love interests, feels like something that could just as easily have been written in 1839 as 1939, when it was published.
It's very heavily narrated in the way that novels from the previous century are, but somehow that anachronism makes it all the more poignant.
Al punto in cui sono, poco importa quale dei due dia o riceva la morte… Un racconto drammatico, forse di più perché sappiamo trattarsi di una storia vera.
Una vicenda che si snoda durante la guerra civile in Curlandia, all’inizio degli anni ’20, quando la Germania tenta in ogni modo di bloccare la presa di potere da parte dei bolscevichi.
Da un lato una amicizia, che ha più il sapore di una omosessualità repressa, e dall’altra un amore offerto e duramente negato.
Situazioni che alla fine generano incomprensioni, odio e tradimento, un desiderio di vendetta che culmina in un finale tragico e definitivo, crudele come del resto è la guerra.
"A amizade é, acima de tudo, certeza - é isso o que a distingue do amor. É também respeito, e aceitação total de um outro ser."Prefácios e Introduções só leio após terminar o livro porque, geralmente, revelam demasiado do enredo e retiram-me o prazer da surpresa. Neste livro, a excelente introdução de Agustina Bessa-Luis é uma análise detalhada do romance que inclui o resumo do enredo. Vale a pena ler, mas no final. Relativamente ao romance, a magnífica prosa de Marguerite Yourcenar não foi suficiente para me emocionar com os trágicos destinos dos três jovens protagonistas.
I chose Belgian author Marguerite Yourcenar's Coup de Grace for the Latvia component of my Around the World in 80 Books challenge.
Yourcenar reminded me somewhat of Andre Gide at times, an author whom I discovered last year and very much enjoy.
The setting, for the most part, is a secondary concern; Yourcenar essentially provides a detailed character study which could be transplanted to many other cities, and many other time periods, without much having to be changed.
Whilst I did enjoy immersing myself within Coup de Grace, I'm not sure that I'll actively seek out Yourcenar's other work just yet; I imagine that it may be something of a slog.
Un uomo che confessa la propria storia con una freddezza e una lucidità quasi crudeli. Una storia di amore e disperazione e di morte senza speranza.Come tutti i libri della Yourcenar da leggere con attenzione. Molto commovente e triste, la storia si svolge in un paesaggio freddo e grigio,mentre una guerra incombe. Le vite dei tre protagonisti si intrecciano,senza raggiungere un equilibrio ,fino a che la scena finale della storia darà una soluzione definitiva e drammatica alle questioni mai risolte. So di esser stata molto vaga, ma mi piacerbbe che qualcuno si incuriosisse e lo leggesse questo bel romanzo.
In Lithuania during the Russian Civil War (after WWI), three young Prussian aristocrats fight their passions, their ennui, the Bolsheviks, and Yourcenar's staggering usage of colons and semicolons. Needless to say, the punctuation defeats everyone. This is a very violent novella. Life has little value. In addition to a rape (off scene) there's a slap, a bullet to the stomach, and an execution. Oh, and a little dog is killed by a grenade. This is my first Yourcenar so I don't know yet if her punctuation threatens all her work.
La Yourcenar è sicuramente uno dei miei scrittori preferiti, le sue Memorie di Adriano, o l'Opera al nero, sono semplicemente straordinari. C'è da dire però che nemmeno i grandi scrittori nascono grandi. La loro grandezza si può intuire, ma nelle opere giovanili spesso è più evidente la forma perfetta, così perfetta da essere persin aliena, che una vera ispirazione narrativa.
But the final scene is shocking in its perfection.
It is the account of the tragic relationship of three people, told by one of them in retrospect.Erich von Lhomond, the narrator, is a German officer of the Legion Condor who was wounded in the Spanish Civil War and is recovering in Italy which gives him an opportunity to look back at events that happened briefly after WWI, and that had a lasting impact on his life.Erich and his close childhood friend Conrad took part in the fighting in the Baltics in 1919 between the Red and the Czarist Army; the so-called White Russians were supported in this civil war by German Freikorps (in which Erich and Conrad serve as officers), paramilitary groups with strong nationalist, anti-communist, and frequently anti-Semitic convictions (many later Nazi leaders served in Freikorps units); the situation was rather complex since there were already independent states in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania who were caught somehow in between.
"Invece di parlare d'amore noi parlavamo dell'amore, ingannando con l'aiuto delle parole un'irrequietudine che un altro avrebbe risolto con dei gesti, e alla quale le circostanze ci vietavano di sottrarci con la fuga."Il racconto di un legame intimo e sconcertante in cui l'intreccio tra l'amore e l'odio insieme salva e condanna a scegliere tra morte e vita.
devo anche ammettere di aver trovato qualche spunto di riflessione.tralasciando la scrittura prolissa e pesante che può piacere o non piacere, che devo dire non mi ha disturbata più di tanto, nonostante spesso perdesse anche di poeticità.la cosa che proprio non mi è piaciuta: le ultime sette righe del romanzo.
tutto era così struggente e poetico fino a quel momento, l'amore non ricambiato, la guerra, la disperazione, tutto così ben rappresentato attraverso la semplice descrizione del sentimento più che delle scene vere e proprie e poi...
le fatidiche sette righe, quelle che proprio non riesco a mandare giù.
non so se sarà così o meno, ma per ora, Marguerite, è un addio più che un arrivederci  au revoir
Eric reflete, mais tarde, sobre o que aconteceu: "Agora que ela está morta, e que deixei de acreditar em milagres, estou contente por ter beijado ao menos uma vez aquela boca e aqueles cabelos ásperos.
No entanto, "Não sei em que momento a delícia se transformou em horror (...) Arranquei-me a Sophie com uma selvajaria que deverá ter parecido cruel aquele corpo que a felicidade tornava indefeso.
Ela reabriu as pálpebras e viu estampada no meu rosto qualquer coisa sem dúvida mais insuportável que o ódio ou que o terror, pois recuou, tapou o rosto com o cotovelo erguido, como uma criança esbofeteada, e foi essa a última vez que os meus olhos a viram chorar".
Eine Dreiecksbeziehung voll unerwiderter Liebe und unterdrücktem Verlangen auf einem baltischen Schloss inmitten des russischen Bürgerkriegs. Knapp und präzise erzählt, streben die Ereignisse ihrem unausweichlichen Höhepunkt zu. Eine moderne Tragödie.
Pouco sabia sobre Marguerite Yourcenar e este livro vai obrigar-me a pesquisar ainda mais sobre esta interessante escritora belga/francesa.
Quanto a esta obra em particular, não posso dizer que a adorei...
Não adorei, embora tenha havido algo nela que tenha despertado o meu interesse.
Aliás, toda a história nos é contada através da memória do protagonista.
Talvez por causa do tema, que é bastante difícil, ou talvez não tenha escolhido a altura certa para o ler.
às vezes falta-nos experiência ou conhecimento.
Voltarei a ler Yourcenar quando achar que o devo fazer e de certeza que vou pesquisar mais sobre este livro.
Con questo romanzo ambiguo, intenso, pieno di affascinanti chiaroscuri e folgorante, scritto con uno stile compiuto, sapiente e elegante, Marguerite Yourcenar mi conquista definitivamente.Il colpo di graziaMarguerite YourcenarTraduzione: Maria Luisa SpazianiEditore: FeltrinelliPag: 137Voto: 5/5
It has been quite a while since I read Marguerite Yourcenar’s most acclaimed work, 'Memoirs of Hadrian.' I remember it as a somber but richly multifaceted, expansive novel with a reflective first-person narrator who lives in active dialogue with the world around him – both as a leader and as a thinker.Everything about 'Coup De Grace' signals another reading experience.
I find myself splitting my interpretation between locating a naivete in the narrator and that French mode of generalization in the author.On the whole, the majority of the reading experience is one of intrigue, as Yourcenar offers scenes that string together in a plot, none of which offers real psychological footholds in the story.
Though the story begins in Italy as Erick is waiting to return to Germany after having been wounded at Zaragoza (presumably in the Spanish Civil War), the entire focus of his story remains on his experience in the Baltic regions of Livonia and Kurland as the Bolshevik army approaches Kratovitsy, the estate of his cousin and boyhood friend, Conrad de Reval.
Sophie, on the other hand, is nothing more than a distraction.In the wake of the Russian Revolution, Erick returns to Kratovitsy as a Prussian-trained officer fighting in the White Russian army and determined to stop the advance of Bolshevik forces in the Baltic states.
Coloca esta historia en una contexto extremo, una guerra ¿por qué no?, y dáselo a la mente brillante de Marguerite Yourcenar y ¡zas!, tienes un novela corta simplemente maravillosa.
Es una historia de amor que trasciende los tiempos y el contexto histórico en la cual se ubica, porque se trata del realismo del romance, muchas veces sobreestimado, y que en esta historia Eric deshilacha de manera perfecta, confesando su egoísmo extremo, sus celos por ser querido y su rechazo a querer a nadie más que a sí mismo.
