https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7909.Betsy_Tacy
The Betsy-Tacy series may be the most influential set of books I ever read.
Betsy-Tacy is the first book in the delightful series by Maud Hart Lovelace.
The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
Even though they are children, Betsy and Tacy's lives are, as in real life, not always happy.
If you read this book and love it, please read the series.
It will be books that you will never forget as long as you live.
I have to thank my sister, Julie for introducting these books to me and changing my life.
My all-time favorite series as a child.
I read every book in the Betsy Tacy (and Tib!) series multiple times and fervently wished I lived on Hill St. with them at the turn of the 20th century.
Maybe I can force my daughter to get interested in this series when she is old enough??
Then, I'll have an excuse to read them all over again.Sacrilege that it is for me to say this, as a child of the 1970s, I preferred this series to the Little House books (even though I read all of them multiple times as well).
It certainly describes a more innocent time (no worries about child kidnapping here!) and it shows a mostly idyllic childhood for these two girls, although the story does not shy away from life’s difficult parts either.
Adored Betsy's storytelling!Note for modern kids: Reading it for the first time in my fifties and in 2007, I did notice the sexist language, but it would be obvious to young readers that this story took place a long time ago, and I’m sure that many of my favorite books from my childhood have the same issue.
12/2009 I have loved this book so long I can't remember when first I read it.
I've re-read it countless times, and every time I've read it as an adult, I marvel at Lovelace's skill.
Told from the perspective of a five-year-old girl, it rings true on every possible level.
Read from the perspective of a forty-five-year-old woman, it's poignant and heartbreaking and nostalgic and delightful.
This is my first re-read since I made the journey back to Mankato (the real-life Deep Valley) and it's pretty wonderful to read about the houses in which I have stood, tears in my eyes.
Most of the books I skipped were boys' sports, or monster books, but also I tended to skip anything illustrated by Lois Lenski.
While I didn't mind reading about kids younger than me, that was too young: they couldn't possibly have the adventures I craved.I wish someone had given me those books at six or so, because I would have loved them.
I loved stories about normal kids, when I was young--they were so alien, so comforting, though I'd soon crave adventure again.
A delightful book that celebrates the innocence and imagination of childhood.
This book is written for a very young audience and makes a perfect read-aloud.
This book is the first in a series of ten books about Betsy (plus two books about other characters in which she is mentioned).
The reading level and plots DO increase as the books progress and the characters mature.
So don’t give up on the series if you are an older reader and find this one boring.
(Though I still think it is charming!) This is a series that no childhood should be without.
Back in 2000, I was eager to start a series so many of my book-friends loved, but I was impatient to find myself reading a book about 5 year-olds, and was a little underwhelmed.
Rereading it now (after reading some of the later books in the series multiple times), I appreciate how beautifully layered the series is, with each successive book showing a broadening perspective as the girls grow up.
And so, being ready now to appreciate this one on its own terms (and perhaps being older and wiser?) I found it just lovely.
I've been an avid reader for as long as I can remember, and have many favorites from childhood, but none have ever meant as much to me as the happy and cozy Betsy-Tacy books.My beloved aunt dug a dusty old copy of Betsy-Tacy out of her attic for me when I was 4 or 5 years old.
Written in the 1940s, it is an autobiographical account of Maud Hart Lovelace's turn-of-the-century childhood in Mankato, MN--which becomes Deep Valley in the book.
Ms Lovelace went on to write nine more books in this series, following Betsy's life through her first year of marriage.
Ah! The world of little children. We forget what life was like when we were 4, 5, 6 years old, the wide-eyed wonder of the world, the power of our imagination, the love of our family, and the pure joy of the the friends we laughed and played with. If you have children and grandchildren then you experience it again through their lives. And you can experience through the words of a wonderful book like Betsy-Tacy. It's a timeless story that's just as beautiful to read today as it was when it was written.
We loved this story. Two young friends meet just as they are about to start school. Apart from the absence of cars and the fact that however rural your home might be 5 yr olds don't go off alone together these days, much of this book could have been in present time. Imaginative play, family life, happiness, sadness and the beauty of the passing seasons.
Perhaps I would have liked this more when I was younger . . . perhaps. While this was a perfectly fine little book, it struck me as a little blah and stilted; not nearly as brilliant and honest as Elizabeth Enright or Jeanne Birdsall.
Ahh! the innocence of youth! This is a really cute book about two little girls who become best friends. It takes place at the turn of the century which makes it especially charming. It's written in a very simple way which makes it perfect for younger children to enjoy. I read it to my two little girls ages 6 and 4 and they loved it so much that we have decided to read the next one, too, "Betsy-Tacy and Tib".
I remember reading this with my mom as a child. The stories are so cute and I remember wanting to be just like the girls. I still sometimes thumb through the book and find new stories that I have forgotten. It is also interesting to reread since the innocent point of view of a child is captured perfectly.
Turns out I'm more old and jaded than any teenager has the right to be, because I found this to be a 100 page slog about quirky childhood antics. However, I'm going to keep reading, because I first encountered these as 'Anne of Green Gables but she follows her career dreams' and book 10 sounds like one worth sticking around for. Also: Joe, whomever he may be.
In this day and age of social media and online games, it was refreshingly quaint to read about a time when ladies went calling, milk was delivered in horse-drawn wagons, and children's play was limited only by the scope of their own imaginations.
When the Kelly family moves in, Betsy sees a moving "dray", not a moving truck, and their houses have "parlors", not living rooms or family rooms.The edition I read included some fun facts about the author and where she got her inspiration for writing the book, plus a delightful little map of the girls' neighborhood.I think this will be a fun series to follow, and I'm looking forward to the next book.
I can't remember when I first starting reading this series but 2 years ago I bought them all again to read and own because as a child I had always checked them out from the library. I re-read them all and although the first stories are meant for child level readers I enjoyed a trip down memory lane with Betsy, Tacy, and Tib (a character who comes later on in the series). The reading level grows with the characters which is good for young readers. Utterly delightful stories of adventures and friendship.
Every single detail is dear to me!
I saw this at the library and was in a weird mood, so I brought it home. Adorable story about 5-6 year olds doing 5-6 year old things at the turn of the century. I know I read the first few books twenty-some years ago, but I think I'm about to (re)discover the entire series.
Deep Valley (Mankato) is safe enough to let them wander at will and talk to "strangers" (ie people their parents don't know from church or work.) I was impressed with the way the author revives how it feels to be three, or four, or five--young enough to be unaware of the world beyond your neighbourhood.
Some people in my medium-sized city now (900,000 inhabitants) are unaware of this.I realised when I got to the end of the book that this series is mentioned in passing in the film "You've Got Mail" when the Meg Ryan character is showing a little girl the books and talking about the characters in them.
The storyline goes something like, “Once upon a time, there were two little girls who became best friends, even though one was lively and imaginative and one was terribly shy.” Lovelace is not interested in drawing riveting characters.
But, like the Little House series, these are books about the way of life in a time.
The early 1900s homes line a single crossroad that makes up the town.
Without saying much, Lovelace evokes the tenderness of that, the wobbling glasses of milk in little girl hands and the street with its barefooted children.
I just re-read the entire series in honor of my Mom. I love the way they grow in complexity with the kids.
The first four books are intended for early readers or read-alongs, ages 5-6, 8-9, 10 and 12.
(I won't subject you to a review of each of the 10 books.) These characters are among the most vivid and wonderful that I've ever read.
The fact that the stories took place 100 years ago does not take away at all from my sense of identification with the kids.
Their adventures and coming of age stories are so universal that they are as beloved today as when first published.
One of the first chapter books I remember reading by myself. Betsy and Tacy are the ideal friends most little girls want. The chapters are told in vignettes and feature simple adventures the girls have such as going to school for the first time, selling sand, and having picnics. My favorite, of course, is when Tacy first moves in across the street from Betsy. It's simple and short (nothing like the later high school years books) and fun. It reminds you of the simpler times when you were a kid.
This works as a delightful stand-alone novel about friendship and family, but when I look at the entire series, I marvel at how MHL creates such a strong foundation for all the books to come. It always comes back to a present of a friend.Simple language, but this is the most poetic one in the series. Re-read for VSC. Last read: 1-28-07 (not counting audiobook listens)
This was absolutely delightful. I wish I had known of this series when I was a child. Glad I learned about it now through friends to read to my daughter. This was such a sweet story. I loved all the imaginative play the girls shared through out. The illustrations was lovely too. I look forward to reading the whole series.
A delightful children's classic. A kinder, gentler version of the Anne of Green Gables books, this series is chock full of good-natured humor, family values and sweet stories. It would be a great read-aloud for little girls.
A beautiful, perfect book. I'm rereading it to the girls right now (the first time for the 5yo) and their giggles are delicious. I never read these books as a kid, and I'm so glad to be sharing them with my daughters.
Sweet!
I read a lot of older children's fiction when I was little, but somehow I never read Betsy-Tacy or any others by Maud Hart Lovelace.
I finally decided to read Betsy-Tacy after downloading it for my Kindle and I was pleasantly surprised!
Maud Hart Lovelace wrote historical novels for adults before she ever wrote children's books, and it shows.
But with Betsy-Tacy all I can say is that I wish I had read it as a child, because I'm sure I would have really loved it.
When home furnishings were not arranged to accomodate TVs and home entertainment centers.Well, having taken my walk down memory lane, I can talk about the book a bit.
Therefore, even within the pages of this short book, the characters must deal with death (Tacy's sister, the Baby Bee), and the disruptions caused by birth (Betsy's sister Margaret).Last, the book is essentially adult from the point of view of its asides --- for example, the description of the gentle manipulation of children by adults when Tacy's brother distracts Betsy and Tacey from disappointment; or how Betsy is farmed out during the time of Margaret's birth.I think I will read more of this series.

