https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1237030.Callander_Square
Two books into this series now and I am very happy I have so many ahead of me to read!
I really enjoyed this second outing with Charlotte and her policeman husband Thomas.I always enjoy historical fiction set in yesteryear London and I love a good mystery so Callander Square was bound to be a good read for me.
I was reading on a Kindle and was only on 84% when suddenly the murderer was outed and it finished.
Still a very good book and I am looking forward to the next one.
It will require the investigative skills, curiosity, persistence, and intelligence of the sisters, the police (in the form of Thomas Pitt, of course) and Society itself to resolve the murders in the high-end housing area called Callander Square.As gardeners dig around trying to find a place to plant a new shrub, they unearth something they didn’t expect – the bodies of two babies, buried one below the other.
There are no clues, but Inspector Thomas Pitt does what he does: with his calm manner and ability to engage with others, the questioning of house servants begins.When Charlotte and Emily become involved, it is initially out of curiosity.
This was my second entry into The Charlotte and Thomas Pitt series by Anne Perry and I have to admit that I think that the first one was better.Callander Square starts with the discovery of two newborn baby skeletons discovered by men digging to plant a tree.
In their own ways, they infiltrate the society of Callander Square.As Inspector Pitt starts his investigation, he has no problem facing down the people who would like to say that the babies must be the result of some servant girl getting into trouble.
I ‘met’ the tall Charlotte Ellison who lacked a filter on her mouth, her beautiful but conniving sister Emily, the secretive Lord William Ashworth and Inspector Thomas Pitt when I read The Cater Street Hangman.
The mystery was good and I enjoyed Thomas’s character.
The young couple were now into their second year of marriage, Charlotte was in the early stages of her first pregnancy and Thomas still couldn’t believe she gave up everything to marry a poorly-paid police officer.
Emily is now Lady Ashworth and conveniently involves herself in solving the mystery.
And Thomas was still Thomas, doing his very best to solve the mystery.
Charlotte has married Thomas, and finds a way to get around Victorian gender rules about the reaspectable wife remaining in the home to get out and help him solve a series of murders that begin with the discovery of some buried infant skeletons in the shared garden of a fashionable cul-de-sac where some well-to-do Londoners reside, Callander Square.
I liked Charlotte's sister Emily even more in this volume, for she uses her skills in flattery and social manipulation as well as her social standing (she is married to a viscount) to help the Pitts move the investigation along.

The coup of Emily's marrying her lordship and the social stigma of a murder in the family coupled with Charlotte's embarrassingly forthright speech has resigned the Ellisons to Charlotte lowering herself to Pitt's level.Lady Emily Ashworth has been getting a bit bored with her routine life and when Charlotte requests her help on the case, she's more than happy to lend a hand.
Turns out George, Lord Ashworth, is not as oblivious to Emily's activities as she had thought.General Brandon Balantyne, his wife Augusta, and their children, Brandy and Christina, live on the square.
The way the characters were introduced made it difficult for me to tell them apart, and I feel that even near the end of the book, there were a few I had to stop and consciously match up.
(This element extends a long way into the book, so it's arguable that the mystery isn't that important to the story until much later.)Also, the book quickly branched into secondary points of view, including suspects ...
Not quite fair play, says I.But it's quite fitting that the book doesn't end there, and the final conclusion says much about the courage and bravery of Victorian women.
Yeah, I got an Audible subscription just so I could listen to this, and yes, I listened to it all day today while I went about my life, and yes, I just got the third book. Even though I’ve read them before. Because they’re good stories and great audio books. Sue me.
Also given quite a lot of screentime, as it were, is one of Callander Square's residents, the reprobate banker, Reggie, whose hobby is bedding his parlourmaids; he's unfortunately such a stereotype of the knuckleheaded aristocrat that it's hard to take him seriously as an actual character, and I for one very rapidly tired of his company.
There were moments when I felt it suddenly engaged with its environment, as when the two sisters investigate a bedraggled, long-neglected garden, but for the most part I gained no sense at all of where we all were.I picked Callander Square up at the same time as I did a much later entry in the series, Treason at Lisson Grove, and after finishing this one was disinclined to bother with the other.
I didn’t want to associate Anne with a sad event.
This is no mean feat because a plethora of families must be introduced and Anne’s audience needs updating.
Where we left off, Charlotte & Thomas wanted to marry.
So we have a little bit of acclimatizing to do at their home, where Charlotte doesn’t mind attending to basic housekeeping and employs one maid to assist her.
Emily’s vain disposition is much improved, as Charlotte’s assistant sleuth.Not light, Anne presents bold subjects unflinchingly: the discovery of two infants under the grass thoroughfare of a classy neighbourhood.
The sub-stories are complex; blended seamlessly between all families by a sharp plotter.
“Callander Square” is book two in Anne Perry’s Thomas and Charlotte Pitt series.
The book covers Victorian London’s neighborhood’s rich secrets.
The book is more about Victorian society, how they lived both the servants and the masters, than about solving the mystery.Perry covers a great deal about women in Victorian England.
Perry also covers what was important to women but not to the men.
It is as if there were two separate worlds, the women in the house and outside of the house.Perry is an excellent writer and she magically transports the reader to see what it was like living in Victorian London.
I really don't care for this particular book, which is a pity because I like the first one a lot.
Unfortunately there's very little Charlotte and Pitt here, the mystery is hardly pressing, the characters are hard to keep straight, (Campbell or Carlton?) and the solution is nasty.
The whole thing could be called "Titled People Behaving Badly".
It's full of gossip, affairs with married people or servants and people lying to people...
absolutely not my kind of book.
I'd forgotten how much I dislike this.
Also, the first book about the Pitt's son Daniel was good.
3.5 STARSI enjoyed the second installment more than the first. I was saddened to see two years passed between the books, and significant life events were completely glossed over. Happily, there is more focus on murder mystery and less on society. I adore Emily and Charolette's relationship. Still longing for more Thomas Pitt, as he seems the most fascinating character. I'm interested to see how the series progresses.
The overarching theme of the first two Charlotte and Thomas Pitt mysteries, The Cater Street Hangman and Callander Square, is about the sordid details a murder investigation brings out.
Perry doesn't quite pull it off in the Cater Street Hangman.
But in this, her second book, she does a brilliant job of combining this theme with the mystery storyline.
We follow Charlotte, her sister, Emily, and to some extent, Pitt, as they go about the business of uncovering gossip that might shed light on these tragic deaths.
The secondary storyline of blackmail echoes and connects up with the main mystery plot.
I like that we're still spending time with Emily, who almost got more screentime than Charlotte in this installment.With a neighborhood like this, it became a bit confusing keeping all the characters straight.
I constantly got Campbell and the other C'family (Carlton?) confused, which was terrible since one was nasty and the other was not.And the ending was rushed, which I've grown to expect.
I'll continue reading her books, though, since I think the time period is fascinating and of course, who can resist learning about how Charlotte will be as a mother?(view spoiler)[It turns out that Freddie Bolover was blackmailing some folks, including Reggie Southeron and his affair with the parlormaid.
Book #2 of the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt Victorian mystery series.
The bodies of two infants are found buried in a park near a wealthy neighborhood, and Inspector Pitt begins interviewing the servants of nearby households, hoping to spot a maid who has secretly given birth and disposed of her baby.
Charlotte’s sister, bored with her high society life, decides to help by exchanging gossip with the local ladies, in case the infants were born to a higher-class woman.The Victorian social ill in the spotlight concerns the fate of women who become pregnant out of wedlock: housemaids dismissed without a reference for submitting to the desires of their employers; well-born girls pressed into hasty, deceptive marriages.
I feel really cheated when I'm reading a book and the author has created a compelling mystery with an intricate web of characters (and in this case a ridiculously large number of them to keep straight), only to solve the mystery on the last page and - DONE.
How do they feel about the truth coming out?
What happens to the rest of them?
What happens to the murderer who was just caught?
We'll never know, because just like the first of this series, the second book has one purpose - to solve the mystery, not to tell a complete story.
I liked this more than the first book; although there was a nasty ARRGH WHAT moment at the beginning to do with Charlotte and Thomas' marriage (she's super happy that he intends to be the master of the house and secretly glad to obey), I really liked their relationship and interactions.
I LOVED getting more of Emily, who was my favourite character in the first book.
Could definitely read more of the crime-solving team of Emily, clever and ambitious socialite aristocrat, and Charlotte, principled and blunt policeman's wife.This book also delivered really well on the characterisation and character interaction fronts.
Twisty Victorian AffairsBook 2 (of 32 so far) in the Thomas and Charlotte Pitt mystery series.
The book opens with the discovery of the bodies of two infants buried in a garden in the tony neighborhood of Callander Square.
Her sister Emily, now Lady Ashworth, uses her social standing to gain entry into the main parlors.
Charlotte plays more of a minor role here with Pitt and Emily being more active.
As in the previous (and I assume subsequent) books, social class and gender rules and roles play a big part in the story and in the mystery.
Nobody does a Victorian mystery better than Anne Perry and there isn't a better sleuthing team than Charlotte and Thomas Pitt!
Winners all around.Charlotte and Thomas met in the first book of the series and they are now married and expecting their first child.
Charlotte's younger sister has also married her titled suitor from the first book.
It is a good thing he has the help of Charlotte and her sister -- isn't it?Can't wait to read the rest of the series.
Another delightful mystery by Anne Perry. I was listening to this on audible so I forgot to put in here as a book I was “reading”. So many interesting characters. Although I would like to have seen more of the Pitts personal interaction. I did not figure out who was the murderer, but the lead up was all very intricate. One of the characters was such a coward I really wanted to punch him in the nose, lol. I’m sure if you like Ms. Perry’s style you will like this.
A while back, I tried reading the first few books of the Perry's William Monk series but for some reason I didn't really connect to it.
The books were well written and well researched but the Monk character just didn't draw me in all that much.
I enjoyed this book and I liked both Charlotte and Thomas Pitt (which is actually important when you're dealing with a series - how can you want to read further books if you don't like the characters who reappear in them?) I did have some issues with the ending (which of course I won't reveal so as not to give away spoilers) but overall I will definitely be pursuing further books in this series.
2/21/18 $.99 for Kindle.
Got about halfway done before my library loan ended. It was perfectly cromulent but not really anything I’m terribly motivated to go back and finish.
I liked this book, particularly the characterization of the people who lived in Callander Square, as demonstrated by their assumptions about who might have murdered two babies and buried them in the central green of the square, and the things they knew, didn't know, and didn't know others knew, about each other.
(view spoiler)[I felt a bit cheated that the actual murderer turned out to be someone who barely got a mention through most of the book, even though I was looking at that stratum of the social order all along the way.
Also, WHY bury the babies in secret?
As Thomas investigates, with a sincere desire to find the culprit, secrets about each household come out including sex with the servants, love affairs, revenge, gossip, politicking in society and murder.
This is the first book in which Charlotte involves herself in one of Thomas' cases.
This book, like the first one, has a point during a couple of pages where the whole mystery becomes solved in Thomas' mind.
I read the section a couple of times to make sure I was understanding what the author meant.
This is the second time I have read this book.
Immediately suspecting a poor servant girl, Pitt begins to investigate each household, causing an uncomfortable mood to hang over the residents of the square.
This proves to be very fruitful for Pitt as they uncover lots of juicy secrets of love affairs with servants and other Callander Square residents.
Charlotte becomes quite attached to several residents and works relentlessly to clear their names after they have been slandered and outcast from their social circles.Callander Square is a good cozy mystery filled with love affairs, blackmail, and murder.
I'd have raced through the print edition in no time.
The families and staff of this middle class Victorian neighbourhood are linked by class loyalties, business dealings and social ties, but Perry is mainly interested in their illicit sexual affairs and the ensuing gossip, conflicts, threats and blackmail.
There's not much substance to the plot/characterisation or to the detective story itself.I've been reading Perry's early mysteries, and her focus seems to be social history.
She's particularly concerned with social inequalities and the rights of women, or lack thereof.
I'll certainly look for the next one- but in print.
I think it has a good story near the end, however.
Even if, when you read it, you will not like how it spirals to an end.
Detective skills and good story plots, Inspector Pitt is flourishing in his marriage with Charlotte, as she learns to deal with the adjustment with being alone, but aims, spending time with her sister Emily, of course, because Thomas is always on his police duties.
Likewise just a little about her womanly intelligence and abilities where she spends all of their real time in her memory of proper society.
