https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3784.Movie_Shoes
It is middle child Jane, envious of her siblings' abilities and opportunities who is given the biggest chance of all...
It's quite formulaic, plot wise, but enjoyable for a reader, as you yearn for certain things to happen, and lo and behold...As an adult, The Painted Garden is sweet, cloyingly so at times, the children actually pretty annoying.
The awful stereotyping of Italian and 'coloured' accents also was though I suppose of its time, something I'd alter if I read it to my child.
I know it would have not been unusual then.Overall, a great children's classic read and a trip down Of-Its-Time Lane for an adult reader.
Wonderful read, and very unexpected too. I'd forgotten just how great her other books are and I'm so glad I gave this a chance. The writing is sweet and warm and the children's adventures are full of wonder. The Christmas scenes in particular really moved me, and the beginning of the book, about the family's first steps in America, is hilarious. I enjoyed this very very much and I can't wait to read and reread more of her work.
This felt like a slightly different Streatfeild book.
Of course, it's also (I think) the first one I've read for the first time as an adult.
And, unlike characters like Petrova, she is not happy being untalented.
fun, I guess.
But you get to see adult Fossils!!!
And I liked Rachel.
(I like Tim, too, but I guess he felt less distinct.
I guess Streatfeild's boys have never stuck out to me much.)But I am sad the book ended (view spoiler)[before Jane and Chewing Gum's reunion!
(hide spoiler)]
Like in Ballet Shoes (a favorite of mine as a girl), the youngest and the eldest children hold the recognizable talent and looks in the family and the middle child is prickly and difficult.The story opens with Tim, Jane, and Rachel eavesdropping on the doctor’s conversation with their mother, trying desperately to learn if their father will ever recover from the shock of accidentally killing a child who runs in front of his car.
When she gets the chance to play Mary in a movie of "The Secret Garden," she hopes that she will be the important Winter for once.
But because the famous Posy Fossil arranges ballet lessons for Rachel and Tim finds a way to earn money playing the piano, Jane doesn't become quite the star of her family that she had hoped.[Author:Noel Streatfeild] has a keen perception of children (or at least it seems so to me, as I do not).
Movie Shoes was a happy find at a book sale a couple of months ago.
Their parents just kind of hang around waving their hands admiringly and saying, "Well honey if that's what you want to do, go for it." The Americans are cardboard (did Streatfield ever visit America?) with stupid made-up sounding names like "Sneltzworther"--and seriously, "Bee Bee Studios"?
Streatfield certainly wasn't trying very hard.
But then Streatfield has a "thing" about curtseying in her "dancing stories."Posy Fossil makes a reprise performance from an earlier book--as I thought, going to Czechoslovakia in 1938 didn't work out, though we are never told how she and her dancing master made it to the US before WW2.
This was probably my least favorite Shoes book growing up, because Jane is a difficult character to read about.
This is a Streatfield novel, so the story starts with quite a set of coincidences: her father is ill and the doctor says he must get out of England for the winter; his sister lives in Santa Monica; Jane is wandering around Santa Monica when she finds a lost dog, whose owner is a movie producer looking for a Mary for his The Secret Garden.
Streatfield has characters like that, but they usually aren't given a story.
A typical Streatfeild family feature in this book: a gifted ballet dancer, a talented musician, and an irritable un-artistic middle child.
The family have the chance to spend the winter with a relative in California, and the middle child gets a chance to shine.
Family dynamics push this book forward; a lovely gentle read with humour and moving moments.
There are caricatures amongst the minor characters, but I don’t see that as a problem.I very much enjoyed re-reading this, and would recommend it to anyone who likes children’s fiction of this kind.

The painted garden is a heartwarming book and was recommended to me by my mother. It can occasionally be dry and boring but is normally engaging. It explores the theme of self discovery. It is about the Winter family, mainly the middle child, crabby Jane, and their adventures during their trip to America.
The only Streatfeild I didn't like. Could not warm up to the children in this story at all.
Another one of the great "Shoes" books. Noel Streatfeild used some of the knowledge from her own life to look at things most children's writers (excepting the greatest ones, the folk and fairy tale creators) don't: work, money, and envy. I read this one several times sixty years ago and remember it in detail. The great ones leave indelible memories.
I like the Winter family (even truculent Jane), and I love reading about their adventurous journey to Hollywood (they travel across America in a train!
It's one of NS's best stories, and we get to meet Sylvia, Nana, Pauline and Posy again, and hear about what Petrova is up to.
My Puffin edition is also illustrated by Shirley Hughes, just line drawings of course, but beautifully done.The descriptions of film-making are fascinating - but so are the descriptions of America, and family life on both sides of the Atlantic - it's a very absorbing book!
But I still enjoy the story.
I actually read my mother's original copy of The Painted Garden, published in England in 1949, and I read it to my 11 yr old daughter.
We both enjoyed it very much.
The edition we read does contain stereotyped dialog for different characters, which some modern readers may object to.
I also appreciate how many of the characters are less than perfect.
Streatfeild shows kids being kids, having meltdowns and jealousies, and coping with feeling left out.
She shows normal people coping with normal emotions.
I think my daughter related and hopefully learned something.
I enjoyed passing this book on to the next generation.
Reading the British version, The Painted Garden, which has some significant differences from Movie Shoes.So the major things cut out, from what I could see, were more detail about America and some key stuff about Bella the black servant and the Antonios.
The dialogue for them was VERY stereotyped, and there were a few things about Aunt Cora not wanting the Antonios around her that I don't remember from Movie Shoes.It's funny to me that I love Jane so much in this book, since Rachel is the ballerina and I always like the ballerinas.
But then I find Rachel insufferable, and Jane a grumpy delight.
I read Streatfeild for her marvellously eccentric style and her authentic-feeling child's-eye view and sometimes, like this one, because her books are total time capsules. (The bit where the children get told they're now foreigners is priceless. Also the bits where they experience ice cream sodas and strawberry milk for the first time. The world has moved ON.) Um, avoid if you dislike one-dimensional portraits of non-white or non-English speaking people - that is, I do dislike but I can skate over in things first published in 1949. Also [whispers] I'm fairly sure Peaseblossom is butch.
I've read this book so many times, the cover has fallen off, and the pages are yellowed from being outdoors and traveling across England when I was in elementary school.
But it's fantastic.
It's a brilliant portrayal of life for young children in England during the war coming to California, and then trying to adapt.
It's the perfect step back in time.I had to buy this in London, at a book shop that only sold out of print books by English authors, but if you can get your hand on this, you should definitely read it!
I wanted to love this one more than I did, since it is partly about the making of a movie version of The Secret garden. However, it is a victim of Streatfeild's writing - the principle child in the story is such a wretched little brat (and there doesn't seem to be an epiphany parallel to Mary's) that it makes this one less fun to reread than some of her others. That being said, I was still glad I read it.
Not nearly as good as Ballet Shoes or Dancing Shoes, primarily because, while the two oldest children are likable, and the father is a sympathetic character, everyone else is fairly horrid. And we're supposed to come to like Jane, and really, I just wanted to smack her, even as a child, throughout most of this. Still, I would have given this a 3.5 if that option was available.
I have always loved Noel Streatfeild's books and as a child I got my library to ILL them for me or hunted through second hand book stores to find all of them. She tells the perfect "girls stories". I was always able to find one character in each book that was my favorite. They definitely stand up to re-reads.
bought for Mom on ebay, $3.38+shipping. Also, this is not the correct edition.Title: The Painted Garden: A Story of a Holiday in Hollywood (Puffin Books)Author: Noel StreatfieldPublisher: Puffin BooksBinding: PaperbackPublisher Date: 29/01/1976Item Condition: used-goodISBN No: 0140301577SKU No: W3-L1-R072A-04915
A fabulous companion-of-sorts to The Secret Garden -- about a grumpy, awkward middle child named Jane Winter who ends up starring in a film version of it. It's interesting to consider them side-by-side to see how dramatically children's literature changed in a relatively short period of time (and for the record, I also love The Secret Garden!).
A beautifully written book about life in California and working in a movie (as a child actor) in the early 1950s. I love how Noel makes the characters imperfect but understandable, never a caricature, and how none of them is forced to become "nice" so there can be a "happy ending." This would make a great Miyazaki movie.
Not as good as Ballet Shoes, and yet, I found the story of the children very compelling. The narrative is very similar to Ballet Shoes, but played out against the backdrop of Englishness in the USA. I enjoyed seeing the country described through English eyes. Having Posy turn up was especially nice.
I've loved Noel Streatfeild since I discovered Ballet Shoes, my favorite book of all time, at age 9. It's always a joy to find a new "Shoes" book, as most of them are out of print in the US; this one wasn't my favorite of the series, as the British setting of the others was always part of the magic (and the non-English 'dialects' were truly dreadful) but still a pleasant read.
When I was a child, I never really thought about how strange it was that Bee's school friend moved in to help her raise her family. Now that I'm an adult and have read Savage Love a time or two, it seems kind of polyamorous.
I like it but probably would have loved it had I read it - or other books in the series - as a child. My rating falls somewhere between three and four stars. (I like to think I'll find the time to read Ballet Shoes soon.)
I liked Jane, the girl who was in the movie. This is my second (and last) Streatfeild. I'm just not enthused enough about the writing. I am too old to get these books, I think. There's not enough time anymore. I wish I liked 'em better, but they strike me as sweet and stale as day old cakes.
It was recommended to me by Goodreads as Movie shoes, then Marineke recommended this as a book by the same author, but its the same book! So now I want to read all the other `shoe` books as well. I think this is the series Meg Ryan is explaining about at the Fox bookstore in Youve got mail`?
It was recommended to me by Goodreads as Movie shoes, then Marineke recommended this as a book by the same author, but it´s the same book! So now I want to read all the other `shoe` books as well. I think this is the series Meg Ryan is explaining about at the Fox bookstore in ´You´ve got mail`?
Once again a rags to riches story. This one left me extremely envious as I often fantasized about a Hollywood producer one day discovering me and casting me on the spot. I've yet to see my name in lights.
