https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190524.Christus_Victor
Growing up in the evangelical church, I had always assumed that "penal substitution" was simply the only way of understanding Christ's atoning work.
As an historical overview, Christus Victor clearly shows that this tradition emerged from what Aulen calls the "Latin" understanding of atonement, which wasn't clearly articulated until around 1100 years into the church's existence!
While Christus Victor isn't an apologetic for any one atonement tradition (though it's clear that Aulen is convinced the "classic" understanding is the strongest), it is a supremely helpful survey of how different strands of atonement doctrine have emerged through our history.
Aulen has me convinced that the "Classic" idea of the atonement is the most scriptural and true way of looking at the Work of Salvation/Atonement, however I have a couple reservations.He keeps on saying that the "Classic" type (over against the "Latin" type) emphasizes the importance of the Incarnation, but I don't see how.
Why not just defeat the "enemies" in His unveiled Godhood?At the end of the book he points out that the "Classic" (Christus Victor) view has never been and will never be a "rational" theory or doctrine, but rather a motif, a theme, an Idea.
Triumphing over the powers, July 15, 2008This book provides an historically-faithful alternative to the substitutionary and exemplary models of the atonement.
Its (the book, not the model) weakness is its simplistic reductions of other theologians' thoughts.Overview:The Christus Victor model presents the work of Christ as a triumph over the devil, powers (demons), bondage of sin, and the "law." Accordingly, given its Eastern overtones, the atonement and the Incarnation are inseperable.
He redeemed it (still united to his nature) on the cross.This is to be contrasted with the Latin views of the atonement, which are narrowly penal.
Man kan helt klart förstå attraktionen av den här boken och varför den fick det enorma genomslag den fick.
Aulén skriver och argumenterar med otroligt tydlighet för hur "den klassiska försoningsläran" fallit i skymundan i teologin p g a 1700 och 1800-talets ensidiga fokus på subjektiv eller objektiv försoningslära.
I detta kan han säkert ha rätt, att diskussionen i mångt och mycket verkat ha handlat om subjektiv eller objektiv försoningslära.
Aulén är ju tvungen att nämna att Luther använts åt sidan med den latinska försoningsläran, men i kapitlet om Luther får man intrycket av att han helt och hållet verkade vara inne på att beskriva den klassiska försoningsläran.
Important for its day, this book is now largely discredited. Bad history and weak systematic imagination. If it merely gets the CV theory out it isn't a total flop, but it still requires much qualification and correction.
But Christ conquered death on the cross, rescuing humanity from the bondage of evil and thus restoring creation back to life and reconciling humanity to God. The key that Aulén emphasizes is that God himself reconciles humanity and creation back to himself and that He is both reconciler and the reconciled: "He is reconciled by the very act in which He reconciles the world to Himself" (5).
Thus, the entire life of Christ--from his birth to death and through resurrection and ascension--is the work of atonement through which God reconciles himself with the world.
More specifically, I have been bothered by the idea of the atonement as I learned it: that God demanded a perfect sacrifice to forgive humankind of its sins, and so God insisted God's own child die to serve as that sacrifice.Reading Gustaf Aulen's classic 1930 study of the atonement, I learned that if I had grown up in the 1800s during the heyday of liberal Christianity, I might have embraced the "subjective" view of the atonement: that God did not want to punish humans for their sinfulness, but wanted to demonstrate God's love for them so much that God's son was put on Earth to serve as a model and inspiration for how to live a blessed life with God.Aulen himself does not like this view, because it seems to make the death and resurrection of Jesus somewhat pointless.
After reading this book I am even more committed to the Anselmian view of the atonement.
Anyone who wants to think about the atonement should read this book.Christus Victor is indeed, as Aulen observes, not a theory but an idea.
I found Aulen’s own explanation of the atoning efficacy of the sacrifice of Christ vacuous because of his separating out the idea of satisfaction.
How else could the death of Christ deliver men from the wrath of God and overcome of the powers?And finally, Aulen argues that the motivating force behind the Anselmian view is a desire for rationality.
A thought-provoking read which does expose the distinction between Luther's understanding of the atonement and the other common understandings. It seems to have a few holes, here and there, but still well done and enjoyable.
(It is worth adding that Aulén is guilty of something similar in his reading of Luther; he uses a tenuously developed theme as the interpretive key to all of Luther's writing.) Aulén simply does not provide exegetical proof for his conclusion that the New Testament contained the resources that were refined by the Apostolic Fathers into the Classical view.(3) As a product of his environment Aulén is unfortunately dismissive of the Old Testament law, reducing it at points to nothing more than impotent manmade religion and forgetting that the law has always possessed an important place in Christian life and theology, which extends beyond it being a tyrant to be overthrown.
Both the ransom and the satisfaction theories strike me as psychotic, what with their personifications of good and evil, notions of perdurant individuality and general metaphysical conceit.
The theory of Abelard alone strikes some chord, but then Abelard generally seems more modern than traditional.
Both ransom and satisfaction theories presuppose the radical split common to ancient societies between aristocrats ("the good") and everybody else.
Still, it's hard to believe that educated persons, ancient or medieval, could buy into the mythology of metaphysics.
Aulén provides a different historical exploration of the development of atonement theory in contrast to what had been the standard to that point (written in the early 20th century) in academic thought.
From there Aulén works forward through the Middle Ages (Tertullian and Cyprian) to Anselm who provided the clearest development of the 'Latin doctrine'.
So much so that all other theories became reactions against this Latin type with the classic idea being largely forgotten.Although written almost a century ago this work provided such a wonderful overview of the classic idea of the atonement that I was thrilled in the discoveries being made along the way.
This book explores what the earliest church's model of the atonement was - which was the "Chrisus Victor" or "the Classic Model" (as Gustaf called it.
He explains how the legalistic model of the Western Church arose: first, he said, Tertulian planted the first seeds of a legalistic view of the atonement (he was a lawyer by trade and came to Christianity around the age of 40, so it was only natural for him to use legal terminology to express his thoughts).
The earliest Church, however, never viewed the atonment exactly like we do today and that is what the Christus Victor book explains.
Gustav provides what, in his time, was a groundbreaking theological resurrection of what he calls the 'classic' view of the atonement - that is, the view held by the Church Fathers and, as he argues, the Apostles.
His argument from the Fathers (particularly of Sts. Irenaeus, Gregorys Nyssen, Nazianzen and the Great, and Athanasius) is solid and nigh unassailable, though the exegetical and biblical substance of his argument is less than convincing.
Aulen's stated purpose is to outline the classic view of the atonement and to compare it to the objective (latin) model and the subjective (exemplar) model.
The classic view posits that Christ's incarnation and atonement was God's way of defeating the demonic powers that held humanity captive from within.
Both of these models are objective, but while the penal view rescues humanity from God's punishment, the Christus Victor view sees the atonement as rescuing humanity from demonic oppression.Aulen deals less with the subjective view, though he treats its main proponents.
Before Aulen wrote this book, the Latin and subjective models were treated like a binary in atonement views.
"Christus Victor" is mildly technical, highly accessible, intriguing and compact theology.
Any Protestant or Roman Christian will be challenged by this view of atonement.
Most Western Christians (Protestant and Roman) do not know that their understanding of the cross is only one of the Christian views of the cross.
Even if the reader disagrees with Christus Victor theology, Aulén's book is still a fascinating read which provides understanding of Eastern Orthodox thought.
"Christus Victor" is deep and enjoyable reading.
Many times I had to set the book down and just think for several minutes before moving on to the next paragraph.
No doubt, I will reread this book many times.
Aulen challenges the then-received wisdom that atonement theology was not seriously developed until basically Anselm, arguing that the first millennium of the church -- as well as the East since, and many in the West -- held a powerful understanding of the "atonement" worth bringing to the table.
Succintly and passionately he exposits this ancient alternative: Christus Victor, Christ is victorious over the powers of sin and death forever!
While most of the little details have been proven imprecise, the broader point is well worth hearing.
Christ the victor over powers and principalities may yet hold out hold, possibility, and the future for the world.
This is certainly an important book but I think it is flawed on several accounts. For the sake of brevity I will offer only two points of critique. First, I don't agree that Aulen has accurately grasped Anselm's doctrine of atonement and therefore sets him up as a rationalist before rationalism. Second, Aulen did not interact sufficiently with the primary texts, instead glossing over them as if he didn't need to quote his sources. But the books merits include the fact that it finally (back in 1931) offered a taxonomy on how to think through different ideas of the atonement.
Solid overview of atonement theology. I realize I can't understand the historical significance of this work, but given my reformed background, it definitely is making me think. It is a brief overview, though, so it does proceed remarkably hastily through a long, and much more complicated history (which he admits). I'd like more thoughts on how specifically a reformed atonement theology can be recast to allow for classic atonement theology, but that's not really his project, so I'll have to go elsewhere for that.
Christus Victor was one of the first books I read in my theological education, and it remains to this day one of the most significant defining moments in developing my theological trajectory. Though I am no longer an apologetic defender of the Christus Victory understanding of the atonement - or any atonement theory for that matter - Aulén's seminal book teaches us the lofty but simple lesson that the cross is not the *mechanism* by which God forgives, but is instead the overcoming of the powers of evil *because* God forgives.
One of the best arguments of the atonement theology you should read it Aulen says God sent his son as a non violent gift in order to remove the wrath of God from the saints and, because of that the atonement and the salvation plan for the human kind was firstly conceived in the mind of God, that is why the question Who killed Jesus? find its perfect answer here God killed Jesus because He loves me enjoy it
Technically, I don't own it: it's on loan. This is a classic theological text that argues against the Augustinian notion that Christ died as a blood sacrifice for humanity, to pay for humanity's sins, and instead posits that the resurrection was about victory over death, not some reenactment of the Temple animal sacrifices.
This book is very good if you can get past the learning curve. It is definitely not for beginners. However, once you make it through the first couple of chapters, it gets easier to read. Do not let the complexity of the book cause you to leave it off of your to-read list. It is very helpful in adding to or helping you develop your theology on the atonement.
A valuable elucidation of how Atonement was understood for the thousand years before Anselm got hold of it, how it was distorted further by the Reformers, and how a liberalizing backlash denuded the cross of virtually all import. Not a definitive treatment, but a helpful remedy for those raised to believe that there has only ever been one understanding of what happened on Golgotha.
This book is an excellent read! It's not an apologetic for Christus Victor, but a thorough history on the three views. It's definitely a prerequisite for any apologetic for or against it or for or against the other views.
Mind bending.
My dad said that, despite the unnecessary attack on forensic justification, he loved this book. Probably similar in ways to Stott's The Cross of Christ.
For an extensive review see http://kirkmillerblog.com/2015/09/15/...
