https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/551520.The_Wisdom_of_Insecurity
Any system approaching perfect self control is also approaching self frustration.
Such a system is a vicious circle, and has the same logical structure as a statement which states something about itself, for example, "I am lying", when it is implied that the statement itself is a lie.
In other words: I can't throw a pebble so long as I am holding on to it- so as to maintain perfect control of its movement.
Ignorance is the failure to see the basic self contradiction of this position - from which arises a futile grasping or controlling of life which is self frustration, and the pattern of life a vicious circle.
But I was in a lot of pain, and I felt lost in my life, and I needed direction.And this book provided it.I'm not sure to what I should attribute this success; maybe it was luck or chance, or maybe it was that incredible unconscious mind that Malcolm Gladwell described that read the reviews on the back cover and through some miracle of unconscious processing arrived at the decision.But I bought it and it was the perfect book for me.
I honestly think that if I had spent many years studying East Asian philosophy (drawing from literature and other sources as well, as Watts does) and compiling my findings into a short book, I would have come up with something very similar.
It's funny..., I showed this book to one of my brilliant high school students and he took a look at it and called it a self-help book for people who aren't strong enough to think for themselves and read Nietzsche.
The book also has an open/non-judgemental tone about it that sees the beauty and the divine in every man-made religion.
Most Westerners who get hooked on 'those mystical religions of the east' tend to be those who completely misunderstand the religions of the west and blame all the problems the last two hundred years (colonisation, the crusades, capitalism...whoops!, in my opinion that is not a problem) on Christianity and Islam.
To even attempt a review of this almost undermines the point, for Watts is writing about how definitions and descriptions always try and fail to fix what is fundamentally transient and flowing.
But to attempt anyway: This is a book about living in the present moment, and it kind of messes with your mind in that great expansive sort of way.
What if there really only is this present moment, unfolding forever?
I almost feel like it's a book to read on a regular basis, just to give the mind a good scramble every now and then.
If you are the type of reader that highlights the important parts, i would suggest just dipping this entire book in yellow dye. I read it in a little more than 4 hours but i could spend days talking about it. The clarity of Watts' writing amazes me. Highly recommended.
Utterly disappointing. It's like listening to a reasonably intelligent person talk out loud while cleaning his navel.Watts posits all sorts of random ideas without backing them up in any form (i.e. evidence or even further thought), and there is no clear logic to the order in which he presents these ideas. I was expecting a thought-provoking question or two to rise to the surface, so I kept at it, but in the end was left with the distinct feeling that I'd just listened to a stoner with a big ego ramble on for a while.
It's unbelievable that this short book was written in 1951, foreshadowing massive amounts of today's popular "self-help" ideology.
However, this makes the stunning revelations in the book less stunning than they would have been 60 years ago.
But it's a bit idealistic and very difficult to apply in practice.
It's a personal revelation, not an approach to building a society.
It's still a bit of a must read though, because Watts isn't trying to sell us on anything, instead, he seems truly invested in helping us reach the next realization.
Alan Watts is an ex Episcopal priest who converted to Zen Buddhism and then to Taoism, and then sort of moved beyond both in his own way. The Wisdom of Insecurity is a book that was for me life-changing. It argues, among other things, that insecurity, indeterminacy, is the truth of existence, and that to cling to particular things as if they were eternal is to waste your time and strength. He says it far more eloquently than I can. If you are the kind of person who asks questions, this is a book for you.
Watts was a pivotal figure in bringing an understanding of Zen Buddhism to the west and was conversant in religious and philosophical traditions of both East and West.In this book he explores the reasons why so many of our religious and philosophical attempts to deal with anxiety and insecurity, epidemic to modern society, are misdirected and misguided, trying desperately to avoid and flee these apparently painful feelings rather than to recognize their origins and, relinquishing dualities, in a paradoxical sense embrace them.
I would do injustice to his arguments to try to summarize them here, but his insights are profound and to me persuasive, and I feel fortunate to have reread them after almost two decades.
I saw this book as a sort of manual on how to train the mind to experience or be aware of what is now rather than dwelling in the past and the future.
What we are remembering about the past is happening right now and thus becomes part of our present experience.
Self-improvement implies a split of self, one of the past, negative view of the self (the mistakes I made, what I need to fix) and one of the future, idealistic self (an unrealistic ideal of the future self, that may or may not come to be).
If the self is split between the past and the future, how can it experience what is now?
حکمت بیقراری: پیامی برای عصر اضطرابهیچ وقت فکرشم نمی کردم شعری که چندین سال تو فکر و تمام جزوه هام بود، موضوع یک کتاب باشه!
جمله بیقراریت از طلب قرار توست/طالب بیقرار شو تا که قرار آیدتوقتی طالب یک امر ثابت باشیم، هرچیزی که برای آن امر ثابت خطری ایجاد کند، ما را مشوش میکند.
اگر دغدغه من این باشد که آنچه دارم دست نخورده باقی بماند، چون علل و عوامل بسیاری وجود دارد که آن را به مخاطره میاندازد، دائماً دلهره و دلشوره خواهم داشت و دائماً مضطرب و ناراحت خواهم بود.
زیرا جهان را با این امر ثابت و آسیب پ
زیرا جهان را با این امر ثابت و آسیب پذیر، برسرجنگ می‌بینم.
اما اگر طالب قرار و امر متقرر و ثابت نباشم، چیزی نمی‌تواند آرامش مرا برآشوبد.
آلن واتس می‌گوید: چون معتقدان طالب قرار هستند، بی‌قرار می‌شوند و چون مؤمنان طالب واقعیت بی‌قرارند، قرار می‌یابند!فرد مؤمن به هیچ فقره عقیدتی ثابتی دلبستگی ندارد و طالب بی‌قراری است، لذا هیچ تغییری او را تهدید نمی‌کند و او آرام و قرار می‌یابد.
اما فرد معتقد، طالب امر ثابت و متقرر است، لذا همه چیز ممکن است برای او خطرآفرین باشد؛ چنین کسی همواره مشوش و بی‌قرار است.مرور کتاب از آقای ملکیان
This book forever changed my life and irreversibly changed the way I look at anything and everything. Alan Watts has an ability to cut through the bullshit in human life and expose what it means to be alive: nothing.Read it with a fresh mind, read it more than once, and remember that Watts will often sacrifice the clarity of his point for a play on words or a joke.
Words could never do the contents of this book or the power of the author ANY justice.
There is some good stuff in here, and this is what I took away:• Live in the present, because the present is essentially all there is; the past and future are mental memories that we evoke in the present.• We have no assurance of a happy future, and if we make plans for a happy future, then we are making plans against reality, essentially.
Maybe it's because my woo-woo meter was moderate (around the same level as Eckhart Tolle's books) and that was a distraction from really trying to throw away my preconceived notions and understand what he's saying.
But in any case, there are some good insights that are worth thinking about.
I keep coming back over and over to this book. It helps me cope with tragedy, anxiety, and the pressures I put myself under. The simple message in this short book is one of surrender and non-duality. It is filled with simple examples illuminating eternal truths of all spiritual paths and applying them to the modern world.
First read this slim volume way back in the early 70s. Picked it up one day last month thinking I could reread it during a lunch hour between depositions downtown. Wrong! Every paragraph is worth five minutes' thought. But at the same time the concepts are so basic and so fundamental to everyday life. As I slowly proceeded, I was reminded of a great many other books from the same general time frame, including Aldous Huxley's  Island  and Kurt Vonnegut's  Slaughterhouse-Five . However, the one id
. However, the one idea underpinning everything said here goes back to antiquity, and is probably the heritage of Eastern mysticism.That idea is that each of us should strive to have "an undivided mind." This means remaining in the present moment instead of worrying about the past or the future.The problem, Watts says, is that "Our lives are one long effort to resist the unknown, the real present in which we live, which is the unknown in the midst of coming into being.
But to the undivided mind, death is another moment.

You do not play a sonata in order to reach the final chord, and if the meanings of things were simply in ends, composers would write nothing but finales.
When each moment becomes an expectation life is deprived of fulfillment, and death is dreaded for it seems that here expectation must come to an end.
While there is life there is hope - and if one lives on hope, death is indeed the end.
But to the undivided mind, death is another moment, complete like every moment, and cannot yield its secret unless lived to the full."
The madness of the thingis that when such facts are present, wecircle, buzz, writhe, and whirl, trying toget the “I” out of the experience.
Sanity, wholeness, and integration liein the realization that we are not divided,that man and his present experience areone, and that no separate “I” or mind canbe found.To understand music, you must listen toit.
But so long as you are thinking, “I amlistening to this music,” you are notlistening.He writes:There is a contradiction in wanting to beperfectly secure in a universe whose verynature is momentariness and fluidity.
Fair warning: This work is not for the faint of heart, nor for those who desire every writer to flatter what they already believe or to help them prove that they are “right,” and others are “wrong.” Alan Watts does none of these things, but instead challenges our constant striving for security and permanence in a world that in reality is always changing, exposing our endless search for security for the illusion that it is.
I need someone like Watts to challenge me with a discomforting perspective that forces my self-examination, even when he says things I don’t like.
Very difficult to give a such a highly regarded book 2 stars, but I'm playing safe with Goodreads' system that 2 stars means 'It was ok'.
Because if someone asked me what I thought of this book in conversation, that would be my likely response.In many regards a book ahead of its time, and for that reason I can understand its long-standing adoration.
There may be some beauty in that, in the sense of an organic stream of thought, but to me it felt untidy and consequently difficult to draw conclusions from his theoretical prattling (of which nothing was backed up with any real world reference).This is a book for some people.
And as such the vicious circle of worry tightens in on itself and worsens, turning into anxiety, which devolves into anxiety about the fact that you're anxious.
And so it goes ad infinitum, or until suicide, which will present itself as the only escape if this circle gets its way.In simple yet beautiful language, Alan Watts offers a explanation on how these thoughts arises due to illusions of language and the idea of the self.
It's the act of misunderstanding a symbol for what its pointing toward that create the illusion.
But it is exactly this pursuit that has tampered many efforts of humanity to reach some understanding, because a mind that is constantly wanting to understand itself has little space left to really think.
As Watts puts it at the end of the book:"Free from clutching at themselves, the hands can handle; free from looking after themselves the eyes can see; free from trying to understand itself thought can think.
The very impulse of understanding that brought me and many to read these kinds of books is what Watts will deconstruct on his writing.
This was a important book for me. It contains some really mind expanding ideas, and the way it was delivered spoke directly to me. I feel stronger now I've read it, and would recommend to anyone guilty of "thinking too much". The only reason I did not give 5 stars is the last chapter, which in my opinion is confusing and inferior than the rest of the book.
Beginning to think that everyone should read this book. Everyone.
Some of us seem to think that there is a distinction between the pain we feel and the self we create when in fact they are one and the same.
When fear or anger come around we take precautions or outright blame someone to protect ourselves from the hurt we feel, not knowing that the self is inseparable from that very hurt.
It's a false sense of self but it feels real, and it gives us a sense of control.
The symbolism is fixed and does not change but the process it points to does in fact shift, rearrange, flow and so on.In many ways we do this with ourselves.
That being said, here's a few ideas/themes he touches on: delayed gratification, the role of memory, materialism and wealth, symbolic representation, stimulation overload, consciousness, insecurities and loneliness.The book felt a bit scatter-brained at times — while Watts establishes his central premise in the very first section ("The Age of Anxiety"), he has a tendency to bounce back and forth between ideas.Unrelated: Watts lays the most poignant distinction for belief in religion and science I've ever seen — in that they're both functionally disjoint and intimately related (and in many ways, dependent — he makes the case that science without faith is impossible).Highly recommended.
Watts is probably one of the clearst writers dealing with the indescribable I have ever read.
In this book he deals with the major teachings of Buddhism including the first 3 of the noble truth, impermanence, no self and dependent origination without a single word of jargon.
Now that the publishing industry and the professional "psychobabblers" are on the Buddhism/mindfulness wagon, here is a dependable reference that puts all their gloss and marketing panache to shame with pure content; not a wasted self congratulatory word in it anywhere.
It's a must read ...
Se tunne, kun ei ole varma onko lukenut tämän aikaisemmin vai tunnistaako vain tekstin niin hyvin omakseen...Kovin kiihkeästi kirjoitettu teos, jonka vuoksi ehkä yhden tähden pudotin arvosteluani.
En osaa arvella miten tämä kolahtaa lukijoihin joilla on uskonnollisempi maailmankatsomus - onko kärkevä kirjoitustyyli poistyöntävää vaiko mukaansa tempaisevaa.
Mitään kosiskelevaa tekstissä ei ollut, konstailematon ja tiivis esitys.Wattsin viesti: mieli peilaa koko ajan.
Murheen painolasti on paljon painavampi jos siihen heijastelee menneisyyden muistoja ja tulevaisuuden toiveita, eikä onnellisuus ole koskaan "tässä" jos tavoitteet ovat aina "tuolla".
Aloittelijan mieli, irtipäästämisen taito, "minä ja muut" -erottelusta vapautuminen, kokonaisuuden hahmottaminen sen osana.
He has a beautiful way of writing, elements of the poetic to it, and some beautiful analogies (and who doesn't love a good analogy??), and just things to get you thinking.
And it is amazing to think this book is 60 or so years old.
As with all books that I've read in this genre (let's call it Western Buddhism, or wanky stuff that overthinkers like to read so they can overthink their way to not overthinking) there's parts that don't gel with me and there's other parts that seem so obvious once you read them.
