https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/556604.Black_Labor_White_Wealth_
I don't concur with every conclusion Dr. Anderson makes in the book, but his overall analysis cannot be denied - that enough White wealth has been generated consistently, time and again, from the ingenuity, creativity, and hard work of Black peoples in this country, and further, that laws and social paradigms were implemented in the Americas with the express purpose of preventing Black peoples from benefiting and prospering from their own ingenuity.Anderson does not ask any Black alive today to hate or deal out reverse prejudice for the injustices of the past.
It was phenomenal. It opened my eyes to seeing some things in a new way, such as the idea that the abolition movement failed because slavery wasn't to be battled as a moral issue but an economic one. And due to this failure, they actually helped perpetuate the very institution they supposedly sought to destroy.
Learn from history and make change for the positive
Very truthful. Mr Anderson speaks about the economical dillema that black people are faced with currently. I'll post more at a later date. Later!!
For example, when comparing the defeat over Native American to the slavery of Africans, Anderson states that the White settlers found the Africans to be less than human while the Native Americans were respected and needed for their knowledge of the terrain.
The fact that there was once billions of Native Americans, spanning all of North America into Canada and South America, now reduced to a few still living on a reservation DOES NOT equal to any form of "respect" as the author implies.
It would have been another thing entirely if the author had made this statement from the settlers' viewpoint, which he did not, so it was unclear as to whose perspective the statement belongs.
This is a must read for African American people all around the universe.
Informative Book that explained the history behind the wealth gap that Black people find themselves in today.
It is good for a quick read but for me, to really understand the issue of race, there are better books out there
Dr. Claud Anderson's book is truly an eye opener.
By reading his material, I learned more contextual information about the historical struggles of black Americans than I ever did throughout my 16+ years in school.
It is a shame how much our history classes have whitewashed the black narrative.
Hence, I believe it should be required that all black Americans, young & old, read this book to genuinely grasp the intricacies of how institutionalized oppression has impacted our communities.
Dr. Anderson's work is highly recommended and deserves a 5 star rating.
✨👍✨💰✨💚🌹
This book is powerful and informative ....You must read this book!
A great economic handbook for Black America.
* Understanding Oppression: African American Rights (Then and Now)Black Labor, White Wealth : The Search for Power and Economic Justice by Claud Anderson | It details how black people were socially engineered into the lowest level of a real life Monopoly game, which they are neither playing or winning. Black Labor is a comprehensive analysis of the issues of #race. #postslavery #civilrights
This book severly proves that black america needs reparations for slavery. From this book i learned how profitable slavery was for white america. it goes into detail from slavery to post slavery, to jim crowism, to a solution that the author offers in the end to even up the odds stacked against African americans in a capitolistic society after slavery.
Dr. Claud Anderson is a genius for this book. I absolutely loved the historical breakdown of blacks being disadvantaged economically. Anderson brings up some valuable solutions, albeit, far fetched. The information is invaluable to any naive AA that lacks knowledge about the wealth gap. The book is outdated, but the content is still relevant.
This by far is one of the best books I've read and I couldn't stop highlighting passages. I wish some of our entertainers would read this and combine their money and resources to start building Black communities throughout this country.
Good informative book that sheds insight on how wealth was established by some and the relationship of those who work and those who profit from the labor of others.
Outstanding
