https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111332.Into_the_Wild
I wish there was a higher rating, beacuse this is the BEST series in the world!!!!!!!!!!!If you like
Best book and series in the world.
I just can't stand them.The second thing you need to know is that I hate stories about talking animals.
Really, I get so exasperated and furious I fear my heart will stop working.Those previous points led me to think I was not going to like this book, but I decided to try anyway because I've had pleasant surprises, for example, The Monstrumologist.
If you're a fan of talking animals and you love stupid stories about pointless "warriors" cats, then this might be just for you.
BEST BOOK EVER!!(Comment below if you would like to join ThunderClan) You silently walk through the forest, alone and scared. You are hungry and tired, and are in need of shelter. Suddenly, you come across a young, tortoise shell cat."Hello!" she meows. "I'm Ravenstar."You nod in acknowledgment."Let me take you back to the Clan," she says. "We'll decide if we want to bring you in," her eyes glitter daringly, "if you're up to the challenge." Welcome to the ORIGINAL ThunderClan, where online AND k
You are hungry and tired, and are in need of shelter.
Welcome to the ORIGINAL ThunderClan, where online AND kindle GoodRead users can role play!UPDATES:- Welcome, Streampaw (jynx)!- We need mentors for Darkpaw, Spikepaw, Starpaw, Streampaw, and Waterpaw!Here's the list of ThunderClan members so far:Leader:RavenstarDeputies:Silverstorm (apprentice: Featherpaw)Stormsong (sagestar) (apprentice: Rosepaw)Firefall (Thomas) (apprentice: Lightningpaw)Medicine Cat:Icestorm (apprentice: Birchpaw)Warriors:Flowerclaw (apprentice: Blackpaw)FalconclawSoftleapWillowleaf(Trixi) (apprentice: Whisperpaw)TigerlilyFireheart (apprentice: Oakpaw)DarkmoonWaterflameSnowstripe (Lindsy) (apprentice: Hopepaw)MoonwhispererGoldenstorm (Adithya)Spottedfire (Strawbery Rose Gallagher)EmeraldstripeMoonfeatherMorningdawnSilverstoneRedclaw (Aidan)Skyheart (skysar)SparkytailWillowfall (Briana)MoonfeatherFoxfur (Aimee Bachman)Flameheart (Katlove92)Leafdapple (Florence)(apprentice: Goldpaw)IceslashAmberleafRedclaw (Sagestar)Stormsong (sagestar)Cherryleaf (Yellowfang2005)Icepelt (~LeafTheRainWing~)Nightclaw (lynx)SnowstripeApprentices:Birchpaw (Ashly Ketchum)Oakpaw (OPEN) Rosepaw Whisperpaw (Alayna)Darkpaw (kaufmask)Spikepaw Featherpaw Waterpaw Hopepaw Starpaw (LDSHADOWLADY)LightningpawGoldpaw (Satta)Streampaw (jynx)Queens:NONEKits:Amberkit (Maria)Craftkit (BLCRAFT)Elders:NONE
Warriors.
Warriors, Into the Wild is Book 1 of 6 (SIX!!) in the first of like---- a zillion series.
My 10 yr old daughter is in love with these books---she can devour one a day (and the way that they are churned out....) She is so into these that she asked my husband and I to give them a shot.
Sharks sorta way...
;)This was my first YA series that I read!!!Yah, yah, maybe it was something else but my poor memory remembers this one as a CRAZY FRICKING AWESOME SERIES.So yes, I was a little tiny 5th grader who  read in the back corner of the classroom who politely answered teacher's questions.
But when this gorgeous thing came up in my face, I was like...0_0Wha??.............AND BAM.*FALLS DEAD IN LOVE IN THE BACK OF A 5TH GRADE CLASSROOM*This book has action, has great characters, and guess what??!!IT'S FROM A CAT'S POV.Yup, you animal lovers, come this way.
This book is about a house cat who is tired of being a house cat and wants to go into the wild.
Then he mets a kitten from a 'clan' and goes with him into the forest and mets the rest of the Thunderclan.
This book sounds boring, but really, it is a great book.
There a four clans, Thunderclan, Windclan, Riverclan and Shadowclan.
It really doesn't sound that great, but you should just try, you will be suprised.
This is the first book out of all of them, after you have read it though, you need to read the rest.
I had just found my new favorite series! I recommend this book to anybody. it is an awesome book
My kids adore these novels, so I knew it was only a matter of time before I had to read them too.
After all, I like middle grade and YA fiction, and cats are cool, and Watership Down was one of my favorite novels of all time.
So how could a book about warrior housecats go wrong?If you're one of those people that hate cilantro, than any salsa with cilantro in it is going to hit your "ick, soapy" button and displease you.
This novel hit a lot of my ick buttons.
Both my daughters (ages 8 and 10) adore these books, though the younger one is not a strong reader and prefers the graphic novel version.
These books are written terribly but they've actually got pretty developed characters and they basically made me fall in love with reading in third grade or whatever?
four stars.I actually want to talk about why these stupid books made me fall in love with reading, because they truly influenced me so much.
I think the best thing about this series is the developed character work.
I actually think the characters improve throughout the series.
Yeah, the plot is a little weird and far-fetched, and the writing is pretty terrible now that I've grown up enough to see it, but this series is definitely good for anyone who likes middle grade fiction.
کلاً تجربه ی جالبی بودگاهی بسیار روایتش نوجوانانه میشد، گاهی بسیار به یانگ ادالت نزدیک میشد!توصیف ها و تصویرسازی نبردها واقعا جذاب و زیبا بودنشخصیت پردازی به طرز عجیبی عالی بود!ببینیم در جلدهای بعدی چی برامون دارن این گروه نویسندگانکاراکترهای مورد علاقه مم بدون شک:نیشزرد و کبوداختر
کلاً تجربه ی جالبی بودگاهی بسیار روایتش نوجوانانه میشد، گاهی بسیار به یانگ ادالت نزدیک میشد!توصیف ها و تصویرسازی نبردها واقعا جذاب و زیبا بودنشخصیت پردازی به طرز عجیبی عالی بود!ببینیم در جلدهای بعدی چی برامون دارن این گروه نویسندگانکاراکترهای مورد علاقه مم بدون شک:نیش‌زرد و کبوداختر
There are four colonies of cats and one of them is mean and steals the other colonies food.At first I thought this book was hard to read because even though it's written in English they try to translate cat words into English so it's hard to follow at first until you get used to the cat words.At the beginning of the story Rusty is a housecat and humans take care of him but then he decides he wants to be a warrior so he joins a clan of cats.
4.5یه فانتزی خاص و دوست داشتنی.واقعا نمی دونم با چی طرفم یه داستان فانتزی کودکانه یا یه داستان حماسی نوجوانِ رو به بزرگسال.
یه داستان در زمان حال تو دنیای خودمون توی یه جنگل با محوریت گربه ها.
واقعا این کتاب ظرفیت زیادی برای یه داستان حماسی داشت.
اگر به جای گربه شخصیت ها اورک بودن نیازی به تغییر در داستان نبود.
شخصیت پردازی واقعا خوبی داشت.
در حالی که توقع داشتم یه داستان مناسب برای گروه سنی نه تا دوازده سال باشه.
می تونم به جرات بگم جزو محدود داستانهایی بود که حس هری پاتر خوندن رو برام داشت.
چه بگویم در وصف این زیبایی :)خیلی کتاب نابی بود ، با داستانی نو ، تجربه ای تازه.اول باید اشاره کنم که واقعا ناحقیه که این کتابو در رده سنی میدلگرید بذاریم!داستان کلا حال و هوای یانگادلتی داشت بیشتر .آکنده بود از هیجان. هیجانش از قیام سرخ بیشتر نباشه، کمتر نیست.شخصیت پردازیش فوق العاده بود. اصلا انتظارشو نداشتم. الان تک تک شخصیتا رو به خوبی میشناسم!ضرباهنگ داستان هم کاملا مناسب و منطقی پیش میرفت.میتونم بگم، این قبایل و مراحل آموزش و جنگجو شدن ، به داستان حال و هوای ناروتویی خیلی قشنگی داده بود :)
چه بگویم در وصف این زیبایی :)خیلی کتاب نابی بود ، با داستانی نو ،‌ تجربه ای تازه.اول باید اشاره کنم که واقعا ناحقیه که این کتابو در رده سنی میدل‌گرید بذاریم!داستان کلا حال و هوای یانگ‌ادلتی داشت بیشتر .آکنده بود از هیجان.
Lo amé, fue como leer a Jack London versión gatuna. Sí, es un libro para niños, pero tiene una narrativa muy salvaje y realista, cosa que me ha gustado mucho. Me encanta, y quiero seguir leyendo el resto de la saga ♥
My absolute favorite series!!! I have almost all of them, and read them over and over and over and over!!! Great story to learn about the true meaning of following your heart, loyalty, and friendship.
I know this is a children's book but I absolutely loved it, though a fair amount of nostalgia may have gone into that decision. This is like Game of Thrones for children, but with cats! How could it get any better? Tigerclaw is the cat-version of Iago, and I'm in love.
One fateful day, Rusty finds himself walking towards Thunderclan camp, a whole new world where wild cats fight as warriors under the warrior code.
Training to become a warrior of Thunderclan, Rusty now named Firepaw, must faced the dangers that lurk in his path to becoming a warrior.
Firepaw wants answers, but he know he cannot get them in Thunderclan camp, knowing that Tigerclaw will attempt to kill Ravenpaw to keep him silent.
It's really, really hard to choose a favorite character out of this book, because there are so many cats to choose from.
DNF 28%I thought this was really bad. Right up there with The Magic Tree House and the Rainbow Fairies in terms of quality. That said, those books have their fans, just like these do, so you might like it, but I didn't. My kids loved it for the first few chapters and then quickly got bored and never wanted to finish it.
Mutta onnekseni kirjan lukeminen yllätti myös positiivisesti, kun kirja olikin aika sujuva, ihan jännittävä ja suurimmaksi osaksi mukanaan vievä.
Lukeminen ei ollut niin tuskaisaa, kuin olin ajatellut, ja luettuani kirjan ymmärrän, miksi lapset/nuoret pitävät tästä.
Etäpäivänä luin tätä ensin ihan antaumuksella (koska haloo, saan lukea kirjoja työkseni!), mutta sitten puudutti, luin muuta ja kun kirjaa en etäpäivänä saanut ihan loppuun luettua, niin kyllä vaan viimeisten muutaman kymmenen sivun lukeminen vei aikaa.
Teki mieli tirauttaa kyynel, kun kirja oli luettu loppuun.Tämä ei ole makuuni laadukkainta lastenkirjallisuutta, mutta ensimmäinen osa ei myöskään ollut mitenkään erityisen huono.
lol i was reminiscing about these and decided to revisit them and i firmly stand by my childhood decision to read absolutely all of them; they are truly addictive
I wanted to give the Warriors books the old college try, seeing as I love both cats and animal stories.
(The cats’ increasingly ridiculous “wild” names are enough reason to throw in the towel.) Perhaps it’s a case of too many cooks spoiling the broth: “Erin Hunter” is not an author, but rather a pseudonym for the multiple authors who churn out the series—which is more prolific than an unfixed colony of feral cats.Which brings me to another concern.
When one considers the dismal chances of cats in animal shelters (and for ferals, the euthanasia rate is nearly 100%), it’s not unwise to consider the reflection of attitudes about cats in popular culture.
It was a nice change of pace to go from books about world domination, destruction and lots of deaths and suffering to something much more relaxing and laid back. And though i admit it was a bit weird to read about clans of cats fighting, talking, having vision it was quite fun. Also being a big fan of Jack London in my younger days helped quite a bit.The story is nicely written, the pacing is also quite right and the story moves at a nice clip never being boring.So dig right and ignore the mousey aftertaste :P
It feels like it's trying to be Watership Down with cats, but seems to fail to realize the reason why Watership Down is so awesome is because the Watership rabbits are RABBITS: they're not human, they don't think like humans, they're their own unique culture underground and have uniquely lapine problems.It almost would have been better, or at least more honest, if the characters were anthros or something, but aside from being xenofiction that doesn't put enough thought into actually being xenofic, the main character is an insufferable little Marty Stu.So much wasted potential.
Kitty xenofiction has been done and done much better.
Warriors rp!!!!Comment below if you would like to join skyclanLeader: name/ tom/ color/ user/ ( if has) apprentice/ mates of RedwhiskerDeputy: name: flowerheart/ white and golden/amber101( amberleaf)/ apprentice: ravenpaw/ she-cat/ mate of ShatteredheartWarriors:Shatteredheart/ tom/ silver/ Amy/ apprentice: smokepaw/ mate of flowerheart.Rosestrike/ she-cat/ golden/ Amy.Name/ gender/ color/ user/ ( if has): apprentice.( Mate if have)...Queens: Redwhisker/ she-cat/ dark red/ Amy/ mate of leader( whoever will make him)Heatherfall/she-cat/?/Katniss Everdeen/ mate of?Kits: Redwhisker to be borns...Elders:Crismonflame/ tom/ black/ Amber101(amberleaf)...Med cat: Foxtail/ she-cat/ white with black fluffy tail and legs/ Amy/ apprentice:noneMed cat apprentice: none; closed. Will be one of Redwhisker kits
This is the first in the series, I didn't read it for a long time, and then I picked it up.
It was so good, I just had to keep reading it.
If you don't like cats fighting, or blood described, it doesn't necessarily mean you don't have to read it, there are plenty of other  good  parts in the book, especially where Graypaw, Ravenpaw and Rusty (known as Firepaw in the book) make friends of each other.
A brutal part is where Oakheart dies, but the story gets all mixed up, and eventually, drives Ravenpaw out of the ThunerClan camp!Read on to find out more of this adventurous and mystery like book!
I really do like anthropomorphic fiction, probably set in place by that classic The Wind in the Willows which I have read so many times I could probably quote it cover to cover. Ahem! So much for not liking Fantasy, huh? I enjoyed this though I was irritated by the animals 'mewing' etc instead of just speaking. I will read more of the series.
This review is for the all of the Warriors books (not New Prophecy or Power of Three or Omen of the Stars- just the first and original subseries) These books were amazing.
The Warriors series was able to hook me and bring me into the story.
These books are about a housecat named Rusty who joins one of the four warrior clans living in the forest, Thunderclan.
A note to parents: there are a few bloody fight scenes (not just in this book, but in the whole series), so I recommend to ages 11 and up.
If you answered cat, this book is for you!It follows the adventures of a house cat who escapes into the woods and joins a tribe a fierce wild cats who regularly engage in battles for more hunting territory.
The plot has a lot about nobility and it is easy to see parallels between this story and classic stories of knights and squires such as The Knights of the Round Table.
As an English teacher, I have several students who love this book and the entire series it is a part of.
This is the book that started it all for me.
I've always loved reading, but this is one of the first books I can really remember absolutely devouring.
I believe the series isn't what it used to be after 100+ books, but this first arc and the journey we go on with Fireheart will always remain one of my favorites.
I've read it countless times and never get tired of it.
This book is the very first in the Warriors series by Erin Hunter.
This book focuses on ThunderClan, and an apprentice named Firepaw who joins that clan.
