https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328813.The_Complete_Saki
If someone thinks old books are boring, reads a few stories out of this, and still thinks so, i can only conclude they are crazy person. This is ridiculously funny literature; I love Saki!
Saki is the master of the epigrammatic short story.
His later novels and especially his short stories written at the front show a widening of perspective and emotion, far beyond the cruel children, selfish gossipy women and beautiful witty young men that make up most of his earlier body of work.
Like a large portion of the young men he spent his time with there, telling stories to keep their morale up, he died senselessly.
Like a character in one of his stories, he died in a most ironic way.
Wowie zowie this guy is good.
Saki is a short story author and 900 pages of short stories is a long hard slog of a read, no matter how good of an author he is.
And he is good.
There were two novels and a couple plays built in too.
The novels made my back shiver as I finished each of them.
Saki is an Edwardian satirist.
He is darker than  P.G. Wodehouse or  Jerome K.
Jerome, there is no Jeeves to rescue Wooster and the stakes are much higher than a boat ride on the Thames.
Saki’s short stories are among the funniest things I’ve read in my life. Imagine O. Henry’s stories, with their surprise endings, as if written by Oscar Wilde — the sentimentality replaced by mordant wit and an utter delight in language and wordplay (“the black sheep of a rather greyish family”).These little gems — most no more than four or five pages long — are positively addictive. Try ‘The Reticence of Lady Anne’, ‘Gabriel-Ernest’, ‘Tobermory’, Mrs. Packletide’s Tiger’, ‘Sredni Vashtar’, ‘Wratislav’, ‘Laura’, ‘The Scharz-Metterklume Method’, ‘The Lumber-Room’.... -Alan
This is the most savagely funny writing I've ever stumbled across. I think it is a book to own, and read a few short stories now and then. Saki was recommended to me by a Science Fiction author speaking at a book festival. She said that Saki was her strongest literary influence when she was a young reader because he expanded her idea of what literature could be. Not sure exactly what she meant, but Saki has a crazy imagination, and he certainly packs a memorable story into a two or three page vignette.
Ugh."- WratislavWitty Miscellaneous Saki-sms"...glory hasn't come very much my way lately."- When William CameBy the time one has educated [aunts] to an appreciation of the fact that one does not wear red woollen mittens in the West End, they die, or quarrel with the family, or do something equally inconsiderate.- Mas Presents"If you're going to be rude," said Reginald, "I shall dine with you to-morrow night as well."- Reginald on the Academy"Cats have nine lives, you know," said Sir Wilfrid heartily."Possibly," answered Tobermory; "but only one liver."- Tobermory"We've got some Boy-scouts helping us as auxiliaries.""Boy-scouts!""Yes; when they understood there was real killing to be done they were even keener than the men."- The Unrest-Cure(view spoiler)["The Boy-scouts mistook my signal, and have killed the postman.
"He has a great many friends who have independent incomes," had been the answer.Tony Luton was a young man who had sprung from the people, and had taken care that there should be no recoil.He was more quietly dressed than the usual run of music-hall successes; he had looked critically at life from too many angles not to know that though clothes cannot make a man they can certainly damn him.Joan Mardle had reached forty in the leisurely untroubled fashion of a woman who intends to be comely and attractive at fifty.
Almost every single story HH Munro ever wrote becomes an immediate favourite. His writing brings to life the mediocrity and occasional poverty of the Edwardian middle and lower classes and the ridiculous oppulence and social ineptitudes of the upper middle Edwardian classes. Always written with a dark humour, Saki has been a firm personal favourite since early childhood when at the age of 7, I was introduced to Clovis in all his cheeky glory, Conradin, the soon to be late Laura and the very late Lady Anne.
One of my favorite memories involves reading Saki stories aloud to a friend while she drove her VW Beetle (the original ones, not the new type), full of all her worldly possessions, through a torrential thunderstorm outside Philadelphia. The Why of that scenario would take too long to explain, but let's say the whole day was pretty memorable.
B and N released a great compilation of his works last year that was very reasonably priced. Saki is like having drinks with your most sarcastic, funny, ironic friend -- you leave giggling, with your head still spinning. His stories are all about society life among the rich in England at the turn of the 20th century, and are deliciously mean. Come on, you can't always read about nice people.
I am more a kind of P G Wodehouse girl
I've heard of Hector Hugh Munro or Saki for a number of years but is one of those classic authors I'd never read that I decided to tackle this year.
"The Peace of Mowsle Barton" is a story of a peaceful village of warring witches while the pagan theme continues in "The Music on the Hill" where an offering to the pagan god Pan is spoiled by an unwitting young woman who is then gored by a stag's antlers.
Saki comes across as a very smart, self-aware writer of then-modern stories, but the stories don't measure up as well as they once did and as such don't have the same effect on the readers of today.
Somerset Maugham, but Saki has been in my heart since school day anthologies included "The Window" and " Mrs. Packletide's Tiger."H.H. Munro has been often described as malicious, which I have never thought was a good description.
Kind of like a tasting menu of 2 courses - simply not enough to sate the appetite and leaves one unsettled and dissatisfied, no matter how delicious.While my MOST favourite short story was, and is, "The Storyteller", I find that I like reading the entire canon - that as a whole they balance one another - satire, political observation, irony a plenty, mysticism, just desserts, wit, dissection, all meld into a complete experience.
Whenever someone gets together a huge bookful of short stories I always get tired and a little bored in the middle.
This happened here, but there were novels and plays in the back and so I just skipped to those.
But after about 100 one gets tired of them.
Now for the novels.
:( The final chapter was rather brilliant, I just didn't want it to end there.I did like When William Came, but I did not like The Westminster Alice.
But The Watched Pot was brilliant and made me giggle.
I never heard of Saki until I was in college, in London on a study abroad and we saw a play based on his short stories.
I laughed so hard I almost peeded my pants (it didn't help that we'd stopped at a pub first).
Saki wrote witty little stories about Edwardian society that sometimes, in "Sredni Vashtar" for example, turn quite satisfyingly horrible.
Saki did not have a particularly happy life.
His last words (supposedly) were "Put that damned cigarette out!"
Saki is a palate cleanser when you've been reading or writing dull prose. He'll help you see the folly of human nature and assure you that it's always been our fate to suffer from self-importance and self-delusion. He is gratifyingly mocking and merciless and impossible to imitate.You can't go wrong with the following stories:"The Open Window": compact perfection, one of my favorite stories ever"The Penance": Saki at his creepiest"Sredni Vashtar": perhaps his best story"Tobermory": Saki at his most pitiless"The Storyteller": how to while away the time in a confined spaceA book to keep permanently on one's nightstand.
Conniving countesses croqueting in tea gardens. Fox hunting in South Staffordshire with men of vague Teutonic complexion. Missing aunts, lugubrious uncles, and beasts of a great variety. 944 pages of luxurious Edwardian prose.
Here, he features in only one story, providing the title for the collection, and it is half hearted in comparison with the earlier Reginald stories.One of the strands in Saki's story telling is to write about something unpleasant behind a facade of apparently normal British life, usually something on the very of the supernatural; Sredni Vashtar in Beasts and Superbeasts is the most famous example.
The earliest of them, Gabriel-Ernest appears in this collection, incongrous alongside the society satire.The Unbearable BassingtonAt the beginning of Monro's first novel, the reader assumes that what they are reading is going to be exactly like his Reginald stories, but on a larger scale.

Ach ja. Ik vind het wel degelijk gedateerd, hoor. Doet me denken aan Oscar Wilde. Erudiet. Sprankelend. Maar oud-dated. Het pakt me daardoor niet echt. Heb overigens maar 1 verhaal en 1 novelle gelezen. Misschien niet genoeg om een gegrond oordeel te vellen? Sluit niet uit dat ik er nog eens iets uit zal lezen, maar ga nu eerst aan iets anders beginnen. Er is zooooooooveel moois te lezen!
Dry humor and wit, if you look for it.
Saki deserves more fans. "The Interlopers" is an amazing work of fiction with probably the best final word of anything I have read.
"This story has no moral. If it points out an evil at any rate it suggests no remedy." Saki is the true master of the comedy of manners. Molière, Oscar Wilde, and TS Elliot can honestly take a hike.
One of the greatest practitioners of the short form ever.
Great fun to read, which I've done in sips over the past year. If you enjoy Wilde and Wodehouse, you are likely to enjoy Saki's skewering of the entitled class in his short stories and plays.
“William,” is set in London after a war between England and Germany in which Germany was the victor.
It was apparently a relatively bloodless battle since the Brits were totally unprepared for war.
Although he manages to make fun of the class structure, he manages to show it as a weakness of character that could very well lead to the destruction of the whole British system.
In Westminster Alice, more a parody than a novel, he uses the Alice in Wonderland characters of Lewis Carroll to describe the current members of the government.
I suspect that this is more of a directed British novel than one that translates well across borders.
Let me set the tone of this book review with three simple words: I love Saki.I discovered Saki's writing by accident whilst rifling through a pile of unpromising paperbacks on a second hand book stall, and since then, that battered old book has been with me all over the World.
There have always been people who've made fools of themselves and Saki takes delight in prodding them with a few well chosen words.The stories are short but perfectly formed - each one is a satisfying morsel.
That story is called The Unrest Cure.In another story, well meaning parents give their children non-violent toys in order to bring them up to be peace loving.
But the revelation was the semi biography written by his friend Rothay Reynolds, whereby I came to know that apart from being a great story teller, Saki was a very honorable man , who ditched a life of luxury to go in to fight in the WW 1, who refused to take any special treatment in the Army for being Saki.
And he payed for all this with his life - shot through his head in the war.My respect for Saki has gone up many a notches after I read that .
There are and would be so many story tellers, but not one like Saki.
The short story is, with the possible exception of the sonnet in English, the most difficult literary form to write successfully.
Henry, he in turn influenced A.
I like to read short stories in small batches as I am am engaged in reading longer works, so I have been working my way through the Saki corpus for some time (there are a lot of stories!).
Saki was more successful as a short story writer than as a novelist, although there are two novels in this collection.
But if you want to be charmed by ingenious devilry, witty banter, and apricot waistcoats, look no further.Some favorite bits:Reginald on thank-you notes: "Of course I wrote and told my aunt that they were the one thing that had been wanting to make my existence blossom like a rose; I am afraid she thought me frivolous." (p.9)On a lady who has asked where to buy books: "You write pointing out that to have recourse to an ironmonger or a corn-dealer will only entail delay and disappointment, and suggest an application to a bookseller as the most hopeful thing.
