https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12770.A_Kiss_Before_Dying
”’You’re crazy,’ he told himself aloud one day, looking at the list. ‘You’re a crazy nut,’ he said affectionately. He didn’t really think that; he thought he was daring, audacious, brilliant, intrepid and bold.” 1956 movie version of the book. I remember it being really good.I can’t even tell you his name because he didn’t tell me until I was a  of the way through the novel. I thought I knew who he was, but I was wrong. You will be wrong, too, and I want you to be wrong because I want you to be
If he had not found what he wanted in these six jobs, he decided, it was unlikely that he would find it in the next six.”So our guy can’t find the perfect job and decides that getting rich on his own (he is so brilliant he should be rich) is a lot more work, takes a lot of time and a dollop of luck.
There was also a 1991 film version of the book, starring Sean Young and Matt Dillon, that I have not seen but from what I read deviates significantly away from the original plot.Ira Levin does such a wonderful job creating so much unease in the reader.
It is a must see for mystery lovers, and A KISS BEFORE DYING- Levin's first novel -written in 1953- is a must read!The story starts out like many stories do...Poor boymeets-Rich girlPoor boy and rich girl start datingRich girl gets pregnant...and this is where things get a little interesting-Poor boy- is actually a psychopath- only dating rich girl so he could marry her for her money.
The police rule it a suicide, but her sister Ellen isn't buying it, and goes to Blue River in search of the truth.
A KISS BEFORE DYING is a suspenseful well-plotted mystery- where one never knows who to trust.
Goodness.
A KISS BEFORE DYING is Excellent!I like Levin.
I like his easy-to-read style of writing.
I like the suspenseful way he plotted the route of the evildoer, and I like that he kept me guessing.I have to be careful here as I do not want to give anything away, but will say MURDER is the name of the game, and the story is set in the year's between 1949-1951 when tips were a quarter and young women were naive and gullible.Forbidden to attend the same college as her older sister Ellen, a shy Dorothy is feeling alone and vulnerable in a strange new world away from the safety and comfort of her family home until she hesitantly welcomes the attentions of a very handsome and charming young man and fellow student......with an agenda.And, that's all I'm going to say about this 1953 classic with a wonderful book-cover and Great Ending except......READ IT!
If   A Kiss Before Dying   were to come out tomorrow, I might use words like "predictable" to describe certain aspects of it. However, Ira Levin published this (his first novel) in 1954, which gives it the sort of satisfying, but olden-timey thrill I remember getting from watching the likes of Double Indemnity and Wait Until Dark in my grandparents' home as a kid. There's something different about witnessing 50s characters unwittingly fall prey to the machinations of a seemingly swell guy. After
were to come out tomorrow, I might use words like "predictable" to describe certain aspects of it.
However, Ira Levin published this (his first novel) in 1954, which gives it the sort of satisfying, but olden-timey thrill I remember getting from watching the likes of Double Indemnity and Wait Until Dark in my grandparents' home as a kid.
After all, not having been subjected to endless hours of crime procedural television, and without Google, those prone to trust don’t come across as cloyingly naïve.There's plenty of suspense and dread packing into a worthwhile, brief and classic mystery.Also, for the purposes of disambiguation, A Kiss Before Dying is not to be confused with 
A Kiss While Dying
A Kiss While Dying
Thank you, thank you, thank you to my friend Delee, who recommended this humdinger of a novel. Ira Levin, best known for his terrifying Rosemary's Baby, wrote A Kiss Before Dying as his first novel. The novel won the 1954 Edgar Award for Best First Novel, and readers will marvel that this suspense-filled thrill ride of a book could possibly have been written by a first-time novelist, one just 24 years old.Levin packs surprise after surprise into this novel, a book that will leave you exhausted when you release the breath you hadn’t realized you were holding. Highly recommended.
If at first you don't succeed, get rid of the bitch and move on to the next sister.A Kiss Before Dying is a taut little thriller about a sociopath who conceives an ingenuous plan to seduce the daughter of a wealthy copper baron.
She figures everything out just a little too late.And our boy, as long on audacity as he is short on scruples, decides third time's the charm: the rich industrialist had three daughters, and after all that research he did to seduce the first two, he knows the oldest sister pretty well...As improbable as this story may sound, I couldn't really spot any plot holes.
This book is an underrated gem, buried under the more famous The Boys from Brazil and Rosemary's Baby. But of the three, I found this to be the most suspenseful. The mystery is very well hidden; yet it's not a whodunit. The big revelation comes in the middle of the book: from then onwards, pure suspense carries it through.Challenge for Indian readers: identify the Bollywood blockbuster based on this novel.Read it!
Impressed... I am utterly impressed...! How on earth? How on earth did Levin manage to produce this? Oh my gosh! I might write an essay on this book for university in the upcoming academic year... Yes! I might! I really might! Perhaps I might even consider writing a dissertation on this!
I had to stop myself from trying to read this in one sitting! I struggled between wanting to get to the next scene and wanting it to last longer. Really great tension, suspense, surprises. Ending was low-key but appropriate! Wish Ira Levin was still around....and writing!
Everything begins like a fairy tale with one exception.
Here prince charming is ambitious though as poor as a church mouse and princess is a daughter of a millionaire.
I don’t reveal anything at this moment – you can read it on the blurb.Despite this, career and money are still at fortune hunter's hands because as luck would have it on the horizon appears the sister of the murdered girl.
Then, there's the last chance: third sister, which certainly won’t resist the handsome and mysterious seducer.
And so fairy tale turns into a real thriller with a surprising epilogue.
And indeed, that's pretty much exactly what A Kiss Before Dying is, on the face of it - it's a crime novel published in 1953 about a handsome psychopath who preys upon a series of rich young women in a bid to secure a stake in their father's fortune.And yet, while A Kiss Before Dying, by the late Ira Levin, has all the signature style and undeniable glamour of a somewhat noirish American thriller, not to mention a characteristically sensationalist plot, there's plenty to set it apart.The story begins with an unnamed young man plotting the death of his fiancée, Dorothy Kingship - a pretty, rich, naive college student.
I must say that while I pretty much saw it all coming (again not the book's fault it has been copied over and over) it is still obvious that this was masterfully written.I read one reviewer who said he couldn't help but sort of like our psychopathic (or possibly sociopathic) protagonist.
Levin while not actually trying to explain Bud's mind (and emotions) did give us a little insight at least into his background and where he came from.
Why do some see others people as only "things" to be used and manipulated?I don't know but their existence is in fact horrifying.
And money.I recently watched the 1956 movie based on this book, the one with Robert Wagner and Joanne Woodward, the one I had never connected to this book.
I watched it anyway but picked up the book from the library afterwards, thinking there might be some differences.
The few differences were probably made out of ease of filming or casting, though there was the addition of Joanne Woodward taking a awkward topple off a set of bleachers in the movie that didn't show up in the book.
Primarily because the scene in the movie was really strange.Also: Robert Wagner is creepy.
The novel was peppered with newspaper items relating to the various crimes of the story.
The thing that sets this book apart from other, similarly plotted suspense stories is the way that Levin plays with our emotions concerning the murderer.
For the first third of the novel, there is a small part of us that is sympathetic with this man; we almost catch ourselves hoping that he doesn't get caught, I mean he worked so hard to marry money I felt like he deserved it.
I definitely want to read "Rosemary's Baby" and "The Stepford Wives" now.If your into the hard boiled crime genre definitely pick this up!
It always amazes me how many people have never heard of Ira Levin.
Yup, everyone saw those movies but still they don't recognize Levin's name.
You know who did the murder because you're actually following him and his plans.
The plot thickens (as they say) and the murderer gets deeper and deeper into the hole he dug for himself.
The thing I really liked, once I realized it, was that the murderer's name isn't mentioned once for about half the book.
I recommend reading Levin in general, he's that good, but this is a great place to start.Levin was a genius.
I enjoyed and loved this book so much - I haven't had such a smooth and fab reading experience in a long time.
Fun, funny, dreadful, upsetting, really???, No way!
what????, twists and turns, boo boos here and there, but so worth every second of my time.
I don't know what genre this really fits into - it fit me in so many ways - that I don't care what genre it is typically put in.
What I know is that I was so sad when I read the last page.
I could easily have read another 500 pages.
Amazing suspense and unpredictably. Levin wrote this when he was 23 (in 1953), then was a very successful playwrite (among other hits, he wrote the popular Deathtrap). He didn't write another novel until Rosemary's Baby in 1967.
This was just deliciously trashy. I loved every page and can't believe how well it has aged. It's one of those rare finds - a literary novel with a pulp sensibility. Great fun.
So a GR friend's review of this book popped up at just the right moment and since I had enjoyed Levin's Stepford Wives, I decided to give it a whirl.
I puzzled over why Levin included the scene of Gant's ladlady playing anagrams.
(If you've read the book you'll get this.)As impressive as the storytelling was Levin's writing.
Wire-taught muscles, shaking knees, and "nauseous fear ballooning in her stomach." "The words cut off guillotine-sharp." "Sunlight, sliced by a Venetian blind, striped his stocky figure." "The house was a shabby gray box, one story, the sills of its darkened windows furred with snow."Well, okay.
Ira Levin.
****.Ira Levin (1929-2007) was a popular and prolific writer.
This was his first novel, and won an Edgar Award for Best First Novel.
His protagonist is “…a handsome young man, very appealing, very charming.
He is the kind of young man who can convince himself that murder is a method, not a crime.” This novel was adapted for film treatment twice, in 1956 and 1991.
There are some inconsistencies in the novel, but…it was a first novel.
It demonstrated early on Levin’s vivid imagination, and he remained a best-selling novelist and dramatist throughout his career.
Suspenseful novel about a charming gold-digging psychopath. Well written, with some plot twists and a great ending. Worth reading.
(This was not really a spoiler since it is obvious that the murder is going to occur.) But wait, she has two other sisters so he is not without a chance to get rich quick.Levin throws in an unexpected twist that I did not see coming about halfway into the book which is very clever and causes you to turn back to what you have already read to see if you should have known what was coming.
Nevertheless, it is a jewel of a book which has been overshadowed by some of Levin's other works ( Rosemary's Baby, The Boys from Brazil, et al) A quick and satisfying read.
As usual, I don't like to go in to many details about plot, especially in a book like this, where part of the appeal is the suspense, and not knowing what is going to happen next.
The book is classified by a lot of people as mystery/thriller, but that is a mistake, in my opinion.
As a result, we face a constant sense of dread about what is going to happen next, and a hope that the antagonist will get what is coming to him.That is more a hallmark of horror than it is mystery and thriller.This was Ira Levin's first book, which is pretty amazing to consider.
This was my first book by Ira Levin - I don't know how I've missed out for so long, but I plan to make up for it.This one was pretty suspenseful, although it was hard not to try to shake some sense into some of the characters.
I've read more modern books where a criminal that had either special access to online databases (like Google) or was a good hacker would learn about a victim by putting together bits of information on where they shop, what they order, etc.
somewhere between Jim Thompson and An American Tragedy... minus the fun and terror of the first and the weight and scope of the second. i don't really get what ira levin's all about. like Rosemary's Baby and The Stepford Wives, this book is ingeniously designed and executed but never feels like a damn thing.
I listened to the downloadable audiobook version from the library, so this isn't really a book read-read. Still, I finished listening to it. I've always loved the 1991 movie based on the book, but the novel is even better.
The only truly good murder mystery I've ever read (of all the hundreds). Outclasses Agatha Christie.
A Kiss Before Dying by Ira Levin is a prime example of how mysteries were written.
This tale is as much about the drama of the characters as it is about the crimes themselves."...His plans had been running so beautifully, so goddamned beautifully, and now she was going to smash them all.
He wanted to push her away..."Every young man makes a plan and he has made one for his whole future.
People wrote suicide notes and then stalled around before actually doing it.
In five hours and forty minutes she must be dead..."A Kiss Before Dying was written back in 1953.
A KISS BEFORE DYING is an Edgar Award Winning classic mystery that, arguably, was the beginning of the modern psychological mystery thriller.
Young handsome college student meets beautiful young coed.
Our handsome hero is anything but the hero.
We get to experience all of his thinking as he plans out his wonderful life that just need lots of money to be complete.
His "out there" reasoning is followed through from beginning to end in a book that constantly makes the reader want to warn the characters of impending danger throughout the story.
Must read for anyone thinking of writing psychological suspense.
Stephen King gives a shout-out to this book in his homage to horror, Danse Macabre, as follows:[Levin's] first book, which is unfortunately not much read these days...[is] A Kiss Before Dying...a gritty suspense story told with great elan -- rarity enough, but what is even more rare is that...[it] contains surprises that really surprise...and it is relatively impervious to that awful, dreadful goblin of a reader, he or she WHO TURNS TO THE LAST THREE PAGES TO SEE HOW IT CAME OUT.King then dilates on the sins of such a person for a paragraph or two.
