https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243308.Steel_Magnolias
Louisiana Usa ,anos 80 , seis   mulheres delicadas como asorquídeas  mas fortes como o aço  se juntam no salão de beleza Truvy’s Beauty Shop   para se ajudarem e para fortalecer Shelby Eatenton que sofre de Diabete e luta para ter uma vida normal.
Elas se divertem com brincadeiras , fofocas , mas na hora de tratar a vida com a seriedade , na hora de aconselhar ,ajudar,cuidar , elas se comportam maravilhosamente .Tente não chorar ao ler esse livro, tente não chorar ao assistir o filme de 1989 (Flores de aço ), que lançou Júlia Roberts ao estrelato, numa performance fora de série.Belo texto de Robert Harling , com ótimas adaptações para o teatro e o cinema.

This true story of a young woman battling Type 1 Juvenile Diabetes who just wants to live a normal life and the family who loved her is both heartbreaking and uplifting. That a younger brother would write this about his sister is testament to just what a wonderful young woman, daughter, sister, wife, mother, she was. As much fun as the play and movie were, the book is so well written. If you need a good cry, this book is it. Enjoy!
This play changed the way I interacted with other women; it allows women to be both feminine and strong in everyday life. The characters are multidimensional, fierce women and watching them interact with one another without the pettiness and jealousy which is so prevalent in fictional portrayals of female friendships is refreshing.
I had seen the movie years ago and was surprised that I liked it so much. Now having read the play, I'm struck not by the fact that the entire play took place in the beauty parlor (something that was mentioned to me after I had seen the movie, which at the time struck me as amazing), but the fact that the most memorable characters are the almost ancillary ones. It's more a story about life than about one particular tragedy. And the humor makes the pathos that much more impactful.
If I were to summarize "Steel Magnolias" in one sentence it would be this:A really good play with a terribly executed ending.
This play is separated into two acts, each act having two scenes.
The first scene in the second act was really good, but didn't have the same characterization skills Harling showed in the first act.
Even with the slight dip in quality this play was destined to be a four star read.
While the ideas Harling has for the play's conclusion have potential, the execution was so piss poor that I didn't feel anything but anger when the play ended.
I HATED how this play ended.
One of my favorite movies and I'd never read the play. Love it as much as I love the movie. Cried as much at it as I do at the movie, lol. So good.
Steel Magnolias is a play that takes place in the 80s. Robert Harling captures the essence of six very different women as they go on their lives, recounting on their adventures and misadventures in Truvy’s beauty parlor. This play is recommended to anyone who enjoys a non-descriptive play filled with banter of different women as their paths cross with one another in a small town in a Louisiana in the 1980s. The characters are somewhat original, with the acceptation of the classic stereotype of a
This play is recommended to anyone who enjoys a non-descriptive play filled with banter of different women as their paths cross with one another in a small town in a Louisiana in the 1980s.
The events in the story its self are rather original, and very interesting when discussed by the characters, which includes a mix of common shallow problems with comedic dialogue combined with deep and emotional monologues.
Steel Magnolias is a very unique play, and very easy to read.
This play is recommended for anyone who enjoys a quick play to read with an occasionally profound plot, balanced out by humorous dialogues.
I have very fond memories of putting this on in high school - including a now-classic line not included in the script...
During a show, some of the actresses got off-script and distracted, lost a line somewhere, and searching for anything, anything at all to say, Annelle ad-libbed to M'lynn, "Do you dye your hair?" Everyone cracked up, and then the tension was broken and floundering stopped, they found their way, and finished the show, but...
in a hair salon, really?!It's really a tearjerker, but it is a drama, not a comedy.
Steel Magnolias was one of the first big stage production that I was involved in so I have biased warm memories about it. I remember that right from the first rehearsal until the final show I was still able to laugh out loud and cry along with the show.
A true classic about the bonds of female friendship. Never ceases to make me laugh and cry. Love the stage version and the movie.
This play provides a wonderful examination of friendship during times both happy and tragic.
It's a wonderful mixture of humor and pathos, and never slips into bathos, or resorts to the modern tendency to shock or offend in the name of getting a laugh or being "daring." The characters are all distinct and yet believably entertaining as a unit, fitting together like hand in glove.
And, it avoids my perennial bete noir as a high school director: plays whose casts always have at least as many guys as girls if not more, and audition lists that always have at least twice as many girls as guys...
I'm a huge fan of the 1989 film and the stage play makes me realize how well-adapted the film is.
The play takes places entirely in the beauty parlor and in total, is 4 only scenes.
Most of what "happens" takes place off stage.
All the characters are as vivid and hilarious as the film paints them to be.
Some of the scenes clearly dramatized for the film are obviously played down, such as the funeral of a major character that is mentioned in conversation rather than experienced.
Overall, a fun, easy and touching read and a must for any lovers of the film or Dolly Parton.
Right after I listened to the recorded stage play, I went and watched the 1989 film.
While the movie was wonderful, I must say that I enjoyed the original play more due to its subtlety and simplicity.
Though mostly just chit-chats, these 6 women were so very fond of each other and free-spirited that the whole play turned out to be a humorous flow of non-stop bickering.
With simply 6 characters chatting aimlessly, the numerous funny statements with a tint of sadness nonetheless made Steel Magnolias a wonderful comedy.Incredibly witty and emotional.

This play offers an insight into the way that women in a small Southern town relate to one another as they share their lives, joys, hopes, dreams, illnesses and sorrows. Although they live in a world in which men treat women almost like children, they develop backbones of steel so they can handle the problems that life throws at them. Much of the dialogue, which takes place at the local beauty salon, is hysterically funny. The story itself is a bit dated, but it is still highly engaging.
What a play! This play is made up of all women, with mention of men, but none are present, which I thought was a very interesting choice and something that I haven't seen very often, but love. Each and every character is so different and fun. It would seem like this would be mostly fluff, but it wasn't. It was funny, but it also had important lines that made it more powerful.
Well... it was fun to read it in their voices! I have seen the movie so many times that I have it memorized but there are certain moments that really lacked the depth that the movie gives... I struggled with feeling the overload of emotion that I feel when I watch the movie. I am amazed that they took this small script and turned it into the masterpiece that I know today. It was fun to watch!
Having seen the movie, I knew what the sad outcome would be. With that said, I appreciated the "Southern-ness" of the story. Memorable characters made the play worth reading. I feel sad the play was based on Robert Harling's sister, Susan Harling Richardson's death. I laud Mr. Harling for his writing. The play was a good read.
This falls into the category of the rare piece that works well in different media. It's a strong, humorous, heartbreaking stage play, and it's a strong, humorous, heartbreaking movie. I will take it in just about any form.
Non potete immaginare la fatica immane per avere questo libro, che purtroppo non esiste in italiano! (meno male che conosco l'inglese!).Bello, esattamente come il film, è un libro che ti apre il cuore e ti fa capire la forza delle donne, dell'amore e dell'amicizia.
Decided to read it because my daughter is acting in the play. It is very short. Has some hilarious lines in it.
i was in this play and it was fun.
4 stars- Ms. Jenn
Hilarious and heartbreaking and packed with highly quotable lines.
A great read. I wanted more Southern Gothic tho.
When I learned this was a play first, I had to check it out. This story about women, told in one-liners and gossip, is an all-time favorite.
Real women facing real life together. What a nice change from the current culture that divides.
Beautiful and wonderful story...movie was very similar and kept to the script quite a lot. One of my all-time favorites!
Awesome play, I can't wait to perform it and to see the movie!
