https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15851746-proof-of-heaven
He rejects the possibility of a “reboot phenomenon” under which the brain creates a montage from disjointed memories and thoughts left over from the cortex before it shuts down.These explanations are all impossible, he writes, because the meningitis shut down his neocortex (though he suggests repeatedly that it was being destroyed) It seems, however, that Dr. Alexander quizzical mind didn't query one aspect of his experience: whether doctors closely monitored his brain while he was 'comatose.' We don’t get quotes from the doctors about this—and quotes from people abound in this book.
Nonsense -- it does not make him an expert on the "afterlife"2) The way he sequences events in the book strongly imply that he experienced these "out-of-body" events while his brain was effectively "dead".
He also implies that his brain suddenly came alive like a light switch when his eyes popped open -- more nonsense -- the human body (and brain) doesn't work that way.
I would have been more likely to believe an underwater world, or perhaps floating in the gaseous red-orange upper layers of Jupiter.4) a beautiful golden-haired girl with "high cheekbones" and deep blue eyes -- that one's a great touch -- what red-blooded American male hasn't had that vision?
When something doesn't fit into their belief system they want you go along just "because."This book explores the idea of the afterlife in a secular way and challenges the neuroscience doctrinal assertions that completely dismiss near death experiences (NDE), literally, as a figments of imagination.
Critics of this book point to its lack of discussion about what happen to the author, Dr Eben Alexander, during the NDE event itself.
He discusses how he had to reconcile his own preconceptions about NDEs and how he has been able to reflect upon his experience as a scientist.
It is why I read books like this despite the skepticism of the larger scientific community (after all, what else could they do but protest?) I also read, My Stroke of Insight, by the Harvard Brain researcher, Jill Bolte Taylor a few years ago.
Dr Alexander's book goes well beyond Jill Bolte Taylor's, in that she recognizes that she had a profound experience beyond the reality she had constructed as a brain researcher, an experience that fundamentally altered her sense of existence but one which she was much more circumspect about defining.
I was really excited when I ran across Dr. Eben Alexander's book on his Near Death Experience.
To my mind, his honesty and his vulnerability help to give this book integrity.It is very encouraging to all us NDE'rs who are out there, working to spread the word about what has happened to us, to find this kind of corroboration of both the reality and the value of our experiences.
I actually was going to give the book one star, but Dr. Alexander went to a lot of effort to tell us about him and his illness and to interview people who told him what his body looked like while he was ill.
If he was inspired to become a better person after his serious illness, it was because he got a glimpse of hell.
Don't waste your time - life is too short - and don't waste your money - there are better books out there to spend it on.
This nonfiction book about a neurosurgeon who suffers from a severe infection of the brain - so severe that it shuts down his neo-cortex and he drops into a deep coma - is one of the best Near Death Experience books I've ever read.
But when his brain completely shut down, he experienced a very deep entry into Oneness, and was miraculously brought back to life, not by medical intervention - they had given up and were ready to pull the plug - but by Divine intervention.
He struggled to reconcile what he knew as a physician and neurosurgeon with his experiences when his brain was completely "off-line".
Full bias disclosure: I will also readily acknowledge that from the moment I heard about Alexander's account, I desperately wanted to read it—and believe it.
His eyes were closed and he was unresponsive for mere minutes, but when they opened with a look of awe, wonder and yet, pure love and serenity, I smiled and said, "Where were you?" and his immediate response was, "Heaven, I hope.
As other reviewers have said, neither believers nor nonbelievers will be swayed by Alexander's account.
This was a hard book to get through because the author tried to prove through scientific method throughout that his experience was real.
Important, but not your typical NDE book.
"How do we get closer to this genuine spiritual self?
By manifesting love and compassion.
And they make up the very fabric of the spiritual realm." pg.
Om understands and sympathizes with our human situation more porfoundly and personally than we can even imagine because Om knows what we have forgotten and undertands the terrible burden it is to live with amnesia of the Divine for even a moment." pg.
I read this book because I know these people in it.
I have read my share of books about the Afterlife and NDE's.
Having said that, I do not believe that this book is like any of the others that I have read.
I have seen a lot of very ill-tempered comments and reviews about this book many of which seem to seek to tear down the character or intent of the author.
In my opinion, that is unfair and not a review of the book.
Alexander tried very hard to distance himself from religion and new age spirituality in the beginning of his book so he could seem more credible once he starts telling his outlandish story.
Contrary to what he says in his book he was clearly influenced by religion before his so called NDE and he was receptive or at least tolerant of New Age thinking.
The revelation about his birth sister toward the end made his book feel more like a novel with an unexpected twist at the end of the story.
What I am weighing in on is Dr. Alexander's integrity as an author.
I had heard stories of NDEs previous to reading Heaven is For Real, and new such credible cases did exist.Well, the other night I was flipping channels and stopped on 20/20 because, being that it was close to Halloween they were doing stories on the paranormal and the afterlife.
Eben knows the brain, and before his own NDE he didn’t believe that they were anything other than hallucinations brought on by any number of reasons.
The family sent him a photo of his sister and, you guessed it, he recognized her as his guide.This story is full of science, instead of manipulation.
The overarching premise of the book is that based on his experience of the NDE that death is not the end, that heaven exists, and that he is a scientist and was a skeptic and therefore is qualified to scientifically analyze what happened to him in objective terms.
I finished the book and excitedly went to the Appendix to find the hypotheses and presumably more scientific information supporting his position.
Not some argument from authority fallacy.Now, I want to add that I actually think that people do experience life changing events like this from various things.
It is beautiful to witness the courage it would take for a scientist to publicly express his discovery of faith. No small feat. For believers, the book is a message of hope. For skeptics, its another object of ridicule. Regardless, it is a gift to a humanity that is struggling under the weight of its own ambitions, greed, and fear in an increasingly uncertain world.
Just started listening to the audio version of this book and am enjoying it so far.
As a devout Christian, all I need do is attach the familiar religious labels I know to the author's experiences and it all fits together.
A favorite quote:"How profoundly knowledge of one's origins can heal a person's life in unexpected ways"another good one: "The false suspicion that we can somehow be separated from God is the root of every form of anxiety."update on book -- this just a fantastic book with many insightful nuggets.
Basically the entire book validates the concept of personal revelation/guidance.
The author narrates his experience with scientific details that validate "truth" as I understand it.
I highly recommend this book.
So I'm absolutely biased as I'm part of the Chapter 33 camp; It's a hobby of mine to read about quantum mechanics, string theory, consciousness etc.
Anyway, biased as I may be, Dr. Alexander's book contains concise neuroscience, interspersed with his life story and details of his NDE.
I did NOT, as some other reviewers did, find this to be overwhelmingly religious.
I'm not religious by any stretch, but I respect those who are.
To worry over that part of his story misses the point of the book entirely.
I give it a 5 star good read and recommend it to anyone with a curiosity on the subject.
If you are not totally dead, the brain is still functioning even if you are in a coma.
There is a lot about the mysteries of the brain we do not understand but we do know that it is the source of dreams and unconscious fantasies and we do know that it you are not dead, you are still alive.
Over the years he has heard the stories religious people have said they experienced and he is copying them trying to get a foothold in the religious book market.
Having someone who was in a coma write a book telling a made up story about a dream is NOT "proof of heaven".
A previously very skeptical brain surgeon had a powerful NDE and clearly receives the message that a loving power forms the universe.
The three main messages he received were 1) You are loved and cherished 2) You have nothing to fear and 3) There is nothing you can do wrong.
There was only compassion, and the love was unconditional."I liked Dr. Alexander's book and thought he had a very clear way of explaining the incredibleness of his experience as well as the reasons he had been skeptical and the reason he changed his mind.
I was especially interested since this man is a scientist and doctor and didn't believe it when his patients told him what they saw in their own NDE.
I did read many of the reviews before I purchased the book so I was aware that the author did not detail a lot of his actual experience and what he saw in Heaven, but I was still very excited to read it.
The author describes his experience in the Core, the Gateway and the realm of the earthworm's eye view.
Anita Moorjani's "Dying To Be Me" was a better book for help from her heavenly visit.
An appendix is included where the author lists possible scientific ways his spiritual experiences could be explained non-spiritually.
However, I think he left out a main explanation of his experience--that there will be a way to explain his experience scientifically in the future.
In any event, I think this is an important book to read.Note: Upon reflection of this book and its conclusions, I want to add that the truth expressed by the author, in my opinion, is his truth for his experience, and it is important to keep in mind that we all have our own truths, some of which we share with others--and that, most of important of all, some of which we don't share with others.
I thoroughly enjoyed the balance that his science/medical background gave to his story.
I, like the author, seem to have spent so much of my life in waning faith.
I found his compelling and credible story of great comfort.
I hope to hold onto those threads of faith and weave a blanket in which I can wrap myself in and allow me personal growth and aid in becoming a more loving me.
The most simple is because it will make you feel good...
And I don't know anyone that couldn't use some additional feel good in their life.
He should have died and his story alternates chapters between his medical condition that worsened day-by-day, and his concurrent experiences in the other realm.While on the “other side,” which Alexander states is really a dimension that is right here, he had a female guide who took him on a tour of the universe.
Alexander states that our physical existence on earth is like a speck of dust compared to the vast reality of love beyond space and time.
Without knowledge of our oneness with each other and all life, we are prone to random violence, escalating greed, global pollution and lack of purpose and meaning.Alexander states his scientific mind never allowed him to believe a loving God exists.
It has been known for years that the notion that memory creates a sort of “videotape” of personal events is simply not true (read anything by Elizabeth Loftus, such as http://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13...).
There are hints throughout the book that Alexander is confabulating and constructing memories (pg 82: “it will take me years to understand...”), but he ignores these completely when discussing possible natural explanations for his experience.
But history has shown time and again that objective and verifiable evidence leads to correct predictions much more often than an individual's personal experience (just look at vaccine denial).If your faith is fragile enough that you need “evidence” that claims to be science, then this is the book you deserve.
It's quick to read, because the story is so compelling, and the doctor/author has gone to great lengths to explain why this was NOT hallucination (that part of his brain was classified as completely nonfunctional at the time), or any other among a long list of conventional science's debunking explanations for NDEs. His unique experience refutes all of these arguments.The only flaw in the book isn't really a flaw: he can't yet explain how or why these things happened to him.
I don't read books about NDEs. I am on the skeptical side, yet spiritual too.
A book written by a neurosurgeon who'd been a big-time skeptic, who'd contracted a life-threatening illness (1 in ten-million gets his form of meninggitis), and spent 7 days in a coma during which he experienced a totally unique NDE...
I believe Dr. Alexander, and I agree with his assessment that it's impossible to accurately describe his experience in words (which might be why some other-NDE-readers are "disappointed" with his writings, per a few comments her on GR).
This book is a good one for a seeker.
His religious beliefs, as they are, mirror my own to a large degree.I read about 3/4 of the book the day I got it and at that point, and though I found some comfort at the descriptions of the complete love and acceptance he found in "Heaven", I was terribly disturbed at the fact that he met no one he knew, nor did he have any memory of his life on earth until he started his descent back.
Alexander's 180 degree turn from skeptic to believer, not only in an afterlife, but towards psychics, clairvoyants, etc., was well explained and again, a comfort to me.
A truly wonderful book.
A neurosurgeon, Eben Alexander, knew from years of work on thousands of brains that if the neocortex is shut down, there is no possibility of creating ideas or recalling memories or any other way of producing experience.
He recovered all of his memories and expertise, except for one thing, his "scientific" disbelief in the spiritual or any kind of afterlife.
In clear, non-technical terms he explains exactly what happened and what he discovered, that instead of the brain being the source of the spiritual, it is the other way around.
Dr. Eben Alexander should visit Pampanga, Philippines one day and surprise himself that the Kapampangans pronounce "heaven" and his first name almost the same way.Believers need not read this book for it says nothing new insofar as the prevalent belief system about the afterlife is concerned.
He was given away by his young, unwed mother for adoption just a few days after his birth because she (and his biological father) could not yet afford to raise a child.Many years pass, Eben becomes a successful neurosurgeon.
When I heard about this book, I pre-ordered it for my Kindle. Apparently I wasn't the only one. His website says the book debuted at #1 in e-book sales!I've been interested in NDE (near-death experience) literature since reading Raymond Moody's Life After Life in the mid-1970s. So I didn't approach the book as a skeptic but a believer, and one who is familiar with the genre.Dr. Alexander's experience is unique in several ways. 1. As a neurosurgeon, he was very much a scientist and a skeptic, so
His website says the book debuted at #1 in e-book sales!I've been interested in NDE (near-death experience) literature since reading Raymond Moody's Life After Life  in the mid-1970s.
So I didn't approach the book as a skeptic but a believer, and one who is familiar with the genre.Dr. Alexander's experience is unique in several ways.
His coma was caused by an unusual condition in adults: gram-megative bacterial meningitis, which shut down the neocortex of his brain, the part that medical scientists say makes us human.
For one thing, while in coma, he had no idea who he was/had been on earth.
Not really being a believer, it was very difficult to stay focused, which does not prevent me from respecting the beliefs of the author, on the contrary.The second thing that marked me is the end of the prologue: "and that's the truth" ...
All of a sudden, I saw myself telling my niece umpteenth time "just tell me that so I do not believe it ..." For all that, do not make me say what I did not say: I do not say that the author lies.
The same goes for the interpretation that is made of course.A book that hasn't left me good memories at all ..
