https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103610.The_Prayer_of_Jabez
I got as far as page 20 in this "Christian" best seller, then I read the following What counts is knowing who you want to be and asking for itI totally disagree with this statement, since when has the Christian life been about what we want rather than what God wants and has in mind for us?
The author suggests that we can access God's blessings by ritually praying certain words connected to Jabez, a little known Bible character.
God is viewed as a butler who responds in a mechanical manner when certain words are recited."The book makes a mountain of presumption out of a little verse in the Bible and then suggests that if a person is not enjoying massive material prosperity in their life, then they have not learned the proper method of praying like Jabez.
That doesn't mean God doesn't love us or that we're not praying right...What really annoys me about this book is that Wilkinson says that THIS prayer is THE KEY to a life of extraordinary favor with God....
I read this book in a couple of hours which is doable because its so short.
After reading reviews on Goodreads, I can draw one conclusion.
This book is for those who have reached some level of maturity on this walk.
The idea that the message he is spreading is one of new day American Christianity is upsurd.
The message he is spreading here is one I can totally identify with.
There comes a distinct point in your walk where you desire more.
What you desire is a thirst to touch more lives, to do more for Gods Kingdom.

A former student asked me about this book, which I had never read. So I read it. There really are some worthwhile things in here. Once you discount for the evangelical cheese, which is certainly there (let us be frank), the principles outlined are perfectly biblical and orthodox. This is no "blab it grab it" book. I am now inclined to think the send up we published some years ago (The Mantra of Jabez) was not entirely fair to Wilkinson.
I love always to read books on prayer.
I have read as many as I could when I was a Muslim and when I converted to Christian.
Frankly, I have read Muslim books on prayer that are more inspiring and blessed than this book!
Jesus says to seek the Kingdom of God first and foremost and all else will be added as a bonus when we least expect it, but not what these super-star American flashy preachers in the Evangelical Christian media.
This is frankly the worst book I have ever read in my entire life on prayer.
Jabez wanted what God did in his life to define him, not his name.Bruce Wilkinson explains the verse, line by line.Oh that you would bless me indeed - It's not wrong to ask for God to bless you the way He wants to bless you.
If we are loving God with all our heart, all our soul, all our mind, and all our strength like the Bible says, then we will pray Jabez's prayer the way it is intended.I have been praying this prayer daily for more than ten years because I want live the life God has planned for me and not miss out on any blessings from Him. I want all I do to be directed by God and not let evil keep me from doing all I can for God. You have to read through this book a few times to fully understand what the verse is all about.

I have also read the reviews on this website.
This book is for those who have experienced sorrow, who desire increase, who need practice in meditating on God's Word day and night.
This book takes one Scripture and teaches the principles of meditating on each of God's promises.
its not just this one scripture that you should meditate on.
It is an increase in whatever your soul lacks from God. So, to those who thought in buying this book you would find the biblical secret to an immediate increase in wealth, I suggest you go back and re-read the book from a different perspective.
It bothers me a lot when people try to predict God's behavior based on just one verse or passage. I felt like this book was promoting a mantra-style repetition of this prayer and telling people that God will act as a result. I felt like it was misleading, and I didn't enjoy the book at all.
Matthew 19:24Mark 10:25Luke 18:25
A quick book to read that will challenge your level of obedience and expectations (at least it did mine!). If you are looking to bear greater fruit and receive more opportunities to be used by God, then this book will help you along.
Our church read this together. We cannot manipulate God. This book is more on the focus of what can I get than on who God is. Yes God does want to bless us, however, our blessing is from our relationship with Christ and in Christ.
How to butcher the Bible with one easy verse3 December 2011 Okay, this is a very short book, but I tell you what, you can get more out of watching paint dry than actually reading this book. Somehow I get the impression that Wilkinson prayed the prayer in this book, decided to then write a book about how it works, and made a mint doing so. In these days of instant gratification a small book that takes five minutes to read is going to be much more popular than a book that actually addresses issues
How to butcher the Bible with one easy verse3 December 2011	Okay, this is a very short book, but I tell you what, you can get more out of watching paint dry than actually reading this book.
The book looks at a single verse in the bible (which is always a bad thing to start with) and from it develops a whole theology which is barely biblical.
Hey, during one of those encounters I even read this book, and praying the Jabez prayer to get this girl didn't work either.
Prayer is communication and relation building with God. Okay, we may ask God for a lot of things, but how often do we pause to say thankyou?
He uses the New King James Version and the verses go like this: 9 Now Jabez was more honorable than his brothers, and his mother called his name Jabez,saying, “Because I bore him in pain.” 10 And Jabez called on the God of Israel saying, “Oh, that You would bless me indeed, and enlarge my territory, that Your hand would be with me, and that You would keep me from evil, that I may not cause pain!” So God granted him what he requested.He goes on to break down the prayer into four parts and talk about each part and how to apply it in our lives.
It is kind of a scary thought to step out into doing things that are too hard for us to do alone, but I can see the wisdom in that.I also liked his thoughts on praying to keep us away from evil.
It's easy to beat up Wilkinson this book.
For all of the silliness this book spawned, Wilkinson did catch on a real truth that many of his detractors missed: when you pray, you better pray in faith as though, wild thought it be, God will answer.
And Wilkinson did not necessarily say life will be peaches and puppies afterwards.
He said God will prune you to make you bear more fruit (not sure how his exegesis of John 15 really holds up).
The problem is that the average Evangelical is going to get a hold of this book and treat it like a literal magic lamp.
I would give this book negative stars, if allowed. This is a book full of my pet peeves. Taking a remote scripture and turning it into a “name it and claim it” theology to live by. We aren’t Jabez. This scripture isn’t for us to claim more “territory”. If you have this book, don’t donate it. Throw it out. Don’t be complicit in promoting bad theology.
One of the best gifts I have received. A soul lifter when life presents itself hopeless. A word of caution...make sure you are ready when the abundant blessings pour and as prayers get answered....
So his little prayer moved the heart of God, that Jabez would reach out and believe that a God would love him and want more for him and believe in him more than anyone in the world did-- it was truly a statement of faith, and was so worthy of mention that the narrator had to stop midflow and record it for posterity sake.
The challenge is, since God is no respecter of persons, and if we come to him with a heart, like Jabez, to see him work in our lives for His purposes-- pray the prayer everyday for a month and see how God may move in our own lives.
Finally read this short book which has polarized the Christian community a number if years ago. I can see why many see its principles as basically an Americanized 'bless me' teaching but that would be unfair to the author. Yes it does deal much with personal blessing but the heart behind it is for the glory of God through God using us and 'enlarging our borders'.  All in all, definitely not anywhere near the extreme prosperity, name it and claim it teachings. Not bad at all.
61: dependence is power)53: we ought to be able to say, "God did that, nobody else!"54: progression of the requests—more blessing, more territory, more supernatural power61: it's up to you [:/]Chapter 5: Keeping the Legacy Safe63: more success means more opportunity for failure67: don't ask God for power just to endure temptation—ask Him to keep you from temptation (cf.
This book is a maddening simplification of prayer - at best.
I wish I had the knowledge to really tear apart his theology, which basically treats prayer as a means to personal success.
He may state that prayer is to ultimately accomplish God’s will, but in this book it seems that is always equivalent to our prosperity.
He pays lip service to some of the more complex questions about prayer by stating (once!) that you must be prepared for whatever way God chooses to answer your prayers, but only gives personal examples of God “answering” his prayers by bringing wealth, power, etc.
Or what if God is ultimately more glorified through your suffering than your prosperity?
A good little book, but one that should be read by mature Christians. I think it would be easy to misinterpret Bruce's message. It can very easily be twisted into material gain and possession. But if approached with the right mindset, it is a very powerful little read, and it offers a fresh perspective to an individuals prayer life
Don't get excited. Nothing in the prayer of Jabez is different than what you've been praying to God for your whole life. Only Wilkinson makes the audacious claim that God always answers the prayer of Jabez! This book seems to make God out to be a soda machine who is just waiting to act if we put in our quarters. It is rather self-centered.
Prosperity gospel sucks. This one sucks the most.
This was a nice and easy read - I found it very encouraging
The Lord’s prayer focuses the first 3 petitions on God, that He be glorified and obeyed, and the last 4 petitions are about what we should want as a collective Christian community.
Consider the following contrasts – the first petiion of the prayer of Jabez asks that I be blessed while the first petition of the Lord’s prayer asks that the name of the Lord be blessed.
While the Lord’s prayer focuses on glorifying God and preserving the Church, the prayer of Jabez asks for personal blessings.
A friend recommended this book to me, knowing that prayer has always been a struggle for me.
So I thought I’d give this short book (92 pages) a go.Opening line of the book: “I want to teach you how to pray a daring prayer that God always answers.” …..
The entire book encourages the reader to pray for blessings (not material things) because God wants to bless us.
- Stating that God is always going to answer a prayer is dangerous.
Primarily, it's a collection of anecdotes by the author of how amazing his life is for using this prayer every day, or how amazing he's made other peoples lives because he uses the prayer.
In between, he slips in how amazing he's heard other peoples lives became when they used the prayer.
Apparently, if you use this prayer you are able to make God your slave and God will fulfill all your dreams like your own personal genie in a bottle.
Apparently, the prayer has the capacity to overrule Jesus' promise that the life of faith will require crosses, burdens, and sufferings in addition to great blessings and fulfillment.
This is not the first time that I have read this book, but it is worth being read multiple times. The prayer of Jabez itself is relatively short. This book is also short yet it is full of wisdom and insight and, yes, remarkable. Breaking Through to the Blessed Life is a good subtitle. I had not previously submitted a book review or rated The Prayer of Jabez, so as I was 'once again' reading the inspirational writing, I decided to do so.
