https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77592.And_Be_a_Villain
A man is poisoned during a live radio soft drink commercial, and Wolfe dispatches Goodwin to persuade the popular talk show host to hire Wolfe to solve this notorious crime, thus ending the bad publicity. (For once, he is eager for work: he has a large income tax bill to pay.)This 1948 Rex Stout classic features Wolfe's first encounter with master criminal Arnold Zeck, Wolfe's Moriarty. If you have not read any of Nero Wolfe's adventures, this, followed by the other two books featuring Zeck--The Second Confession (1949), In the Best Families (1950)--is an excellent place to begin.
I know I sound like a broken record, but this is how the majority of the series' books start.
He sends Archie Goodwin to see a popular radio talk show host Madeline Fraser (think Oprah Winfrey before the era of TV) to accept his services in investigating a sensational murder which happened recently right in the middle of the show: a guest drank some soft drink from the show sponsors and fell dead.
While Sherlock Holmes has Professor Moriarty, Nero Wolfe's guy is named Mr. Zeck.
The books of the series never fail to entertain and amuse; the rating is 4 easy stars.
Rex Stout did it again. This is a detective novel featuring one of the best detectives Nero Wolfe who is an arm chair detective who never leaves his home to solve a case. All of the foot work is done by his brash, wise guy side kick Archy Goodwin. I recommend all of Rex Stout's books very highly.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
When you hire Wolfe he thinks he's the boss."I cannot remember when I first read a Nero Wolfe book.
Wolfe's travels are limited primarily between his plant room on the third floor with the orchids, his office on the ground floor, or the dining room where he enjoys the gourmet meals prepared by his personal chef, Fritz Brenner.
The case Wolfe chooses to solve is a murder that took place on-air during radio talk show host Madeline Fraser's program after drinking a glass of the sponsor's beverage.
He sends Archie to convince Fraser and the program sponsors to hire him to solve the case and end the bad publicity.
First, let me just say that when I was 16 and read this I never even registered that Archie Goodwin is ageist.
At 29, his comments about no women over 30 being worth a look gave me a strong desire to give him a good "talking to." Anyway, on to the book.
Honestly, And Be a Villian: A Nero Wolfe Novel disappointed me.
I will re-read at least one more of Rex Stout's books, but I have a terrible suspicion that the Nero Wolfe series will go on the list of things that didn't hold up for me over time.
Never have I downgraded a book 2 stars for ONE sentence before; but:Archie: "I am not incapable of using force on a woman, since after all men have never found anything else to use on them with any great success when it comes right down to it..." -- Really, Rex?
This sentence was so offensive, that I would have downgraded any other book automatically to 1 star.
It is, however, Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe series and as such I can't go below a 3 as much as I am turned off by the violent misogyny.
(There's something about his books that is simply addictive...
I give this one five Nero Wolfe sized stars. I love this series and I'm savoring them as my "go to" when I need a guarantee of a book that will keep my rapt attention and bring me out loud laughs. Solid, all the way around! We also get a teaser of Zeck- Nero's nemesis! You can read Rex Stouts books in any order, but I heard that you would want to read 13-15 sequentially, for this reason.
While solving the murders in this book, Wolfe crosses paths with a master criminal, who figures in the next two books as well as this one. I'm looking forward to seeing what happens next.
Was recommended to me as witty, but I didn't it find it particularly so. It was my first Rex Stout and it was OK, but I don't really see what the whole underlying Nero Wolfe set-up adds to the genre.
After finishing a Nobel Prize winner's dense (and seemingly endless) novel, I knew I needed to return to an old friend and that was a Nero Wolfe mystery.I have probably read this book five times, but I never tire of Nero Wolfe's grumpiness, Archie's cheekiness, and Fritz's cuisine (I am now absolutely longing for corn fritters!).
Stout's Arnold Zeck novels are among my favorites of the many Nero Wolfe mysteries; he is akin to Sherlock Holmes' Professor Moriarti---the evil genius who challenges our hero from time to time.
This short novel is the first of three in a Zeck trilogy that will be my Christmas reads.I couldn't think of anything more perfect to give myself for Christmas than a triple dose of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin.
Another fun read from Rex Stout. It's not much of a mystery, but that's not really why one reads a Nero Wolfe book, is it? The cameo by Arnold Zeck was interesting. I've heard he appears in other books as a kind of nemesis for Wolfe.

Since a total of eight bottles of the product had been consumed by members of the radio crew, the activity involved was directed at how the guest was the one who drank the poisoned one.
This challenged Wolfe to approach the people involved in the case – the various radio personnel and their several sponsors – with a proposition: He would work on and solve the case for a flat fee of $20,000 plus expenses.
The case is well-handled from his end, and the suspects all put up a merry chase as both Wolfe and Goodwin approach them to gather clues.
Great story!
Tralala, joy is in the air!
I actually came across a Nero Wolfe mystery I have neither read before, nor seen filmed, and a cracking good read it is.
Having been disappointed in the last case or two that I have revisited lately in audiobook format, it was an enormous relief to discover I have not outgrown the pantagruelian private eye.
In 1948, when this first came out, the power of radio was enormous.
Imagine then that a talk-show guest dies on the air while sipping the sponsor's bevvy!
Live--so to speak.Wolfe, of course, wants nothing to do with it--besides, the case is nearly two weeks cold.
Interesting. There is a lot of personality, and quick dialog. The characters are a bit cartoonish for my taste, and don't feel real. I can see how one could grow into them. I like the bits of humor, but in the mystery genre I'd rather see keen observations of humanity, and those were just missing.
always a joy to read Rex Stout and enter the world of Nero and Archie.
Archie & Wolfe were up to their standard forms and this book introduces the criminal mastermind Arnold Zeck (Stout's version of Moriarty) who appears in several other later books in the series.
It takes still more hard work and another killing before Wolfe can pin this one down.There is a charming scene where Archie demonstrates that he can be a darn nice guy when he wants to.
Having tricked Nancylee Shephard (one of the all-time great secondary characters in the canon) and her mother into grabbing the early, early train back to New York and Nero Wolfe, Archie, who is famished, tucks into a huge breakfast in the dining car.
I'm surprised Stout didn't leave Archie musing on the missed opportunity of collecting a commission from the dining car staff!One of my favorite scenes does absolutely nothing to move the story along; it's just a lovely little slice of Wolfe-life.
During each broadcast of her hugely successful radio show, she and her various guests indulge in a bottle of Hi-Spot (a show sponsor).
Now Wolfe's financial needs have landed him in the middle of it all--radio broadcasters, advertisers, sponsors, and the New York City Police Department.
Wolfe and Zeck cross paths again in The Second Confession and face off for the final time in In the Best Families.
All three Zeck books are well worth reading, though In the Best Families is by far my favorite.And Be a Villain is far from shabby, though.
In another fun hardboiled detective novel that blends humor and mystery in a way that is Rex Stout's own, this curiously mismatched dynamic duo once again solve a case that leaves the 1940's police at a loss.
Thanks to Archie Goodwin's dogged leg work and his employer's brilliant mind, however, that doesn't last for long.As in Stout's other novels, the mixture of humor with an intriguing murder case is key, as are the characters.
It is these characters and Stout's expert skill and weaving a truly engaging mystery that make this-- and other Nero Wolfe books-- so fantastic.
There's some solid Wolfe-Archie interplay, Cramer plays a fairly substantial role, and we get to see Saul Panzer actually failing at something, which is a once in a blue moon experience.
I love her, and every time I finish this book I spend some time wondering who she grew up to be.Overall, a good read and a solid entry in the series.(Ebook note: my copy wasn't, apparently, actually edited, because half the mentions of a character named Tully call him Hilly instead, which I enjoyed.
It was like a glance into a sex-inverted Wolfe universe.
I enjoyed this adventure with Nero Wolfe, the quintessential armchair detective, and his assistant/secretary/accountant/dogsbody Archie Goodwin.
The intended victim seems to have been a tipster who was a guest on a popular radio show discussing his racing tips.
But everyone at the radio station seem to get along, so no-one is pointing fingers.
But as Nero Wolfe questions the parties, and, with Archie's help, digs deeper, all is not quite what it seems.The story was written in the late 1940s, but I think holds up well today.
Archie is the narrator, and his witty comments keep a light edge to the drama.
I adore the Nero Wolfe mysteries--and they are terrific audiobooks.
Wolfe's and his sidekick Archie Goodwin's obsession with good food and fine flowers actually runs second to their obsession with integrity, logic, and clear-eyed thinking.
These are the qualities that make the books such comforts: Wolfe is a person fully in control of his environment -- an increasingly appealing fantasy for me -- but he is also someone who can extract the truth from witnesses simply by the force of his reputation, intellect, and personality.
One of the finest Nero Wolfe cases, considered as a mystery. The motive and method for murder are very believable, and yet the distractions grow out of that motive and method so naturally it couldn't have been any other way. Archie performs splendidly in his sphere, Wolfe in his, as they always do. Also, the only arch-criminal in the canon is introduced in this book. Not one to miss if you like reading Archie-Wolfe stories.
What do I think? I think I need to examine why I can accept the misogyny/sexism of the Wolfe/Goodwin duo just as a dubious character quirk. Is it that it's probably accurate that the early 20th century was full of people who regarded the opposite sex as potentially dangerous aliens rather then fellow human beings? "Men of their time" and all that?Eh, that's too deep for a hot Friday afternoon. Stout wrote damn clever mysteries, even though his clever heroes were also sexist twits.
A guest on a radio talk show collapses (cyanide) when he drinks the sponsor's juice drink. Nero Wolfe, short of cash as per usual, sends Archie Goodwin to the studio hoping he will be hired to solve the crime. He is, of course, and as always he uses the police to best advantage (to do his leg work) but solves the crime on his own. In The final scene, I'm not giving anything away here, the killer self-incriminates through Wolfe's adroit questioning.
A guest is poisoned during a popular daytime radio show. The police seem to have no leads, and Wolfe needs a hefty fee to offset his income tax payments. There are only a few people who could have poisoned the soft drink bottle. Then Wolfe discovers that the bottle was probably not meant for the victim at all. Archie chafes at Wolfe's inactivity in this one, but Wolfe comes through to find the murderer.
This recording was transferred from cassette tapes, and the constant change-over remarks are annoying, breaking up the story; and this book in particular has the sounds of coming from an old tape, sort of patchy sounds. Interesting bits about life in those days, including filing tax returns in March, in this story about a death on a very popular radio program. Was the poison meant for the host or the guest?
I enjoyed this one right up to (but not including) the end. I don't think I buy the explanation for some of the murders ... but hey, I'm no Nero Wolfe. This book is notable for introducing the shadowy Mr. Zeck, Wolfe's archenemy. His "Moriarty" if you will. (Though apparently Mr. Z. called Nero anonymously, or rather pseudonymously, on previous cases.)
