https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/98427.The_General_s_Daughter
I read this as my introduction to Nelson DeMille years ago.
I like the balance of the mystery and the humor of the protagonist.As a West Point graduate with the second class to have women, I think he explored a subject that few are willing to get into.Where does the quest for power cross personal ethics?
How much is an officer willing to give up for rank?
With classmates commanding the 18th Airborne Corps at Ft. Bragg and McChord-Lewis in WA as three star generals, I find the different paths we all took quite interesting.Nelson DeMille is an outstanding author whose work always has a great twist to it.Highly recommended.
I can't recall the first time I read this book but I know I have read it in hardback, paperback and now Kindle.
Warrant Officer Paul Bremmer is already at the base investigating a plot to illegally sell military arms to baddies.
He is called to a scene of rape / murder which is terrible and made worse when it is revealed the victim is the daughter of the camp's General.
Accompanied by Warrant Officer Cynthia Sunhill, a rape specialist, he peels the onion which is the camp and its personnel.
I figured out early on who killed the general's daughter, but DeMille did some skillful misdirecting to make me question my guess for a few hundred pages.
Some of the characters here are depraved in a way I wouldn't expect from DeMille, but they serve his purpose.
He highlights some problems created by having males and females serving side by side in the military.
The set-up is similar to DeMille's John Corey/Kate Mayfield relationship.
Pair him with a much younger, smarter but less experienced female who keeps him humble and is handy with the snappy retorts.
Works well for DeMille and his readers.
Very enjoyable and entertaining book from beginning to end. I am a big fan of Nelson DeMille and looking forward to reading more of his work.
It was a great who-done-it murder mystery, but also very true to life, with what goes on behind closed doors in the Military.Army Captain Ann Campbell, the young daughter of General Joe Campbell, is a West Point Graduate, and a very highly decorated soldier, until her body is found, naked and bound, on the firing range at Army Base Fort Hadley.
At first to Brenner, the case turns out to be just a normal rape and murder, but he and Sunhill learn that Ann Campbell had been sexually involved with many people, and they learn about her dark past, corruption within the Army, and a cover-up years back which lead to Campbell's death.
I have seen the movie so many times, that John Travolta as a rough and sarcastic military investigator Paul Brenner is burned into the back of my head.
This is one of those books I stayed up reading way too late, lost track of time, and had that addictive quality too it.If I was to become a writer this is what I would write about; suspenseful military crime drama, with political overtones, scandalous sex, women in power, strong women, sexual deviance, and psycho sexual revenge, incredible characters, an antagonistic duo of detectives.I would highly recommend reading this book and it's partner book Up Country with Paul Brenner in Vietnam.
Maybe 3.5 stars . . .I thought it was good . . . but I also thought it drug on a bit longer than it needed to in various places throughout the book. When I look back on it after finishing, I think it kept rehashing plot points in places that didn't need it - probably added 150 unnecessary pages or so.But, as I said, not bad in the long run.
What more than a place around General's and to don't be somebody like a friend... but to be a the "daughter"... from this look to see what's the feeling to be in type of person and you father to be the general.
The book was okay. I liked some parts, but not all of it. Still, I will read more books by the author.
Where have I been that I didn't know that this book existed or that it was made into a movie 10 years ago?!
I found Paul to be condescending and dismissive toward Cynthia, while she in turn, seemed to always be in the background, her character never fully revealed.
I'm glad I decided to try something new in reading this genre of book.
Definitely a page-turner and I have requested the movie from the library.
I'm looking forward to seeing the book's characters transformed to the big screen, especially John Travolta's portrayal of Paul.
In diesem Buch geht es um den Mord an der Tochter eines verdienten Generals der US Army, der von Paul Brenner und seiner Kollegin aufgeklärt werden soll.
Im Laufe der Ermittlungen kommt aber immer mehr zum Vorschein, so hat die Tochter eigentlich mit allen Army Größen ein sexuelles Verhältnis gehabt (sogar mit dem Pfarrer!).
Dies hat allerdings seine Gründe, die das Ermittlerduo nach und nach herausfindet.Wirklich sehr spannend geschrieben und wieder einmal mit den witzigen Dialogen, die ich sehr an Nelson deMille schätze.Gleich danach habe ich mir dann den Hollywood Film mit John Travolta als Vergleich angeschaut.
Und natürlich hat mir in diesem Fall das Buch besser gefallen.
تبدأ رواية ابنة الجنرال بجريمة قتل ، ونرى منذ البداية أنها ليست مجرد جريمة ضد فرد أو مجتمع بل جريمة ضد المؤسسة العسكرية ..جريمة ضد النظام والإنضباط، وإهانة لمفاهيم الشرف والولاء والحكمة العسكرية التي تتمثل في : " كل الأخوة بواسل ، وكل الأخوات فاضلات " ..ــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــــهذه الجملة تلخص هذه الرواية ..يبحث بول برينير وسينيثيا صنهيل المحققان العسكريان عن المتهم ،ويكتشفان ان للجريمة أبعاداً أخرى أعمق ..يختلط فيها الماضي بالحاضر ..
Nelson DeMille is such a great storyteller!Set on an Army base in Georgia, convincing characters fill the pages to tell the story of THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER, her shocking secret life, murder and apparent sexual assault as her body is found naked, bound and staked to the ground.
(no spoiler here)Fast-paced and full of sarcastic witty humor, Warrant Officer Paul Brenner and Rape Specialist Cynthia Sunhill's officious investigative techniques to uncover the truth surrounding Captain Ann Campbell's demise made for an entertaining and suspenseful crime read exposing horrific, inexcusable sexual misbehavior and corruption within the military system.Five stars for me.
Excellent murder-mystery!
The General's Daughter is a good crime fiction novel, but it's a straight-forward whodunit that doesn't have the humour and quirkiness of DeMille's John Corey series. Much like TV's JAG, The General's Daughter is about an army investigation into the murder of one of its own, in this case the general's daughter. The story is well written and is engaging, but the characters are not as fleshed out as in the Corey series.
Do not bother with the movie. And, yes, the book is sexist.
I liked the straight forward language in this older book. The bantering back and forth with Brenner and others was good too! A very enjoyable read about a very serious subject.
Spoiler Alert Do Not Read before you read the book....Colonel Wm. Kent, post provost marshal, never actually confesses.
He just blows his brains out.
My spouse (Jeff) doesn't at all agree with me, but I still wonder if the true killer was Mrs. Kent?
Was he protecting his wife?
Taking the blame?
After all, he had caused quite a bit of unhappiness and misery in their marriage.
We're all a heartbeat away from tragedy." I'll let you know if Nelson answers my question about the wife.
Addendum on 9/14/2013 Nelson did not answer my question re: Mrs. Kent, instead I now receive group emails about his writings.
twisting and suspense packed, but tell you what, I think the movie is better
From the first chapter, I really disliked the narrator/ main character/ criminal investigator, Paul Brenner.
He's an arrogant braggart who thinks very highly of himself and his accomplishments, and tells the reader how great he is often.
First person narrators are untrustworthy to begin with because you have no idea how much of reality they're sharing and how much their viewpoint is skewed.
But damnit, I began to like him despite the bragging because it became apparent through his interactions with other characters that he truly wanted justice for a murdered woman.
I liked it by the end.

I think this is the DeMille that hooked me for life.
Read this years and years ago and loved it. But I don't think I five-star-loved-it, you know what I mean? But it was good.
Good read that kept me guessing and turning pages late into the night.

The case is highly sensitive for two reasons: the victim was found on post naked and staked spread eagle to the ground, an apparent rape victim; the victim, Ann Campbell, is also the rising-star daughter of the fort’s commanding general, a hero of the first Gulf War with political ambitions.DeMille blends a hard-boiled narration with a police procedural as he takes the reader deep into the lives of the officers who served alongside Captain Campbell.
They also discover that Captain Campbell was as much predator as victim.DeMille, himself a former Army officer and Vietnam veteran, explores many themes in this book.
The movie centered a lot on Paul Brenner and it actually showed Brenner and the General's daughter actually meeting when that didn't happen in the book.
It's a pretty good "whodunnit" type of book that centered a lot on the case and less on the people that were actually involved in it.
Paul Brenner and Cynthia Sunhill apparently has a lot of history and were sexually involved but the author only gave the reader glimpses on "what's about to happen" to them especially in the end.
The ending of the book didn't have the pomp and circumstance as much as the movie did.Read it, it was pretty good.
This was the very first  Nelson DeMille novel that I ever read.
It’s also the only of one of his books (to this point) to have been made into a feature film.Paul Brenner is a JAG-type military investigator dispatched to an army base (the fictional Fort Hadley) to investigate a murder.
Campbell was an up-and-coming soldier, the poster-child for the ‘new army,’ and daughter of Fort Hadley’s general.
And plot-wise, DeMille throws enough red herrings at you to hold a fish fry.
Nelson DeMille's writing is top-notch.
It's so tight that I got hooked on the first three pages of "The General's Daughter." He weaves a tale so intricate, that the reader hasn't a clue where it's going or how it will evolve.
The protagonist is Paul Brenner, an officer in the Army's Criminal Investigation Division.
Brenner is an interesting character, cynical and smart.
And nothing about the case is easy.
But Brenner knows how to kick up dust in a sterile room.
Slowly they piece together a truly bizarre case.
Like I mentioned, the writing is great.
But it's great stuff.
It offers a greatly balanced and tasty mix of cop story, psycological analysys, fun, grieve a.s.o. contained in 400 pages.
Notwithstanding 23 years have passed since this book was written, the structure of the plot has aged very well and you hardly place this story so far back in time as the human nature investigated here is really out of the time.
The plot is 100% consistent and alternates moments of fun with deep moments of emotions.
Great job Nelson!
I also want to mention Scott Brick as a great reader of this audiobook.
Paul Brenner basically works for the Army's version of IAB.
He is asked to work on a sensitive case.
Together, they work on the case, slowly uncovering the truths hidden by an entire military base, and then some...The story was good, but I found the writing a little long winded.
I almost put the book down a few times, but had to find out who the killer was.
I did not enjoy it as much as other DeMille books I've read.
