https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/648535.Street_of_No_Return
Whitey was once a famous singer whose precious throat gets ripped to shreds after he refuses to let go of his love for Celia, a dancer and gangster's girl.
Now he's a down-and-out drunk living on Skid Row for seven years and going nowhere.
You can't help but feel sympathy for Whitey knowing what he's been through and to root for him now that he's finally found a purpose.
No way to push it aside or throw it into an ash can, or dig a hole and bury it.
This one had taken seven years."
Very dark and more unpleasant than not, but ending on a very satisfying note, with the depth that Goodis always seems to have.
Goodis views race riots, alcoholism, murder, police corruption and a deep seeded longing for a better place all through a tainted glass beer bottle.
Not only did he maintain an interesting plot set in the present but also enveloped the reader in the past - a time when Whitey wasn't a street dweller and his clothes not insect infested.
Even more interesting to read is how that past, and a women named Celia impact on the race riots happening around him in the present tense.
David Goodis's star is ascending in the noir writers' skies.
Goodis is an ace on several fronts.
I like his characters, especially the protagonist Whitey in STREET OF NO RETURN.
Once a promising golden-throated crooner (did his career remind you of a young Sinatra?), Whitey's life has wrecked, but the Skid Row lush still rises to the occasion to do one more heroic act.
I like Goodis's social commentary underpinning the story.
His secondary characters are unforgettable, especially Bertha and Chop, the pair of muscle goons.
The three-hundred-pound Bertha is as hardboiled a "dame" as they get in noir.
STREET OF NO RETURN. (1954). David Goodis. ****. Set in the seedy sections of Philadelphia, including Skid Row, this novel is one that really shows Goodis’s talents as a writer. It is not a murder mystery, per se, but addresses the plight of the poor and race relations at the time. As a native Philadelphian, I can remember the big headlines in the papers in the 1960s (I’d have to look it up to get the exact dates) that announced that Philadelphia was planning to move Skid Row from its then prese
Set in the seedy sections of Philadelphia, including Skid Row, this novel is one that really shows Goodis’s talents as a writer.
As a native Philadelphian, I can remember the big headlines in the papers in the 1960s (I’d have to look it up to get the exact dates) that announced that Philadelphia was planning to move Skid Row from its then present location along Race Street to one of three possible sites.
There’s a race riot going on between the whites and the Puerto Ricans that has stretched the capabilities of the police to contain it and put a stop to it.
David Goodis is the 3:00 A.M. poet of the lost and the forgotten - in other words the damned. Remarkable novelist that reads like a noir as a feverish nightmare. Wonderful book.
Anyways, the mob-boyfriend straight up tells Whitey; leave Celia alone or he will mess him up.
Whitey dreams up this terrible plan to flee with Celia, just pack what they can carry, meet at the train station at pre-arranged time and place and catch a train somewhere south the very next night.
Then one night, seven or eight years later, he gets in a tight situation; he's wanted for killing a Cop. He's innocent, of course, but it's not looking good for old Whitey.
Our hero is dumbstruck and begins telling himself how there is no way he can reach out or try to talk to her now; his situation is hopeless and he's likely a dead man.
or maybe just the archetype for him, all the usual suspects: sensitive artist type, thin frail blonde, criminals, cops, and then same plot: artist blindsided by love, girl held back by criminals, ruined and debased world vs transcendent purity of love, lost, lost, lost...
maybe i was mistaken in calling it 'nihilistic' because, though he loses out, there is tragedy, there are ideals, there is love...
but yes, this is a bleak book, this is a vision of the 1950s far not only in era from the comfortable uptown suburbs i grew up in and always already thought the whole world...first review: sad, sad, sad.
A "better" written Goodis novel - more care per sentence, more strategic distribution of plot shifts
Some outrageous business about a Frank Sinatra type crooner who gets his vocal cords mangled, so since he can't sing anymore he becomes a Skid Row lush in Philadelphia (Goodis Town). He's stuck in the middle of a race war between Puerto Ricans and the cops. It doesn't get more depressing than this.
It’s weird that the most revered genre writers, at least when it comes to mystery, tend not to have any of the qualities that genre books are supposed to have.
Chandler, for instance, couldn’t plot a narrative to save his life and Chester Himes’s stuff similarly has a weird tendency to run out in strange directions.
His experiences as being basically, a miserably impoverished alcoholic in Los Angeles, shines (glooms?) through the narrative, and the slice of life bits, about drinking shoe polish to get high or whatever, they really work, in a depressing sort off fashion.
The way the book starts you’d never guess that in another few pages, after learning their stories, you get the feeling you could end up like one of them.
But the star of this ensemble turns out to be a bum named Whitey, and it’s his story you’re gonna know best of all.
If you think you know where it goes from here, you’d only be partly right.THE STREET OF NO RETURN delivers on a higher level than a lot of crime novels because this book isn’t about a crime, it’s about a man -- not only how he ended up like this, but what he does with it all after he’s there.
By the third page I realized that I'd seen the Sam Fuller film (with Keith Carradine). There is a matter of broken vocal chords and broken heart. This book is a hard gem; be careful swallowing it, sometimes it chokes you.
A skid row vagrant goes in search of a drink one night...
An obsessed genius who didn't last long, but he could put Jim Thompson on the trailer anytime he wanted.
When Lindell chances to see a man from his past on the street, he follows him to Helltown, beginning the connection of the two communities in Goodis' tale.
Sharkey's two thugs, Bertha and Chop, beat Lindell to a pulp, almost destroying his voice while totally destroying his ambition.The book turns on character and atmosphere.
Goodis makes the reader feel the poverty and hopelessness of lonely streets and people in Skid Row and Helltown.
"The Street of No Return" remains a strong, brutal and sad novel with its rawness, depictions of place and character, and lyricism.I have enjoyed getting to know the novels of David Goodis through the Library of America volume.
i libri di goodis sono sempre una discesa nel lato sbagliato della città, e della vita.qui abbiamo w

Bums and thugs and crooked cops struggle for the scraps cast off by polite society and battle to be king of the hill of the trash heap.This genre defining classic tells the story of a golden boy whose rise to the top careens wildly off course when he crosses paths with the dark angel who would change his life forever.
This is the story of his fall and his struggle for redemption on his own terms.Samuel Fuller harnessed his maverick genius to adapt this story as his final film in the 1989 epic of the same name starring Keith Carradine.
Interesting, intriguing, hopelessly sad yet compelling read here!
Goodis mastered capturing the flavor and tone and utter sense of desperation of both skid row and Helltown in the darkly tragic noir tale.
Found it hard to keep reading, yet impossible to put down, all at the same time.
Pig like eyes buried in a sea of 300 pound flesh, beating the crap out of Whitey is a sight to behold...Makes you want to read, and not read, and yet reading prevails!A master of the dark, the dubious, the dreadful...Goodis tale is not one for the weak.
Gossenpoesie und Slumromantik Drei Clochards an eine Häuserwand gelehnt überlegen, woher sie noch einen Tropfen Alkohol bekommen können.
Einer von ihnen - Whitey - sieht eine Frau aus seiner Vergangenheit und nimmt fast wie in Trance die Verfolgung auf.
Diese Nacht wird für ihn zu einer Reise in die Vergangenheit, in der er sich schmerzhaften Erinnerungen stellen muss.
David Goodis schreibt in "Street of No Return" ("Straße ohne Wiederkehr") über die Verlierer und die Verlorenen.
Sie haben nichts, als den Alkohol und ihre Träume.
Und mit dem Mut der Ausgestoßenen hängen sie an ihrem Leben, ihrer Menschlichkeit.Eine Reise ins Herz der Finsternis.
Tiefschwarz und melancholisch...
What a great piece of 'noir' writing. We start off with three drunks sitting around scheming for their next drink. Suddenly, the quiet and wistful of the three, Whitey, sees something, stands up, and walks off. His sudden, mysterious departure takes him on a wild ride through his anonymous present and unexpected past. I'd been meaning to read more David Goodis since I read Down There in a Library of America Crime Noir collection. I read this book in two sittings. It was completely captivating. Highly recommended.
A good Goodis!As usual, the main character's obsessional relationship with a woman is the start of his problems, and his refusal to give her up the catalyst for his downfall.I liked the use of flashback to tell the story of Whitey's descent. It was reminiscent of the Paris flashback in "Casablanca", but dark, twisted and without a trace of noble sentiment at the end.I really liked Lieutenant Pertnoy and wish Goodis had made more use of him: a very unusual police officer.
I didn't like this title as much as Goodis's Cassidy's Girl. It still has some great feverish Goodis prose, and the protagonist Whitey is well done (as are the villains, Chop, Bertha, and Sharkey). The plot -- murder, race riots, coincidences galore -- is a little too stretched, but again nice set pieces.
David Goodis has become a new favorite of mine. This one was a quick read, but no less a great story for that. I enjoy this view of life through the eyes of a writer from the 40's, not as a steady diet, but I can tolerate it occasionally. Social mores were quite different then, and the treatment of his women is of the times, but not offensive.
Not bad for noir. A little slow at first, but then everything quickly comes together and ends. In a nutshell, this one's about a man who was poised to be a huge national or international singer until he fell in with another man's woman and throws his career out the window to be with her. Pleasant reading. Not the best, but decent.
This isn't Goodis's best but it's still well worth a read for a Goodis fan. Usual combination of his noir ethos, subtle characterization, and post-war's seamy side still works the charm. This one adds some nail-biting scenes, and has an all-in-one-night schtick that adds to the fun of the reading.
Great stuff. Really enjoy Goodis's noir. More complex than Jim Thompson (pop 1280, killer inside me). This one approached Algren in grittiness and despair. Prose not as good but an enjoyable quick read with nice plot twists.
This was my favorite of the Goodis novels in the Library of America collection. The blend of politics, crime, doomed (of course) love, and alcoholic despair make this unforgettable, and a true page-turner. I couldn't put this one down.
Another very typical Goodis work. Typical yet unique. Being a lifelong resident of Philadelphia, I find the settings of places now very changed, especially interesting. If you love Goodis, you'll love this one.
