https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23621.Beowulf_and_the_Critics
Tolkien's original essay, Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics, was amazing -- if only for its impact on the study of Beowulf.
I'm hard-pressed to think of any other essay that changed the world of literary studies so completely.
Anyone attempting to write about this poem, or wanting to read the academic work surrounding it, should probably begin here.
Although Tolkien may have been wrong about some of his conclusions -- perhaps, for example, the dating of the poem -- his influence on the field is remarkable.This edition, though, I would only recommend to people eager to go in depth into Tolkien's argument.
Not to be confused with The Monsters and the Critics and Other Essays, this book supplies Old English scholars and fans and scholars of Tolkien with two versions of the writings that lie behind that briefer and more focused work. It makes a wonderful companion to Beowulf: A Translation and Commentary, together with Sellic Spell.
This academic work by J.R.R. Tolkien, presented in two lecture drafts, is difficult to read.
I once tried to read it alongside a Beowulf text and never made it through the book.
Tolkien's insight into the text is fascinating, and I thoroughly enjoy his text-based analysis which stands in sharp contrast to the more speculative critical analysis of his contemporaries.
Tolkien desires to, for the most part, put aside all speculation as to the intent of the author and how much the story has been altered / changed, and instead interpret the story on its own terms, studying the dual pagan / Christian symbolism.
Men may worship or propitiate one or the other, gods or monsters, but he is not an ally of either.
Already before euhemerism saved them by embalming them they dwindled in learned antiquarian fancy to their mighty ancestors of northern kings, they are in their very being but the enlarged shadows of great men and warriors cast upon the walls of the world.
Viz: “What is distinctively Northern in the myth of the Twilight of the Gods is the strength of its theory of life.
In Summary: Read Beowulf & The Critics (B) and Explanatory Notes (A).
I found the edition I read (edited by Michael Drout)a little unusual, and it seems as if it's more set up for someone who wants to study Tolkien's essay, rather than someone who wants to read it in order to study Beowulf.
Explanatory Notes (A) and (B) are Drout's additions.
Because the essays are almost identical, most of the references are in section (A), while section (B) is filled with references like "see above, note 100." Drout finishes off with Textual notes, that showing the exact way Tolkien wrote some of his information (again, not really relevant to the study of Beowulf, but interesting to those studying Tolkien's analysis.)
This edition is a magnificent work of scholarship on Professor Drout’s part; his explanatory notes are worth checking even if you catch Professor Tolkien's references, since he provides copious detail and full contexts for the quotations.
The B draft here presented is greatly inferior to the final version, which shows how hard Tolkien worked to achieve his apparently effortless style; but it’s far longer, and covers far more material.
I didn't read this book, but the essay 'Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics' that came published in the Norton Critical edition of Heaney's translation.
As a life-long Tolkien fan and re-reader of his works, finally reading Beowulf was a revelation.
This theme is very strong in Tolkien's own fiction and the despair it produces is perhaps the key quality of those who finally give-in to evil (Saruman, Denethor, et al).You can also note certain commonalities between Tolkien's response to the critical handling of Beowulf and traditional Christian responses to 'higher' criticism of the Bible.
The final sentence alone makes reading the whole essay worthwhile.
Editor Michael Drout observes that this book will appeal both to Tolkien fans and to Anglo-Saxonists, and he offers his edition primarily to the readers who identify with both interest groups.
By publishing two annotated versions of Tolkien's text, it is possible to see the development of The Professor's argument and to see the degree to which this seminal work has seeped into the very fabric of twentieth-century Beowulf criticism.
For those who know Tolkien primarily as a maker of worlds, it is delightful beyond words to see him turn his laser-sharp intellect on the inferior scholarship of his contemporaries.
Beowulf es un poema épico anglosajón anónimo, que se considera un clásico de la literatura medieval.
Decidí leerlo, o mejor dicho, tuve que leerlo porque va a venir en uno de mis exámenes de literatura.
Y qué bueno que lo hice porque me gustó.En lo personal, no disfruto mucho leyendo historias ambientadas en la edad media, son contadas las que me llegan a gustar.
Anteriormente había tenido oportunidad de leer Beowulf, y a pesar de ser algo largo y sus innumerables personajes, es una historia interesante y muy buena.
Una lectura algo pesada cuando se lee por obligación, pero me ha gustado mucho.
This is the monograph that established Tolkien's reputation as an academic in the field of literature. While everyone else was trying (and failing) to interpret Beowulf as a disguised history of events at the time it was written, Tolkien recognized it for what Beowulf is: the first piece of imaginative (aka fiction) literature written in what was English back then.Good reading if you're inclined towards literary theory and academic study of literature. I think it also illuminates some of Tolkien's thinking that when into writing substantial fantasy at a time when fantasy was perhaps not regarded as serious literature.
This isnt the exact edition we read, but we recently read Beowulf. I normally read to the girls while we eat, but this was one I just could not read at the table! Pretty gory, pools of blood, guts, veins, it was pretty gruesome in parts. surprisingly, lots of moral teaching moments occured. I'd never heard of this book before and it was fun to read something so different.
This is an academic text that focuses on Tolkien's lecture about Beowulf. This book along with "Monsters and Critics" is credited with being one of the best and possible the first in describing the way to perform critical analysis on literature. It is a little hard to follow but if you are interested in Beowulf and critical review than this is well worth the time required.
This paper helps explain Beowulf as a work of art, and how some of the more puzzling bits, including those that other critics had labeled confused or inept, actually skillfully help create the intended atmosphere of the poem. As a casual reader who'd just read Beowulf for the first time, I found it tough going at times, and he assumes his readers are fluent in both Old English and Norse.
This is an important critical essay and a watershed moment in the study of Anglo-Saxon literature that deserves to be read and taken into consideration by anyone interested in early medieval literature.
I read Beowulf in Old English in a Norton Anthology text book. I've read it three times. It is our first example of the old Germanic hero in literature. I would recommend it to anyone. Of course, you don't have to read it in Old English like I did.
I had to read this 3 times for 3 different classes in college. I hated it every time!
I didn't read this version. We read Beowolf my junior year of High School in English literature.
I was shocked to find this in my study of Beowulf. Completely intriguing.
good not great
An excellent read for both the followers of the Professor, and those who would like to gain a deeper insight into the problems of Old English poetics.
I did have to think about some symbolism and what the author was implying for certain aspects of the conflict however after understanding the literary language, this book was very enjoyable.
