https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12022079-home-front
We've been around a long time now and have integrated ourselves into the military without being freaks any more.
Speaking of children, I tend to disagree with Kristin Hannah's portrayal of children in her books.
I happen to have a 4 year old and a 12 year old, and I could not identify with the Jolene's daughters as they were written.
She doesn't let her 12 year old come home to an empty house, but she goes running in the morning, leaving the 12 year old and 4 year old home alone and asleep.
After reading and loving Night Road I gained confidence in Hannah's writing, though.
Jolene's husband Michael tells her that he is no longer in love with her right before she finds out that she is being deployed to Iraq.
Whether or not you agree with the war in Iraq you will gain a new sense of understanding for our soldiers and their families.
Not only do they put their lives on the line during the war, but oftentimes they come home emotionally wrecked, and find out that the government doesn't want to help them get better.I feel like this book could cater to a much broader audience than her normal chick-litty dramas.
This book affected me in a very deep way. I have not cried this much in months (a year?). This book reminds me of how lucky I am to live where I live with my small hardships and my small sacrifices. I am so thankful for those who have given their fellow Americans so much by taking on large hardships and enduring large sacrifices. I strive to be worthy. I give this book my highest recommendation.
I tried to like this book. For the love of book club I really did. In the end I decided that there are two kinds of people in this world: those who like Nicholas Sparks and cats; and those who don't. I fall into the latter category. Kristen Hannah must be in the first.
Reading it reminded me somewhat of the experience of watching Lord of the Rings - cried through the whole thing for no good reason.
And there were all the orcs and elves running around*.Okay, really not so much like Lord of the Rings, but definitely stirring emotionally.
Same problems as any other working mom - maintaining a marriage, raising teenage kids, etc etc.
But unlike most working moms, she also had to go overseas into dangerous situations and fight.
I feel like one of the main characters is always an orphan.
The wife, Jolene, enjoys serving her country and cares a lot about her job.
Michael is the callous civilian husband who doesn’t like that his wife’s line of work.
(Are you sensing my sarcasm?) Of course, no story (and particularly one involving a military family) is complete without a wartime tragedy and so this novel goes its boring way along familiar plot lines.
I simply could not enjoy it because it relied too heavily on the usual cliches and didn’t offer anything new or enlightening to the reader.I guess I’m also just sick of novels about military families that rely solely on deployments to create drama.
This book initially caught my attention because it was about a female soldier in Iraq.
As a civilian we are actually clueless when it comes to the sacrifice and service that soldiers give to hold our freedom.
I think we forget the real men and women involved in War and focus on numbers or statistics.
Kristin Hannah reveals an intimate dual experience of both the soldier and the family.
She explores the journey from both sides before, during, and after war.
I love that she researched this story so well.
I was touched by this story and felt connected to the characters.
An intimate look at the inner landscape of a disintegrating marriage and a dramatic exploration of the price of war on a single American family, Home Front is a provocative and timely portrait of hope, honor, loss, forgiveness, and the elusive nature of love.
It is a very moving and humbling read.Kristin Hannah shows great understanding of the slow disintegration of a marriage, the terror of going to war, the angriness of being a teenager, the demands of a four year old, the struggles of a mother trying to hold it all together, of trying to be everything to all her family members until circumstances beyond her control bring it all crashing down about her.
All marriages have a breaking point. All families have wounds. All wars have a cost...  I just finished reading this really great book!! For a change of pace from my usual reads, it's actually not a Romance, it's more in the Women's Fiction genre but it's by an author whose writing I LOVE because she writes with such powerful imagery and raw honesty that it feels like you're living the story with the characters. This story is about a woman who serves in the military flying helicopters and who
For a change of pace from my usual reads, it's actually not a Romance, it's more in the Women's Fiction genre but it's by an author whose writing I LOVE because she writes with such powerful imagery and raw honesty that it feels like you're living the story with the characters.
I don't come from a military family, but the story is written in such a way that it FEELS real.
Ultimately, the blurb gives the perfect description: "At once a profoundly honest look at modern marriage and a dramatic exploration of the toll war takes on an ordinary American family, Home Front is a story of love, loss, heroism, honor, and ultimately, hope." Full review to come.
I find it hard to believe that the same person who wrote Winter Garden wrote this. None of the characters were even remotely close to being likable; they were all obnoxious whiners. If life gave you do-overs I would definitely invest the time I wasted reading this book in doing something else.
Michael and Joleen Zarkades are dealing with normal family issues - marriage, children, and work.
Their situation is complicated when Joleen is called to active duty and must leave her family to go into a war zone.This story is mainly from Joleen's point of view, but some of Michael's viewpoint is included.
Home Front address issues that many families deal with, like marriage and children, but also focuses on the complications presented when being a military family.
I enjoyed the story, but I didn't really connect to any of the characters, except for maybe Tami, Joleen's best friend.
Literally.Jolene, a mother of two and a helicopter pilot in the National Guard, is called up to serve in the Iraq war.
Never questioning her commitment to serve, Jolene must leave behind her husband and two young girls and fight for her country as she trained to do.This book really got to me.
At times, I found myself listening with tears running down my cheeks- especially after Jolene returns home from war.
This book is not an easy read, but an important one.
I am so glad that I finally took the time to read it, as it has been on my TBR for years.
As like most families life is always hectic especially for Michael who is a lawyer and and finds himself always working extra hours.
Whilst Jolene is away Michael struggles with day to day routines with the girls.
The girls desperately miss their mother and Lulu is always asking when she will be home.
In between caring for the girls Michael also tries to juggle his work which is always full on.
So will they be able work things out once she returns home?Jolene had no idea what to expect once she reached Iraq just doing the training was hard enough.
Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.I thought I would continue on with this book, just to see what happened, but once Jolene got to Iraq and saw the reality on the ground, I realized that I didn’t even care what happened to her (I know, I’m cold-hearted).
I also didn’t care what would happen to Michael or any of the other characters because the author made me hate them before anything even happened.
It’s sad because this book has a lot of potential in terms of character development and a sob-worthy plot, but I just didn’t care enough to finish it.
The premise of the story is a good one, but this story lacks the originality found in most of Hannah's books.
The character of Michael is the most well rounded and well written, because he's a flawed good guy.
The older daughter Betsy, 12 years old, bullied by the mean girls, yet wants to be one, bullies the son of Tami, her mother's best friend and fellow soldier.
When she and her best friend are suddenly deployed to Iraq, their lives are turned upside down as they begin to try and prepare for the unknown.
This story gives readers a raw, personal look into what soldiers and their family members go through before, during and after deployment.
I could not tear myself away from this story even though at times, it was gruesome.
Readers need to be aware that this book does contain very strong language and at times, graphic descriptions of war and injuries.
More conservative readers who wish to avoid profanity will not enjoy this book.
Then Jolene is deployed to Iraq, and everyone Learns Something and Jolene isn't so stoic and Michael isn't so selfish and brooding and Betsy isn't so bratty.
It's definitely an easy read—it feels a lot like an after-school special where every character is a two-dimensional type and then by the end they all realize how wrong they were at the beginning of the book.
And I hope people who don't spend a lot of time thinking about post-9/11 vets read this book and are moved to write their members of Congress.
Offensive to people who like good writing and characters (Lulu is that 4-year old that exists in Family Circle comics and in imaginations only).But it was this line that made me DNF at 16% or at the start of Chapter 18:"What kind of mother could leave her children?"WHAT KIND OF DAD puts his JOB over his family??!
She's learned to be hard as steel and cool as ice; her husband, Michael, is addicted to work and doesn't like how Jolene is in the military (uhhhhhhh, you married her when she was in the Army, sooooooo...) and is so independent and steely.
Michael was so lost regarding how to take care of his own children that I had to wonder, what on earth did he do with his two daughters when his wife was gone one weekend each month and two weeks each year?
I wanted to slap Betsy for most of this novel.
Betsy's outrageous rudeness to her mother would get most kids grounded for a month.
She was unlikable to the point that I wanted to skip over every paragraph that mentioned her name.And then, THE BIG COINCIDENCE!!!
Although I can say that I did enjoy this book, there were several times that I couldn't put it down, I have to be honest and also say that I cannot give it 5 stars and am not sure that I really want to give it 4 stars.
The storyline was very good, the characters of Michael and Jolene were likeable, by the end of the book I really wanted their marriage to work out and I felt terrible for everything they had been through as a couple and as individuals.
Finally- there were times that I felt like I was in the middle of a Public Service Announcement about the war, PTSD and the treatment of our soldiers.
Every now and then you read a book that is just so far above the rest of the pack that you know you will not soon forget it.
This book centers on the Zarkades family, Michael, Jolene, Betsy and Lulu.
And for little Lulu it is missing mommy to kiss her boo-boos, read her a story at bedtime and hold her when she’s scared.One sub-plot is that Michael is currently representing a veteran of the Iraq war who is accused of killing his wife.
I have read very little by Ms. Hannah before, but I am certain this is her best work to date and will be a tough act to follow.
She is married to a successful lawyer named Michael who seems to be logging more hours at the office than at home, and is getting pulled into defending a former US Marine accused of killing his wife.
Joleen and Michael have a teenage daughter who is struggling to fit in at school, as well as a four year old girl.
For me, the novel really revolves around the character of Michael, and his supposed growth through the novel, and his growing appreciation of his wife.
Unfortunately, Kristin Hannah paints Michael as such a horrible person and unlikable characters that by the time he begins showing us anything positive, I simply didn't care.
One night after Michael again missed an important event, and in a combination fo anger and guilt, he lashes out at Jolene and tells her "I don't love you anymore!" Within days she finds out she is being deployed with Tami to Iraq.This is where the true story of Michael, Jolene, Betsy and Lulu starts.
Jolene learns she is not a superwoman, Michael learns that words misspoken in anger and pain, can cut to the heart.I enjoyed every emotion evoked by this wonderful story, and can't wait for Ms. Hannah's next.
I thought this was a very well written story.
(I don't recommend listening to the audio while driving.
It's just not safe to cry and drive at the same time.) Unfortunately, there is a fair amount of language in this story and there is one intimate scene that takes place, however, I felt like it was handled well and helped move the story along.
( I thought that I should mention it just for those who like to have a better feel for what content is in the book.) Overall though, I was pleasantly impressed and surprised by how much I actually enjoyed it.
I don't think it's Hannah's writing or plotting.
I think it's me.As I was reading, I felt continuously yanked around by the author's Big Important Points: Military families must do their duty, even when one spouse is inclined to be liberal.
And on and on.There is no subtlety in Hannah's writing.
And--Hannah has an annoying way of sticking in descriptive details (the wallpaper, the shoes) that slow up the plotting.I see that readers love this book.
I think that has more to do with the manipulative plotting and simple, beat-'em-over-the head messages than with quality writing, complex characters or interesting story lines.
4 stars because I flew through it and was captivated by the story. One star taken away because almost all the characters annoyed me at one point or another.
Tear jerker from begining to end! Worth reading!
Acho que há livros e autores que têm uma altura certa para ser lidos e só resta esperar por essa leitura e não forçar.Adorei "O Regresso".
Escreveu sobre aquele tempo de formação depois de sair de casa mas antes de ir para o Iraque, sobre a chegada ao Iraque e a vida ali, o trabalho que fez durante uns meses, o acidente, a recuperação no hospital e centro de reabilitação, o regresso.
Kristin Hannah delivered an incredible picture of war and the personal sacrifice from our soldier's and the ultimate price some pay.
She reminds us that we can't sit back safely from our seats, jaded by politics or intellectualism.
" He'd argued with colleagues about it - while he sat safe and warm and protected in his country.
He'd argued about the true cost of war.
The cost of our war was here, in this room.
It was soldiers - some of them his age and others young enough to be his sons - who would come home wounded....or not come home at all".
2.5 starsThis was an audio listen. I found HOME FRONT to be overwhelmingly depressing. Clearly, this book tackles difficult topics of war, loss, relationships and PTSD. Nevertheless, I felt it was so dark in mood that I felt dragged down by the story and by Jo. I liked the realistic viewpoint of events, however there was a distinct lack of hope at any point. It is possible that listening on audio enhanced the emotionality of the story and therefore enhanced the depressive tone. I just didn't enjoy it. The narration was decent, single narrator and single POV.
