https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165034.The_Last_Letter_Home
(make that the only song you check out by this band, though ;p)There's also the movie with Max von Sydow and Liv Ullman and there's the iconic statue of Karl Oskar and Kristina, where he looks straight ahead towards the new land and she looks back, towards her home she'll be missing all her life.So, you see, the reputation of this book preceded it, for me.I've reached the end of this 3-volume journey with mixed feelings - happy to have finally added it to my 'books I love' list and sad because it's over - I would have gladly read through more volumes, detailing the lives of Karl Oskar and Kristina's children and grandchildren.I personally love this kind of book, but for the people that might not, I'm gonna say that the book's greatest achievement was bringing vibrant life to all its characters and presenting important events in an engaging manner, even as no detail was spared for what some might call insignificant or boring matters, like for instance the chores of every-day life (which I loved reading about, by the way).
Here is the 4th and final volume of the wonderful documentary fiction Emigrant Novels by Vilhelm Moberg, translated by Gustaf Lannestock (THE EMIGRANTS (1), UNTO A GOOD LAND (2), THE SETTLERS (3), and THE LAST LETTER HOME (4).
It was a wild-growing region, never before touched by ax or plow."The final book follows Karl Oscar and Kristina Nilsson in Minnesota during the time of the Civil War and the Dakota War of 1862 and the years beyond--- until both have died, and the relatives in Sweden receive the news in the last letter home.
...............The second of Moberg's four book series on 19th century emigration from Sweden to Minnesota UNTO A GOOD LAND continues to be fascinating.
Det är ett uttröttat ord men det finns inget bättre ord att beskriva denna serie: den är gripande. Mobergs sympati för dessa människors öden lyser igenom så starkt, trots att ingen av dem fanns på riktigt. Obegripligt sorglig, så lätt att känna igen sig, men mitt liv är ändå så annorlunda deras. Karl Oskar är så trygg. "Karl Oskar begrep varken den eviga saligheten i himmelen eller de eviga plågorna i helvetet. Hans förstånd räckte inte till."
När jag läste Jens Liljestrands förord till boken sjönk mina förväntningar dramatiskt.
Jag hade hållit på boken länge och gottat mig åt att få återvända till denna härliga serie.
Men han säljer den inte särskilt bra.
Boken låter skittråkig, rent ut sagt.Det är den inte som tur är.
Att han avslöjar i princip samtliga viktiga händelser i boken i sitt förord irriterade mig, men jag hade inte räknat med det emotionella kapital jag har investerat i den här berättelsen.
Att i förordet läsa att Kristina kommer att insjukna är något helt annat än att “vara med när det händer” i texten, för att ge ett exempel.Det är ju ingen spoiler att Kristina och Karl-Oskar dör, det gör alla människor.
Quite different from the others, but very well done. I really enjoyed how the end was slow, as it was so appropriate. The first book of the series was fast-paced and all over the place, meant to be like youth. This book was slow and steady, often repeating things and meant to represent old age and the end of life. It was beautiful and poignant and touching and something I think I would enjoy again later in my life.
The whole series... A masterpiece.
Kristina sliter med hälsan och får besked av en doktor att hon inte får bli gravid.
Hon förlitar sig hellre på sin Gud och dör efter ett missfall.
Den forna skökan Ulrika som gifte sig med en pastor blev en rik kvinna efter hans bortgång.
Karl-Oskar lever tills han blir 67 år gammal och får se sitt släkte vidarebefodras genom sina barnbarn.
Saknaden efter Kristina är stor och Karl-Oskar försonar sig aldrig mer med den Gud som tog henne från honom.
Mot slutet av livet börjar även Karl-Oskar att besöka sitt ungdoms hemtrakter i Sverige i tankarna.
Nu har jag skrivit så mycket om vad jag tycker om Mobergs serie om utvandrarna och den sista delen gör inget att ändra min åsikt.
Jag skulle säga att en mer driven författare med en tydlig "plot" som den villa genomföra snarare än vilja skildra precis varenda detalj, tanke och blomsort skulle klara av det hela på 5-600 sidor.
Moberg har tveklöst en faibless för kataloger (det hade Strindberg med, fast där slutar likheterna) och listor.Nåja, i den här boken väntar man på att karaktärerna ska dö, och till slut gör de det.
On paper, these novels are quite possibly the complete opposite of every book I have ever loved... yet, I love them. I have read all 4 now in succession and this last one is shaping up to be the best. Good thing I googled "famous Swedish literature" before I traveled to Sweden, or I would have missed these last few months of reading pleasure. I will be sad to see Kristina and Karl Oskar go.
This is the last book in a four-book series that I have greatly enjoyed. Following Karl Oscar and Kristina from Sweden to America circa. 1850 -- and then life in Minnesota -- has deepened my understanding of America's immigrant past. They seem almost like family now.
Betyg: 4,5 / 5Intressant avslutning på en fantastisk romansvit.
Bästa boken i serien! Jag trivdes verkligen i Kristina och Karl-Oskars Amerika. Det fanns två vägskäl i Det sista brevet hem där boken kunde tagit sig upp till en femma. Dels det amerikanska inbördeskriget som kunde fått större plats och sen dels en chans att ta en relation i en annan riktning (Go Ulrika Go!) Nåja, det var fortfarande riktigt gemytlig läsning.
I did not expect this book to be so brutal. It was very brutal compared to the other ones.
As this is book 4 in The Emigrant Novels series, I've been with these characters for a while.
I am sorry to part with them now.This installment seems a bit more reflective than the others - fitting, as our main characters are aging and reflecting on their lives, choices, accomplishments, and legacies.
I found Moberg's style reminiscent of Steinbeck's at times.I was left wondering about a few key characters (whatever happened to Ulrika and her family?), but that also seems fitting.
Do we ever wrap up all our storylines in life?Overall I found this story of an emigrant family to be inspiring, brutal, and moving.
Denna sista del i utvandrarsagan är aningen spretigare till formen än de övriga, men jag tycker att historien håller ända in i mål. Boken har en ganska vemodig stämning, vilket enligt förordet delvis förklaras av Mobergs egna liv och hälsa då den skrevs. Den beskriver bitvis väldigt grymma händelser i utförlig detalj (indianupproret), men framför allt är detta en skildring av Karl-Oskars och Kristinas kärlek, tills döden skiljer dem åt. Min favoritdel förblir del tre då jag var väldigt förtjust i Robert, men sagan får med den här boken ett värdigt slut.
This is the final book in the set, taking Karl Oscar and his family through the Sioux uprising and Civil War, through the death of Kristina in 1862 and on to the end of Karl Oscar's life in 1890.
Karl Oscar Nilsson, Swede, has become Charles O.
Nelson, American citizen.
His children have forgotten their Swedish and turned into Americans.
His grandchildren are mixtures: Swedish-Irish and so on.
Thus in the end it falls to one of his neighbors, forty years after Karl Oscar left Sweden, to write that poignant 'last letter home' to Karl's sister to tell her that he has passed away.
I'm really surprised with this series. Now that I'm done with it, I just might have to favorite it. Moberg did the incredible thing of starting a series and making it get better and better with each book. Though, I still like the third one best. This had a good ending, I think. Kind of confusing about all his children, but good anyway. Finishing it felt complete. Like, yes, that's a great ending for this great series. Thanks Jessica, for lending them to me. :D
Last book of the series. The person who wrote the foreword wrote that Moberg was kind of down with this series, and had regretted ever telling the publishing company there would be four books, so the reading experience was a bit dampened by that. Reading it I noticed it involuntarily, but I still enjoyed reading it. Still don't like the characters that much, though.
The Last Letter Home was a masterfully written conclusion to the Emigrant tetralogy, spiced with major historical events such as the Minnesota Dakota Sioux uprising and the Civil War. I savored the final pages, as Karl Oscar, in his final days, comforted himself with vivid, poetic memories of his childhood in Sweden and courtship with his beloved Kristina.
Äntligen slut.....
This series followed the story of Karl Oskar Nillson, his wife Kristina, and their companions as they face poverty and famine in Ljuder Sweden, make the long journey across the ocean, resettle in Minnesota, and build a life and home in this new country.  This story, which is in many ways like a documentary, offers an incredible glimpse into life of Scandinavian Emigrants who came to America in the mid-1800s. Through this series we see the characters face an aching homesickness that can only be
This series followed the story of Karl Oskar Nillson, his wife Kristina, and their companions as they face poverty and famine in Ljuder Sweden, make the long journey across the ocean, resettle in Minnesota, and build a life and home in this new country.
This story, which is in many ways like a documentary, offers an incredible glimpse into life of Scandinavian Emigrants who came to America in the mid-1800s.
They made an incredible gamble jumping into the unknown –taking their lives and all of generations that would follow them and stepping into a new and uncertain future.
This series depicted a time and way of life that is now gone.
I really enjoyed this book, as an independent work of historical fiction and also as a person from Minnesota of Scandinavian heritage.
This book (and the series) did not sugar coat the realities of life in a starving Sweden, on a ship traveling across the ocean, or in untamed wilderness in Minnesota.
I wish Moberg had given greater acknowledgement to the plight of the Native Americans who were here first.
This series along with the film adaptation made me really want to visit the graves of my great great great grandparents in Norway and Ireland.
Tyckte verkligen om denna serie böcker om svenskarna som utvandrade. Ger 4,5⭐ som ett genomsnitt, vissa delar är lite utdragna men vissa bitar är verkligen 5⭐. Lyssnade vissa delar på ljudböckerna och vissa läste jag. Den sista delen läste jag helt. Ljudboken var väldigt bra, bearbetad och inläst av Per Sjöstrand som gör det väldigt bra. Det har varit väldigt roligt och givande att läsa dessa böcker då jag är intresserad av släktforskning och historia och hur det var för vanliga människor i Sver
Tyckte verkligen om denna serie böcker om svenskarna som utvandrade.
Ger 4,5⭐️ som ett genomsnitt, vissa delar är lite utdragna men vissa bitar är verkligen 5⭐️.
Lyssnade vissa delar på ljudböckerna och vissa läste jag.
Ljudboken var väldigt bra, bearbetad och inläst av Per Sjöstrand som gör det väldigt bra.
Det har varit väldigt roligt och givande att läsa dessa böcker då jag är intresserad av släktforskning och historia och hur det var för vanliga människor i Sverige vid denna tid.
Så imponerande av alla de människor som utvandrade till Amerika utan att kunna veta vad som väntades dem.
This last book in the series was my least favorite, simply because the narrative felt somewhat bloated just to make the fourth book. But I'm still glad to have read the series and wrapped up the story of Karl Oskar and Kristina immigration to Minnesota. The author did phenomenal work getting the story as authentic as possible and it worked for me. Anyone interested in immigration during the 1850s from Europe to America would benefit from reading this book. Trying to track down the movie made from the first two books now to expand my appreciation of this series.
Sista delen i Utvandrarserien. Det är vemodigt att ta avsked. Karaktärerna är fortsatt starka och berättelsen intressant. Mycket om inbördeskriget och om indianernas situation. Stundvis oerhört sorglig men mycket bra.LB
This was the fourth book in this saga about Swedish immigrants to North America. I thoroughly enjoyed every one of these books. These books were hard to find but I found them via the interlibrary loan.
After reading the first three books, I immediately picked up Book #4. It was the shortest of the four, and I read it in less than 24 hours. What a wonderful series. I highly recommend it for all those who enjoy stories of the early pioneers who settled North America
I loved all four of the "Emigrant" series books. Because all of my ancestors emigrated from Sweden to Vasa and Red Wing, MN between 1860 and 1900, I felt such a close connection, like I was reading about my own family and ancestors.
Thoroughly enjoyed this series.
Finska rycket Kal-Oska, förhelvete.
