https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33917107-on-tyranny
Some people say this book should be on your person at all times. It's so worth reading and provokes great conversation.
Even though the flow of (mis)information is part of the root of the new fascist success in the world, it can also be used by people to gently bring more nuance and knowledge into the debate:“Since in the age of the internet we are all publishers, each of us bears some private responsibility for the public’s sense of truth.”I think that is of massive importance.
I can imagine reading it with teenage students as a point of departure for overarching discussions, but also to read it privately as a simple reminder of what a powerless individual can do to intellectually survive in an increasingly poisoned political atmosphere.A good, solid recommendation!
As a Professor of History at Yale University, Professor Snyder uses his expertise to lay out the importance of learning from the mistakes made throughout history, and to warn against a cavalier attitude towards the strength of our own democracy.
The book teaches that democracies can fail, and how they fail, and the lessons we should learn from those failures.
I believe the author offers sound advice, no matter which side of the political debate you are on.
The book is clearly addressed at the American people, but anyone anywhere with any sense of freedom and security for themselves and for their loved ones now or in the future must read it too.
The book has a sense of urgency which can hardly be ignored and which I actually didn’t expect from a historian.This is not a scientific work.
Whoever, after reading the book, does not yet understand what hour the clock of the world has struck, can not be helped.
A buffoon, or a despot-in-training?I can’t give you a definitive answer, but I am sure of one thing: for those worried about totalitarianism in the good ole USA, historian Timothy Snyder’s little book On Tyrrany is an excellent guide to what to do and what to watch out for.Snyder is an excellent source for such advice, for his major works are Bloodlands: Europe between Hitler and Stalin and Black Earth: The Holocaust as History and Warning.
Thus he spent a good portion of his academic career cataloging the increments that lead to tyranny and the harbingers that can alert us to its coming.This pocket-sized 125 page book consists of twenty “lessons” Timothy Snyder believes are helpful both for observing and for preserving our republic, and also keeping democracy alive within it.
Probably the most important book you could read this year. Please read it, then give your copy to someone else to read.
This is an incredible worth reading quick read -it's fricken sad it had to be written....Given out current political situation- what stands out for me after reading this is....If we survive as a democracy it will be going against history!A small tidbit of interest that caught my eye in this book - was the section about politicians and television-- It was a reality wake up remember of how we have taken the collective trance to be normal.
Twenty - very common sense lessons are in this small book - it's only $3.99 on Kindle!Highly worth readers time to read it!!!
Likewise, we saw the government centralize and make a grab for a substantial part of the economy with that mis-named Affordable Health Care Act, that carried with the unprecedented intrusion into personal life and personal decision-making by requiring that Americans divert upwards of 20% of their income into the purchase of health insurance to the enrichment of insurance companies.Although any of this could be described quite easily as "fascist", we heard nothing from Snyder.Likewise, the last eight years has seen an unprecedented normalization of hostility to free-speech, as colleges have instituted speech codes and rules against triggering and have assaulted and intimidated people who didn't adhere to the progressive line.But, again, nothing from Snyder.During the last presidential campaign we saw videos of the loser's side attacking, hitting, punching throwing things at, and assaulting those on the president's side.
If the author really believes that Trump is Hitler and that Americans have had our last free election, then much of his advice is dangerously counterproductive.
So this is not a differentiating factor between Trump/Hitler and the alternatives.-In the first chapter he talks about the Milgram experiments.
This brings up a question that struck me many times while reading "On Tyranny": what is the audience for this pamphlet?-Ch. 10/11 "Believe in truth, and Investigate" bugged me.
You don't need to believe in truth.
The truth is true whether you believe in it or not.
We need to be careful in reading, combing it over until our questions are clarified, calling them out and talking with others about them if not.There is no reason for me to deny I agree with Snyder’s take on the present administration and the henchmen that carry out the damaging policies dreamed up by our thoughtless, fearful leader.
It was far more than Hitler had thought.” Snyder goes on to say that “anticipatory obedience means adapting instinctively, without reflection.” Yes, I agree that the eagerness to be agreeable can make fools of us.
They had in mind the usurpation of power by a single individual or group, or the circumvention of law by rulers for their own benefit.”“Post-truth is pre-fascism: “Re: #10: Believe in truth.
In the European context, several democracies that emerged after the World Wars I and II soon collapsed when a single party assumed power—usually by means of some combination of an election, emergency powers, and a coup d’état.”READ and educate yourself.
I get that, but in every fascist state, a majority of thinking people have not believed the government was doing what it was doing.
He's also very concerned about what's happening in the United States.Thus he gave this book a subtitle: Twenty Lessons from the Twentieth CenturyHere's the last bit from Snyder's Preface:Fascists rejected reason in the name of will, denying objective truth in favor of a glorious myth articulated by leaders who claimed to give voice to the people.
Be a Patriot.Set a good example of what America means for the generations to come.
This is a marvelous little book about how to avoid allowing one's homeland to sink into tyranny.
The book really does contain twenty short lessons, practical ways to recognize tyranny and ways to fight it.
This book was written after Donald Trump was elected president.
Snyder is an expert on the Holocaust, and he shows how the administration's policies are increasingly on a parallel course to that of the early Nazi regime.Tyrannies have often begun with lawful elections.
But, with our knowledge of the rise of fascism, we should be better prepared to prevent its rise in the future.What are some of Snyder's lessons?
As I write this today, 24 March 2018, I saw the face of our future president in Emma Gonzalez as she stood silent, focused, determined, at a march made by young people to demand their lives be protected from ammosexual assholes.
I am hopeful that Emma Gonzalez will be, by her very adamantine sense of self and her charismatic gravitas, the voice that alerts her compatriots to Author Snyder's clarion call to clarity:The politics of inevitability is a self-induced intellectual coma.The most unbelievably high stakes are at risk in the November 2018 elections.
A book like this can help change that.
No matter your politics, fascism and authoritarianism arise when we're looking another way, distracted, numb to history.
The only way to get out in front of and stop a tyrant is to know what we're looking for.
A book like this can save our country and unite us toward a common goal of change, of striving for democracy, and protect us from the dangers of our own rotten impulses.
If you only read one book in 2018 (and boy, I hope that's not the case), make it this one.
On Tyranny: Twenty Lessons from the Twentieth Century by Timothy Snyder is a masterpiece of what is happening now and this was written before the orange tornado. This book was based on past history and what to expect from tyranny...and boy does it match today perfect. This is one book each and every American needs to read. It is a short but power in its message. Wonderful!
Timely read for what is facing the free world in 2017. A Book to show how to be different, read books, find out the truth and don't be a blind follower, because between democracy and tyranny a thin blue line and many are tempted to cross it. Be smart Be a rebel
Well, then the Traumatic-Event of November happened, and I went into a coma of sorts – specifically, of a personal sort – I stopped being a person, more or less, with interests outside of the creeping fascism in the United States.
Into a life in which it now doesn’t even seem terribly odd that the President of the United States of America is defending white supremacists (see: Charlottesville) and equating their tactics to some on the left who would fight fascism.And that – the normalization of the previously abnormal in political life- was exactly the topic of Sam Harris’ interview with Timothy Snyder on his podcast when I came across it this past summer.
Now that I've read it, I definitely will buy it and stick copies in family Christmas stockings--I believe it is THAT important for everyone to read.
Timothy Snyder is a history teacher at Yale, who has written books on the Nazis and the Holocaust.
In this small book with a mighty focus, he has put together twenty lessons on tyranny based on observations of politics and history that are very timely today.
He is following his own advice and speaking out while he still can.Update: This author has just published a new book (April, 2018) that may be a must-read: The Road to Unfreedom: Russia, Europe, America.
to a friend or a colleague or a family member.If the book has a simple thesis, it could be anything from: No, it's not a dream, and when you wake up, things won't be better.
If you're the kind of person who scoffs at a serious, thoughtful, eye-opening critique of the current state of affairs, the odds are low you'll read this book, let alone be open to its message.
As one of my colleagues said: "I appreciate how well [the author] simplified years of learning to make it widely available."The book was worth writing, and it's definitely worth reading.

This book is like the Tuesdays with Morrie version of political activism.
Its message boils down to this: Americans are not special; if we don't actively defend our democracy, we can fall into the same trap of authoritarianism that ensnared 20th century Europe (because apparently the lessons we can learn from the 20th century don't include the likes of Pinochet, Castro or the Khmer Rouge).
It's not that there aren't lessons to be learned there (and I highly recommend Andrew Nagorski's Hitlerland for anyone interested), but, unfortunately, that well has been a bit poisoned from rampant overuse.
Once we knew, though, that everyone in the class should get a valentine card (if anyone did)And everyone should be invited to the birthday party--Black, Muslim, the religious in all their denominations;Atheists; agnostics;The Jew who reads the wrong Israeli newspapers;Even the white guy,The rich one who seduced, using his power,(For millennia that's the way it worked).The rich and poor have this in common:The LORD is the maker of them all.With 'speaking truth to power' turned against our fellow,The authoritarian need not divide and conquer,Since we are dividing ourselvesWith our social media of derisionAnd our politics of denunciation.
Be brave!Knit up the raveled social fabric.Read and study and peruse the news But don't stay home alone too long;Rub shoulders with Others.
Timothy Snyder offers 20 concrete actions to take that can resist tyrannical behavior.
Each moment in history is directly connected to current events – there’s no mistaking the relevance.For me, one key takeaway was Snyder’s recommendation to get out from behind our computers and make human connections.
He also reminds his readers that totalitarian regimes use personal information against their citizens.
I found it interesting that Snyder never once uses the current U.S. president’s name.
Once we read it, taking action is the next and more critical step.Originally published at TheBibliophage.com.
It is not patriotic to dodge the draft and to mock war heroes and their families.
It is not patriotic to avoid paying taxes when American working families do pay.It is not patriotic to admire foreign dictators.
Democracy failed in Europe in the 20s, 30's, and 40's, and it is failing in many parts of the world today.
It is that history and experience that reveals to us the range of our possible futures.We have allowed ourselves to accept the politics of inevitability, the sense that history could move in only one direction: toward liberal democracy.I am consumed by the feeling that the institutions, rhetoric, time itself is out of joint.
چقدر به نظرم لازمه هممون این کتاب رو نه یک بار که هر از گاهی دوباره بخونیم.«شهامت به معنای فقدان ترس،یا اندوه،نیست.بلکه به معنای شناخت سریع مدیریت وحشت و مقاومت در برابر آن است،از همان لحظه ی وقوع حمله،که این کار سخت تر از هر زمان دیگری به نظر میرسد.«
روزهاچشم به اسمارتفونهایمان دوخته بودیم که تصاویر تظاهرات سراسری مردم ایران را نشان میداد؛ تصاویر شعارها، حمله به فرمانداری و بانک و درگیری خیابانی و نیز تصاویر رعب و وحشت مردم از گارد ویژه، کتک خوردن دانشجوها، تیراندازیها و کشتهشدنها: خیزشی که همه را غافلگیر کرد. هیچکس تصور نمیکرد در بین اقشار عمدتاً فقیر جامعه، چنین پتانسیلی از خشم فروخورده و چنین احساسی از نادیده گرفتهشدن توسط حکومت، وجود داشته باشد و اینطور فوران کند. و همه دیدیم و شنیدیم که سردمداران حکومت چگونه پاسخ کسانی را که چیزی برای ا
اسنایدر این تلقی را که دورۀ حکومت‌های مستبد و سرکوبگر قرن بیستم از قبیل کمونیسم شوروی و چکسلواکی یا آلمان نازی یا ایتالیای فاشیست گذشته است سراسر غلط می‌داند و معتقد است اگر حواسمان نباشد ممکن است با انتخاب‌های خود و با اعمالی که پیامد آن‌ها برایمان روشن نیست، بدون اینکه بدانیم فاشیسم یا ناسیونالیسم افراطی را باز هم تجربه کنیم.اسنایدر می‌گوید هیچ‌وقت هیتلر بدون حمایت آگاهانۀ مردمی و بدون همکاری قشر عظیمی از دیوان‌سالاران و نیروهای نظامی که داوطلبانه با حزب نازی همکاری کردند، نمی‌توانست قدرت را در دست بگیرد؛ پس باید آگاه باشیم، حوادث اطراف خود را رصد کنیم و مسئولانه به‌دنبال صحت‌وسقم اخبار باشیم، داوطلبانه تن به خواسته‌های حاکمان مستبد و تمامیت‌خواه ندهیم و درنهایت بدانیم که مسئول رفتار خود و انتخاب های خود هستیم.
How 'bout I tell you right now that if you think Trump is doing a bang up job, that if those dingbats in the legislative and judicial branches would just toe the line, our fine leader would have America back on its feet and “Great Again” in no time flat, you are not going to like this book.
And Timothy Snyder's book, which outlines factors involved in the rise of authoritarian governments in the 20th century, does not allay any of those concerns.
Actually, while Snyder references the U.S. president, this might be of interest to the citizens of any modern representative democracy who suspect that their leaders are overfond of power, and who may be tempted to test their claims that “I alone can fix it!”  (hide spoiler)]
What a wonderful collection of absurd conclusions and utter hippocratic left wing garbage!I’m not surprised so many liberals are clamoring, “You Must Read this Before it’s TOO Late!” Too late for what?
The country being turned around and law and order restored on the streets?
And, the Communists, along with other political parties were attempting to fill the vacuum caused by the Versailles Treaty.
You want to talk about a militant, deplorable, lawless, corrupt organization that enforced the Jim Crow laws, you have no farther to look than at the DNC.
But perhaps no book published in 2017 will pack so much importance into so little space.Snyder is careful not to overstate the case.
But he is arguing that Americans should be learning the lessons from when fascism, Nazism and Stalinism overwhelmed previously democratic regimes in the 1930s and '40s, so that the troubling parallels evinced by Trump and his administration over the past year do not advance further down that road.
