https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/849866.Mathematics_and_the_Imagination
i picked up this book in olde city, philadelphia for $5. it is a hardback with aleph naught on the front: denotes cardinality. the copyright is 1940, which is nice to have.... on the inside cover, a man named George wrote with a pencil to his friend: "There's no royal road to geometry--" Euclid. It's wonderful to think that in 1940, this book was in existence.... and stayed in the same city for over 60 years.
As noted, the actual book is in great shape.) I’m not going to belabor my mediocre, lukewarm review but just wanted to mention two things Kasner got dead wrong:1) In the second Chapter, Kasner estimates the “total possible number of moves in a game of chess” as 10^10^50.
This figure is way off no matter what he was trying to express, which is not at all clear from his word choices.What it looks like he is saying, based on the actual words he uses, is the highest number of individual moves that could be played in a single game.
Pueden leerse fragmentos aquí:http://books.google.es/books?id=zdBHM...y aquí:http://www.libraria.com.mx/fragmento/...
Colección de curiosidades matemáticas, de fácil lectura y absolutamente dirigido a personas que no están familiarizados con las matemáticas o alguna ingeniería.
We are in 1940, Kasner and Newman are compiling strange things you can see using mathematics (i.e. using a mathescope). If "imagination" triggered your curiosity, this book is far better than its title. Let us define "far" as one googleplex, which is enormous but finite. One googleplex of what? Up to you. Say fish steaks or kangaroos. It is just a matter of scale, you got infinity within 0 and 1. As you can see, this book may drive you mad.... A hell of a lot of wit and ingenuity within.
I haven't finished the book -- and I have the 1971 paperback edition with no ISBN, so that's an issue -- but what I read was extremely enjoyable.
It is quite a good book for getting introduction of many branches of maths like Non-Euclidean geometry,Topology,puzzles etc
Es un libro escrito con un lenguaje muy accesible que introduce al lector al mundo de las matemáticas desde una óptica muy diferente a la tradicional utilizada en escuelas y colegios. Abarca conceptos de infinito, números trascendentales, geometría euclidiana, álgebra, juegos con matemáticas, espacios multidimencionales, geometrías no euclidianas, probabilidades, cálculo, y más. El libro no pretende ser exaustivo, si no que más bien es una introducción a las muchas ramas de las matemáticas. Totalmente recomendado para las personas que disfrutan las matemáticas pero no se han acercado a ellas formalmente.
Even non-mathematicians can enjoy this book. The authors show not only how mathematics pervades our world and universe, but also our everyday experiences. Inclusion of historical characters and events bring life to this excellent work, often with humor and intriguing consequences.Certainly this book fueled my imagination with the beauty of mathematics, and surprised me with all the many diverse applications in which mankind has found this topic beneficial and even necessary.
wholly readable, inspirational, and enjoyable. The 4th dimension is explained in an easy to enjoy way. This book can be read at leisure in a few days as it has little information to verify or explore. The author encourages you to continue reading mathematics.
I only read an excerpt of this, but it was a great excerpt (New Names for Old). It was an interesting (if slightly dumbed down) take on the difference between mathematical language and colloquial langauge, as well as what we can do to make sure we don't get in a muddle.
Really good book but not exactly a quick read. It does a good job of putting enough detail without bogging the reader down with long proofs, huge numbers, confusing symbols or elaborate explanations when it refers to high level math and was a great book for anybody who is interested in math.
la mia recensione: http://xmau.com/notiziole/archives/00...
The authors explain mathematics in 1940 terms in such detail that it boggles the mind, but they do it with a wonderful touch of humor.
This book has one of the most simple explanations of Calculus anywhere. And it's a fun book to read.
Never quite got into it.
510 K1926 2001
ممتع ومثري
