https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84544.The_Firebrand
I gave this book five stars because I absolutely adore it and have read it 8329432423 times, but I'm not sure it's actually that good.
All I know is that as a classical history nut who spent all her college years (and two post-grad years) studying ancient history, i go all heart-eyes for this book.
it's the Trojan War told through the eyes of the women, and i love it because my favorite characters have always been the women -- Kassandra, Andromache, Helen, Klytemnestra.
I love every single word of it, and I'll probably read it 8329432423 more times.
Também é dada como louca pelas visões que tem e que sempre preveem a morte e a derrota dos Troianos.Até aqui tudo bem, vai ao encontro de outras narrativas da lenda.
A história vai-se desenrolando sempre em paralelo com o avanço da guerra, mas a autora alterou, eliminou e acrescentou muita coisa.
Algumas delas, verdadeiros clássicos da lenda, como o episódio do cavalo, aqui apresentado de outra forma e com um remate desigual.Todavia, ao contrário das obras mais conhecidas sobre a guerra de Troia, deu realce às mulheres e ao poder feminino.
Spesso, quando cercano di scongiurare il destino, gli uomini lo avvicinano. La scrittura della Bradley è sempre affascinante e coinvolgente. In questo libro, mitologia e caratteristiche proprie della narrazione dell’autrice (protagonista femminile, Dea Madre, mondo maschilista) si mischiano, fornendo un’altra visione della Guerra di Troia. Questo è il quarto libro che leggo dalla penna di MZB e, devo ammetterlo, mi è un po’ pesato: soprattutto nella prima parte, ho faticano ad andare avanti nel
Ha dato la voce a moltissimi personaggi “minori”, come Cassandra, Elena (sembra strano, ma raramente la si sente parlare nel poema vero, sono sempre gli uomini a fare i discorsi), Ecuba, la regina delle Amazzoni, Andromaca, ma anche personaggi maschili non combattenti, come Priamo o Crise.
Una bella lettura, ma che sarebbe potuta andare ancora meglio: giusto qualche scelta narrativa non mi ha entusiasmato.*recensione da terminare, forse, quando avrò radunato i pensieri sparsi - questo libro è stato un’avventura come tutti gli altri della Bradley che ho letto*Libro letto per la OWLs readathon 🦉, per la Challenge di Divinazione, che consiste nel leggere un libro con una profezia o più.
But what lies for her beyond the destruction of all she holds dear, and the death of most of her loved ones, may be even worse than death itself.I loved this novel when I first read it, and on subsequent readings found it still held me fascinated by the amount of research Bradley had worked into the well-known story as related by Homer in the Iliad and other, later, classical tales that expounded on the legend.
First, I loved Marion Zimmer Bradley's "The Mists of Avalon," and second, I love the legend of the Trojan War and have read numerous other books on the subject and Cassandra has always been an intriguing character for me.
I found myself willing myself to read, just for the sake of finishing it rather than out of interest.The few characters I did love,Penthesilea and Andromache, were not seen often enough for my taste in the 600 pages of the novel, and the characters I found trying were there too much.I liked Kassandra well enough, but at certain times she really vexed me.
Quem me conhece sabe que As Brumas de Avalon são uns dos meus livros preferidos e tinha bastante curiosidade em saber como Marion Zimmer Bradley tinha recriado a história de Tróia através de Cassandra.
Assim, aproveitei comprar o livro na Hora H.Em Presságio de Fogo, a história vai-se desenrolando através de Cassandra, uma princesa troiana com o dom da profecia, mas apesar das suas visões, os que a rodeiam não acreditam no seu dom.A história começa com o nascimento de Cassandra e Páris, gémeos, sendo separados, acredita-se que gémeos dão má sorte.
This novel, at just over 600 pages, tells the story of the Trojan War from the perspective of Kassandra the Prophetess, one of the daughters of Priam and Hecuba, the king and queen of Troy.
I have to say that I was quite intrigued with Zimmer Bradley's character development of the great Achaean warrior, Akilles, and the portrayal of his "rage", which is the subject of Homer's epic poem, The Iliad.
Zimmer Bradley's portrayal of Kassandra in telling this story is compelling and thought-provoking.
I like how she was able to have fantasy elements, such as the Gods being real with the ability to take over a person's body when they want to directly influence events and Kassandra's true visions, yet she made some other aspects of the mythology more grounded in reality.
Like many of Bradley's novels, this one had a feminist take on events.
The story did drag a little in the middle for me, knowing the story and the fate of Troy, I began to tire of reading about the siege and was ready for the horse to appear.
I read this some years after The Mists of Avalon.
Probably my favourite part of the book, was the time Kassandra spends at Queen Imandra's court when she is inducted into the cult of "Serpant Mother", which I assumed was Hecate, the Goddess of the witches, although Bradley never specifically mentions Hecate's name.
My first introduction to the Greek Myths, (or ancient Hellenic beliefs), was through the Mythic Tarot deck which had been a favourite for years.
I did find the Prophetess, Kassandra's constant mental convulsions a little vexing at times.

This was very entertaining. I enjoyed seeing the siege of Troy from the other side, inside the walls and from a woman's point of view. But the way Achilles was portrayed was a travesty I felt. This is like a Danielle Steele type of take on the Ilad. Every character served its purpose but the grandeur I craved from reading Renault or Miller wasn't at the rendez vous.Over all, original in its perspective but definitely not a classic for me!
Tão lindoo!! :'( *tears*Comentário decente aparecerá futuramente!
While this isn't terrible, both of those books were more successful than this one.In the frame to this story, an aged Kassandra insists that a bard is telling the story of the fall of Troy is all wrong--in the previous generation, women had ruled cities and lived in harmony with the Goddess and everything was hugs and puppies until men totally screwed everything up.
Kassandra insists that she can be fulfilled without a man or a child...and yet she ends up with a lover and a kid and it makes her so very fulfilled.
Antes de leerme esta obra me leí Las Nieblas De Avalon y me encantó.
Así llegué a Cassandra y me gustó incluso más.
Ahora bien, no os esperéis una historia al uso sobre la Caída de Troya.
La autora se basa en ello sólo para recrear un mundo totalmente diferente.Marion Zimmer es una autora feminista empeñada en devolver a la mujer el poder que antiguamente tuvo (según ella, a mí no me miréis!) y lo demuestra en todas sus obras con fuertes protagonistas femeninas y con giros que nada tienen que ver con las historias más “machistas” que todos conocemos sobre estos mismos acontecimientos.
Marion Zimmer Bradley ripercorre, prendendosi diverse licenze poetiche, la storia di Cassandra e della città di Troia fino alla sua distruzione, e le sorti della Sacerdotessa in seguito alla sua partenza per Micene come concubina di Agamennone.La Torcia prende, forse un po’ forzatamente ma in ogni caso con risultati meravigliosi, i temi del ciclo di Avalon e li amalgama con miti greci ormai così conosciuti da essere quasi abusati.Lo scontro tra le potenze maschili per ottenere la preponderanza su quelle femminili viene trasportato nell’Antica Grecia, patria del culto della Dea e della sovranità indiscussa del matriarcato fino al momento in cui gli uomini, introducendo nuovi déi e nuove istituzioni, non ottengono il dominio delle donne e delle loro terre.
The story is kinda interesting (I sure do want to know the ending) and there are some positive things to the characters building, namely that none of the women were overly mean to each other, and didn't degrade each other.
2. I discussed with a friend and she had the best way to describe my beef with this book: the characters are like cardboard cut-outs.
If Kassandra changed her mind about whether or not he was a good man one more time, I might have tore this book apart.
She meets a band of noble while hiding from the perverted guy.The take her in believing she is a teenage boy and she hits it off with one of them.
He cuddles her and tells her how much he likes her.Of course she decides to reveal herself to him and shows her non-boyish body (read:boobs)He becomes disgusted of her and the fact that she isnt a 14 year old boy.
I think he would have been old enough to be married in this state legally, so I figured what he did sexually was his own business" They stayed together for 15 year after that until they separated...because of problems in bed.
I'm always up for an alternate point of view story, and Cassandra/Kassandra is a character from the story of the Trojan War who has the potential to be very interesting - a prophetess whose words are believed by no one.
In addition, Kassandra spends most of the story doing very dull things, all while moaning about the doomed city of Troy and how she wishes she could flee, but she can't because it's her fate to remain.
The most interesting part of her story, the adventures she experiences after the sacking of Troy, is glossed over in the Epilogue.
Interesting re-telling of the fall of Troy from the point of view of Kassandra - a priestess and princess of Troy.The book makes a massive amount of the fact that many of the main characters are female.
There are a lot of absolute statements made, and portrayal of extremes, without much consideration.There is also some exploration of the role of god(s) and their relationship to people, but it's again not very nuanced, a bit heavy-handed, and suffers from the same kind of "extreme-ism" as the discussion of women's issues.The plot is OK.
The ending is weak.There is a bit too much tell vs show for my liking.
This book started with an interesting premise, weaving in the myths of greece in a tale of real lives, but soemthing wasn't working for me.
The main character, and all the charachters, actually, are not logical, in that the author makes them do things and have reactions that aren't true to their characters, just to move the story along.
Also the book was written in third person from the point of view of Kassandra, but there were a number of times when the point of view shifted and it was obvious that it wasn't the authors intention to have multiple points of view.
Poor writing and an annoying and unreliable main character made this story a slog to get through.
Sono incappata nella trama di questo libro per caso, e ho pensato "perché no?".
Ora posso tranquillamente dire "ma anche no!".
Capisco l'intento dell'autrice di dar rilievo alle figure femminili in una cornice come quella dell'Iliade (in cui hanno più intelletto e libertà i cavalli), ma il risultato è per me disastroso.
Detto questo, se devo valutare il libro come una cosa a se stante (visto che ognuno è libero di reinterpretare i miti come meglio crede), posso dire di averlo trovato troppo lento per i miei gusti.
Non succede nulla di rilievo fino a pagina 300.
Lo stile non mi ha emozionato, e non mi invogliava a sfogliare pagina per scoprire cosa sarebbe accaduto.

Irritatingly inaccurate, not that we know the truth of the story. Hecuba and ex-Amazon? Kassandra kills Achilles thanks to her training as an Amazon? I don't understand the attraction to the person who recommended it and am thoroughly unimpressed with the writing of an author of whom several of my friends are fans.
Good book, very entertaining and also teaches about the myths involving the war on Troy.
Ogni possibile conflitto sviluppatosi nel corso del romanzo (il rapporto tra Cassandra e la sua famiglia, fra lei e Crise, il suo desiderio frustrato di diventare un'amazzone, l'inimicizia tra Paride ed Ettore, la situazione conflittuale fra Priamo ed Odisseo, e mille altri) viene sempre "disinnescato".Sì, Cassandra è la più emarginata della sua famiglia, ma in fondo loro vogliono bene a lei, e lei a loro...Sì, Crise ha tentato di violentarla, e da allora la tampina di continuo, ma in fondo lei non gli augura nulla di male...Sì, Cassandra vorrebbe tanto sfuggire alle regole della società patriarcale e diventare un'amazzone, ma visto che non si può, pazienza, limitiamoci a lamentarci di tanto in tanto...Sì, Ettore e Paride non si sopportano, ma in fondo combattiamo tutti per Troia e "volemose bene"...Sì, Priamo ed Odisseo sono in rapporti amichevoli prima della guerra, ma quando il secondo finisce a combattere a fianco degli achei, nessuno gliene vuole...Ma "di per sul serio", Marion?Queste meccaniche senza senso nelle relazioni tra i personaggi sono presto spiegate: si tratta di un branco di bipolari.Non c'è altra giustificazione plausibile.
I did enjoy this read , but at the same time I feel the story was a it dry in it's telling.
3.5
the prose is well-crafted but falls short of inspiring - irritatingly, portrays kassandra as a lesbian for the first half of the book then places her in an affair with aeneas - provides an interesting and engaging spin on the illiad yet all but ignores the aeneid - nevertheless prompts critical thought regarding the role of women in a mythos created of, by, and for men
Foi o que eu fiz quando o meu professor de Religião e Mitologia Grega nos pediu para fazer um trabalho sobre a recepção de um mito numa forma de cultura e me propôs tratar da Guerra de Tróia na perspectiva deste livro.
O problema é que mesmo assim não consegui deixar de ser uma leitora que já estudou este assunto de todas as perspectivas e foi ensinada a analisar esta história de uma forma crítica e objectiva.
Também a forma como nos conta esta história tão conhecida é bela, de uma visão, mais uma vez única, e que vale a pena ser lida.
E' fatto noto e risaputo che i Greci praticassero una religione politeista, quella degli dei dell'Olimpo; perciò ficcarci la Dea anche qui era un'impresa piuttosto dura.Marion Zimmer Bradley l'ha fatto.
Per restare in tema di poemi epici: è come se io facessi una riscrittura dell' "Epopea di Gilgamesh" (il primo poema in assoluto, risalente ai sumeri) e, al momento di descrivere la lotta dell'eroe con un toro celeste "regalato" dalla dea della luna Ishtar, dicessi che Gilgamesh risolve il problema con un robottone alto diciotto metri.
Non credo che leggerò più libri di Marion Zimmer Bradley, perché non riuscirò ad essere così benevola.
