https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831382.The_Diary_of_Vaslav_Nijinsky
[ I am full of life, and therefore I suffer  ]is a quote out of this book, but so is[ I am no turkey with feathers of steel.
I find it easy to make fun of some of these lines in Nijinskys diary, but I'm actually overwhelmed with the sheer genius of this man.
I had heard of Nijinsky long before I knew he suffered from schizophrenia because as a young girl taking ballet classes, my teacher would be so happy about being able to teach some boys and would call them “my little Nijinskys”.
Basically, it's several hundred pages of this type of thing:"I am the artist who loves shapes and all kinds of beauty.
I love beauty because I feel it and therefore understand it.
I feel love for beauty.
I like my wife's nose because it has feeling."I fully expected to get a little ways into the book and have to skim the rest, but I have to say, once I adjusted to the general ebb and flow of Nijinsky's mental associations it became a fascinating read, especially when he'll wander, almost accidentally, into musings of his dancing career and the people associated with it (Diaghilev, Nijinska, his various patrons, etc).
In the first twenty years of the 20th century he rose to become the world's greatest dancer.
Then at the age of 29, he came crashing down into a world of insanity.Diagnosed with schizophrenia, Nijinsky spent the last thirty years of his life in and out of insane asylums.In 1919 Nijinsky kept a diary.
This edition by Joan Acocella is unexpurgated and quite wild.It is not easy to read because Nijinsky rambles all over the place.
Dansta Tanrı'nın eli diye bir şey olsaydı bunun muhatabı olacak Nijinsky'nin günlüğü. Van Gogh gibi deli olmadığını, sadece "farklı" olduğunu anlatma çabası içindeki satırlar, aynı zamanda sanat dünyasının acımasızlığını, adaletsizliğini ve çarpık düzenini de yansıtıyor. Bir hümanist ve düşüncede anarşist olan Nijinsky'nin dünyanı anlama çabasına da tanıklık etme şansı buluyoruz.
However, he describes on almost every page how God talks to him and tells him to do or don't do certain things.
He wants to comfort his wife, but God tells him not to.
He sees blood in the snow, of which he later realizes that it is not actually there.Still, there also seem to be pages of clear thinking, not bothered to much by schizophrenia, where he describes things of his personal and professional life.Putting aside all of the psychosis and the personal parts, what remains is a sort of manifesto of love.
total freak. you get the feeling the term "free spirit" was coined specifically for him. i had no idea, what a creative force he was. he was a dancer in a truly golden age, when dancers were famous, and real artists. amazing life story.
This extremely moving diary was written as Nijinsky struggled with symptoms of schizophrenia in the spring of 1919.
Throughout the text Nijinsky struggles with the horrors of the First World War, his acrimonious relationship with his ex-lover Diaghilev [who had spitefully fired him from Ballets Russes after Nijinsky married a Hungarian woman on a South American tour], his revulsion at eating meat, his deteriorating marriage, and the delusions that increasingly clouded his thoughts.
It's heartbreaking for the reader to feel Nijinsky's mind fragmenting even as he proclaims his love for humanity and desire to atone for past failings.
At the same time, there are passages of piercing lucidity where he discusses his career, dance, art, and his feelings about life and death.
It made me feel sad as it came across to me that he didn't really know what either really meant and didn't use them in proper context or he would contradict himself by saying he loved someone but then say he didn't.
I'm quite fascinated by Nijinsky and just recently started really learning about him but one common thread seems to be that people thought he was stupid, and I found it to be quite the opposite.
From the footnotes on some of the pages it was obvious that he misused words or used different terms and languages.
This book is literally the diary of one of the greatest ballet legends as he takes a nose-dive into insanity.
This is definitely not a family-friendly book.
It's kind of hard to read because his thought process is so random, and it's very candid and sometimes kind of gross.
It's kind of a love it or hate it book.
Buried in the randomness there are actually some pretty brilliant insights.
I read it for a psychology class presentation on Schizophrenia, and pulled from the text to exemplify certain trademark thought processes in people with Schizophrenia.
He is simply beautiful in every way.
He makes me sad and he makes me happy.
One of the most beautiful things one can read is a pure genuine, bare and bold person's diary.
Why this is not a full five stars rating is for no other reason that it simply doesn't feel like a book, or something period, to hail.
So to me, there is not really a significant difference between five and four stars, I love books that I've rated four and five just as much, but in different ways obviously.
Beautiful, genuine, pure, as it should be.
This diary captures Nijisnky’s descent into madness over the course of one month, and between Nijinsky’s unfortunate love of repetition and his insistence that he is God, much of it reads like a compendium of Gertrude Stein’s “what-would-i-say” posts (out of context, hilarious, in context, devastating).
This book represents to me the dangers of fame when dealing with one’s humanity, and the further dangers of repressing one’s homosexual tendencies through marriage.
Either way, this book hit me in a place I didn’t realize I had, and I almost wish I hadn’t read it because it makes me hesitant about the road ahead, as both an artist, a gay man, and a human being.
It's unfortunate that the other version, published by the University of California Press, I believe, is not listed here (edit: it is listed here!
I merely had to change editions (https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1...)).It is out-of-print, but secondhand copies are widely available, and it is by far superior, in my opinion, to this newer release.The version I'm mentioning is translated and edited by Nijinsky's wife, Romola, and just seems far more delicate, and beautiful.
I hate the need to "rate" books, but my rating is for the University of California Press version, as it is the only of the two I fully read, and is by far my favorite.
We meet a man who is transitioning to another world, going on about how is is in god, is god or has to do what god tells him.
Who speaks a lot about dead, that is terrifying him, or is not.
Nijinksi is speaking about money for which he doesn't care most of the times but shows dozens of reasons to have it.
On the other hand we meet a man for the senses.
Loving and caring, searching for connections with temporally clear visions on how people act.So, what I learned from this book is to look in a more open way to people.
This is a heart breaking insight into the few weeks of Vaslav Nijinsky's life, just before he succumbed to a mental breakdown. His brilliance is evident, but so is his loneliness and fear. A moving testimony by one of the greatest artists of our times.
Repetitive, pedantic, contradictory, ecstatic. I'm overwhelmed with love for these simplistic rants - amazing, cyclical arrogance. Apparently, all you have to do is chant "god", "meat", "heart", and "blood", and I am won.
Een moeilijk te lezen boek, dagboek. Zijn gedachten gaan van links naar rechts en via een omweg weer terug. Toch is het fascinerend om te lezen hoe zijn gedachten veranderen naarmate hij zieker wordt.
Makes sense to me
It’s hard to review diaries of someone suspected to have schizophrenia. I think it has two valuable aspects - one glimpses of recollections of his youth and references to ballet Russe, Krasavina and Dyagilev . They are scares and thus precious . Second is the unwinding spiral of his monologue. It is a stream of consciousness at times as elevated as his dancing was . you begin to question if these ravings are true . Value of the work Romola did by preserving this material for posterity is insurmountable. What a curious being she must have been .
Estos manuscritos firmados por Dios y Nijinsky son el vivo retrato de un bailarín muy talentoso que terminó por recaer en un serio caso de esquizofrenia en una época -sus primeros síntomas comienzan a advertirse en el 17- muy alterada por la guerra y, en particular, por la revolución en su país, que tienen vital importancia a lo largo de estas páginas.
No se puede leer este libro sesgándolo solo a partir de su valor estético, es en todo caso un manifiesto de una persona que realmente cree estar en comunicación con Dios y espera ser comprendido por toda la humanidad para salvarla definitivamente de la decadencia que imponían -e imponen hasta hoy- el comercio, las fronteras, los enfrentamientos bélicos y la desacralización de los valores.
Nijinsky helped redefine the role of men in ballet. If contemporary accounts are accurate he could probably have been a long jump champion, he could cover the length of a stage - holding an arabesque in the air that seemed suspended until he chose to allow gravity to exercise its force over him. His diary documents his decent into madness and makes us wonder what he could have accomplished had he not had to battle mental illness.
I always finish books, but can't make it through this one. Although it's interesting, after a while it feels a little sad and voyeuristic. Nijinsky repeats and contradicts himself constantly, there's no real constant train of thought.
Lyrically beautiful. Account of yet another persecuted artist experiencing the emotional extremes we call "mental illness" b/c of the pressures of being exploited by his manager Dhiagelev. Read it too long ago, wanna read it again.
Mi ha sempre affascinato la figura di Nijinsky ma forse era meglio se leggevo una biografia....Era veramente fulminato!
This was a difficult read. Naturally it was translated, but also, he wasn't quite same when he wrote it.

Nijinsky was world-famous: he was a star, and an icon.He also went mad, and spent decades (from his 30s on) in various mental institutions until his death.So do not expect any name-dropping, famous encounters and incredible anecdotes about the Art world in this diary: Nijinsky has long rants at two people: Diaghilev and Stravinsky, whom he sees as similar and of one mind (which in itself is ironic since Stravinsky's correspondence shows clearly how difficult (to say the least) his relationship with Diaghilev was...)But beyond those two famous names, there's only God, really, and his wife, and himself.
However, I think the finished book is relevant mainly to those with a professional interest in the human psyche.
I began to read hoping that there might be some extraordinary insight into the great gifts of Vaslav Nijinsky, although someone whose art is non-verbal but who can enlighten us through the medium of words may well be an exception.
In reality, the insights are into the troubled mind and will be valuable for the practising psychoanalyst or other professional to disinter.The pages written by the dancer contain the diary, photographs, some poems and letters; they run from page 3 to page 299.
QUOTES	“I felt in the way because they wanted to speak about something but were silent.
despite nijinsky's several indications of his wishes for his diary to be widely read and translated into many langauges, i still felt like i was committing an unforgivable trespass against him by reading it.
but by the time i got to the mad logorrhea of the fourth notebook, i did not have the spirit to delight in any of its obsessive puns; i only looked at the mess and asked myself gloomily if there were any differences but superficial differences between this meaningless text and any text, and what on earth am i doing reading all the books i read-- ugh...
this book is fascinating but it can spoil your day.
I have recently started diving head-first into the world of nonfiction literature and have found that I really do enjoy it.
Although, I'm not sure if Nijinsky's diary is exactly the same because this book, even though it was translated, read like a novel and I was pulled into his world.
Nijinsky's slow descent into madness took me right along with him.
I have always loved Nijinsky's work and the different way he thinks but delving into this book gave me a whole different perspective in who Nijinsky was and thought.
I enjoyed this book so much and find so interesting and very intriguing to be in the mind of someone like Nijinsky.
