https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64949.The_Voice_of_the_Night
If there was one thing I could count on with his books, it’s suspense.
Personal favorite: From the Corner of His Eye. I think he’s best when combining suspense with emotion and a touch of the supernatural.The Voice of the Night is what then?
I almost put the book down for good.
But I had done just that with two recent books, and didn’t want to give up on another.Now guess what?!
The use of a pseudonym makes sense.So this is like two books for me, one bad, one good.
Good to pick up a Dean Koontz again.
Koontz-Alert Checklist (Every Dean Koontz book has at least one of the following ten things.)1.
Blond lead/love interest - Yes. There are quite a few blonds in this book, actually.2.
Did it withstand the test of time?
mmm...Other than the ending, this was just as fun as the first two times I read it.
It's still my favorite Koontz book.
I did notice more this time around, like Weezy's refusal to believe her son, who'd only ever been honest with her.
But, problems and all, I love this book.
this was my first dean koontz, and as you can see from my library, it basically opened a flood gate. i was fairly young when i read this, probably close to the age of the main character, and this book disturbed me in a lot of ways. i think if i re-read it, i would be a lot more hardened toward it, because i've read and watched a lot in the horror genre in the years since then. but i will always remember and cherish this as the first (and among the few) books that quite literally made me squirm.
Koontzland Group Read - December 2017     Dean Koontz in December: this is #4 out of 4 listed for me  What can Colin Jacobs do to protect his love? Will his best friend, Roy, be detrimental to the relationship Colin desires with Heather?Colin & Roy are "blood brothers". Colin's girlfriend is Heather Litshitz. Roy Borden says girls are more interested in him & violence. He bullies Colin on attacking a "passenger" train but Colin cannot help him. Colin & Heather find Roy is adopted,
Koontzland Group Read - December 2017 
Will his best friend, Roy, be detrimental to the relationship Colin desires with Heather?Colin & Roy are "blood brothers".
Colin & Heather find Roy is adopted, Roy killed Belinda (his adopted sister) using his adopted father's car.(view spoiler)[Coleen & Heather setup Roy, saying she's a "girl" for them to have sex with at a abandoned mansion.
Colin Jacobs and Roy Borden are 14 year old "blood brothers" driven by Roy, a school bully.
The book may take a little time to read to keep track of Roy-Colin "blood brother" relationships and Roy's training is fulfillment.

I have read quite a few Dean Koontz books but this is the first one I did not really like.
There was plenty of horror and suspense but the story never really grabbed me and the characters were more irritating than anything else.
I could not believe in Roy at all, nor could I believe that Colin could turn around his own character in such a short space of time and go from being scared of his own shadow to planning and carrying out the events of the final scene.
Oh well, there has to be the occasional fail when someone has written so many books.
3.5 It was enjoyable and fast-paced.
Written very simply, I was able to fly through it; not too mention I was intrigued to know when Colin would realize the truth.
About this, it got a little repetitive at the beginning.I really liked how the night was almost represented as another character and its voice beautifully described more than once.
I hated instead, the way Colin's mom acted when he was in need, she was a total bitch, I couldn't believe it; I wanted to smash her face.
I have no idea if there's a sequel but I don't think so and I don't really believe in Roy's redemption.
I've read this book four times and it's a real popper!The Voice of the Night, told in simplistic form, is a coming of age story.
Koontz highlights his classic storytelling with a mix of Horror & a love of Science Fiction.Favorite Passages: To Colin, who was a science-fiction buff, Roy appeared to be in telepathic communication with something that hid far out in the deep, dark, rolling water._______He wondered if Roy's parents really were nut cases.
Tell him you won't go."_______"Some people say they've seen spirits that glow in the dark, crazy things, headless children who come out onto this porch and run back and forth as if they're being chased by someone.
I know, I should've started with the first book Dean ever wrote, and read them chronicly, but, while sitting in the library, waiting for my friends, looking at Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's, than, Charles Dickens' work, this book just, sorth of, spoke to me.
So, I read the first twenty pages, and knew, that the book is something I'll enjoy - and it was.And I also liked, what Dean did with the ending - simple,yet, it leaves you, kind of empty - hounding for more.
I'm absolutely thrilled about Dean, and am looking forward to reading his work.
I didn't realize that I had read this book many years ago when it was published under the name Brian Coffey.
A few years ago I bought it when it was released on kindle under the name Dean Koontz.
Roy is a disturbed and twisted individual who enjoys torture and killing.I would probably have rated this 5 stars if Koontz had not made the mother such a senseless flipping moron who would rather believe outrageous stories about her son with no proof and so easily having the wool pulled over her eyes by an Eddie Haskell type fake politeness.
Not one of my fav Koontz novels. I had a hard time finding parts believable. Colin was too naive and Roy wasn't evil enough.
He doesn’t want to believe the stories but if they are true, what can he do about them?That’s all good but is the book good?
It takes the book about 170 pages to actually pick up pace.
The story abruptly ends so you don’t know what happens to the characters after the story is over but that’s alright for.
There are several minor characters but they don’t play much of a role to the story and they for the most part are two dimensional.
I recommend this book to fans of thrillers that don’t mind slow stories cause it does pick up.
A story of 14 year old boys that start off as friends who turn against each other. Not my cup of tea, but I guess the writing is okay. 3 of 10 stars
2.5 starsNothing to really say about this book.
It's evident Roy is psychologically manipulating him so Collin can be just like himself.
That's the whole point of the 'Blood Brother' thing.Collin later throughout the novel becomes more confident, builds higher self-esteem and becomes less naive.
You feel sorry for Collin and at moments Roy; even though, he's insane.
I've got a theory behind the reason for Roy's evil personality and Collin changing slightly that links to the Kingsman's house.
There is more to it but I will leave it at that.Roy said he's been to the house before when he and Collin went.
When Roy made the decision to kill Colin, the chase scenes were very well written.
Then later on anticipating what Colin's plan was to take down Roy made it very interesting to read.
It enabled that plot to go on further as Colin the lonely book nerd was only friends with Roy to gain popularity.
Along with that many people stated that Colin's change from being scared of the dark to planning an insane plot to stop Roy happened way too fast without regard to his development as a character.
For the same reason, it’s difficult to write such a book when you know it’ll be adult who’ll read it.
Just read back one of your own diaries or journals, and I’m sure you’ll be sighing, wincing, laughing at your younger self the whole way.Colin Jacobs is the new kid on the block, a skinny little bookworm to keep it stereotypical, who somehow falls in the grace of popular guy Roy Borden.
I said that it’s difficult to write a book about kids when you know adults are going to read it, but more than once I got the feeling Koontz wasn’t writing for adults at all, but for teens.
This book starts off at a decent pace, filling the reader in on the background of the important twists in the plot and connecting the reader with the main characters.
The empathy for Colin is ok, but I feel it lacked some type of emotional connection to me as a reader.
I am not sure whether the author wanted me to feel empathy toward Roy, but Roy felt a little bit empty to me.
The chase/fight scenes were written incredibly well and Colin as a character really was brought out by the Author, through his development of how he was growing as a person and who he was becoming.
I enjoyed this book, Does that make me a little psychotic??
I don't know i have been thinking about this after reading something Roy said to Colin.
This book is about Psycho in making...
Roy was seriously smart and adorable crazy and Colin is geek and innocent and stupid.
Wow what a read.
Roy's mom was a crazy bitch and Colin's mom was stupid bitch.
I was little skeptical before reading this one.
Am glad i read it.
Its not difficult to read.
Its just very interesting read.
Its entertaining alright and little scary and sounds very real.
A relatively short book with a fairly circumscribed plot involving a budding psychopath and a shy kid who has trouble fitting in who sees the former as a hero is not an unusual device.
Some of the passages seem to be familiar in his later works, but in all the whole thing seemed predictable and trite.
Well, I gotta give Mr. Koontz his due, since it WAS an early work.
Not a necessary read for Koontz fans, in my opinion, but it goes fast and one can see the potential for more complex plot lines and deeper, more widespread indications of evil in his later stuff (my favorites: "Hideaway" and "Watchers" - you'll like 'em too).
To be honest, I could tell while reading the book that it was probably an earlier work.
The book reads more like a novella than a novel, if that makes sense.
The simplicity of the plot is a nice counterbalance to what I feel is one of Koontz's most terrifying characters, which happens to be a 14-year-old serial killer in the making.
There's also no supernatural element in the plot, which is a diversion from what I'm used to in his work.
This lack of a supernatural presence really makes the story even more horrifying and creepy because it's all so real.
Roy being the kid that knew how to manipulate someone weak like Colin.
"The game." pushing Colin to be what he never thought be could be.
Personally, I wanted Colin to shoot Roy, let him die and show everyone why.
I might even have been okay with Colin letting him live, had Koontz gone into what came of that.Did Roy get taken away from his 'mother'?Did he end up getting the help he needed and ending up okay?Did him and Colin end up friends again?The ending was literally the entire reason I did not give this book five stars.
My first Dean Koontz novel and I am genuinely disappointed. I was enjoying the ride until about halfway through the novel when it started to become a bore. There didn't seem to be much of a climax and I didn't realize I had reached the climax until I finished the book. The writing style left a lot to be desired, though the character development was definitely there. All I heard about Koontz was accurate, basically just a bad Stephen King.
When I read this book I think it took me less than a week to finish it. Another good Dean Koontz read, it tells the story of a shy teenage boy named Colin, who is on summer vacation. He befriends the most popular kid in town named Roy, and Roy appears to become very connected to Colin, as they become close Roy asks Colin an unexpected question, has he ever killed anyone?
Loved it! Im a sucker for a creepy kid story!
I really liked this interesting book.
I always enjoyed mystery/thriller books like The Girl on The Train and it didn't disappoint.
Once I got into the book it was incredibly hard to put down.
The killer in the book is disgusting and brutal yet very smart about getting away with his crimes in an incredibly intriguing and almost beautiful way.
The main character gets put in a rough spot where he can't go to the police because he fears that the killer has planted evidence that would incriminate him and for his lover Barbara's safety.
overall i rate this book as a solid 5/5.
Ugh. I love Koontz but this was just not good. Not scary, not interesting, not captivating in the slightest. Just so not good.
An oldie but goodie! Felt like deja-vu because I think I read this in High School. Nevertheless, it was still a good read and reminded me that Mr. Koontz was one of the first authors to introduce me to the horror genre. It has since been my favorite genre to read and he has remained one of my all time favorite authors.
My first Dean Koontz book. Pretty good novel.
In fact, a number of their interactions have this odd, sexually-charged subtext feeling beneath it all, (though I'm sure there are those that would disagree with this assessment).And then the inevitable "betrayal" happens, when no, Colin will not in fact partake in any actual homicidal activities Roy has in mind, at which point their relationship loses all sense of subtlety and is simply Roy going "I'mma keel you now, beetch!" and Colin running for his life.
This in itself wouldn't have been too bad (though it kind of smacks of wish-fulfillment; the loner geek suddenly has a cute girlfriend), except by the end of it all, the characters have lost a lot of that kid-feel that they'd developed in the earlier part of the book.
