https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135289.A_Wrinkle_in_the_Skin
I'm surprised I haven't come across this book before.
Not only is is a superb little post-apocalyptic novel, it's exceptionally well written and interesting.
Set and written in the 1960s, it's also a fascinating slice of a life gone by--attitudes that are surprising, even to those of us who remember living this era.
Lots of furious teenage girls claiming that Katniss Everdeen is a more realistic representation of a woman's life post apocalypse (kickass and better than all the men).
I'll update when done.Finished this book relatively quickly as it's so easy to read, compelling and very well written.
Recommended for anyone who likes a great read.

But although these events are not only, uh, earth-shattering for those in the areas directly affected, few would deem them a possible concern for long-term, apocalyptic scenarios, as might be the case with, say, an asteroid collision...except, that is, British author John Christopher, in his 1965 novel "A Wrinkle in the Skin." Christopher, who was born in Lancashire in 1922, had already pleased this reader with his 1956 classic "The Death of Grass" (which told of a worldwide panic after all wheat and barley crops are infected with a virus), and had followed up with 1962's "The World in Winter," which depicted a new Ice Age. A "Wrinkle in the Skin" (aka "The Ragged Edge") turns out to be another very fine Christopher novel in the postapocalyptic vein, depicting a world in chaos following the mother of all quakes.In the book, the reader makes the acquaintance of Matthew Cotter, a middle-aged divorcé who is currently living on the Channel Island of Guernsey and who has become a grower of tomatoes.
Big earthquakes strike.Our protagonist, a somewhat reclusive man named Cotter, living on the British island of Guernsey, survives.After meeting up with some other survivors, and forming a father-son type bond with a young, orphaned boy, he goes on a somewhat obsessive quest to try to find his teenage daughter, who had been away at college.The book gives a very negative and rather sexist(?) viewpoint on humanity.
The positive aspects and outcomes feel sort of tacked-on - like, after the other things that have been shown, they don't ring true.On the island, the first group of survivors fall instantly under the sway of a "strong" man named Miller, who seems to have gained control simply by bossing people around.
This is another enjoyable slab of post-apocalyptic cosy catastrophe from John Christopher.
Of course, the book was written in the early 1960s, when much less was known about plate tectonics, so colossal earthquakes perhaps had some plausibility.Ultimately, though, the science is irrelevant, and to place post-apocalyptic novels in the science-fiction genre is perhaps mistaken.
In some ways, this is a novel that sits between the apocalyptic niche Ballard carved out in books such as The Drowned World and The Wind from Nowhere and the very British catastrophes of John Wyndham.The prose is as clean and lean as in The Death of Grass.
This novel is, in the end, less desolate, less gloomy than The Death of Grass.
The narrative follows the experience of our protagonist Matthew who's living on the island of Guernsey.
We then follow his discoveries as he learns that most of his fellow islanders are not so lucky and were crushed in their own homes.
The handful of survivors soon try to start setting up a camp with a view to longer term survival but Matthew's heart lies elsewhere, with his daughter who was living in Surrey.
Against the odds, he sets out on a quest to find out if she's still alive.As much as a journey to find his daughter, it is also a journey towards coming to terms with the world as it is, and also coming to terms with himself.
This book dates back to the 60s and some of the language and nuances do show themselves up but considering this books limitations it just goes to show how compelling the storyline is and the imagery used if it can stand the test of time.
This book was labelled part of the "cosy catastrophe" the story is intended to be down beat and show the darker sides of human nature.
Never intended to be used as a vehicle to horrify its readers the book still has some strong images such as the walk across the channel.I guess this along with "the death of grass" have a timeless starkness which is still as compelling now as it was then.
Another apocalypse science fiction book. I read two books of this genre in January 2009 (Happy New Year). The other one was "Alas, Babylon." I have to admit that I thoroughly enjoyed both of these books. This book made me want to be a better walker.
this could've been good, if the main character didn't have his head shoved so far up his ass. nothing can compare to The Stand, for my money.
Interessante per il dubbio: in caso di distruzione quasi totale, i superstiti sapranno mantenere la propria civiltà o si ritornerà alla legge del più forte?
This is another of Samuel Youd's (a.k.a John Crhistopher) post-apocalypitc survival tales.A series of massive catastrophic earthquakes (along with associated mega-tsunamis) strike around the world, leading to massive floodingof land areas and the apparent destruction of civilization around the world.
A British man goes on a desperate journey in search of his daughter across Islands near the UK and the bared dried sea-bed itself.
On the way, he encounters various pockets of survivors, many of whom have descended into barbarism and madness.
While scavenging through the vast ruins, he finds and rescues a child who he cares for and brings along on his desperatetravels and journeys.
It was an uncompromising read - the darkest Christopher I have read. Main issue was I thought the main characters gave up on society a bit quick, and assumed everyone else was without redemption. Maybe this was the correct decision based on what happens later.
One of my all time favorites. No monsters - except believable humans run amok and a hopeful ending. I wish there were a sequal.
rambling and boring for a post apocalyptic book. didn't care about the main character or the boy. there were some interesting scenes, but overall, meh.
Had to read this for a book group. A mediocre novel with a truly rubbish ending.
Excellent Post -Apocalyptic thriller, as real and relevant today as when it as written in 1965.

Anche per questo libro di Christopher vale la valutazione scritta per altri suoi romanzi del genere catastrofico: gli autori inglesi sembrano avere una marcia in più nel descrivere le difficoltà del genere umano dopo un cataclisma o una pandemia sconosciuta che abbiano ridotto drasticamente i sopravvissuti: anche questo è un romanzo che si legge tutto d'un fiato, sperando che nella realtà non accada mai quello che viene raccontato
Ho voluto leggere questo ulteriore romanzo proprio perché avevo già letto Morte dell'erba, che tra l'altro è stato il mio primo Urania.Il genere è il solito, cioè quello catastrofico: una serie di terribili terremoti sconvolgono l'intera umanità e un uomo e un ragazzino intraprendono il loro viaggio, la loro odissea. Ma alla ricerca di cosa? Di un'illusione o di una speranza? Un romanzo molto, molto introspettivo e che ho apprezzato moltissimo.Meglio di Morte dell'erba.
Although written in the 60’s the story is post apocalypse so it didn’t seem dated. As I was reading I kept wondering if Cormac McCarthy read this way back when and it gave him the idea for The Road. A man and a boy travel after a world-wide disaster takes down civilization. I do like John Christopher’s stories but I find that they do lag a bit in parts and found the ending of A Winkle in the Skin a bit obvious. All-in-all a fast and decent read for the genre.
Great disaster fiction. Hard to put down.
Boring.
Great book. I was particularly impressed by how he describes the plight of women in the new world.
It only reinforces my conviction that love and concern for other people is truly the only good reason for being alive, and not for personal gain or success.
Good people indulge in the most vile, wicked things, and those that were bad from the beginning somethimes act in reverse.
After you understand that in writing this sort of book you're writing about how humans behave and nothing else, you can focus on other aspects which add dimensions to the experience.
Somehow, I aways feel more enthusiastic about the world after I read this type of novel.
2.5 tähteä.Lyhyt ja ytimekäs maailmanloppujuttu II.Eräs aiempi John Christopherilta lukemani kirja ( Nälkäkuolema ) oli myös "lyhyt ja ytimekäs maailmanloppujuttu". Viimeisten ihmisten teema oli täysin sama, ja kirjanakin samaa luokkaa, joten yhteenvetokin saa olla sama.Valtavat maanjäristykset tuhoavat kaikki rakennukset ja jostain syystä kuivattavat Englannin kanaalin. Syitä ei sen kummemmin pohdita, ja vähän hämäräksi jäi sekin, mikä voi kuivattaa kanaalin silmänräpäyksessä, mutta mitäpä nois
2.5 tähteä.Lyhyt ja ytimekäs maailmanloppujuttu II.Eräs aiempi John Christopherilta lukemani kirja (
) oli myös "lyhyt ja ytimekäs maailmanloppujuttu".
Jonkun verran kyllä häiritsi, että maanjäristyksetkö olisivat tappaneet niin suuren osan – varmaan 95% – kaikista ihmisistä (ainakin paikallisesti Etelä-Englannissa ja kanaalin saarilla).
ja toisaalta edes joten kuten "sivistyneesti" elävien (tai sitä yrittävien) pienet ryhmät, jotka koittavat puolustaa itseään ryöstäjiltä ja raiskaajilta.Asetelmasta ei oteta mitään uutta irti, mutta enpä tiedä yritettiinkö edes.
Kirja oli riittävän lyhyt, että pärjättiin hyvin ilman mitään ihmeellisyyksiä.
In Ragged Edge, Matthew Cotter, living on Guernsey in the Channel Islands, finds himself one of the few survivors of a devastating earthquake.
He decides to set out to discover if his college-age daughter has survived in southern England.
The story's strength is the reaction of people to a world suddenly stripped of the veneer of civilization.
Matthew is sure from Day 1 that the world as a whole has come to an end (everywhere).
Just accept this in the beginning with Matthew and you will enjoy the rest of the book.
It’s a format I enjoy and John Christopher is good at it – HG Wells pretty much invented this sub-genre and Christopher turned it into the format we know now.
With HG Wells it is about forming a better world after the destruction of the old.
Longer term they thoughtful, if they are still alive, may have the chance to establish themselves.In this book the earth is hit by a series of earthquakes – the English Channel is now more.
The story is his story as he learns to adapt to the new, post-quake, world.This book is good but if you haven’t read it The Death of Grass, also by John Christopher, is probably better.
An interesting non-nuclear post-apocalyptic novel.
The novel is very linear (no flashbacks or postmodern elements), given that it was published in 1965.
This didn't really detract from the novel, as the pace was quick and there wasn't too much description.
The novel also had a strong female character at once point, which was nice to see in a novel from the 60s, and the novel provided instances of both awful people and kind ones which was also realistic.
Most of the staples of post-apocalyptic wanderers were seen: religious fanatics, raiders, an insane person living in denial, and groups of people trying to settle down somewhere.
Isolated off the British coast Matthew Cotter thinks that they will be okay, Britain is far from any earthquake zone, pity the poor devils on a fault, but that’s all happening far away.
But of course you can’t have a post-apocalyptic sci-fi story without the apocalypse can you?One night while Matthew is outside, waiting for a dog that has been attacking his chickens the quake hits.
Outside, protected by a bamboo thicket Matthew survives, but this was no minor earthquake, the entire island is no a ruin.
Cotter sets off looking for anyone else who may have survived.
I have now read two of his books (the other is The Death of Grass) and can't wait to read the next.A Wrinkle in the Skin tells the story of a man who after a massive, Earth changing earthquake sets out to find his daughter who lives on her own back on the mainland of England.
As he makes his way across the changed landscapes he is joined by a boy who has no family and the two continue his quest to find his daughter.
The book is heartwarming and the bond between the boy and the man becomes stronger as their adventures continue.
