https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32767.At_the_Mountains_of_Madness
Imagine: Your friend goes to Antarctica with a team of scientists and discovers the remains of a before-the-dawn-of-time alien civilization AND then finds the ripped up bodies of some team members lying around AND then was chased by the lost alien forms.
All he wants to do is describe the icy, mountainous, eerie, tunneled landscape that Roerich built: So you're like, no, go back to the part about the ripped up bodies.And he's like, no, let me tell you more about the icy, mountainous, eerie, tunneled landscape that Roerich built.
Ο κοσμικός τρόμος που απλώνεται στην αριστουργηματική γραφή του πηγάζει και εμπνέεται απο την ύπαρξη τεράτων-μορφών-άμορφων- θεών-προβολών- στο συνειδητά ασυνείδητο του ανθρώπου.
Πρέπει να έρθουν τα άστρα στη σωστή θέση...για να ανοίξουν οι πύλες της φυλακής και τότε τα χταποδόμορφα ειδεχθή πλάσματα με τις τεράστιες φτερούγες δράκου και τις μεμβράνες στα δάχτυλα θα επανέλθουν κοντά στα δημιουργήματα τους,τους ανθρώπους...Έως τότε επικοινωνούν μαζί μας μέσα απο τα όνειρα, όπως και ο Αρχιερέας τους ο Κθούλου,ο Εξώτερος θεός.
Όταν ξεπεραστεί αυτό το λάθος θα κατανοήσουμε την πηγή της δημιουργίας μας που καμία σχέση δεν έχει με όσα έχουν ως τώρα ανακαλύψει οι επιστήμονες.
6.0 stars. As I was experiencing Lovecraft’s supremely awesome, nightmarish masterpiece, At the Mountains of Madness (ATMOM), it really struck me for the first time that he was a tremendously literate writer. I have been a fan of Lovecraft for a long time and have always been gaga for his bizarre imaginative stories. However, what jumped out at me on this reading of ATMOM was how impressively Lovecraft enhances the sense of dread that hangs over his stories through the colorful, melodramatic la
To demonstrate HPL's expertise with dramtic language, I have put together a few examples of quotes from ATMOM along with a more straight-forward, less colorful approach that a lesser "non-awesome" writer (NAW) might employ.
Finally, ATMOM ties together many of Lovecraft’s earlier stories, including: “The Dunwich Horror, “The Call of Cthulhu,” “The Colour Out of Space,” “Haunter in the Dark,” “The Thing on the Doorstep,” “Pickman’s Model,” and “The Shadow over Innsmouth.” Long time readers of Lovecraft will have fun spotting the references and connections to these stories.
I really wanted to like this because H.P. Lovecraft is likable as a person and I know he's so influential in horror but I couldn't do it. The story is well written and original but the writing style was so dry and boring because it's a scientist recording their expedition that I had to drag myself through it. There was just so much detail about things that weren't interesting when all I wanted to know more about was the horrible shit that was happening to them.
A TRAGIC HOMECOMINGAnd so we slept for a million millennia, on the edge of our great city. So close and yet so far! Why were we outside of our fair city, our families and companions mere steps away? The reasons are lost in time. And as we slumbered, our tropical paradise became a land of neverending winter, a polar graveyard.  We were woken, those of us who still lived. Four lived and four were lost. We woke in confusion and terror, our tropic city gone, the snow and wind howling around us. Stra
A TRAGIC HOMECOMINGAnd so we slept for a million millennia, on the edge of our great city.
We buried our dead and then made haste back to our city, to see what changes a million millennia had wrought.
Only our loyal companions remained in this terrible empty city.
A million millennia is a long time!
We that remained of the Elder Race, lost out of time, born again into a world so strange, and then so quickly slain.The biped explorers had their own meeting with our rebel servants.
What did the explorers glimpse in their flight near Kadath?
Having the character demonstrate this trait once or twice in a story is perfectly effective, without wasting a lot of space reiterating.Reading this plodding list of details reminded me of nothing so much as discussing writing with a teenage would-be fantasy author: ask about his book, and he'll spend forty minutes telling you what color swords the southern nation has, how many priest-kings ruled in succession over the Lost Isles, what city-states exported the most grain in the decades since the mana-plague, and the convoluted rules he's put together for how a fire spell works.In short, by the end, he hasn't mentioned anything that resembles a story: no sense of character, psychology, pacing, tone, plotting, structure, theme, climax, pivotal scenes, conflict, tension, style, language, dialogue--never forget that, when it comes to a good story, setting is irrelevant.
never before has such an exciting story been told in such a dull way.
Be it as it may, Lovecraft has indeed managed to create a story that is one of his best: as uncanny and haunting as that of Poe, and at the same time, in line with his own imaginary world.Written just fifty years after the death of Charles Darwin and a couple after that of Alfred Wegener, I guess this story is the most hellish nightmare a creationist or anthropocentrist could think of: not only is the Earth very old, but the coming of man follows a cosmogony that is the polar opposite of the Book of Genesis.
SCRL: Reading is hard on my eyes, I like checking out the babes in the audience with my big screen TV.RL: This also highlights the depth and breadth of Lovecraft's imagination and the detail to which he is capable.
SCRL: I like that the wrestlers are so sweaty.RL: I see resonance of this work in many later writings, especially mention of the cosmic Old Ones, as well as clear vestiges of his influence in The Thing, Aliens, Predator and of course, Alien vs.
Predator as well as countless other media.SCRL: and I like that Sigourney Weaver was in those fliks.RL: Don't be like this me, read Mountains of Madness for yourself and enjoy.
need I go on?The story begins with that rarefied sense of heroic antarctic exploration that permeated the accounts of Scott, Amundsen, and Shackleton's expeditions.
The choppiness of the language seemed correct and historically accurate to me, since shortwave radio had been in use for only a decade or so before Lovecraft wrote the story.
This is not my favorite Lovecraft story.
And if you're a Lovecraft fan, as I am, you'll recognize many of the elements, though you'll be surprised by others, such as the narrator's conflicting feelings that I've outlined above.
This long novella (perhaps longer than it should be) succeeds in large part because--no doubt due to Lovecraft's enthusiasm for the Antarctic explorers--its scenery is evocative, its descriptions etxraordinarily vivid.At the Mountains of Madness has its literary fathers—Poe’s A.
Byrd’s was of course his immediate inspiration (Byrd returned in 1930, At the Mountains of Madness was written in 1931), but Lovecraft had also followed not only Amundsen’s and the unfortunate Scott’s undertakings (1912) when he was a very young man but also Borchegrevink’s Southern Cross Expedition (1902) when he was still a boy.
Like a barrel with five bulging ridges in place of staves.
Here's the thing about Lovecraft: he doesn't write great stories.
People love the whole mythos thing, and I don't blame them, because the Lovecraftian mythos is awesome.
In this novel, for example, the story is basically a framework for him to do some world building.
Lovecraft is clearly more concerned with building a history of the Old Ones than he is in telling a good story.
This might sound like a horrible thing to say about an author, but it's not meant to be.
Again, I think the worlds that Lovecraft builds are AWESOME.
I just don't like his writing style.
The first sentence of chapter 6 'It would be cumbrous to give a detailed, consecutive account of our wanderings inside that cavernous, aeon-dead honeycomb of primal masonry' Unfortunately the rest of the book described the cumbrous, detailed, consecutive account of their wonderings inside the cavernous, aeon-dead honeycomb of primal masonry.
This is a summary of the whole book so it contains spoilers (view spoiler)[Group of scientists go to Antarctica, one group are killed, other group of two investigate, find aliens.
(hide spoiler)]That's the whole book in under 50 words.
I just couldn't find the motivation or interest to concentrate and enjoy this book.
At the Mountain of Madness  COLD QUEST This is a novella......this time focused in a Geology Professor from Miskatonic University, leading an expedition to the Antartica......where they will find the astonishing remnants of an ancient alien civilization,......which between many things there were some kind of sentient beings whom weren’t totally animal or totally plant but something disturbingly in between……oh, and don’t look back!!!
“On the barren shore, and on the lofty ice barrier in the background, myriads of grotesque penguins squawked and flapped their fins”. Yep! We are in Lovecraft’s universe where even penguins are grotesque. I mean, whoever heard of an ugly penguin? At the Mountains of Madness is H.P. Lovecraft’s best known novel, not that difficult an accomplishment as he did not write that many (only this one and The Case of Charles Dexter Ward I believe. A wise decision because I find that his style is much mor
There are some amazing, creepy and wildly entertaining tales in the “greatest hits” anthology The Best of H.P. Lovecraft Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre that I reviewed rambled about in detail.At the Mountains of Madness is basically about an expedition to an unexplored part of Antarctica.
The main asset of this book is Lovecraft’s painstaking world building, free from the constraint of the short story format he takes his time describing the setup, the landscape and the increasingly strange discoveries.
The descriptions can seem a little interminable and the pacing can be something of a slog for the impatient readers, especially if they are not familiar with Lovecraft’s idiosyncratic writing style.
White, Cold ice giants with funny penguins dancing around like happy feet!That was before I read this book.If you ask me now about South pole, I would probably answer you in a toneless voice and a daunting thousand-yard stare...." It is a white, aeon-dead world which has shunned most of the living organisms, a nightmarish gateway to accursed ultimate abyss where stark unforgiving winds whisper the songs of death: the millions of years old runes of old ones....and no one can even find a polar bear to cuddle as they are found in the North Pole."An expedition to unknown.Isn't that how all the greatest disaster stories begin?
'...my warning may be in vain...'  ***4.5  (view spoiler)[Image source (hide spoiler)]***I don't remember many details from the first time I read this. And, as some pointed out, there are many, many details in this story. I won't judge it for being too descriptive though. It is a good story. The narrator retrospectively tells a story of an unsuccessful scientific expedition to the South Pole in 1930s. He is one of the only two survivors; he breaks his silence to warn others and prevent any oth
'...my warning may be in vain...'
  
***4.5
  
(view spoiler)[Image source
 (hide spoiler)]***I don't remember many details from the first time I read this. And, as some pointed out, there are many, many details in this story. I won't judge it for being too descriptive though. It is a good story. The narrator retrospectively tells a story of an unsuccessful scientific expedition to the South Pole in 1930s. He is one of the only two survivors; he breaks his silence to warn others and prevent any other expedition to that part of the world.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I mean, it's Lovecraft - as a nerd and a fan of horror literature, I am practically required to love him.
I hate to revert to middle school English lessons, but this novella basically took the idea of "show, don't tell" and thew it on the ground, peed on it, and set it on fire.
I don't need my horror to be non-stop, over-the-top madness, but this was just too dry and boring for my tastes.
I will be giving Lovecraft another try, but I'll be staying away from the Cthulhu stories and the like, I think.
Cualquier lector de Lovecraft sabe que cuando lee esta frase (que se repite en casi todos los relatos que leí), es porque el protagonista está empezando a dudar de su razón (una de las cosas que lo constituye como sujeto).
(V)Pero hombres científicos hasta el fin, lo que no puede dejar de hacer el narrador aquí (y en todos los relatos que recuerdo), es proceder a la descripción.
I also know that it would be fatal to explore further if I would prefer to keep whatever sanity is left with me, a knowledge I will keep close to my heart and never stray from.
That said, Mr. Lovecraft spent a great amount of energy building up the scenery, planting seeds of doubt and inducing fear.
Whereas I happily would distribute 5 stars for writing skills and the efforts of rendering a realistic arctic exploration scenery, the total reading experience measures out to only 3 stars.Others may have a strong infinity for H.P. Lovecraft, I´ll put him to rest for a while.
Geologist William Dyer led an expedition to Antarctica which resulted in a tragic end to some members of the group.
Lovecraft spends most of the book with his world building, pages and pages of dry descriptions of strange life-forms and an ancient civilization.
Archeologists would have taken years to interpret the carvings that Dyer and a fellow scientist figure out in part of one day.
This could have been a more suspenseful story if Lovecraft had added more human emotion and less description.The story was published in 1936 when very little was known about Antarctica.
I wanted to be frightened, scared silly, not bored over and over again reading about an expedition to Antarctica where our narrator finds out about ancient beings called "The Great Old Ones" and proceeds to tell us every little thing about them to the point I was saying who cares.This story was told in the first person by a geologist named Dyer.
From there he and a student named Danforth fly past the mountains and come across some hieroglyphics that they can read (which also made me roll my eyes) and come to know the story of these things called the Great Old Ones.I just didn't care.
Lovecraft Illustrated Volume 6Contents:ix - Introduction by S. T. Joshi 003 - "At the Mountains of Madness" by H. P. Lovecraft 147 - "Frozen Horrors" by Pete Von Sholly 149- "In Amundsen s Tent" by John Martin Leahy 171 - "On In Amundsen s Tent" by John Martin Leahy by S. T. Joshi 175 - "The Occupant of the Tent" by Robert M. Price
Lovecraft has proven that he is master of descriptive writing that creates a sense of mystery, atmosphere, and dismay.
The author’s vivid depictions of the landscape of these Polar Regions pull the reader into a nightmare realm and leave the reader with a disturbing sense of loneliness and anticipation of what the explorers will encounter next.
Upon finishing this book, I realized that this is one of the greatest horror/science fiction stories I have ever read.
I am left with the hunger to explore more of Lovecraft’s Ctulu mythos and move these stories higher on my to-read list.
His narrator, in recounting his perilous journey from which only he and one other explorer/scientist returned, is attempting to discourage others from following in their footsteps, lest they too unearth Things Man Was Not Meant to Know.All the classic Lovecraft tropes are here — alienness incomprehensible to human minds, non-Euclidian geometry, sanity loss, and awful truths about prehistory revealed.
The city the scientists discover in the South Pole was once inhabited by a race of creatures from another star, known only as the Old Ones.
The Old Ones were scientifically and culturally advanced, and created servants to help them build their great cities.
ah, the horror in mere descriptions. First the desolation of Antartica. The cave with the bodies of unknown creates. Missing equipment. Discovery. And when things seem to level mention the Necronomicon
It's like this narrator guy is in some state of neurosis or something, because whenever he sees something bigger than him, something he can't explain immediately, something that is covered from his view - he gets a bad feeling, he knows it's evil, he feels it's sinister, it's abhorrent and it's unnatural and it's disturbing.
The Old Ones.When the monster looks like an overgrown cucumber with fake wings, spaghetti pasta instead of limbs and some sea creature on top I kind of start giggling and fail to dig the horror yet another time.
Gitarella al Polo Sud Forse la summa della poetica lovecraftiana, qui esplicata attraverso una lenta discesa in territori ininteleggibili che celano segreti innominabili nonché altre dimensioni in attesa di schiudersi davanti agli occhi dei pochi "fortunati".La prima parte soporifera lascia spazio a un'escalation di orrori che, sul finale, ridisegna gerarchie dimensionali e la stessa catena alimentare: l'orrore cosmico è servito.
This is the second book in a row I've read that uses the phrase "risky business". Definitely not a coincidence.
I've often seen it mentioned as the definitive Lovecraft story, and the best introduction to his Cthulu mythos, but I don't agree - and will explain why shortly.At the Mountains of Madness is narrated by William Dyer, a geologist and professor at Arkham's Miskatonic University, in the form of a warning: Dyer writes down the account of an expedition to Antarctica in which he took part in order to stop another one which is being planned.
A trail of strange, inhuman footprints leads Dyer and his companion to a range of mountains higher than the Himalayas; they cross the monstrous range by an airplane, and discover prehuman, frozen ruins of a city, with architecture completely alien to the human imagination.This discovery is also the story's biggest drawback.
