https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23316548-the-book-of-negroes
Aminata is unflinchingly honest with herself and others, and by being so thoroughly in her head, she gives us what the Africans needed most during slavery: a voice, the understanding that she's just like us, not some black beast from darkest Africa - heathen, barbarian, uncivilised.
It's an old African tradition, nothing to do with Islam, and still occurs in some places like Ethiopia).There are moments of violence and cruelty, because that was largely the life of the black slaves, but while Aminata doesn't gloss over them, neither does she dwell on them in such detail that you shy away from the book.
This is a book where the plot is centered around slavery, but the book isn't really about slavery.
Aminata was an incredible protagonist, and I wish more people could be like her.It is a fantastic book, and I highly recommend that everyone read it!
It has really made me want to pick up more books that focus specifically on different cultures, as it really opened my eyes to how brutal some parts of the world were (and still are).
It may be fiction, but most of what happens in this book is true, and it really hits you hard.
Thank you for last week-end!
NOTE: If you have received your mail, I have started this book which you told me I MUST MUST read.
WOW....I'm hooked already!
Thanks *Ilyce*!
(luv, ya...'Hi to Ken')---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------WOW!!!!
(I'll be thinking about this book for a long time)!"The Book of Negroes" is a real historical document -which lists names of slaves who chose to leave the United States to go to Canada.
Amazing characters, (indomitable heroine), times, places, human suffering, and eventual freedom.Its a long thick-fat paper-back book ---but I enjoyed reading EVERY WORD!.
Cheers to Lawrence Hill!
This is definitely the best book I read in 2011 and one I will remember for a long time. Aminata Diallo is such a powerful character, a woman who had to deal with so much in her life but came out with a small victory in the end. Slavery is something we all know about but it's very rare we really think about what the slaves went through, and how they were forced to adopt to a new culture and life separated from their family and homeland.Lawrence Hill did exceptional work on this book.
This is her powerful story that will make you laugh, tear and jump for joy all at the same time.
The Book of Negroes will stay with you long after you have read it.I couldn't put this one down.
There are times it's heart-breaking, so I had to pause and not read it for a day but I couldn't wait to get back to it.
The story is one of survival and also one where our main character can't call anywhere else "home." Aminata is one character to admire, that's a fact.
I cried tears of sadness and joy all at the same time.
However, I will say that this is the type of book that demands to be read and more importantly, to reach a vast readership.
It demands that you sit down and put your WHOLE heart into reading this novel.
I say this because this story doesn't fully release the reader until they have hit the very last page and felt every emotion one could ever think to feel and even then, Hill's writing grips you and won't let you rest.
I beseech everyone who reads this review to READ this book AND to spread the word, Hill's novel deserves to be the next phenomenon.
Not because I'm a pinhead, but becauseThe Book of Negroes lacks what I need in a novel.Time and again, when I read these types of novels, I can't help but hold them up to the bars that were raised by Rohinton Mistry's A Fine Balance, or Khaled Hosseini's A Thousand Splendid Suns.
How could this story of a girl sold into slavery and sent halfway around the world be anything but tragic?While I felt for everything she had gone through, and felt for her losses, the betrayals, I didn't feel a whole lot for her.The Book of Negroes reads like an autobiography, but this is a novel.
Black doesn't necessarily mean good/friend.
Because the book was so expansive, there are points in the story towards the end that seem rushed in terms of character/plot development.
However, this works on some level because the circumstances in the plot suggest that Aminata herself may have been rushed towards the end of writing her story....but I could also be making excuses for the author because I like the book.
This is actually the first book I have read about the slave trade, but it will definitely not be my last.
Update (2): This just in from BOOK NEWS -"Lawrence Hill's bestselling novel The Book of Negroes is set to be adapted for film thanks to a chance meeting in a Toronto bookstore."http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/a...Update: "The Book of Negroes" by Lawrence Hill tops Amazon.ca books list for the week ending June 16, 2009Larry's extensive research and plain great story-telling are only two of the reasons why it was Longlisted for the Scotiabank Giller Prize; the winner of The Rogers Writers' Trust Fiction Prize; went on to become a #1 National Bestseller; and was most recently not only the winner of Canada Reads, but was declared the readers' choice -- by a landslide.
This book was obviously sad and depressing given the topic, but it was also fascinating. There was so much history I was unfamiliar with, especially about slavery in Nova Scotia and and the return of ex-slaves to Sierra Leone. At times, the main character seemed a bit improbable and the ending was particularly improbable, but she was a great vehicle for seeing and understanding slavery in a number of contexts and also understanding that "undoing" the damage done is very complicated.
So my ancestors' journey may well have had much in common with that of Aminatta Diallo, the protag in The Book of Negroes.
One of the other things I learned from The Book of Negroes is that I'm a sucker for the epic, melodramatic saga-type novel!
When I closed the book I had a renewed respect for the bravery of my ancestors who had made this same journey as captives from Africa to America (and, in their case, back to Africa again).
This is the story of Aminata, stolen from her homeland in Africa and taken into slavery in America on the cusp of the Revolutionary  War.
Known as Mina, she easily learned languages and how to read, which helped her survive from one owner to the next, from one town to the next, from one country to the next, and from one continent to the next.
All she wanted was to have a family and to some day return to her homeland.
She does this but we all know that a century later slavery still existed.
5 stars because honestly, it is an amazing, accomplished story.
Read it.
I can't believe I never rated this book. Iris if you are reading this, Lisi and I both read this together years ago. It's soooo gripping. Possible to put down... sooooo heartbreaking. The author, Lawrence Hill, has a new book our...( I'm in the middle of hiking -audiobook listening to another book...stopped to use the girls room- check mail -- and just discover his new book.It's called "The Illegal"....But I can't recommend this book highly enough. Warning though...you'll be 'spent' when finished!!!
If any of Horatio Alger's characters had been born African and sold into slavery, Aminita Diallo might be its preincarnation.
It's hard to say that any slave is fortunate, yet Aminita, compared to those around her, keeps drawing to an inside straight only to be dealt the right card.
In much the same way Horatio Alger sold a dream to oppressed workers, Lawrence Hill uses Aminita to revises a horrific chapter of human history just enough to give hope to a generation so far removed from it, the truth might be met with disbelief.
But does that end justify the fiction?
What an amazing book! The protagonist is spectacular - I don't think that I have ever identified so completely with a character in slavery. The author incorporates historical events which were new to me - always a plus. The story was so compelling and so true to human behavior. No group was all good or all bad, just human. I am just dazzled by this superb work.
There isn't enough space to fill all the accolades Lawrence Hill deserves with Someone Knows My Name!! Captivating in every way with a story line that grabs you from the first sentence and ends with you thinking....Awesome!! A book I won't forget and one that is a on my top, top favorites!!!
Insightful.This is a difficult book to read.
I think this is a novel that everyone must read at least once in their lives.
Learning the history of such a tough topic is incredibly suffocating at how horrific it is that any of it happened in the first place.
You see the pain through her eyes, you feel the pain as she feels, and you begin to see reality in a way that previous to the novel, you wouldn't have envisioned, not even with the knowledge and education on the topic from textbooks.
This book is an incredibly breathtaking series of events, and I recommend this to everyone and anyone and will do so until the end of time.
This tale follows Aminata Diallo from Africa to South Carolina to New York City, to Birchtown, Nova Scotia to Seirra Leone to London, England.
As I commence writing a paper about this novel I have begun delving into the actual history of black Loyalists in Nova Scotia and find that Hill's treatment of Birchtown does not deviate very far from the actual setting of history.
I like the tone and images evoked by this poem, but think it should also include the water-rippled pages from steamy baths and rounded curves from clutching a girls bottom in her back pocket.
Using the historical "Book of Negroes" as a component, Lawrence Hill has created a sweeping picture of the African slave trade through the life of one woman, Aminatta Diallo.
Ultimately we the readers are treated to an amazing amount of information through this novel (and if you want more just check the author's reading list at the end).
He lists where The Book of Negroes is available to be viewed also.
I was struck while reading this novel by the care with which Hill maintained the narrative voice throughout the book.
So begins the lifetime odyssey of Aminata who is renamed against her will "Meena." Aminata is a very unique black character, one which most people who have read stories about Africans who have been enslaved are not used to.
The author Lawrence Hill who is Canadian writes:"I used The Book of Negroes as the title for my novel, in Canada, because it derives from a historical document of the same name kept by British naval officers at the tail end of the American Revolutionary War. It documents the 3,000 blacks who had served the King in the war and were fleeing Manhattan for Canada in 1783.
My character, an African woman named Aminata Diallo whose story is based on this history, has to get into the book before she gets out.
Aminata Diallo was pulled from her home in Africa at 11, forced to walk 3 months to the coast, crossed the Atlantic on a slave ship, and then was sold into slavery.
I loved Aminata.
But at the same time, there's a distinct sense of hope and purpose that made me want to keep travelling with Aminata, to keep seeing what was around the next bend of the road.
There were some inconsistencies regarding the dates, and toward the end, there were quite a few repetitive thoughts, but overall, I loved this story.
Very glad that I read it.
WOW! This book was an amazing account of a woman with so much strength & resilience. Aminato is the woman that we should all long to be. Through all the fear, hurt, anger, pain, & being down right deceived, she persevered  through it all. Most would crumble & give up on life. Aminato decided to live, and was rewarded with the best GIFT EVERR. I loved every minute of her journey. Even when it was hard to read. My only regret is that it sat on my shelf for far too long.
Her story starts out with her peaceable existence in her village, then her frightening voyage to stay alive as she crosses the Atlantic chained in a slave ship, to her youth spent in slave labor in the US followed by her escape into Canada, a return to Africa and finally ending up in the UK.
In the history books used in schools Canada is often seen as a land of hope for the escaped slaves but it couldn’t have been farther from the truth.
I am sorry to report I was disappointed in this book.
But there wasn't enough about that; most of the book was devoted to Aminata's kidnapping, passage, and slave days.
Nothing wrong with that, but when he finally got around to the less familiar topics, he seemed to run out of gas.What bothered me more, though, was the mediocre writing (and editing).
I think the book would have been better if the author had used the third person.I'd still recommend the book, but I wish it had been better.
I'd like to read more about the subject, but I wouldn't run to read more books by this author.

I have no words. This was one of the best books I've ever read, very touching.
i think he succeeds.maybe he should have abandoned the genre conventions, written a different kind of story, made the characters more tridimensional and complex and nuanced, instead of sticking to black-and-white (pun totally meant) representations, the way the original writers did.
this is also something that comes to fruition particularly towards the end.* because he puts us inside the head of aminata better than douglass and jacobs (the only two ex-slaves whose narratives i've read) put us inside their own heads, hill makes us feel the pain of loss and dehumanization more strongly, to the point that, as someone else here on GR pointed out, we feel that this could happen to us.
However, when a knowledgeable and perceptive novelist transforms these records and the many personal accounts of cruelty and tragedy on the one hand and survival, perseverance and hope on the other into one inclusive narrative around one memorable character, the realities of the many merge into one rich and lively, heart wrenching and joyful history-based novel of exceptional beauty and power.First we meet Aminata Diallo, the heroine of The Book of Negroes, as a frail old woman, yet with a fiery spirit and resolve that she must have had all her life.
What an incredibly beautiful story
Reading it, to me, felt like story time in elementary school.
You know, you'd be excited to hear the next part of the plot and while it was being read to you it utilized all of your senses.
How does a couple convince themselves that taking a child from her mother is a good idea?What kind of terrible omen would it have been for a slave to escape the shackles of America and Canada only to be taken back to Africa and live next to the place you were shipped away?
