https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178734.Summerhill
Wow ... I saw a friend 'currently' reading this.It brings back memories of being a Freshman in college.. ( dorm room late nights -- James Taylor music-- and this book, "Summerhill". Tell me..I'm not the only old fart who has memories of this book?
This book blew my mind as a teenager. Basically it is a description of a "radical" school in England that believed - back when this was not a popular idea - that the child is born inherently good, and should be allowed to discover the world/academics at her own pace. A.S. Neill, the founder of the school and the book's author, is a little heavy on Freud but it's a very, very interesting documentation of a social experiment.
His class, however, despite a bow to orthodoxy by having us go through Ausibel and Robinson's textbook, included some great ancillary reading, the best and most provocative of which was A.S. Neill's Summerhill.
For one who was going out of his way to read radical literature, Summerhill was still impressive, maybe the most challenging and eye-opening of the lot.Imagine, then, a successful educator running a school entirely without coercion.
Imagine raising a child entirely without coercion.
These were new thoughts to me at the time and the impact of Neill on American education in the sixties was comparable to Rousseau's on the French two centuries earlier.
Чтобы быть естественным образом хорошими, им нужны поддержка и свобода"."С детьми, которые вас боятся, жить гораздо легче, чем я теми, которые вас любят, - в том смысле, что с первыми жизнь течет гораздо спокойнее"."Очень часто испорченный ребенок воплощает для родителей новый шанс на успех в жизни""Вызывающее поведение детей - всегда вина взрослых""Тоталитаризм всегда начинался и до сих пор начинается в детской""В дисциплинированных странах жизнь стоит дешево""Задача ребенка в том, чтобы прожить свою собственную жизнь, а не ту, которую выбрали его беспокойные родители"Ну, и самое главное:"Как можно взрастить счастье?
I loved and hated this book about how children who are not coerced to do anything become uninhibited and naturally good and caring (given a situation with enough social pressure to be that way).
The book was based on Neill's school where he didn't force any child to go to classes (but most students went anyway).
The book went on for too long, way past the point that I felt I understood his approach.
I also feel like maybe his approach worked for neurotypical students, but felt disappointed that he didn't bother addressing why the Summerhill school didn't work for everyone.
Mereka membuang jauh-jauh ketertiban, arahan, anjuran, pengajaran moral, dan pengajaran agama."Kami dianggap berani dengan ide ini, padahal tak dibutuhkan keberanian apa pun," ujar Neill.
Bahkan bagi anak yang baru masuk ke sekolah "sesukamu" itu, mereka bebas bermain sepanjang waktu, berhari-hari, bahkan bertahun-tahun.Neill sangat memahami, butuh waktu bagi anak untuk menjadi dirinya sendiri setelah begitu tertekan dari sekolah "normal".
Bisa jadi mereka bersumpah tidak akan pernah mau lagi mengikuti pelajaran "terkutuk" yang selama ini mereka dapatkan dari sekolah lamanya.Bagi Neill, pelajaran bukanlah sesuatu yang penting.
Anak-anak yang sangat putus asa dan tertekan dengan sekolah, butuh "penyembuhan".
But the rest of the book, in which Neill explains his philosophy toward children, felt very dated and way off-base to me.
Neill turns out to be a Freudian (this book was written around 1960), and he believes that most problems children have stem either from not knowing where babies come from (having that knowledge withheld from them by well-meaning adults) or from not being allowed to touch themselves (and feeling shame about sexual impulses).
But mostly reading this book made me question my respect for and belief in The Idle Parent, since it's author seems to place so much faith in Neill's philosophy.
This book change the way I see parenting and education from that of a discipline controlling one to giving the freedom that a child crave for.
It not meant to be prescriptive, it meant to broaden up ones perspective.The book consists of 2 parts, the first part tells the experience on leading summerhill school, whereas the latter tells how the author becomes how he was and came about with the idea.
It puts the idea into context.Well recommended read for all parents.
Membaca buku ini seperti oase di tengah gurun gersang dunia pendidikan kita yang karut-marut. Konsep sekolah Summerhill ini memang radikal, gak ada peraturan di sekolah ini. Para siswa boleh sekolah, boleh bolos dan bermain sepanjang hari sesukanya. Tp yg pasti sekolah ini berhasil melahirkan pribadi2 yang mandiri, punya sikap dan cerdas. Sudah saatnya mendekonstruksi sistem pendidikan kita yang kaku dan cenderung otoriter.. Tp bangsatnya, pada bab2 akhir buku ini hilang gak tau kemana...
A pleasure to read. Neill's insights about raising children come from observing them grow in an environment that listens to their needs. It's an opportunity to learn that kids are naturally happy and good. If they are loved and raised according to their needs, they will become responsible productive adults by all means. Sad how much we miss of the kids' childhood by having them adjust to strict environments.
This is a great book about a man who started an experimental school where children are treated as equals and freedom is the main objective. It's so hard to explain, and the book is old and dated, but there are some great ideas about child-rearing which also makes me think about how I treat my own friends and family and the children I get to hang out with. Read it knowing that it was written a long time ago and that some of the language and ideas are outdated. Otherwise, I love this book.
Also, Freud's influence is abundant throughout, and it seems that the application of psycho-analysis worked for Summerhill back then (not sure if it would still apply today).The best part of the book for me was listening to a story of a man who decided that after a lifetime of working with children that: - children should be allowed to be children as much as they can in order to grow into happier persons - children are not meant to carry responsibilities that are not suited for their age - trust children and show them respect as individual (democratic environment of the school) - mis-direction of emotions (love, anger and anything in between) in family will manifest through child's "mis-behavior".
bukvalno jedini razlozi za 2/5 jesu Fromov predgovor i 5 bodova na seminarskom, inače bi 1/5 bila i te kako visoka ocena.
kan sudah dikeluarkan dari sekolah, memang na mereka akan kooperatif terhadap guru-guru na?' dan segala pertanyaan skeptis lain langsung muncul terhadap gagasan tersebut.maka...
buku ini langsung dilempar untuk menjawab pertanyaan-pertanyaan skeptis tersebut.
selama ini sekolah konvensional hanya mengajarkan apa yang mereka mau, bukan apa yang siwa na inginkan.sistem pendidikan melaju dengan tujuan belajar buku semata, memisahkan kepala dari kalbu.
sekolah selama ini hanya mengajarkan ilmu pengetahuan, mereka mengajari untuk mengetahui tetapi tidak mengajarkan untuk merasa.
neil mengajarkan sistem pendidikan yang tak hanya menghasilkan manusia intelek, paham semua teori-teori, tetapi mencetak lulusan yang memiliki konsep diri dan kedewasaan yang utuh.
The key to reading Neill’s book is to pay special attention to the anecdotes, the stories he tells of his successes and failures as he tries to help children grow, learn and go out into the world.
Summerhill students learn about civics and their importance to our lives from hands on experience.What was most upsetting to me on re-reading Summerhill was to see how far we have actually strayed from the principals of progressive education while proceeding under the illusion that we are adopting them.
Perhaps the greatest lesson we can learn from "Summerhill" is that education should be entrusted to people, not to methods.
This almost make me felt like I wanted to go back to school and not the kind of school I have in the past but the kind that Neil talked about or the way SummerHill School was in the past. The liberty of coming to school whenever one felt like it to a large extend astonishing and unknown of. Though I had my doubts about how well that would work or the kind of learning that would be possible in this space. But I was clearly proven wrong as I read the book.
A.S. Neill had a great idea for an experiment in education where children were able to learn and discover at their own pace. Since I was one of those children who did not learn to read on schedule, I was particularly taken with his ideas. This book is in no way radical now, and its reliance on Freudian ideas further dates it, but I still feel that in many ways, he was ahead of his time.
Love how this book was written. It's just one guy's story, and his attempt to be as honest as possible explaining something that is very hard to picture/understand. This guy's life is special because it is so authentic. He decided how he wanted to live and come hell or highwater he pursued it.
Хорошая книга, я бы даже сказала пособие для родителей, которые стремятся вырастить детей счастливыми. К великому сожалению, совершенно простая идея воспитания свободой, выраженная автором почти сто лет назад, и в наше время не покорила общество, "держащееся за свои болезни, как пьяница за рюмку".
One of the first books that Murray recommended to me, and how he wanted his children raised. Intriguing look at alternative education, probably not matched elsewhere and heavily reliant on A. S. Neill himself to keep the principles of the school going.
Atualíssimo!Qualquer um que pense em chegar perto de uma criança em qualquer estágio da vida deveria ler esse livro.
This version seems outdated now -- very Freudian, and the ideas are not so "radical" these days. But super interesting, especially for people interested in kids and/or education. Free the children!
Classic work on the most famous and influencial free-school. Neill is funny (and a little sexist) - but still a great book and very cutting age for its time.
So very interesting and right up my alley. While occasionally too Freudian and often too reliant on anecdotes, the ideas are fascinating and display an understanding of human nature.
Una molt valuosa reflexió sobre com ens han educat, com ens eduquen i com nosaltres educarem. El recomano ferventment!!
To say the least, this book is outside of the box as outside of the box can be.Summerhill School – A New View Of Childhood by A.S. Neil is a book that details the venture of those who took part in the school known as Summerhill, which sought to achieve a new standard of learning and growth.A.S. Neil was the person mainly responsible for this audacious undertaking, and his actions echo still to this day.What Neil sought to do was create a place where the idea/value of Freedom is wholly respected, through and through.
But, from my reading of Summerhill, I do not think he would agree with either of these statements.
In my view, his general point is that you should accept children, be on their side, understand their position, and - to as great an extent as possible - care and nurture them.
I am unconvinced that such great freedom is beneficial, but I am sure children should have more freedom than they currently do (or did when he was writing), and could often benefit from understanding, acceptance, care, nurturing, and having parents and teachers be on their side.
Parfois un peu borderline ou très complexe, de nombreuses idées sont à garder dans un coin de la tête pour notre propre développement en tant qu’adulte, parent, futur parent, thérapeute, ami, individu.
Summerhill se veut une école qui se centre avant tout sur l’épanouissement et l’ancrage de l’enfant dans la pleine conscience , au détriment des attentes actuelles de « réussite » matérielle financière ou étudiante.
Un avant gardiste qui mériterait qu’on s’y intéresse un peu plus.
Excluding the outdated views on homosexuality, the book is a perfect rundown on how to raise a healthy human being.As a high school teacher who already knew compulsory schooling is a form of violence, the book was an enjoyable read and it only confirmed what I already knew.On the other hand, it was quite fascinating finding out about Summerhill. The stories Neill tells are eye opening and entertaining.This is a mandatory read for ever parent, future parent and teacher.
This is an exceptional book in many ways, I would recommend it to everyone, to both parents and parents to be, as the book really opens your eyes and make you dig a bit deeper and seek for the real reasons triggering our reactions to child's behaviour. I believe that the approach to parenthood described herein will provide a significant chance for you to become a better parent and for your children to become happy and unfrustrated persons.
