https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64410.Galileo
اما کسی که حقیقت را می داند و آن را انکار می کند "تبهکار" استداستانی درباره تهدید و مهجور کردن داناییتا همچنان تحجر حکمفرمایی کندو مردم در ظلم و فقر زندگی کنند و زورمندان قوی تر از گذشته شوندو اسم این را گذاشته بودند نظم، نظم عالی یا به قول علمای مذهبی این است قانون جاویداناما چرا نظم در این سرزمین، منحصر به نظم در جیب خالی است و ضرورت.
How to live for freedom, truth and plurality of opinions if the majority of your community doesn't embrace your liberal curiosity, but believes in one single truth which needs to be protected at any cost?That is the question Galileo has to ask himself, and the question Brecht raised by choosing the topic during the darkest years of German oppression.Galileo is not a hero.He is not a religious martyr.He is not a perfect human being.He is independent, intelligent, inquisitive and inwardly free.
That is the main difference between ideology and science: the latter does not need heroes, because it can prove its point with reasonable, non-violent arguments and facts.Why is Galileo so unhappy then?Apart from being a scientist, he is also a human being living in an oppressive society, and with knowledge, you also acquire responsibility.
Leben des Galilei = Life of Galileo = Galileo, Bertolt BrechtLife of Galileo (German: Leben des Galilei), also known as Galileo, is a play by the twentieth-century German dramatist Bertolt Brecht with incidental music by Hanns Eisler.
The play was written in 1938 and received its first theatrical production (in German) at the Zurich Schauspielhaus, opening on 9 September 1943.
در لابلای نمایشنامه با اشعاری روبرو میشویم که از خود برشت است، زیرا برشت شعر نیز میسرودند.
و خدا هم حرفی ندارد که ما به علم فیزیک بپردازیم** آندره آ : بدبخت کشوری که قهرمان ندارد......گالیله : نه.
در نمایشنامه شاهد انسانی هستیم خوشگذران، به نام گالیله، که جستجوی حقیقت و کشف حقیقت، برایش مایه ی لذت است.
The play explores the pivotal moment in human history, at least in western history, when man confronts for the first time the proof that his conceptions of truth were entirely wrong.Galileo comes alive as a larger than life genius from the pages, full of witticisms and blustering energy.
In the discussions about Latin and how writing science in English will spell doom to the nobility, we get a sense that the real danger that Galileo represented was not just contradictory new knowledge but that the knowledge was suddenly out in the public realm.
ANDREA: This will found a new science of physics.
ANDREA: In common with the man in the street, we said: he will die, but he will never recant.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Unglücklich das Land, das Helden nötig hat: "Leben des Galilei" by Bertold Brecht"Galilei: Ja, wo ist sie jetzt?
Da isteine andere Sonne!Sagredo: Beruhige dich.
Die Kopernikaner?Galilei: Und der andere!
Frau Sarti!Sagredo dreht das Fernrohr weg: Willst du aufhören, wie ein Narr herumzubrüllen?Galilei: Willst du aufhören, wie ein Stockfisch dazustehen, wenn die Wahrheit entdeckt ist?Sagredo: Ich stehe nicht wie ein Stockfisch, sondern ich zittere, es könnte die Wahrheit sein."In "Leben des Galilei" by Bertold BrechtI watched this play in 2006 in Lisbon at Teatro Aberto starring Rui Mendes as Galileo.
A presentation entirely fitting to the cosmological concerns of the play, but which seemed to incorporate the audience by bringing it in, an effect reinforced by having the characters also walk outside the stage proper.
Most of them were by Michael Angelo, his David, Moses, Pietà, but there was also the Roman Boy with the Thorn.After attending the performance, I read the play and it is then that I recognized more of the Epic theatre aims of Brecht.
Brecht left the country; Galileo suffered house arrest.******Performance at the Valle-Inclán theatre, in Madrid.
بخشی از نامۀ گالیله به دوشس کریستینانوشته شده به سال ۱۶۱۵چند سال پیش، همان گونه که علیا حضرت بهتر میدانند، کشف کردم که در آسمانها چیزهای بسیاری وجود دارند که پیش از دوران ما هنوز دیده نشده بودند. تازگی این چیزها، و همچنین تضاد این چیزهای تازه با اندیشههای فیزیکی قدیمی، باعث خشم دیگران علیه من شد - انگار که من این چیزها را با دستان خودم در آسمان قراردادهام تا طبیعت را خشمگین سازم و در علم تغییری ایجاد کنم! آنها با دلبستگی فراوان به باورهای خود به جای دلبستگی به حقیقت، به دنبال انکار و تکذیب وجود
بنابراین چه کسی می‌تواند این اصل را کنار بگذارد و هنگام سخن گفتن راجع به زمین، خورشید و یا دیگر آفریده‌ها، ادعا کند که باید انجیل را تحت‌اللفظی فهم کرد؟ مخصوصاً با در نظر گرفتن این حقیقت که هدف اصلی متون مقدس، به هیچ وجه آموزش قوانین فیزیکی نبوده، بلکه عبودیت خدا و رستگاری انسان‌ها هدف اصلی این متون است.

Εξαιρετικός, όπως σε όλα του τα έργα ο Brecht.Οι σχετικά καινούριες εκδόσεις "Κάπα Εκδοτική", με θεματολογία το θέατρο, εκδίδουν τα πιο ποιοτικά βιβλία αυτή τη στιγμή στην Ελλάδα. Ποιοτικά, όσον αφορά, την εκτύπωση και το αισθητικό αποτέλεσμα. Πραγματικό κόσμημα για την βιβλιοθήκη.
"Πιστεύω πως ο μοναδικός σκοπός της Επιστήμης είναι να ξαλαφρώσει την ανθρώπινη ύπαρξη από το μόχθο! Όταν οι επιστήμονες, τρομοκρατημένοι από τους ιδιοτελείς δυνάστες, κατακτούν τη γνώση, μόνο για τη χαρά της γνώσης, τότε η Επιστήμη θα καταντήσει μια σακάτισσα και οι καινούριες σας μηχανές, μπορεί να φέρουν καινούριες δυστυχίες στους ανθρώπους!"  Συγγραφέας: Μπρεχτ, γραμμένο το 1937. Σκεφτείτε ότι ο Μπρεχτ ήταν Γερμανός, γνωστός αντιφασίστας και ότι ο Χίτλερ είχε ανέβει ήδη στην εξουσία τότε (
Σκεφτείτε ότι ο Μπρεχτ ήταν Γερμανός, γνωστός αντιφασίστας και ότι ο Χίτλερ είχε ανέβει ήδη στην εξουσία τότε (και ο Μπρεχτ είχε ήδη αυτοεξοριστεί στην Ευρώπη) και δείτε με άλλο μάτι τη συνέχεια...Έργο: Περιγράφεται η μάχη του Γαλιλαίου με την Καθολική Εκκλησία όταν, μετά την εφεύρεση του τηλεσκοπίου, το έστρεψε στον ουρανό και παρατήρησε ότι η Γη γυρίζει γύρω από τον Ήλιο, άρα δεν είναι το κέντρο του Σύμπαντος, παρά ένας τυχαίος πλανήτης που πάνω του ζούμε εμείς, άρα οι άνθρωποι δεν είναι τα αγαπημένα τέκνα του Θεού, άρα η Αγία Γραφή έχει προβλήματα.
Dennett argues that religion is a self-reproducing pattern of behavior (a "meme"), and that a martyr is someone who has been taken over by a meme to the point where he is willing to sacrifice his life for his beliefs.
Maybe irrational for the martyr, but perfectly rational from the meme's point of view: the history of religion shows that martyrdom is an effective way for religions to spread.
It seemed to me at the time that this wasn't so clear; even if a given scientific theory may be rational and fact-based, the scientific world-view itself is as arbitrary as a religious one.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Unglücklich das Land, das Helden nötig hat: "Das Leben des Galilei" by Bertold Brecht"Galilei: Ja, wo ist sie jetzt?
Da isteine andere Sonne!Sagredo: Beruhige dich.
Die Kopernikaner?Galilei: Und der andere!
Frau Sarti!Sagredo dreht das Fernrohr weg: Willst du aufhören, wie ein Narr herumzubrüllen?Galilei: Willst du aufhören, wie ein Stockfisch dazustehen, wenn die Wahrheit entdeckt ist?Sagredo: Ich stehe nicht wie ein Stockfisch, sondern ich zittere, es könnte die Wahrheit sein."In "Das Leben des Galilei" by Bertold BrechtI watched this play in 2006 in Lisbon at Teatro Aberto starring Rui Mendes as Galileo.
La storia è quella che tutti sappiamo, delle difficoltà, delle violenze psicologiche (per fortuna solo quelle: a Giordano Bruno è andata peggio) e della umiliazione dell'abiura che Galileo ha dovuto affrontare in nome della nuova scienza, che proprio nell'età moderna si preparava a cambiare il mondo ma soprattutto gli uomini.Quello che c'è di veramente grande in questo libro è che questa volta ad affrontare il secolare tema del rapporto tra scienza e religione è un grande del teatro contemporaneo come Bertolt Brecht.
Young man, I do not eat my cheese absentmindedly.Despite my perforated memory, I can still cling to triumph, most of which are the achievements of others but alas I can still appreciate.
I thought about Brecht at the end of his life this morning while enjoying this masterful narrative.
Did his petty tyranny of the women in his life strike him as abominable?
Galileo as depicted by Brecht is too pragmatic to be disarmed by such pondering.
Aside from the necessity of obsequiousness he recognizes the need of discretion and the effects of The Age of Reason not only on the established order but on human existential orientation.
I needed this play today.
Επιτέλους, πάνω από μια βδομάδα μετά αποφάσισα να γράψω κριτική.Αυτός ήταν ο 2ος Μπρεχτ που διάβασα.Ο πρώτος ήταν η Μάνα Κουράγιο, το 2011.Δεν μ' άρεσε καθόλου.Ο Γαλιλαίος πάλι, μ' άρεσε.Δεν μπορώ να πω ότι τρελάθηκα, αλλά μ' άρεσε.Ειδικά ο τρόπος που στέλνει το μήνυμα στους επιστήμονες για σύνεση στο πώς χειρίζονται τις γνώσεις τους, πχ.
(ευχαριστώ)Υπάρχει κι αυτό που λέμε αποστασιοποίηση των χαραχτήρων απ' τα συμβάντα, και η λιτότητα στα σκηνικά.Στον Γαλιλαίο μ' άρεσε στην Μάνα Κουράγιο όχι.(αυτό μας το 'πες)Όχι, πριν μιλούσα γενικά, τέλος πάντων το επικό θέατρο δεν είναι και τ' αγαπημένο μου.Μ' αρέσει ο ρεαλισμός (Ήταν όλοι τους παιδιά μου) και το θέατρο του παραλόγου (Περιμένοντας τον Γκοντό).(κάτι άλλο;)Όχι αυτά μόνο.Φαίνεται ότι βαριέμαι να γράψω κανονική κριτική.(ναι)3,6 | 7.2/10
È fuor di dubbio anche per il vecchietto ormai costretto al domicilio coatto, che però, abilmente, continua a tramare facendo passare la verità oltreconfine, sotto un mantello… Il testo è impreziosito dalle note Sulla “Vita di Galileo” che permettono di inquadrare l’opera rispetto alle sue tre stesure e alla biografia del drammaturgo e poeta tedesco, rendendo questo gioiello letterario un testo di riflessione etica sul ruolo della scienza nella società, donandoci allo stesso tempo un irrisolto personaggio di straordinaria efficacia, capace di trascendere il tempo.
از گفته و نگفته ي خود ابراز ندامت و توبه مي كند و عقايد خود را انكار مي كند.كاري كه باعث ميشود علم در نطفه خفه شود حتي دكارت فرانسوي را هم به سكوت واميدارد.گاليله ناتوان،تنها و غمگين به روستاي دور افتاده اي در فلورانس تبعيد مي شود و تا دم مرگ همانجا مي ماند.اما آنجا هم دست از كشف حقيقت نميكشد.''برتولت برشت'' از اين زيبا تر نمي توانست زندگي گاليله ي تنها را به صورت نمايشنامه بنويسد تا جايي كه اتفاق ها به صورت زنده و پويا در جلوي چشمم رژه ميرفتند.تقابل علم و سنت،شجاعت و بزدلي،مردي تنها در برابر توده اي از افكار پوسيده،عشق به علم و در عين حال به پول و در نهايت كشف حقيقت و افشاي آن از جمله ويژگي هايي هستند كه برشت به آن ها توجه نموده است.پيام اين نمايشنامه به من اين بود كه انسان ها خودشان مسئول تعيين سرنوشت خودشان هستند و اينكه بدبخت ملتي كه به قهرمان احتياج دارد.
As I finished reading this masterpiece of Brecht, I sat thinking about how to go through everything in this play in one review, it's impossible!This play is absolutely one of the best literary works I've read and will ever read.
I couldn't find anything more appropriate to say about it than Brecht's own words from the play itself."For where belief has prevailed for a thousand years, doubt now prevails.""He who does not know the truth is merely an idiot.
But he who knows it and calls it a lie, is a criminal.""The aim of science is not to open a door to infinite wisdom, but to set a limit to infinite error.""Unhappy the land that is in need of heroes."
Nicht nur scheinen Sie mir die Persönlichkeit Galileis tief erfasst zu haben, sondern auch die Bedeutung seiner Erscheinung in der Entwicklung der Geistesgeschichte und damit in der Geschichte überhaupt.
Auch gibt Ihre Darstellung einen tiefen Einblick in die Problemstellung, wie sie Galilei vorlagen und in die Einstellung der vorgalileischen Wissenschaft zur Erfahrung.
Sie haben es verstanden, einen dramatischen Rahmen zu schaffen, der ungemein fesselnd ist und uns auch durch die starken Beziehungen zu den politischen Problemen der Gegenwart besonders interessieren muss.
Hoffentlich werden es auch die verbildeten Zeitgenossen zu schätzen wissen, was Sie da Vortreffliches hingestellt haben.Freundlich grüßt Sie, IhrAlbert Einstein_______________________Roughly:Dear Mr. Brecht,You have given me enormous pleasure with your "Galileo".
Un testo di forte valenza culturale, storica ed etica, che pone l'attenzione sui doveri degli intellettuali nella lotta per l'affermazione della verità e, con essa, della libertà. Il sapere è per Galileo/Brecht ciò che dovrebbe essere per tutti noi: non un cumulo precostituito di nozioni da usare per controllare il prossimo o per glorificare e autocelebrare se stessi in quanto possessori della verità, ma come uno strumento di progresso che aiuti gli uomini a comprendere gli uomini e a sostenerne i diritti.http://athenaenoctua2013.blogspot.it/...
Life of Galileo is not merely another book about the enraging conflict between science and its mindless counterpart religion, but also about society and in the end life itself.People oft forget that Bertolt Brecht was a Marxist intellectual and his plays not only reflect that but also impersonate his Marxist leanings.
If you believe freedom can be traded for tradition and conservatism has a role to play in our present time, STAY AWAY FROM THE BOOK.
Its 5 out of 5, or even 6 out of 5, if you are like me, an open-minded individual who loves science and freedom!
گالیله انسان عقل گرای عصر نوست، او سعادت گمشده ی جامعه عصر خویش که در فقر دست و پا میزند را در آسمان جستجو نمیکند!!
او به عقل بشریت معتقد است و میگوید باید حقیقت را جستجو کرد *در تابستان و زمستان، دور یا نزدیک، در همه ی طول عمر و پس از آن* و مردم را در دانستن آن شریک کرد،این زمین که قرنها مرکز عالم خوانده شده بود و اسقفان و حاکمان و مالکان در مسند قدرت این نقطه ی برگزیده ی جهان هستی بودند، حالا در خطر منسوخ و معزول شدن از جایگاه خویش بودند!!
Galileo chiede che questi aiuti siano a gratuito patrocinio, per non subire ricatti e/o "commissioni non disinteressate " ( prima o dopo verrà fuori lo scandalo diabete, di cui non si riesce a trovare una cura all'altezza dei tempi solo per favorire le case farmaceutiche con le loro pseudoricerche; lo stesso dicasi per i tumori).Galileo era umano, umanissimo, gran mangiatore, un pò sbruffone e assolutamnte gesuitico: abiura pubblica e privata fedeltà.
L'Italica furbizia!La scienza, quando lo è nei termini ribaditi da Galileo, è sicuramente "anodina"; solo l'uso "politico" delle scoperte le trasforma in una oppressione anziché liberazione.Brecth utilizzava la forma teatro “epico-antiaristotelico", cioè rappresentava miti e drammi del nostro tempo cancellando ogni sorta di emozioni, che non necessitano se non la partecipazione emotiva dello spettatore senza contestualizzazione.
** چهل سال نگاه کردن به رفتار بشر به من یاد داد که اونا با عقل میانه ای ندارن، دم سرخ رنگ یه ستاره دنباله دار رو نشونشون بده و ترس رو به وجودشون بنداز، اونوقت چنان فرار می کنن که کف پاشون به پس گردنشون می خوره، ولی اگه حرف منطقی بهشون زنی و هزار دلیل بیاری، فقط مسخره ات می کنن.** بالاخره انسان همونطور که روی حرکت ستارگان ممکنه اشتباه کنه، از کتاب آسمانی هم میتونه برداشت غلطی داشته باشه!** مگر نگفتم فصل شادی زودگذر است؟دوستان پیش از پایان بهار گل سرخ بچینید** اعتماد موقعی نابود میشه که بخوان تحمیلش کنن** - فکر نمی کنید حقیقت اگه واقعا حقیقت باشه، بدون ما هم خودشو نشون میده؟ -نه نه نه...
There’s a couple of reasons for this: living in London, I prefer to go and see them performed whenever possible, but also I’ve never really thought of drama as a medium that I’d frequently sit down and just read like I would a book.
This is strange because I did English at university where his name was frequently thrown around, usually in the contexts of literary theory, and it’s quite easy to get by (even at a postgraduate level) with only a second-hand knowledge of a subject you bring up in passing.
Bertolt Brecht, Galileo (Grove Press, 1952)Publishers who put out "literature" (perhaps I should capitalize the L) have felt it necessary for the past half-century or so to include long-winded dissections of the texts as a part of their editions.
Here is a man who never let the message overtake the medium, and scads of modern authors could do with repeated readings of this text to get a handle on what it is they're doing wrong.Bentley aside, the play itself is certainly worth the reader's time.
In the “Life of Galileo,” Bertolt Brecht highlights the astronomer’s struggles with the Catholic Church, which opposed his work extending the theories of Copernicus and threatened him with torture.
It is interesting how leading clerics refused his offer to gaze through his primitive telescope, instead insisting on a philosophical dispute, preferably in Latin, about whether what he claimed to see could be true.
The refusal to accept new evidence is an example of the anti-scientific and anti-modern mindset.
Under pressure not to challenge the geocentric Ptolemaic model propagated by the Church, Galileo maintained public silence for eight years.
How could the people in power give free rein to somebody who knows the truth, even if it concerns the remotest stars?
Do you imagine the Pope will hear the truth when you tell him he's wrong, and not just hear that he's wrong?
Just now, when I was watching you at the telescope and you were watching those new stars, it seemed to me I was watching you stand on blazing faggots; and when you said you believed in proof I smelt burnt flesh.
I am fond of science, my friend, but I am fonder of you.
Don't go to Florence, Galileo."
I thoroughly enjoyed this play! I have to admit that this is a pleasant surprise because I normally dread the books I'm assigned to read for university. Since this is part of my required reading (and I have to write a lot of about it in class), I am not going to write a full review for it here. Instead, here are some of my favourite quotes from the text:  “Listen to me: someone who doesn't know the truth is just thick-headed. But someone who does know it and calls it a lie is a crook.”“...I beli
I thoroughly enjoyed this play!
I have to admit that this is a pleasant surprise because I normally dread the books I'm assigned to read for university.
Since this is part of my required reading (and I have to write a lot of about it in class), I am not going to write a full review for it here.
“Listen to me: someone who doesn't know the truth is just thick-headed.
But someone who does know it and calls it a lie is a crook.”“...I believe in Humanity, which means to say I believe in human reason.
this is getting ridiculous!every book I read in 2016 is so good that I can't avoid giving 5 stars,lol. will be back with a review.
