https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1062544.The_Mad_God_s_Amulet

But it did remind me that it was ages since I'd read Dorian Hawkmoon's first adventure, so it was about time I moved on to the second.
Which seems crazy when you think that the novel's first publication was closer to the Second World War than to now.There's a lot here you couldn't get away with in a modern novel - too many of the plot beats have been run into the ground by all the fantasy novels and RPGs that Moorcock influenced - but the original is still a heady little entertainment.
A fun and classic fantasy book. Moorcock tells a sweeping, fast-paced tale. It's as enjoyable as the first book in the series, and the story is less choppy. This book adds a wry Frenchman and "mutant war jaguars" into the mix. You can't go wrong with those two additions.
While the Hawkmoon books may not be quite so well known as the Elric novels and may not be quite as developed (though I'm not sure I agree with the last myself) they are probably my favorite part of Moorcock's Eternal Champion Cycle.
I have the omnibus volumes but my first read of them were the paperback individual books.
This one is actually a bit later than the volume I read I believe, but same cover.I love these books, and I have read them over, and over....over the years.
I have a prejudice in favor of this particular part of the Eternal Champion Cycle I suppose, but...they're still good reads.
This world of runestaff granbretan is awesome, but story can be plodding.Lots of suprises help, with some sort of hakey enemies.......I wanted this series to have a better plot.....Star wars seems to have stolen most of the ideas.....from this...............brilliant in flashes..................I wonder if he let someone ghost write this....not as densely atmouspheric as elric series...moorcock when he is on is best author in history.....challenged only by robert e howard, jack vance, ae van vogt
I know Moorcock has previously commented that many of his early works were essentially knocked out over a weekend to pay the rent (and I'm certainly not knocking him for that).But, this is a four book set, and this second book is suffering from feeling like a placeholder in the story (as a note the start of book 3 is already much better).
Not that these books were big on characterization, but there is zero character work done here, and a whole lot of Hero's Journey stuff does take place (arguably necessary to move the entire story along).Some would likely call this sword and sorcery, and Moorcock's U.S. fame started nearly the same time as REH's resurgence in bookstores (yes, I'm that old).
Nice plot, decent action, not too long.
http://panopticonitalia.blogspot.it/2...The amulet of the mad god is the second volume of the saga of Rune Magic published on the British market in 1968 by Lancer Books under the title "Sorcerer's Amulet"; while in Italy it was published only in 1978 by the publisher Longanesi.This novel (like the above) presents the typical elements of sword and sorcery, the science fantasy and clockpunk, while some commentators today do not hesitate to call grimdark fantasy.Take it with pliers these classifications, since the book in question is difficult to impose a single genre.As for the story, Dorian Hawkmoon is fresh from a victory over Meladius to Hamadan and is preparing to return from Count Brass (and Ysselda) in Kamarg, along with Oladahn.
Originally published on my blog here in May 1999.The second of the four Runestaff books begins with the hero, Dorian Hawkmoon, in Persia where he has travelled to rid himself of the Black Jewel which betrays his every move to the Dark Empire of Granbretan.
He has to begin to puzzle out the mysterious plans of the Warrior in Jet and Gold, servant of the even more mysterious Runestaff, who appears at intervals to help Hawkmoon.The Mad God's Amulet - named after the jewel which gave the Mad God his power but also maddened him since he was not the one destined to own it - is really an interlude in the history of the Runestaff.
Some of Moorcock's works are sublime, subtle, and quite literary; others are real stinkers.
The gap in quality between this book and, say, The War Hound and the World's Pain, written in 1981, is so huge as to disprove the old adage, "you either have it or you don't." Apparently, writerly skill can be learned, can improve tremendously with practice.
In fact, it might be possible to align the development of Moorcock's career with the evolution of genre fiction itself: what began in naivety, shallowness, and sensationalism has deepened into a medium capable of subtlety and real literary merit.
Another Eternal Champion incarnation from Moorcock. After Elric and Corum Hawkmoon is great. Of course as usual the Eternal Champion is a long suffering tragic hero. I am sure that Moorcock has some Greek in him somewhere. Good read and story. Very recommended.
I thought the second book in this series was much better than the first one. The setting is pretty gonzo and has really grown on me.
I like the Runestaff books the best of Moorcock's series, if you consider the Count Brass books to be part of that. There's a more brutal turn to the stories here than with Elric.
un superbe livre signé moorcock. on retrouve bien la patte de l'écrivain. l'univers crée est vraiment sympathique et nouq transporte. l'histoire ne traine pas en longueur et meme s'il n'est pas parfait on prends beaucoup de plaisir à le lire et à imaginer les différents masques des chevaliers de l'empire.
goodness and madnessDorian is journeying to have the black jewel in his forehead nullified. he has heard there is a magician who can perform this. but the distance is measured in months. he will stop at nothing to return to the one he loves. in his travels he collects the oddest assortment of companions, but whether they can return home safely is another matter.
GOOD SHIT.
Old fashioned sword and sorcery. The character of D'Averc is interesting.
Very good adventure! Neat continuation of the Hawk Moon saga and had plenty of fun while reading it.
Great readSo happy this finally made its way to kindle. It dark fantasy at its best from one of the best.
After we followed our hero Dorian Hawkmoon of Köln from the Camargue to Persia (or rather, this series’ twisted versions of those places) in The Jewel in the Skull, The Mad God’s Amulet, in a neat bit of symmetry, takes us from Persia back to the Camargue, thus making the first half of the tetralogy a closed circle.In fact, The Mad God’s Amulet does read more like the second half of The Jewel in the Skull than a novel by itself (something that will be repeated for volume 3 and 4 of the series), so generally we get more of the same of what Moorcock served up in the earlier volume, and just as tasty a dish: Again a conventional quest adventure (this time even including a damsel in distress) is embellished and garlanded by the products of Moorcock’s fertile bizarre imagination until it is barely recognisable.
"Hanno il potere," gli disse Hawkmoon in confidenza; un romanzo in cui la trama progredisce per pura casualità (Hawkmoon per puro caso trova l'anello di Ysselda sulla nave del Dio Pazzo e questo lo spinge ad andare a confrontarlo); un romanzo in cui esiste un personaggio, il cavaliere in Giaietto e Oro, che ha il solo scopo di fornire quest al protagonista, fornendogli di volta in volta una parafrasi di: "Tu devi fare questo e quest'altro perché la trama dice così"; ecco, un romanzo del genere di norma non finirei neanche di leggerlo.
Hawkmoon then makes his way back across the continent towards Kamarg, stopping off en-route to rescue his beloved Yisselda from the Mad God of the title and to reunite the stolen amulet with its rightful owner - him.
He encounters the mysterious Warrior in Jet and Gold again (who tells him of the importance of the amulet and aids him in his victory).
En route to Kamarg, he is betrayed and captured by the Dark Empire army and discovers that the evil Baron Meliadus did not die at his hands at the end of the previous book after all.
Hawkmoon, attempting to return to Castle Brass which is under siege by the forces of Granbretan, finds himself captured by Huillam D’Averc, is given a mysterious crystal mechanism by the wraith-folk of Soryandum, who live on a slightly different plane, and is enjoined by the Warrior in Jet and Gold to seek out the Mad God, after Hawkmoon and D’Averc (now Hawkmoon’s ally) capture one of the raiding ships of the Cult of the Mad God.Yisselda, it appears, has been captured by the MG and Hawkmoon must take his amulet and rescue her before he can return to Castle Brass.It is the amulet which has driven its owner mad.
Hawkmoon, with the immediate dangers of the first novel neutralized, wants nothing more than to return to the Kamarg and his friends.
All of which, of course, happens at the same time that the full might of Granbretan's army marches on the Kamarg, the last European outpost of independence against the depraved King-Emperor Huon.Fun stuff.
I despair, at this point, of any legibility at all by the time I make it to the seventh book in the series.Look for corrected editions, but definitely read this series.
I just now realized what it was -- my favorite character from the first Hawkmoon volume!
Hawkmoon's mood lightened up from the first book, but not enough to compensate.Regardless, I really enjoyed this story.
Hawkmoon travels east through this alternate version of Eurasia, in search of his kidnapped love.*le sigh*But cliche'd plots aside, the story moves along at a good pace, there's mistrust and betrayal among friends, very interesting new environments for the heroes, scenes of sneakery where I actually worried they'd get caught...fun stuff.
Para una visión general, remitirse a mi opinión del libro anterior (The Jewel in the Skull).Aquí se introducen elementos interesantes, como el culto al "Dios Loco". Sin embargo, Hawkmoon queda como un perfecto egoísta a quien le importa un pepino los inocentes, ya que, en una escena clave, los manda a enfrentarse con un ejército mucho más numeroso sólo para poder salvar su asqueroso pellejo.Se introduce un personaje interesante: Huillan D'Averc, un caballero hipocondríaco redimido (antes pertenecía al bando de los malvados).Y eso. El libro sigue teniendo las deficiencias de su antecesor.
Moorcocks's inventiveness never ceases to amaze.
The number of incidents, characters, places, bits of kit that he comes up is unceasing.
And so, this book: trust is the watchword, and we are placed in situation where Dorian fails to trust important characters (some with good reason!), but the ending has been foreshadowed in earlier places.
I am left wondering what will occur to end this series of books: if Dorian is allowed to get his beloved homeland back, will Yisselda join him, or will they both take over Castle Brass instead?
And will he find peace as a farmer and father, or will he leave and travel for adventure?
This is the tale of how Hawkmoon returned from the east to his adopted home of kamarg, and his adventures in the lands between.Just as much heroics, betrayal, strange science-sorcery as the last, but a little too much 'coincidence explained by plans' of a supernatural power... (Dropped from 5 to 4 stars for me)I love the apparent speed of the narrative - only enough of the scene is described to let you know what is there, and recognise things, but not so much it slows down these of the action. Love it.
Swaggering swordsmanshipHawkmoon’s second outing follows much the same paradigm as that established in the first in the series. It’s a rip-roaring yarn that eschews character depth and profundity in favour of action and adventure. And on that level it succeeds a little better than the first in that the story here is a tad more satisfying. Once again The Duke of Köln battles it out with the dastardly empire of Granbretan in the far-flung future where science and sorcery have melded and strange creatures roam the lands. Plain, simple, but imaginative fun.
I liked this book, it was a bit weaker than its predecessor which was awesome, but just the same it was good.
The ending though was not so much foreshadowed as clearly obvious a few chapters before the end of the book which is my only real gripe, that and the lack of anything new in the way of technology or concepts like in the first novel but it in no way keeps this from being a great story, better than most fantasy fiction out now.
Moorcock truly is a master of the genre and yes, I'm starting on the next book, ASAP.
