https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1397878.All_This_and_Heaven_Too
In my all time top ten.
Written by her grand-daughter in the 1930's it tells the tale of a woman who is an unwilling part of a murder in Paris, then moves to New York City for a second chance.
"If there had been someone to turn to, some one for me to lean on.""Listen to me." The sharp old eyes blinked fiercely out of their nest of wrinkles.
"You'll never find that, so stop wasting your time for a shoulder to lean on.""But other people have comfort.
Why shouldn't I?""Because your shoulders were made for them to lean on.
An oak may not turn into a strawberry plant for the wishing."
This is just a good, old-fashioned historical novel similar in style and scope to works like Katherine and Gone with the Wind.It's based on the true story of the author's French great aunt (through marriage only), Henriette Desportes.
Field re-imagines Henriette's life, from the time she was a 28 year old governess travelling back to her native France in the 1840's, until her death as the wife of Henry Field in New England in the 1870's.
Being a reader who enjoys the slower pace of these older novels, it was an entertaining read, and I'm glad this oldie has been republished for a new audience.
I first read this book 30 years ago, and thought it was wonderful.
For one thing, it's built around a very romanticized portrait of a real guy who (we are given to presume) killed his wife.
Bummer that he did that, but he's really cute and the wife was kind of depressed and miserable and no fun to be around so she clearly had it coming.
It's based on a real person and maybe she did meet all those people, but the writing makes it feel artificial.
Henri, he is America."This is a fabulous example of "the movie is better than the book."
Henriette Desportes is 28 years old when the novel opens in 1841.
Henriette has secured a position teaching a prominent family’s youngest children.
The children find it easy to love their governess because they are terrified of their mother.Time and trials make Henriette aware of the strife between the oft-hysterical Duchess and her long-suffering husband.
including mistreated husbands.The book has romance without being a romance novel.
It’s more the romance provided by setting — say, attending a dance or a fancy party — and the love of a way of life — than love for a particular person.
Several things I had read about it previously mentioned the main character's, Henriette Desportes', involvement in a famous murder in 19th century France.
This is not a book about a murder, but about a woman making her own way in the mid-19th century.
Henriette is a wonderful character--a smart, single woman who doesn't have many options in 1840s Europe.
And her husband is part of a fascinating family--friends with the movers and shakers and thinkers of the mid-19th century.Through it all, Henriette is just fascinating, made all the more intriguing because this book has its roots in history.
After the Duc savagely murdered his wife, Henriette defended herself before the Chancellor of France in a sensational murder trial that helped bring down the French king.
I loved learning the details of the American history she lived through, including her brother-in-law's laying of the first telegraph cable from the USA to Europe.
201When questioned in court (and she refused a lawyer): “All her life she had loved words and kindled to them, but now she was in their power.
They are given freely or not at all.” “Oh, well, it might look like a patterned world, laid out in prim design, but to those living there it could never be so simple.
I really felt for the heroine Henriette who returns to France as a governess to the Duc of Praslin's children.A jealous wife with tragic consequences.A murder and a suicide where Henriette has to plead her case.When released she makes a new life in America.This was actually a true story written by Rachel Field.Written in the 1930's and was also turned into a lavish movie starring Bette Davis.This historical romance is full of passion mystery and intrigue.Well worth a read.I loved it.
Rachel Field, the author of the children's book Hitty, has written a wonderful story of her Great-aunt, Henriette Desportes/Deluzy.
A book filled with events concerning her aunt as well as a history of the times - in France and America.
The second half of the book tells of her life in American and the many well-known people of the time that intersected with her life.
It is a book to savor - not one to page through quickly.
I so seldom give even four stars for a book, so this for me is a real winner!
Could never be as good as the book!
I picked this up for a song because I recalled my mother LOVED the movie with Bette Davis.
Based on a true story, which makes it more interesting to begin with, it is beautifully written, and I agree that the first half is more compelling.
But Henriette is a very likable heroine, she deserves to be happy, so I persevered and read to the end.
I enjoyed the depictions of 19th century Paris as well as New York and Massachusetts.
I just picked up a biography of Margaret Fuller and it occurred to me that she might have written about the scandal Henriette was involved in.
I made it halfway through this book, but I just don't think I have another 300-pages-worth of interest in it. The author drags the story out way too much—sometimes it felt as if the five years the governess spent with the family were being narrated in real time—and I just don't care for the characters enough to stick with it. Henriette is ridiculously idealized, the Duc is weak and unappealing, and their love story is too tepid to make up for these deficiencies. I'll stick to the Bette Davis version. Did not finish.
Nagyon nagyon szerettem átélni a korok harcát, Henriette életét, csodálatos regény. Mert 'minden ember azt látja benne ami önmagában van'.
Those people out there, if they caught sight of her own face pressed close to the windowpane, might be speculating about her.
To them she was part of the pattern of the lumbering train with its trail of smoke and the little boxlike carriages.”“For most of us one book is not enough to satisfy our minds, and so one life is not enough either.
It is too much to ask, perhaps, but I want to get behind the faces of men and women and feel what they are feeling.” “And Henriette, who had dreaded the day, found herself moved by the sight of these generations that filled the rooms with a great press of life.
Sadly, I found Field's writing style somewhat dull.
The book started well, with Henriette moving to Paris and taking a job in a troubled royal household.
Field does do a good job describing locations, little details about Paris, etc.
But I think the biggest problem is that Rachel Field does not write dialog with much pizazz, so she says that the Duchess was angry and abusive to her children or husband, or to Henriette the governess, rather than letting us hear and see the things that presumably make the Duchess so unlikeable.
This is the third “governess story” I’ve read this year, (along with “Dragonwyck” and “Jane Eyre”), this one based on the true story and scandal of Rachel Field’s great aunt, Henriette Desportes.
She was the governess to the children of the Duc and Duchesse de Praslin in 1840’s Paris, a good teacher and a loving companion.
The Duc had let it be known that Henriette was to follow his instructions in the care of the children; the Duchesse cared little for them and really only for her own needs and desires.
When the Duchesse is murdered, Henriette is suspected, and the scandal rocked the city of Paris and eventually brought down the government.
It is based on the true story of one of the most notorious murder cases in French history.
The murder of the Duchess de Praslin by her husband.
Henriette Deluzy-Desportes was governess to their children and she was drawn into the case by the letters that the Duchess had written accusing her of unduly influencing her husband and children.
The book was written by Henriette's great niece (by marriage) and is an account of Henriette's life from the time she was governess to the Duc and Duchess de Praslin to the time of her death in America.
Originally published in 1939 (and subsequently made into a film starring Bette Davis) this novel tells the story of a woman who was a governess in France in the mid-19th century and got caught up in a scandal when she was accused of a murder she did not commit.
Our heroine emigrates to America where she has to contend with a very unfamiliar lifestyle amongst prim New Englanders: there are some very funny scenes as she tries to fit in and gets everything wrong.
I can't remember exactly how I came to own a copy of this book, but I think I picked it up in a thrift shop many years ago, and recognized it as the source material for the Bette Davis film of the same name.Field is better known as the Newbery-winning author of Hitty: Her First Hundred Years.
It's been a long time since I read All This, and Heaven Too; I didn't remember that Field was writing about her own relative (by marriage) and her own famous family in the novel.
Field fails to win any points for style--to me, it's very obvious that this is a novel of its time in a way that isn't necessarily positive.
Fascinating fictionalized account of one of France's great murders in the 1800s.
Henriette Desportes becomes governess for the wealthy Praslin household and gets stuck in the midst of the Duc and Duchesse's marital problems.
My one issue with this book is that the author wants Henriette to be completely blameless, so some of H's actions are a little vague as to motivation.I was FASCINATED to learn that the Duc apparently FAKED his own suicide and then escaped to London.
At some point he fled to Nicaragua and raised a whole other family of little Praslins.
I first saw the Bette Davis film of this same title and had no idea it was based on a book which in turn was based on a true story of a French governess that was caught up in the Duc de Praslin's murder of his duchess, a scandal that was to a significant degree responsible for the king's dethroning.
I'm now off to read 'A Crime of Passion' by Stanley Loomis, a nonfiction look at the same characters to counterbalance the obvious prejudice of this book in favor of the governess--I'm intrigued to see if I'll judge it the same way.
Great book! Imagine being the author, Rachel Field, and having a great-aunt like Henriette Desportes to write about. It seems as though her life cried out for this book to be written. Rachel Field has created a brilliant novelization of her life and turbulent times, based on facts, research, family anecdotes and memorabilia, and a keen sense of the kind of woman she was, strong, truthful, brave and vivid. The novel was the basis for a film starring Bette Davis and Charles Boyer. I can't wait to see it!
This was one of those books that caught my eye on a bookshelf at a local bookstore and as soon as I pulled it off the shelf I knew I couldn't leave the store without this book in hand.
I don't know...it was just one of those things.
It is a narrative biography of Henriette Desportes and her story surrounding the Praslin murder scandal in France in the 1840s.
Totally cool French history wrapped into the life of this amazing woman.
The writing is sophisticated, but not difficult and the 600someodd pages go pretty quickly with a focused read.
Loved this one!!
This book has a split personality. The first half is very engrossing and interesting. The second half is very boring and I just scanned through most of it. I wonder whatever happened to the children, but it doesn't say much about that. I wonder just how very innocent she really was in life, the book is definitely written from that angle. If this were two books, I would give the first half 4 stars and the last part 1 or 2.
This story is based on the true life of the author's great aunt in the 1840s. It is one of the best books that I've read in a long time. The heroine is Henriette Deluzy-Desportes, governess of the ill-fated household of the Duke and Duchess de Praslin. This was so good. I love this author. I loved that the book was written in the 1930s.
A meticulously detailed book about a demure, destitute woman who becomes a governess and engenders the wrath of her mistress, the childrens' mother. A handsome film was made of the first half of the book with Bette Davis. Fans of that will enjoy reading how the rest of the story plays out, though it is decidely not as exciting.
I loved this book! That kind of historical fiction that I adore! It had a message, things to ponder after reading the book, a really charismatic and unique female protagonist (with whom I could kind of identify myself)... so it was a nice piece of literature, yet it had a really nice, eventful plot.
I liked the idea of this book a little more than the actual book. The great part is the book has that old Hollywood "feel" to it but it also takes patience to get through the plot. The actual murder (main plot point) does not happen until a little more than 1/3 of the way through the 600 pages. There's a 1940s movie version with Bette Davis playing Henriette I cannot wait to see.
They are playing this movie for free next semester on the first floor of our library and I thought that I would read the book beforehand, just for kicks. It's about a nanny that has an affair with the guy - scandalous!
Henriette is a governess for the children of the Duc and Duchess de Praslin. The Duc falls in love with Henriette and leads to tragedy. Soon after Henriette moves to America and rebuilds her life there.
This was an amazing read. I so thoroughly enjoyed it. Then, I found out it's a true story...WOW! If you like historical books. You will love this.
I found this book at the library after watching the Bette Davis movie of the same name. I thought it was a well written, historical fiction novel based on an actual event that occurred in France.
