https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229149.Cardcaptor_Sakura
Another new and mysterious character appears. His name is Eriol. And I don't like him.
It is getting very interesting since new characters are starting to appear (I already knew them from the anime adaptation, though). Still nice to see them again. PD: Please could Tomoyo be more adorable? I love her.
Eriol tiene más cara de malo que de misterioso.
When asked what my favorite manga-ka is, I'd have to say CLAMP without a moment's hesitation.
When asked what my favorite manga by CLAMP is, though, I hesitate.
The main character is wonderful, delightful, and so strong, her supporting cast is memorable and beautiful.
And this manga does present lots of different types of love - whether it be between a girl and a boy, two boys, two girls, unrequited, May/December, Human/Supernatural, or eternal...
It's so wonderful to watch Sakura grow into the heroine she is, to watch all those around her grow and change as well.
When I was younger I watch the anime for this manga and I adored it.Now after reading it I can't help but love it more!I would say this is one of the rare true childrens manga out there that can be read by all ages.
Dude, the last time I read this book was YEARS AGO.
YEEEEEEEEEARS AGO, meaning the 5th grade.And I'm a freshman in high school right now, so that's saying something, right??But I do remember Cardcaptor Sakura.
And I liked this series, especially the MOTC series.Since I can't remember EVERY SINGLE BIT of Cardcaptor Sakura: MOTC, I will try to make this review short and snappy.
(And...I have to read like 18 other books and one of them is due to my school library TOMORROW!!!!
HYAH!So basically, this book was adorable.
It's also extremely original and I've never read a book like it!!
I LOVE IT!!!So basically the story is originally original.
I love Cardcaptor Sakura, which is why I want to be honest about my opinion that this volume is lacking. It spends almost the entire time setting up the premise for certain events and not nearly enough time with the events itself. What saves it from a two star rating is the fact that no matter how dismal a scene is, the characters are brilliantly written and their complex relationships are endearing. I hope I find the next volume to be more of a classic fun Cardcaptor story.
Good...but not great.
(out loud) ...it doesn't seem like I just met him for the first time...
Hiiragizawa...Eriol: Me, neither.Sakura: (surprised) H-Hiiragizawa!Eriol: Oh, I'm sorry to surprise you.
It doesn't feel like I'm meeting you for the first time, either...Sakura: It's rather strange.Eriol: Maybe we've met before.
Perhaps we've met each other before we were born.These are my favorite note from this volume: - Eriol has come to the school.
- Kero's longing feeling for his previous master.- And Suppi's arrival, my cutie pie one (sorry Kero), can't wait for next volume when Kero will force him with the sweet food.
It had been a while since I had read Sakura's book and I really missed it.
I can't wait to see what will happen in the next book.
I will probably read it later in the day since I have it with me.
It reminds me of my youth.Ça faisait un bon moment que je n'avais pas lu de livre de Sakura et ça ma vraiment manqué.
J'ai vraiment hâte de voir ce qui se produira dans le prochain tome.
Je vais probablement le lire plus tard dans la journée étant donné que je l'ai avec moi.
J'aime tellement le personnage de Sakura.
Fun cutsy girly magical girl manga with innocent romance and fantasy
Amo a Syaoran <3
Las cosas se estan poniendo color de hormiga. Estoy ansiosa por ver que pasa
I enjoyed this first installment to this series. I found the first 6 volumes for twenty cents a piece at a thrift store. What a deal for such good manga.
I’m not sure if it’s just me or the book makes it obvious but once Eriol is introduced you know he’s Clow Reed’s reincarnation.
What’s really interesting is the similarities between Sakura’s guardians Yue and Ceroberus and Eriol’s guardians Ruby Moon and Spinel Sun.
(By the way, does anyone think it’s interesting that Yue and Ceroberus’s wings are angels but Ruby Moon and Spinel Sun have butterfly wings.
The characters and story may not be very complex but it’s not supposed to be.
Omg, this is such a huge improvement from the previous novels!
In this volume, a mysterious, new, and age-appropriate character makes an appearance - Eriol!
Things are going out of control between Sakura's magic and a mysterious new magical force.
And Li has a crush on Sakura!
Yay!I have much higher hopes for the rest of this series now :')----------------------------------------------My reviews for the rest of the series:Volume 1 Volume 2Volume 3Volume 4Volume 5Volume 6Volume 7 (Master of the Clow, Vol 1)Volume 8 (Master of the Clow, Vol 2)Volume 9 (Master of the Clow, Vol 3)Volume 10 (Master of the Clow, Vol 4)Volume 11 (Master of the Clow, Vol 5)Volume 12 (Master of the Clow, Vol 6)
Wooo!
Things have gotten interesting!
I think I get who this Eriol punk is, but I hate him anyway.
He's just that typical nice-to-face-but-trying-to-kill-you-secretly character.
Plus, he's got the boring nerdy look and no thanks to that in most circumstances.
My favorite part was in this volume was when Sakura was asking Yue if he remembers the things that happen to Yukito since Yukito doesn't remember being Yue...
It was the BEST AWKWARD MOMENT~!<3 xD It gave me a belly laugh and a doki doki all at once.(yes, I'm annoyed w/myself for being all hanyan over manga characters again....I feel I've grown down instead of up..
Well, it looks like Clow Reed is back just he threatened, in the form of a young boy named Eriol.
His motives and goals aren't apparent yet, but I think he might be attacking Sakura so that she transforms the cards, which he will then be able to steal and use once they're more powerful.
It's pretty obvious that he's evil because he has dark version of Cerebus and Yue, who are starting to cause problems as well.
Ruby Moon, who takes passive form as a highschool girl, is stalking Toya in what looks like an attempt to steal him from Yukito/Yue. She's super obnoxious though so I dout that Toya will pay her much attention.
Although this is marked as the first in a series, it is actually the continuation of  .For my review or rather comments regarding Cardcaptor Sakura, please see here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....PS - I like "The Master of the Clow" part of Cardcaptor Sakura. We meet Eriol, learn more about Clow Reed & the past, and most importantly, Sakura & Syaoran's relationship begins to grow.
I love all of Cardcaptor Sakura.
It was one of those series that got into manga/anime, back in elementary school.
I remember taping episodes of the horrible English dub on VHS over the weekend and obsessively rewatching them during the week.
The volumes published in English under the title "Master of the Clow" are the strongest by far and a great reread.Eriol, Ruby Moon and Spinel Sun are some of my favorite characters, period.
I love the way Eriol brings out all of Li's possessive tendencies.
I love that Toya is staring to figure things out.
And Sakura is as adorable as ever.
On one hand, Sakura's battles in this series seem to be higher-stakes as her magic has become more powerful, but this isn't Harry Potter - we know she's going to win and that everything is going to turn out all right. The focus of this sweet series is on the excellently-drawn relationships among the characters. Never syrupy or sappy, Sakura's friends, family, teachers, and even her estranged grandfather are shown as good people who are a source of strength for her and each other. This is one of the few manga series I'll actually read over and over again!
Reading this was like a wave of nostalgia. As a kid who watched the anime, this really made me happy as it picked off just before where I left off (in the anime of course).Eriol is introduced, and he's always been a strange favourite of mine, especially Yue and Yukito. I'm quite glad for these characters to have appeared. There is still a lot I don't know about the series, so I can't wait to read the rest!
- This picks up right after the first series ends.- Does Tomoya have a crush on Sakura? I'm confused.- I can't believe what is going on with the new kids in town! Craziness!- I liked the bit about a Teddy Bear's birthday! So cute! I'm going to start giving birthdays to teddy bears. - I liked Sakura's last costume.
Eriol's cute! And devious! And I love blushing Li-kun! Though I have to wonder why Eriol's so cruel to Shaolan when basically, Shaolan is his... uh, grandson? Interesting. Also, every time Toya opened his mouth to tell Yukito... something... someone interrupted them. It was so frustrating! Looking forward to vol. 8!
DUDE. DUDE. DUDE.I read this in maybe 2nd grade, and it got me started on anime and manga. The art is adorable, the storyline is cute, and every book gives you an important lesson that 5th grader Sakura has learned along her journey along becomeing a magical girl(??)Also I don't think anybody dies like puelli madoka magica.puelli madoka magica was just sad
Qué sorpresa, una vez más descubro que no tengo marcados la mitad de series que juraría haber readeado hace bocha. Y, como siempre, copipasteo una reseña pedorra y genérica que no dice nada para disminuir el riesgo de que barran con todo otra vez.Pero que conste que la serie en general me pareció muy divertida, creo recordar.
See my review of Card Captor Sakura Volume 1.
Fantastic series! Extremely entertaining to read and understand! Adorable illustrations too. I was brought up with the English 'cardcaptors' dub, so it's very interesting reading the original English manga, which has not be censored.
This volume gets one fewer star than the others because it was depressing as hell. I'm really not into Tomoyo being silently and sadly in love with Sakura forever. that element of the story has stopped being cute.
