https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33756.The_Cinderella_Deal
As fortunate, I found myself liking both Daisy and Linc and their mutual maturation through the course of the story—after subtracting about ten years from their stated ages .
okay so the surrounding story wasn't very solid and I'm trying to justify liking it so dang much!Was it the humor?
Even so, her strength with wit and humor and simply charming characters stands out and I was completely along for the entire ride.A note about Steamy: This was middle-road steam even if there was only one explicit scene and not a lot of extraneous kissing or fooling around.
The Cinderella Deal is a straight-forward romance, minus the secondary characters and complicated mystery plots in Crusie's later books.
Daisy and Linc are both likable and very typical of Crusie's characters (him/straight-laced and her/bohemian).
Even the pets developed their own personalities.The banter between Daisy and Linc was entertaining and the sexual tension between the two had me glued to this book from the get-go.
I was so fascinated by the details of Daisy's paintings that I put the book down long enough to research Lizzie Borden.
I loved, loved this book. There is the fairytaile-y feeling, the romance is deep, there is humor, and two strays cats and a stray dog, what more can you ask?The love-hate initial relationship is great and the development of the love story is even better. I would definitely recommend this book.
He practically think that Daisy is 'plain' (He needed a … a wifely-looking woman.
Let's see, Linc starts to like her because he thinks "Daisy Blaise.
My wife, the adult." Oh yes, there goes Daisy's personality (which I realize is not even good to start with, considering she likes Lincoln for his body -- wait, maybe they do belong to one another) as she becomes (the boring) Daisy Blaise instead of Daisy Flattery.I even feel mad for myself because I actually finish this.
Adored this book, really romantic. I don't know how to explain it, but the style was different... somewhat old fashioned...profound!I loved it.I also love stories that start as a love/hate relationship.
1.5 stars This is a story that i can't even complaint on how much it disappointed me...I picked it up because i just wanted a nice, fast read to just "cleanse" my mind for the next "earth shattering" story that happened to come my way!So yes, i just wanted something fluffy to read! Something that would just leave me with a stupid smile on my face, and that i would mostly forgot in the following week.... o_OInstead i got a novel capable of rousing my inner feminist...not that she needs being rous
Of course she is the artsy type, and she has all the adjacent stereotypes that come with this role.But check this out:She is so AMAZING, that she's even capable of predicting when she will get sick, so she takes care of all the bills, and of all the things that had to be done, in order for the poor little dark, brooding, sexy husband of hers won't have to overtire himself!!Isn't she wonderful???
Her transformation makes him want her but he knows she is a hurricane while he is all dull and boring, the heroine finds him stifling, he reminds her of her father who she can never impress, she does like his body though.
I loved how their marriage started out, both try to hide they have the hots for each other, the adjustment they had to go through and how Daisy transformed his life for the better without his knowing.
I loved the end when Daisy transformed herself into what Linc thought he wanted and he ended up hating it and hated thinking what he would have become, had she not come into his life.
Easy read - just what I needed.
The characters did not rush into a romantic relationship.
It actually took a while for them both to overcome prejudices about each other.
H is uptight with a lot of baggage and expectations.
h has baggage as well - but keeps trying to overcome.
Side characters are great and I like how the h brings perspective and color into the H's life.
She is just what he needs against his better judgement.
h makes quite a few concessions but she grows from it.
H comes to appreciate and love her.
His life is richer for it.
Lincoln, who was next to them, couldn't help but overhear her predicament and came up with a proposition.
Daisy was to pretend to be his fiancée, so that he could land a job at Prescott.
They agreed that after Daisy helped him get the job, they would part ways and never see each other again.
Lincoln flew back to get Daisy back, only to find her ex-boyfriend wanting to get back with her.
I have a test tomorrow and when I was doing last-minute revision, I kept thinking of this book.
Thank goodness my studying paid off, and I got to read such a great, awesome book!
However, this time I simply listened to the last 2 hours of the book while sitting quietly with my eyes shut.
Linc turns out to be a great hero, and Daisy is equally wonderful.This book is different than the other lighthearted contemporaries I've read by Jennifer Crusie, although Bet Me had some serious moments.
This story about two mismatched people trying to work things out could have been simply another zany tale of opposites attracting, clashing, and finally getting it right.
But for Linc and Daisy, getting it right was at times a painful experience.
And Linc's not the perfect and good saviour.
At the risk of sounding cheesy, my heart is still fluttering.Daisy is the quintessential artist who lives totally free of any kind of mandates of society.
He's always sharply dressed, lives a completely disciplined and organised life.
Her stories, her feelings are so true that as a reader, one gets heavily invested in how her life turns out to be.
Even Linc, who is often disapproving of how different and odd Daisy is according to his own standards of life, is never someone you hate.
Linc is in a spot of trouble, and he needs his neighbor Daisy’s help.
The dean at the college where Linc hopes to teach is enchanted by Daisy, but soon things escalate out of hand.
Now it seems Linc really needs a wife to have any chance at being a full professor.
Still, this story is a quick and entertaining tale and the characters are delightful.
There is not much substance in this tale, just a bit of consciousness raising, but if you are in the mood for something light an fluffy, this is it.
3  stars. Fluffy, enjoyable, light romance. The characters were stereotypes but fun. It’s a nice little escape.STORY BRIEF:Daisy is an artist; she paints pictures. She also tells stories at local libraries and book stores. She buys clothes and furniture at thrift shops. Her home is full of color. She adopts damaged dogs and cats. She’s desperately in need of a thousand dollars for back rent and other necessities.Linc is Daisy’s neighbor. He drives a black Porsche which Daisy calls the nazimobile
He wants a teaching job at Prescott College which would give him time to finish writing a book.
During the job interview Dr. Crawford (dean of humanities at Prescott College) makes it clear that Linc be married.
Therefore, Linc tells Crawford he is engaged.
Linc hires Daisy to pose as his fiancé for 24 hours to meet Crawford.
She agrees for $1,000.After Linc gets the job and starts working, he informs Crawford that he and Daisy broke up.
Soon into their relationship Linc was falling for Daisy and desired her sexually.
If you don’t mind that, it’s a fun story.I noticed another reviewer was unhappy with Daisy being self-absorbed.
[April 1st, 2018: Cut-price on Amazon.]I hope for something more (after Agnes and the Hitman, here is my review) but still, I have had a nice time.It was funny.And this was a romance with a little deeper view into human nature.But to me, there was no space for a evolving love.
I felt that first I had: "they don't like each other" and then: "they love each other but don't know it is mutual".
Probably she will never be for me so good like Kristen Higgins, but still I think I will enjoy her romances.
3.75 stars

3.5 audiobook stars for me. This was a cute quick listen for me. I have enjoyed this author as a nice palate cleanser after longer more serious books. This is sweet and while it certainly lacks depth it was good. Both MCs were great together and who wouldn’t love those pets!
free spirit), one of whom needs a short-term fake fiance for business reasons.
There is a reason that trope is almost always Fake!Dating in a contemporary.
And it is where this book falls down for me.Look, I am willing to suspend a heck of a lot of disbelief in my fluffy romance, but at the end of the day, I just do not quite buy that these two people would have gotten married.
If you can get past that, I think the rest of this book is actually better than Strange Bedpersons.
The opposite character tropes are softened, such that you actually believe these people could exist.
I read a couple of Jennifer Crusie's other books and liked them because they're funny, breezy and not always entirely formulaic.
However, shortly in, the story evolves and becomes about art, personal growth, the creative process, family, letting go of bad family history, interior decorating, and love born from respect and understanding.
Daisy seems like a very real person and I identified with her a lot.
Her artwork is also vividly described and sounds really interesting; I'd like to see her paintings!
Thumbs up, and give it a shot if it sounds interesting even if you don't usually read romance novels.
This turned out to be a surprisingly quick, funny & romantic read!
Linc's name got on my nerves at the beginning until I found out his name was short for Lincoln, DUH DAISY!!
& of course I loved Daisy's name.
Daisy & Linc go through their ups and downs as they unravel their deceiving plan to be a married couple.
There are some funny moments mixed in with some "Awwww" moments (view spoiler)[ when they finally make the romance real (hide spoiler)]If this is how Ms. Crusie writes then I will be reading more of her books in the years to come.
Lincoln Blaise is a college professor and an author.
He's also a stick in the mud and usually an ass.
Whilst searching for better employment he tells a lie to the hiring board that he has a fiancee.
When they want to meet her he better find one quick.
No not the friendly blonde that he's friends with and has had repeated carnal knowledge of her body, that would make sense.
So much more sense don't you think?
The whole book is cute and light but filled with moments that just don't make as much sense as I thought they should.
It's been awhile since I have read a Jennifer Cruise book. I have always been a big fan of hers. After all the glowing reviews, I thought I would give this one a read. However, I felt it lacked the sizzle and tension and just downright fun her other books have. I would say this one was just okay. I settled at 2.5 stars. Her other books are so much better
I read this book back when I was in highschool and i read it again as a university graduate and I still loved it. It was so fluffy and romantic and the chemistry between the two characters was so pure. UGH. Read it please.
I loved it!
3 StarsMy Thoughts:Even though I only gave this book a 3 star rating, I did enjoy it.
Was it one of the best books I have read?
No. Was it one of the best books by this author I have read?
No. Was it a cute and fun contemporary romance?
Yes!This is the story of Linc and Daisy.
I liked Linc and Daisy, but they didn't jump off the page at me with personality.
Should You Read It?If you enjoy a funny contemporary romance they yes you should.
You are NOT going to like Linc (the H) at first, but keep reading.
The point of the whole book is about how he wakes up and becomes the man Daisy (the h, an artist) deserves.
He's an ambitious academic who talks her into a sham marriage for a year so he can land the faculty position he wants, and he thinks that although she is alarmingly flaky, she'll fit the bill as long as she is willing to make a few changes to her personality, her style of dress, and the way she interacts with people.
Things do not work out as planned.
I found this book hilarious! Daisy kept me entertained through the entire book. I so wanted to not like Linc but he got the best of me......one of JC's best!
It's pretty clear from the outset and title that this book is going to have a happy ending. But the characters and are so much fun and so adorable, that it's worth the ride. Fun read.
So she slowly matures (read:fixes herself) thoughout the novel, which Linc approves of while making no change in himself.
After deciding he wants the "Real Daisy" back, Linc rips off her dowdy black dress and throws it out the window so they can have passionate, red-hot, censored sex before returning to the public function filled with all their friends and family.
And of course, by "Real Daisy", Linc means the matured, sexy, housewife she's become in her quest to please him.
The Cinderella Deal serves as good comfort food for those ‘I-want-to-stay-in-bed’ days.
Meet boho-chick artist, Daisy Flattery who believes in clash and contrast.
Daisy agrees to play the fawning fiancée for a sum of a thousand dollars which will tide her over till her financial situation improves.
As the two play house, they find that an emotionless professor and a zany artist can coexist with companionship, simmering passion and genuine fondness for each other.
Whether they do anything to change their false situation is what the chick-lit is all about.The Cinderella Deal is sweet read, peppered with a host of typical characters ranging from the sarcastic best friend to the lecherous boss to the unexpected love-interests.
