https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54827.All_My_Friends_Are_Going_to_Be_Strangers
And, wouldn't you know it, I was reading Larry McMurtry again, through all of the madness.What a coincidence!So, naturally, being the kind of person I am (an annoying perpetual teacher and obsessive reader) when these Texans were all sprawled out in our driveway the other day, eating lunch, I walked up and said.
Larry doesn't write mysteries or intrigue, and I'm not even sure you can accuse all of his stories of achieving a climax or a denouement.Mr. McMurtry is just one of the finest damn storytellers there ever was.I could live, perpetually, in his worlds, and, outside of the nearly perfect Lonesome Dove, I could live most contentedly in his Houston series.The Houston series was written, on and off, during a 20 year period and is comprised of 6 books that do NOT need to be read in order.
The door to ordinary places was the door that I had missed.Good lord, this is a wandering tale of a naive and rather stupid young man, Danny Deck.
I think part of this is very much a time piece, and I get that it's suppose to be this spectacle of characters, but the characters are too much of a spectacle.
Danny has one moment of true action, self-motivated direction instead of aimlessness and it made me laugh.
That said, I really like the writing.
This was my first McMurtry novel and I think I should have started somewhere else.
I think I had different expectations from the title.
Old Shit I've Been Revisiting Part II: The Sequel.Believe it or not but my tolerance for books about young men who are so desperately swamped by ennui, alienation and genius that they have no choice but to love up all the lovely ladies is extrodinarily low.
It's Larry McMurty's genius (yes I did say genius and I'll fight anyone who says different) for drawing character and place.
Like Jim Jaramusch and Richard Linklater He has a special knack for capturing character, but more importantly he captures America the real America the one hid behind all the Target's and Bed Bath's and Beyond.
McMurty's contempary books serve as a guide there and his western's a history.
The main character is an English major at Rice and there is a lot of lovely, loving description about Houston, its swampiness, its smell.
I always hear that McMurtry is calling into question the mythology around Texas with his novels but I think he does that more with his flawed characters than he does with the land itself.
There's a lot of profanity and sex and it's all very playful.
I don't think I'll ever get over how deadpan McMurtry can be over people having sex with animals.
3. The book captures the struggle of writers, but different callings too, to find meaning in their work and in their lives.
Fun and bizarre situations. The dinner scene with the Hollywood producer in the icy cave is my favorite. Swell characters, too, except the narrator, who is whiny and sleeps with -- literally -- EVERY female with whom he comes into contact. I wasn't repulsed. Just bored eventually.
I read this book a long time ago, but searching under Larry McMurtry I saw the title and was reminded how much I enjoyed it. It's funny and tender and evokes a Texas I vaguely remember when I was stationed at Fort Hood.
Like McMurtry, I got a Master's degree in English at Rice - and even though I went there at least 25 years after he did - some of his nostalgia for the place/era definitely rubbed off on me.
There are some hilarious set-pieces in this novel, although the sexual politics (and the portrayal of women) definitely feel dated.
I still enjoyed this book a lot, but the two 18 year olds with me mostly didn't - with the exception of the character of Godwin Lloyd-Jons (English; professor at UT), who they thought was great fun.
I was inspired to go seek out Larry McMurtry’s novel, All My Friends Are Going To Be Strangers after hearing Quentin Tarantino say that he had wanted to become a writer after reading this book.
So I wanted to see what it was about the book that inspired him so.
I’m guessing Tarantino thought that the lifestyle of a novelist, who is free to roam from Texas to California and back, was not a bad thing to strive for.It was poignant in some parts and entertaining in others, but generally sort of middlebrow literature in general.
I recommended it to my daughter and after reading it she said she did not like the way McMurtry portrayed women in it; so after 40 years I decided I should reread it.
His writing is still awesome.
I can literally feel the Houston heat in his descriptions, but his does paint his female characters with a bitter brush.
I will do a final review when I finish the book.8/25/2012 - Finished the book yesterday and yes, it does portray women badly.
I still loved the writing, but the characters seemed dated and damaged.
Finally finished this book. Loved it. Partly because of the Texas locale, but mostly because of the range of characters and emotions and possibilities. I wasn't really hooked on the end which was vague and psychological and seemed like an answer to the however-am-I-going-to-end-this question. I found the characters completely believable even though I haven't met any people like them. Unique. Except maybe for Sally and her parents who were neither interesting nor unique as people.
A melancholic book chronicling the misadventures of a young alcoholic author. The book has some very compelling scenes, particularly those taking place in Texas, but ultimately Danny fails to engage the reader as a character. You never really care what happens to him.
Half way through the book, I started to feel like I was just in the backseat of McMurtry’s protagonist’s El Chevy, being thrown this way and that around the Southwest; rambling along into different worlds with not a lot of direction from Danny or the book.
And when he goes to L.A., he finally finds one woman, Jill, he feels mentally at home with…but unlike his carnal relationship with Sally, he can’t physically become one with her.
We know that Danny has written a book much like McMurtry’s “Horseman, Pass By,” which I haven’t read yet, but do know that the movie “Hud,” one my favorites, was based on that novel.
Some of the traditional coming of age arcs coupled with McMurtry's total mastery of setting and road trip style characters that flit in and out stream of consciousness style.
This was also very funny and an unbelievably fast read.
Honestly, my love for Larry McMurtry just continues to grow.
Our library genre study is finally on to Literary Fiction, so I thought I would pick up something I was dying to read this month.
No surprise, this book was fantastic.I do feel like I should have picked this up when I was about 19, before my tolerance for artistic and indulgent male protagonists started to wane a little bit.
Still totally transcendent literature recommended to anyone.
Not many pieces of mainstream fiction out there in which Rice University and, in particular, its library, plays a major role. This was recommended to me by another Rice alum, and I was entertained by the campus perspective at the time. Having said that, this is a very different type of work from, say, Lonesome Dove, which I enjoyed. Overall, a bit heavy on the sex and alcohol themes, but it is what it is. Similarly, for anyone looking for a novel about "the writer's life" by a successful author, don't expect much in the way of inspiration.
I generally like this author but certainly never really got into the book. There were some promising moments as the "hero" danny deck drifted in and out of his life and relationships but he was never truly believable. At the end I felt let down. And the author of lonesome dove and Texasville really disappointed me. Save your time and if you're a McMurtry fan, go back to one of his older books
I reread this book after having finished it about 20 years ago. It has regularly crossed my mind as one the most depressing stories of a star-crossed protagonist I've ever read. Could also be titled, "Every Thing I Do Is Wrong." (like one of my favorite lines by singer Johnny Motard, in the song Alien Autopsy- "You know I don't belong/ And everything I do is wrong")
Well, my Omaha Syndrome way of thinking was probably the main reason I so enjoyed reading All My Friends Are Going to Be Strangers.
Larry McMurtry attended Rice (just like me!) and this book seems to be inspired by his experiences at that time in his life.
Danny Deck, the main character, is a burgeoning and foolish young writer who is an undergrad at Rice University.
I cannot really explain how happy I was when he talked about the location of his apartment or his time in the Rice library (I've been there!).
It's Omaha Syndrome.
For a wannabe beat-gen, on-the-road hipster who's basically using a skeletal plot to detail some sexual exploits...
He's a young guy struggling to come to grips with his own talent and what it means to be a successful writer while stuck in the rut of starving student and smelly hippie.
I'm kinda hypothesizing that the author didn't have to do too much deep character delving to come up with this one.
So if the plot felt like a bit of an excuse just to introduce 5 or 6 very different females for our hero to bed in various fashions...
To say that I have since read most of Mr. McMurtry's books and refuse to part with one of them is a testament to my regard for this author and bookman.I highly recommend all of McMurtry's books that I have read.
The author's ability to create characters that are likeable even if they are damnable.
You will laugh out loud and cry buckets of tears as you read your way through the lives of his characters.
There will be instances as you read of, "been there, done that".I reread Mr. McMurtry's books from time to time, still laughing, crying and loving the experience.
Although this is far from one of McMurtry's best books, it is very important if you're a fan of his work. This book gives the reader the feel for his main characters in many of his other books. His hero is a man who has strong moral feelings and is tormented by them.This is a recurrent theme. His characters are always sexual hedonists but they still display a moralistic tone towards the other characters. McMurtry is able to portray sex in many ways - tender, ridiculous, tawdry, shallow, fleeting, wholesome, etc. It's part of his charm.
An intriguing, pseudo-biographical tale. A coming of age story for a student of literature. Tons of "meta-" whatevers running through it. The real point of reading McMurtry's story is that the prose is simple, the emotion heartfelt, and the writing good. He portrays the down and out crowd of a Bohemian in a red state, and the false allure of the grass is greener mentality.
I loved this book. Not enough for five stars, I think I have to save that for my all time favorite books ever written, but still really loved it. The main character is compelling, vulnerable and tough at the same time. It's also an insightful look at what it's like to be an artist (he's a writer) and the ups and downs of that life. Also, it's funny.
The enjoyment of any book is relative to the readers preferences and life experience. This book is one of my favorites ever because in an odd way it helped make sense of and articulate my experiences shortly after my college graduation in my early 20's.
Enjoyable book...3.5 Stars It kind of reminded me of Catcher in the Rye a bit, with the angst and coming of age kind of themes. If you are looking for old western style Larry McMurtry, this isn't it, but it had memorable characters along the lines of The Last Picture Show.
So far this book is pretty weird, i mean they say the f-word very often. everybody cheats on everybody, people see eachother naked all the time and they all feel okay with it. The most ironic thing about it is that my english IV teacher recommended it to me.
Again this is something I was particularly fond of at the time-I loved the fact that the main character became successful and made a ton of money and had wacky adventures on the way. I wonder what I would think of it now.
A young writer's journey. Entertaining and sad, like McMurtry's best work.
One of My favorite Books. It was very real, very true. The style and form was believeable and kept the reader drawn in.
Literally what the fuck, Larry?
Danny gets offered a lot of money for the movie rights for his novel, and he heads for Hollywood with Sally.
Not only is she easy to fall in love with, she even inspires Danny to begin work on his second novel.
Disheartened, Danny throws his energy into his work and completes his novel, and then heads back to Houston.There, he gets hopelessly and romantically tangled up with warm, earthy, and chubby young Emma, and lusty but older Jenny.
Larry McMurtry makes a hugely touching story of Danny’s various fallings in and out of love.
