https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1686.Augustine_of_Hippo
Peter Brown is a beautiful writer. Even if you have no interest in Augustine, you could read this book and simply be lost Brown's command of language. However, this is the defining biography of Augustine. Brown has gone back and updated this book towards the end of his career. This is a gift to the world. Brown covers Augustine as a philosopher, theologian, Bishop, man, son and father. This is a long read, but it certainly belongs on your to read list.
In fact, the main schism of Augustine's time, the Donatists, had split from the Catholic church over the issue of Christian collaboration with Roman pagan authorites.
Throughout his career Augustine stood for the religion of church and parishioner (as supposed to the religion of the monastaries).
I felt I got a better sense of the "life and times" of Augustine as supposed to his thought and ideas.
Augustine is an important transitional figure between the classical and christian worlds, and his times give the reader of what it was like to live during the fall of the western roman empire.
This is an incredibly detailed biography of Augustine. Peter Brown uses Augustine’s writings and other sources of the period to create a biography which must be considered the authoritative work on Augustine. It is a difficult read at times and I read this over a period of time, taking it slowly. However, it was certainly worthy the effort.
A very difficult read, but easily the standard secondary source on Augustine.
The broad contours of Augustine's life are well-known, but Brown places them within a theological framework.
He takes intellectual themes from controversies in Augustine's life (thus the Latin-ish chapter titles) and retells the story around these themes.
It makes for somewhat difficult reading at times, but it is very illuminating.I cannot imagine a better work that more neatly captures Augustine's *sitz im leben* than this work.
Peter Brown is the undisputed master of classical antiquity and this book clearly shows it.
I think this is a great Biography of Augustine, but I wish there was some more focus and clarification on Augustine's theology. I think I will have to explore some more books on that specifically. However, Brown does focus on aspects of Augustine's Theology and it is interesting to see it in contrast to many views of Augustine today. Overall very good and I learned a lot.
These studies examined the manner in which Augustine's progressive absorption of the Christian Scriptures, his pastoral experience and his wrestling with the issue of grace and free will led him to surrender his earlier outlook on the nature of society, on the role of upper-class culture and on the potentialities of human nature.
“I have lost nothing,” Brown writes, “over the years, of my original fascination with the rise of Christianity in the late Roman world.
It recounts the life and intellectual struggles of a fascinating person, elucidates the writings of an important philosopher and gives a brilliant portrait of African society in the fifth century.The first thing to understand is that Brown has written a true biography; not a speculation of the life of man known through his actions and a few written sources.
In the epilogue to the second edition of his book Brown writes: ""Augustine appeared to me to be one of the few figures of late antiquity of whom a biography could be written.
They were far from being the undisputed spiritual leaders of a society 'in which church and state had become inextricably interdependent'.” (pg 492)I read the Epilogue before I started the rest of the book, and I recommend this order, although I suppose the fact that Brown chose to make it an “epilogue” rather than a “prologue” suggests he would not agree with me.There were so many marvelous passages from Augustine here that picking one is hard, but this one (and I include Brown's words to make the situation clear) nicely conveys what makes him so loveable...“Not every man lives to see the fundamentals of his life's work challenged in his old age.
If you're a student of history, and have been forced to read any previous Peter Brown, you will know that his usual writing style amounts to stuffing an overwhelming chunk of ideas into a very small amount of pages.
Augustine of Hippo: A Biography is not the usual Peter Brown.
Unlike Yourcenar, however, Brown doesn't have to resort to imaginative writing to give us an intimate understanding of Augustine of Hippo, and each time I read this book the affect is like that of revisiting an old friend.
Okudugum en iyi Augustinus biyografisi. Tumuyle antik kaynaklara dayanan bir kitap oldugu icin gonul rahatligiyla ciddi calismalarda kullanilabilir. Referanslar sayfa altinda veriliyor, gayet iyi bir kitap.
Augustine, his theology, his philosophy, his pastoral ministry, his interaction with the state, his defenses of orthodoxy come alive in this wonderful biography by Peter Brown.
Brown emphasizes Augustine's intellectual labors and how his thought matured over the years.
Brown's discussion of the Donatist controversy and the Pelagian controversy were excellent.
I never realized how much passion Augustine had and how deeply he felt certain things.
I did not come close to absorbing all that was discussed, but what I got was exciting.
Two specific things came out of the reading: First, I want to think better and deeper.
Second, I want to get Augustine's sermons.
I thoroughly enjoyed immersing myself in the life and world of Augustine through Brown's landmark biography.
There is a reason why it has remained the standard life of Augustine for over 45 years.
The epilogue, which was not a part of the original biography, includes two chapters reflection on the advances in Augustine scholarship since Brown first wrote.
The second is more reflective on Brown's own cultural and scholarly milieu in the 1960's and how that influenced his writing as well as how scholarship has changed and advanced since then.
The persistent and simultaneous tug of contemplative inclinations against pastoral, practical controversies within the flock is standard stuff of ancient ecclesiastical biographies, but Brown was able to get out of the way with enough tact to let the details of Augustine's personal story stand up in clear but ornate relief against the backdrop of 5th century Hippo, Carthage, and Rome.
The two great controversies of Augustine's life--over Donatism and Pelagianism--stand like pillars on either side of his episcopal ministry, and I realized that prior to this biography I hadn't understood what was at stake in either of them, having approached them through an exclusively theological lens.
This biography from the late '60s (his new edition left the original pretty much intact, and just added a preface and epilogue with information about recent discoveries of sermon texts and letter transcriptions, with the attendant implications in thought), was among the first to situate such a major figure from antiquity in the contemporary social, political and organizational structures.
It may be a place where he's spent much time, but he's just as interested in developing new insights as you are.
Simply a great read: stunning in scope, utterly original in bent, and still joyful in depth.
Instead, we must seek to have humility and strive to understand the characters in their place and time.
I had to constantly remind myself of this when reading Peter Brown's magisterial biography of Augustine of Hippo, or known affectionately by most as St. Augustine.
Brown's prose and integration of source material in this biography is remarkable.
The reader of Augustine needs to proceed with caution.
All in all, this is an incredible book, but in attempting to traverse the mountain of Augustine's thought, by way of Peter Brown's leading, don't be surprised if you get altitude sickness - I know I did.
An excellent picture of the man and what shaped him. Brown is an adept biographer; his treatment of St. Augustine reads almost like a novel. I would be a lot more enthusiastic about biographies if they were this well-presented. This served as a great tool to prompt interest in Augustine's works, namely, his confessions and City of God.
Outstanding.
This is probably one of the best biography's I have ever read. It creates a realistic portrait of one of the most important figures in Christian history. I highly recommend!!
One of the things I think you will find in it is a correlation between Augustine’s times and our own: note the “three fold Christian task” below and tell me if that has not changed at all.One anecdote I recently read about its creation is even more fascinating and should be told to every masters thesis research scholar: “Turns out that Brown had not developed any special interest in Augustine until the end of his undergraduate studies.
A work of art.
I never finished reading this book, and it's not my favorite by Brown, however, I learned a lot about Augustine and filled in my mental picture of the milieu of early Christianity which interested me so obsessively when I was in my thirties. If you want to read a history of Augustine that is nearly as readable as a novel but infinitely more informative, this is the book for you!
The go to book for a broad overview of Augustine's life and theology. Brown really gives his reader a sympathetic look at the ancient world. I first read this book in an Augustine seminar, with primary sources alongside the complementary sections, and it was a great way to learn Augustine.
So very good
A rich, subtle, and delightful read.
Magisterial. An excellent biography of the life of Augustine.
Nevertheless, Peter Brown’s biography of Augustine of Hippo, a man who quite literally transformed the face of the Catholic Church both in his lifetime and long after his death, stands out from ordinary surveys of ancient people’s lives.
Brown scrupulously documents the evolution of Augustine’s thought over the course of his seventy-five long years of life, from his Manichaeist days as a university student in Carthage, to his conversion at Milan and subsequent intellectual retreat to Cassiciacum, to his final days as a beleaguered bishop at Hippo, literally surrounded by marauding bands of heretical Vandals slaughtering Catholics and touting Arianism.
insightful background to Augustine's work
He points out areas of weakness in his early scholarship: “There is a harshness in my judgments on the old Augustine which the indulgent reader should put down to a young man’s lack of experience in the world.” He writes that, as a young medievalist in the 60s, he was fascinated “with Augustine as a Janus figure, towering, for good or ill, above his contemporaries on the threshold between the ancient and medieval worlds.” Augustine’s works provide an inner look at the rise of Christianity in late antiquity.
Mijn plan was om voordat ik aan de Belijdenissen zou beginnen 'eventjes' een biografie van Augustinus te lezen. Dat 'eventjes' viel behoorlijk tegen. Deze biografie, geschreven door Peter Brown, is blijkbaar dé biografie van Augustinus geschreven voor professionals én leken. Maar dan wel voor leken die al precies weten wat Manicheïsme, Donatisme en Pelagianisme inhouden en precies op de hoogte zijn van alle kerkelijke ins en outs van die tijd, niet voor echte leken. Hard werken dus.
Anything by Peter Brown is well worth the read and this is no exception. This has been for me a really life-giving experience allowing me to drink deeply from Augustine's inner life while learning about the outer events that shaped it. I seldom recommend books to friends but have encouraged every close friend I have to pick up a copy of this important historical, philosophical, and theological work.
