https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/346955.Babette_s_Feast_and_Other_Anecdotes_of_Destiny
There is also Tempests, dealing with a young actress and the way her life is affected by a shipwreck in Norway.The Immortal Story talks of two men, a merchant in Canton China and his clerk, and how their lives become woven together.And finally, The Ring, relating what happens to a young Danish couple one July.I know I am not giving much detail, but I am still lost in Dinesen's world.
I feel as if I have just eaten a lovely, flaky pastry; something full of layers, flavors and textures that need time to settle before I understand it all.
Only read the title story with this book clubIt's a story that makes you laugh with delight, about puritanism and food and sensuality, with a sexy undercurrent of political rebellion and a sweet crisp crust of female friendship and mutual support (if made into a film it would be Bechdel-passing) even if male mediation and infatuation have a hand in bringing it about.Mmm but what is the take out?
What's in my goodie bag?
Egalite and...
Sorority?
Am I to conclude that Babette's sensibilities season or threaten the bland yet stable culture of her protectors?
And what's this about the nobility of willing servitude?I enjoyed it but I feel I might have swallowed too much qu'ils mangent de la brioche
TheMobileRead Literary bookclub's choice of "Babette's Feast" for December led me to read the book of short stories. I enjoyed the layers in the "Feast" story very much and felt for Babette, who was indeed a great artist, for having to restrict her cooking to the plainest of food for so many years.I also enjoyed "The Immortal Story" very much; the other stories in the book did not appeal to me so much, but they were all worth reading.
All of the stories in this collection center around the idea of art and creative power. The most famous story in the collection is "Babette's Feast" and not only shows how art comes in more than one form, but also how the artist can be an unknown quality. The story "Tempests" has echos of Tennyson's "Lady of Shallot". The most touching story is "The Immortal Story" where reality and myth mix.
Il pranzo di Babette è certamente il più noto tra questi cinque racconti, tuttavia non è quello che mi è piaciuto maggiormente.Ho trovato molto più interessante ed innovativo La storia immortale e sono rimasta stregata da L'anello, un racconto che si sviluppa con sorprendente capacità evocativa in appena una manciata di pagine, una vicenda di soli quattro minuti - un nulla nel corso dell'umana esistenza - capaci di sconvolgere interamente le vite dei protagonisti.
This famous meal features a dish, “Cailles en Sarcophage.” Translation: Quail in Coffins.It’s quail in a puff pastry shell with truffles and fois gras.
But I still don’t know how or where to get quail.What I did have however, were two cornish hens in the fridge, and Anna Shapiro’s terrific book A Feast of Words: For Lovers of Food and Fiction.
She has taken the quail dish from Babette’s Feast and altered it to a more appealing Quail with Potatoes and Grapes.
It sounded delicious and just the kind of special thing I was wanting to make for Valentine's Day. I didn’t follow the exactly: first, Cornish hens need longer cooking time than quail.
In my GR catalog, short stories are being tagged dewey 800s, which is where literature and short stories would likely be found on public library shelves.Also, I'm in the process of re-tagging "fiction" by searching to see with which genres other GR users are tagging their short stories books. Often they are classics.Smiled when this title came up at the memory of pleasant surprises it brought to the reading chair.
Babette, solo BabetteSalvo solo "Il pranzo di Babette": stupendo!Il resto mi ha annoiato. Forse non ero in vena.
Poteva quasi figurarsi che lui stesso e Malli stessero correndo, mano nella mano, al crepuscolo, in un buio tutto loro. Ma non era un buio sterile, era la possente notte delle luci nordiche, e in essa le cose vivevano: gli orsi irsuti e pesanti brancolavano ansimando, i lupi gironzolavano in lunghe file attraverso il nevischio e sulle piane, gli antichi finni, esperti di stregoneria, ghignavano vendendo dolci venti ai marinai.
Raccolta di cinque racconti, tutti apprezzabili. A mio avviso l'apice è "La tempesta", ma non si può non ricordare anche "Il pranzo di Babette". Dove si scontrano con più forza realtà e immaginazione ( "La tempesta", "La storia immortale", "Il pescatore di perle" ), il risultato è notevole.
Seleção de cinco contos, alguns contendo elementos das lendas nórdicas, um deles ficou muito famoso após ter sido adaptado para o cinema: A Festa de Babette. Sensacional.
5 splendidi racconti. Il pranzo di Babette e' un gioiello.
To me the only story that stood out was "Tempests". But then again I'm a sucker for Shakespeare.
От благодарност (а и неудовлетвореност от местната кулинарна традиция, която включва две ястия - рибена супа и хлебно-бирена каша), след като печели 10000 франка на лотария, Бабет решава тя да им приготви вечерята за 100-годишнината от рождението на пастора.
А и да изпиташ носталгия към доброто старо кино от 80-те, преди съвременните догми на самоцензуриране (под страх от разгром в социалните мрежи), които няма да позволят на екран да се свари супа от гигантска морска костенурка, даже и в история от XIX век."Угощението" е само един от анкедотите за съдбата в сборника.
Avevo letto da adolescente il pranzo di Babette trattenendone un'immagine magica, forse derivata dal film che comunque non ricordavo bene. La lettura da adulto mi ha invece francamente annoiato, sia Babette che gli altri racconti, pure peggio. Sono storielle morali, costruite una nell'altra tipo matrioske, tutte piuttosto superflue. Peccato.
Babette's Feast: Beautifully written, haunting and thought-provoking. Packs a lot into its 46 pages (romance, religion, politics, nostalgia, identity, history and loss), but still manages to seem unhurried and sparse. Might even round this up to 5 stars one day after a re-read if I can twig the full meaning...[reviews of other 4 stories to follow...]
My comments here are focused specifically on the story of Babette's Feast. The story is poetic and beautiful and emotionally provocative. So, too, is the superb movie directed by Gabriel Axel (released in 1987). I wept at the conclusion -- the "visuals" created by Dinesen's use of language and the philosophical meaning around the culminating meal are cause for joy.
Właściwie przeczytałam tylko to jedno, tytułowe opowiadanie na zajęcia uczelniane, ale nie będę sięgać po resztę, nie mój typ literatury.
Her prose is very ornate in a very literary sort of way: she seems to be always carefully choosing her words, but I get the feeling that she read English more than she spoke it.
Generally I don’t like this sort of writing, finding it false, finding the failure to respond to spoken language corresponding with a failure to respond to the world around us in any direct way.
If, however, like me, you found the film to be a self-congratulatory feel-good inconsequentiality, don’t let it put you off Blixen’s stories.)
Lorsque j’ai vu l’adaptation cinématographique de Gabriel Axel (1987), je me rappelle avoir beaucoup apprécié cette histoire d’une cuisinière au talent exceptionnel et dotée d’une grande générosité.
L’auteure nous dit : « Babette c’est moi »!
Une artiste révolutionnaire qui se sent isolée et incomprise.
Elle accepte son sort d’exilée dans un monde qui ne la comprend pas.
Néanmoins, il existe une évidence pour moi.
Comme le dit le psychiatre Jean Cottraux : « Le créateur est quelqu’un qui est sorti du rang et a bousculé les spectateurs trop complaisants de la comédie humaine en leur donnant à voir l’inhabituel ».
C’est une sorte de héros transgressif.
Babette est une héroïne de cette trempe.
Isak Dinesen reminds me of Flannery O'Connor because of cryptic themes and disturbing imagery, but she is not nearly as gritty as O'Connor.
"Babette's Feast" is the most well-known story in the book and the least enigmatic of the five.
Although "Babette's Feast" is one of my favorite stories, I have to be honest and say that I did not enjoy the rest of the book.
But, alas, that was not to be.Every serious reader should be familiar with Dinesen's "Babette's Feast," so feel free to skip the other stories and enjoy her magnum opus.
I saw the movie years ago in college and loved it then.
It was very interesting to read the story recently.
The movie follows the book almost exactly.
For myself, after the first few minutes of the movie, I no longer even notice that it is in subtitles.
It is not a story one would expect to love so much.
Yet it so elegant and powerfully portrayed.
Much like the story of God's saving grace which it portrays.
And that is exactly what Christ did for us.
My father has described the film "Babette's Feast" (1979) to me many times with great enthusiasm, but I have not yet seen it for myself.
It seems to follow this original story/novella quite faithfully.
A curious and layered story.
But the story can be enjoyed/appreciated for its fascinating philosophical element.
A couple of Scandinavian expressions don't quite translate, but it does not hinder the story much.
Deep, silent, enigmatic Babette--I hope she astonishes you.
The other stories are very different, but all very good reads and thought-provoking.
I especially liked "The Immortal Story." I'm looking forward to receiving Blixen's WINTER TALES, and am tempted to reread OUT OF AFRICA right now!
Babettes Fest ist die großartige Geschichte einer französischen Haute-Cuisine-Köchin, die es in den Wirren der französischen Revolution in die norwegische Provinz verschlägt. Wunderschön und mit freundlicher Ironie erzählt, eine meiner Lieblingsgeschichten, für die sich die Anschaffung der Sammlung lohnt. Die übrigen vier Erzählungen sind deutlich märchenhafter, phantastischer. Die längeren drei zeichnen sich vor allem dadurch aus, dass in ihnen nach Art von russischen Puppen eine Geschichte in der Geschichte in der Geschichte erzählt wird. Leider ist dieser aneinanderreihende, repetitive Märchenstil nicht ganz nach meinem Geschmack und darum gibt es trotz der überragenden Haupterzählung nur 2,5 Sterne für die Sammlung.
I did not really care for this novella about two spinster sisters who live an austere life in memory of their father, and only after 14 years discover their cook and servant is an artist with food. Even so, our book group had a wonderful meeting. Our hostess replicated the feast, her husband played the role of the general, we all wore simple (somber) black dresses, and the darkened dining room was lit with only the line of candles down the center of the table.
Babette's Feast is an allegory of the Last Supper or God's grace. There were many she served who did not recognize the gift of grace she extended to them, yet they were still healed by their association with her. It gives one pause to reflect on our own ability to recognize grace in our lives.I only read "Babette's Feast."
What was this story about? Because I'm not sure I could tell you. Ok I did like the two spinster sisters and the carefully written background of religious extremes. Maybe this is like a Norwegian version of Footloose. And Babette is Kevin Bacon.
E quanto di essa, invece, dipende dall'imperscrutabile volontà di quella forza misteriosa che alcuni chiamano destino, altri Provvidenza, e che altri ancora liquidano rapidamente sotto il nome di "caso"?Questo sembra chiedersi Karen Blixen, e su questo pare voglia farci riflettere, mentre, con la delicatezza e il tono di chi racconta una fiaba, ci conduce per mano nelle atmosfere soffuse e incantate dei suoi racconti: cinque storie dal sapore antico, cinque leggende sospese tra sogno e realtà, dove epoche e luoghi, sebbene spesso esplicitati, passano in secondo piano di fronte al fascino onirico delle vicende narrate, alcune umanissime, altre surreali, ma tutte, in qualche modo, accomunate da una sorta di valore universale.Storie che raccontano vite, progetti, bizzarre fantasie degli esseri umani, ogni volta, immancabilmente, scombinati da quella forza imprevista che, incurante dei desideri dell'uomo, attraverso un evento fuggevole, o un particolare insignificante, non esita a stravolgerli, consegnando ogni racconto ad un finale inatteso.Sono i Paesi del Nord, i mari in tempesta, gli angoli in un certo senso più misteriosi del pianeta, le ambientazioni predilette di questa talentuosa scrittrice che con grazia e semplicità ci fa immergere in mondi lontani e affascinanti.
Il pranzo di Babette è un piccolo gioiello letterario. Gli altri racconti mi sono piaciuti meno.
but in a Christian context, Babette is like a Christ-figure (the ultimate creator and artist, right?) who prepares a feast for those she serves.
And the wonderful thing is how this meal - literally - provides healing to the fractious group - a nice metaphor for how Grace is a source of healing in the Christian faith.
It also suggests that even the most religious among us may be the most blind to it because it was the GENERAL, the least religious, or the most superficially religious, who makes the speech and seems to understand how mercy and truth come together as a result of the meal.
