https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347422.Coffee_Tea_or_Me_
I first read this book in 8th grade.
I then proceeded to read it several times.So, I guess I'm saying I'm probably biased toward loving this book.
I wanted to hang out in their stew pad with them and listen to stories about drunk passengers and stewardess school and be-ins and cheating boyfriends.
The airlines even hired girls to spy on other stewardesses as you learn in one chapter when our heroines get suspended for drinking at a party the night before a flight.Where are you, Trudy and Rachel?
ETA: I recently read an article about this book that spilled the beans that Donald Bain completely made up this story.
I LOVE airlines and airline culture and all that airplane-y goodness.
I tried to become a flight attendant once and was hired and was hired by a certain AAirline in 2001 but then some stuff happened on September the 11th (pause- moment of silence - - and continue) and my dream was never realized.
Somewhere after the point of crushed dreams I got a job at a bookstore and read this book.
Oh, the hilarity!
Forget all that hippie stuff- this was all martinis and big hair and swingin' singles pads.
This was one of many "saucy" paperbacks my mother and her friends traded in the 70s as they came to the end of their twenties and wondered if the sexual revolution had passed them by.
Not surprisingly, it's basically a man's fantasy of sexual liberation, which, one suspects, isn't all that liberating for women.
But it's also pulpy fun and part of a whole softcore trend in which you could go to your average drugstore as a kid in the Nixon/Ford era and learn all kinds of F and C words you never even knew existed.
I'm surprised new editions haven't cut that chapter.
Loved this book as a middle/high schooler when I dreamed of living the glamorous life of a flight attendant. Recently found out it was not a memoir written by two women at all, but a total lie written by a man. I am going to pretend that I never heard that and continue loving it the way I always did.
I’m sure this is REALLY dated now – this from the era when flight attendants were called stewardesses and they were all unmarried women.
A memoir by 2 of them, that at the time I really enjoyed, and read several times.
Yes, this is light & breezy & fluffy.
But I did learn respect for flight attendants as well because they wrote about the education they needed to do the job, not just about their personal exploits.
Embarrassed now to add this book to my roster, but enjoyed it at the time.
What I found, was that Donald Bain used a small dash of their stories (and changed their names to Rachel and Trudy), a dash of his own personal flight experiences and a large dose of his imagination.
Yes, you read that right.
He used his imagination [as he states, himself, in the start of the book) and stories an "uninhibited memoir" about 2 women.
I'll just have to wait until I can convince my brain that it is not truly a memoir, but a work of fiction that is lightly sprinkled with partially true stories.
Still fulfilling it's original intent, offering a humorous and informative look into the lives of sky-waitresses; now with the added, unintended, quality of offering a look into the norms and mores of people living half a century ago as well.
The illustrations were a bit incongruous--definitely from the Playboy School of Triangular Boobs--but the book itself was highly entertaining, and informative, circa 1967.
In the end, it is twoo, in fact, that the job of a stew is to land a man, albeit not a married one.
**Except now in the cold light of day, I remember there were some fairly chilling passages of homophobia.
Seem to be connected to general resentment that bums in seats are not eligible bachelors, and the tone really takes a nose dive in those passages.
I checked this book out because hello- every flight attendant needs to read it right?
its about the glamourous days of flying (they werent so glamorous then either) and i had so much fun reading it.
until i got to the chapter on "the homosexuals." i had tokeep from burning the book and keep telling myself that it was written in 1967 by a really really old broad and hopefully by now her attitudes towards "the honosexuals" have changed.
(her solution was to offer the homosexuals half price fares so the flight attendants would know who was gay and then they could seat all of the homosexuals in the back together.sad) other than that it was a fun read.
This was written back when homosexuality was an issue in the public eye.
So if you're not open minded perhaps you should skip this book as it describes the era of flights.
I don't believe this is meant to be offensive, it was just a different time back then.
It gives you an idea of how the stewardesses of this time period had to represent the airlines, and the crap they had to endure with their passengers.
They recount funny moments, serious ones, and risqué situations as well...for their time frame.
An easy light read with short chapters and drawings that perhaps are to take up space?
The book is an embellished version of truth, and I have no doubt that any number of parts in it are pure fabrication (Canoe dates with Montreal Mounties?
I did not enjoy reading that chapter.On a lighter note, the mounties in Montreal.
I'm not upset by the stereotype that Canada is overrun with Mounties and we all have canoes (nothing else to do on a date up here before retiring to his igloo to hook up, right?).
But the odds of finding a Mountie in Montreal who has a canoe and thinks paddling the St. Laurent is a good date activity?
Apparently, when it was first published in 1967 it was presented as strictly non-fiction, but the "ghostwriter" Donald Bains specifically admits in this re-issue that it's pretty much mostly made up of stuff that came from his imagination.
Parts of it were funny, there was a lot of stuff that really wasn't though.
A lot of the unfunny stuff was obviously just sort of par for the course at the time that it was written, which I totally get, but it still took away from the enjoyment of reading it because I don't find sexism, racism, classism or weight shaming funny.
I've been wanting to read this book for about 10 years and kept forgetting to pick up a copy.
I was disappointed to learn that Trudy Baker and Rachel Jones are pseudonyms for the two "stews" who allegedly told these stories to the ghostwriter.
Kudos to the ghostwriter.
Sure, there are some stories about flying and an occasional oddball passenger, but the bulk of the book is about parties they attended, roommates and the apartments they shared, and the men they dated.What I did find interesting was how dated the material is, which makes it all the more intriguing.
I heard of this book and how it had notoriety in its day, so was curious to read it.
It started off funny, then veered into some homophobia (the word 'fag' gets used a fair bit), racism and sexism.
Still, it was an okay read but I was kinda disappointed to discover that it was actually written by a man (he also wrote for the show 'Murder She Wrote') and that the two female stewardesses listed as the authors were fictional.
Whatever the case, it was a bit of a let down to hear that it was fictional and not actual memoir.
Some parts of this book were amusing and interesting to know, but most of the stories fall really flat, and the total is not nearly as salacious or scandalous as the title suggested.
But then again, its the point of view of a modern person.
Let's just say the book hadn't aged very well and had stopped being relevant.
Didn't help that the ghost writer is a man who didn't even hesitate to put in the foreword that the stewardesses' stories weren't enough to make a book and he had to use his "imagination", thus both invalidating the women who owned the story and raising his status above that of a ghost writer.
Mine is a much older version, and credits Trudy and Rachel as the "authors".
It just mentions Don Bain, the actual author, in a "thank you".
The voice of this idiotic book does not, in fact, sound at all like a woman's.
And I tried Googleing the "Wisconsin plane crash on Christmas Eve" mentioned, but couldn't find anything.
There must be some small grain of truth in this book, but who cares?
Words like "faggy" are so sickening, it doesn't matter.
Especially when the individuals allegedly using these words are portrayed as such dumb c***s, vile, skanky, whorish, drunken bimbos anyway?
My mother read this book when it first came out in the early 70s and when I asked her if I could read it she said it was a little too racy for me.When the book made its comeback a few years ago I had to solve the great mystery!This book is dated, but it made me long for the good old days of a much more luxurious experience of plane travel. However, a few of the changes (i.e., non-smoking only flights and eliminating the mandatory retirement age for flight attendants) have been for the best.
I first read this book in high school and I have to admit, I don't remember being as turned off by it's dated bigotry. Re-reading it recently when I found it laying on a give away pile (It's a two hour or less slam through) I was a bit surprised to realize how biased it is. Is this times changing, me, or both? Either way, it's a decent trash novel that gives you a bit of a view into the swinging sixties stew lifestyle. Ah, "innocence". ;)
I gave up on this book over half way in. It's just terribly dated and terrible read. Who cares what bars in every major city stewardesses frequented back in 1967?! Their individual stories of encounters with passengers aren't very interesting nor was the tale of their training and sneaking out. Gave up on reading it and selling my copy of it and it's sequel. (Yeah, they actual made 2 sequels to this. Maybe back in the late 60s someone actually read them.)
This book has some funny moments and the nostalgia factor was great too, but a lot of the writing, especially regarding the "relationships" between some passengers and stewardesses, was pretty vulgar. I really think it should've been toned down considerably, but that's just me.
actually, currently RE-reading. After watching the first episode of Pan Am, I was moved to revisit this one. I first read it when it was NEW and I thought that flying just MIGHT be my future. (it wasn't)
Definitely a product of its time. I'm not sure if it's meant to be funny or what. I found it tremendously boring and the art work was awful. Stewardesses then were supposed to be attractive but the art shows them as fat and dumpy. If this had a 'reputation' in its day I cannot imagine what it was for.
I was talking about this book recently as one of those memoirs I read when I was a kid (at what was undoubtedly a totally inappropriate age) that has probably not aged well at all.
I can't give this book a star rating because I don't remember details, but boy did I enjoy reading it at the time.
I still enjoy reading books by people who describe the day to day details of their jobs that outsiders would not know, but I think I'll pass on re-reading this one since its dated attitudes towards gender, race, and sexual orientation would likely give me an aneurysm.
What a great book. I started this book when it first came out but it was not interesting at the time. It was really good,I highly recommend the book it gives you an insight into being a stewardess job.
Ride the wild and very friendly skies with a flock of female flight attendants who are more than willing to share the ins and outs traveling around the world. Filled with wit, Trudy Baker and Rachel Jones share high and low points of being a working girl in a male dominated world. From attending training to their first transatlantic flight, every day is new and exciting.Once presented as a factual account, this book is now proven to be the fictitious product of American Airlines public relations employee Donald Bain.
La oferta era sumamente atractiva teniendo en cuenta que se podía viajar por todo el mundo gratis o con costos mínimos.
En principio, lo que parece ser un diario de aventuras, continúa convirtiéndose en un manual práctico de la vida en el aire y después del aterrizaje.
Enfocado principalmente a la oportunidad de conocer hombres de todas las profesiones, de todos los paises y de todos las condiciones sociales, lleva de la mano entretenidamente a los lectores sin más intenciones que matar el tiempo y, literalmente, echar a volar la imaginación.
Who didn't want to be a stewardess in the 1970's?
Everyone wanted the glamour, but only a few were chosen.
Those of us that did not become stewardesses lived vicariously through Coffee, Tea or Me, flying through the exploits of Trudy and Rachel.This is a fun, totally NOT politically correct, romp through the skies with two of the wackiest stewardesses ever to leave the ground.
It is an inside look at the lives and sexual exploits of stewardesses.
Out of date by today's standards, the younger generation can get a first-hand look at the glamour, adventure and excitement of being a stewardess in the 1960's.
I just read in the introduction that there are 3 sequels to this book.
Mid-sixties, single girls on the make, a la Jacqueline Susann.
It purports to be non-fiction, but was actually written by Donald Bain, a gun-for-hire author who's since gone on to "ghost" the Murder, She Wrote mystery novels.
Trudy and Rachel are composite characters who embody the "stews" that Bain interviewed for the book.
There's lots of hooking-up, cattiness...everything you'd want and expect from the glory days of air travel, when flight attendants were required to be young, thin, single, and female.
One warning: this is the sixties, so be prepared for shocking, now-outdated stereotypes of homosexuals and Arabs.
When I read the title of this book, I expected a bunch raunchy sluts banging guys left and right.
I expected Sluts on a Plane.
What I got was more like Little Miss Prissy Goes to Dinner.
These so-called sluts never bang anyone.
They are prissy little cunts who never fuck anybody.
So, fuck these little cunts in their dirty assholes.
I mean if you like reading about prissy bitches who never put out.
It did get a bit interesting when they shared a small apartment with 8 other girls who weren't quite as prissy.
This book is really only interesting because it took place in the 60s. It's a fun, quick read. There's not a lot of story, but it is basically tales of former stews as embellished by the author (to what degree is up for debate). It definitely enforces the sexy image that shows like Mad Men and the shot lived Pan Am gave, which is undoubtedly not entirely accurate. Nevertheless, it's entertaining and you'll wish you could have hung out with the two main characters, even if they are entirely invented.
