https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/742818.Still_William
This was a hilarious set of stories.
It is set in a more innocent time when children were allowed to be a lot more independent than they are now and were forced to use their imagination more because the only electronic entertainment they had was the radio.
I like William and his long suffering family and really enjoyed the "problems" he and his friend the outlaws got themselves into.
An added bonus to the CD is a 1964 interview with the author Richmal Crompton who said that she originally wrote the series for adults but over time it was moved to children's section in libraries.
I really enjoyed this CD and would recommend.
Some quite good William stories here, and for the first time his group of friends (the Outlaws) starts taking its definitive shape. William Brown is a great literary creation, and still funny a century later.
Still hilarious!
Still fun. :) I still think they're for the grown ups really.
Oh that William!
Was given this book as a child, this character is hard to hate. Characters are traditional and nostalgic.
There is a ring of truth to Violet Elizabeth stronger than any other I've experienced so far, and her introduction adds quite a bit of much-needed variety to the series, as do the other stories featuring the Bott family.
I find Ginger, Henry and Douglas far more believable and satisfying characters for William to interact with than anyone else in the series (including his own family) and I feel that this book really shows the Outlaws with a strong group dynamic for the first time.One thing Richmal Crompton often does rather well is make the reader sympathise with William's sense of despair at the hypocrisy of the adult world.
Many children will identify with William's patronising elder siblings, adults' lack of sympathy or understanding for many of the boys' games and adventures, and the fact that William's good intentions almost invariably land him in trouble - perhaps none better than his resolution to tell the truth after a vicar's Christmas sermon which results in him telling a family Christmas guest she is rather ugly!
Despite the fact that these stories date from the years before, during and after WW2, many of the situations and events encountered remain comparable today; a child's life if never entirely what it seems to us adults!
Were he around today he would be taken into care by social services or diagnosed with ADHD & doped to the gills with Ritalin.
Instead in the 20's & 30's such behaviour seemed to strike people as being a nuisance but not hugely remarkable - people may not have been quite so sang froid in real life but I suspect that his adventures are not too far from reality - especially when I remember some of the things I got up to in the 1970's!
Violet Elizabeth’s eyes filled with tears again.‘You do like all little girlth, don’t you?’ she persisted with quavering lip. ‘You do, don’t you?’‘Yes, I do,’ he said hastily, ‘I do. Honest I do.’She smiled again radiantly through her tears. ‘You with you wath a little girl, don’t you?’‘Er – yes. Honest I do,’ said the unhappy William.‘Kith me,’ she said raising her glowing face.William was broken.He brushed her cheek with his.‘Thath not a kith,’ said Violet Elizabeth.‘It’s my kind of a kiss,’ said William.
I used to read the Still William books every sunday afternoon after church in 5th and 6th grade. They were funny then and they're funny now! I love William, he reminds me a little of myself! My sister used to fall off her bed, laughing while reading Still William! They may be children's books but their appeal goes beyond. Its a great way to unwind after a tiring week.!
The William series is one of my best childhood memories. My fiance recently gifted me this book. I relived all my memories at the age of 24 and I was in splits once again. Though classified as a childrens' book, all ages can enjoy Richmal Crompton.
Ah...for about four years I would go to sleep every night to the wonderful voice of Martin Jarvis :) Hilarious stories! Especially "William and the White Cat"
Don't you just love Just William? I do! Richmal Crompton was a comic genius! =]
