https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/869045.Biggles_in_France
This is a collection of somewhat connected short stories (each spread over roughly two chapters) of Biggles’ adventures when posted at a French airbase Maranique.
The stories give us a view into the kind of action that the airmen saw every day (even when not in outright combat), the kind of lives they led, and indeed the dangers they faced, even when out for the most innocuous of tasks.
This was an interesting collection of stories, and while at the start I thought them ok reads, as I read on, I got drawn in more and more and found them rather enjoyable.

A few pages in, I knew I would once again immensely enjoy a Biggles book.
I was reading this at night and at the end of the chapter where the French pilot sits down and sobs because he ruined his plane, I couldn't stop laughing.
There were four specific stories in it that had me laughing out loud (that is rare :))One time Biggles goes over to German lines to shoot down a turkey for Christmas dinner.
The time, for instance, when Biggles and others fight the Huns after the death of a fellow pilot.
I love Biggles books, an acquired taste most definately.
I enjoyed this book, it brought me back to my childhood. Great stories.
A burst of bullets struck Biggles' machine somewhere just behind him, and he jerked the control-stick back into his stomach. A Hun shot past his wing-tip, so close that Biggles flinched.'That's too close!' he muttered. 'Where the dickens are the S. E.'s?'Biggles battles through the First World War, honing his flying skills in terrifying battles against the finest fighters the enemy can supply. But he finds war provides more light-hearted adventures as well, and this collection of stories from early in Biggles' career combines the fun of being part of 266 squadron and the fear of deadly serious aerial combat.
A collection of short stories that all have been published in other Biggles books. I can't remember if it is one of the first books or if it is in Biggles of 266 but if you have read those books then nothing here is new.Well, a few stories are changed/edited a bit but I don't know if that is because of the edition or because of the books. When republished in the 70s(?) the editor did a lot of change and I read that version.
Well, this book is incredibly easy to read. I think it was written as a series of very short stories, and the structure of the book does come across like that, there is no overriding story to the whole book, and sometimes threads are just cut and never mentioned again. But great fun and easy to read.
One of the best Great War aviation books I've read in a long while. Right up there with "Sagittarius Rising"
It was very nice, especially because it gives you an idea of how life was like in the war at a sqaudron.
Another book from my childhood days. One of the comforts I had during my times in hospital. Fantastic!
