https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3059283-daily-strength-for-daily-needs
Books these days do not address suffering that way anymore.
Example:July 5He stayeth His rough wind in the day of the east wind.--ISA.
All things else have but their day, God's love only lasts for aye.P. GERHARDT.We never have more than we can bear.
If the trials of many years were gathered into one, they would overwhelm us; therefore, in pity to our little strength, He sends first one, then another, then removes both, and lays on a third, heavier, perhaps, than either; but all is so wisely measured to our strength that the bruised reed is never broken.
-Pray till prayer makes you forget your own wish, and leave it or merge it in God's will.
To hate your adversary will not help you; to kill him will not help you; nothing within the compass of the universe can help you, but to love him.
THOMAS À KEMPIS.Be sure that if you do your very best in that which is laid upon you daily, you will not be left without sufficient help when some weightier occasion arises.
ROSSETTI.Be sure that if you do your very best in that which is laid upon you daily, you will not be left without sufficient help when some weightier occasion arises.
This is another one of my many daily meditation books that I have been reading throughout the year. This is one that I really did look forward to each day.There is a quote from the bible to start each day off. Here is a quote from the book just as an example:“Run not in any hasty ways of your own. Be patient under the sense of your own vanity and weakness; and patiently wait for God to do his own work, and in his own way.” (location 2416 of kindle)This was also free on kindle.
An enduring compilation of christian meditations for people experiencing long term suffering or life trials, Daily Strength For Daily Needs draws on the deep wisdom and invites readers into growing spiritually with, through, and because of their pain. In our current cultural preference to believe that all pain can be managed or dispelled, to rush as fast as we can from or eliminate all suffering, Daily Strength for Daily Needs brings a quiet steady word to the great many who are living with limiting illness, suffering, or other life trials.
Many words of encouragement and graceI've been through this book twice now since downloading it to my Kindle and every day I look forward to ending my devotional time with its words of strength, comfort and grace. Tomorrow starts a new year and I will go back to the beginning to start reading it through a third time, and I know it will be an encouragement in 2014 as well.
The author did an excellent job in her selections of spiritual passages in prose and verse - totally inspiring and uplifting. Because many are out of context reader can interpret them too. Authorial intention (and the problem of possible misinterpretation)is completely eliminated (since it doesn't matter really and is up to the reader completely). Brilliant!
I just started it (one of the many thanks r my new list taken from "The End of Your Life Book Club"). This is a very nice devotional and I'm reading it on my Kindle w/ iPhone app since I plan on reading it daily). I already have "Our Daily Bread which is also a wonderful free devotional that has its own app and you can also listen to the devotional).
This book has been a perfect companion book to A Course in Miracles. It was recommended in The End of Life Book Club book. It has a devotional reading for each day of the year. I look forward to reading January 1st tomorrow!
Old fashioned and beautiful, with lots of emphasis on surrender to God...and lots of modern resonance, because the authors are also advocating mindfulness of the present moment versus fretting about the future or resentfully dwelling on the past. And that is surrender too.
The best devotional ever! I turn to it time and time again for strength and comfort. It speaks so readily to the pain and trial of the Christian life in a sin-filled world.
Inspirational. Practical wisdom. Graceful poetry. A great companion to understand God's Word.
I love this devotional. It's so comforting, encouraging, and challenging.
Heard about this on 'The end of your life book club'.
I'm planning fantasizing to read the bible as i write this and i thought reading a page of this book daily would be a good introduction to religious texts, looking for bits of wisdom that apply to a secular life.It wasn't a pleasant read, often the old english used was an obstacle to understanding, and I found myself skimming through it before I realized I was thinking about something else and had to go back to try to understand.
The original Jesus Calling. This book was listed in The End of Your Life Book Club and includes a daily Bible verse(King James)as well as a short poem or quote to complement the Bible verse. This is a great book to have on Kindle/ iPad/Kindle app for easy access. This copy is an older version, so the language was a little difficult at times. However, there are many updated versions. A must-have for Christians that want to walk closer to Him.Each day can also be accessed athttp://www.crosswalk.com/devotionals/...
a faithfilled standby of wisdom from the past for the present ~
My mommy just gave me a beautiful 1891 edition of this book.
GoodThe book maybe in old English, but the content really blessed me and quenched and strengthened my heart and soul.
Pleasant little devotional. Wish it were a little longer each day.
I didnt really enjoy this one. I got it free in the kindle app so I guess I cant complain.
5* This 365-day devotional book was compiled and published in 1884, so it is old.
It surprised me how relevant the devotions were to me and my daily challenges in Christian living.
The theme is strength and encouragement for the day's work, and how God is with us in all of it.
This book spoke to my deeper needs while I read through it this year.
My mom read and recommended it to me, but as a young person I never really connected with it.
I highly recommend Daily Strength for Daily Needs; this book now a cherished favorite of mine.
This book combines Scripture and inspirational messages from godly men and women of the past. It makes a great supplement to one's quiet time. I'll likely read it again this year, because I enjoyed it so much.
The book is like a religious pep rally led by God's cheer leaders. Generally not my favorite kind of book, but this is well thought out and gently done.
This is a devotional book from 1884 (original publication date).
I loved reading it every day.
Th language and text in the copy I have is copied from the original text and it was fun to see the different lettering, etc.
Beyond that, I loved a perspective on daily motivation from the late 1800s.
It gave me insight and knowledge from different people that I would have never known about had I not picked up the book daily.
Highly recommend as you can gain some great knowledge not only about daily living but additions to your vocabulary (I had to look some words up).
I've been reading this book throughout the year (one affirmation a day) and it is good for a reader looking for not only bible versus but accompanying poems, essays, discussion from various authors on the the same theme. Some days were better than others and truthfully I probably didn't really "study" each day's writing as much as I should have. Picked this up, though, after reading the "End of your life bookclub" where it was referenced throughout. Good to get a daily dose of positive affirmations but difficult to carry through on each day's theme at times.
This book is centered on Protestant beliefs, but as this book is historically significant and filled with advice, poems, and scriptures not unlike what is related in my church, I liked and even agreed with many things in this book. it was well written also. If you want to study religions and philosophies and you like poems, this book is for you.
A friend recommended this book to me. It's a wonderful, daily inspirational book that combines scripture verses and daily quotations that follow the theme from classic, old-fashioned authors. The language is lovely and the entries are very comforting. They reflect an orthodox view of Christianity. Highly recommended as an addition to daily devotional reading.
Great Biblical Quotes and Quotes from other ChristiansI liked all of the Bible verses and quotes from great Christian people. They were all insightful and inspirational. This is an essential book to read every day of the year.
I found this book many years ago for sale at a nursing home that I was visiting. It is very well worn from use and was written over a hundred years ago. It is a precious little daily and I cherish it. Included are the writings of generations of christians.
Freading
Actually I have read this several times along with my daily Bible reading and find it both encouraging and inspiring.
