https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6553843-hard-rain-falling
I mean a guy should expect to have a slutty girlfriend, a gun (it is America after all; there are more guns than people), decent clothes, good music, a fast car, a big meal once in awhile, and be able to spin the cap off a fresh bottle of whiskey when he needs to forget how shitty his life is, even when he is walking around in his thirty dollar shoes.
I’ve had a much better start, middle, and hopefully, finish to my life than what Jack and Billy experienced.
Billy and Jack end up incarcerated in the same prison and, in fact, the same cell.
Hard Rain Falliing was his first novel, published in 1966.Hard Rain Falling - A clear, honest story of Jack Levitt, a young man abused and brutalized in his years growing up in an orphanage and, after running away to Portland, Oregon at age sixteen, living his hardscrabble life among his buddies and cheap whores, in and out of sleazy pool halls, dilapidated boarding houses and hotels, reform school and prison, lots of prison, all the while drinking whiskey and fist fighting his way through seething anger and rage.
It merely is.When Jack and Billy meet again in San Quentin, after equally heartbreaking paths, Jack further into crime and violence, Billy with an aborted attempt to maintain a family, the relationship takes on a searing intimacy and naked vulnerability that is found nowhere else in the book and that is unlike anything else I’ve read in 1960’s American Literature.If Hard Rain Falling was merely a prison/coming of age novel it would be a wonderful success-it is a model of clarity, brevity and precise observation.
wanted us to rank them from 1 - 20 in order of importance.
he looked out at the class and said 'anyone who didn't raise their hand is an idiot'.
he handed out the syllabus and went into all the class requirement bullshit.
most of the kids thought he was a typical teacher asshole but all that 'happy' and 'idiot' palaver stuck with some of us.i love love love lerve luff looooooove hard rain falling.
let's make it the next goodreads cause célèbre, yeah?
let's resist the temptation to be mannered and reasonable and not shout our heads off so as not to feel like an asshole later, ok?
(But -- to rephrase Woody Allen -- even a second-rate blowjob is a-okay in my book.) What I am saying is that there is a messiness in life that literature and art (necessarily) tidies up.
But I think Hard Rain Falling contends with this messiness to a greater extent than do most novels of its era.
An average black man's life isn't structured like a novel about racism (as an issue to be foregrounded), and Carpenter recognizes that.
But this is real life, and I think Don Carpenter does an admirable job of approaching it in a way no author of his generation did.
Though it is hard to categorize this novel(it might not be necessary),I'd say it is more of a human 
I've been having this Western problem lately, maybe the last year or so, where I've been reading good books.
I mean, I've been reading books that are good.
I can't talk this book up enough, but I will asterisk my vehemence with the fact that it was just high-time I read something just exactly like this exact book, so my bias in its favor can not be overstated.
It is tragic and lovely and hopeful and crushing and you should just read it, ok?On the cover: people always talk about these NYRBs like they are so pretty, and more often than not, they certainly are.
If you want to know more about plot, read the book.
When a book starts with a line which is immediately reminiscent of Infinite Jest, then it’s alright to have some unrestrained expectations from it.   They can kill you, but they can’t eat you. But with Hard Rain Falling I had to keep a lot many things in mind before letting my expectations go out of hand and to eventually give what I may immodestly pronounce as a fair reaction. The fact that this book was written in 1960’s was something I constantly reminded myself. It helped when I came across
When a book starts with a line which is immediately reminiscent of Infinite Jest, then it’s alright to have some unrestrained expectations from it.
But with Hard Rain Falling I had to keep a lot many things in mind before letting my expectations go out of hand and to eventually give what I may immodestly pronounce as a fair reaction.
This went on for almost halfway through the novel because I was coming across one thing or the other I have either read or seen before.
The internal monologues are good, again thanks to the honesty of Don’s writing but at times most of the things read like the paraphrasing of the same ideas.
Only children can be utterly consuming love objects, though far too often they aren't.
Far too scary to love unguardedly, I think, but most don't even get near to the guardrails before swerving back to the middle of the road.It's the carnage from their fear-driven lurches that takes out the innocent bystanders.
That's what this story is: The record of Jack's fear-driven, rage-fueled lurchings back and forth as love ungiven, ungivable, rots him from within, taking an agonizingly slow time to finish its dreadful work.A dark and terrible story about a life unlived, only sweated out.
How much emotional strength does a man have, and does it matter?Hard Rain Falling might be as stark and uncompromising a novel as I’ve ever read.
Jack’s post-incarceration search for meaning comprise the novel’s last third.Carpenter’s talents lie in his psychological analysis of desperate, dead-end characters; his reference to Jack reading classic Russian novels is no accident.
Read Hard Rain Falling when you’re ready to explore the darkness of prison, isolation, and the unfairness of existence.
Hard Rain Falling covers vast and desolate territory.
Out of the wild action, truth is delivered with clear-eyed lucidity and although the characters talk of self-pity quite a bit, the truth is clean of it.
When there was only one thing, really, that made you feel good, and now you’ve done that so many times it’s like masturbating.
If I had to boil this down, Hard Rain Falling is immensity.
Jack had the right idea; his first reaction to the immensity of the ocean was to smile, wild with curiosity.
The hotel might be a "glittering trap" for the bored and lonely, but that was a hell of a lot different from being sent to prison.He gets out, meets Sally.
Why, to a production of Waiting for Godot, of course.When they left the theater and she began talking about Beckett's use of language, Jack interrupted her and said, "Hell, it seems simple enough to me.
What did you want?""It's not that simple," she said, but she wasn't sure why it was not that simple."I've done a lot of that waiting jazz," Jack said.
Maybe he looked around and saw that everybody was imprisoned by Oakland, by their own small neighborhoods; everybody was breathing the same air, inheriting the same seats in school, taking the same stale jobs as their fathers and living in the same shabby stucco homes.
Maybe he was afraid that he too would become one of these grown people whose faces were blank and lonely, and he too would have to satisfy himself with a house in the neighborhood and one of the girls from high school and a job in one or another factory and just sit there and die of it.
but not the cream either -- and that what they are republishing often are the second and third level books...
of first-rate writers or first-rate books of second (or third-rate) writers...
The books look great, though -- and so I buy them...
but they don't always live up to the hype.Some of the reviews I saw of this one (more on AMZN than on GR) led me to think that this one, too, might not quite live up to the hype, and so it sat around for a couple of years...
and...What especially caught me is the way the book, as it moves from the 1930s to the 1960's captures the feel of those changing times...
I recently read an article about Haruki Murakami and his writing process wherein he divided writers into two distinct categories; you’re either an architect or a gardener.
The obvious distinction being that an architect plans out every aspect of their story in advance, whereas a gardener starts out with an idea, and waits to see where it goes.
Therefore, I thought Carpenter was asking a lot of his readers by accepting certain developments in Jack’s character in the last 1/3 of the book, namely his newly self-aware, philosophical tendencies, his interests in literature, and his feelings on raising children.
First published in 1966, Don Carpenter's hard-hitting existential tale of young hustlers follows the adventures of Jack Levitt, an orphaned teenager living off his wits in the fleabag hotels and seedy pool halls of Portland, Oregon.
Jack befriends Billy Lancing, a young black runaway and pool hustler extraordinaire.
But neither Jack nor Billy can escape their troubled pasts, seeking redemption when they meet again in San Quentin before their strange double drama comes to a violent and revelatory end.
Often savage but never cynical, Carpenter had written a gem of a novel, an American masterpiece of fiction?, maybe it is, it certainly left an impression on me.
This book was initially published in 1966, but was resurrected by George Pelecanos and published anew in 2009 by New York Review Books as part of its Classics series.
Jack and Billy both spend a great deal of time contemplating their own lives and the nature of life in general, and there are times when Carpenter extends these ruminations for a bit longer than he should.
This is very much a book of the early 1960s, and the universe that Carpenter has recreated here is long since gone.
But readers will be grateful to George Pelecanos and New York Review Books for giving them the opportunity to visit it from a safe distance.
The book blurb says it's a "Dostoyevskian tale of crime, punishment, and the pursuit of an ever-elusive redemption," but Jack Levitt, the protagonist, is far from feeling the psychological guilt of Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment.
Jack's amorality is purely human, completely understandable, and has nothing to do with God, the devil, or the possibility of the afterlife.
Early in his life, there was not much to love about Jack Levitt, but by the final scene I feel nothing but hope and compassion for him.His time in San Quentin is brilliantly done.
The loneliness, the dangerous social systems, race, work details, prison sex - it's all here, written without contrivance.
Never before have I read a novel that was so true, so raw and so heartbreaking, I was often filled with dread and anxiety for the characters in Hard Rain Falling, because they are flawed and can’t escape who and what they are no matter how hopeful they are, they keep failing in life and it’s as if their doomed from the start.
All of this is pretty depressing but I feel Don Carpenter was writing about as realistic as possible, the American Dream simply doesn’t include everyone, and some are far worse off then others.
The sad and very poignant story of Jack Levitt, who starts his life in an orphanage and struggles his whole life to rise above the hand that fate has dealt him.
But it's also a book of mateship, love and redemption that are found found where Jack least expects it.Jack's struggle against fate, his anger, his search for meaning and his relationship with Billy is told beautifully and honestly.It's a sad and melancholy novel but one that will draw you into Jack's world and stay with you.
Take a chance on this novel, you'll be surprised.
Don Carpenter does not appear to be an author revelling in fame.
However if the quality of his novel Hard Rain Falling is an accurate compass, he should probably be considered one of the great 20th century American authors.
Hard Rain Falling is simply brilliant.
Written completely without ostentation or pretence, it is a rigorous study of the suffering and isolation of those who are born without the benefit of good fortune.
For some reason from this moment, I was absolutely there, something about the unflashy prose had worked its way into me, it was more than just a good book, it was great, I was getting in the crowded car with them, Billy sitting on Jack Levitt's lap - the only place he could sit - he said, 'now every time we go over a bump, you owe me a dollar'.
Considering its initial publication date of 1966, it’s also a novel much ahead of its time in the way that the author deals with racism, homosexuality and the harshness of unreasoned authority.The main character is Jack Levitt, whose parents were young and stupid when he was born, leaving him in a hellhole of an orphanage.
It is there he meets up again with Billy Lancing, who maneuvers things so that he and Levitt become cell mates, and what starts out as just prison sex turns into something else, a human and feeling connection between the two, although Jack can't bring himself to admit it until it's too late and Jack is once more in the depths of loneliness.
Oh, he's in a few other prisons beforehand and it looks like Carpenter did time in the Big House, too -- or so the precise description of Jack's time in the complete darkness of solitary would indicate.
Billy winds up in prison, too, where he becomes Jack's cellmate.
The way it's described here, Billy and Jack take a long time to come to it, but they're both in their 20s and feeling the heat, so Door Number 3 it is!Carpenter describes it like so: "It was an arrangement, coldly conceived for sexual satisfaction, without even words that first time, but limited by coldly precise and rational language from there on out.
My exact words when I closed the book after finishing it:"This book was dumb."There you go.
I’d never heard of 'Hard Rain Falling', nor indeed of Don Carpenter, however I noticed that George Pelecanos had written then introduction, and took this to be an endorsement and so grabbed a copy.It's a superb read.
Very good.The novel follows the adventures of Jack Levitt, an orphaned teenager living off his wits in the fleabag hotels and seedy pool halls of Portland, Oregon.
Jack befriends Billy Lancing, a young black runaway and pool hustler extraordinaire.
'Hard Rain Falling' is a modern classic.5/5
i wondered what came next here, but i didn't mind.when he took his life at the age of 64 don carpenter was at work on a final book called FRIDAYS AT ENRICO's about his particular san franciscio literary scene.
the obits report that carpenter was badly effected by his friend brautigan's suicide.
here's a memorial written by carpenter about their friendship.here's an interview with NYRB editor edwin frank about how the reprint came about -- mostly it seems from the support of george pelecanos.and here's pelecanos reading from HARD RAIN FALLING.pick it up from the library or from the publisher.
For Don Carpenter certainly knew where to find pool joints of ill fame in the US West Coast and spent days looking at the fellows playing there, but - most importantly - he knew how to write a eight ball of a first novel at the age of 33.
Levitt and Lancing are actually pretty distasteful cats at the beginning of the novel, but Carpenter let them be and somehow they both grew on me.
'Hard Rain Falling' is a book about outcasts looking for something they're not fully aware of: their real selves.
Why couldn't these criminals simply decide to not do the things they did?Hard Rain Falling provides some portion of understanding into who these people might be through its main character, Jack Levitt.
If Jack Levitt was an outcast of society, then the only real reason for his position in life was the randomness associated with his creation.The strength of this book rests in the intricate development of its characters in the first two parts of the book.
This duplicity of perspective was engrossing and it makes Hard Rain Falling into a reading experience.The book's shortcomings rest in the third and final part.
Something was lost after San Quentin and, whilst there were certainly flashes of the earlier brilliance ...
..., the last third lost focus.
Who knew Americans played snooker?"Jack and Denny had ditched the Cadillac ...
They had even wiped their fingerprints off it, feeling both sheepish and hip.""All of the whores Jack had known very well, no matter how cool and businesslike, turned hysterical in the end,""It made him feel better, not worse, to see her looking so young and almost innocent.
Not really innocent; there was still that expression of rapacious stupidity around her eyes, makeup or not."
