https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28243032-we-are-okay
Which is a pretty big thing to say, I suppose.What I really appreciated was that Nina LaCour abandoned the idea that a novel has to be entirely plot driven.
I loved that it took place in winter, on an abandoned university campus, where everything amplified Marin's feelings of emptiness and isolation.
I also really enjoyed that there was lots of cross-generational relationships - teenagers, parents, grandparents - because sometimes YA feels like a bizarre teen-only world.I'm giving this 4 stars because I don't think it was my perfect book.
WOW.
this was definitely a slower paced book, but SO beautifully written and very powerful in a quiet kind of way.
an emotional and complex exploration of grief and loneliness and healing and disillusionment.
i am very much looking forward to reading more by nina lacour, because while i did really like this book, i personally tend to enjoy stories that are more light-hearted, so some of her other books sound a little more my style (like "everything leads to you" which i already own so i'm bumping it up the TBR!)if you've loved books by john green and jandy nelson and gayle forman, or if you're in the mood for a gorgeously written book that's both melancholic and healing, i would definitely recommend this!
Do you ever think about a book and then wonder what the last person who also read it and related to it was doing or if they were okay?Because right now I want to write something but I honestly don't know what to say.
And I swear it's like every book makes me sad in a different way but really...it’s all the same.
That you can be content and happy but little twinges of sadness will always seep in and it’s okay, because happiness has never been a fixed point in one’s life and life is just a series of challenges and ups and downs and you must learn to go with the flow.That it can be hard and it's another day in the bathroom stall, sobbing for five minutes.
So I’m definitely glad I enjoyed the story, because otherwise I would have felt morally obliged to donate the book.
This is a book about family, first love, grief and solitude.
Mabel is three thousand miles away, with a new boyfriend, and Marin isn’t ready to open up to anyone.I could feel Marin’s fragility and loneliness in every word.
Tear them to shreds.Fortunately, sensing something is wrong with her friend and former girlfriend, Mabel visits Marin at college for three days.
Will this encourage her to talk about her past and feelings?If I had to choose one word to describe this story, I would say it’s ‘‘quiet.’’ Tranquil.
This book was everything to me.  "'Finish each day and be done with it. You have done what you could. Some blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in; forget them as soon as you can."' •••••••••• You go through life thinking there's so much you need. Your favorite jeans and sweater. The jacket with the faux-fur lining to keep you warm. Your phone and your music and your favorite books. Mascara. Irish Breakfast tea and cappuccinos from Trouble Coffee. You need your yearbooks, every stiffly posed
You go through life thinking there's so much you need.
Your phone and your music and your favorite books.
You need your notebooks full of the things you learned and don't want to forget.
You need your underwear, your light-colored bras and your black ones.
"The airport," I said, and we pulled away.
You think you need all of it.
Will Marin share the reasons why she left everything, everyone?I can't believe I have had this book for so long and just now found out what a jem I had.
It went straight to my favorites list.
I'm going to do some things that were in the book.
Mabel is coming to visit, and Marin will be forced to face everything that’s been left unsaid and finally confront the loneliness that has made a home in her heart.“If our past selves got a glimpse of us now, what would they make of us?”This book came so unexpectedly into my life, but I'm eternally grateful that it did so.
I just loved how certain scenes drew a perfectly fitting picture in my mind.Exhibit A:“She leans over our table and turns the sign in the window so that it says CLOSED on the outside.
“If only I had something to take the edge off the loneliness. If only lonely were a more accurate word. It should sound much less pretty.”  This book is a quiet heartbreak.  It is not an action-packed story, it’s crafted with immense subtlety, it’s not going to make you scream at One Specific Significant line. It is a book to feel, a book to hurt, and a book to heal. The thing I keep coming back to about this book is the  character development.  This is a book about the regret of Marin; Marin a
Her friend, her maybe something, who she has lost.
But I think it’s a book worth reading.
This is a book about learning the people you used to love were something beyond what you believed them to be.
It is a book about learning to move on.
I’ve been trying to understand for months how I felt about this book because I think sitting on something like this is absolutely essential.
We Are Okay is an incredibly slow, an incredibly quiet, an incredibly subtle story, but thinking back on my experience reading it two years ago, I feel like crying.
Because I’m currently thirty-seven months away from achieving the “sole Goodreads admin” phase of my eighteen-step world domination program, and when that happens it literally will be impossible for you to give one star to the greatest book of all time.If you think about it, I’m really just being considerate.But back to this point I’m procrastinating.Here’s what I’m trying to sidestep, but will eventually just have to come out and say in some way, shape, or form, and I may as well do so succinctly and now:If you don’t like this book, I think you’re wrong.The major complaint I’ve seen about it is that it’s “boring.” And I get that.
[4.5 stars] I'm crying buckets. I haven't cried this much over a book since I finished reading A Court of Wings and Ruin. This book was stunning. Absolutely stunning. I felt every single word. Some of them were just outright painful, but I was connected, grieving alongside Marin.It is an incredible story about a girl who's coming to terms with the death of her grandfather and her losses in life, which she's experienced so much of so young. Such a short book, but so beautifully impactful.
Expectation: A new favorite.Reality: A new favorite.*throws five stars at the book from the floor, where he is a sobbing mess*
I was drawn to this book from the first time I saw it.
I knew parts of this book took place in the SF Bay Area...
parts in New York....plus I had read that the author, Nina LaCour, lives in Oakland, Ca. I was 'jazzed'.
I knew early on that I didn't want to say goodbye to MARIN!!!
.....of the summer between my Senior Year in High School and College .....of living alone with only my mother -passing each other like distant roommates.
A summer I got lost in time, when I rarely knew what day it was, rarely cared about the hour.
✨ My full review is now up on my blog! ✨➳ 3 1/2 stars … I am not okay.*This book’s title sounds like something I tell people when in reality it’s the exact opposite of what I am.
3,5 stars
Whyyyyyyy did I put off reading this for so long? I adored it.
I'll start out by saying that I never originally intended to read this book, but I received a copy in the mail a few days ago from Penguin and it's super short, so I decided to give it a go.(I sort of wish I hadn't)This book was way too over the top on the melodrama for me...
If you want to read a great Nina LaCour book, I highly HIGHLY recommend Everything Leads to You because it has a strong plot and great characters, where this one did not in my opinion.The one thing I will say that I really appreciated about this book was how it was super diverse but not in an in-your-face type of way.
It's really centered around emotion - Marin's feelings which become clearer to us as we read, allowing us to learn her truths.
I enjoyed the story for what it was but I honestly wasn't blown away by it.
There were parts that dragged a bit for me and with it being such a quick/short read I didn't expect that.
There was so much love, raw emotion & hope within those last few pages.
I just didn't enjoy the entire book as much as I did those last few pages making this one simply a 3 star read for me.
I will learn how to be okay again.”this book feels like a journal to me.
i felt like Nina LaCour just ransacked my bedroom and found my nonexistent journal and was like "hmm well she's sad and gay so let's make a book about that" and the rest is history.i feel like 2018 is the year i finally read books by the authors i've been wanting to read for years.
everything just felt lovely and this is one of my favorite books so far this year.i think it's because i just relate so so much to marin and how she feels inside.
The reader slowly finds out everything as the story goes (it's split between Marin's current life and her past in California).The isolated setting of the dorm in a winter storm painted such an empty, lonely setting to match Marin's mindset and her reasons for her connection with Jane Eyre.
That mindset is actually one of the reasons I took a star off, though...
BUT the reasons I didn't enjoy it as much would probably be viewed as a strength of this book by most people!I did like how the romance wasn't the focus of the story, yet their relationship still had a lot of depth.
“If only lonely were a more accurate word.
We Are Okay may be a quiet book, but its force will tear you apart and put you back together again.
It will give room to your grief, then stroke your hair, hug you tightly and warm your heart piece by piece.By the first page, I was already lost between the pages of this book.
By page sixty I had nearly burst into tears in public three times.
I savoured every single sentence, every word.
This book tells the story of loss, grief, and loneliness.
The silence of a heart too hurt to remember the past.
I kept thinking that there was no way that the twist was going to be a big enough one to be worth spending the entire book drawing the scenario out, but without spoiling anything, I will just say that I was pleasantly stunned by the ending.I didn't realize this was an LGBTQ+ book when I picked it up - because I have somehow been living under a rock and had no idea that Nina LaCour was an LGBTQ+ own-voices author - so I was taken off-guard early in the book when the reveal occurred that Mabel was not only a former best friend, but also a former lover; the detail gave a really nice taste of tension to her entire visit, and kept me guessing as to how their relationship would end up.The writing itself was enjoyable, though nothing truly remarkable; Marin is a likable narrator who has made some questionable choices, but not without reason.
Life is paper-thin and fragile. Any sudden change could rip it wide-open.  Seems like I'm getting books based on loneliness in this month. Anyway, this book was fine. Having no certain plot but still not a bad book.   CHARACTERS Marin (the main character & orphan & raised by her grandfather).Mabel (her best friend).The book mostly revolves arround them. This book is about Marin living in dorms even though it's winter break. She doesn't go back to her home because she doesn't wanna res
Seems like I'm getting books based on loneliness in this month.
Anyway, this book was fine.
Having no certain plot but still not a bad book.
Marin (the main character & orphan & raised by her grandfather).Mabel (her best friend).The book mostly revolves arround them.
This book is about Marin living in dorms even though it's winter break.
Mabel comes to visit her to get to know the reason why she disappeared all of a sudden.》I think the book started pretty slow.
Like reeealy slow.
》The writing was pretty good and straightforward.
(hide spoiler)]It was a fine book.
If I were to ever marry a book cover, it would be this one.
This was good! I liked the characters and their relationships a lot. The writing style was very nice as well.*very minor spoiler ahead I guess??*The ending was a little too good to be true in my opinion but other than that I really enjoyed it. (Well, I don't know what else to say. I'm much better at writing reviews about books I didn't like lol)
I'm so glad I didn't because honestly this book was lovely and melancholic and strangely beautiful and I genuinely enjoyed reading it!!
I can understand why some people would find it boring because it is definitely slow; it isn't a plot heavy book, it's about the main character and her struggle with grief.Grief is such a powerful human experience to read about and the prose in this book completely nailed what it's like to feel alone in the aftermath of a big loss.
This is a book about sadness. I wonder if we will become okay again. I hope for it. This is a book about sadness. It's a book about pain and loss and love and death. It's about the death of a grandfather. It's about the death of a spirit. It's a book about family - and about Marin's dead mother. It's about Jones and Birdie and Ben and Laney and Hannah and Mabel. I wonder if there’s a secret current that connects people who have lost something. Not in the way that everyone loses something, but in
I wonder if we will become okay again.
It's a book about pain and loss and love and death.
It's a book about family - and about Marin's dead mother.
I wonder if there’s a secret current that connects people who have lost something.
It's a book about getting better.
It's a book about taking care of yourself.
I breathe in (stars and sky).
This is a book about sadness.
This is a book about sadness.
This is a book about sadness.
This is a book about sadness.
It's a book about coping with grief.
We are okay.
We are okay.
She has these plot elements that happen that are so unrealistic and I find myself get frustrated because her writing is incredible and I want the plot to live up to that writing.Anyway, the end was amazing and I sobbed.
Marin was a wonderful character and I loved how lonely and aching this entire book felt.
And I will be doing a full video review in the next couple of weeks to talk a bit more about how I felt!*Thanks to Penguin Teen for sending along a copy of this book!
Me cuesta la vida darle cinco estrellas a un libro, pero es que este se las merece.
A pesar de ser tan corto es un libro lento, de los que te van descubriendo cosas poco a poco.
De los que te dejan con las ganas, y no descubren toda la verdad hasta el final.
Que a ver, está muy en la mierda, pero tiene una forma de ser tan soft que me encanta.
Y no sé, que me encanta.Es un libro muy triste.
Desde que lo empiezas hasta que lo acabas, te hace sentir triste.
In silence and in loneliness she keeps the tragedy to herself, but now her childhood friend Mabel comes to visit, Marin finally has to face her past and her emotions.
“The trouble with denial is that when the truth comes, you aren't ready.” This is a book about grief, loss, and solitude, but if I had to describe this story in one word, I would say “quiet”.
By switching between the college dorm in New York and San Francisco in the summer four months earlier, we slowly dig that chest up, and find out why Marin rather wants to keep things hidden.
I'm a huge fan of Nina LaCour's words, so as soon as I saw We Are Okay, I downloaded it.
I had absolutely no idea what it was about.Marin is a wonderful character.
The prose is gorgeous {but of course, it's Nina} and the friendship between Marin and Mabel is broken and so honest.If you're not reading Nina's words, you should be.
And you should start with this one, because I think it's the best thing she's written.**Huge thanks to Dutton Books and Edelweiss for providing the arc in exchange for an honest review**
It's about grief, regrowing, uncovering truth within your family, and recovery.
The writing was awesome and impactful, the tone of the story was completely dreamlike, and I enjoyed the subject matter.However, it employs a type of storytelling that isn't my favorite--a back and forth jump between "then" and "now"-- and also, since this book deals a lot with memory and inner monologue rather than action, its pace felt a bit sluggish.
Either way, I think it's a great story, but it's for someone who wants to read a contemporary with deeper meaning and tragic themes about loss of a family member.
