https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3128411-bone-crossed
If there is one reason why I love this series - MERCY THOMPSON…  I want to be her best friend. She’s an amazing character – brave, strong, humble, feisty, loyal, and she’s a mechanic with a fabulous car!!!!And then there’s her relationship with wolf shape shifter, Adam Hauptman!!! He’s a total alpha male…possessive, arrogant, brave but he doesn’t take over Mercy’s life……….he respects and admires her…and of course he’s totally in love with her…..swoon….what a man!!!  I love the world the author h
She’s an amazing character – brave, strong, humble, feisty, loyal, and she’s a mechanic with a fabulous car!!!!And then there’s her relationship with wolf shape shifter, Adam Hauptman!!!
I love the world the author has created filled with fantasy characters - shape shifters, fae, vampires, werewolves, coyotes that makes this series truly addictive.Her character development is incredible and some of the secondary characters have really engaging and endearing….Stefan, Mercy’s vampire friend, Samuel, Mercy’s mother!!!Bones Crossed, the 4th book in this series has an engrossing storyline that kept me captivated until the last page.
I can’t wait to get more of Mercy Thompson!!
This fourth book in the MERCY THOMPSON series is my favorite one yet, with tight, intense plotting and an imaginative story line that deftly mixes together ghosts, vampire conspiracies and power games, and fae artifacts all playing role in the plot, along with Mercy’s developing relationship with the long-suffering Adam.
Patricia Briggs manages to blend these elements together in a way that not only makes sense but is deeply satisfying.It’s a particular strength in this series that Mercy ― as well as other characters ― don’t get to simply dance through life without paying the fiddler.
At the end of Iron Kissed, there were at least two significant events that needed follow-up and I would have been disappointed in Briggs as a writer and as a woman if she didn't allow her character recovery time.Mercy's attempting to manage her panic attacks when she gets a surprise visit from her mom that unfortunately coincides with a drop-in visit from Stefen, hungry and emaciated.
Still, there's some strange authorial choices--Stefan, Mercy's mom and Amber all showing up at the same time?
I think it ended up contributing to me dropping the series, because in between life-threatening events, it's mostly about Mercy's emotions surrounding her male relationships.
But I do love knowing that I have a guaranteed read when I reach for one of her books.Mercy is definitely near the top of my list of fictional characters I think I would love to have as a friend in real life.
I must say that I was happy as a clam, since I love fantasy like a house on fire, but I also have an appreciation for old school/classic horror and an old-fashioned ghost story.Can I take the time to gush over the men in Mercy's life?
I liked how Briggs develops Mercy's friendship with Stefan much more in this book (it was more assumed at the beginning).
Great PNR series. If you loved the Fever series and the Kate Daniels series, you'll love Mercy Thompson (and Adam...yum).
There's good news and bad news in Mercy's latest adventure and just when you think things will settle down, BAM, there's someone new looking to mess with Mercy's peace.Mercy is still recovering from her brutal rape at the hands of a fae 'possessed' wacko.
The good news is he's willing to wait and help her recover.
That means the vampire Queen is aware that Mercy managed to kill not one, but two of her creatures...and now she wants Mercy's blood, and not just for a snack.I think my heart rate is still elevated after this one.
After all, one doesn't heal immediately from the events at the end of Iron Kissed.Even though Mercy spends some time away from the Tri-Cities, we get plenty of development with her relationships - with everyone.
And I love that.Original Review:Mercy's barely a week out from the tragic events that happened at the end of Iron Kissed when Stefan pops in at her feet, a blackened husk, whispering "She knows."With vampires stalking her steps and pressing vague attacks on the werewolves in her life, Mercy decides to take a trip to help a friend with a ghost.
I really liked this book, this series gets better and better actually. The cast is filling out nicely, and although there were a few plot twists that were a little obscure, whatever. Nice emotional arc for the character, I really enjoyed it, hardback purchase justified!!
This is definitely one of my all time favorite series and I honestly believe that everyone who hasn't read these books yet should run to the bookstore right away and buy them up.
This is the fourth book in the Mercy Thompson series and it picks up right after the events of the previous book.
It is really important that this series be read in order since some of the events are carried over from the previous book.
Stefan plays a large role in this book and really proved how much he cares for Mercy as well.I love Lorelei King's narration of this series.
After the horrible and devastating experiences Mercy had in the last book, the author decided that she, as well as us, the readers, need a bit of recovery and regrouping time.
The focus of the story this time was on Mercy getting over the emotional trauma, which had left her with paralyzing panic attacks at random moments and her almost aversion to touch...
Reading this was not as easy and engaging as the previous book, but it was layered with characters, feelings and situations with which I am sure the author is laying the foundation for the stories to come.
Have a fun time reading to all!!!
Poor Mercy! She doesn't get much of a break from her ordeal in the previous book before she's back in the action. She seems to be the catalyst for trouble. The magic world continues to gain new depth as the books continue, each new insight building on what we know from the previous books. And then of course there's Adam and Mercy...another excellent read.This series is a slow burner. I wasn't that impressed with the first book, the second was better, the third a big wowser and SOLD!
Mercy manages to attract a lot of trouble and chaos, I guess that might be part of her nature as a Coyote.
After the events of the last book Mercy suffers panic attacks and some hesitatancy even though she knows Adam would never hurt her, but all that takes a back seat when Marsilia finds out about Andre.
Trying to figure out a way to keep the Pack safe and alive becomes her priority.
However, Mercy and her wolves shouldn't be underestimated.There's an uneasiness with the Pack because of Mercy, something that factors into future stories.
Love how Adam always has her back!
First let me state how appalled I am by the fact that Briggs allowed her rapped heroine to have sex only a week after her rape.
Second, Briggs wrote far too many inconsistencies for me to believe that Mercy was either traumatized or healing from her rape.
And further shame to Briggs for dragging out a sex scene between Adam and Mercy for four books, only to have it fade to black.
You annoyed me Ms. Briggs, and this was your second chance.
Having not read the first three books the first time, I was completely lost to what was happening.
This time around though, everything was in perspective and I found that this book was a lot “lighter” in terms of the banter between characters.
Yuck!But the biggest thing about this book is probably the relationship between Mercy and Adam.
There’s something unique about Briggs’ writing because even though she holds off on the sex, people still read it!
There’s so much more to Mercy and her world than just her relationships.
(Isn’t that a great collective noun for vampires?) This is also the book that sees Mercy make her choice between werewolves Adam and Samuel.
She is extremely fortunate to have Stefan as a friend & protector and I hope this means that he will continue to appear in future volumes.I still maintain that Mercy needs some women friends, and not like her friend Amber who shows up in this installment.
She needs some strong, good women in her life to help her sort out all the demanding men in her world.Once again, the cover art makes me shake my head.
The fourth book in the Mercy Thompson series and am still not blown away but I can’t stop reading it for some reason, I wonder why. This had more mystery than the other books but they all seem to follow the same pattern.Mercy gets in trouble, thinks about her love life a little and then manages to save herself almost at the last minute.The thoughts of possession/the acts of possessing a person in this book were so high. She belongs to that person blah blah blah.It was an entertaining read though.
She is done fighting for her independence, and just accepts all the decisions that Adam makes for her where she would have at least argued one or two books ago.
Adam realizes why she is panicking, and without giving Mercy a choice, performs the ceremony that makes her pack, which breaks the connection to Stefan.
Thank you for making the tough calls, for giving me time.
Thank you for loving me."WHY THANK YOU ADAM FOR MAKING ALL MY FUCKING DECISIONS FOR ME.This is how much Mercy has changed.
Why is there always a drop in quality when these series move into hardback?First of all, this book picks up right where the previous one left off, as if the action had been uninterrupted.
It didn't feel like an opening chapter, but rather like I had opened a book in the middle and picked a chapter at random.
The emotional intensity of the earlier books is missing here, particularly in Mercy's interaction with Stefan.
The book is too short and too crowded with characters for the author to spend enough time on any one of them.
But nothing is as it seems and Mercy soon finds she has jumped out of the frying pan straight into the fire.I'm a big fan of Patricia Briggs and love the Mercy Thompson series so was really looking forward to reading Bone Crossed & I wasn't disappointed.
We didn't see that much of Samuel either but that was more understandable considering the plot but we get to see a lot of Adam so that makes up for it!If you're yet to discover the Mercy Thompson series then I would highly recommend it to urban fantasy fans.
Yay, Stefan's back in this book! Since he is my favorite character in the series, I seriously missed him in the last book. And, he is better than ever.  "Want to explain to the kid that I'm more a Spike than a Buffy? A villain, not a superhero?"I batted my eyelashes at him. "You're my hero."..."I'm no one's hero, Mercy."I turned my face until I was looking directly at Chad. "Do you think that means I won't get to see him in spandex?"... Chad made a yuck face."hey," I told them, "watching good-lo
She has panic attacks and flashbacks, but still, I would say that it would have been much better to just not have the whole rape thing in the storyline because I feel like it is way too light to be respectful of real rape victims.
This propels Mercy in to leaving town, right in to the clutches of a whole new set of problems - and things that want to kill her.
This girl has a hella lot of creatures that want to kill her!I liked the overall plotline, but mostly liked Stefan in the book, along with the little boy.

I do love Lorelai King's audio for this series, but the series itself isn't doing much for me.
This installment sees Mercy tangle with a few ghosts and more vampires -- the vampires in particular are melodramatic and long-winded.
I very much enjoyed meeting Chad; it's so rare to find deaf characters.
The ghosts and fae were my favorite parts (especially that oak tree).
I'm definitely more invested in the Alpha & Omega series (which still floors me bc PNR is NOT my thing and A&O is certainly more lovey-dovey than Mercy).
Mercy, it's been swell.
It had the same kind of mystery plot as the other books, but with the added extra of Adam and Mercy trying making the first forage into their relationship.
Mercy is now a firmly one of my favourite heroines, the plot was interesting and kept me guessing and Adam was wicked hot.
For me this series gets better and better as you learn more and more about paranormal world the Mercy seems to keep getting mixed up in.I do seem to be developing another crush as well, does anyone else have the hots for Bran?
1st Read: 15 July, 2012I like almost all the characters in this series, isn't that weird?!2nd read: 24-25 June, 2015I love the series.
This book walks back the very worst of the last book, then wanders along through your standard issue urban fantasy plot, with extra werewolf mating.
It would be unexceptionable, if only Briggs didn't keep trying to have, you know, issues.
I am done patting authors on the back for remembering to include the effects of trauma at all -- now try doing it better.Oh, and did I mention there's a deaf boy in this book?
Stop playing issue bingo and go back to writing a fun and pleasant little urban fantasy series.
We have Mercy still dealing with being raped in the last book.
Mercy killed one of Marsilla's people so she leaves crossed bones above her place of business letting everyone know that her days are numbered.
I do feel bad in this one that we finally have Mercy with an older female friend (Amber) who she hasn't seen in years.
We all know that Mercy can see ghosts and as she showed in Blood Bound, is able to get rid of them too.
She's been all up in Pack business for the last 5 or 6 books and it's getting old.
With what is going on in my life right now, I didn’t want to deal with Mercy’s “recovery.” Thus, I was a little leery.) However, I was lured back to this marvelous series by people wanting to do a “buddy read” – only to have them have crises and other Real Life commitments take them away after the first four chapters!Well, if Mercy can be brave, so can I.
Don’t you agree?◈	I had a small medium-sized beef with one thing (view spoiler)[ a ghost can drink blood?
“One of the oddest things about being grown-up was looking back at something you thought you knew and finding out the truth of it was completely different from what you had always believed.” Well isn’t that true. Mercy has always felt like she was on the outside looking in and alone. Raised by the wolves she was still never part of the pack, little did she know how important she was to Bran the Alpha of all Alphas. When she accepted Adam as her mate she never really knew what that would mean. N
It is hard to have people in your head when you have felt alone most of your life.Marsila has figured out that Mercy had something to do with the death of her demon raising vampire and is out to get her.
Stefan tags along to look after her while Adam sorts out the problems with Marsila.
This one in particular was interesting because there was the Vampire in Spokane that wants something from Mercy as well as Marsila and her political maneuverings that involve Stefan.
Bone Crossed is not on my top favorites list in this series.
Actually, it is probably my least favorite.Mercy’s mother pays an unexpected visit due to the rape and murder from the previous book.
“And if you call her a rude name, she’ll shoot you with her pretty pink gun and I’ll spit on your grave.”Adam said, “Ben. Meet Mercy’s mother, Margi.”That was the only highlight from this book.
Understanding the fragile situation, he helps Mercy through her panic attacks.An old friend of Mercy’s, Amber, invites Mercy to visit her home.
Bleh.I recommend this book only to mature adults who are reading this series.
