https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88013.Willard_and_His_Bowling_Trophies
The novel has a subtitle – A Perverse Mystery – and this at once catches a zeitgeist of the era it was written in and tells about.
Willard was a papier-mâché bird about three feet tall with long black legs and a partially black body covered with a strange red, white and blue design like nothing you’ve ever seen before, and Willard had an exotic beak like a stork.
His bowling trophies were of course stolen.Richard Brautigan, using his perverse magic, manages to put a postmodernistic spell on all the characters and on all the readers too.Time always tries to steal our trophies…
این کتاباش محشر بود!درباره سه برادر که دنبال جایزه بولینگشونان که توی دو زمان روایت میشه و زندگی دو زوج. توی ماجرای زوج اول که رابطهی عجیبی دارن، بعضی صحنههای معمولیای داره که به شدت احساسیه. پره از طنزای خیلی معرکهی براتیگانی! این کتاب باعث شد فکر کنم که براتیگان رو بیشتر از بوکوفسکی دوست دارم.ترجمهی آقای قدمی معمولن دقیق و خوبه. یکجا هم تهمید جالبی برای فرار از سانسور اتخاذ کرده بودن به این شکل که حروف کلمهی سانسوری رو از انتها به ابتدا نوشته بودن.
این کتاب‌اش محشر بود!درباره سه برادر که دنبال جایزه بولینگ‌شون‌ان که توی دو زمان روایت می‌شه و زندگی دو زوج. توی ماجرای زوج اول که‌ رابطه‌ی عجیبی‌ دارن، بعضی صحنه‌های معمولی‌ای داره که به شدت احساسیه. پره از طنزای خیلی معرکه‌ی براتیگانی! این کتاب باعث شد فکر کنم که براتیگان رو بیشتر از بوکوفسکی دوست دارم.ترجمه‌ی آقای قدمی معمولن دقیق و خوبه. یک‌جا هم تهمید جالبی برای فرار از سانسور اتخاذ کرده بودن به این شکل که حروف کلمه‌ی سانسوری رو از انتها به ابتدا نوشته بودن.
So funny yet so sad. Almost over the top but still entirely plausible. Brautigan was a master of this.
The novel never fails to be absurd and entertaining and oft delves off into near ridiculousness and broad comic hijinks while also being brutally uncomfortable and, in parts, fucking depressing, but depressing in a good way.
And, page by page, pathos and comedy become blurred and mesh and meld into each other within the very same phrase and the surrealistic games Brautigan is so superb at playing take enjoyable advantage of this absurd story of sexual misadventure and the overly passionate seeking of something so simple as a stash of bowling trophies.
This is short, easy to read, entertaining and presents a different style of writing.
But why was this not easy to put down once I started reading it?
For two reasons I think: first, I was eager to find out what the point was, thinking maybe there'll be a really surprising denouement in the end; and second, there was a consistent feeling of accomplishment as almost all chapters one can finish reading each in a minute (or a few seconds!) or so.The sado-masochistic, but funny, sex scenes here do not make this appropriate for kids.
_سرقت مسلحانه بعدی برادران لوگان از پمپ بنزین خیلی آسان بود.
این دفعه دیگر از کتاب کمیک به عنوان اسلحه استفاده نکردند، بلکه کمی پول از اولین سرقت مسلحانه ی پمپ بنزین شان را خرج خرید یک تپانچه کردند، اما هیچ گلوله ای برای اسلحه شان نگرفتند.
چقد این کتابش خوب بود.
بیشتر از این توضیح بدم داستان اسپویل میشه، هرچند از یه جاهایی از کتاب به بعد قابل حدس زدن خواهد بود که در پایان قراره چه اتفاقی بیفته.
Κυκλοφόρησε στα ελληνικά, ως "Ο Γουίλλαρντ και τα τρόπαια του μπόουλινγκ", εκδόσεις Ελεύθερος Τύπος.
most brautigan books are about 70% funny/joyous, and 30% heartbreakingly sad.
Then always with a slight feeling of abstract disgust, he would pull out of her, get up and take the rubber off, carefully not looking at it, with his back to her and leave the room, and he would walk dream-like down the hall to the toilet.
He hated the way the wet warm rubber occupied his hand like a dirty joke from outer space.Carefully looking away, he would drop the rubber into the toilet bowl and flush it, feeling by now terrible as if he had been part of something very obscene."
Reading Willard and his Bowling Trophies, a one-hundred page nothing of sarcastic analysis of the American sex-life, I can only wonder why I'm not studying Brautigan alongsides the likes of Vonnegut and O'Brien; his style of characteristic half-truths intercepted by implausible irony and sprinkled with absurd humor reminds one and often blows away previous works of satiric beauty.Though without the maddening meta-writing, mind-blowingly good self-insertion of Breakfast of Champions, Willard reads with the same ubiquitous message of anomaly.
I was cleaning out my library this morning and came upon the hard copy of this novel, purchased from the remainder bin of Powells books in Portland, Oregon in 1981.
Written in 1975, this strange little novel of three crazy brothers ("the Logans") on a personal Jihad to recover their stolen bowling trophies and visit vengeance on those who have committed such a sacrilege, was written in what seems to have been the "twilight" phase Richard Brautigan's literary career.
For me, the story of this book is one of personal irony: pay good money for something in 1981 in Portland, Oregon only to drag it across the continent to Florida and give it away 35 years later.

This strange retro-type novel is something like Eating Raoul plus The Ice Storm. Comical at times, surreal and sad at others, Willard and his Bowling Trophies is original and different and very weird.
И то, как царственно восседал Уиллард среди кегельбанных призов, как он являлся и сиял.Стремление к атрибутам божественного запустило таинственный механизм разрушения судеб братьев Логанов, у которых не было ничего, кроме побед в кегельбан.Непостижимая воля божества, определяющая случайность любой случайности, уберегла одних и привела к гибели других.А другие — как раз самые воплощённые и полнокровные, самые настоящие, самые не-картонные и не плоские персонажи романа — придавленные той сложностью, которой обладает проживание любви напополам, потихоньку отворачивающиеся от регулярности и устроенности, заданности обычной жизни (что показано в книге смешно, нелепо и немного обидно, а вот почему обидно, я говорить не стану), так вот, другие прекращают быть из-за этой случайности.И я плачу о них.
A Selection of Quotes:"'The dice of Love are madnesses and melees.'""No beards." "RRRRRRRRRRRIIIIIIINNNNNNNNGGGGGGGG!!!""They were hollow points. They would tear a nice hole in you and provide you with enough death to last forever.""Willard of course always stayed the same: a papier-mâché bird surrounded by his bowling trophies."
This is tied for my favorite Brautigan (with The Abortian) and yet it's one of his lesser-known works. I found it to be a really funny, quick, and surprisingly perverse read.
Only Richard Brautigan could get me to read gag-inducing paragraphs of awkward sexual moments and detailed descriptions of genital warts.
Quirky succint novella rich with philosophical and existential themes. Both sad and funny. Yep.
Δεν υπάρχει κάποιο νόημα, απλώς είναι μια τρελή ιστορία, με τρελούς χαρακτήρες, που διαβάζεται μονοκοπανιά σε δυο ώρες το πολύ.
Η ιστορία είναι χωρισμένη σε δεκάδες πολύ μικρά κεφάλαια (το μεγαλύτερο ζήτημα να ήταν τρεις σελίδες) και έτσι βλέπουμε την καθημερινότητα των προαναφερθέντων χαρακτήρων.
Τι να σας πω, δεν μπορώ να το περιγράψω, πρέπει να διαβάσετε κάτι δικό του για να καταλάβετε.Προσωπικά μου άρεσε, ήταν ακριβώς αυτό που περίμενα.
After a shaky S&M beginning, where I wasn’t sure I was reading the correct book, I totally fell for it.
I totally fell in love with the older couple.
Poor woman, that scene where she asks for a glass of water and gets a peanut butter sandwich instead probably sums up the state of their relationship pretty well.The use of language is really impressive, too, with the short sentences, the miniscule chapters and their amusing titles.And then there’s the brothers and their quest.
They are only referred to by the actions they are doing and they have a distinct Coen Brothers feel about them.
So far my ranking of Brautigan prose books is as follows, from best to worst:(1) Trout Fishing in America(2) In watermelon Sugar(3) Sombrero FalloutThose are my favourite three, followed by:(4) So the Wind Won't Blow it all Away(5) The Hawkline Monster(6) The Tokyo-Montana ExpressFollowed by some books that are full of great ideas but perhaps don't work as well as they might have done:(7) A Confederate General from Big Sur(8) Dreaming of Babylon(9) Revenge of the LawnAnd two books that are failures, although they are good in parts:(10) The Abortion(11) Willard and his Bowling TrophiesI haven't yet sampled any of his poetry, but I will try to do so in the coming year...
I own and reread this book every year. Richard Brautigan is a simple writer that creates more thinking space for the reader with the less he says. He rather amusing too, in all his books. I don't think many people would agree but this is love story. Whenever I reread it another facet reveals itself which I appreciate.
A veces la prosa es tan simple y tan repetitiva que molesta, otras en cambio maravilla, por lo mismo, por la sencillez, el ritmo de las iteraciones y la elegancia de lo conciso. Es decir que desazona y encandila a partes iguales, siendo la misma, y en no llega a 160 páginas. Pese a todo, sólo puede entenderse como mérito, como logro. "Los dados del Amor son sólo locuras y reyertas"...
Brautigan opět nezklamal, královsky jsem se bavil od začátku dokonnce a žas nad Brautiganovoucfantazí a jeho představami. Nejhezčí věta z celé knihy: ,,Dveře jsou vyrobeny z tajemství."
Reading some biographical background about Brautigan, I was convinced that his rather sad life’s story earned him more consideration, that it would be interesting to see how he’d used his writing as means to transmute his existence.I ventured to buy two more Brautigans, Willard and His Bowling Trophies: A Perverse Mystery and Sombrero Fallout: A Japanese Novel, of which I’ve read only the former.
The story entails a descent into perversion as Bob inherits a type of genital warts from Constance who had a one-night stand, and a similar descent into chaotic violence by the three young Logan brothers, whose bowling trophies were stolen three years before.The chapters mostly alternate between the principals, but sometimes continue in a digression from the previous.
легкий, смешной, абсурдный, точный. пролетел за один день
This is Brautigan at the top of his game, if you ask me.Willard and His Bowling Trophies is a silly, in parts hilarious, short novel which revolves around and goes back and forth between three different stories.First, there is the slowly disintegrating relationship of Bob and Constance in which Bob's memory has gone pear-shaped overnight and they are trying something 'new' to spice it up - sado-masochism.
If you'd like to know what happens to each of the couples, the Logan brothers, Willard and his bowling trophies, then you're going to have to do yourself and Mr. Brautigan a favour, and just read this delightful book.
I didn't finish a book all Spring.
Richard Brautigan is the only thing I can deal with.
He's hilarious and kooky.
Exciting.
Nuts.
Have I talked about how I stayed away from his work intentionally for petty reasons?
I think that wound up being a really good thing.
I'm ready for Brautigan.
It is the time for Brautigan to reach me.
Shout outs to Kaity Jane who beat me to the punch, starting and finishing the book while I was still reading.
Who saw that coming?
Quotes!
from pages 72 and 147 respectively: "Willard and his what?/Bowling trophies/You mean bowling trophies?/Yeah, bowling trophies/What's he doing with them?/Why not?" "They were hollow points.
My first Brautigan. The tale delighted, reading like a children's bedtime story with adult words... Then in one, single, lone, last page, I found myself horrified, distraught, and wounded. As I flipped through the closing blank pages in my copy with disbelief, my guilt nagged me because I allowed myself to read it like it was simply a story, without fully appreciating the literary flesh and blood of Bob and Constance. I still feel (though of course this was hardly the case) that I was the cause of their fate. Incredible. Brautigan wins.
Made me realize there's something that divides depressing books into two groups. Either they are sad because they are about sad things (and are kind of comforting) or because the author himself was so entirely sad while writing the book that his sadness invaded even the smallest, most inconsequential particle and spread throughout. Secondary viremia.
Short read but lots of fun, the book could even have been longer. Most of the story deals with the lead up to a crime, which is the result of the theft of the bowling trophies. Enter the Logan brothers, all american boys who seem to spiral out of control, they seem like a comic trio of criminals. Worth the few hours it takes to read.
