https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2173611.House_of_Many_Ways
Despite that the feel of the thing is quite in keeping with the earlier instalments.Once again we start with a new person and a new part of the world, with Sophie and Howl worked in tangentially about half way through the book.Our protagonist is a young lady called Charmain who is roped into looking after her great aunt's great uncle's house while he's off being treated for some illness.
Much of the first half of the story concerns figuring out how to navigate and use the wizard's house.
(That, ladies and gentlemen, is the closest I come to criticizing DWJ.) To be fair, it was billed as "The sequel to Howl's Moving Castle," which is my favorite book in the world, so my hopes and, to an extent, my expectations, were high.
There's a point later in the book when she seems to decide that she does want to be nice, even going so far as to assure herself that she will be kind to Peter when next she sees him.
Charmain never seems to really care much about Peter, despite the fact that he is nice and they actually have a fair amount in common.
9.8 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Second Suspense – Wonders of LifeGenre: fairytale, fantasyStuff: magic house, royal mystery, young wizardsWOW: characters, plot, humor POV: 3rd person, femaleLove-Geometry: noneQuote-Core:  “You don't need to be nasty to make a mess.” This series is the best ageless mas
Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Second Suspense – Wonders of LifeGenre: fairytale, fantasyStuff: magic house, royal mystery, young wizardsWOW: characters, plot, humor POV: 3rd person, femaleLove-Geometry: noneQuote-Core: 
is a story about a girl named Charmain whose granddad (and a wizard) is ill and she has to take care of his house while he's away.
The house is very dirty (the wizard has been ill for a while and couldn't take care of it), plus soon her granddad's apprentice Peter arrives having no idea that his master is not at home.
Well, I feel a lot of guilt for giving the final chapter of the Castle series a measley 2 stars, but it is what it is.
Charmain was definitely consistent; I don't know about interesting.
What a brat.This series is the only thing by DWJ that I've ever read, but it makes me wonder about what she thinks a good female character is.
While Charmain is settling in, she has a run-in with an evil creature called a lubbock (who is the villian for the whole book) and is annoyed by the presence of Peter, a magically-challenged apprentice waiting for her Great-Uncle to come back.
Certain characters’ cameo appearances will also be more satisfying with the background afforded by reading all three novels.This particular story starts in High Norland with Charmain Baker.
At the same time, amazingly, Jones integrates elements of the fantastic like magic and wizards and elves without ever seeming outlandish or contrived.“House of Many Ways” is a particularly appealing title, by an already well-liked artist.
The other characters that populate this novel, including some from both “Howl’s Moving Castle” and “Castle in the Air,” are original and appealing though not by any means perfect.Even Charmain, the novel’s heroine, has moments where she is quite mistaken about a variety of things.
Charmain's character development was interesting and coherent, but it had no real bearing on the endgame of the plot, beyond the fact that it allowed her to be in the right places at the right time.
Ultimately the plot and tension would have been enough for, say, an episode of a television series, where an interesting premise need not be accompanied by really high stakes, but it didn't feel like a fully-formed standalone novel.However, I still entirely enjoyed reading it.
Diana Wynne Jones provides a sense of wonder that sets me on a path to a good mood.House of Many Ways is a great end to the series. Charmain is tasked with watching her great-uncle’s house while he is away. Turns out he is a wizard whose house is not what it appears to be. Whimsy and adventures abound.
To me this reads rather like Diana Wynne Jones trying to write a book that would translate perfectly into a Hayao Miyazaki movie. This sets it apart from  Howl's Moving Castle , which was mutlilated in the process of being turned into a Miyazaki film. The hyperkinetic, overstuffed and underexplained action of the latter third or so; the surreal, dreamlike beauty of certain scenes; some bizarrely cute flourishes (like Waif); the frilly Anglo touches (Afternoon Tea, crumpets); the out-of-the-blue
To me this reads rather like Diana Wynne Jones trying to write a book that would translate perfectly into a Hayao Miyazaki movie.
The hyperkinetic, overstuffed and underexplained action of the latter third or so; the surreal, dreamlike beauty of certain scenes; some bizarrely cute flourishes (like Waif); the frilly Anglo touches (Afternoon Tea, crumpets); the out-of-the-blue appearances of certain characters...There are many good bits in House of Many Ways, particularly the house itself and the interactions between Charmain and Peter; their travails with domestic tasks and exploration of the house are often very funny and entertaining.
Returning to the world of Ingary, though this time in the neighboring country of High Norland, we get to fall in love all over again with a new cast and see more of our beloved Sophie, Howl, and Calcifer than we did in the previous installment, Castle in the Air. Not to mention, we get to see some great bits of the terrible tantrums of a wizarding toddler with Morgan, and welcome back Jamal and his dog who received a lovely position as a royal cook for the King of High Norland at the end of Book 2.House of Many Ways is primarily a story about young Miss Charmain (not Charming–at least not with a good deal of work) who longs only to spend her days in the proper way–with her nose in a book.
Oh, my Gosh, what an awful, disappointing story! What antipathetic and helpless characters! I was extremely irritated by Chairmain and Peter. Even Sophie and Howl are annoying. The ‘lubbock’, this purple-hued insect, is ridiculous. Even the last action scene is lousy. Though I liked Mr. Baker, the kobolds, and Calcifer, it is not enough even for two stars.
Kuća mnogih puteva nije baš treći deo u trilogiji, ali jeste treća knjiga u kojoj se (ovde kao sporedni likovi) pojavljuju Haul i Sofija.
Ipak, bolje je da joj se priđe kao samostalnom romanu - em radnja nije vezana za "Haulov pokretni zamak", em bi u poređenju po kvalitetu izvukla deblji kraj.
Jeste simpatična ova priča o devojci koja je razmažena jedinica, knjiški moljac i veze nema sa praktičnim životom a iznenada treba da se stara o čarobnjačkom domaćinstvu, ali nije ni blizu najboljim knjigama ove autorke ni po humoru, ni po šašavosti, ni po kompleksnosti - negativci su posebno razočaranje.
it was a really enchanting world that Miss Diana created, I have to give her a big applause for this series as it is very creative so in this book we follow Charmaine she is a bookworm and living a good life until the day her mother decides that she goes to her uncle to take care of his house until he gets better ..
the house is fascinating but I wouldn't want to go there ( I don't like to get lost ) but the story was so slow and sometimes dragging that I felt lost at some point ..
“I’m beginning to think I’ve led a much too sheltered life.”  Charmain Baker wants nothing more than to read her books in peace. Peace, however, is soon gone when her aunt decides she should look after Great-Uncle William’s magical house. The wizard has fallen ill and Charmain finds herself alone in the house with a stray dog, a huge mess and no means to clean up with. Things only get worse when Peter, a supposed apprentice shows up. Inexperienced with magic, both seem to inflict more damage on
House of Many Ways is so much better a book than Castle in the Sky. While I do not think that it is quite as good as the first, Howl’s Moving Castle, it is a much more worthy sequel - it has the same magical atmosphere, mystery and quirky characters.Charmain is a great character to follow – I think anyone who enjoys fantasy would love a story about a girl who is crazy about books and ends up in a wizard’s house.
Sophie, Howl, and Calcifer are here, of course, and for much more of the book than they had been in Castle in the Air. They steal every scene they're in from Charmain, the newly introduced lead character.Charmain is almost the entire reason why I felt like House of Many Ways didn't live up to the other Castle books.
Should Charmain read a book, or tell Sophie what's happened?
(hide spoiler)]I can't help but feel that I would have liked the book a lot more if it had been from Sophie's perspective, or even Peter's.
He de decir que, si bien empecé con ilusión a leer, las primeras páginas me hicieron creer que me decepcionaría. Como estaba escrito, como empezaba… no me convencía. Pero según avanzaba fui descubriendo el punto fuerte de esta historia, de lo que cuenta y cómo. Consigue coger a ese adulto y volverlo por unas páginas un niño. Ahí está la magia.Es como un cuento, simple, entretenido, pero no por ello malo ni mucho menosMi reseña completa: https://armasdetinta.wordpress.com/20...
Much better than the second one! I really liked the characters, despite finding both Charmain and Peter annoying at times. She’s a bit of a lazy brat, and he’s a bit of screw up and a jerk, but it works. I quite enjoyed the story and the whimsical nature of everything as a whole. It’s fun, funny, fantastical, and brings the series to a very nice close.
Non che sia rimasto particolarmente affascinato dalla signorina Charmain/Charmant (ho trovato leggermente fastidioso il fatto che continuassero a giocare col suo nome, ma mai quanto la pavlata di Howl!), però non posso negare di aver nutrito una sorta di empatia, come sempre mi succede quando leggo di qualche personaggio appassionato di libri (e magia :P).
Non capirò mai la fissazione di quest’autrice per metamorfosi e trasformazioni, ma almeno in quest’ultimo capitolo della trilogia la trama è più consolidata.
Mantiene sempre una certa coerenza nel suo percorso che non si abbandona a stramberie (più che fantasie) abbastanza fini a sé stesse.
Creo que solamente hacia finales del libro logre que me cayera más o menos bien, pero no tanto.Peter, el joven aprendiz del mago, a pesar de ser torpe siempre esta esforzándose por hacer las cosas bien y eso lo hace un personaje querible desde el principio.
Por supuesto, Waif era un encanto de cachorro.Pero lo más interesante del libro (cuando no) es la aparición de Sophie, Calcifer, Morgan y Twinkle.
En este punto debo decir que sentí algo de lastima por Sophie, tener que lidiar con su terrible hijo Morgan y con su inmaduro marido (view spoiler)[ ¿O debería decir con el pequeño Twinkle?
But, through her interactions with Peter, her uncle’s supposed wizardly apprentice, you learn that Charmain has never really had to do very much for herself and she’s ignorant in how to fend for herself and incredibly lazy about doing most basic household chores.
And yet everything ties up nicely in the end.Overall, The House of Many Ways is a fun book full of quirks and if you’re a fan at all of Diana Wynn Jones and haven’t read this one yet, I highly recommend it.
LA CASA DE LOS MIL ESPEJOS continúa en el mismo mundo que EL CASTILLO AMBULANTE y EL CASTILLO EN EL AIRE, e incluso recupera a algunos de sus personajes (view spoiler)[Sophie, Howl, Calcifer y alguno más (hide spoiler)], pero no llega a la altura de los demás.
En EL CASTILLO AMBULANTE adoré a Sophie, a Calcifer y a Howl (a él por encima de todos), y en EL CASTILLO EN EL AIRE Flor-en-la-noche y Abdullah me encantaron, pero aquí no destaco a casi ningún personaje.
Charmain, con sus continuas quejas sobre los quehaceres del hogar, no me ha llegado demasiado como protagonista; en cambio, Waif, la perrita, y Peter, sí me han gustado, igual que el rey.
Add to that a King, a small dog, an evil purple bug, and a bumbling apprentice, and Charmain has a lot of learning to do, and fast.House of Many Ways is very much in the spirit of Howl's Moving Castle and makes a way better sequel to it than Castle in the Air did.
Howl and Sophie also have a much bigger role in this book, but they're not the stars and I'm perfectly happy with that because Charmain is a great character, no-nonsense, accidentally brave, impatient, occasionally foolish, but above all, likable and engaging.Five stars.
Charmain Baker is pleased when her family sends her to look after Great-Uncle William's little cottage while he's ill; after all, she longs to have some time to herself and the freedom to read and do whatever she wants.
But Great-Uncle William is the Royal Wizard of High Norland, and his house is...a little unusual.
The magic in this book was a lot quirkier and lot more reminiscent of Howl’s Moving Castle, but it’s always the characters that get me.
This book revolves around Charmain, a mostly ordinary girl who is sent to care for the home of her wizard relation.
I could have gotten more on board with this book as it had more of Howl and Sophie than the previous book and more of the setting I wanted, etc.
Peter pretty much ends up doing her all her chores while she stomps around bemoaning her lack of reading time.
I suppose Howl’s Moving Castle is a pretty hard act to follow anyways.
“Why have we got to?” she said.
“My mother brought me up to be respectable,” she said.
“She never let me near the scullery, or the kitchen either.”“I don’t believe this!” Peter said.
“Why is it respectable not to know how to do things?
I'm really glad that the last book of this duology trilogy does not let me down, I love it almost as much as I love the very first book ❤️ (no shit HMC is still my favorite one)I can't believe I just finished one of the amazing series in 2018, what am I going to do with my life now?
I loved the characters: Sophie with her no-nonsense attitude to cleaning and motherly patience in putting together Howl's suit, Calcifer, Howl, the castle itself.
Who can forget Sophie's enchanting hats and chasing a star for a spell.
I loved the second book with its 1000 nights Arabian atmosphere.
The third one had its own delights- aren't we all a bit like Charmain who NEEDS to read a book whenever she is happy or upset, puzzled, challenged or plain tired.
On second thoughts, I'd bring my washing machine-delightful as it sounded the laundry process seemed a tiny bit on the tiring side.
Una historia que se asemeja un poco a la primera, pero con su propio encanto.
Me ha gustado mucho aunque veces Charmain y Peter me ponían de los nervios.
El libro se me hizo algo tedioso hasta que aparecieron Sophie, Howl, Calcifer y Morgan que consiguen darle chispa al libro.
Estoy un poco decepcionada, porque aunque te va contando que pasó con algunos personajes de los anteriores libros no mencionan en ninguno momento a Michael y Martha.
De verdad que me hubiese encantado saber qué fue de ellos.Hasta siempre a Howl y Sophie, qué tristeza me ha entrado cuando he leído la última página.
House of Many Ways (Howl's Moving Castle, #3), Diana Wynne Jones (1934)عنوان: خانه ی هزار تو: جلد 3 از قلعه متحرک هاول؛ نوشته: دایاناواین جونز؛ مترجم: شراره صدیق؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کتابسرای تندیس، 1390، در 248 ص، شابک: 9786001820328؛
I'm having such a HUGE crush on Mrs. Diana Wynne Jones! I'm not sure you should trust me when it comes to her books.
E não se preocupem que a resenha não tem spoilers das outras obras, viu?Normalmente, continuações (principalmente continuação de continuação) costumam perder um pouco a graça (não sei dizer se é o autor que se cansa de escrever aquilo ou se a história vira mais do mesmo), contudo, o universo e os personagens da trilogia do Castelo Animado são tão imprevisíveis e divertidos que não tem como não amar A Casa dos Muitos Caminhos tanto quanto seus livros anteriores.A história começa com Chairman Baker, uma garota viciada em livros, mimada, completamente geniosa, cujo sonho é cuidar e organizar a biblioteca real – por sinal, ela até envia uma carta ao rei solicitando o cargo -, que precisa cuidar da casa de seu tio-avô, o mago William Norland, que está fora para se tratar de uma doença misteriosa.
A little disappointed. I like children' literature, but this one was too simple, also compared to two previous series. Maybe because I kept camparing the story with the animé and I know I would have liked it more if had read the books before watching the animé. Overall, these were really good books for children to read during the holidays. It's a pity, I didn't read them about 10-15 years ago.
