https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10990.Lord_John_and_the_Private_Matter
Like many other "Outlander" fans, I've been reluctant to even attempt to read this second Gabaldon series which centers on a secondary gay character first introduced in "Dragonfly in Amber." I was discouraged not only by the average Goodreads rating of 3.35, but by the sheer memory of THE homosexual encounter in "Outlander." I simply didn't feel like going through the same pain and suffering again.
What remains the same in both series however is the high quality of writing, fantastic characterization and smartly presented historical details.There is no passionate love story (not even a gay one) in "Lord John and the Private Matter," but it is filled with political intrigues and discussions of military affairs, and I enjoyed every bit of it.
I resisted reading any Lord John stories for a very long time, despite being a huge Gabaldon fan.
He is so particular about his clothes and appearance and there's this running subconscious dialogue interspersed with the bigger external picture unfolding in his head that goes something like this: "Ah, ha, so the Scanlons have flown the coop which must be a big clue!...and I seem to have lost a button on my waistcoat." He is always picking at a loose thread, flicking lint on his shoulder, noticing every detail around him.
This novel set in the early days of the Seven Years War and post-Jamie Fraser first encounters offers the reader much historical insight while also setting the scene to further the story told briefly in Gabaldon's VOYAGER.In his role as military Sherlock Holmes, Grey seeks to close all doors and solve the cases put before him without rocking the proverbial boat.
Grey uses his sleuthing abilities to show his multi-dimensional character seen already in VOYAGER and a novella, which is likely expanded in the rest of the LJG collection.
I look forward to learning more and seeing how one Jamie Fraser plays a keener role in the larger story.
Lord John GreyLord John Grey is a major in His Majesty's army .
He is entrusted with searching for the answers to two murders and to a spy selling secrets.
Lord John discovers a man by the name of O'Connell may have sold military secrets to an enemy spy.
There are plenty of clues to all three crimes, but they're not coming together in a cohesive answer.
Will Lord John Grey discover the answers before it's too late?Diana Gabaldon has written another winner.
Lord John Grey is a character from the Outlander series.
We come to fully understand Lord John's character through dialogue and descriptions.
4.5sLord John and the Private Matter is the first novel in the Lord John Grey series by popular American author, Diana Gabaldon.
As he waits for his next posting, Lord John Grey, a Major in His Majestys 47th Regiment, learns of the death of a Sergeant well known to him.
As Grey makes enquiries to confirm or dismiss his concerns, he discovers more alarming details, and the boundaries between his two fields of investigation begin to blur.
I like the writing and the research is incredibly well done, with no historical info dumping, but there was one issue that I just could not get past.I read books for the plot, obviously, but just as much, if not more, for the characters.
Here, we don't get to know anything about Lord John.
The focus is on the plot, with a generous helping of colorful side characters, but basically all I feel now that I'm done with the book is a grudging curiosity towards John Grey.
and so on.I suppose I will read the novellas collected in Lord John and the Hand of Devils, sometime in the future.So. Frustrated.
Audible deal of the day for $3.95!http://www.audible.com/pd/Mysteries-T...
Its not necessary to read the Outlander series before reading this series, but the context does help, especially when LJG references his relationship with Jamie (and obvious aforementioned unrequited love).Mostly, this is a well-written murder mystery set in London in 1557, in which the protagonist is a gay man in a world where that is completely taboo.
And while I admit I only gave the series a try because Jamie does share pov in The Scottish Prisoner (wonderful book, btw), I've continued the series because of LJG.
The Private Matter is an intriguing and surprising Historical Mystery, told with the dry wit only LJG does best.
Not only is John charged with solving a soldier's murder, but is also trying to determine if his cousin's fiance has the pox.
We see John at his best, solving crime and other people's problems.
I'm so looking forward to reading Brotherhood of the Blade, and am happy to have learned LJG will be getting a fourth book!
*Sigh*I can't.
I got about 60 pages in, but I just don't want to read any more.
Gabaldon is one of my favourite authors, I love her Outlander series, but Lord John as a character isn't my favourite, and this sort of mystery genre just isn't for me.
I am going to keep all the books in this series though, so that in a couple of years when I reread the Outlander Books, I will hopefully decide to try again, so maybe I'll enjoy them.
But at the minute, I don't want to continue.
Diana Gabaldon is fantastic. This novel is so cleverly written, dealing with the murder mystery /intrigue aspect... Plus, it's always interesting to see Gabaldon's take on social dynamics in historical context.And if that wasn't enough, there's also Lord John Grey at the center of it all, engaging in some pretty interesting adventures. I admit, I hadn't ready paid much attention to him in the Outlander books, but I'm enjoying his solo stories a great deal! So much so that I'm already willing to admit, so early into this, that he's become another of my favorite characters!I'm beyond ready for more.
Ok, why why WHY does Gabaldon insist on ANOTHER plot of gay men?Ok, yes, that sort of thought and leanings were around back then.
He became just another one, so to speak.I mean, Randall (god rest his soul, I loved him!!), was a character WITH the angle of having love for Jamie.
But it wasn't because he was necessarily gay - it was because he was a malicious sadist who eventually fell in love with his victim after having a personal vendetta against Jamie.
I just hated GREY.So, one star for sort of ruining the whole thing for me because of that.
- for English-language books here in Japan, and because I am so desperate for reading material, I will now read pretty much anything I can find that looks vaguely interesting, especially if it's cheap.
So I picked it up even though I have, like, negative interest in reading the Outlander series that this is connected to (it's really long!
There were a few things not as fully explained as I would have liked (probably because I was expected to know them from reading the Outlander series), but for the most part the characters and writing and story worked for me.
Still don't really want to read the Outlander books, but I do want to read more about Lord John.
I read this book a couple years back and enjoyed stepping into the world of Lord John and his Georgian London.
A cunning mystery and an opportunity to know John and those around him better made it a delightful read.
I'm happy to report that this story was better than ever as a result.
Slow, but sure he gets there and then he is confronted by yet another situation.It reads like a cozy mystery blended with historical fiction and has a gentle pacing.
Loved getting to know Lord John better after encountering him in the Outlander series' Voyager.
4.5/5 Me encanta este personaje. Cronológicamente este libro iría después de "Viajera" (seria un 3.1 o algo parecido de la saga principal de Outlander). Es un libro muy dinámico, lleno de misterio, suspense e intriga. Es la aventura de Lord John Grey investigando la muerte de un oficial ingles y todo el entramado y conspiraciones que aparecen como consecuencia de ello (digno de un episodio de Sherlock Holmes ).... 
But it sounded intresting and as it turned out, it didnt dissapoint.I picked it up because I wanted to read about a lead that was gay - it was part of the pride festival theme and one of my favourite bookstores had gathered a bunch of their books with homosexual lead characters as a tribute to the subject.
As it was, I was rather careful because I didnt want something like a leads sexual orientation to take over the actual story of the book.
The summary of the next book in this series didnt sound too intresting and neither did the "main" series but we'll see.
Because the books are short (at least in Gabaldonian terms), there are few tangents and minimal plot clutter, allowing John's character to shine without the overwhelming presence of Claire or Fraser.
Lord John is so very decent that I find some sections of the book almost painful to read, a tribute to Gabaldon's ability to create sympathetic characters.
The Lord John books should appeal not only to Outlander fans, but also to readers who like well-crafted historical mysteries.
If you like C.S. Harris and Ashley Gardner, the Lord John books are an excellent bet.
Lord John ese gran picaruelo. Me gusta
Strona detektywistyczna ksiżki zupenie mnie nie porwaa, ale za to zachwycaam si życiem ówczesnego Londynu, przyjciami i ciemnymi zaukami penymi podejrzanych typów.
Autorka bardzo ciekawie opisaa zjawisko homoseksualizmu pojawiajce si w tamtym czasie, a nie byo to co na porzdku dziennym.
Niby można, ale ja polecam zapoznanie si z przynajmniej trzema pierwszymi tomami, bo Lord John co jaki czas wspomina sobie wydarzenia z przeszoci i mówi np.
Oczywicie polecam t ksiżk wszystkim fanom Outlandera, bo naprawd jest klimatyczna, a wiem, że Lord John ma dużo fanów, sama go lubi, i naprawd mio mi byo znowu wróci do osiemnastego wieku.
With a screeching halt I had to temporarily abandon my love affair with Jamie Fraser to revert back to Lord John (a relatively important secondary character within the Outlander series) and the series of books written with him as the central focus; to say I was very, very unhappy about it is an understatement.
Her characters were well rounded and the plot thoroughly thought out and perfectly developed and maybe if I had read them before Lord John became a feature in the Outlander story I might have been more sympatico but as it stood?
I havent started up since, but I will, soon, because I just adore Diana Gabaldons storytelling and I think that Jamie and Clares adventures are amazing and Ive enjoyed them immensely.Lord John and the Private Matter is the first spin-off featuring Lord John Grey, an English officer whom the readers are introduced to in the Outlanders books.
I honestly dont remember much of John Greys personality, except that he was a closeted gay character, who was decent to Jamie.Here we discover a little bit more about Lord John and Ive come to like him quite a bit.
She's stuck in part due to the fact that Lord John Grey, the protagonist here, is a secondary character in the Outlander books, and thus has much of his story pre-determined.
Nothing too exciting can happen to him here, because it would undermine or undo those books.Another issue is that Gabaldon stumbles in her dealings with the queer subcultures of 18th century London.
Lord John Grey himself, a highlight of the Outlander books, seems pale and cold here, close to boring.
I think without the English-Scottish culture clash, Gabaldon can't manage to write compelling character interplay.It's not an awful book, but it was a disappointment.
But I admit to it being that way because I wanted to follow Lord John around and this book let me do that.
I also admit to gaping at homosexuality in the eighteenth century, as I know Gabaldon is a research-a-holic---so I felt I could reasonably trust her fictional depiction.I was surprised (pleasantly so) to find that I could have done without any mentions of Jamie or Claire Fraser (the main characters of the series of which this is a bit of a spinoff.) I think John could have completely stood on his own.
After reading the first 3 books in Diana Gabaldon's Outlander series (Outlander, Dragonfly in Amber, and Voyager), this first book in the Lord John Grey series really did not meet my expectations.
The plot of the story is interesting - Lord John Grey, by order of the Crown, is investigating the murder of a member of his regiment thought to be a traitor - a spy for the French.
It was just okay - if it's any indication as to what is to be expected of the other books in the series, I won't be running to the library for the next book.
Lord Grey first appears in Dragonfly in Amber the third book in Outlander series as an important minor character. I haven't read Outlander and I doubt I will. The book was OK but not so good as I expected. Story is interesting but it isn't page turner, main character is likeable enough but other characters are flat. Of course the mystery is revealed by "baddy" in the end. And I have no idea why so many readers shelved this story as "romance". All that said, I do plan to read Lord John And The Hand Of Devils.
I love Lord John.
The Lord John universe is much more contained and focused.
Lord John is one of the best secondary characters of the Outlander universe and it was nice to be in his head, though because I didn't care about the outcome of the mystery, the book dragged.
It was interesting that he didn't go on and on about his unrequited love of Jamie Fraser for the whole book.
**If anyone has read the other books in the series, do they deal with his raising of William, which is what I would be interested in reading, or are they more mysteries?
You almost feel like you're living there because Ms. Gabaldon doesn't shy away from showing the smelly and the nasty.I can't say I loved the mystery - some of the stuff got really complicated - but I liked Lord John's turn of phrase and his complicated life as a gay man during this time in history.
I felt terrible for him - with very little hope for love, specially from what I know about his future - but I liked learning more about him and his life as a soldier.
As in her other well-known series, this author takes the time to set the stage for the time period.
Her attention to detail is outstanding and rich with descriptions.
I've always liked the character of Lord John and this story was interesting in that we got to see him solve a mystery, often taking the wrong steps and making those 'if I had known' statements, shows him being all too human.
Though the story moved slowly, I didn't find anything lacking and looked forward to finishing the tale.All in all, I found the story very atmospheric, the characters true and would recommend.
It was nice to get acquainted with John Grey. It will bring more to the story as I continue the Claire and Jamie story.
It kind of doesn't pull any of those off as well as it could, and yet there's just so much to it that it's still a good read.I honestly don't know how Gabaldon manages it to break so many conventions of novel writing and yet make such incredibly compelling books.
Her wonderful prose helps, of course, because every sentence is a joy to read.Anyway, I was bored by Lord John initially in the Outlander books and then I came to love him, and then I thought his portrayal in the tv show was excellent.
So I gave this book a try, and now I love Lord John even more.
