https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/231609.Out_of_My_Later_Years
While the concept of Out Of My Later Years fascinates me, the execution did not.
This is a collection of letters from the last years of Einstein's life.
I realized after starting this that while I know Einstein's name I don't know much about his life.
My ignorance made this book confusing since Einstein wasn't writing to the uneducated masses of the future.
He was writing to the people of his own time on issues they would be familiar with.
I might come back to this book later, but in the meantime I'm going to read a biography.
One can have the clearest and most complete knowledge of what is, and yet not be able to deduct from that what should be the goal of our human aspirations.
And it is hardly necessary to argue for the view that our existence and our activity acquire meaning only by the setting up of such a goal and of corresponding values.
This one went through patches of being alternately really interesting and rather cumbersome.
Its partitioned into several distinct sections, his philosophical portions being of the greatest interest for me personally (especially his thoughts on education).
His scientific writings were certainly challenging for me.
And in both of these first two sections, he often states things in unnecessarily convoluted sentences, making it only more challenging to decipher.
His political sections are interesting although sometimes too idealistic even for me, but his writings on his contemporaries are keenly insightful.
And what a treat this read was!The book is organized well; for example, if you are interested in his views on politics or society, there are sections for that.
If you are interested in his views on science, or in finding out about his work in physics or astronomy, there is a section on that also.
This book is a nice way to introduce yourself to the man behind the legend; I know that I will be moving on to a more fully-realized biography of his at some point.
The man has a way with words, this is obvious, and I want more!
Fascinating to look into the mind of this iconic genius. After serving a pivotal role in the discoveries which led to the invention of nuclear bombs, and recognizing he could have easily been among the millions of European Jews killed in World War II, he seems to have taken a personal interest in practical plans to end war. His ideas about a supranational government are attractive, though probably overly idealistic. I think it's probably unfortunate that his ideas in this arena never really caught on.
I’ve been reading it off and on ever since.This collection is divided into six sections: Convictions and Beliefs, in which Einstein shares his thoughts on religion, ethics, education, and liberty; Science, in which he explains the state of physics in the mid-Twentieth Century, including a great layman’s explanation of his Theories of Relativity; Public Affairs, in which he explores issues as diverse as race, class inequity, the role of science in a modern world, and a strong international community as a means of preventing war; Science and Life, which continues Einstein’s call for an international community; Personalities, in which Einstein shares reflections and tributes to his heroes and friends; and My People, in which Einstein explores the roots of anti-semitism in Europe, the devastation of the Holocaust, and the Zionists hope to create a Jewish homeland--a refuge from harm, a community of peace--in Israel.Some of these essays are kind of sad.
Reading Einstein's self-written essays was a treat. Some of the technical stuff was a bit of a bumpy ride while mostly everything non-technical was fairly digestible. He spent a lot of time evaluating how society should be organized and the need for a one world government to mitigate wars between powerful states. While some may view his thought process as potentially naive, I still found his exploration of sustainable humanitarian models refreshing.I would recommend this as a quick and interesting read excluding the scientific technical section.
"O milagre da VidaPode ser que um dia deixemos de nos falar...
Pode ser que um dia o tempo passe...
Pode ser que um dia nos afastemos...
Mas, se formos amigos de verdade, A amizade nos reaproximará.
Pode ser que um dia não mais existamos...
Mas, se ainda sobrar amizade, Nasceremos de novo, um para o outro.
Pode ser que um dia tudo acabe...
Mas, com a amizade construiremos tudo novamente, Cada vez de forma diferente.
Sendo único e inesquecível cada momento Que juntos viveremos e nos lembraremos para sempre.
Há duas formas para viver a sua vida: Uma é acreditar que não existe milagre.
I wanted to write, what brilliant writing! But then, it is a book of essays written by the most well-known genius in history, so I feel like anything aside from "This book was written by Albert Einstein" is just being superfluous with phrases varying on the theme that "Hey, You Should Read This Book Because It Was Written by Dr Albert Einstein"
The book is divided into several sections where Einstein writings could be classified as philosophical, scientific and biographical.In his philosophical writings, Einstein muses on subjects like religion, government, social justice and education.
I found his views on government and socialism to be unrealistic, though his rationale had some merit.In the scientific section, Einstein’s writing take two forms.
The second part is about his work in science along with relevant adjacent areas of science.In the biographical writings, Einstein discusses his views on a number of scientists, some contemporary, some historical.
Cela m'a pris deux ans pour finir ce livre, non pas par ce que je l'ai trouvé ennuyeux ou peu intéressant, mais parce que les premiers essais étaient au-dessus de mon niveau conceptuel, étant données mes connaissances limitées à propos des mathématiques appliquées dans la théorie de la relativité générale, notamment les géométries différentielles.
En effet, j'ai fini les 3/4 du livre dans les derniers mois, et la deuxième moitié au bout de quelques jours.Ceci dit, j'ai trouvé cette aperçu de l'esprit d'Einstein plutôt fascinant, surtout ses explications sur les éléments qui ont inspiré ou guidé son travail sur les deux versions de la théorie de la relativité.
A collection of thoughtful essays by some guy.I read it twenty+ years ago - what sticks with me is the insight that morality is the province of philosophy and religion, whereas law is the province of government.
Philosophy and religion, which I'll compress into moralists, protect individuals from becoming perpetrators.
Both the law, and moralists, are against murder, for instance - but the law to protect people from becoming murdered, and moralists to protect people from becoming murderers.Seeing that distinction has helped me a lot over the years.

Many of the writings are still relevant today. It was interesting to see his perspective on a variety of topics including education and socialism/capitalism. The writing on a one world government became a bit reparative and the sections on physics were a bit dense for me. the sections on Judaism were also fascinating as I have a limited exposure to the topic. Overall I would recommend it.
This book included both essays and transcriptions of various speaking events- some were interesting, some were physics above my level, however it was all highly repetitive- eg: an essay on zionism, followed by a transcription on the same subject, followed by a writing on the same theme, written to a slighly different audience, resulting in a tedious slog of a read.
Interesting, yet intensely dry. A real mixed bag.Interesting to see Einstein's views on a variety of subjects, but his writing style is pure ponderous college lecture so that most of the articles can be really had to get through.Amazing how progressive he is on so many issues, especially considering when these were written.
Semplice raccolta di vari interventi e articoli di Einstein riportati non tanto in ordine cronologico quanto tematico.Sarebbe stata gradita una breve introduzione per contestualizzare i singoli testi o anche solo l'aggiunta della data all'inizio di ciascuno invece che in una sezione separata a fine libro.
I have mixed feelings regarding this book... many parts were enlightening and many others made me think a lot about science, society, politics, etc. Still, there is something in the character, which doesn't seem right.
Einstein getting philosophical. Some nice sections on relativity in laymen terms and Einstein recognizing the implications of his revolutionary work. Otherwise, a relativity bland read/listen with too much discussion of science's relationship with society, religion, and philosophy.
Non condivido tutto quel che dice, ma è comunque una lettura utilissima per comprendere appieno il pensiero di una delle più grandi menti del passato millennio.
Rambling. I got bored. May finish later as it’s an e-book.
หนังสือดีควรไดอาน แตครังนีนาจะมีความเรงรีบในการจัดพิมพมาก
หนังสือดีควรได้อ่าน แต่ครั้งนี้น่าจะมีความเร่งรีบในการจัดพิมพ์มาก
The real take-away I got from this book is that just because someone is a scientific genius does not mean they are a political genius.Einstein was a rabid advocate of a world government, and a supporter of socialism.
In retrospect, the real danger of nuclear weapons turned out to be not the sovereignty of nations, but the lack of sovereignty and accountability of terrorists.My feelings about Einstein's politics kept worsening as I listened to his rants about the dangers of nuclear war and the need for world government.
طبعاً، يصعُبُ الحديث عِندما يكُونُ عن شخصيَّة عظيمة مِثل العالِم والفيلسوف الكبير ألبرت آينشتاين.في هذا الكتاب تجَلَّى الجانِب الفلسفِي من آينشتاين، وهُوَ جانبٌ رائعٌ جداً وقد يخفى أيضاً على بعض المُعجّبين بآينشتاين العالِم صاحِب النسبيَّتَين.الكتاب بشكل عامّ جميل جدا، ولا يُمَلّ.وكي أكونَ صادِقاً، فقد ظللت مستمتعاً بالكتاب حتَّى آخر فصل.
ولكن العقل المنطقي سيطر عليّ وأنا أكتب هذه المراجَعة وجَعَلني أغير رأيي!الفصل الأخير – الفصل الصادِم – يحتوي على مجموعة مقالات لآينشتاين يوضِّح فيها رأيه وموقفه من اليهود والصهيونية.
وهذا شيء أزعجني جداً!
فكلماتُه ورأيه بشكل ملخَّص هو أنهُ يرى أن الصهيونية هي حركة ممتازة أعطت اليهود حقوقهم بعد أن كانوا مظلومين في أوروبا!
I have read other books by Albert Einstein but in this particular book he reveals an intimate side of himself not found in other selections.
This is an intimate look at a man through his work.
It will change the way you parent and educate your students.There are times in this book where it becomes overly dry and technical, especially when discussing his theory of relativity and other ultra-technical things but through it all, the book is readable and enjoyable and you will come out the other end more insightful and have a new appreciate for a man who was years ahead of his time.
A little disappointing--although I'll admit that when I first picked this up I was expecting a memoir, so I had that wrong.
And just as I turn the last page I find in the "acknowledgments" what was direly needed throughout the book--the date and purpose of each essay.
That was my biggest criticism.
Aside from that I have little to say.
The science was beyond me but is a small portion of the book.
Einstein's political, social and spiritual expressions seemed to me idealistic to the point of naivete.
The last section, on the Jewish people, was the most interesting to me.
Wow! Albert Einstein's essays on science, economics, society, people of great influence, and the Jewish people. Would have given the book five stars except for the essays on science, where my lack of knowledge caused by eyes to glaze over. The remaining essays are very enlightening, showing the great scope of Einstein's intellect. I found some of his social and economic essays utopian with his disregard to man's historical characteristics. Most of these essays were written from the late 30's to early 50's. Time has shown many of his predictions to be untrue.
Good series of essays that gave some insight into his thinking. I had to skip the ones that went into detail about physics as these were boring and heavy for a non-math person. His philosophical essays were of much greater interest to me. It would have been nice if the editors had dated the essays in addition to the bibliography in the back. Since he was discussing his ideas/beliefs in light of events going on at the time, having the date would have put his comments in context.
I suggest this book for the super Einstein fans out there. The rest.... I am not sure this book is right for you.I kept looking for something special that did not come.... I might have just had way too high expectations for this reading.The book, which is mostly a collection of Einstein writings ( including a lot of english errors ) is a good insight on his genius mind, nothing more.
What a thoughtful, most brilliant and gentle man. This work is not clear evidence of his grand mind,but also of his empathy for all men and his simply stated way of obtaining truly democratic goals. This is a treasure trove of Einstein's most important and intimate work. A renaissance man, if ever there was!
