https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1122769.Such_Such_Were_the_Joys
Some of the details are vague and forgotten, as is to be expected, but the things he remembers- particular sensations, or words appearing as all capitalised in his mind even decades after because they filled him with such dread- are so well-written that even though I've never been to a boarding school and I have never been beaten with a riding crop, Orwell manages to still make me recall parts of my own childhood during which I felt exactly as he did."I was crying partly because I felt that this was expected of me, partly from genuine repentance, but partly also because of a deeper grief which is peculiar to childhood and not easy to convey: a sense of desolate loneliness and helplessness, of being locked up not only in a hostile world but in a world of good and evil where the rules were such that it was actually not possible for me to keep them."God, that's true, isn't it?
He was bullied by an older boy, beaten by the incompetent teachers, fed the bare minimum to keep him alive, and the little money his parents sent him was withheld by the Headmaster’s wife who doled out the money according to class (meaning that Orwell was allowed to spend the least, even if he was given more pocket money).The essay opens with a young Orwell wetting the bed for the first time in years when he arrives at the school because he’s afraid of his new environs, miles away from his family and friends.
Impossible to rate (and measure) child's suffering.
You can't help but wonder what he'd have to say about nowadays…
Among the latter, for instance, the fact that, not only is it not allowed to hit a child now, and thank god for that, but things have gone so far that teachers, educators, sports trainers and the likes, have to be extremely careful as to any physical contact they may have with minors of age, as a potential lawsuit is always around the corner (hugs are also dangerous, in that typical,extreme Anglo-Saxon/British exaggeration and passion for political correctness which makes society an awkward, uncomfortable place).
This is a short essay, recollecting not so fond memories of Orwell's time at school. An insightful and enjoyable read for all George Orwell fans.
its fun (if not earth shattering) and costs $2after feeling extremely bleak for three days and watching nothing but videogame walkthroughs, this was exactly the book i needed to remind me why i should throw away my computer and stop consuming anything that would help me relate to ppl my ageCONTENT THOUGHTS - orwell's voice is so polished that it's almost impossible to tell whether this is the 'earnest but wearied reflection of the frame narrator recalling something from his troubled, cloudy past' in a piece of fiction [i.e. heart of darkness], or if that's just how orwell fucking talked- "the child accepts the codes of behaviour (ugh, that spelling) that are presented to it, even when it breaks them...
This is a book I definitely had to walk off.
Like most of the world, I'd read 1984 and Animal Farm--though so long ago that I'd retained a stick figure view of them.
But I happened across a list of Orwell's writing that went on and on and picked this collection of essays.
These are essays about his relatively privileged childhood, a childhood that makes Jane Eyre's look pampered.
So much fun that it now has me reading Darkness at Noon for the relief.
A 20th century totalitarian prison classic is a walk in the park in comparison to a British middle class upbringing.
I read this a few years ago while on holiday in Paris. I loved it. Nobody could ever equal Orwell for acerbic social commentary.
Such, such a collection of essays provides insight into the developmental psychology that wrote some of the 20th century's greatest books. Nineteen Eighty-Four would have never been written had it not been for Orwell's class-conscience, authority-laden, and sexually repressed youth, nor his experience volunteering for a losing side of a disastrous civil war. These are just a few examples among many more. Well worth reading if you are an admirer of Orwell's writing.
I've only read the title essay of this collection, about Orwell's terrible experience at an English boarding school in the early 20th century, but it was weirdly brilliant.
First, of course, there's the insight into the violence of school life.
But mostly, I don't know another work that captures the mental experience of being a child so well: brutalized and blindly submitting to the ideas of adults and the people around you, always internalizing them even as a part (somewhere deep inside) somehow resists.
I've never actually read Orwell before--he's always seemed almost like a cliche, someone whose ideas were so familiar there was no need to read him.
The practice of memorising certain facts and passages in preparation for exams rather than actually engaging with the subject certainly existed 15-20 years ago in Ireland.
I suspect it still does.Orwell does a magnificent job of writing about the complexities of being a child trying to understand the world around him, giving voice to thoughts I'm not sure I ever considered.
It was certainly a timely read personally, as my 5 year old son starts school this week.
Thankfully, times have obviously changed for the better, but I do wonder how my son will view this new world.
Well it's essentially about how horrible Orwell's life was when growing up. Maybe not the most interesting thing to read but Orwell has a way with words which still kept me going. Also the fact that it was only about 40 pages or something helped.
How long before they turn their guns in the other direction?' And in Looking Back on the Spanish War (1943), you could see the embryonic development of Orwell's sentiments that have been made the essence of 1984.
So for all practical purposes the lie will have become truth ...""The implied objective of this line of thought (the Nazi theory) is a nightmare world in which the Leader, or some ruling clique, controls not only the future but the past.
If the Leader says of such and such an event, 'It never happened' - well, it never happened.
Well written and thoughtful collections of essays, falling into two general categories.1) Literature review of popular writing.
Well researched essays on Dickens and Kipling, as well as discussion of penny dreadfuls, vulgar postcards, and boys weeklies like the Gem and Magnet.
Gives a balanced view of their context, and were interesting despite not being familiar with the source material.2) Personal memoir.
Horror stories of his school days, killing an elephant in Burma, the Spanish Civil War, and why he became a writer.
A few very memorable scenes and insight his anti-totalitarian viewpoint.Two interesting ideas he mentions.
2) The intellectual connection between sadism/masochism, success and power worship, and totalitarianism.
The best essays I have ever read. They are so clear and concise that one doesn't feel that he is applying any writing techniques, but of course he does. His essays are much better than his most famous books like 1984 and Animal Farm. And in a way his essays are also better than his books about his life in London, Paris, Catalonia and Burma. It is so inspiring to read his work, knowing that he is so upbeat about life even if he is disillusioned with almost everything-- everywhere he lived, every cause he served.
The first essay, the eponymous essay, was excellent. Then, there was an essay about Dickens where Orwell seemed to be fighting battles over socialism that seem totally irrelevant eight decades later. I liked the ending of that essay and I tried to read some of the other essays, but it was difficult to do with an audiobook, just because I had no idea where one essay ended and the other began, and the hardcopy of the book that I got hold of had a totally different set of essays. Read about 30%.
More like a 2.5.
Ottima raccolta di scritti in cui è possibile notare la definizione del pensiero dell'autore.
Orwell doing what he does best. Great insight and flawless writing as always. He shows his socialist leanings far more than in most of his fiction. For all his problems with Soviet style totalitarianism, he remained committed to socialism and to the working class throughout his life. Highlights are his essays on Charles Dickens, Ghandhi and the use of language in political discourse.
The book is about Orwell's school life.
In the book, Orwell describes various events and characters in his school life.
The best part of this book is that every event and every story is concluded by a mature George Orwell analyzing the past and extracting a lesson from the memories for the readers.
Here I would reluctantly compare George Orwell with two great authors, those who equal or in some peoples' opinion are above his echelon: Roald Dahl and Charles Dickens.
"Boy" by Roald Dahl was pretty much about his school life.
sesekali, orwell menyinggung tentang korupsi di sekolah dan asrama, peer pressure di lingkungan pertemanan, dan perbedaan kasta sosial.di satu bagian, orwell bercerita tentang gurunya yang berkata kepadanya bahwa masa depannya suram, dan ia ditakdirkan untuk tidak sukses.
orwell berpikir ia tidak akan sukses, karena ketika ia kecil, gurunya berkata kepadanya bahwa hidupnya takkan pernah berhasil.
untungnya, seiring bertumbuh dewasa, orwell perlahan-lahan bisa keluar dari pikiran yang menghantuinya itu.
ia lalu berpikir, "kalau gue ditakdirkan nggak bisa sukses, yaudah, gue lakukan yang terbaik aja dari ketidaksuksesan itu."buku memoir tentang masa kecil orwell ini mudah dibaca, dan seperti buku-buku orwell lainnya, very insightful and enlightening.
It's such a different experience reading Orwell through non-fiction, almost as if he weren't the same writer, and yet it was practically screaming, Orwell, Orwell.
In this essay, he talked about what he had gone through when he was young; and what it was like to go to a prestigious school as a part of the lowest level in the "caste" established there (having to be reminded all the time of his poorness, and to be caned and scolded horridly when the other boys belonging to a higher social status received no such treatment).
I'm so excited to indulge myself in more of his non-fiction.
He explained it the best he could, in his view, a reflection he has while all of that happens.There are some life guidance in his words, some wisdom can be taken, but I still feel that, education is needed, at least to direct them to the experiences they supposed to have, now, or later in life.
Though he made his point.
Some points I agree on, but still, at least to me, the value of education remains.
Dari sekian review bintang 5 terhadap esai George Orwell saya memilih untuk tidak mengaguminya secara maniak.
Percayalah, saya cinta 1984, tapi saya melihat sisi penulisan Orwell yang terlalu 'meledak' (dalam arti buruk) pada esai ini.
Namun ada satu sisi di mana saya membaca esai ini seperti membaca satu bagian kecil dari seorang pria yang terlihat insecure, memiliki kemarahan yang dipendam, dan akhirnya dilampiaskan dalam tulisan.
Seperti buku harian yang menurut saya terlalu banyak subjektivitas yang tidak perlu.
Hanya saja saya tidak menikmati.
Bacaan ini saya rekomendasikan untuk mereka yang ingin mengenal Orwell lebih luas lagi :)
such a great reading experience .
i completely agreed with everything he said .
"but it is difficult for a child to realize that a school is primarily a commercial venture" page 37 was just amazingly written and completely accurate .
page 42 .
in the book he asks if a child at school still goes through the same experiences ?
. he asked this question in around 1945 while he was in Britain and i can answer a definite yes .
even though the circumstances are completely different .
and how school headmasters are absolute shit .
This essay was fantastic, no surprise there.
Orwell tells the story of his childhood days at a public school, and his experiences of being bullied by both members of staff and fellow pupils.
He tells this story ironically and I couldn't help but find parts of it amusing.
At the end of the essay which is around 1945 I'm guessing?
He compares the schooling from then to when he was at school in 1914 and questions whether the education system had evolved.
Orwell's thought provoking essay is still very relevant, and could almost be used as a self help guide in today's modern society.
Which is simultaneously sad and amusing.
Having read "Animal Farm" and "1984", "Such, such were the joys" seems like a different kind of writing which Orwell usually adopts. Reminiscing his childhood years, the author introduces the tyranny in which a child is prone to. I picked the book randomly and wondered what could Orwell prevail in a non-scientific way about his early experiences. Maybe there's not much to talk about regarding the plot but it is one of the best autobiographical essays I have ever read. It seems authentic and straight to the point.
Orwell's essays are always entertaining and this is no exception. The ironic title 'Such, such were the joys' lets you know what is in store in this essay about his life as one of the poorer kids at a public school - beatings, near starvation, humiliation, just what you would expect. But it is his take on how he, and children as a whole, view adults that is most interesting. It also explains about the society in England just before the first world war. I love Orwell's witty and relaxed style. He really lets his personality shine here.
Ah.Startlingly honest and unadorned, Orwell ruminates on his past in, dare I say, a disinterested way; he does not pity himself and does not seem to expect the reader to, either. He observes moral truths and develops them by weaving in and out of extended anecdote and greater observances on society and the human condition. Orwell wrote with quiet conviction and his essays make for an absolute gift to read, and there is no doubt in my mind that I will return to his essays time and time again.
