https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128066.The_Pianist
The triumph of the human spirit, the strength of the human soul to find its way out of the darkness, the injustice, the never-ending nightmare, the ordeal of living in a world where absolute fear and beastly behaviour dictate everyone’s life.
He lived like a caged animal for six years, because of a madman’s idea of a perfect world.
I wish we could claim such a thing and actually believe that it won’t be a void wish...But there is always someone, there is always a ‘’chosen’’ leader that turns the world into a toy to pass the time…Szpilman’s ordeal and survival was depicted to perfection in the 2002 film by the great Roman Polanski, starring the impeccable Adrien Brody.
Awarding a star rating to this man's unbelievably harrowing and miraculous tale of surviving a war which claimed the lives of 6 million of his fellow brethren for no reason at all, seems a more sacrilegious act than calling Infinite Jest a bad book on Goodreads.
A million stars to Wilm Hosenfeld for holding on to his conscience at a time when morality and compassion were in short supply.
If you were interned in the Warsaw Ghetto your chances of survival were about the same as any of us being struck by lightning in our lifetime.
(The woman soldier who shoots at him misses.) In some ways he reminds me of Primo Levi, another highly sensitive artistic man who you'd think wouldn't have the qualities to survive.
His answer to every question was to tell the interviewer he couldn't possibly understand.
The pathetic self-love this man must have possessed to believe his life was more important than the barbarous acts he performed beggars belief.
There is no way for me to rate or review this book that would do it justice. Read it. Read it now.
I loved The Pianist for a number of reasons but the supreme reason goes to Władysław Szpilman's storytelling.
Szpilman writes down the struggles which he endured in order to survive in Warsaw under the occupation of the Nazis.
But in 1939, the Nazis invaded Poland and developed a new general government which established a ghetto in Warsaw, specifically for Jews.
Senseless hate by the Nazis and unjustified murder led Szpilman to escape rather than await his death.
However, survival behind the walls of the Warsaw ghetto proves to be as difficult as a rapid death.
Hosenfeld helped Szpilman survive when he was closest to his death.
This book was different in that it was not only written by someone in Poland who survived the Holocaust, but someone who probably only survived because of the help of a German officer.
The tome of the book is rather matter of fact, since it is written right after the war it was explained that it was written this way because the author could still not quite come to terms with the massive amounts of cruelty and lives lost.I never knew that although more Polish Jews were exterminated than elsewhere, some three to four hundred thousand Poles risked their lives to save Jews.
This is a story of one man's survival in a city devastated by war and how his will to survive keeps him alive.This first-hand account of the Jewish pianist, Wladyslaw Szpilman, gave me a fantastic and important detailed insight regarding Warsaw, its people and the events leading up to the Warsaw Rising of 1944.
The one thing I did miss or thought the book lacked was emotion and I am not sure why this is, perhaps it’s the urgency to tell the story as it happened, perhaps it’s the terrible effects all the atrocities had on the author or perhaps not being a writer he is not able to convey emotion in his writing.
Smierc miasta = The Pianist: The Extraordinary Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw, 1939–45, Władysław SzpilmanThe Pianist is a memoir by the Polish-Jewish pianist and composer Władysław Szpilman in which he describes his life in Warsaw in occupied Poland during World War II. After being forced with his family to live in the Warsaw ghetto, Szpilman manages to avoid deportation to the Treblinka extermination camp, and from his hiding places around the city witnesses the Warsaw ghetto uprising i
Śmierć miasta = The Pianist: The Extraordinary Story of One Man's Survival in Warsaw, 1939–45, Władysław SzpilmanThe Pianist is a memoir by the Polish-Jewish pianist and composer Władysław Szpilman in which he describes his life in Warsaw in occupied Poland during World War II.
After being forced with his family to live in the Warsaw ghetto, Szpilman manages to avoid deportation to the Treblinka extermination camp, and from his hiding places around the city witnesses the Warsaw ghetto uprising in 1943 and the Warsaw uprising (the rebellion by the Polish resistance) the following year.
I've read a lot about World War II, but I'd never fully grasped the complete destruction, the utter devastation of the city of Warsaw.
Among the ruins there was a Jewish musician named Wladyslaw Szpilman who had managed to survive for six years, and a German named Wilm Hosenfeld who saved Szpilman's life one last time.
He had a long career as a performer and composer, and died in 2000.The book also includes some excerpts from the diary of Wilm Hosenfeld.
He didn't personally kill or brutalize anyone during the war, but he never flinched from the collective responsibility of the German people for what they allowed Hitler to do to the world.
Monument of the Umschlagplatz in Warsaw today.I don't know how to write a review for such a horrifying account of what Wladyslaw Szpilman experienced as a Jew in Warsaw during the Holocaust.
His writing is very dispassionate and precise, yet he really brought forth the horrors of the war and his daily life struggles with losing his family, hunger, stress, uncertainty and fear at that time.
What makes the Holocaust especially gruesome is the systematic "war-machine" approach to exterminate certain peoples, in particular the Jews.
Even though I've read my share of Holocaust-accounts (I went to a German school), I still get shivers thinking that everything described in the book actually took place in real life.
This book is a stunner, bringing to life the horrific conditions and brutality that Wladyslaw Szpilman endured to survive six years of Nazi brutality in Warsaw, Poland.What's truly amazing about this book is how Szpilman tells the story with a sense of detachment - the barbaric killing that he sees up close; his final moments with his family, when he realizes shortly after they are gone that will never see them again; his bearing witness to the piles and piles of corpses; and mindless executions for some minor infraction, etc.
Hosenfeld's diary entries in the back of the book add much to the story and torpedoes the assumption that every single Nazi had no heart and enjoyed the killings (although an overwhelming majority did, in this reviewer's opinion).This book is invaluable to Holocaust scholars and World War II students alike.
Um relato incrível! Por mais livros que leia sobre o assunto, fico sempre sem palavras quando leio mais uma história, mais um relato de alguém que viveu na primeira pessoa tudo isto...
best book talking about war I recommend it
This book is an amazing memoir of a Jew’s survival in Nazi-occupied Warsaw.
Szpilman does not sound at all bitter or angry.
His writing is in fact rather detached and dispassionate.
The German officer’s diary was fascinating.
In fact, retelling his part of the story to my husband over coffee, had me sobbing.
I saw the movie ten years ago and I think that the movie version may be more powerful than the book, except that I don’t recall the German officer part being included.
For me, that part of the book was extremely moving.
Το είχα τελειώσει εδώ και καιρό και απλώς περίμενα να μαζέψω μέσα στο μυαλό μου αυτά που ήθελα να πω, τα οποία τελικά δεν πρόκειται να πω. Όταν ένα βιβλίο σου δημιουργήσει τόση συγκίνηση, τόσο συναισθηματικό ταρακούνημα ποιος ο λόγος να μπεις στη διαδικασία να το φέρεις στα μέτρα μίας κριτικής.
Wladyslaw Szpilman was a trained pianist, a Pole, and a Jew, and in The Pianist, he explains how he survived World War II in the Warsaw Ghetto.
It sounds like the sort of book you'd want your kids to read in high school, so I was surprised to learn that The Pianist was a "banned" book.You can believe the subtitle: this memoir of "one man's survival" is indeed extraordinary.
Even in Israel, people did not want to hear about such things." I was surprised to read this, but Szpilman's description of the Jewish police within the ghetto comes to mind.“You could have said, perhaps, that they had caught the Gestapo spirit.
Quando acabou a guerra já não tinha irmãos nem pais, e a maioria dos amigos tinha morrido às mãos dos nazis.
Foi um oficial nazi que o encontrou no meio dos escombros, morto de fome e frio.
O povo alemão estava tão subjugado quanto os povos invadidos.Após o final da guerra, ambas as famílias mantiveram contacto e foi assim que foi possível o acesso aos diários de ambos e a confirmação de que o capitão Hosenfeld era um ser humano justo que ajudou a salvar muitos outros judeus.
Wladyslaw Szpilman was a pianist in Warsaw Poland for the Polish Radio from 1945 to 1963.
He also played on the Radio program before WWll. He and his parents, brother and sisters lived in the Jewish ghetto.
His family all were captured and sent to the exterminations camps.Wladyslaw spent most of his time hiding in different flats in the ghetto.
He had counted 30 times that soldiers had entered his flat.
He often hid in the attic.Near the end of the war he was befriended by a German officer who asked him to play the piano.
I found that utterly bizarre, considering that the book is a survivor's memoir, so I was expecting an emotional read, filled with personal feelings and insights.
In my humble opinion, these specific excerpts expressing the Nazi officer personal feelings toward the war and the mass murders of the Jews are of an extraordinary depth, haunting to the extreme, and never to be forgotten.What cowards we are, thinking ourselves above all this, but letting it happen.
It is not possible to evaluate a personal account of losing everyone and going through hell.
It is a slim volume but includes all of the horrifying details of the Warsaw Ghetto that you may have seen in the film version of The Pianist, starring Adrien Brody.
He hints that repeatedly going over his musical compositions in his head whilst utterly isolated in hiding may ultimately have kept him sane.Donald Trump, take note: the wall you would like to build to keep Mexicans away from US citizens is no different from the wall the Nazis built around the streets of Warsaw to keep the Jews away from Polish citizens.
What's the source of information for the story?" Twenty minutes later, I had ordered a 3-CD collection of Wladyslaw Szpilman's music and his memoir.
He was clearly in shock as he wrote it, and it often has the feel of an out-of-body experience, but it's what saves the reader from being completely and utterly destroyed by the details of this true story.At one of the ugliest (if not the ugliest) points in human history, when man felt certain that God had turned his face away, Szpilman's story represents a counterpoint of a man who seemed to have the intervention of the Divine at every corner.
Tokios tikros, skausmingos ir atviros knygos niekada nebuvau skaičius.Tai istorija vyro, kuris vedamas mano nuomone savo apsukrumo ir beproto didelės sėkmės išgyveno tai- kas atrodė neįmanoma.
Karas truko 6 metus tai yra beprotiškai ilgas laiko tarpas kurį tau reikia išgyventi, šeši metai, tai tiek daug....
Nuo pat pradžių jis buvo nusprendęs kad neleis jokiam vokiečiui jo nužudyti ar suimti, geriau nusižudys pats.
Ironiška kad žmogus, kuris galiausiai išgelbejo jam gyvybę buvo Vokiečių policininkas.
Ištraukos iš jo dienorašęio taip pat idetos į šia knygą ir yra labai svarbios šiai istorijai.Prieš karą Lenkijoje gyveno 3.5mln žydų, išgyveno vos virš 200 tūkst.
Excellent book! Great info and reading. Definitely recommend this to everyone.
The Pianist is a two hundred page memoir of Wladyslaw Szpilman from Warsaw.
He is a twenty-eight year old Jewish pianist of some renown around Warsaw at the outset of the war.
We know from the intro that Szpilman somehow survives the war and pens the memoir in 1946 and continues on with his life and career in Warsaw afterwards.
The Pianist is one of the most widely read holocaust stories and for good reason.
One of the best memoirs that I have read.
It's hard to know what to write about this book as it is a story of survival that leaves one speechless. Like many, I read the book after seeing the movie. I saw it twice in the cinema; it was adapted to cinema with no changes to the original book. It is an amazing testament to man's will to survive.I remember at the time thinking, whatever so called 'problems' or challenges I was facing, they were nothing. I cannot imagine what it took for Mr Szpilman to go on with his life.
I can definitely tell why this was made into a movie. It was full of sadness, betrayal, turmoil, frustration, and most of the book takes place with the protagonist in hiding in an attic! One of the best Holocaust books I've read because I truly expressed his emotions.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yXWH-...Que relato emocionante de um dos pianista mais famosos de Varsóvia.Gostei mesmo muito deste livro. Super fiel ao filme.
☆4/5☆
Oh humanity !Stop doing what Hitler did to you .
