https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73965.Drinking
I always felt like shit the next day, not to mention inescapably depressed, but I managed to put off those horrible feelings for awhile, to procrastinate actually confronting them and resolving them in a healthy way.
It's like something horrible is about to happen, the most horrible thing you can imagine - no, worse than you can imagine because there's this feeling that there's something you have to do right away to stop it but you don't know what it is you have to do, and then it's happening, too, the whole horrible time, it's about to happen and also it's happening, all at the same time." Earth-shattering hangovers always equal suicidal depression in my world.
After his death she had confirmed her suspicion that he was an alcoholic).
She dispels once and for all the stereotypes of the alcoholic, the most grotesque cases whereby others judge themselves not to have a drink problem.
The book may literally save some readers' lives by drawing to their attention the horror that lurks beneath their denial or ignorance that they do not have a serious problem.The book is a valuable contribution to narratives of addiction and recovery.
After all, who doesn't love a good redemption story?Caroline Knapp's memoir of her alcoholism is one of the best addiction memoirs I've ever read.
One such scene was when she was trying to juggle two boyfriends at the same time.
So she was in a situation where she had two boyfriends and was trying to sneak around to spend time with each of them, but she didn't know how to stop the madness.
This seems to be a common problem for addicts: making poor decisions and not knowing how to fix it because they are so involved in their quest to stay drunk or high.
Drinking alone is what you do when you can’t stand the feeling of living in your own skin.There’s something about sober living and sober thinking, about facing long afternoons without the numbing distraction of anesthesia, that disabuses you of the belief in externals, shows you that strength and hope come not from circumstances or the acquisition of things but from the simple accumulation of active experience, from gritting the teeth and checking the items off the list, one by one, even though it’s painful and you’re afraid.Booze: the liquid security blanket; the substance that muffles emptiness and anger like a clod snow.I understood that a beer, and the one after that and the bottle of wine after that, served a very specific purpose: it kept me from that piercing conscience of self, kept me from the task of learning to tolerate my own company.Without liquor I’d feel like a trapped animal, which is why I always had it.
Caroline Knapp, an Ivy-League educated columnist and editor, shares the story of her slide into alcoholism and her road to recovery with brutal honesty.
I particularly liked the way she continues the analogy through her recovery and labels her relationship with alcohol "a divorce." She not only divorced alcohol, for the first year she "took out a restraining order," and avoided "alcohol the way you'd avoid running into an ex-lover at a restaurant."Some of us have a difficult time understanding the disease of alcoholism and, more to the point, what goes on in the mind of an alcoholic or addict that keeps him/her on this self-destructive path.
I know from experience that it's not fun to write about such difficult personal moments for others to read.
It's hard to read that, page after page without some relief, some laughter, or something hopeful to lift the reader.
And though it sounds strange to say since we're with Knapp throughout a nearly 300-page book, but while I read the book and after I finished it I felt like I didn't really get to know her.
This probably further made it difficult for me to sympathize with her as much as I would have hoped to.
Almost done. Picked this up in my supervisor's office to read when i don't have any calls to make or meetings to run. It had some okay parts, but on the whole Knapp's broad generalizations about alcoholics "Alcoholics do this, alcoholics do that, we do this, blah blah blah" got really irritating. So she was/is an alcoholic--that means she can speak from her own experience, but not from EVERY alcoholic's. Plus her writing was just so... trendy.
The structure was really good--by theme (Denial, Family, Relationships etc.) Not so coincidentally (since I'm the one who requested this book from the library), I've been thinking about alchol's effects on my life, and she really hits the nail on the head about a lot of the illusions and comforts it provides.
After reading this I felt like I should take a magnifying glass to my own life and figure out what I'm using.
By the end of the book, when she had to quit drinking, I felt so relieved that I don't have to.
While this book lacks some of the insights within Appetites, it gives a searing look into the life of a former high-functioning alcoholic.Of course, there is no simple answer.
The personal anecdotes in Drinking give Knapp's analysis life and meaning beyond statistics about alcoholism on a spreadsheet.In reality, though, the drinking merely complicated the sense of fragmentation, contributed to the gradual loss of control.
Your life gets ugly and you drink more.
You drink more and your life gets uglier still.
If you liked this book, I would recommend you check out Knapp's posthumously published memoir Appetites.
Compelling memoir which paints a perhaps counterintuitive picture of what alcoholism looks like. It's pretty depressing.Sarah Hepola's Blackout: Remembering the Things I Drank to Forget is also pretty good :)
It is not a picky lover.This very touching memoir describes in painful detail the highs and lows of alcoholism.
It gives a most insightful look at the emotional and physical damage this disease causes to the alcoholic and loved ones closest to them.
The author also focuses on the misconceptions out there of what a true alcoholic looks like, especially when it’s a female.
Being a wine drinker for years, I can agree and disagree with the common saying.
I can also disagree with the saying as I didn’t always remember what I said at a certain point.Ms. Knapp’s book was certainly a rude awakening for me.
My fear of never being able to have another glass of wine which Caroline so vividly expressed..Her book was truly inspiring and I was saddened to hear that she died in 2004 of lung cancer (when I saw that she had passed away, I was saying a prayer that it wasn’t alcohol related).
If you're from another planet, just a visitor who's never been to Earth before, this book might be interesting to you.If you're a teetotaler who has never had a drink in your life, and you've also lived all alone in a cabin in the woods for your entire existence, this book might be informative and enthralling to you.But if you've ever watched a movie or read a book or imbibed alcohol or met someone who has imbibed alcohol, this book is one big DUH.You mean to tell me that alcohol makes people less shy?!
Possibly the best book about alcoholism that I've ever read.
Caroline Knapp drank for 20 years.
The writing was really good and there were tons of facts in here that helped me learn things like-1.
Knapp was a journalist, and that was obvious to me because of the way the book was written.
The fetishization of alcohol at the beginning of the book is extremely seductive.
While reading it, I craved a glass of white wine, and I don't even really like white wine.Knapp was sober when she died of lung cancer in 2002.
She wrote three other books, including one about the human relationship with dogs.
I thought this was well done. The book addresses one's relationship with alcohol and the difference between not being able to quit and not wanting to. I think the title is excellent. Sadly the author's personality led her to various addictions including anorexia and smoking. This supports recent studies noting that many people who have undergone gastric bypass surgery later struggle with alcohol and other addictions, often leading to depression.  Knapp died too young, from lung cancer secondary to years of smoking. Tragic.
Well-written, informative and emotional story about one women's struggle with alcoholism.
I had the good fortune of reading, before "Drinking," the two contemporary classics of memoir, "Lit" and "Liars Club," both by Mary Karr and both about the subject upon which Caroline Knapp essays.
It is interesting to compare them, because they take very different tacks to the same subject.Knapp is an excellent prose stylist.
What makes "The Liars Club" and "Lit" more highly regarded, I suspect, is the manner in which the subject is considered.
Knapp is used to considering her subjects from a reporter's pov, putting a huge frame around her story, while Karr's frame is much more minimal.
Fabulous on many levels, this book will take you on the nightmarish journey resulting from alcoholism. Articulate, brilliant, talented Knapp brings you through the bowels of hell and back with her as she struggles to overcome the addiction. Powerful writing detailing the pain of this path. A must read for anyone inflicted with alcoholism and for anyone still trying to figure out who's in charge - the alcohol or you.
I'm deep into a self help/memoir kick and I'm not the least bit sorry. I've been thinking more about my own drinking lately and what it means and I've always tended to read/research a problem to death. This book was lovely and introspective but also somewhat dated at this point. I found much more to identify with in Blackout (parts of this were just completely foreign to me). It's still a valuable story and a compelling read.
This is the most powerful book I have read about alcoholism. It is down-to-earth and poignant. I not only felt I got to know the author, but I grew to understand myself and my own history with alcohol, which assisted in positive changes in my life. I was sad to read later than Caroline Knapp died at only 42 years of age. I would have liked to thank her.
This book was fantastic. Best addiction genre autobiography I have read. Knapp wrote with such perception and insight about her disease and how she fought the demon until she surrendered. What I found so sad is that while she got sober and seemed to find serenity, an outgrowth of her addiction ultimately killed her. She was a heavy smoker until she contracted lung cancer and died at 42.
I started with "Take the long way home" and now I'm driven to read the other books written by Knapp/Caldwell to fill in the blanks. I wasn't surprised at how much I learned about alcoholism, but I was at how my empathy I now have for those struggling with it.
I rarely come across books like this one, which I instantly fall in love with and which are destined to be re-read in the future.
In case you aren’t familiar with the term, functioning alcoholics are the ones who lead double lives and masterfully hide their problem from the outside world much like the protagonist of this story did: during the day she was an excellent worker, winning awards and climbing the career ladder; during the evening, she drank herself to oblivion.
And what happened to many more professional people like her - lawyers, financial workers, art dealers - who also shared her plight?
very good stairmaster reading...you'll spend half the time being annoyed with this pretentious chick, and half the time wanting a glass of wine/beer/tequila shot.
Whereas the rest of us are at, apparently, more of a harlequin novel level.
ok--as I've spent more time on the stairmaster with this chick--and on the subway (since she's also great subway reading), I have to modify my initial scorn.
That is, she doesn't spend a lot of time on the "disease" aspect of things, instead organizing her approach around the concept of "relationship." Alcoholism happens to her like a really intense love relationship--one that she's more committed to than anything else.
moving, sad, and gossipy.
being a contemporary of hers living in the same city, it was inevitable that sightings came up with her dog at fresh pond..
she looked wan, and kind.
She talks in the book about being smashed at lunch, but being able to function.
I once met someone who worked with her, who said, actually, on those days she came back from lunch impaired, she couldn't do a thing, and everyone just let her be.
very helpful metaphors throughout "i deserve this now" ..
Caroline Knapp threw my assumptions about alcoholics on their heads.
She tears the veil off of the female alcoholic, a type that we prefer to think doesn't exist.
She was a high functioning alcoholic up until the end, holding a professional job and paying her bills on time.
This memoir is brutally honest about her slow descent into alcoholism: the denial, the depression, the havoc it wreaked with her relationships.
She reveals all the little ways that she deceived herself into thinking that she didn't have a problem, and that she could control it herself.
So far, my favorite quote is, from the first chapter:"Trying to describe the process of becoming an alcoholic is like trying to describe air. It's too big and mysterious and pervasive to be defined. Alcohol is everywhere in your life, omnipresent, and you're both aware and unaware of it almost all the time, all you know is you'd die without it, and there is no simple reason why this happens, no single moment, no physiological event that pushes a heavy drinker across a concrete line into alcoholism. It's a slow, gradual, insidious, elusive becoming."Going well, enjoying it muchly.
i've read this book approx 15 times. because it's great? NO! because i was in spain for 2 months and only had 4 or 5 books written in english and didn't know anyone else there. the first read was okay, but even then seemed repititous and self-indulgent. i applaud the author's putting it all on paper, but didn't enjoy her writing style or her constant retelling of what it's like for alcoholics. she never seemed to let down her guard and talk honestly about what things were like for her specifically.
Drug on a little too long. I wanted to read the subject of "Let's Take The Long Way Home" though, so it was worth it.
Fuckin rad. Holy shit.
