https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76984.While_the_Clock_Ticked
Another great Hardy Boys mystery with Frank and Joe and lots of help from Chet. They are facing more and more dangerous criminals - smugglers this time - and doing great sleuthing work even with no appearance of Fenton Hardy this time around! A fun and exciting read :)
This was not at all what I thought it was going to be.
A man comes to visit the Hardy Boy's father while he is out of town.
He steals into the house and leaves it disgruntled.
Then he returns to the house and knocks on the door again.
The Hardy Boys let him inside to hear his story but he won't talk to them.
Instead he tells them to go out and check the Purdy house if they like to solve mysteries.
In this mystery you will find Frank and Joe tied up in a house along with a clock bomb that is ticking away.1932 edition
Great mystery book for young readers that will keep you glued to every page.
This book is good for people who like to read mystery books and series.
A total page turner!
My son read this aloud to me for homeschooling and loved it--he's obsessed with the Hardy boys. As a child, I read all the Nancy Drew mysteries, but this is my first Hardy Boy mystery. Although a formula mystery, it still contains plenty of "surprises" for 7-10 year olds. And I appreciated the moral character of the heroes--no doubt about right and wrong, good and bad here. This story is both kid and mom approved!
In this book of the Hardy Boys Frank and Joe decide to help out an old friend that is being threatened.
As they try to figure out who these threats are coming from they are twisted and blow like the wind threw this adventure.
It all comes down to seconds at their finger tips determining life or death.
I like my life to be an adventure and that is how I think of these books so it is a lot of fun for me.
When I think of adventure, I think Hardy Boys!
While the Clock Ticked was a very interesting book.
I enjoyed the excitement and suspense that this book contained.
Two brothers try to solve a mystery in their area.
They are faced with many challenges that made the book even more enjoyable.
Towards the end of the book, the Hardy boys are captured by the gang leader of the thieves.
He is about to blow them up when they are saved by a friend.
The ending was the most intense part.
I don't like to read, but when I have to, I enjoy reading mysteries.
The words made me feel like I was in the story.
The Hardy's thwarting of a bunch of jade smugglers (who are stealing Jade in Bayport, USA when China might be a better location for them) almost takes a back burner to them figuring out how a note appeared in the middle of a room. They don't even really catch the thieves, they just figure out they're using some old man's house as their base. This book made little sense to me, and I'm starting to wonder what I ever saw in these books when I was younger.
This is a re-read (and a really quick one, at that!), having read it the first time approximately 48 yrs. ago.What can one say? Tom and Joe, evil villains, car chases, boat chases, foot races, Chet, Aunt Gertrude, really terrible writing. I loved every minute of it. And it only took about 45 of them to polish this off.
Oh man..it's one of the books that got me started on reading. My dad gave this book to me; it was his when he was a boy. I remember being a youngin' and reading a couple of pages at a time. I loved this mystery!
When I caught the first sight of this book I came to know this was an intresting one because I love the books which have an incomplete title. I like the time when the hardys were caught by the leader of the gang. I also liked its style of concluding.Well! it was a nice one.
A fabulous friend gave me a 1930s edition. Read it before re-reading my modernized version. Wow! I almost hate to admit I am glad the books were rewritten. Aunt Gertrude always spoke negatively and the boys seem to only communicate with each other through sarcasm and teasing.
im just going to say right off the bat, but the title While the clock ticked does come into play toward the end of the story. in my opiune the cover picture gives away the ending.this time a like how chet (the hardy boys friend) helps theme bring the smugglers to justis.
im just going to say right off the bat, but the title ¨While the clock ticked¨ does come into play toward the end of the story. in my opiune the cover picture gives away the ending.this time a like how chet (the hardy boys friend) helps theme bring the smugglers to justis.
A Quickie ReviewWhat can I say about this series that hasn't already been said? It's definitely old-school fun, but, that much is obvious.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
Had lots of suspense
...Um, Hardy Boys rocked. I mean rock. I think I'm going to start reading these again for the heck of it. Saved my old box of them. Yes, I read books because of the covers.
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
Again I am reminded how much I love this book and the Hardy Boys.

Here are some reasons I liked the book:- the plot twists (really creative)- characters (stayed the same, but Chet played a larger role this time)Reasons this isn’t worth 5 stars:- Frank BARELY did much in the end (kinda sad actually, he’s the oldest.)- The author kind of... dragged out the plot line a bit too much.
I am not really a mystery type of book reader but I read it and I loved it.The most catchy part was when the young detectives got kidnapped.
Then the whole story changes.The people I would recommend people to read this book is, people who like action and mystery books.
Mystery book are interesting because there can be a huge twist in the book that can change everything.
I liked this book because it makes me want to just keep reading until I finish the book.
The author really likes to keep the readers thinking.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books.
The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.
Frank Hardy is the elder of the two and has dark hair.
Joe Hardy is the younger brother, and has blond hair and blue eyes.
The stories are an unaging series, in which Frank and Joe are always 18 and 17 years of age, respectively.
In the original series the brothers were a younger 16 and 15 years of age, but their ages were increased during the revision process that began in 1959.
Soon after he lets them take the case .Near the end it turns out to be more than a simple case the hardy boys are investigating something way bigger.Warning: Spoilers and discussions of essential plot elements followExposition-The Hardy boys hike to the old purdy house Setting-BayportProtagonist- The Hardy BoysAntagonist-The criminalConflict-The hardy boys are out to solve a case for DalrympleRising Action-The Hardy boys are almost hit by a car which later a cop says he was afterClimax-The hardy boys go to the purdy house and see someone go inside which is followed by screams.Falling action-The hardy boys are tied up by a bomb set to go off.Resolution-The hardy boys are freed by Mr.ApplegateDenouement-The criminal falls to his death when trying to escape and cops come.Memoral Quotes-none
I'm not a huge fan of mysteries, which is probably why I din't care much for this book.
I think it's more suited to middle grade students.
Not a bad book, just not for older readers or myself.
I think it would be better for young readers and might be a good book to teach.
It is a good example of friendship and doing the right thing, which I think all students need to learn at a young age.
And the mystery part of it would probably appeal to a lot of other readers as well.
Probably one of the better in the series - not sure, as I've only read a half-dozen or so of these books.The premise of the secret room(s) in the house was fascinating. The idea of how easily the innocent inventor, Amos Wandy, could be duped was less satisfactory.It was interesting to see how the character of Mr. Dalrymple could be placed in contrasting lights - I wish more could have been done along that angle.Recommended for young readers who think that Harry Potter (or worse, Twilight) are the be-all and end-all in YA literature.
Another classic Hardy Boys tale. This one involves speedboats, secret rooms, being bound and gagged, thievery, and deadly explosives! The cover art is amazing, with our heroes Frank and Joe Hardy each tied up to chairs while a creepy old man slithers out from a secret room behind the grandfather clock. I dawdled when reading this - it does not take several months to finish, only a couple of days.
While the Clock Ticked was a very interesting book. I enjoyed the excitement and suspense that this book contained. Two brothers try to solve a mystery in their area. They are faced with many challenges that made the book even more enjoyable. Towards the end of the book, the Hardy boys are captured by the gang leader of the thieves. He is about to blow them up when they are saved by a friend. The ending was the most intense part. The unexpected almost always happens.(2)
