https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54944.The_Ethical_Slut
I tend to bristle whenever anyone perports to have "the answer." Now, I know this book was primarily designed for people who are already considering a polyamorous lifestyle, or are at least interested in the topic, and several times it said something like "monogamy is fine if you actually choose it"....but then it would go on to talk as if monogamy=depression and polyamory=freedom.
But as was illustrated in so many of the relationships used as examples in this book, very often people in a group love relationship have one person they are the most emotionally committed to - and not even that they are interested in being "life partners" with, owning a house or having kids with - but two people who are committed to each other, and committed to a certain lifestyle together.
I feel like it is written for/by pagan couples in their fifties who go to the Renaissance Faire, i.e. not bisexual ladies in their twenties. It's a good introduction to these concepts, though. Interesting stuff like your hippie parent would tell you about, without having to listen to said parent talk.
They're still angry and mulling over their loss and what happened and one day that same damn argument will swell up and bite you in the ass, even though the winner thought it was over and done and behind them -- they won, so it was done, right?That's where win-win, compromise, agreements come in.
But only if you've hashed out a compromise that's truly a win-win for everybody, something that everyone is happy with and can live with.And all these things seem so self-evident, so, "Well, duh, I knew that."  They're the type of things that when you read them, you're nodding and laughing and going, "Yeah, I totally get that!" and making little notes in the margins and underlining phrases and entire paragraphs.
So I realize that I probably lose radical queer points for not being that into this book, but so goes it. Though it contains some practical tips for polyamory, the tone of much of it rubs me the wrong way. The idea that sex solves everything is clearly oversimplified. No joke, at one point they come quite close to saying that if people had just been having more sex with more people the Holocaust wouldn't have happened.
This book helped me deconstruct the way I have been programmed to think about love, relationships, and how important it is to take care of yourself. Even If you don;t plan on becoming a floozie anytime soon, this book is a really great read.
It's a little twee in parts, but includes a whole lot of good information about how to communicate that can be used by everyone, not just people looking to practice open or polyamorous relationships.I do have a couple of bones to pick, though.
Also, I would not recommend introducing a monogamous partner to the concept of poly or open relationships by just giving them this book without prior conversation.
I already have another partner, you need to adapt," but still.I stress again, that the book has a LOT to recommend it.
Firstly: make no mistake, this is a self-help book.
Be wary if you are someone who dislikes endless cheerleading on why you should respect and love yourself!
-- okay, I'm exaggerating, but people who find self-help jargon grating should proceed with caution.
There's a LOT of "learning to love yourself" stuff in here -- much of it not relating to polyamory at all.However, beneath the cheerleading, there is also practical advice, along with some charming personal anecdotes.
I wish someone could write a book about having multiple sexual or romantic partners without sounding like a god damn flake hippy.
Totally the epitome of the "It was ok" rating. I think the only people who read this book and really really love it are people who are looking for some validation ("it's in a book - it's gotta be legit!") for polyamory. I think polyamory is pretty valid, but the authors seem self-righteous at times, and that really turned me off to this one.
She was estranged from her family because of an incident that happened to her in her SR year of high school.She was a ministers daughter who was pretty much mainstream in her teens.However, she attended a party, got drunk, and went to bed with the town Romeo.
While traumatized at the time by the whole experience she related, “It had a positive effect in her growth as it lead to rejecting the values she was raised she felt if it had not been for that incident and her families lack of support she would have wound up like her mother
This book is an absolute must-read for anyone planning on interacting with other people in any kind of sexual or romantic context, regardless of whether or not they are considering non-monogamy.
It has a lot of good lessons on communication, unlearning jealousy, and talking frankly about your sexual needs and limits.
There were definitely some paragraphs which made me stop and go: "Oh!" - I learned a lot about things I'd thought myself fairly well-versed in already, and came to some big new realisations.
The resources section in the back is likely more helpful to people diving into non-traditional relationships, and is by no means complete, but acts as a good jumping off point.
I would really rate this 3-1/2 stars but I'm not allowed. It's funny that so many books about this stuff are so posi, I guess cuz you wouldn't bother writing a book about all of your failed experiments and the ragged pain and confusion and all that bullshit - maybe all those people just wrote fiction, or weren't writers. Not that I don't think it's worthwhile, but maybe that it's like how desert cookbooks don't talk about hypoglycemia or obesity or anything like that.
I bought it when my then husband of 10 years and his (still) married girlfriend were trying to tell me that "WE" were in a polyamorous relationship (I had no idea what that meant), I wasn't asked, I was told.
Just as I was told if I wanted to continue to remain a part of my husbands life I must learn to get with the program and play by their ever changing rule book, I bought this book to help me navigate this unknown world.
Fast forward to Mar 2014, I am now a happily single 48 year old woman, learning to love who I am at this stage in my life as I navigate through the world of singledom.
The two authors spend A LOT of time talking about how you can be sexual in different ways with different people at different times and I just kept thinking "duh, of course you can." Similarly, their advice is stuff like "schedule time for everyone," "communicate clearly," and "make sure you're making choices consciously." Maybe I was lucky, but I can't imagine anyone making ANY choice about love or sex without really thinking about it-- I mean, good Lord if you're promising a life to someone you SHOULD have given that a lot of thought.
When my friend recommended this book to me I looked it up on Amazon and found that there were two types of reviews for it.
As a result I had to read it.
Sexuality, in particular sexual ethics, is one of those topics about which our society's opinions are particularly schizophrenic.
The Ethical Slut argues that consent of all parties is the only prerequisite for moral sexual behavior and that everything else is just convention.
Agree or disagree - the point is well argued, and it has been thus far at least, an interesting read.
A great reference book on sexuality and polyamory if you treat it as such. Entire chapters were skippable to me but could be useful to someone in another situation. This isn't a book I felt the need to read cover-to-cover and once I realized that I enjoyed it much more!
Both as a human being and as a therapist who specializes in women’s issues and sexuality, I believe that this book is a must-read for us all.
The concept of sexual exploration is profoundly feminist and it requires a careful deconstruciton of the messages and limitations dictated to us by a patriarchal society (sex is shameful, monogamy is the only way to love, partners represent your other half, etc.).
Consent, personal awareness and exploration, communication, honesty; these are all crucial skills that take time to learn and implement in our lives whether your choice is monogamy or any other expression of love and sexuality.
I read this for research I was doing on a paper in my English class regarding the potential sociomoral ramifications of polyamory.
This was my least favorite of the books I read on polyamory.
They ineffectively attempt to provide modern definitions to words generally deemed as crude or crass in polite society.
If you're already a polyamorist perhaps the way this book is written would not be considered offensive, however as a monogamist researching polyamory I found it distasteful and disrespectful to a group of people who are attempting to garner positive recognition.
...ninguém é de ninguém...http://youtu.be/pEkOmzJS7g4
This book was helpful in many aspects of my life. It teaches and reminds us that we are responsible for our emotions and reactions, no matter the situation. I loved that one of the authors is a clinical psychologist, and that certainly comes through. It's a caring and understanding book that will give you a firm foundation for exploring life and relationships in their many forms.
It just can't get better than this when a book is discussing how to just be a good and loving person. . .while being a SLUT!!
Speaking personally, I rather like the theory, but I’m not sure if I’d be able to put it into practice.If you do decide that you want to chart the tricky waters of polyamory, however, and do so with respect for the dignity and worth of all concerned, then this is probably the book for you.And it’s those words ‘if you want’ that really helped establish the foundations of this book for me.
It is a guide to healthy relationships overall, whether you are monogamous or not.
While the overall lifestyles discussed in this book are not what I feel would be appropriate for myself or my husband, I did learn very valuable insights in to how/why he and I are so different and why we connect with people much differently.
This book is a practical guide for any human being regardless of relationship status, sexual orientation or religious background.
The overall premise is simple: In order to have successful relationships you have to be ethical with one and other on every level.
i love that i came away from this book with a whole new vocabulary and a way to talk about ethical non monogamy. it's a bit too rosy at times, but overall provides some good guidelines for couples thinking about poly
This book had some useful nuggets of information on jealousy, communication, and ways to encourage people to get what they need from their relationships (romantic or otherwise) that I think are applicable to everyone, not just people in poly situations. Given my age and educational background, some of the stuff that was supposed to blow my mind, didn't. I also agree with some of the other reviews that have described the book at a bit too cheerful and "let's all love each other" but I'm glad people like that exist.
Abandonado por AUTOAYUDA. Es muyyyyy flojo, solo dice obviedades todo el tiempo y la narración quiere ser divertida y se hace muy pesada.No es para nada lo que esperaba.
This book gives great advice on how to make that idea work in your own life.Ethical Slut is useful no matter where you fall on the spectrum: if you want to be completely faithful to two people, you can find advice on balancing your time and keeping all parties content; if you want to sleep with whoever crosses your path, you'll find advice on staying safe and taking care of yourself emotionally.
It's a practical book with great advice for any relationship, ethically and emotionally speaking, although monogamous readers won't get much out of some chapters.
I learned that I should actually read about the subject matter on the back of the book, before I start picking up titles in the sex section. If you are looking for open relationships, multiple sex goddess references and atypical views on multiple partners then this is the book for you. I have a hard enough time with one person, thank you very much.
Somewhere in the middle, however, I stumbled upon the chapter about cheating, and it even made me put the book aside for a while, for I couldn't respect it enough.
But let us talk from the beginning.First of all, I strongly recommend "The ethical slut" to everyone, who has ever had, is having or planning to have sex at some point in their lives.
are discussed in the book almost on every page, and yet, when "the relationship might be already open, only one partner doesn't know about it yet" is not something to approve of, imo.
I'd already been taught almost everything in this chapter when I was doing Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (my training to be a rape crisis responder also helped, since that included a lot of practice in being a good listener), but this is the kind of thing that you really can't think about too much.I had already learned a lot about polyamory online, in zines, and by talking to people, but I still learned some new things from The Ethical Slut, especially on the chapter about jealousy.
