https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/276342.Angel_Falls
Quite a heavy load of clichés are thrown in to establish the all-american entertainment family feeling - those television and movie families, the do-gooders, the divine carriers of the American feel-good genes.Living and working in a harsh environment, I often indulge in this kind of reads because deep down inside I want to believe that the good people in the world is still winning; and the good people set the standards of the good things in life, such as happy family Christmastimes, and happy family birthday celebrations, etc.
I find it very hard to fathom that once he shows up in town, no one figures out why he's there as well as the obvious paternity of Mikaela's oldest child, Juliana Celeste (Jacey).
I find it very hard to believe that the famous movie star meets a poor girl in a diner and can't stop thinking about her, so marries her, then leaves her, but still she's the only woman he's ever loved.Despite the very obvious need for a suspension of disbelief in order to read this book, I found I couldn't put it down.
It was written over 10 years ago by Kristin Hannah (my fave author!) but it lacks the appeal that her most recent books do.
The main characters learned about themselves and grew on their new found knowledge of themselves and their loved ones.Some things that bothered me about this book, for one, was the little boy acted too young, it wasn't an accurate portrayal of a nine year old.
I wasn't quite sold on that either.I liked how the story played out for the most part but of all of the books I've read of Kristin Hannah's, this is my least favorite.
This story is overly sweet - like a classic cupcake, a sweet burst of flavour, but not very filling.
Once eaten, one decides not to have another cupcake for a little while ;) Mikaela falls off her horse and sustains a head injury.
(view spoiler)[Her previous husband is none other than the hottest current Hollywood star ...
*insert eye roll moment* (hide spoiler)] The story then follows the struggle of her family - her husband, her mother and her 2 children, as they battle to keep everything together and hope today is that day that Mikaela will wake up.
"It was like that these days. The best of times were quiet moments like this one, tucked into the corners of what passed for everyday life. They were learning, each of them, to notice the things they'd once taken for granted. And to be thankful for the life that was left."-as they wait for mother, daughter and wife Mikaela to wake up from her coma-
Here Mikaela nurtures a broken heart, raises a family, and settle into life.
The re-appearance of Julian True into her life allows Mikaela to finally come to terms with her past and discover things about herself she has never realized.The characters are what support and makes the story.
Central to the story is Mikaela's family who represent solidity and security in her life.
It is the accident that provide Liam and Mikaela the chance to find significance in their love, re-affirm their love, and strengthen the bonds of their family.
I really didn't like this.
I HATED that Liam's Hispanic mother in law called him Dr Liam - she may as well have cleaned his house as well to perfect that whole second class citizen thing she had going on.
And speaking of names, every time someone called Brett, the son, Bretster I hated this book just a little more.
How can I connect with characters insisting on using stupid names like Dr Liam (for your son in law, FFS) and Bretster?Sentimental drivel that will steal your precious time and leave you wondering WTF you are reading this crap.
Angel Falls was a challenging book to write at the time.
For Michaela, the heroine of this book, the choice was between her first and second husbands—one who had swept her away with his passion and broken her heart, and the other, who had grounded her with the constancy of his love and healed her soul.
As a novelist, the challenge was to create two men worthy of her love so that the reader could reasonably believe either choice; as a writer, the challenge was to write a triangle love story primarily through the two men’s viewpoints.
In the years since its publication, Angel Falls has proven to be a real "love it or hate it" book.
I've read multiple books by this author and liked every one of them.
This one was just too much like an over-the-top Hallmark movie.
One of the first things that got me out of this book was her portrayal of Bret.
I have a 4th grader myself, and I could not get over how off she was in how Bret acts, she's giving him the characteristics of a 4 year old, not 4th grader.
If this were the first book I'd read by this author, I would have never picked up one of her books again.
I don't usually read books like this but I enjoyed it. Sweet love story.
Kalemini konuşturmuş yine <3
While she's in the coma, her family does everything to try to wake her up, but nothing works until her husband Liam discovers the identity of her first husband, a famous Hollywood actor, Julian True.
It's his name that Mikaela responds too and as a result, Liam contacts Julian in the hopes that he can bring her out of the coma.
She does remember her and Julian's daughter Jacey, but believes she's still a child and not the 16 year-old that she actually is.
The book is beautifully written with well developed characters and a strong story that had me hoping for a happy ending.
I have never read anything by Kristin Hannah before.
I read this one for my book group.
Yes, it was a little sappy and sentimental and tear-jerking - not my thing - but I was distanced enough from it all to find it a bit intriguing.
And also a bit unbelievable.
I kept thinking - yeh, but what about this?
don't you think that.
Not sure I'd read another Kristin Hannah book, but I could see how it could be like Doritos - can't have just one.
I recently read The Great Alone and loved it, so I picked up another Kristin Hannah book.
I got through Angel Falls, but found the writing to be far inferior to The Great Alone.
I absolutely could not enjoy Angel Falls once I started noticing errors in the Spanish phrases used in the book.
A few examples are as follows:“Buenos noches” should be “buenas noches”“Stupido” should be “estúpido”“Recuerdes”, in the context in which it is used, should be “recuerdas”As a fluent Spanish speaker and a teacher for 35 years, I simply cannot fathom a writer, her publisher, and her editor overlooking the simple task of asking a native speaker to check the Spanish used in the book.
These errors would be spotted by any native Spanish speaker.
Gostei muito deste Em Nome do Amor e, apesar de achar que merecia que uma certa parte fosse mais desenvolvida para ser melhor entendida, as 280 páginas resultaram de forma espetacular.
(view spoiler)[Penso que os leitores perceberiam melhor o lado de Mikaela se fosse mais explicada como era a sua vida de casada com Julian, há tantos anos atrás.
I felt like I have read it before, not impossible since I have only started keeping up with the books I've read this last couple of years.
Liam discovers his wife was married to her first love, a superstar actor, while looking through her closet for a dress for his daughter (who is the result of the first marriage).
Mike has always hid the identity of her first husband from both Liam and her daughter, this seemed a little unrealistic.
Anyway it was known between both Mike and Liam that the love from the first Marriage was still present.
While the plot was good and it outlined a good story, you think the main character will be Mike and it ends up being the Liam and kids.
I felt the story did touch on some major issues of love and commitment but it in a way that she held a torch for someone she will never get, but yet fell in love with her husband - but only in a "I settled for" way.
This book just really didn't touch me the way others of her books have - some parts did when the kids were upset, it just was not the emotional roller coaster ride I've come to expect from Hannah.
After reading this, I want to find my husband and hug him. Gosh...every woman out there needs a Liam. I cried a couple times during this book. The author did an excellent job at conveying his turmoil and struggles in dealing with his wife's coma.
This is my second book by this author. I enjoyed reading this book. This author writes similarly to Jodi Piccoult. Mickela Campbell is a wife and mother of two. She never told her second husband she was previously married. When she suffers a brain injury from falling off a horse, she falls into a coma. Her husband hopes she will wake up soon. Hoping to wake her up, he calls her ex husband in hopes he will help. If she does wake up, which life will Mickela remember?
Devido a um grave acidente Mikaela entra em coma e a partir daí segredos do passado são revelados, mas os laços familiares e o mais importante o poder do amor são fundamentais para a cura de toda a família.Uma vez mais Kristin Hannah apresenta-nos uma história maravilhosa e em que a família é o ponto fundamental.
3.5 Stars
Muito boa história.
Very disappointing Kristin Hannah book. Maybe because it was written in 2005 and she hadn't reached her stride yet but I would tell fans of Kristin Hannah to not read this book - it is not the quality we are used to and it didn't make me cry once!And it was a really bad audio. If you as a reader cannot come up with good voices - then just read the text and we will figure out who is talking.
Kristin Hannah não desilude, e foi interessante ler este livro da perspectiva do homem, quando maioritariamente, são as mulheres fortes que compõem os livros desta autora.embora o tenha achado um pouco previsível não deixa de ser uma boa leitura
I liked it, but I thought the nine year old was depicted as more babyish than real life.....Kept my attention, really wanted to know what would come next.
This is easily my least favorite of all the Kristin Hannah books I've read.
Maybe it was just the nature of the story, but I felt zero connection to the characters in this book.
I hate being told how to feel about a character and it felt like his selflessness and unwavering love for his wife was a little too thickly slathered on and crammed down my throat.
So, this book that held my attention and took me basically no time to read, just really fell short of my expectations.
This is the first book I've read of Kristin Hannah's that actually felt like sickeningly sweet chick-lit.
I appreciated the love that Liam had for his wife Mikaela-- especially when she was still hoping that her 1st love, Julian, who was the Brad Pitt of Hollywood, would come back for her.
I think what I most loved about this book is that it really portrayed what true love is-- not just obsession, lust, and the beginnings of a relationship-- but love as it's developed and gone thru hard times and still remained with a greater appreciation for one another and respect.I thought Julian redeemed himself when he let go and didn't try to 'win' Mikaela back, but fully let go and didn't try to get her back and upset the relationship between their child, Jacey, and her step-dad, Liam, who really was her Dad in how her raised and loved her.
I loved the characters and at times even felt sorry for Julian.
Liam was my best character - he was greater than life itself - when the life of his wife Mikaela was at stake.
I read the Hebrew translation of Hadas Weiss, who also translated Summer Island of Kristin Hannah.
אהבה היא להיות נוכח, זה הכול.
אהבה היא אנשים ספורים שעומדים יחדיו בסלון, מקשטים עץ חג המולד בקישוטים שמייצגים את המכלול של מי שהם, את מקום הימצאם ואת הדברים שהם מאמינים בהם.
אהבה היא רגעים יומיומיים פשוטים המונחים כמו לבנים, זה על גבי זה, עד שהם יוצרים יסודות כה יציבים עד ששום דבר לא יוכל להפילם.
This is not a gushy romance story, rather it is a moving tale of a family struggling to get through the most challenging time of their lives.
The characters where easy to relate to and I found a little of my own life story in the pages of this book, having been raised by a man who was not my biological father but loving just the same.I came across this book on audio and will definiately read more books by Kristin Hannah as I loved her style and the way in which she told this story.
This is not my normal type of book, but the women that I work with kept talking it up, so the next time it was up for someone to borrow it I grabbed it. I found it to be a little schmaltzy and hokey, and even at the end I am still mad at Mikaela. Liam and her kids deserve better, sure she thinks she can change, but she has a long time to make up for in my eyes.
