https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62485.The_Icewind_Dale_Trilogy_Collector_s_Edition
I cannot believe that R.A. Salvatore is a bestselling fantasy writer, and that I actually stomached my way through the entire trilogy (I was drunk most of the time, and I almost puked on the heavy tome during one sordid evening).The stories follow the journeys of Drazzt Drowploixtation, Generic Dwarf Warrior, Man-Man the Barbarian, and Hot Ass-Archer Sniper Bitch as they generally murder everything throughout Icewind Dale and beyond.
The characters are already immortally powerful, and they dispatch every challenge with a modicum effort.The heroes are often severely injured and yet are still being able to commit genocide against entire gangs of brigands, races of trolls, and kill at least two dragons, which all happens in the first two books.
I find these hard to rate now, because I read most of them around ten years ago.
In fact, they're the books that really got me back into reading fantasy and back into reading in a way I'd never experienced before.
For that, it has to be 5* - If only for Drizzt and the gang, all of who I know so well (but it's not just those characters, it's the world, the stunning action and that oh so fantasy feel to this series as a whole).Perhaps I'll revisit these in the future.
I'll at the least encourage my daughter to read them when she's old enough.JP
His wise advice can be used in real life and is a metaphor for not judging people by what lies on the outside, but instead for their actions and what's inside.At times I had to chuckle, because I could almost see the progression of the characters as PC's in a D&D game.
That didn't detract from my enjoyment of the tale at all.Fun reads and definitely entertaining and I'm happy to learn more about Forgotten Realms too as more knowledge would be useful for the current module D&D 3.5 game I'm playing.All in all, a fun rollicking adventure romp with some morality & life lessons for good measure.
I'm sorry, I just can't get into books like this.
I started reading this book at the suggestion of my husband but I just can't.
I like fantasy fiction but I'm a bit picky about this particular genre because I can't get into books like this.
The names of people and places are ridiculously hard to pronounce (even just in your head), the scenes & stories are typical cliche's and it is extremely difficult for me to get into the story at all.
Its just not for me.However I'm sure someone that enjoys high fantasy such as World of Warcraft and Dungeons and Dragons on a frequent basis would really enjoy these books.
I started reading Salvatore with this series, however, would recommend that you instead begin with The Dark Elf Trilogy if you want to read them in chronological order.After Drizzt leaves the underworld, he finds himself in Icewinde Dale.
I didn't realize how much I enjoyed the fight scenes until I read other fantasy and felt like the battles were lacking in depth and detail.
I've read almost everything Forgotten Realms except the very recent, and would recommend it to any fantasy lover.
Also, if you are new to fantasy, this would be a great starting place!
It's been a couple of years since I've read it, but I still remember how much I loved it.
I thought it was probably best three-book-series I have ever read.
To tell the truth, I was sad when it was over.
The story-lines and plots are great.
They're thought out and entertaining to read.
The characters are also extremely well thought out.
Even without a story line or plot, I think that they'd be enough to keep someone interested in the books.
Amazing fantasy adventure taking place in the Dungeons and Dragons Forgotten Realms universe. This series starting with this set of three books is in my top five series ever. I have only started reading them recently and have already gone through the first nine books, including the three in this collection. I recommend getting the collector's editions, as they not only put the books together, but also add commentary from the series' main character Drizzt Do'Urden, which add a great deal to the story.
I probably wouldn't have enjoyed it any better if I'd started with this set, but at least I wouldn't have been so disappointed in seeing my beloved Drizzt turned into a cardboard character.
I cared nothing for Bruenor or Cattie-Brie and don't get me started on the annoying Regis.The books have Salvatore's constant problem of switching point of view at frequent and random points, often paragraph to paragraph.
I hate not to finish books I've started, so I stuck it out, naively hoping Drizzt would improve, but of course he didn't.
It's obvious that the writer meant for his ideas, and perhaps idealism, to come across, which perhaps doesn't make it a better book, but I can't help but smile at the effort.As for the clichés: the storyline in the final book of the trilogy was actually quite unique in some ways, although the writing style kept the same pretentious tone and the general turn of events was clear from the start.
If you can look past those, and somehow manage to get used to the oftentimes trying writing style (I still don't know how I did), I think there is something to like for everyone in the stories of Icewind Dale.
book 1: Much like the games, it's a hack-n-slash with bits of "oh, i would really rather go party it up, but i should rescue the villagers first" morality, but despite a certain amount of cheesiness practically required by all the D&D-based books, this one was surprisingly entertaining.
it works!
Things which would have annoyed me to no end in a more serious work make a surprising amount of sense in what is, in effect, an extended D&D session.
I have been entertained, so I guess that's all that counts.
It has been about a decade since I found this book, and I truthfully don't remember what led me to it, but Drizzt and his loyal, steadfast friends quickly became my favorite characters in literature.
I have "only" rated this at four stars because no one is going to mistake it for Great Literature.
What it is is a wonderful escapist read starring a character who is such an outcast from his evil society that he is almost at war with himself, and a wonderful supporting cast who have each others' backs through thick and thin as they have grand fantasy adventures intimately interwoven with morality fables.
Drizzt Do’Urden – the mostly shunned drow elf ranger that lives on the surface and tries to live down the well deserved evil reputation of his race.
Cattie-Brie Battlehammer, the beautiful dwarf raised human girl that is the adopted daughter of Bruenor.
Wulfgar, the mammothly huge barbarian that is taken under Bruenor’s wings and trained by Drizzt.
The characters are well developed and fun enough with fast paced plot lines to keep the reader engaged but at the same time easy enough to understand that the reader knows they can put the book down for a few days and come back later without losing important details.
I started this trilogy as soon as I finished "The Dark Elf Trilogy" but quickly bogged down on the Dale. This trilogy includes the novels "The Crystal Shard," "Streams of Silver," and "The Halfling's Gem." They were nowhere near as addicting as the chronologically earlier work, perhaps because Drizzt does not appear to be as fully fleshed out. Be that as it may, I enjoyed these novels and would recommend them to anyone who loves a good story.
Who doesn't like the fantasy classics? This was one of my first reads in the fantasy genre when I was younger and has helped to create the addiction I have to this day.
One of the top 5 fantasy writers of all time. And this is his best series. One of the more violent series, but that isn't necessarily a bad thing in fantasy.
This is the first Forgotten Realms trilogy that Salvatore wrote and the one that introduced the drow ranger Drizzt Do'Urden.
These are 1980's fantasy books that are heavily influenced by D&D, much like the DragonLance series, as they are set in the Forgotten Realms campaign setting.
I don't know the Forgotten Realms world very well.
Possible spoilers below for the various books that make up this trilogy.The Crystal Shard - Nothing too memorable here in my opinion but it is a decent adventure that introduces the major characters and the region in which they reside.
Again, a magical weapon is found at an opportune time.The Halfling's Gem - The companions go to rescue Regis the halfling from Artemis Entreri.
My first Salvatore book was The Dark Elf Trilogy, which happens to be the prequel to this trilogy.
Some may disagree because of the fact that Icewind Dale was written first, but I personally couldn't imagine reading the events out of order..that would be weird and annoying.Anywho, I enjoyed this trilogy very much; each book takes you on an epic journey full of adventure.
Everybody loves dragons :)Anyway, I guess what I am saying is that, while there may be "better" fantasy books out there, this book is fun..
The Icewind Dale Trilogy was one of the first fantasy novels I remember reading as a teenager, and I recently decided to revisit it.It has not aged well.I have no complaints with the plots of each book: the battle against Akar Kessel, the search for Mithril Hall, and the rescue of Regis.
Finally, in The Halfling’s Gem, we start to get a theme, as Drizzt struggles with his identity behind the mask.Future installments, the Legacy of the Drow quartet, the Paths of Darkness trilogy, and the Hunter's Blades trilogy are better, as R.A. Salvatore's writing style matures and the characters have more depth.
For that reason, read the Icewind Dale trilogy simply to have the backstory and context.
I recently read the Eragon series and enjoyed it as well, so I think that I will get into fantasy a lot more.
I have seriously enjoyed how reading a fantasy book seems to take you to the place and make you feel like a part of the book.
One of my favorite genres is science fiction.The Icewind Dale Trilogy was an amazing book/series and I seriously enjoyed it.
The book is very well written and makes the reader feel like you are present and in the story.
But throughout the trilogy, you feel as if you know Drizzt personally.
The publisher really must think poorly of its readers to publish a special "Collector's Edition" and yet to slather the pages with typos, misprints, errors, and formatting mistakes.Anyhow, annoying details aside--this is obviously Salvatore's earliest work in the series, and generally, as a writer.
It's fun and probably inspiring if you play D&D, which the publisher would probably like for you to do.Anyhow, I would not recommend these three novels (and even less the poorly edited "Collector's Edition"--a mockery of what fans would desire) unless you are wanting to get into the more recent Drizzt stories and want to start at the beginning.
The trilogy wasn't the most memorable that I've read, but that's not to say it wasn't excellent. I'm not absolutely certain of this, but it seems to me that by the time the series was finished Drizzt's story was still in it's infancy, and I think the books reflect that. Altogether an enjoyable story. It just felt a little lacking when compared to the other stories of the legendary Dark Elf I've read by Salvatore.
I’ve read 200 page books that felt longer than this one, at about 1000 pages. Honestly one of the most compelling characters and set of companions I’ve ever read about. Can’t wait to read the next adventure. 100% you should read the first collection of books first. Drizzt Do’Urden may be the most fascinating character in all of writing. You won’t regret starting this book.
I am really sad how much this felt like a slog. There were so many characters, changing locations, and fight scenes that I felt I was missing any character development or connection to the story or characters. I now understand why I have put this book down multiple times before. I am really unsure if I will read any further in this world.
Wow! Another masterpiece fantasy novel by a very talented storyteller and writer. This is my second 1000+ page book(3 books each) and the story of Drizzt and his traveling friends only gets better. Looking forward to the next 3 book 25th anniversary edition! Love these characters! Great read!😎
The Icewind Dale Trilogy collects the first three books Salvatore published about the drow swordsman and, as I cracked open this massive, thousand plus page tome, I realized just how much I missed this world.The Crystal Shard remains my favorite of the trilogy, a generational coming of age story of the great barbarian Wulfgar that weaves together a large and sophisticated cast of characters into a tight narrative, complete with shifting alliances, political intrigue, siege and combat, that culminates in a J.R.R. Tolkien-esque “Battle of Five Armies.” The book also has a tremendous amount of heart and is rollicking fantasy fun.
Oh, how amazing are fantasy novels. Full of magic and incredible battles, and able to cleverly disguise a complete treatise on race relations. Absolutely brilliant! Drizzt is an amazing and complex character-don't let the veil of "fantasy" fool you-this set of books is amazing!
I read these books back in 2006 and I still remember the characters and that I absolutely enjoyed them.
AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
It's good but I've never cared for snowy settings.
Dnd-based storytelling with heavy doses of racial overtones and parallel lessons to real life. Follows one character and his auxiliary band of misfits.
