https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6325285-rubinrot
I'll be uploading my review to my YouTube channel abookutopia!! (I review both the book & the movie).Loved this book!!!
One of the main reasons I loved this book was because it was constantly exciting.
I never found myself thinking "I wish this would speed up!" Obviously, because this is the first book, there is a fair bit of information dropping to set up the whole world concept, but the author did this in entertaining ways by weaving it into conversations and other moments.
I was so lucky in this book that not only did I have a thrilling plot, but I also sad home of the best characters I've read in a while!
I think I would have loved this about 10 years ago, but now the silliness and mental age of the narrator is off-putting.The characters are in their mid-to-late teens but all of them feel like middle school kids.
Take these two early scenes:Mr Whitman took Gordon's test back from him, turned a page, and read out, "Elizabeth I was so ugly that she couldn't get a husband.
So everyone called her the Ugly Virgin."The class giggled.And:"Lesley thinks it may be a good thing that James died young.
With a name like Pympoole-Bothame, how would he ever have found a wife?" I said, after making sure James was out of hearing distance.
“If we were in a film, the villain would turn out to be the least-expected person.
But as we aren’t in a film, I’d go for the character who tried to strangle you.”I just love this trilogy!
If I need something to cheer me up I just know that the Precious Stone trilogy is the right thing to read.
The plot is so light and fast-paced, this is easily one of the most entertaining books/book series ever.
It never once gets boring with them.I've read (and listenend to) these books multiple times and I will do it again and again in future.Find more of my books on Instagram
( I usually checked Goodreads like 3 or 4 times in a day ) but since I've been pretty busy with college and assignments, maybe I'll just check it once or twice at the most in a day and I promise to reply the comments or the messages as soon as possible.
and I would certainly snap at him every time he acted like an arrogant jerk.and now about Gwyneth, I could not connect to her at all.
4 SOLID STARS! Full review to come!
Loved this book! Gwen is such a charming and funny character, her voice and personality were great! The time travel aspect was well thought out, and I'm really liking how the main mystery is developing. Definitely looking forward to finishing this trilogy! (Even though the third book doesn't come out until OCTOBER! *sigh*)
After finishing chapter 1 I decided to drop it after chapter 2, and so it went...Gwyneth is a member of the family of time-travelers.
Every other generation or so her family produces a girl who starts uncontrollably travel into the past and back for short stretches of time at around the age of 16.
A lot of drama ensues and the girl is thrown into a web of old secrets and conspiracies that up to that point have been hidden from her.Considering the fact it only took me about 4 hours to read Ruby Red in its entirety, it's safe to say it is a reasonably entertaining and fast-paced novel.
The story starts out in modern times with Gwyneth watching her cousin train to be a time traveler.
One person in each generation in their large family is born with the ability to travel back in time (they can't control it -- they just suddenly vanish) and everyone assumes it's the cousin.
Suddenly Gwyneth is swept up into the institute of "guardians" who were previously training the cousin for their plans.
there's a second missing chronograph, two missing time travelers from previous generations, and a whole lot of people with conflicting plans.
I had so much fun reading this book. I love the narrator! I just posted my booktalk/discussion: http://youtu.be/b5bTqUrWG2I =D
Also she sees dead people.There are two families in this London with a secret "time travel" gene that manifests in the de Villiers men and the Montrose women.
And now a threat from the past is about to enter the present, because of course it is.Content AdvisoryViolence: Gideon de Villiers and Gwen are attacked by assassins in the eighteenth century.
Even the sparks between her and the much cooler Gideon are plausible enough; the book just asks us to believe that they are attracted to each other, not that they're already in love after two days of knowing each other.
I didn't love it as much as other young adult books out there, but I think that's mainly because I listened to this as an audiobook, which I've never done before.
The story is centered in England so it was kind of fitting anyway.First of all, I loved the whole time traveling idea and it was thought out beautifully!
The side characters, like Leslie, James, Gwyneth's mom, Lucy, Paul, and even Charlotte, were all pretty interesting and likeable.
I really hope to see some major character development in the next books.All in all, I liked it but I didn't love it.
I'd love to read more aboud Gwyneth's supposed magic as well.
Glad I read it. I did enjoy it but I hope the sequels pack more of a punch.Caution - LOTS of fat shaming in chapter 11.
Ingredients Needed:- A time travel story.- Set in England.- Some scenes taking place in Victorian England.- A fun (yet somewhat annoying) main character.- A smart and cute love interest.- A secret society of time travelers.Directions:Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.
When I figured out that this book had all of those elements, I knew that I was going to love it.This book had its issues, especially the grammar (yes, I do know that this book was written in German and then translated to English) but I adored it nonetheless.
I don't even think it says how old she is until late in the book, which left me feeling a little off about her character.
So much of the story was a bunch of old English people sitting around talking to each other.The story of the guardians and the time travelers is so full of plot holes, and so many questions that I have aren't even alluded to.
As if the author didn't really know how to explain why there is an apparent "time travel" gene.
What's the point of the time traveling if it's only for a few minutes to a couple of hours?
I cannot believe how much I loved this book. I ended up reading it in one sitting because I was so engulfed in the plot. There are so many questions I have that need to be answered so I quickly put the other two books of the trilogy on hold at my library. I ended up ordering pizza from Dominos because I did not want to put the book down to cook. lol
The blurb alone would be evidence enough of that, two particular sentences stand out the most:"can spend her time hanging out with her best friend, Lesley, watching movies and talking about boys."Oh and it gets worse..."He's obnoxious, a know-it-all, and possibly the best-looking guy she's seen in any century..."So, from this blurb you can easily gather that the romance is going to pretty central to the plot and if you have to happen to like that, that is great and you may well just enjoy this book.
“Ready when you are.” Ruby red, with G major, the magic of the raven, brings the Circle of Twelve home into safe haven.This book is incredibly mind-blowing.Time travel. Chronograph. Ghost-encounter. With a good amount of suspense and mystery.
Gwyneth is a 16 years old school girl.
She was raised in a family full of secrets where her cousin Charlotte was the center of attention and care.
Until all her efforts were in vain and Gwyneth was the actual time traveler of the family.
The gene carrier of the de Villiers family.
But also arrogant and treat our heroine like she's a useless ordinary girl.
First of all, time traveling and telling things about the future here and there should much more complicated.
No, the whole family is messed up, truth be told.(view spoiler)[It was too obvious that she wasn't her daughter.
“If we were in a film, the villain would turn out to be the least-expected person. But as we aren’t in a film, I’d go for the character who tried to strangle you.”  It was an enjoyable read. I liked this book. It was fast paced and a cute story. I would lie if I say I like the majority of the characters. I felt a little sad for Gwendolyn because almost everyone around her acted like spoiled brats however, I'd survive anything if I had a best friend like Leslie.Overall it was a short and quick r
“If we were in a film, the villain would turn out to be the least-expected person.
But as we aren’t in a film, I’d go for the character who tried to strangle you.” 
It was an enjoyable read.
I liked this book.
It was fast paced and a cute story.
I would lie if I say I like the majority of the characters.
I felt a little sad for Gwendolyn because almost everyone around her acted like spoiled brats however, I'd survive anything if I had a best friend like Leslie.Overall it was a short and quick read and I really enjoyed it.
Had some aspects I liked (i.e. time-travel), and others I didn't (i.e. the arc of the story).All right synopsis first: Gwen is a sixteen-year-old girl who lives in London (the book was written in German originally so I'm not sure why that setting was chosen).
What kind of bothered me was how Gwen has thoughts and says things like a twelve or thirteen year old which would have been fine if that was her age.
Then when she meets Gideon and gets in deep with the time-traveling stuff she shifts, which was nice to see but kind of abrupt for me.
I read this in one sitting for the #rainbowthon 2.0 and I really enjoyed it!I definitely feel like this was a great opening and solid setup for the rest of the trilogy; but while it was incredibly fun there was definitely no rising action or climax in the story.
It was also a bit predictable (seriously, I saw that twist coming from the prologue) but I love Gwen (and her friendship with Lesley!) so much that that didn't bother me as much as it usually does.
The romance (or lack thereof) was also very refreshing...although I do want to see it develop more in the next book because I want to swoon a little bit.
I can seriously not express my love for this book. Maybe a five star rating is a little bit too much but literally my mind is blown at this moment!!
It's all a bit silly.Then there's this whole secret society thing where everybody in the world knows about time traveling but nobody knows what they actually do with these powers.
Nothing ever good comes out of something like that, especially when ONE OF YOUR FUCKING TEACHERS IS IN THE SECRET SOCIETY.The love interest, Gideon, was rather stupid and shallow.
As soon as Gwyneth is special, Gideon likes her.
There's insta-love and a male lead that ended up irritating the hell out of me.
Male lead is an idiot and shallow as hell too.
Tο περίμενα πολύ καλύτερο, διότι πάνω από το μισό βιβλίο έχει αρκετά αργή πλοκή, πολλές περιττές περιγραφές και μάλλον αφελείς για την ηλικία τους ήρωες.
Ναι, είχε χιούμορ, κ μια πολύ ωραία βιβλιοδεσία, καλή, μεγάλη γραμματοσειρά, ωραίες χοντρές σελίδες και επιτέλους 100 περίπου σελίδες πριν το τέλος η ιστορία άρχισε να παίρνει μπρος.
Μπορεί λοιπόν το κόκκινο ρουμπίνι να μην κατάφερε να με ρίξει, αλλά η εξέλιξη της ιστορίας του, στις τελευταίες 100 σελίδες, με προκάλεσαν να διαβάσω το δεύτερο μέρος κ μου άφησαν την ελπίδα ότι θα είναι πολύ καλύτερο…Υ.Γ.
μετα την αναγνωση και των τριων βιβλίων εγινε μία απο τις αγαπημένες μου τριλογίες.
**** 4/5 ****This felt more like a long prologue, but I didn't love it any less for it. It sucked me in from page 1, and I just ordered the next two books. I am so intrigued, and time travel is seriously a lifelong dream of mine. Plus it is set in London. Seriously, what's there not to love? And a little Gideon don't hurt nobody ;)Can't wait to continue on with this series.
Ich bin so begeistert von diesem Buch, dass ich es in weniger als 24 Stunden gelesen habe. (Das heißt schon etwas, oder? Schließlich passiert das auch nicht bei jedem Buch.)Die Charaktere waren sympathisch, vielfältig und teilweise auch etwas unheimlich. Die Geschichte hat mir bisher sehr gut gefallen. Ich habe immer mit unseren Hauptprotagonisten mitgefiebert. Ich kann gar nicht so recht glauben, dass ich so lange gebraucht habe, um diese Trilogie zu beginnen. Ich freue mich schon auf den 2. Teil!
I actually give this a 4.5, but it was insulting for this magnificent book to be with te rest of the 4 star ones. This book hasn't reached its full potential, due to the "action" only starting over 50% of the book, but I loved it anyway.I'll definitely change my rating through time, because right now I feel fluffy inside (I just finished the book) and I NEED MORE.I believe this series will become a favorite of mine!
Pero no lo hará sola,sino que la acompañará el anteúltimo viajero del tiempo que también posee el gen,una inteligencia increíble y sobretodo una personalidad muy arrogante.La historia me ha encantado de principio a fin.
Apenas comencé a leerlo sentí que me iba a divertir mucho con esta historia y así fue.Si bien no sabemos hasta el fondo quienes son estos viajeros del tiempo o los vigilantes y tampoco sobre los secretos que ocultan estas familias portadoras del gen de "saltar en el tiempo",tenemos bastante información para quedarnos conforme en el primer libro.
"Ready?" "Ready if you are."Well, that was fun! Not super original, not super greatly written, not very deep. But a story that lets you fall into it and welcomes you.One thing that bothered me: It's a German book by a German author. Why make it play in London like every other young adult fantasy book? Kinda lame. Still happy I read it. :)
