https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/267972.Wait_Till_Helen_Comes
i hated the part (view spoiler)[where helen ripped up all of molly's books and smashed her glass unicorns (hide spoiler)] and i think heather should have been punished more because she was such a brat the whole time.the adult-review of this is more critical, and more focused on one particular element: terrible parenting.
if you recall, molly (12) and michael (10) are siblings whose mother jean has just remarried a man named dave who has a seven-year-old daughter named heather.
despite her screaming nightmares, constant lies and threats, and outbursts where she says she hates everybody and wants her own dead mother back, no one's working towards making this kid any better."You know perfectly well what Dave thinks of shrinks, Michael.
When I was eleven, one of my teachers read this book to the class.
I don't know what it was about WAIT TILL HELEN COMES, or if it was something the teacher said, but this was the book that somehow informed me that books don't magically appear on library shelves, as I'd previously believed.
Like, it's their job to make up stories.
And if I worked hard enough, it could be my job, too.It was also one of the first books I remember reading on my own where the magic was real -- where ghosts weren't explained away by wind or pale (but living) creatures.
Sigh...the good ghost stories that somehow passed me by as a kid...well, better late than never! This is a bone-chilling goodie, too. Everything I love in a ghost story: creepy little girls, hidden graves, faces in windows, crumbling ruins in the woods, even a dark and murky pond. Brrrrr!! A bit dated, but none-the-less, a gem of a read right before Halloween.
Told in the first person, we follow 12 year old Molly as she and the rest of her blended family move from Baltimore to some random place in the country.
Right away Hahn causes all my sympathies to lie towards Molly and her 10 year old brother Michael.
Things take a turn for the worse when it appears that Heather seems to be talking to someone named Helen and Heather keeps threatening Michael and Molly that when Helen comes she's going to make them pay.
We have a lot of tension being built in the story as Molly starts to realize what's going on and nobody believes her.
My aunt gave it to me years ago, as it was her favorite children's book.
Surprisingly dark for a middle grade book.As an adult, I was extremely bothered by how terrible and worthless every character except for Molly and Heather were.
He spent most of the book running off to collect bugs and leaving Molly to deal with Heather on her own when she's clearly EXTREMELY UPSET and totally needs his help.The overall plot of the Helen stuff was pretty interesting, for a middle grade, but I think the selfish/horrible family members really ruined the book for me.
Just as creepy as when I was a kid. The kind of book that reminds me of what I like about ghost stories. Nothing over the top, just perfectly atmospheric and haunting. In some ways it reminds me of my favorite Disney movie from childhood.
Read in one sitting. Really great middle-grade ghost story. I'd give this one a 3.5 star rating. Full review to come.
Read this one aloud to my students again.Nothing gets the blood chilling like ghost children. Shiver...
This book is a bit childish and the only reason why it holds my interest for an hour or two is because Heather annoys me. I want pinch her cheeks.
I haven't read this book since I was a little girl, but I'm giving it five stars simply because I slept with my light on for a week after reading it!
I loved this book!
It was really creepy!
I think all of you should read it!
......Michaeal & Molly have to move to an old church (now a house) with their mom and new stepfather.
Unfourtunatly Molly has to share a room with her new step sister, Heather!
She is really rude & creepy.
One day Heather wanders off to the graveyard behind the house.
Then one day Heather pushes Molly down a well......JK!
Lol, but you do need to read this book to find out the rest.....& NO!
No one falls or gets pushed down a well!
I remember reading this as a kid, but could not for the life of me remember what this book was called or who wrote it. It's haunted me (pardon the pun) for years trying to remember it until I randomly came across it in my feed tonight! This is why I love Goodreads so much!
A solidly executed middle grade horror novel. There's some really morbid stuff here that can be legitimately scary (I was scared of/fascinated with it as a kid) for young readers. And it's all built around a classic family dynamics story (step-siblings who don't like each other) that keeps it grounded. A fun one to come back to as an adult, but I would only give it to a kid who's ready for scares.
This was a *re-read* of one of my favorites as a kid. (One of my own kids is writing a book report on it, so I thought I'd pick it up to refresh my memory). I have to say, as an adult, I found a lot "wrong" with this book, but as a kid, it seemed perfectly natural for parents to say, "Go play" in a strange neighborhood, and not see their kids again until dinner time.... ;)Three stars, as an adult.
I love a ghost story.
I love a ghost story.
But a little part of me still believes in them when I'm all by myself in the house, and I'm reading a tale like this.
Maybe, just maybe, a little ghostie will reveal itself to me at times like that.
And that is probably why today I wish I was twelve again.
The story goes something like this.
Molly and Michael have a new little step-sister, Heather.
And Heather, a troubled child who is hiding a dark secret of her own, makes friends with a ghost.
It's a fun little story, especially for the younger set.
My sister's never been much of a reader, but she LOVED this book growing up. It was only ever okay for me, but I didn't remember much at all, so I decided to re-read it.Sadly it remains only okay for me, but WOW does Hahn ever get the UNFAIRNESS of being a kid right! Being blamed for stuff your sibling did, your parents not believing you!!! My blood boiled reading all those scenes!!!! IT WAS KRISTA, MOM AND DAD, NOT ME!!!!!!!!
A blended family moves to the country. The host of characters includes a mother with two children, a father with a bratty little girl and her ghost friend Helen.While the story was well crafted, I couldn't connect with it and cannot recommend it. It will go back to the library sale table tomorrow.
It the words of Charles Barkley- "turrible."
i think i still own a copy, actually...re-read: december 3rd, 2011:i forgot how much i hate heather in this book.
he's so self-centered (or, heather-centric, but only in so far as heather is his little girl who needs saving.
i get asking older siblings to help out, but to expect that they would raise heather while the parents do what they want is ludicrous.
if heather needs to be watched constantly, they should have hired someone, not just expected a couple of pre-teens who didn't want to move in the first place and who hate her to be her caregivers.
The genre of the book "Wait Till Helen comes" is a supernatural fiction .
Wait Till Helen Comes is about a twelve year old girl named Molly and her ten year old brother Micheal .
Heather visits the cemetery and starts talking to a ghost named Helen and they become best friends .
Heather and Helen start to cause trouble together and cause problems along the way .My analysis of this book is a young girl who has to deal with supernatural events .
Originally posted on NOT ENOUGH BOOKS, NOT ENOUGH TIME “Helen doesn’t like either one of you, and when she comes, you’ll be sorry for everything you ever did to me.” This book was a great start to my scary October reading. It had everything: a graveyard in the backyard, creepy children, death, possession, etc. The writing was amazing and vivid, I almost couldn’t believe that this was a middle grade read besides the length of the book and the main characters. This book had been recommended to me
The writing was amazing and vivid, I almost couldn’t believe that this was a middle grade read besides the length of the book and the main characters.
Also, with that ending it leaves the reader thinking that there’s more, which makes it even more haunting!I had an imaginary friend growing up, so thinking about one who could possess me and make me do thing so horrible that it was out of my control just gives me the heebie-jeebies.Would highly recommend this to middle schoolers with a strong spook tolerance and to adults looking for a quick read that will leave you haunted days after closing the book.
Title: Wait till Helen comes Author: Mary Downing Hahn Year: 2008 Pages: 184Intended Audience: anyone who loves ghost storiesMain Issue: A little girl brings up a ghost from the grave.Setting: The sitting at the old church just adds to the creepiness of the storyDescription: Molly - 12 years old, oldest child; Michael - 10 years old, loves the outdoors; Heather - 7 years old, has psychopathic problems.Summary: A family moved into the country in an old church with a graveyard in the backyard.
One day Molly catches Heather by a grave, that she was told not to go near, talking to something, but she didn't know what.
I am reviewing Wait Till Helen Comes: A Ghost Story by Mary Downing Hahn.
Add in the ghost of a child hellbent on finding a new playmate and you have a creepy read.I find myself intrigued by this author.
Yes, it read like a book written for children but it felt like more.
Hahn definitely has this grasp on the human mind and fear.I am giving this book the rating of four stars because it did feel rushed.
Hahn wanted to get as much story in there as possible which is tricky for a book of this length (192 pages).
She is definitely a true master of the ghost story.
Do you believe in ghosts?After this book your opinion will change.
I think "Wait Till Helen Comes" is a good book and will change you mind about ghost.
One day Heather goes down to the cemetery and meets a ghosts named Heather they become best friends they caused trouble to Molly and Micheal.
My analysis of this story is this girl Molly who has to do with her sisters and Helen's artifice.
Even if you don't believe in ghosts and don't like supernatural things you should still read this book.
It will give some chills of things that Helen does to Molly.
Molly and her brother have a stepsister Heather which they don't like. They move to the a church which has a graveyard in the back. Heather finds a grave and starts to talk to imagined friend Helen ... Or is she? Well Heather get killed by Helen? Why does Heather hate her new family? What secret is she keeping? Is Helen real?I really liked this book for the most part. The writing was great and the plot was pretty good for the most part. At first it's pretty boring but in the last quarter of it it got very good.
This book is amazing if you like thrillers this book is just that.
The book that I’m reading is Wait Till Helen Comes.IT is about a twelve year old girl named Molly an
A rediscovered favorite from childhood - I must have read this at least a half dozen times in elementary school, and I was completely captivated (and scared).
It's interesting to come back to this after so long - as a kid, I didn't understand/appreciate the absentee/unaware parent trope that makes this story possible, and I didn't question the ease with which things are tied up at the end.
For a young reader who wants to be scared (but not too scared), this still seems like a solid choice.
Including her brother Michael, her mother, stepsister Heather, and her stepfather.
Her mother gets married so they all move in the same home.
Molly and her brother have never got along with Heather because she always gets them in trouble by lying.
Heather finds the graveyard very interesting because one the graves has the same initials as her own.
Her step brother and sister don't believe her until strange events start to happen to Molly.
Helen starts to haunt on Molly for "being mean" to Heather.
I enjoyed reading this book because it was mysterious and many strange events happen.
I thought it was great book because there was a lot of tention exciment and thrilling scenes i would reccomend this book to a lot of people.
This book is about a family who move their children out of Baltimore for a better life.
They move into a church they had three children Heather is the adopted one, Molly, and Michael they didnt like the idea of moving out of Baltimore.
It was a pretty intence books with some really cool scenes i really liked it because i had never read a scary book in my life i would recommend it to other people and i liked it.
