https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1321776.Lennon_Remembers
He has a great bit about how the blues is a chair, not a design for a chair, not an idea of a chair, not a chair meant to be looked at, but a chair that is useful because you sit in it.[[Update: I found the quote, which I find to be very awesome: "It's not perverted or thought--it's not a concept.
The first few rows of their concerts were usually crippled children in wheelchairs or even baskets.-John and Yoko visited a spiritualist to learn about their past lives, but John wanted to know if this guy was so spiritual why was he so fat.-John thought his song "Mother" was a commercial recording.There are some great pictures in the book.
You might just feel like jumping out."~ Yoko Ono, from the ForewordI hardly ever read forewords, I want to get to the meat of the story and feel those numeral numbered pages get in the way.
I did not want to open my window and "jump out" as the foreword warned, but this was not the "sit-back-and-put-your-feet-up" Love me Do read I was expecting.
I think that is what Jann Wenner interviews did with John Lennon, it cleanses us of all we thought we knew, "It's a jolt on your nerves."Lennon Remembers is a very bittersweet read.
DON'T read this if you love the cheeky, Hard Day's Night vision of the Beatles.
It's an interesting snapshot of Lennon's mind on the day(s) he was being interviewed, and because he's so adamant in everything he says, you might come away feeling he really always hated the other Beatles and so on.
It's an interesting read, but don't get into it if you want your fuzzy Beatles feelings to stay intact.
There are plenty of other books and movies out there to show you the other sides of Lennon.
Yeowch! Caustic and biting, this is certainly not the Beatles America embraced in 1964. Reading Lennon’s harsh opinions of Paul McCartney can be wince inducing. Lots of self-aggrandizing as well, from both Yoko and John.Even so, I’ll take this bad-mouthing, ego-tripping Lennon interview over the middle aged-soft and squishy one present in All We Are Saying: The Last Major Interview with John Lennon and Yoko Ono. At least this one had his wry sense of humor intact, and had me laughing out loud on several occasions.
Lennon has been essentially sainted since he got shot. This book is great because it demonstrates what an arrogant asshole he could be. He talks all kinds of shit about Jagger, McCartney, and every other 60s British rock star. Worth a read for Beatles fans and Beatles haters.
Seems as though there was a lot that Winston O'Boogie didn't quite remember......and then there was Yoko.
I don't know how the current edition differs from that one, but I gather the current one is complete and that the one I read was a little more complete than editions published between then and the time of the current publication.These are interviews John Lennon and Yoko Ono gave together to Jann Wenner, the founder of ROLLING STONE, shortly after the Beatles broke up in 1970.
Paul McCartney seems to be the focus of all the rage John Lennon felt for the people who abandoned, mistreated and ignored him as he grew up.
review of: Lennon Remembers - Rolling Stone Interview by tENTATIVELY, a cONVENIENCE - February 6, 2008After decades of not much caring about The Beatles & John Lennon & whatnot, I recently made a movie called "Backwards Masking In Rocks" that references The Beatles & Lennon & Ono, etc..
In my movie, Lennon et al are The Crystals & backwards masking allegations are made against ROCKS in general (rather than rock music).
Now, opening this bk again for the 1st time in a long time, I open to a section that addresses the reputed hidden messages in Beatles' material: "Why do you think people start rumors, like that whole death thing would happen...
Que pessoa confusa que era o Lennon, não? Me parece que ele estava constantemente tentando chamar a atenção. Talvez tenha sido uma fase, como o livro da irmã dele dá a entender (cito porque li ao mesmo tempo), mas a imagem que se tem dele nessa entrevista não é das melhores.
Entrevue complètement décousue: Lennon qui ne se rappelle pas ses disques, le journaliste qui ne sait pas où il va et Yoko qui ajoute son grain de sel. Personne ne fait rien de bon sauf lui (Lennon), sauf Yoko et lui.
John Lennon is such a pretentious dick.
You'll learn plenty of interesting tidbits along the way, like:- John wanted to move to Haight-Ashbury in San Francisco, but it didn't pan out.
- He doesn't  have  to be around Yoko all the time, but "why wouldn't [he] want to be?
[They're] in love."- Groupies didn't exist when the Beatles were touring, but there's plenty of on tour debauchery "That hasn't been written about, because those guys have wives and I have Yoko.
It would hurt them."- John "Isn't your fucking parent."It's a quick read and an interesting portrait of an icon in flux.
It's almost hard to write about this interview/book by the fantastically talented musician who gets to tell his thoughts to the owner of Rolling Stone who always idolized Lennon.
I mean at the time he was a heroin addict and an alcoholic who is just raving about stuff that he says a few years later was full of lies...And in that is where this book gets so interesting.
It's hard to imagine a celebrity like Lennon being able to exist in 2018.
He makes Johnny Depp look like a choirboy going through life leaving wreckage behind him every step of the way, this book being a prime example.
A comprehensive account of Lennon's time with the Beatles and his solo years. The frank discussion, does a lot to demystify what he terms 'the myth' of the group. It soon becomes clear that while Yoko may have contributed to the group's breakup, the constant pressure from factors within and outside the band exposed the fractured nature of the group. Interestingly, he argues that the record company changed the group so much that he no longer recognised it and that Paul's desire to take over from Brian Epstein signalled the end.

An okay interview with an extraordinary, giant of a musician. A bit rushed at times, but some good insights here. 1/3 Beatles breakup, 1/3 Beatles, 1/3 Yoko and plastic ono. Those interested in the breakup...I recommend "You never give me your money". A really good look into the financial dissolution of the Beatles and all the players involved.
I've read pieces of these interviews over the years but never all of it at once. Lennon said a lot of things, sometimes contradicting himself, but is always mesmerizing. It was hard to put this down.
This interview, from 1970, was not supposed to be published as a book. Against John Lennon’s wishes it was and I am so grateful it was.In 1970, it was all still fresh and I loved hearing about it in his words. Knowing now what would happen in 1980 makes it all the more precious.
Two conclusions.1. Lennon needed a kick up the arse.2. Jann Wenner needed to learn the difference between ‘barmy’ and ‘balmy.’
John was flat-out pissed off when he gave this interview. Very insightful into what his state of mind was in late 1970.
These interviews offer an interesting perspective from John Lennon in 1970, still fresh from the break-up of The Beatles, in love with Yoko, immersed in political issues, etc. It's still worth checking out, even so many years later.
"God is a concept by which we measure our pain" Lennon Remembers is a non-fiction book base on Rolling Stone interviews of John Lennon from the 1970s.
John Lennon talks about how he doesn't believe in god , trying to say he doesn't believe in the Beatles.
John also says he was the one in the Beatles that took the most drugs.Taking this drugs made his music different in a good way.
I loved this book because of John Lennon's quotes like "i just believe in me and that's reality".
Lennon Remembers by Jann S.
I would recommend this book to people who like the Beatles.
During the time these interviews happened and for subsequent years, John made NYC his home.
They often appeared on local FM rock stations on Sunday nights to talk about music, Beatles and their current interests.
Yes in the book he is vitrolic about the other Beatles, but remember this was easily the biggest band to break up!
In just two years, Lennon would churn out topical political rock songs as was happening with Jamaican roots reggae and in the earlier folk protest movement.
So now, I've convinced myself to re-read the book!
I would recommend this book to any fan of The Beatles or Lennon.
This book shows a raw side of John that we don’t see in most interviews.
This book shows the reader how John felt about the major Beatle mile stones and it is extremely funny, interesting and real.
I would give this book a four out of five because it was truly interesting.
I would still probably enjoy this book just as much if I wasn’t a huge Beatles fan because the interview is just so real and it truly reveals all of every fan’s biggest questions.
A cursing and often abrasive Lennon gives his first-hand account of the Beatles from their formation until 1970, complete with his raps on art, philosophy, and the brutal business of rock 'n' roll.
The original book - an heavily edited transcript of 1970 interviews with Rolling Stone's Jann Wenner - paints a concise and frank portrait of how Lennon felt the Beatles had to sanitize their image and become "the biggest bastards on earth" to achieve their fame.
While the most recent edition contains the complete transcript of the Rolling Stone interviews, the original Straight Arrow/Popular Library edition with a large selection of photos makes a more powerful,concise statement.
A bunch of interviews with John Lennon, usually with Yoko Ono, in 1970.
It was right after John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band (and before Imagine).
And it was right after the Beatles breakup, so there was much discussion of that.
(And apparently everybody were assholes to Yoko, except for Ringo and his wife.)John talked about the musical influences on them, including Chuck Berry and Bob Dylan, and about other contemporary musicians.
John also talked about the influence of drugs in their music (and denied that Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds was about LSD, and that Happiness is a Warm Gun was about heroine).Fascinating book, definitely recommended.
Wanner a John Lennon, con la presenza di Yoko Ono. Più che un'intervista ragionata, studiata nei modi e nei tempi, sembra una discussione appassionata, pungente, irriverente.
Solo dopo poche pagine sembra di stare lì, allo stesso tavolo con il giornalista, con Yoko Ono, un po' defilata, e John Lennon, che si agita, ride, sentenzia, canticchia.
Le risposte sono istintive, travolgenti, senza filtro a tal punto che spesso John Lennon, nel bel mezzo di un concetto, si è ritrovato a chiedere: "ma qual era la domanda"?
Lo consiglio a tutti gli appassionati dei Beatles, di John Lennon, della storia della musica.
I was only 10 years old during the Summer of Love in 1968, so I can't say I was ever one of the screaming girl fans of the Beatles.
Nevertheless, I'd grown up with a fondness for the "Lovely Lads From Liverpool" and their music.
Having said that, these collected interviews were quite shocking to me when I read them in 1976.
Here is a frank and poignant look at what life was really like on the magical mystery tour.
Of course, the media wasn't as rabid and mean then as it is today, nor were fans.
This interview between Jann S Wenner, Yoko, and John is one of the most interesting thing I've ever read.
It was a great way to put time then into perspective of time now, it was a really cool way to turn back time as well.
I especially enjoyed hearing the stories that John and Yoko expressed deep enthusiasm for and in general I loved hearing Yoko's third party commentary, it made the whole thing very dimensional.
Every word that I read was incredibly intriguing and all in all a very interesting book, filled with not only entertainment but also education as well.
აუცილებლად წასაკითხი ლენონისტებისთვის. ლენონი თავის ამპლუაში, გულღია, პირდაპირი და ხანდახან მწარე ლენონი, რომელიც ბევრ რამეს იხსენებს ბითლზის და საკუთარი ცხოვრებიდან. ბითლზის დაშლა, იოკოსთან შეხვედრა. უთანხმოებები პოლთან ჯორჯთან, მაჰარაში და ინდოეთი, ჯონის დამოკიდებულება ბობ დილანთან, მიკ ჯაგერთან, ბითლზთან, პოლიტიკოსებთან და ა.შ. მოკლედ ბევრი რამეა, ლენონის, როკ ენ როლის და 60-იანი წლების მოყვარულებს მოგეწონებათ.
