https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36076501-the-girl-who-smiled-beads
This book focuses on the story of one family, about how two young girls ran from the murderers and endured horrible conditions in refugee camps.
The narrative alternates between her present as a teenager in an American school and moving from one refugee camp to another, from one country to another until the sisters are granted asylum along with Claire’s husband and child.
It’s easy to think how lucky they are, how lucky to be alive, giving not much thought perhaps to the trauma they have experienced, the displacement, the identity crises each one may experience, the loss of home and perhaps family.“The word genocide cannot tell you, cannot make you feel, the way I felt in Rwanda.
''Here's my story,'' I said. ''Use it now or later. When you need it, it'll be there for you. Maybe someday you'll be facing a challenge, and you'll think of my story. You'll think of Claire. You'll remember to put your ego in a bag and throw that bag away. You'll remember to be kind and generous and a better human.'' It’s hard to review this book, because this is not a book that was written to be reviewed.This written work, in itself, is a review. Clemantine is reflecting upon her past, presen
How does one review another person’s life?Normally, I have no problem discussing memoirs, and offering my thoughts on them, but I have not been through anything remotely similar to what Clemantine has been through.I have never lived through war.
I have no right to tell her she should have done this or that differently, or offer my opinion on the war that ravaged her life when I don’t know enough about it to do so.
Now, I don’t know if that’s because my History high school teachers were mainly men and white or maybe they weren’t allowed to use such strong and seemingly subjective terms, but I remember feeling very detached from and unconcerned about the concept of colonization.
Socks officially knocked off!Best book I’ve read this year, hands down, and it goes on my all-time favorites list.
I can’t stop thinking about, I can’t stop talking about it.One day Clementine is playing happily with her siblings in the yard of her comfy and loving home in Rwanda, the next day she and her 15-year-old sister Claire are running for their lives.
Although what she went through is way worse than depressing, her story of survival is uplifting.One of those fun woo-woo moments: I had just added Austerlitz to my To-Reads when I ran across Clementine talking about the book, which had a profound effect on her.
But inside she remains broken, trying in her words “to string all the beads in the right order, situate them in the right light – I can create a narrative of my life that looks beautiful to me and makes sense.”This book is her struggle to come to terms with all she endured: the separation from her parents at such a tender age, the loss of everything, the constant fear and hunger, the abysmal conditions in the refugee camps, and her struggle to integrate her experiences with her life in the U.S. I read an interview where she says her overriding mission is to share the idea that every single person on the planet has equal humanity.
"This---Rwanda, my life---is a different, specific, personal tragedy, just as each of those horrors was a different, specific tragedy, and inside all those tidily labeled boxes are 6 million, or 1.7 million or 100,000 lives destroyed.You cannot line up atrocities, like a matching set.You cannot bear witness with a single word."This was said in a response to people making the comparisons of Rwanda to the Holocaust, the killing fields of Cambodia or the ethnic cleansing in Bosnia.
We can't, we can't feel what it is like to live through something like this, to feel the disconnection between a new life and what one has suffered.
So hard to write a review on a memoir especially of one where a girl has survived a brutalGenocide in Rwanda.Even when she arrives in the U.S as a refugee, the years of trauma unravel even once she has landed in a war free zone.
The fears still remain- the difficulty trusting, the inability to forget, the fear of being abandoned.
For years Clementine and her sister travelled to 7 countries to escape the death.
Now this is her story of the aftermath of survival.
The darkness that continues to invade her spirit; her life.
“The word genocide cannot articulate the one-person experience—the real experience of each of the millions it purports to describe.
The chapters flipped back and forth between the American and African stories too quickly for a short book - it was a disruptive flow of taking in the past and present experiences.
It’s still a somewhat pet peeve of mine....the often new style of writing we see so often — POV— and flipping stories back and forth.
I’m trying to get use to it - as so many books today are written in this fashion.....but it’s never my favorite.5 stars for Clementine and the story that needed to be told.
The Girl Who Smiled Beads was a fitting complement to In the Shadow, and I experienced on a more visceral, individual level the pain, fear, sacrifice, and absolute terror experienced by Clemantine and her family.
This book is easy to read due to the exceptional writing, and I found it hard to put down; however, at times, I had to in order to absorb the abject torment suffered by Clemantine and her sister, Claire, from fleeing practically barefoot across multiple African countries to digging bugs out of the soles of their feet.
”Often, still, my own life story feels fragmented, like beads unstrung. Each time I scoop up my memories, the assortment is slightly different. I worry, at times, that I’ll always be lost inside.” Even at the tender age of four, Clementine was precocious, demanding the truth of things that the adults in her life felt were beyond her years.  ”Daily, maybe hourly, I begged Mukamana to tell me stories to help me make sense of the world, like that the gods shook out the ocean like a rug to make wav
”Daily, maybe hourly, I begged Mukamana to tell me stories to help me make sense of the world, like that the gods shook out the ocean like a rug to make waves.
And, yes, their life improves compared to what they endured, but they still struggle.This wanders back and forth in time, which may make it more difficult to follow, but I appreciated this – I couldn’t imagine reading the story of their time when they were running, fearing for their lives without some respite, a glimpse of their future.
The book covers two periods, one as Clementine and Claire struggle to survive in Africa and the other in the United States that takes us from their arrival to the present day.As they flee Rwanda and live in refugee camps in Burundi, every day is monotonous and is filled with “bugs, filth, hunger and death.” When they say bugs they mean infestations of lice and bugs that burrow into your feet, that need to be dug out.
“Often, still, my own life story feels fragmented, like beads unstrung.
5 Astounding Stars.The Girl Who Smiled Beads is the story of tragedy, war, violence and ultimately of survival.
Six year old Clemantine Wamariya was torn from her home along with her older sister Claire, when the War broke out in Rwanda.
It is hard to imagine that anyone could ever survive anything like this and live to tell the tale and triumph, and yet Clemantine and her sister Claire have done exactly that.
I am in bewildered awe of Clemantine Wamariya and her sister Claire.
Thank you for sharing your story Clemantine!
The Girl Who Smiled Beads tells the extraordinary story of Clementine Wamariya.
At the time, Clementine was 12 years old.
Wamariya, now a young woman, tells her own story, moving back and forth between her childhood and her early years in the US.
Giving and receiving create a complicated power dynamic, and Wamariya personalizes its effects.
There’s also a lot of food for thought at this particular time in history.I listened to the audio, which works very well.
Wamariya is not the narrator, except for the very last section.
Her voice and cadence give a lot of dimension to her story and personality.
An interesting story that gives the readers a young girls views and thoughts on her experiences of War and Genocide and what it means to try to rebuild a life again and the feeling of never belonging.Firstly I listened to this one on audio and while the narrator was adequate the book was difficult to follow and this was due to the structure of the novel, The story is told in two time frames and while I normally enjoy this style of writing, there seemed to be way too much toing and froing and just when I felt I was connecting with the characters and their story, the time frame switched way too quickly and the connection was lost again.Clementine's experiences as a child fleeing the civil war in Rwanda are harrowing and terrifying and yet I should have felt much more emotion than I did from this story and again perhaps this is down to the audio version.
Books like this resonate once again how powerful the written word can be and how a raw and deeply moving narrative can reach not only our hearts, but leave imprints on our soul.
The word genocide cannot tell you, cannot make you feel, the way I felt in Rwanda.
I have read many memoirs, but this one stands our for me the most because of its powerful attention to not shy away from the fact that for those of us in the West , we have not a !@$%& clue what it really feels like for Clemantine.
The powerful prey on the week and the cycle continues as each level preys on the level considered to be weaker than they.The book is a portrayal of life on the run, a portrayal for struggling through a minute, an hour, a day when you have nothing, not food, not water, and not the love and care of a parent to guide and protect you.
However, this was a story that could rip out your heart and make you pause as you look to your life and all his fortunate moments that made you happy, all those people who cared for you, so happy to be alive and treasured even if it be by only one person.
Go to Book Nation by Jen to see the video on my blog post.The visceral joy we see in the video is the joy of a six year old girl being returned to her parents, yet the relationships of the family members had become much more complex due to everyone’s traumatic experiences of the past 12 years.The Girl Who Smiled Beads is Clemantine’s personal story; a six year old’s journey in war torn Africa, and coming of age as a teenager in the United States living with the demons of the past while searching for self worth and purpose in a country with unlimited opportunities and excess.
Clemantine Wamariya was six years old when her life changed forever.
In 1994, she and her fifteen-year-old sister, Claire, were forced to leave their family behind and flee their home country as the Rwanda massacre raged on.
The book is raw and honest and incredibly manages to be tragic and uplifting at the same time.
The courage of both Clemantine and Claire is amazing as they constantly were facing life and death situations.
I was under no obligation to post a review and all views expressed are my honest opinion.
I really appreciated how open and honest the story was written and I could feel Clementine's anger and bitterness as she tried to escape her past never looking for sympathy but just wanting to find her place and feel and be treated like a human after witnessing such inhuman cruelty and conditions.
I highly recommend this very emotionally and honest story of two sisters struggling to find their way through such horrible conditions from refugee camp to another and finally come to be reunited with their parents.Thank you to NetGalley and Crown Publishing for a copy to read and review
In 1994 Clemantine, six years old, and her sister Claire of fifteen, began a six-year long trek without parents moving from camp to camp--living in Rwanda, Burundi, Zaire (present day Democratic Republic of Congo) Tanzania, Zambia, Malawi and South Africa before they were finally given asylum in America.
The experiences in Africa were horrendous, but the assimilation process in America and learning how to live with such a past were extremely difficult too.
You can read facts in a history book, but here we see how it is to live and experience them.
The author has extremely well captured life in the community and at the high school.
Wamariya comes through her ordeal and ends up a Yale graduate with a successful speaking career, but carries permanent psychological scars and struggles with making sense of all that has happened to her.....puzzling out "who" and "how" she should be.There's something about the way the book is written that blunted its emotional impact for me.
I don't think that the alternating chapters of "Clemantine, the traumatized child in Africa" and "Clemantine, the young teenager/adult in America" helped the narrative flow or helped to build an emotional bond with Wamariya.
I hope she can find some way of coming to terms with her past that will allow her heart, mind and family to heal.
Its about losing your family, your culture, your country and your identity at the age of 6 and how this had a ripple effect in Clemantine’s life for many years to come.Before reading this, I watched the video insert where Clemantine and her sister Claire was reunited with their family on the Opera show.
The experience of a mother forever wailing on her knees”The story also shows how dehumanizing it is to be labelled, and live as, a refugeeI found so much of the book insightful, the experiences the sisters had in different African countries, the shock of coming to America, the land of noise and plenty and the way each dealt with their trauma.Their mother held on to her faith and lived every day in gratitude for the smallest things.

I'd recommend this book in a heart beat.
When I was offered an opportunity to receive an advance copy of this book I jumped at the chance to get to go deeper into Clemantine's story and I think this book is a must read.
It's a hard, raw read and one that is super important for all of us as human beings.
It's a complex story of her escape from the Rwandan massage as a child and eventual arrival in the United States as a refuge.
It is also so much more than that story - she intimately shares the impact of that entire experience on the way she thinks about herself, the way she views the world, and the ways she has attempted to own her own story.
Having so recently read Jennifer Haupt's novel In the Shadow of 10,000 Hills, I went in search of real-life survivor accounts of the 1994 Rwandan genocide and immediately landed on Clemantine Wamariya's extraordinary story.
It moves from the fable-like impressions of a little girl leaving behind the idyll of a life in Kigali before the terror to an endless march through a forest, not understanding the bodies she sees floating in the river are not sleeping, to the more concrete details of a young woman carrying for Claire's babies in city slums, while her sister seeks the means to provide for her family and escape the hand of an abusive husband.
A reminder that every refugee is a unique individual and wants to be seen and treated as such.I admire people who can share their lives while allowing us to see their insecurities, vulnerabilities and doubts about themselves and their relationships.
Thinking of all the millions of children who has never had a childhood, safety, care or the opportunity to just be seen as a unique human being, and the effect this will have on them as an adult, is deeply distressing.This is a deeply personal account of a young girl who is trying to make peace with all she has lost and can never regain, trying to braid her different lives into one narrative.
**I received this book in a Goodreads First Reads giveaway.**This book is amazing. I can't even imagine going through what this young woman has gone through. (Side note: I had a lot of really smart and eloquent things in my head to say about this book when I finished reading it last night, but I fell asleep, and they went away. I'll edit if I remember.)
The title of the book is based on a story that Clementine's nanny, Mukamana, would tell her.
It was about a beautiful, magical girl who roamed the earth, smiling beads, and it was her favorite story.
Clementine read many she could relate to: Night by Ellie Weisel, Sula by Toni Morrison, Infidel by Ayana Hirsi Ali, The Natural History of Destruction and Austerlitz by W.G. Sebald.
So many times as we read a book we can relate to the characters or the situation and feel a little bit better about ourselves and life.
The descriptions of Claire's and Clementine's living conditions are beyond my ability to comprehend or even imagine.
(A Rwandan refugee camp in east Zaire.) "The place that is supposed to want you has pushed you out.
No other place takes you in.
You are unwanted, by everyone.
You are a refugee." Try as I might, I cannot imagine what it feels like to be a refugee.
To have to flee your homeland, the place you grew up, the only place you've ever known.
To be without a home or country for years.
To live in a refugee camp.
To not know if your family is alive or dead.
To not know if and when danger will find you.
For 6 long years, they travelled through 7 African countries, often living in absolutely dismal conditions in refugee camps where they would wait for hours each day to get a handful of maize to eat and a small amount of water to drink, sometimes sleeping on cots in tents, at other times curling up on the ground at night where ever they could find an empty spot.
We need to let go of the fear and hatred of immigrants and refugees; we need to understand that no one would leave the only home they've ever known and travel to another country, often putting themselves in very dangerous situations, unless they have to do it.
In truth, it’s the story of Wamariya, her sister Claire, and a variety of other family members.
But it’s told by Wamariya, who was displaced from her home by conflict at just six years old.If you have a six or seven-year old in your life, like I do, think about them being alone with just an older sibling.
This is what happened to Clemantine and Claire.
Even when she tells about harrowing emotional experiences, Clemantine seems comfortable with her inner landscape.
It wasn’t always that way, and she tells about that journey as well.
It’s amazing to be invited inside her story.Full review available at TheBibliophage.com.
