https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302176.Red_as_Blood_or_Tales_from_the_Sisters_Grimmer
A vampiric princess and the seven stunted horrors that follow her; her enemy, a kind and brave Witch Queen and her ally Lucifiel (also known as Satan, the brother of the Son of God).
The passage of so much time becomes a barrier all of its own between princess and prince, a barrier more insurmountable than a wall of thorns.
It felt like a pale reflection of "Red As Blood".
My favorite story of the collection, after the re-read.
My favorite story of the collection, after the re-read.
My second favorite story, after the re-read.
The common thread binding the nine stories (five previously published in various magazines) of this collection is that they're all re-imagined fairy tales, and all of them are of high literary quality; but otherwise they exhibit a wide variety.
In most of the stories, though, the supernatural element is clear, and the setting is vague and removed enough from real-world reference points to make in effect a fantasy world.Several stories have religious elements, borrowed from various religions; these should be viewed as literary conceits Lee uses without literally endorsing any of the religions --including Christianity, though "Red as Blood" has very real Christian symbolism.
LMAO, I really liked all of these. It should probably be renamed "Princesses Behaving Badly by Dabbling in the Dark Arts and Worshiping Satan".
Just like in Silver Metal Lover Lee writes a pretty annoying protagonist that you really just want to shake your head at, but that works well in how the story is structured.
Grandmère Anna's tale is filled with poison and caution:"I tell you, Lisel, because very soon your father will suggest to you that it is time you were wed.
Grandmère Anna telling Lisel of how she finally worked up the strength to save Lisel's mother and then finally, herself, is gruesome and extremely disturbing."Beat me," she said.
I didn't like the ending much, though I do admit it fit the story.RED AS BLOOD5 stars.This story, which retells "Snow White," was by far the most shocking (and the most imaginative) of them all.
I found the witch here a bit more sympathetic than the golden-haired girl, which is also looking like a Tanith Lee characteristic, because this isn't the first nor the last story where the "bad" character ends up being either more interesting, smarter or more sympathetic than the "good" one.THE PRINCESS AND HER FUTURE2 stars.It looked like it could be a retelling of "The Frog Prince," judging from the elements in common with the original folktale.
At the head of the stem there blossomed a rose slender as a tulip, its petals a pale and singing green. There were no thorns, or rather only one and that metaphysical, if quite unbearably penetrating. I adored Tanith Lee's Biting the Sun, and I'm always a fan of fairytale retellings, so I randomly picked this one up from the library. It's mingled fantasy/science fiction, with versions of the familiar stories that are ever so slightly askew, or play around with perspective so that the heroes are
Part of the delight was wading partway through a story and trying to guess/figure out which fairytale it is.My favourites were:• "Red As Blood": Snow White turned on its head, and very reminiscent of Neil Gaiman's marvelously disturbing "Snow, Glass, Apples".• "Wolfland": My absolute fave, because combine Red Riding Hood with werewolves & empowered women & an aloof, powerful beldame of a grandmother & a Gothic manor, and I am so here for this.• "Beauty": In which the Beast is an alien.
Also, as a weird extra to ensure a happy ending, Jesus Christ plays Prince Charming and does the Superman turn-the-clock back trick.Thorns- retelling of Sleeping BeautyIt tells the Sleeping Beauty tale in a somewhat straightforward manner from the prince’s POV – and then keeps going to point out just how horrific the curse really was, and even if it was broken, it still has lasting effects on those who were under it.
A good story on its own, but I didn’t think much of it as a fairy tale retelling.
In this story, Tanith Lee created a very vivid and eerie depiction of the tale with the Evil Queen as the center of it all.
Snow White here is named Bianca, a princess with a very mysterious and dark disposition who hates to go out of the castle before dusk, with skin as white as snow and lips as red as blood.
Red As Blood also reminded me of Neil Gaiman’s own version of Snow White entitled Snow, Glass, Apples, in which the Queen is not really the evil one and that Snow White is also not what she seemed to be.
Anyway, I like both of the stories.
For the last couple of years I have been focusing on including more short fiction in my reading routine.
Likewise, I have been trying to go back to reading more fantasy and science fiction, two genres I devoured in my teens and early twenties but have gotten away from in recent years.
Red as Blood by Tanith Lee fits both categories as it's a collection of retold fairy tales, each one with a dark twist.The stories are based on the Grimm brothers' tales but given a feminist focus.
So many of the female characters are doing evil deeds that the positives of giving the old stories a feminist spin are undone.
I think I've read some of them in the distant past and possibly even this collection.
The impetus to read this came from a list posted by author Kate Elliott, consensus seems to be it was a mixed bag.
I think for a first Lee read, I would recommend The Gorgon and Other Beastly Tales.There's one thing I hate about GoodReads: finding out that an author I like has passed on, which is the case with Tanith Lee. I'm happier thinking they are working on their next book or restoring an old mansion or otherwise enjoying life.
Tanith Lee writes wonderfully lyrical horror stories that sound like fairy tales, so it's only appropriate that she should rewrite some of the old standard.
This book contains When the Clock Strikes, a retelling of Cinderella which is worth the price of admission alone, and  The Princess and her Future , a heartwarming tale about a princess who marries a handsome prince who promises that "...I will love you for the rest of your life." He keeps his word.
While Tanith Lee's novels can be a little bit of a let down, her short stories are beautiful, horrific, and not to be missed.
Definitely a must read.
A wonderful classic of dark fantasy; every short story in this collection is a small jewel. Comparable in quality and prose to Angela Carter's The Bloody Chamber of which I'm confident Lee was heavily indebted to.
This was a wonderful book.
I am generally *not* a fan of short stories.
I like stories that with lots of character development and there isn't time for that in short stories.
Maybe this collection was improved by already "knowing" the stories, but I don't think that's the only reason.
They were definitely not for kids and one or two were rather disturbing, but riveting all the same.
I would only say that one had any real innuendo, but the themes were adult (or, at least, young adult).I read a collection of retellings by Robin McKinley,  The Door in the Hedge that was okay, but I didn't particularly love.
Absolutely lovely.
I do wonder what Black as Ink is supposed to be, though.
Wikipedia says The White Duck, which is ridiculous.
It has not even a nodding acquaintance with The White Duck.
With the swans I'd think it was The Swan Princess, but bits of it made me think of Giselle...
though Giselle isn't well-known enough for that kind of thing, generally.
For that matter, neither is The White Duck.
The Swan Princess makes the most sense, in the context of how well-known the stories in the book are.
It really is a wonderful book.
Love.
Love.
Godliness is next to more Godliness, apparently.
This collection of fairy tale re-imaginings could have been good--a lot of her ideas are excellent and I'd love to see them in the hands of a better writer--but I only got through about half the stories in this collection.
And of those six or so, five were varying degrees of allegory, usually of the "wicked person worships SATAN and GOD won't save you then." A little too much in the Christian tradition for me, particularly when the stories were set in distinctly non-Christian eras/places.
Any more ham-handed and it would need mittens of bread and mustard.
Didn't really enjoy this as a whole, but then, I am usually apathetic about short stories. Most of these were too long without being satisfactory, and most never seemed to reach any sort of point. The last one was good though and I actually kind of wish it had been longer.Oh, and I don't know why Lee even bothered noting the setting of each story, since any of them could have been set anywhere. Like, why did the characters use French in the Scandinavian stories? Am I missing something?
In sort of the reverse of how fairy tales have gradually gone from Grimm to sanitized, Tanith Lee has taken 9 classic fairy tales and turned them dark. Overall, it's an intriguing idea. However, the repeated Satan-worship theme got really old. There was only one story I really enjoyed -- the last one, "Beauty." Perhaps not coincidentally, it is the only one that is SF rather than fantasy.
This certainly lives up to its reputation!(But the cover is horrid - especially compared to the older covers.)
Retellings of classic fairytales. Lots of inversions of good and evil, twisted religious/mythological allegories, poetic imagery, and deliciously ambiguous gorgeousness. A re-read for me.
3.5 stars - good I read this book on June 24, 2017, and reviewed each story after I finished them.
But now that I'm done, I have a few thoughts I can share about the book as a whole.
. .I am giving this book a three-and-a-half star - good - rating mostly thanks to three stories.
Paid Piper, Beauty, and The Waters of Sorrow were by far the best for me in this collection.
Paid Piper was the first story; the other two were, in the order listed, the last two stories in the book.
All seven of the in
:-/Thorns, 3.5 stars - goodThis retelling of Sleeping Beauty lost me in the end.
:-(When the Clock Strikes, 2 stars - okayThis Cinderella story was very chilling, until (view spoiler)[the prince learned about Ashella, ran to her house, and was killed along the way.
(hide spoiler)] (!!!) So that kind of put paid to the story.And I did not understand the point to it.
. .) :-(The Golden Rope, 3.5 stars - goodThis story, a Rapunzel retelling (I think), was interesting, but once again it lost me in the end.
(hide spoiler)] That didn't make much sense to me.Beauty, 4 stars - very good; really likedThis was a rather fun story.
I thoroughly enjoyed some tales and others not so much. My favorite tale in this collection is "Wolfland", and some others I enjoyed were "When the clock strikes", "The Princess and Her Future", and "Beauty". Tanith Lee writes in a most evocative way but some stories were a bit too heavy handed with metaphor and lacked in subtlety.
Reading Tanith Lee is like walking into a deserted but gorgeous park when the sun's going.
Beauty and the Beast/BeautyI really admired how how Lee used chronology in setting these stories.
The Paid Piper is set in pagan times, Red as Blood during early Christianity, the stories in the middle from the seventeenth through twentieth centuries, and Beauty in the future.
The Paid Piper- this makes you wonder...What if god is vulnerable?
Set in pagan times, the story is about Cleci, a fourteen-year-old girl who's trying to keep her sense of passion and romance living among tired, bored villagers whose concerns are money, money, money.
Fantastic collection of short stories retelling 9 "classic" fairy tales.
Reordered by chronological setting rather than publication date, I found the stories getting better as I went along.
Beauty was my favourite, a hauntingly sad retelling of Beauty and the Beast in a mild sci-fi setting, followed by Wolfland, a much better interpretation of Little Red Riding Hood involving werewolves and women with agency.
Also surprising was the reworking of the Christian / pagan elements compared to the Grimm stories.
Overall, I very much enjoyed the stories, wish there were more of them
The last thing I read by Tanith Lee was an Arthurian short story in a Merlin story collection, and h
An addiction you say? Yes, I may have an addiction to Tanith Lee’s short stories. Especially since I started this one before I’d finished Dreams of Dark and Light, so it was all Tanith Lee, all the time. This collection of stories is based partly on fairy tales that we know and love, with new stories mixed in, all with Lee’s twist of the dark and the macabre.
Twisted retellings of well known fairy tales. I loved them all to the point that I hunted the used bookstore until I found a hardcover edition I could call my very own.Many of these short stories left me wishing they had been full blown novels in their own right.
Twisted fairy tales, like what if the stepmother in Snow White was really the good one. Artfully crafted and beautifully embroidered, but truly macabre. I had to wait till my son was a tween to let him read these fairy tales.
basically a pulp bloody chamber without the bloody chamber itself—in that none of the stories has that single standout gem quality and if you read the whole thing in a day it tends to blur together. (and with more literal satan and jesus cameos. also aliens.)
A little dark for my tastes, but some very interesting ideas in there. I especially liked "Wolfland".
Strangest, yet most INTRIGUING short story collection I've ever read!
