https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36253.The_Winthrop_Woman
Just can't quite push my rating up to 4.While I loved Katherine which is supposed to be Seton's best work, I am starting to think that in most of her books, Seton lacks the ability to make me care about her characters.
There Elizabeth shows some normal human frailties & Seton having her in love with (view spoiler)[her cousin Jack?
Made me think - a lot-of Angelique & Forever Amber with ill fated first loves.
(hide spoiler)]For a lot of the book Elizabeth was just too perfect for me where in real life she must have been a truly remarkable, flawed & strong willed woman who defied a lot of conventions.
What an incredible story of an amazing woman.
Elizabeth was a rare woman indeed, going on to being one of the few women of her times to be a large landholder, married three times and finally finding great happiness and love in the last one to Will Hallet.
The author beautifully weaves her story so that you feel you are there, from terrors of sailing the Atlantic, small pox, the sights, sounds and smells of the times, everything is perfectly melded to entertain and educate you about this period.
Finally, I have chugged through Winthrop Woman.
It is Laura Ingalls Wilder’s The Little House Collection, but for adults.
I did like these books, but then I was a kid!
Indians and witches and cute, super sweet romance, romance and more romance.
Yes, the history is there, and it is all accurate, but it is too cute, too predictable, too romantic, and too moralistic.
The writing is accurate, but not beautiful and not intriguing.
Maybe to really love this book one has to have deep religious faith.
I envy those who possess that.I am not saying this book is bad.
This is the story of Elizabeth Fones with a historical background of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.Elizabeth was a nice of John Winthrop and she marries Harry Winthrop, her first cousin.When the Winthrop family decides to move the New World, they become founding members of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, situated around the present-day cities of Salem and Boston.The population of this colony was governed by the Puritanism and John Winthrop is elected as the Governor of this colony.According to Wiki , “the word "puritan" is often used to describe someone who adheres to strict moral or religious principles.” In this context, John Winthrop and the other main leaders of emigration to New England in 1629 were non-separating Puritans.
Even now, by noon, I am enchanted.On the cover of my copy is written:"Perhaps the greatest gifts Anya Seton brings to her historical novels are the zest of her narrative, the life she breathes into the most insignificant characters, and the atmosphere of the era she evokes around them."I couldn't agree more.Seton was a great story teller and she made wide and deep historical research for her books.
Thus her stories are more truthful, more real because she wrote them as she would have lived in those times.What could I add?
Elizabeth is not a perfect fit for Puritan New England, but thanks to several lucky marriages and husbands who all seem to conveniently die at the right moment, she ends up a woman of substance .
Elizabeth, who is on her second or third husband already and has a very hearty appetite, can't wait for the fast day to be over.
Even though she wants to hide the chicken leg behind her back, she ends up confessing to her crime and making the governor laugh in spite of himself .
It's that kind of book, Elizabeth breaks all the rules and men either indulge her or look the other way.
As much as the book is about one woman's life, it is also about the beginnings of a country's life.
They left England in search of religious freedom was pretty much all I remember: turns out the Puritans were just as intolerant and judgmental as the people they ran away from, and Elizabeth paid dearly for being an intelligent woman who dared to think for herself and tried to follow her own higher standards.
Overall the book left me sadly wondering: How did America manage to get past all of that Puritanical blindness....or did the country ever really leave it behind?
Elizabeth married her cousin Henry, one of John Winthrop's many sons, although she was really in love with John Jr. All of these characters actually existed and I saw that the plots of romance novels are truly drawn from real life.
Strong willed women were not in demand in those Puritan times but sturdiness was a requirement for the first settlers in New England.
The Puritan ministers and leaders felt threatened by her views about faith and one's personal relation with God, envisioning their control over women slipping away.
Strong-willed in a time when women were only expected to be obedient, she was often in opposition to the men in power.
All of the characters in this were real people.
It is also set in a time period with which I am somewhat familiar.
I think the Pilgrims of the Winthrop fleet did not imagine the raging wilderness they set out to tame.
But the path to true love is sometimes a crooked one, and this story was more than just the title character.
Eventually, I came to appreciate that I was being given more than just a love story, though a very good one.
I loved this book.
I did the audio and the narrator did an amazing job.
The different accents were nicely done.
The audio was long....27 hours, but not once did I do the page math.
This rolled along at an even pace.
I was pulled in from the beginning.
This book covers the life of a woman, Elizabeth (Bess) Winthrop.
She was a Puritan and left England with her family to strike out a new beginning in the Colonies of America in the 1600's.
The historical fiction was nicely done.
The research was woven into the story where it didn't feel like info overload.
The story of Elizabeth Winthrop from her early beginnings through to her later life. A well written historical saga and rich in historical detail of the times depicted. I couldn't say that this is the best book I've ever read by Anya Seton but it was still an enjoyable and easy read.

If only there were more authors like Seton who felt this way about the subjects and people they tackle when they write historical fiction (ehem, Philippa Gregory).
Speaking of Gregory, I knew I was in even better hands when I completely disagreed with parts of her forward to the book: "As a crafted novel rather then a linear historical narrative, perhaps the only thing that can be said against The Winthrop Woman is that in its honoring of the recorded history the novel seems to lose shape.
That's life, and I prefer it to the dribble that Gregory writes (Lord save us from her upcoming Plantagenet books)!
What a wonderful book!
So well written and so engaging, I loved it.I don't know why books like these aren't assigned to High Schoolers.
It brought early American history alive in a way that textbooks never did for me.
Seton's research is impeccable, and this book was more fact than fiction - but was interesting!The main character, Elizabeth Fones, is one that I think almost any woman would be able to identify with.
I loved this book.
I sure enjoyed my second reading of this book which was fascinating to me and I would give it 6 stars if I could. I especially enjoyed the ending which was a big surprise for me. I recommend it for everyone.I have enjoyed all her books but one did give me screaming nightmares and it was Green Darkness!I dare not read it again but I have also read Katherine twice.
I've learned so much from this book....I knew the basics about the settlers who left their English r
The Winthrop family is pictured with some of them living on an estate and the poorer cousins including the tale's heroine who visits now and then.
Visiting in the early 1600's was a rough deal for her patriarch is extremely religiously repressive person.
About 200 people relocate to the Massachusetts Bay Colony (Boston area) with John Winthrop (who later becomes the colony Governor) to begin new lives.
Their view of their new life is one of living in religious freedom.
Our poor heroine, Elizabeth, never believes that religious freedom has come to her.
Our culture seems determined to forget our beginnings as a strongly repressive place.
The Winthrop Woman is an epic piece of historical fiction. Elizabeth Winthrop was an absolutely remarkable, courageous (and stubborn!) woman in a world dominated by men. Few writers are so well reasearched as Anya Seton. The characters were so real and I loved the way the book ended with a feeling of hope and resolution. This is one of the best historical works of fiction I've ever read.
Better than I expected - I thought it would be dry and a slog to read. It features an appealing and likeable main character, an engrossing story, and a fascinating peek into history, but has too many romance novel overtones for my taste. My favorite parts were descriptions of everyday life and activities. A fast read despite its bloated length.
This is historical fiction at its best. Anya Seton's research uncovers a remarkable woman who was one of America's first colonists.
But as is often the case with Anya Seton's novels - I either really like them or don't like them at all.
The Indians are all "noble savages" and too good to be true,which (historically speaking) was sometimes the case and sometimes not.
But no, they're Puritans, so they have to be the bad guys.
After reading about 3/4 of "The Winthrop Woman" and Ms Seton's moralizing, I gave up.
Historical novels need a certain amount of imagination and speculation,but is it really necessary to always twist history around to suit contemporary attitudes ?
This is one of my favorite authors. This book is quite a journey for Elizabeth Winthrop. This story shows the early days of Boston, Massachusetts Bay Colony, and the surrounding areas of the Dutch settlements. Seton knows her early American history and the details are incredible. Her writing just captures you in and it keeps your interest through out the book. The last half of the book was just one thing after another happening! A must read for Anya Seton fans and for a good historical story of the new world.
I read this book many years ago, probably when I was in my early twenties. This time I listened to an audio version and was astonished to find that I had remembered almost nothing! A good but much fictionalized story of a real woman. I loved it.
Puritans, squaws, apothecaries, goodwives, erstwhile 'maidenhood abandoned' and 'importunate virility dwindled,' this one is for committed fans of historical romances. Beautiful and tempestuous Elizabeth Winthrop faces many travails as she leaves London and settles in the New World. You may find it sweeping and rich, or over-long and tedious. Pick one.
Seton gives a fascinating view of early life in the Colonies, from Indian raids to learning how to farm and to make do with what America natively offered to the settlers.
For myself, I enjoyed learning where various place-names in New England had come from, being a resident of Rhode Island for several years.
Anne Hutchinson, a woman who believed that God is Grace, not a wrathful, vengeful God as the Puritans painted Him, comes into the story in Elizabeth's early years in the colony -- and I remembered that Rhode Island is in the process of renaming the bridge over the Sakonnet River after her.
I read most of Anya Seton's books in highschool or college, not this one, but all that were at the library, and i didn't even realize they were so old.
most of what we learned about the first settlers started after they came here to america but this one begins in england, and it taught me a lot of what i didn't learn in school.
Seton spent a ton of effort researching this and getting things right, and these people were always writing back and forth, they wrote as much as people do now!!
It has been a long time since I have enjoyed s book this much.
It ranks up there with one of the best books I have ever read.
I get stuck in one genre and when I step out I find great reads.
Elizabeth or Bess as she is called is such s brave, strong, woman.
I felt like I was living in this time with her it was so well written.
I will say it was a love drama that reminded me of Gone With The Wind but Bess is not like Scarlett in any way.
One of my top 10 reads for sure
It's so nice to see Seton's classic titles published in such excellent audio editions.
Seton's well-researched historical novels are an excellent choice for anyone, like me, who knows a bit of history.
She immerses readers/listeners in the characters and their stories: here, the rebellious Elizabeth Winthrop, niece of founding father John, governor of Mass.
Lots of info about real people, including Roger Williams and Anne Hutchinson; many familiar names placed in context and given a chance to tell their own stories.
English, Dutch, and Indians--everyone gets space and their stories heard.
Lots about politics, and religion, and power.
Absolutely riveting story of the early settlers of the Massachusetts Bay Colony and of Elizabeth Fones/Winthrop/Feakes/Hallett in particular.
Elizabeth was part of the prestigious Puritan Winthrop family that was a driving force behind the founding of the colony.
Her personality however was too spirited and vivacious to conform to the strict Puritan ideals and she was constantly at odds with the patriarch of the family, Governor Winthrop.
Seton recreated Elizabeth's world in such vivid detail that I was swept away in her emotional turmoil as she struggles to stay true to herself and find happiness despite the Puritan opposition.
The book follows Elizabeth Winthrop, a courageous Puritan woman who finds herself at odds with her heritage and surroundings.
A real historical figure, Elizabeth married into the family of Governor John Winthrop of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
In those times of hardship, famine, and Indian attacks, many believed that the only way to prosper was through the strong, bigoted, and theocratic government that John Winthrop favored.
Defying the government and her family, Elizabeth befriends famous heretic Anne Hutchinson, challenges an army captain, and dares to love as her heart commanded.
