https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/496758.Broad_and_Alien_is_the_World
La misma reseña en español e inglés.Same review spanish and english.Esta novela es fantástica!!
MARAVILLOSO!!This novel is fantastic!!
it´s not just the well tell and work story of the indigenous reality in latinamerica, but also of the firm and true caracter of human beings that fight for peace and justice, all of that wihtout leaving the marvel of literature and of the interlaced stories, of every litlle detail, that in the end at the maximum conclusion we manage to understand completely and it tears our souls apart!!!MARVELOUS!!
Excelente novela que muestra la historia oculta de los campesinos peruanos y su lucha por sobrevivir. La leí en el colegio y se me quedó grabado que hay dos Perús, uno oficial, el de la historia, y otro que no hubieramos visto si no fuera por novelas como ésta.
It’s a painful story, as it charts the defeats and sufferings of the community; it can’t end very well, but one positive development is the people’s increasing awareness of their real situation and understanding of the way things work in their country; they’re hardly better able to resist the overwhelming force ranged against them than before, but it’s better not to have to struggle blindly.The novel is distinguished by passages of wonderful lyricism as Ciro Alegría celebrates agriculture and the love of the land.
Good portrayal of a community of Peruvian Indians set in the first few decades of the twentieth century.
However, the wealthy non-indigenous landowners use the law and violence to steal their ancestral community lands, and to force the Indians to work for them.
Very good portrayal of the Indian way of life with insight into how the Indians think.
Some parts of the novel are almost lyrical in the description of how the Indians live and think.
A surprisingly realistic portrait of the (ever-present) social struggles in the midst of the Peruvian sierra.
Gran historia de la opresión de los campesinos.
un panorama muy ancho de la vida cotidiana y las penas de los indios del Peru
Esta obra muestra en todas sus facetas la explotación de unas gentes que tienen más derecho a la tierra que el resto de nosotros.
Lo que me pareció fascinante de la forma en la que Alegría conto la historia es como él llega a mostrar la diversidad de pensamiento dentro de estas comunidades: la tensión entre saber que ellos están justificados en sublevarse y la absoluta seguridad de que tienen todas las de perder.
A través de esta larga novela – que si soy honesto tengo que decir que definitivamente podría haber sido más corta – Alegría muestra las diferentes acciones que la comunidad toma para tratar de salvarse y la forma en que la “ley” usa todo su poder para deshumanizarlos.
Es una novela del desarraigo, del dejar la tierra nativa por causas exteriores que te empujan a eso, cuando la injusticia se cierne sobre una comunidad para arrebatarle sus tradiciones y forma de vida.Gran novela que muestra el problema del campesino andino y su visión de mundo contrapuesta a los intereses de los gamonales, casi señores feudales que abusaban de su poder y su dinero corrompiendo autoridades.Es una de las mejores obras de la llamada literatura indigenista. Ganó el Concurso Latinoamericano de Novela convocado desde Estados Unidos por la prestigiosa Editorial Farrar & Rinehart.
This is a patchwork quilt of a book. I got a good sense of the plight of the native South Americans who are in conflict with European landowners expanding their holdings. It isn't an edifying tale though and I felt that I didn't really get to know the characters very well. It seemed to me like a series of incidents and people telling stories about previous incidents. I was pleased to have read it though as it is an aspect of European imperialism that I haven't read much about before. Definitely worth tackling but not a 'great' novel.
This book is the story of an Andean village in Peru in the early 1900's. The author does a wonderful job of depicting life, the different groups of people, their motives and their struggle. Very educational for one lacking background in the history of the area.
Beautifully written depiction of the struggle of a people and the sad reality that is their never-ending oppression.If only he could have found a more optimistic ending...
One of the few book recommendations my Granmother gave me. You MUST read this book, she said. And she was right.
Novela que cuenta la lucha y diferencias entre terratenientes y pobladores de un pueblo de la sierra. Denuncia las diferencias de clases y la injusticia social.
Translation is excellent of a somewhat depression account of the total destruction of a community in peru. The characters are very endearing and throughout the novel the reader wan
