https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782408.Steps_in_Time
The indefatigable optimist Friedrich Austerlitz (known to the world as Fred Astaire) sounds forth on his life and work in this popular 1959 autobiography.
You won't hear much about Fred's travails and difficulties -- while filming DADDY LONG LEGS in 1955, co-star Leslie Caron remembers him weeping into a makeup towel over his wife's death -- but none of that here.
What's left is breezy and entertaining, but leaves the reader with the feeling he or she has not experienced the real man.Update (November 20, 2018): To help round out the picture, consider as well PUTTIN' ON THE RITZ by Peter J.
Quite the enjoyable read. He writes as if he were sitting in your living room telling you his life story over drinks and cigarettes. It also made me want to pause reading and watch each film as he mentioned them. Now to sign up for ballroom classes...
Since I was in high school, I have never tired of watching Fred Astaire movies.
It is easy to "hear" the voice of Fred Astaire in this book, and it is consistent all the way through.
He talks about the deaths of associates and friends as if he were reporting for a newspaper, not as if he had any personal interest.
He talks about the fun and laughs he had with various co-stars, but he relates few actual stories of fun things they did or said.
Through this autobiography, I learned that Fred Astaire has always been a very positive, agreeable person. He's very generous in telling us funny stories and details about all of his works. You can learn a lot by what he does NOT say too. Giving paragraphs to Leslie Caron, Bing Crosby, and others makes his one sentence about working with Gene Kelly quite a statement.
As a huge Astaire fan I thought this was a really interesting and enjoyable read
Astaire by Astaire. Good insight into his early years on the stage.
If you are wanting Fred Astaire to spill the beans on life in Hollywood and the stars he worked with, then you will be disappointed with Steps in Time. As I understand Fred Astaire was a very private man and it is reflected in Steps in Time. What you get is a potted history of his life, it deals especially with his working life with his sister Adele and the shows in which they worked. I found this an interesting read as I love all things Astaire.
This was quite an enjoyable read.
What I learned from reading Astaire's autobiography is that he was funny, honest, and agreeable.
To be honest, this is the case with all the older celebrities, they rarely wrote autobiographies with revelations and stuck with keeping their “clean” image.
I was looking forward to know what made Astaire tick like what was his emotional makeup, his views about life and stuff like that or simply better details regarding dance and his inspirations but unfortunately this book lacked such depth.Overall, it was delightful and I enjoyed it immensely.
His perspective on his childhood career is interesting, and some of the anecdotes from his stage career, although told with limited detail--as though he's not sure why someone else might care to read it--are amusing.A bulk of the book is just a rundown of life events: "I did this show, and then I did that show.
And then I did this other show." The times when he seems most real are when talking about flops and how much his career successes and failures affect him emotionally, although even that concept--while returned to whenever another flop occurs--is told in a straightforward fashion.That's not to say that the book seems inauthentic.
I'd already read a partial biography of Fred, so I knew to expect some glossing over in this book, and there indeed was a lot of it, - but it made for a pleasant read.
I think he struck a good middle ground between screen Astaire and real Astaire, letting us know there was hard work in his craft, and just what a worrier and a bit of a bore he was, without the book itself ending up to be boring or on the other hand featuring too much "unpleasantness".
Have always been a fan of Fred Astaire.
I was surprised to read he has been working since he was a bout six years old.
He worked with his sister Adele in Vaudeville and in plays since childhood and into his early 30s.
When his sister decided to retire get married that was when Fred Astaire started his movie career.
He writes of the movies he was in and the actors he worked with like Ginger Rogers, Judy Garland, Rita Hayworth.
If you are a fan of Fred Astaire, you may like his memoir.
“Step in Time” by Fred Astaire is a inspiring and wonderful book about the life of Fred Astaire; who is one of the best dancer, choreographers, and actors in all US history.
The storyline of this book starts when Fred is younger and as you get to the end of the book it takes you through his whole life.
I think this because it would be very challenging for younger kids to read due to the wording throughout the book.
All in all, the autobiography book “Step in Time” by Fred Astaire is an amazing book and if you haven’t read it yet it should be one of your options when picking a new book.
I love Fred Astaire, and his autobiography is very interesting.
What a life he led, on stage with his sister Adele from the age of five, vaudeville tours, Broadway shows, trips to London, audiences with royalty, then the movies, Ginger Rogers, radio and TV.
Not to mention his horses, his dance studios, his marriage to Phyllis, their two children; all in all, an amazing story.
The book ends in 1959, and he lived to be 88 years old, so there was still a great deal more to tell until June 22, 1987.
When asked to expound on the history and philosophy of "the dance" he replied, "I just dance." Indeed.
I don't feel like I really got to know him. It was more like reading a timeline of his life and his career. Very little in the way of personal feeling or emotion or insight. I think, for example, his personal commentary about when his wife died was all of three or four sentences. All in all it was written alright but lacked the depth of other autobiographies.
It was a very enjoyable reading indeed, as Mr. Astaire' writing resembles one's manner of speaking, talking to a friend. I could easily picture his rather idyllic life, but, as expexted, I didn't get any fine literature here. I suppose that if it hadn't been for me having been a fan of Mr. Astaire ever since I saw his dancing, I wouldn't have found it interesting.
Fred Astaire has a lovely writing style that is light and easy to read.
Fred Astaire is one of the greatest entertainers and this book tells if his trials and triumphs. You will see the fabulous Mr. Astaire in a new light! Really recommend this book!
I adore Fred Astaire even more after reading this book.I do feel like he spent way too much time talking about his time on stage with his sister, and not enough talking about his time in films, but I still loved learning his story from his words, and if I want to learn more details on his time in films I can always pick up another biography.
He also mentioned lots of songs and dance numbers; again, probably more interesting if you've seen the movie or recognize the songs.It feels more like a recitation of facts than the telling of a semi-coherent story.
He barely mentions his kids -- was he really not part of their lives or is he trying to protect their privacy or did he think people didn't care?Interesting to see that he essentially had 3 careers and they occurred serially (no overlap): Vaudeville, Broadway, Hollywood.He definitely led the lifestyle of the rich and famous, although he emphasized several times that he and his wife didn't really go to a lot of parties.
I like Fred Astaire and love his films with Ginger Rogers, but I feel like this book barely glazed the surface.
There wasn't a lot of emotion in his writing (even with traumatic events, like the death of his wife), and I don't feel like I know him any more now than I did before I started the book.
Also, I wasn't too particularly interested in reading about his vaudeville or Broadway days, and it seemed like it took a long time to get to the chapters when he talks about his films.
I'm hoping that Ginger Rogers' autobiography will be more interesting!
I love the Fred Astaire Ginger Rogers movies especially Swing Time.
I've read her autobiography and his, these were complex driven people.
I get the idea throughout Steps In Time that Astaire never fully opens up, he always holds something back unlike much of his dancing.
Keeping parts of your life private are great unless you're writing an autobiography.
By the time this finishes, I don't feel like I know him.
The pictures are amazing and the movies he left us even better.
It was great to have a new copy since my original hardback was loaned out and never returned.
Overall a good time but nothing spectacular, granted Fred Astaire does say from the beginning that he's not a writer.
I picked this up at my local book sale on the cheap because I grew up watching Astaire's movies on tv.
I do respect that he never revealed any damaging secrets about his costars in later editions and how he acknowledges his own reputation as a massive worrier and task-master.
It reads like how your grandparents would tell you stories, which provides some comfort but also can get a little sleepy at times.
Still, it was enjoyable enough and a nice quick read.
Although I love and adore Fred Astaire, I think he would have been better served having someone else write this.
I did learn a lot about his early life, pre-film, but there was a lot of details left out.
He touched on how hard it was to do the dance sequences, but I would have liked more info there, and although you learn his first wife Phyllis has headaches and surgery for them, he never actually tells you what she was diagnosed with and died from.All in all, though, a quick read.
I love Fred Astaire and I really wanted to find out more about how he thought and considered his career. This is a nice little book, but he is not a writer. I think he was aware of that and takes it all in stride. This read more of a Who's Who in the life of Fred Astaire more than anything. He approached life matter-of-factly and is most politically correct in his passages regarding others he's worked with. But I never got a feel for the "passion" of the man. Maybe there was none... Still... I LOVE him!
An autobiography of (in my opinion) one of the best dancers of all time. It was interesting though, that Fred talked a lot about his movies and the people he worked with but glossed over the personal, both good and bad. Still, what a wonderful life he lead and what a seemingly pleasing person he was! Now I want to go get all of his films and watch them all over again to just marvel at his work.
As a ballroom instructor who has worked in a Fred Astaire studio, it was a lot of fun to read this book and get a greater understanding and appreciation for all the man did and went through. I found his (now) archaic vernacular and modesty humanizing and endearing. There are several places in the book where lists of people are mentioned who I'm sure we're very important people, however they meant little too me because I had no clue who they were.
I read this book when I was a wee thing. At the time, I found it pretty boring! I was also distressed that Astaire seemed to be much more interested in horses than dancing, but then he ended up marrying a jockey, so I guess he ended up following his bliss, so good for him.My kids are now very into Astaire movies, so I think I should read this again, but I remember it being a bit of a slog, so probably not! Probably better to leave the memoirs to the pros.
Fred Astaire was an amazing dancer and a fine singer and actor. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of his skill as a writer. Astaire has no interest in telling a compelling story, or in revealing any deep emotions about his life - what you get is "this happened, and then that happened." But I found it interesting for the details of life in vaudeville and musical theater before the talkies came in and mostly swept those branches of show business away.
Anyone who loves Fred Astaire will love this. But a few side notes: he is better at dancing than writing and the book is a straight chronology. I had to slog through the first few chapters before I started getting into it. He may or may not have been a genius dancer and entertainer, but what this book puts into perspective is that he worked his whole life at it!
I really enjoyed this book. Fred Astaire lead a fascinating life and you can tell that Fred Astaire actually wrote the book himself, unlike most autobiographies. (Note - I read a different edition of this book. It was an extremely old edition, complete with wonderful pictures from his life and movies. I am not sure if this newer, paperback version includes the pictures.)
