https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55764.Marine_Sniper
This is an incredibly whitewashed, essentially jingoistic quasi-novel rather than a genuine biography.
In the preface, the author freely admits that he ”took the liberty of inventing dialogue for Hathcock’s North Vietnamese and Viet Cong opponents.” He also invents their thoughts, and, I suspect, some of the dialogue and thoughts of the Americans as well.
Also, I’ve heard that his fact-checking leaves much to be desired, though I’m not educated enough in terms of military history to be able to confirm that.
(But it certainly wouldn’t surprise me if he got overly “inventive” with that too.)
“There is no hunting like the hunting of man, and those who have hunted armed men long enough and liked it, never care for anything else thereafter.” This quote from Ernest Hemingway opens the story of one of the greatest snipers the military has ever seen.
Henderson excels in zeroing in on the tensest moments of Hathcock’s life as a sniper in Vietnam: crawling inches per minute across open enemy territory, sleeping without shutting his eyes lest the Viet Cong catch him off guard, firing a shot straight through the scope of an enemy sniper and into his brain.
While the story of Carlos Hathcock is amazing beyond belief, I felt let down by the narrative of Charles Henderson.
There is one aspect of this book that is especially bothering to me; I would imagine that the events taking place in Vietnam must have been immensly intense and frightening.
For example, mental pressure felt by Hathcock as he 'played hide and seek' with Vietnamese snipers must have been paralyzing.
I don't know, maybe the problem was with the reader of the book (I've listened to this book in Audible version) that failed, but the intensity of the events described in 'Marine Sniper' somehow went straight past me.
Every sniper I've known or heard interviewed has said the same kind of thing about how he or she handled the act of looking at another human being that appeared to be close by (through a scope) but usually didn't even know the sniper was there, then carefully and deliberately shooting and killing that person.
They also talked about depersonalizing it, deliberately thinking of the people they were shooting as simply targets.Most seemed to have made peace with what they'd had to do, though some were tormented then and later and a fair number who started out found that they couldn't do the job emotionally.Hathcock was a hard man to figure out, a bundle of seeming paradoxes.
Marine Sniper is a true story about Sergeant Carlos Hathcock. Hathcock enlisted into the marines at age 17 and went on to become one of the greatest marksmen in the United States Marine Corps. At one part of the book Carlos is with Burke and they are both making there way to Elephant Valley. At Elephant Valley they would sit and shoot NVA’s. After shooting at the NVA’s from a distance in the shadows they take cover. Burke and Hathcock are both sitting there for days shooting at them and killing
At Elephant Valley they would sit and shoot NVA’s.
Burke and Hathcock are both sitting there for days shooting at them and killing them.
I think that the author did a great job on this book because it has photos and definitions at the bottom of the page to help people who don’t know things about the military.
I also like this book because it tells the story of a great Marksman of the United States Marine Corps.
I think that this book was also great because once I started reading it I felt like I couldn’t stop, I wanted to know what would happen next.
In Marine Sniper rekonstruiert Charles Henderson, die wahre Geschichte des legendären Scharfschützen Carlos Hathcock.Dass es sich bei dem Titel nicht um eine kritische Auseinandersetzung mit dem Vietnamkrieg handeln kann, sollte jedem klar sein.
Oder wie Ernest Hemingway schrieb: “There is no hunting like the hunting of man, and those who have hunted armed men long enough and liked it, never care for anything else thereafter.”Ähnlich geht es auch Hathcock, der Nacht für Nacht in den Dschungel kriecht bis er körperlich so ausgemergelt ist, dass ihm sein Vorgesetzter Hausarrest erteilt.
Wer dagegen mehr über den Job des Scharfschützen erfahren möchte, wird mit Marine Sniper bestimmt auf seine Kosten kommen.
Marine Sniper goes through the military life of Carlos Hathcock; mainly focusing on his tours in Vietnam.
It tells his struggles in a captivating way and triumphs in his personal and military life.
The main things I enjoyed about this book was it felt like a story and was extremely easy to visualize.
When he was headed through the jungle or crawling across a field you felt like your watching a movie.
This leads to some more boring chapters however I would still strongly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys history or the Military.
In the book Marine Sniper 93 Confirmed Kills by Charles Henderson (the author of Silent Warrior) is an explosive true story on how Staff Sergeant Hathcock became America’s deadliest sniper.
I believe the author’s purpose on why he wrote this book is because he wanted to tell the story of one of the best Marine snipers to ever live and to let people know about him.
Then at other times the whole story is description because the author made it feel like I was right there with Hathcock and Burke when they were going through the jungle and other trips.
This book is not easy to put down for those who love action and suspense books.While reading this book, I could imagine I was in the audience of the national shooting competition when all went quiet for the shot that decided it all.
Anyone who is a hunter can at least partially understand the skill and stealth it takes to stalk prey and place a perfect shot on the target.
Even those who have not done any hunting activity can understand how stealthy and skillful the sniper must be to complete his mission.
I would recommend it to anyone who loves action, suspense, or hunting.
having been fairly generous with the 4-stars lately, I guess I have to lean towards the 3 on this 3/4 borderline work.
there are distinct arguments for the 4-- the ending, the multi-functional aspects of Henderson's capabilities, some of the uniquely defined personalities.
yet there were times when the stories seemed to end too quickly.
where did the other soldiers end up in post-war life?3/5 but to some degree missing the 4 only due to the plethora of other great titles acquired recently.
Charles Henderson's 'Marine Sniper' is a dramatized account of the life of a Vietnam War sniper.
Based on the life and times of Sergeant Carlos Hathcock - an American soldier who apparently eventually became the posterboy of the Marine Sniper program - the book seemed an interesting prospect at first.
One, I love war books and two, I love history books (Marine Sniper is set in the Vietnam War).
And the focus on battle tactics or history was minimal.The only thing that made the book tolerable was Hathcock...
real, gritty and human in the parts of the book Henderson allows him to be so.
It’s the true story of the most prolific sniper in the history of the Marines: 93 confirmed kills in Vietnam.
The things he had to do, laying in the jungle for hours or days with bugs eating him alive, crawling through all kinds of foul water and jungle slime, are just amazing.
In one story, he had to crawl 1500 yards (about ¾ of a mile) to get close enough to an enemy camp to kill a general.
Because there was no cover, he had to worm crawl the whole way, inch by inch, and it took him 3 days!
3 days to go ¾ of a mile!
Intense historical account of Marine Sniper Gunnery Sergeant Carlos Hathcock (93 Kills) written by Charles Henderson former Marine and historian who 'knows' his subject. At times it's a sensitive and meaningful look into the private and family life of a man performing a military task that even many of his superiors didn't consider 'right'. The argument between the use of napalm and sniper rifle as weapons in battle is in my view moot. a good read of you're in the market.
This was a good book written about one of the greatest snipers in military history, however the way it was written seemed a bit like a biased history. At times it seemed like the enemy was just dummies stuffed with straw, it also seems Charles Henderson was trying to make the book like an action movie. Aside from that though the story about John Hathcock and what he did in Vietnam is great and is worth learning about.
A hard and inspiration read. Every critic of the Vietnam war should read, and understand what soldiers went through to battle Evil. It was a hard read because my civilized mind has a hard time wrapping my brain around the necessity of cold blooded killing in a time of war. But I am also convinced we have civilization, ideals and freedom because of vets.
Sergeant Carlos Hathcock is a legend in the Marine Corps. One of my friends who was (is: once a Marine always a Marine) a Marine gave this book to me. Taunt and filled with close calls - better than fiction.
Marine Sniper is the best book I’ve ever read. I recommend it to everyone. I talking my book club book into reading it and even the one who complained the most about reading it said it was a good book. It tells the remarkable story of a marine known as Carlos Hathcock, or known to his enemies as “white feather”, “ I understand some of it and then after that… white feather Sniper”(Henderson 273). Carlos was a man of myth, and a legend in the marine Corps. He sold the sniper program to the Marine
It tells the remarkable story of a marine known as Carlos Hathcock, or known to his enemies as “white feather”, “ I understand some of it and then after that… white feather Sniper”(Henderson 273).
Without Carlos the Marine Sniper program would not be what it is today.The story of Carlos Hathcock was he went to Vietnam after winning a big marksman tournament.
I started researching and I found his life to be so interesting and the book did a magnificent job presenting it.Henderson wrote Marine Sniper so vivid I actually felt like I was standing right next to Carlos in Vietnam.
The book is about Sergeant Carlos Hathcock, a Marine sniper during the Vietnam War. He enlisted in the Marines Corps in 1959.
Mr. Hathcock briefly served in the military police before being transferred into a sniper unit due to his past success with competitive shooting.
Carlos Hathcock was an exception to this because he made a major impact on the success of his unit during his time in Vietnam.
If you are thinking about enlisting in the military, being a sniper, or what it was like to fight in Vietnam, this book is perfect for you.
Incredible story I read the book Marine Sniper for a school book club and was incredibly pleased with my choice. At first I was skeptical because of some of the reviews on amazon and goodreads but as soon as this book arrived on my doorstep I couldn't wait to start reading it. The writing was quite well done, but the story of Carlos Hathcock’s life was so great that the writing could have been garbage and the book would have still been one of the top on my list.  One of my favorite parts of this
Incredible story	I read the book Marine Sniper for a school book club and was incredibly pleased with my choice.
One of my favorite parts of this book was when Carlos saved many of his fellow marines, putting their lives ahead of his own.
In conclusion this book is an example of how great of a man Carlos Hathcock was.
Not only is he a great man but also an incredible marine and one of the most talented snipers to ever live.
That is why I can only give the book Marine Sniper four out of five stars.
The action is compelling and drives the book along.Hathcock kills VC/NVA targets from long range, solves military mysteries, does some spy assassinations and even goes alone to plink a NVA general in an NVA "base camp".
Some of the tales stretch imagination (and don;t seem to holds up to historical scrutiny), but our hero emerges almost all the time unscathed and to the good.
A small but effective picture section fills out the offering.Junior readers will find this a very rewarding read, although they may take a few grains of salt with their entertainment.
Military Enthusiasts/Gamers/Modellers will be rewarded with a rollicking tale and some good scenario/diorama pointers into the bargain.
This book talks about a man named Carlos Hathcock.
This book talks what Carlos Hathcock did he was in the Vietnam war as a sniper and the things he went through in that war.
What i like about this book is that it talks about how quite and such a marksman he was in the war and how strong he had to be during the time that he was in and how he dealed with all of his situations that he was put in.
This is a short readable biography of Carlos Hathcock, the famous Marine Corps sniper. The book has a nice balance of background, family life, and events from Vietnam. I don't give it a higher number of stars, because Charles Henderson is not much of a prose stylist and there could have been more license taken with Hathcock's internal dialog to make it more interesting. One interesting thing I took from the book is that it seems most of Hollywood's conventions for snipers are taken from Hathcock's life--e.g., the shot down the other sniper's scope in a counter sniper operation.
Brilliantly written, relentlessly researchedIF you have any interest in skills hard-learned, persistence beyond what we think of as the limits of human obstinacy--if you are encouraged, in the full sense of encouragement, by the persistence toward success and the courage needed to support that degree of stubbornness in the face of likely defeat--if you are that person, you will appreciate this book and the man about whom it is written.Otherwise, put it down now.
Carlos Hathcock was a true American hero. I read this book quite a few years ago. Great attention to detail on some of the missions that Carlos Hathcock was involved with.A copy of the book that I have is autographed by Carlos Hathcock. I used to call him later in his life when he lived in Virginia Beach, Virginia. He also sent me polaroid pictures of his medals as well. There are so many lessons that we can learn when we read this book. I gave it five stars.
A Personal HistoryThis biography of a grunt doing his best in a tragically misguided and unnecessary war involving the U.S. in a quagmire of corruption and greed Unfortunately both American and Vietnamese governments sent thousands of young men to their deaths in a futile cause that dishonored the U.S. and ultimately destroyed the South Vietnamese government. All on the backs of young men trying to perform their duty and stay alive
One of the most intriguing books I have ever read. Sergeant Carlos Hathcock is an absolute legend that I had never heard of until reading this book. It tells the story of the Marines starting up there own sniper team and recruiting Hathcock along with several other sharp shooters. Some of the stories seem almost so impossible you almost can't believe its true. Including one of his most famous shots. I won't spoil them here though. Definitely worth the read.
One of a kindThis is an amazing story that demonstrates the amazing resilience of the human will. I expect there are a limited number of individuals who possess the tenacity of spirit demonstrated by this warrior. One is astounded by the feats of accomplishment present in this man. It is truly awe inspiring. A must read for anyone who enjoys military history and the accomplishments of true heroes.
Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills by Chris Henderson is a story about a legendary, ghost-like, deadshot who went on tours and racked up many kills to protect his fellow "brothers". This book is for anyone looking for a book that shows the thoughts of someone who is about to stop the heartbeat of another living person for the prosperity of their side of the battle. I would highly recommend this book because it leaves you on your toes and it holds you till the very end.
Amazing career for the US Marine Corps greatest sniper. I felt that the writing was a bit uneven at times, but the supurb research and pulling the sources together to complete the story in a believable way was very well done. The story of Seargeant Hathcock is one of perseverence in the face of any obstacle, and then succeeding. I highly recommend.
Finally finished this book. it took a while of reading it then putting it down for weeks, but i got there. I have enjoyed this book mainly because i'm in to these kind of books and it some of it related to my Vietnamese background. Over all its a good book but i think it only appeals to a certain type of audience.
