https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/536072.The_Sandcastle
There are a number of oddities in this; I am no expert in the nature of human attraction, but it was not immediately obvious why Rain fell for Mor. He was indecisive and rather lacking in personal charisma; both are also quite unworldly and Mor seeks to avoid confrontations (mostly with his wife).
All of the characters have lost something by the end, had some hope or other dashed.
Murdoch does a very good job of illuminating the everyday hopes and despairs of ordinary people in a subtle and understated way.
A good novel which reminds me that I must read more Murdoch.
Murdoch’s characterisation is for the most part, outstanding and has a real feel of authenticity to it – especially the main protagonist Bill Mor. There is much ambiguity throughout ‘Sandcastle’ right up to the closing pages – providing the novel with much intrigue, mystery and interest concerning the possibilities that life offers, be they real and/or imagined.Murdoch also includes sporadic elements of magical realism – which in one sense don’t feel at first as though they quite work, or sit well in the context of the rest of the story and it is not clear quite what they do add to an already driven narrative.
I suppose that many great novels can be said to have one important talent- that of making their characters come to life.
Iris manages to capture that and somehow you can feel that she is capable both of restraining from judgement and making a slight fun of her characters.This novel like many of her works, focuses on theme of adultery and marriage.
Nan doesn’t deeply care for her children, her feelings for them are all instinct, she will take care of their needs, do their laundry when they came back from school but that is where her care ends.
Description: The quiet life of schoolmaster Bill Mor and his wife Nan is disturbed when a young woman, Rain Carter, arrives at the school to paint the portrait of the headmaster.The setting is St. Bride's, described as a sound and reputable public school of the second class.
His wife, Nan, has a more sceptical nature, but she too is dedicated to an abstraction - the idea of marriage.
They have two adolescent children.There are tensions, but everything is in control until Rain Carter, a young artist, appears on the scene.
When I tried to make a sandcastle, the sand would just run away between my fingers.
My mother read a couple of Murdoch books but never continued with this author because, as she put it, she found her work a bit too 'somber'.
She also said that I would probably like them because I'm somber too.
Murdoch is uncompromising in her meticulous, scrupulous characterisations, presenting people as realistic and complex.
It is almost as if these are real people and she is painting an accurate, unweighted portrait of them.
Not somber but rigorous and therefore as exhausting as it is exhaustive and satisfying.
This is the first Iris Murdoch book I have read and I know it will not be the last.
Loved it, loved it, loved it!Set around a boy's school and its staff, we meet Mor, his rather forceful wife, Nan, and their two teenage offspring, Don and Felicity.
This seems to be quite a dysfunctional family in a way, especially Felicity who believes she has a special "gift".
Then enters into the story some of the school staff, Revvy Evvy, Demoyte, Hensman and the stuttering art master, Bledyard.
And who really was that gypsy tramp?Would highly recommend, especially if, like me, this is your first encounter with Iris Murdoch.
Iris Murdoch plasma magistralmente amplios y agudos exámenes interiores que inquietan sobremanera al ser humano, pensamientos internos que no cesan de fluir en las conciencias de cada personaje, en especial del protagonista llamado William Mor. Pero sobre todo la novela destila sensibilidad con un toque de sabiduría y filosofía.
La historia cuenta, entre otras cosas, una azarosa relación de amor, que no de pasión, entre un hombre maduro, casado y con dos hijos, un hombre atado a la monótona vida cotidiana cuya libertad de acción y sentimientos pareciera estar suprimida o al menos encerrada dentro de una estrecha jaula cuyos barrotes son las convenciones sociales, la moral burguesa y esa brutal monotonía en que suele convertirse la vida.
Another "tour de force" by one of my favorite authors.4* Living on Paper: Letters from Iris Murdoch, 1934-19955* Iris: A Memoir of Iris Murdoch5* Iris Murdoch: Dream Girl4* A Severed Head4* The Sea, the Sea4* The Black Prince4* The Bell3* Under the Net3* The Italian Girl4* The SandcastleTR The Sacred and Profane Love MachineTR A Fairly Honourable DefeatTR The Nice and the GoodTR The Philosopher's PupilTR The Good ApprenticeTR The Red and the Green
I cannot recall how many Iris Murdoch books I have read.
They have all been amazing, and it has taken quite a bit of self-restraint to resist reading each and every one of her books, one after the other.
But I have thus far succeeded because I like to space out the goodness.The Sandcastle is a brief and straightforward novel about a family man who is unhappy with his marriage, and drawn toward a much younger woman who shows up in town for a spell.
What I appreciated most about the book is the huge number of well drawn out characters.
My favorite Murdoch so far. There was an incessant current of vitality in the novel, even the henpecked and the discarded found itself surged and embraced. That's a feat in itself.
In this way the book is much like a painting itself.I thought of the plot as a bit of a landslide - the worlds of adults, of children, the private and the public, rolling, sliding towards the point of no return, colliding, changing.Perhaps it is rather that we feel our own face, as a three-dimensional mass, from within - and when we try in a painting to realize what another person's face is, we come back to the experience of our own.Art and its creation (the debate on how to paint a face) are juxtaposed with the forces that make and break the life of the individual (how to treat other people, love, religion, scruples).
THE SANDCASTLE. (1957). Iris Murdoch. *****. This novel by Murdoch (1919-1999) easily qualifies as a five-star performance, even though there were a couple of sections that could easily have been edited out and provided additional forward motion to the plot. It’s the story of Bill Mor, a middle-aged, married schoolmaster who falls violently in love with a young woman painter who has been commissioned to paint a portrait of the recently retired headmaster. The story becomes complicated by Nan, Mo
This novel by Murdoch (1919-1999) easily qualifies as a five-star performance, even though there were a couple of sections that could easily have been edited out and provided additional forward motion to the plot.
It’s the story of Bill Mor, a middle-aged, married schoolmaster who falls violently in love with a young woman painter who has been commissioned to paint a portrait of the recently retired headmaster.
In addition to his career as a teacher, Mor has ambitions in politics.
She too is immediately dazzled by Mor, even though there is a significant disparity in their ages.
Mor is a teacher and housemaster at St Bride's school.
They have a teenage son who attends St Bride's and a pubescent daughter at another private school.
Because I have read Harry Potter, I am familiar with this English school scene.
A young female painter arrives at St Bride's where she has been commissioned to paint the portrait of the former headmaster.
Mor falls in love with her, wants to throw away his marriage, and Nan must find a way to hold on to him.
Because this is Iris Murdoch, there are plenty of hilarious, silly, and nail-biting scenes.
Read the book for the first time for my secondary school exams, early in 1982. Bought a copy some years later and read it again, as I really liked it.
Another very satisfying Murdoch read, for me. She captures the complexity and contradictions inherent in human nature and human relationships. I liked it a lot.
I feel like this book was very British, and very 1960s style - a lot of words and details, not a lot of dialogue, VERY little action. Not my favorite style, personally.
As the cover of the book says very accurately, it is about "the conflict between love and loyalty." Well, perhaps I would complicate that a bit.
I'm not giving anything away (it is on the back cover description of the book) to say that the protagonist has to choose between his powerful love for a young painter and his loyalty to his family.
What complicates the book description I mentioned is that he also feels a profound love for his children if not for his nagging, belittling wife.
I won't know until I re-read it in 10 years.
So much of what happens that is significant in this story (as in life) takes place in the minds of its characters in response to seemingly insignificant minutae.
Which is not to say that the story is uneventful or merely cerebral.
I like also how supernatural elements are suggested throughout, but gently, giving you the sense that there is something larger at work here while allowing you to preoccupy yourself with the intricacies of the human condition, as they play themselves out in the novel.
Ultimately this is a very honest, human book.
This is my third novel by Iris Murdoch, and probably the one I like the most.
This novel is the story of Mor, a teacher in a private school married to a controlling wife, Nan. Without giving to much away, Mor ends up in a situation where he can start his life over with a younger women, Rain, or pursue his dreams within the confines of his marriage.
This novel (one of Murdochs early works) is nicely paced, funny at times, and has a nice edge of your seat ending.
I love Iris Murdoch. This is the fourth book I've read by her and the fourth one in which a swimming scene figures prominently. This time everything turns around Rain's swim in the river (not, as Felicity would have had it, around the ceremony on the rocks or the climb on the tower).On a separate note, here is a list of books in which cars sink in rivers: Gallatin Canyon, The Love of a Good Woman, The Sandcastle. Let me know if I have missed any.

I am always positive about Iris Murdoch's books simply because of the detailed character descriptions, insight into motivation and clever storytelling.
The prologue to the edition I read said there was very little to tie the title to the actual story except with reference to the Bible passage about the man who built his house on the sand and saw it washed away.
The book is a tender portrayal of a man whose life has become dull and who rediscovers his own capacity for love through an artist and her art.
Memorable in its word pictures, if not in its plot.
iris murdoch continues to dazzle... still don't know how she does it... this is probably the "normalest" of the books of hers i've read-- it's almost completely "realistic"-- and yet somehow it too seems to glow from within with mystery and fantasy and hallucinatory detail and feeling and metaphysical import... love iris murdoch more than ever... i feel like i live her books more than read them...
Iris Murdoch's third published novel is a fascinating about the relationship between a married school master and a young woman who arrives to paint the portrait of the retired headmaster. A more domestic, and mature work than the previous two novels.
İçinde hikayeye garip bir biçimde yerleştirilmiş gerçek dışı ögeler bulunduran bir aşk öyküsü. Ne desem bilemedim. Yazarın aynı zamanda teorisyen olduğunu bildiğim için bambaşka bir şey beklemiştim kitaptan. birkaç andan tat alabildim sadece kitabı okurken, onun dışında bitirmeye dair sorumluluk duygusu ile okudum sadece.
In the very simple lives of ordinary people, with mundane English village lifestyles of honorable participants, there can emerge the most tormenting, unsolvable desires that can never be fulfilled, and one must just continue to endure, while all that promises happiness and contentment is lost just like the weak foundation of a sandcastle.Murdoch was a genius, and she portrayed all the psychological torment along with detailed, step-by-step portrayal of actions and happenings, some of which were coincidental.
I need to read more of Murdoch's books.
The plot describes the ageing academic, Mor, and his brilliantly infuriating wife, Nan, in the power struggle of their largely loveless marriage.
When Mor accidentally falls in love with a vivacious and youthful artist called Rain, his entire life is thrown into turmoil as he suddenly discovers happiness and way to exist in his own right.
Though Murdoch paints every character's feelings sensitively and with an unabashed honesty, she in no way glorifies infidelity, which is such a risk when dealing with this issue.
The Sandcastle is both heart wrenching and infuriating, but much like these situations in real life (I suppose), expect no ultimate happy ending!
I've recently reread this book for the Home Reading class that I'm teaching and I was yet again reminded of how amazingly beautiful and incredibly symbolic it is.
I remember not particularly liking it back then, in my third year, but that was because reading it (and discussing every single detail, even (seemingly) insignificant ones) was a must and because the language was perhaps a bit too sophisticated to me then, but now I enjoyed it immensely.
Even though it's extremely depressing, which is a thing that - in most cases - always puts me off reading.
Very sweet story about the complications of loving different people at different times and places of your life. We want to think love and everything else are permanent fixtures, but nothing in this world is a sure bet.
I had never read Iris Murdoch before. Really enjoyed - about a private boy's school teacher in England mid century and his marriage and dreams. Sad but also really funny at times. Sort of reminded me a bit of Virginia Woolf.
