https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8576497-roman-fever
The Roman setting – the ruins the ladies observe at their feet a reminder of their gone prime - in the story is amply symbolic, particularly the role of the Colosseum – as a reminiscence of the gladiator fights, as a former battleground between the characters - both having quite different memories on Rome and the monument - and as a reference to the story which Wharton’s friend Henry James wrote eighteen years earlier – Daisy Miller – in regard of which the title and the role the Roman fever plays in the story also will turn out to be telling, open to multiple interpretations as well as ironic.
And one may be hallucinated, pleasantly though, as if sitting their besides the two ladies and watching in awe, how contempt and jealousy grab Mrs. Slade that she wants her daughter to fall for an inappropriate and then bring out the heroic side of her to rescue her daughter from that suffering, for the notion of self-appeasement defeats the feeling of love for her daughter, for all emotions should make one great otherwise what is the use of them even if it may be love to your offspring.
“These two ladies visualized each other, each through the wrong end of her little telescope.”Two middle-aged widows, who’ve been intimate since a chance encounter in Rome as children, and lived opposite each other for their early married years, meet again in Rome.
They compare lives and daughters out loud and in their minds.
Many people rate this as one of her best stories.
Perhaps, having read 19 of her New York stories on the trot, I was a little jaded.
The single short story "Roman Fever" is about two middle-aged women, both with daughters, who have known each other most of their lives. As the story goes on, their true relationship is shown. There is betrayal and rivalry in their history. Excellent story.
A bit sad that I was able to guess the ending way before and nonetheless kept wishing for a last-line twist until the full stop mark. It's a nicely crafted and well-written story, and I liked it a lot.
(view spoiler)[ And there's a couple of details that attest to this: "Mrs. Slade stood looking down on the small bowed figure at her side.", "Mrs. Slade continued to look down on her." Also, when she revealed that it was actually her who wrote the letter, she was so dominatimg during that moment."  (hide spoiler)] However (as I'm finally beginning to learn with all the stories I've read so far for my American literature class), there's always, always some sort of twist towards the ending.
What a delightful short story with a surprise twist. I laughed out loud listening to this lovely radio dramatization at http://www.kpfahistory.info/dandl/rom...
"Roman Fever" is part of the four short stories that I have to read for English Literature for the first half of 10th grade.If there's something about short stories that I realize is that, there is not much character development.
Writing an essay for "Roman Fever" is frustrating because there's a lot of details in the build-up and I don't know which is important especially in remembering quotes.That overall, only in "Roman Fever" have I realize the power of words.
Like what Ed Kennedy in The Messenger said "I didn't know words can be so heavy" and that is present in "Roman Fever" especially on foreshadowing the final blow that Mrs. Ansley has against Mrs. Slade.This.I had Barbara.Just three words.
I started reading Roman Fever in a rush.
I had to go to the movies that night with a friend, and I just wanted to get my reading down so I could be ready when she arrived to pick me up.
It didn't seem like much at first, just two old catty friends trading snipes and barbs at each other, envying each others' lives and daughters.
I have to tip my hat to Edith Wharton because she manages to shock her readers and Mrs. Slade with just three words.
I reread Roman Fever four times after that revelation, wanting to make sure I didn't miss anything.
4.5/5 StarsI read this short story for my lit class, and it was interesting. I have a feeling that if the story had continued, these women would have at the very least gotten into a cat fight, and one of them may even have killed the other over the events that transpired in this story. The reason I'm taking of .5 stars is because I think it was too drawn out at the beginning, and then too quick at the end. It took forever to get to the climax of the story, and then it was suddenly over.
Out of the whole story I only liked the last 2 lines.
This was one of my favorite Edith Wharton stories. It is a short, light read, but the characters are dynamic and memorable, and the plot is intriguing. There are a few twists along the way, of course, and the unreliability of the characters' testimony allows for several different interpretations. All in all, a worthwhile read that invites great discussion.
The ending gets me every time!
Honestly, I feel as if Edith Wharton meant for the ending to be really somber and dramatic but, in my mind, Mrs. Ansley was just being a sassy piece of crap when she walks off, which I adored because let's be honest with each other, Mrs. Slade was being a real bitch.I loved how it compares to A Jury of Her Peers, because in that story we see women come together to protect each other, but in this Edith Wharton shows the underside of women hood.
It was just so dramatic and I really enjoyed how we got to see everything unfold; not in real time, but as a story told through an argument more than twenty years later.
As I read more and more short stories by authors of famous long novels, I'm confirming more and more the unique form of art that is the short story.
It's like a scene out of a play, and has that snapshot feel of telling a detailed story in one small moment of time.
It seems like authors use a whole different technique in their short stories.
I enjoyed the irony in this story.
The two "frenemies" Mrs. Ansley and Mrs. Slade think they have each other pegged, but their prejudgments leave them blind to what the other one actually thinks and feels.
What is it the character in this says? Something along the lines of "I had so wanted a brilliant daughter, only to be left with an angel." Wharton is hilarious, honest, and devastatingly relatable. Did you know she was one of the women to charge onto the warfront and write about it? Talk about guts. The volley-play between her and James has me transfixed too. Daisy Miller would have been the grandmother of these older bittys in the story. Wharton is clearly winking at her friend James. What would happen if a contemporary was to, hypothetically, wink back?
4.5/5. This was amazing! Read for class and even though I originally thought of skipping the reading (hehe) I am so glad I made myself go back and actually read it (there is a lesson to be learned here folks). The story is about two women, one whom knows the secret of her friend and vows to destroy her happiness, but in the end, it is this blind rage and jealousy that proves to be HER own undoing. Amazing!
Probably one of my favorites short stories. I love that it seems a story of no consequence told in a compelling way, and YET it's more. So much more.
Subtly clever and funny in an unexpected way, but that might just be my sense of humor.
A long-term friendship, a hidden rivalry, and more than one secret. Admittedly the final reveal I had long suspected, but it still packed a punch.Interesting to note are the different attitudes of each subsequent generation going to Italy/Rome; the newness vs tiredness of the view of the Forum and Colosseum; the ideas of innocence between young girls and mature women, Old World and New World, History and history.I actually read a PDF copy supplied by my professor, not this Kindle edition.
Ansley is my favorite. I adore her. I do feel slightly bad for Slade but she caused her own circumstances. I have trouble feeling totally bad for her because of that. Had Ansley slept with Mr. Slade our of nowhere I might feel differently. However, things were set in motion when Mrs. Slade penned that letter pretending to be her husband... It sucks that the affair happened but it was caused all by Mrs. Slade...
"So these two ladies visualized each other, each through the wrong end of her little telescope." 4 stars for that very amusing ending.
Great for a quick, short read.
A wonderful story, written in wonderful prose style. Wonderful, truly.
Possibly one of my FAVORITE short stories of all time. I read this aloud to my AP English classes for years, and they all reacted the same at the ending.
This short story had a lot of interesting twists that I did not expect. It made for a very entertaining story.
⭐: 2.75/5This was a dry read. It’s not bad, just not very engaging. Pity too, because the twist deserved so much more.
⭐️: 2.75/5This was a dry read. It’s not bad, just not very engaging. Pity too, because the twist deserved so much more.
Funny
Really enjoyed this. Very interesting ending but I was kind of expecting it.
Delightful and chilling little story, expertly observed as always.
