https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47562.The_Curious_Sofa
I read that Edward was poking fun of the Story of O with this.
There are some great innuendo's in here.
Nothing is explicit and it is all leading your mind to some kinky ideas.
It is very funny.
This is for mature audiences.The art was interesting and led you to wonder what was going on off frame which further upped the innuendo going on.
The book is brilliant.
This was so much fun to read and it was short.
Edward is even better in my mind now.
He is brilliant and doing things others weren't doing in the 50s and 60s.
Ohhhhhh it just hit me how euphemistically sexual it was. -.-Like, really. I don't deserve to wear my "Perverted and Proud" badge anymore.HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA OH, MY
Σε μια στιγμή μπαίνει ο κύριος Απόστολος στο γραφείο, και κράταγε την αυτή του, και την ακούμπησε πάνω στο γραφείο. Εγώ μπαίνω αμέσως, και χωρίς να την δω, του την πάτησα. Μετά, ανοίγει την πόρτα η Κυρία Ντόρα, μπαίνει μέσα, την βλέπει πατημένη και την τρώει. Μετάαα, μετά ήρθε ο Κύριος Πέτρος, και έφερε την δική του αυτή αλλά εμείς δεν την χρειαζόμασταν, είχαμε τελειώσει. -Χρόνης Μπαμπάτσικος.3 αστεράκια (=με άρεσε) + άλλο 1 για το τέλος.
A wonderful creation! Everything is left to the reader's imagination and, accordingly, all of the 'action' takes place just off the page. Very funny.
With drawings more like sketches this is far from my favorite Gorey, but it is a deliciously risque forest of euphemisms.I had to revise my rating upon further review. Yes, the drawings are simple, esp. compared to the density of lines in some of his other books, but there remains the same amount of grace and humor in their minimalism. 4 stars!
Laughing out loud. That's what I was doing the entire time my brother-in-law read it aloud to me. It was so hilariously, deliciously demented. A very, very naughty book, without ever showing anything, without ever naming a body part or anything explicitly vulgar. In fact, you could read this as a small child and think it was perfectly innocent. Oh. My.
There is something deliciously demented about Edward Gorey (who published this work under an acronym of his name; Ogdred Weary). This book is a silly, naughty romp that tangentially explores some very dark and frightening places. It's a dirty little quickie for book lovers."Looking out the window she saw Herbert, Albert, and Harold, the gardener, an exceptionally well-made youth, disporting themselves on the lawn. They were soon joined by Donald, Herbert's singularly well-favoured sheepdog, and many were the giggles and barks that came from the shrubbery."
The title is The Curious Sofa: A Pornographic Work by Ogdred Weary, but it's not really pornographic (sorry, I know you were hoping to read something titillating here!), and really by Gorey, of course.The copyright is 1961, and the artist/author Gorey was famously asexual or hid the fact he was gay, depending on whom you can trust here, all of his life.
Gorey loved what he saw as British life and literature, though he was American, born just north of Chicago, and in fact never traveled to the British Isles!
(Correct me if I am wrong, but I think this is a true and curious fact.
Hilarious . . . :-) I admit I had to look up a 'Lithuanian typewriter', as I'd never heard of it before ;-)But seriously, a lot is left to one's imagination, as neither the graphics nor the text are pornographic in itself. It is what's implied that makes this little book hilarious :-) It really is such a delicious, funny, witty read that it had me grinning several times, and I fully agree with Michelle Morrell's earlier review :-)
if you don't love Edward Gorey, I probably wouldn't like you very much.
A clever little book that shows that innuendo and hinting can be just as naughty as spelling it out.
THE CURIOUS SOFA: A Pornographic Work by Ogdred Weary is one of Edward Gorey's works in which the story is told through delightful pen-and-ink drawings with witty captions.
THE CURIOUS SOFA's cleverness lies in that on one hand it reveals nothing obscene--one would hardly have to fear if a young child came upon the book.
A good example caption is: "Downstairs the three of them played a most amusing game of Herbert's own invention called 'Thumbfumble.' They then sat down to a sumptuous tea", which is accompanied by an entirely innocuous drawing.
If Florence and Emily from Little Britain were to write a pornography, this would be it."But we are laaaaaaaadies and we must read laaaaadies pornography you see"Finally, an Edward Gorey tale that is not wrist slittingly depressing! The men are all extraordinarily something or other and the women free from all inhibitions. This is a deliciously demented read. However nothing is revealed or shown in the drawings. It is up the reader to see between the lines and outside the frames of the illustrations.Of course it wouldn't be Gorey if the characters didn't meet a grisly confusing end..
Maybe if I had actually read Story of O this would be funnier. Should I happen to read said book maybe I'll get back here and do a review.(Reread in Amphigorey; reviewing separately.)
This is a strange little book by Edward Gorey. The book is full of ambigous references to exotic sex acts, but nothing is ever explicitly shown or described. It will probably take you less than 10 minutes to read this book, but you will wonder about it for weeks to come.
Porno! Tapi bisa tidak disebut pornografi ya? Lah tidak ada gambar yang porno :D. Lalu: Elsie had expired during the night, and gloom descended on everybody. Kenapa si Elsie? Diapain pake saucepan? Lalu: sofanya ngapain? Misteri >_<.
A Dadaist pornography, where all of the action happens off-page, and all the descriptions are vague and unsuggestive.It appeals to me. Lots.
I'm thankful for Edward Gorey and his sick and twisted mind.
Lithuanian typewriter eh...
Haha.... what?
Despite being a self-proclaimed 'pornographic work', 'The Curious Sofa' is a surprisingly subtle and, considering it comes from the brain of Edward Gorey, unsurprisingly amusing yarn. Darkly whimsical in tone and, although certainly not explicit, concerning a slightly more adult subject matter than the rest of Gorey's work, 'The Curious Sofa' follows the adventures of a particularly open-minded young lady called Alice and alludes to all manner of compromising situations, ranging from a romp with a sheepdog to an encounter with a married couple who both have wooden legs. Another witty tale complete with fabulous illustrations.
Oh Edward! I knew you were nasty underneath all your PBS special drawings. This is delightfully dirty, and only in a way that is most telling about the own reader's mind. Fortunately, mine is filthy. I had to read this for a burlesque show where everyone reads the same book- in this case- 'The Curious Sofa', and then writes a song inspired by it. If you'd like to take a look- I wrote a song from the view point of the main character in the book for this show- and you can see it here. Dirty, dirty girl!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngB01d...
"a pornographic work", October 22, 2014This review is from: The Curious Sofa: A Pornographic Work by Ogdred Weary (Hardcover)Much of Edward Gorey's work is utterly witty and delicious, but I'm afraid this one (largely) missed the mark for me. Featuring a bunch of 1920s looking people -including a number of 'well-proportioned' gentlemen - frolicking at a house-party, I just didn't find it hugely funny.From our heroine perusing an album of 'instructive chromolithographs' to a married couple, both with wooden legs 'with which they could do all sorts of entertaining tricks'...hmm...
Oh gosh. This book. I innocently picked it up at the tender age of 5 or 6 (it was lying around at someone's place for some reason), not knowing what the P word meant yet and I skimmed through the book as though it was a REAL children's book. I then reread it in high school and gave myself a good slap in the forehead as I realised that it was laced with sexual innuendos (and subtle puns).Edward Gorey sure did a great job with the subtlety in the illustrations. Jeez.
Although I love Gorey's art and dark wit, I wasn't a fan of The Curious Sofa. There weren't rememberable characters, the jokes didn't always land, the variety of stories didn't flow great together, and I found nothing remotely erotic about the book. Not to say I went into this thinking it would turn me on... but at the very least, I expected Gorey to take sex serious at some point. He didn't and neither did I in liking this book. Two stars for quality illustrations and an interesting attempt.
A small childrens size book for adults, beautifully illustrated by the "eccentric" (quite a mild word for this man!) Edward Gorey with suave, non-titillating Edwardian to early 1920s style fashions but with quietly shocking blunt statements, such as "Still later Gerald did a terrible thing to Elsie with a saucepan", of all forms of sexual and sensual adult play with a menacing, almost Gothic undertone. Chilly, truly for being such a sweet little book judging by its cover!
This book is the most wonderful, icky-sweet icing on the Edward Gorey cake...my favorite of his has always been 'The Iron Tonic'...that perfect mixture of Victorian creepiness with kooky humor and literate cleverness...The Curious Sofa is like the Iron Tonic on Ecstacy (lame thing to say, but true)...less creepy (but still a bit!) and more saucy. Gorey has always worked in a touch of the bawdy, but in this tale he works it on out!
I always liked those Tipper Gore labels that turn up now and again on CD cases: "explicit content," they say. They seem to imply that the content of music is consistent (that all music is about sex, basically) and that the artist's limited freedom is in choosing to address it implicitly or explicitly. The Curious Sofa (or, say, Sam Cooke) is a good example of implicit content: work that, for the most part, remains unfairly undistinguished by a warning label.
Almost as touching as an enthusiastic sore, bizarre horror and adult context are the topics that melts with the author's perturbed mind. And what I enjoyed the most about this short tale, maybe too short, was the meaning of every plot twist was left to the reader's imagination; in wich mine was nothing but a dreadful acknowledgement about (and this might be just my filthy and warped mind) the approaching end of Sir Egbert's party. Droll.
Edward Gorey's work never sucks. Never, ever, ever. Not even that one piece which was totally random and entirely in black and white. I obviously can't speak for any unpublished works...let's try it this way:1-Gorey wrote THE CURIOUS SOFA, and it's been published. 2-Gorey's published work never sucks.3-Therefore, THE CURIOUS SOFA did not suck.(seriously, guys, it's cool and creepy and fun...check it out)
