https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682135.Sweet_Revenge
While it needs to be acknowledged that atrocities have been committed against women overseas in the name of Islam, it also needs to be acknowledged that such practices have no basis in the religion itself.
More than 1400 years ago Islam afforded women rights comparable to those in our contemporary international human rights documents.
It is not Islam but other factors, notably cultural practices alien to the religion itself, which are the cause of the mistreatment of women.
They assure us that the harsh treatment of women in Islamic countries is the result of the culture and not of the religion of Islam.
toda a ideia em torno da fuga daquele mundo acaba por levar ao crescimento de uma Princesa Adrianne que só pensa em vingar-se do pai a todo o custo e para isso treina durante uma década até aperfeiçoar o golpe final, roubar o colar que é por direito da mãe "O Sol e a Lua" do cofre do pai!Não contava com o facto de Phillip ligado a Interpol se colocar no caminho dela e formarem uma parceria tão real (view spoiler)[como o casamento forjado (ou não) que arranjam em Jaquir (hide spoiler)] para poderem dar esse golpe, gostei de Phillip, foi um verdadeiro "Noro" como já não lia há algum tempo na Nora e teve a paciência par desvendar o coração duro desta mulher que nunca confiou em homens!
Wasn't really sure what to expect, as she seems to be a very prolific writer in several different genres, but it was an emotional and interesting read, even if I got pretty angry (on behalf of the heroine and her mother) at times.
(All the same, I was feeling pretty grateful to have been born a woman in the West after reading this!
I guess that's my own cultural bias speaking!)The relationship between Adrianne and Phillip was a tad problematic for me, too, as he came across quite Alpha at times, and I wasn't sure how that was going to be a good thing.
I wasn't sure how I was going to like this story since it started with a mother who has gave up everything to be with a man she thought love her but when your a woman in an Arabic country, things aren't as what you may think.
When Phibbe decided to take her eight year old daughter, Adrianne, away from the same life that she did and went back home to the States things went downhill.
So much happens in this book.
Another well written book by Nora Roberts.
Re-Read for a challenge: 12/3/18 Still an enjoyable book.
La pluma de Roberts me reconforta, me ha gustado taaanto!
Style and LanguageThere are only a few books by Nora Roberts that deserve to be called “excellent novel”. Sweet Revenge is one of them. The plot is haunting, the figures are exiting and the authors writing style simply said brilliant. Over two lines of action shows Nora Roberts how Adriannes life at the palace was and how her mother’s decision changed it and in the other the life of Philip. He is a thief and specialized when it comes to jewels and diamonds. Both of them have one thing in common:
Over two lines of action shows Nora Roberts how Adrianne´s life at the palace was and how her mother’s decision changed it and in the other the life of Philip.
How they do it, and what they have to do to achieve their goal shows Nora Roberts in a wonderful sensitive way.
Or the scene, where Philip talks to the king – WOW!!!
Ok, I´m not that much into religion, but the one Nora Roberts used in this novel is on one hand a good choice to bring some Opposites not only to the figures, but also the plot.
The essence of this book summarized in one sentence: Adrienne was angry that her father abused her mother, then she went and fell in love with a man who thought he's better than her and wanted to control everything about her life. So many pet peeves, so little time (to list them all)...I hate Philip. I absolutely  hate  him. If it's in the author's intention to make me hate him, then good job. I read the second half of the book grinding my teeth every time Philip showed up on screen which, unfor
The essence of this book summarized in one sentence: Adrienne was angry that her father abused her mother, then she went and fell in love with a man who thought he's better than her and wanted to control everything about her life.
He's an infuriating, self-serving, egotistical, forceful, no good male...man that I hope would never meet in real life.What I learned from this book: (view spoiler)[ a man's penis is the cure to traumatic past about rape, because upon realizing that Adrienne was afraid of rape, Philip proceeded to "cure" her by manipulating her into having sex with him.
after reading this book,im glad i dont live in a place like Jaquir.
women have no rights, and they dont do anything.
*WARNING..CONTAINTS SPOLERS*** anyway...im glad for Addy.
her dad was cruel, and he hated her just becase she was half american.
he thought Addy was a punishment for marrying the American actress, Phoebe.
im glad that Phillip punched him....he deserved that and much more!i feel sorry for Phoebe, she died a little each day she stayed with him.
the only reason she did not run away was because of her daughter, Addy.
then im happy for Addy and Phillip, they are made for each other.
Nora Roberts não desilude!
An absolutely brilliant book, a little sad, but well worth reading.
This book was sitting on my shelves for so long, I completely forgot I ever bought it.
Have I known earlier that this book would make me love it so much, I would have devoured it in one sitting.This is also the first ever Nora Roberts book I ever read, and I have to say, I completely loved it.
And reading this book made me so thankful I was born in the States rather than in the middle east.
And because I loved this book so much, I would sure be picking up more Nora Robert's books in the very near future ♥
One of her best stand-alone books. I read this many years ago and just got around to rereading it. I had forgotten how great the story is. I love how everything came together. Great book!
She eventually succumbed to her demons,as Adrianne was trying all that she could to bring her mother back to whom she used to be: a wholesome and happy woman.This is when Adrianne decides she wants revenge, and she wants it bad.At age 25, Adrianne is a master thief, stealing jewels to benefit causes she believes in.She started at age sixteen, as a means of covering payments for her mother's treatments in and out of rehab.
Law says that The Sun and The Moon (worth millions) is rightfully Phoebe's, but Abdu refuses to give it to her and watches from afar as Adrienne and Phoebe barely make ends meet.Adrianne's burning desire is to retrieve the fabled necklace for her mother.
Enter Philip Chamberlain the man who will catch Adrianne in more than one ways and gets pulled into her web of revenge.When I first read this book eons ago, Rita Heyworth was my mental model for Phoebe Spring.
The whole beginning of the book detailing Phoebe's fall from glittering star to neglected, abused wife is quite sad.
Then when the book takes us to Phillip we also find motives, we find the reason he stole, his mother, to get her out of the hell hole they lived in, to the hell hole she let her life become just so she could have him, even if his father was scum.
One of my favorite scenes is the one when a teenage Addy looses track of the beach ball and adult Phillip (given that he is aprox.10 years older than she) gives it to her...it's a moment of "little did they know"...and I love "little did he/she/they know".
I also love the scene where Addy breaks into Phillips room, because there the phrase "it take thief to catch a thief" makes so much sense.
Uma excelente surpresa, peguei neste livro com relutância, já que é um livro muito antigo da autora.Para quem gostou de A Dama Negra e Jogo de Mãos, vai de certeza gostar deste livro tb, admito que dos 3 três, Tudo o Que ficou para Trás, foi o que mais gostei... :)
It's a romance about thieves. Of course I like it.
♥♥♥
No início esta história vivemos as angustias de Phoebe, que sofrendo tanto às mãos do marido que tanto amou e por quem abdicou de tudo, consegue fugir com a sua filha Adrianne para o seu mundo novamente.
Contudo nada será igual ao que era dantes e por isso, mesmo após conseguir uma vida facilitada e luxuosa à primeira vista, a princesa Adrianne não esquece que o seu pai fez e não esquece principalmente a vingança que tem vindo a preparar ao longo dos anos.
Estas simples frases e a simples sinopse não revelam o que este livro é, quem Adrianne é.
I've read Nora Roberts novels for many years.
I tried to read Blood Brothers but it was too much like Dreamcatcher by Stephen King.
I don't mind movies by Stephen King, especially since the visuals of his imaginations are easier to grasp than his writings.
A Hollywood movie star marries a Muslim King who is brutal and she escapes with her daughter to the US, only to die a broken woman.
Her daughter, Adrienne, plans her revenge against the Muslim King for decades as she builds her career as a philanthropist.
Ich dachte ziemlich lange Zeit, dass Nora Roberts Krimis schreibt, allerdings stand auf dem Buchrücken "Nora Roberts - unbestritten die Königin des Liebesromans" - okay?
Anfangs habe ich mich sehr schwer getan, weil die ersten 200 Seiten eher so eine Art "Vorgeschichte" zu der eigentlichen Geschichte sind.
Letztendlich habe ich dem Buch 3,5 Sterne gegeben, da ich das Buch nicht schlecht fand.
Für die 4 Sterne hat es dann aber nicht gereicht, weil 4 Sterne für mich bedeuten, dass ich das Buch noch mal lesen würde, das werde ich aber zu 90% nicht.
Tenho lido alguns livros da Nora Roberts e nunca fico decepcionada.
Depois de ter lido "Começar de Novo", fiquei com grandes expectativas em relação a este novo livro lançado pela Chá das Cinco (Saída de Emergência).
No entanto, tenho de admitir que os primeiros capítulos, para além de me provocarem um ódio imenso por uma das personagens, não me *agarraram* desde o início.
O livro começa por nos dar a conhecer um pouco de Philip Chamberlain.
Tendo sido um ladrão de extrema perícia, é mais que normal e natural que seja Philip o mais indicado para tentar descobrir quem é o Sombra e onde ele está.Opinião Completa em: http://sinfoniadoslivros.blogspot.pt/...
Un poco de romance para el día a día.Me gustan los libros de romance de esta autora porque casi siempre están enfocados a una carrera y le da importancia a esta fasceta de los personajes.En esta ocasión tenemos a dos ladrones de piedras, así como una parte de la trama que se desarrolla dentro de un harém.
Como cuando mi madre y sus amigas cuando eran jóvenes veían las joyas y compraban a plazos juegos completos.Creo que tengo perdida esa parte en mi vida.
The cadre and adult-centered child rearing sounds practical and do-able.
It makes me believe that I could hypothetically raise children guilt-free, without feeling I'm doing it "wrong", but somehow I get the feeling that raising kids the French way is practical if you are actually in France: if nurseries or day-cares are only for a few hours in your area, or are not focused on teaching children how to be better people, and if the kids are not fed a variety of healthy fresh food, then I don't think it would work as well.
Still, it is great food for thought
I found this book amongst my mother's books. I figured it would be one of those trashy romance novels that she likes to read, but I decided to try it out anyway. I read the first couple of pages, and I soon found that I couldn't put it down. The book had just the right amount of romance, as well as other components that keep me reading. There were plenty of twists and turns, and kept me on the edge of my seat to find out what was going to happen next.
Quite an education from a women's POV of being raised as Muslim royalty...obviously drama...but the restrictions and boredom are very real in some places. Three parts....young, royal, traumatized and saddened, part 2 The cycle changes with death and a desire for revenge. Part 3 a partner, an equal...and sweet revenge. The thefts were very entertaining and had some great unexpected moments. Loved Phil, couldn't have picked a better mate for Addy.
I love Nora Roberts books and Sweet Revenge was no exception. Written a few decades ago, this book examines topics that people would likely shy away from now. Featuring a strong, female lead, the novel shows the oppression of women and how it can be overcome. At times heartbreaking, this story is a beautiful one of redemption, learning to love, and seeking revenge in a tasteful way. I could barely put it down because I wanted to see what happened next!
While there were elements of the typical icky romance, this novel also included some elements of (fictional) political maneuvering and hypothetical thievery. It was kind of fun, and raised the question of whether or not the end justifies the means. Is a thief who donates the profits of their work to charity just a thief, or an open-minded philanthropist? Etc., etc. So while this book is somewhat vapid, it also has some redeeming qualities.
At best this book was ok. I got it as a birthday present so i promised to read it( I never was much into Norha Roberts). I don't know why but i felt like i had to suffer to get my way through it and finally gave up. I gave it a chance and it bored the hell out of me. I've read much better. I don't really plan on reading her again anytime soon.
Great! I couldn't put it down!I love this book. I believe Nora does a fantastic job with the cultural settings. It was fast paced and i feel in love and hate with the characters. I recommend this book to anyone looking for a good summer read.
