https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43545.The_Once_and_Future_King
He sometimes appears to mock them and their ways (oh, especially those blundering old knights...), other times he pities them, but mostly, I felt as though he was trying to understand them and why they made the choices they did.The book is, to me, chiefly three different things.First, it is a "historical" study of England at the time, which is both interesting and confusing, with many Lords and Kings and battles etc.
I must admit however, that as soon as the "Sword in the Stone" section of the book is over, the story was completely depressing, in every way imaginable.
Seriously, how do you review the pinnacle of all fantasy? You can argue with me, but that, in my opinion, is what The Once and Future King is. Sure, the evil enchantresses are stout and grumpy, the magical castles are made out of food, the lily maids are fat and of a certain age, and the knights in shining armor refer to one another as ‘old chap’s. Oh and did I mention that King Arthur’s nickname is ‘the Wart’? Somehow, T.H. White takes the legend, undresses it, and gives it a new kind of dignit
You can argue with me, but that, in my opinion, is what The Once and Future King is.
Oh and did I mention that King Arthur’s nickname is ‘the Wart’?
Somehow, T.H. White takes the legend, undresses it, and gives it a new kind of dignity.
Fantastical happenstance takes secondary place to human emotions and actions, noble, selfish, and ridiculous.
To some the novel- subdivided into four books- may seem big and slow-moving.
But it is not a book to read in a day; nor should it be, since it concerns entire lives, whole worlds, both real and imaginary.
In case anyone is wondering: I picked this book up for a re-read because of one throwaway line in  Why Be Happy When You Could Be Normal .
I haven't read this since high school, but I remember loving it almost giddily as a tween.
Since it's a big monster of a book, I took a steak knife to it, as I often do, and cut it in half so I could carry it about and read it on the subway without breaking my back.
Here's the new cover I put on my DIY'd "vol 2," from Vice magazine.
I find it creepy & rather fitting:Anyway, I have been reading this for days and days and days and days and days—exactly a month, it turns out (thanks for keeping track, Goodreads!), which is about four times longer than it takes me to read most books.
I remembered it only sketchily from high school, mostly only the first book, much of which is retold in the Disney movie The Sword in the Stone: Arthur as a boy being turned into a fish and a bird, scampering about learning lessons from comical genius klutz Merlin, who is always knitting his beard into his scarf.
And you had to give without wanting to get.” ― T.H. White, The Once and Future KingI loved it and my two brats (11 & 13) absolutely enjoyed it, even if many of the jokes, the funky anachronistic blending of the Medieval with the Modern, might have floated a bit over their tiny wee heads.Anyway, I think White perfectly captured the magic, power, fears and the joy of both youth and myth with this retelling of early Arthurian legend.
This change captures/mirrors the dynamic of Lancelot's own story (the vacillation between the physical and spiritual).Finally, the weight of the conspiracies, the betrayals, the killings, and the expulsions are all there pushing against the King (I love when T.H. White calls Arthur - England) and his faith in man and justice.
In my original version of the book, it is on page 111 and begins, "The best thing for being sad," replied Merlin, beginning to puff and blow, "is to learn something.
You may grow old and trembling in your anatomies, you may lie awake at night listening to the disorder of your veins, you may miss your only love, you may see the world about you devastated by evil lunatics, or know your honour trampled in the sewers of baser minds.
Look what a lot of things there are to learn." Another quote reads: "You see, one gets confused with Time, when it is like that.
I love how the first 1/3 of this story is basically that Disney cartoon of the Sword in the Stone. I had no idea they followed the book so closely!Also, I need this in my life:
By the end of the semester I was sick of King Arthur, the round table, the Holy Grail and knights in general; as a consequence, I didn’t bother reading this book until now.
The latter books deal with Lancelot and Guenever, Arthur’s desire to bring a civilized society to England, the quest for the Holy Grail and the round table’s demise.As the book goes through each tonal shift, White maintains a very contemporary voice (with modern day references and allusions) throughout.
From Geoffrey of Monmouth (1*) to Thomas Malory (2*) to Alfred Lord Tennyson (3*) to T.H. White (4*) to Lerner & Lowe (5*) ... 1* Historia Regum Britanniae (History of the Kings of Britain), 1130s. 2* La Morte d'Arthur, 14853* Idylls of the King, 1859-854* The Once and Future King, 1938-415* Camelot, 1960 Broadway!! The big time!!!1) See here for the association of the musical Camelot with the Kennedy Administration.2) Here's an extended quote from the first page of the book, to indicate th
The Wart was called the Wart because it more or less rhymed with Art, which was short for his real name ...In the afternoons the programme was: Monday and Friday, tilting and horsemanship; Tuesdays, hawking; Wednesdays, fencing; Thursdays, archery; Saturdays, the theory of chivalry, with the proper measures to be blown on all occasions, terminology of the chase and hunting etiquette.=========================================This was one of the best books I read in my early college years.The overly-"Madison Ave." cover is an advertisement for (and/or playing off the popularity/fame of) the Lerner & Loewe musical Camelot, whose original run on Broadway opened on December 3, 1960 and closed on January 5, 1963 (873 performances).
While the story begins with The Sword in the Stone, a novel I had already read years ago it was refreshing to re-familiarize myself with T.H. White's eccentric and unique style of portraying the character of King Arthur as a child.
He was in part able to both tell the tale and provide a join critique and analysis of the legend.
However T.H.White's work has a greater depth than any other Arthurian tale I have read and it is for that it is to be admired.
The four parts are:• The Sword in the Stone• The Queen of Air and Darkness*• The Ill-Made Knight• The Candle in the WindI usually try to avoid reading a book’s synopsis first before reading it so initially I was surprised the protagonist of the first part The Sword in the Stone turns out to be some kid called “The Wart” instead of Arthur, Merlyn is of course instantly recognizable even with the “y” instead of the “i” in his name.
Tonally The Ill-Made Knight  is much more mature than the previous two parts of The Once and Future King and I was finally really digging the book at this point.
This is the best book I have ever read.
My other 5-star-ratings pale in comparison to this big wonder of a book.
Hors categorie.A fantasy classic?
It's about everything that matters in life, told in the warm voice of a brilliant and gifted author.
Humor, adventure, suspense, tragedy, poetry, romance, philosophy, history, faith, sociology, tradition, fantasy, the list goes on and on.
It contains everything.A page-turner.
More than 600 pages?
But not 'too short', for they will have left a mark.This book is a friend.
Possibly, probably, for life.
This book is perfect in every way, apart from the problem it presents me with now: What to read next?
The main thing lacking from the movie, which is quite important in the novel, is that Merlin is teaching Arthur (Wart) about the ways of humanity, civilization, and society, so that when he becomes the King he will not just continue with things as they have been, but learn to reason and think for himself, to try his best to make the world a better place.
The irony in this book is how Arthur's own new system of "justice" is used against him bring to light (publicly) the affair between Lancelot and Guenever.This novel is a wonderful exploration of humanity, society, and civilization, and a beautiful fairy tale tragedy.
But I think it’s a story about a person who tries to build something new, something great and lovely and filled with possibility, and then it is a story about the thousand myriad ways in which such an attempt can crack, and teeter, and fail.
But one of the loveliest things about The Once and Future King, and the part that will make me love it forever, is the fact that that despite all this sadness it’s never cynical.
It’s an almost painfully human story, and it offers kindness and the possibility of understanding to all of its characters.
The Once and Future King is at the same time a very classical and completely unique retelling of the Arthurian legend, but it unfortunately falls short of almost all the others.On one side it's an interesting attempt at reforging the legend to something not quite set in time and place, and a fascinating mix of Medieval English myths.
On the other there are many aspects of the style that ranged from slightly annoying to deeply flawed.Firstly, the book is written too much like a fairytale for my taste.
White has adapted Sir Thomas Malory’s Morte de Arthur for modern audiences in this tome, divided into four books:The Sword in the Stone, which chronicles Arthur’s childhood in Ector’s castle and his tutelage by MerlynThe Queen of Air and Darkness, which follows the war between the newly-crowned Arthur and King Lot of Orkney from the perspective of Lot’s four young sons: Gawaine, Gaheris, Agravaine, and Gareth.
I knew enough about the King Arthur mythology through cinematic adaptations I've seen growing up, but this is the first time that I ever read a novel about this legendary hero, and I thought T.H White's classic masterpiece The Once and Future King is the best place to start as any, considering the raving reviews I've encountered about this one every time I browse the medieval literature section in book-related websites. I was also drawn to this book because of this quotation taken from it:  'Per
I knew enough about the King Arthur mythology through cinematic adaptations I've seen growing up, but this is the first time that I ever read a novel about this legendary hero, and I thought T.H White's classic masterpiece The Once and Future King is the best place to start as any, considering the raving reviews I've encountered about this one every time I browse the medieval literature section in book-related websites.
In this segment, there are noteworthy discussions about "Right" and "Might" between Arthur and Merlyn and his old friend and mentor continues to challenge him to think about every decision he makes as a king and the purpose and motivation behind every course of action he will take.
Because all great works of art are connected I had to read the book.
I didn't even know it was about King Arthur and his knights until I found it on Amazon.com.Like most people I was familiar with the characters and parts of the plot.
Merlyn becomes Wart's tutor and teaches by turning the boy into all manner of animals.
It is all of these characters, including Arthur himself, who ultimately bring about the downfall of Camelot.The final section, titled The Candle in the Wind, brings everything to its inevitable conclusion.
"But Arthur’s grave is nowhere seen, whence antiquity of fables still claims that he will return." - William of Malmesbury He shall return...  “If people reach perfection they vanish, you know.”  Alongside....  “We cannot build the future by avenging the past.”  And.....  "Further back, there were times when we wondered with all our souls what the world was, what love was, what we were ourselves.”  And...  “Now, in their love, which was stronger, there were the seeds of hatred and fear and conf
"But Arthur’s grave is nowhere seen, whence antiquity of fables still claims that he will return."
- William of Malmesbury He shall return...
“If people reach perfection they vanish, you know.” 
“Now, in their love, which was stronger, there were the seeds of hatred and fear and confusion growing at the same time: for love can exist with hatred, each preying on the other, and this is what gives it its greatest fury.” 
“The bravest people are the ones who don’t mind looking like cowards.” 
I say so, so it better happen.
It will not happen for hundreds of years, but both of us are to come back.” 
But do return with more historical accuracy than this novel.
The ONE book I'd take to the island. I would chop off a finger to have written this book!
Many of the characters act irrationally and are very inconsistent making it even harder to understand or like them.Lancelot is an awful characters, he regularly kills and injures others for little or no reason, goes to great lengths to cover up his affair with the queen and generally acts very deceitfully.
Despite all this most other characters think Lancelot is the best knight ever and the knight who got the broken arm is in the wrong because he should have died fighting!The Lancelot and Queens affair is horribly written with no warmth to it, they spend most of the time behaving like a mixture spoiled children and a bitter old couple.
Confession: I had assigned this to 6 of my children to read but had never read it myself.
Now I am thinking perhaps it should be read a little later than 7th grade.
I am not sure a seventh grader can grasp the glory of it.
What a book or maybe I should say what five books!!
The Sword in the Stone: Delightful.
The Book of Merlin: Ridiculously thoughtful.
Arthur, the story of every good man or woman.
I have lived that story.
T H White has lived it, and probably you have too.
This is a full five-star book.
But it's strangely paced and the work's tone follows this odd arc across its four books that put me off.The first book, "The Sword in the Stone," follows Arthur's childhood, and it's dippy, whimsical, and laden with fantasy.
The third book turns its focus to Sir Lancelot's rise to prominence, and by the fourth book there is no humor at all and the tone is utterly tragic as it recounts the star-crossed love triangle between King Arthur, Sir Lancelot, and Queen Guenever.
I also didn't like how the first book about Arthur's childhood had a tone that was so discordant with the rest of things.
I don't even KNOW what, that just reading makes me feel like White just concentrated all the wisdom and wit in the universe into some kind of literary laser-beam and used it to cut away at curtain of reality just a teensy bit, then pulled it back to expose some sort of deep, eternal truth about the human condition.
And it made me think that maybe I should try too, every once in a while.If anyone is actually reading this, I assure you that this is by far the most earnest thing I will ever write.
After two World Wars, things weren't looking too bright around Europe and that outlook colors EVERYTHING that was written at the time.
In fact, this reminds me strongly of C.S. Lewis, of The Lord of the Rings, of every book in which writers tried to reconcile the horror of the recent past with the hope for the future.Example:"The best thing for being sad," replied Merlyn..."is to learn something.
This is one of those books that demands to be re-read.
Alcuni di questi parlano di un solo personaggio, di un ristretto periodo storico, di una sola giornata, eppure riescono lo stesso a darci un’immagine nitida, un’analisi profonda e completa del modo in cui si sviluppano e incidono sul nostro vissuto le relazioni umane, tanto da assumere un valore universale.I romanzi-mondo rappresentano i rari casi in cui un prodotto narrativo supera i limiti della ricostruzione letteraria di una vicenda, della vita dei personaggi e della cornice storica in cui si svolgono perché racchiudono emblematicamente, o anche metaforicamente, l’universo delle esperienze che possiamo avere su questa terra.
(If there is such a thing as a "modern" view of Arthur, it would probably be the historical view that tries to place him the actual historical-cultural setting of his time, an approach exemplified in Catherine Christian's The Pendragon, a novel I'd also heartily recommend --but to fans of historical fiction, not of fantasy!)White takes as his stating point Sir Thomas Malory's Morte de Arthur, the apex of the high-medieval reworking of the legend, with its importation of armored knights and chivalry into the story, and its transformation of 6th-century Britain into a magic-infused fantasy world.
Loved this book so, so much.
Wish the world could read it, if just once.
It's quite difficult not to be stirred by it; the narration welcomes you, like an old friend with a warm blanket and cup of tea.
It has a quiet, very human dignity to it - a story as old as Arthur's needs such humanity in order to resonate and be remembered, and White succeeds.
Lancelot and Guenevere, too, were brilliant and foolish and lovely.
The very last chapter broke me, and was the perfect culmination of everything the book is - wonderful and sad, bittersweet and hopeful.It's not a book that should be read in one sitting (or even just once).
Sir Lancelot is one of my new favorites, a desperately broken man who despite being the best knight in the world, constantly feels inadequate and inherently bad.
All through his life—even when he was a great man with the world at his feet—he was to feel this gap: something at the bottom of his heart of which he was aware, and ashamed, but which he did not understand."He is a conflicted, interesting, real person and his relationship with Arthur and Guinevere, who are both conflicted and interesting in their own ways, is what kept me engaged to the very end.
Easily the most enjoyable book I've ever read, with Watership Down putting in a strong second-place finish.
Certainly the best ever in telling, and spinning anew, the centuries old Arthurian legend.
Gone are the old stories relayed in stark and monotonous detail, replaced by characters bursting with vitality.The story benefits greatly from White's knowledge of medieval culture, Thomas Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur (review here), whose influence is credited directly in The Book of Merlyn, occasionally affected and quirky dialogue, infrequent intrusions of contemporary fact (the 1950s, both from White and Merlin's perspective), and fascinating observations on human nature.
In all fairness I'm sort of sick of the re-re-retelling of the Arthurian Legend.
I couldn't get through this without some skimming.
This one while older and loved by many is (in my opinion) fairly simplistic and packed to the gills with "slightly under the surface" political clap-trap aimed at kids.If you hunger for the story of Arthur there are better, even if Disney didn't use them as the source of a movie.
Try Mallory, or one of the hundreds of other re-tellings out there on the shelves told from every point of view except possibly that of King Arthur's horse....and for all I know there's one of those.
