https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109713.City_of_Night
The book is filled with moments that perfectly capture the alienated gay culture of the 60s in an at times shocking way.
In addition to the sullen and often mellow persona of John's personality, there are also moments punctuated here where drag queens just bring it ON.
Colorful personalities bloom everywhere around him.
This is more streamlined than Kerouac's work, and though both shared a love for the scope of the American road and cityscapes, this is a memorable book for being one of the first to openly depict the often over or underlooked gay scene that was so consistently marginalized.
I just saw in the NYTimes that Grove is putting out the 50th anniversary edition - my heart stopped for just a second, and even as I'm writing this my stomach has that forbidden fruit feeling of something thrilling and frightening this way coming.
I saw the American dream as a klieg-lit freak show, and wanted nothing more than the shadows.
I don't know how this book holds up, but it gets its five stars for the impact it had on me way back then.
Amazingly overdone. It's one of those books that I read really, really slowly just because I didn't want it to be over. Emotionally I think it touched on a lot of stuff I related to (and haven't read about before), to the point where I was willing--happy, even--to overlook things like the description of a hot dog cart as a relic from Hell.
CITY OF NIGHT is what you get when you cross headlong, Beat Generation writing with a young man's emerging sense of self as gay -- and it's a shocking and wonderful meld indeed.
This 1963 novel stunned readers when it first appeared: the narrator whose father's friends demanded he "give them a thousand," his youth as a hustler, the lurking, intense romanticism of various American "entertainment districts." The novel combines an understanding not only of the insistent drumbeats of gay sexuality and male emotion but also the orange-drink-and-popcorn-scented center of the seediest American cities, ca.
For a young gay man, and occasional trick turner, it was a book that spoke to my experience in a world that did not want me to be.
During a Mardi Gras celebration, the protagonist (we never know his name) leaps on to a float carrying a beautiful young drag queen (Kathy, and her hustler lover (Jocko) and asks Kathy why she is smiling."Because I'm going to die", she says.I've never forgotten that particular moment in the book.
I was so young, then.One thing I did learn from the book (and from my own experiences) is that tricks and Johns need each other and yet are so often contemptuous of each other.This is a perfect book for those who have known only After Stonewall.
so you know I enjoyed it.
But there are those that like to give you that "I'm an artist and it's how I form my craft" line.
And you do NOT want to see how some of us form that art.
Gotta pick a side of the fence homey.
That being said, one very important note I'd like to bring attention to in this is that it is the first book I've ever read with the phrase "sunbleached pubic hair" in it...
But everyone wants a taste of that sinister life.
But work on that grammar homey.
This book should be required reading for anyone interested in 1950s/60s "underground culture" (for lack of a better term, or sort of the opposite of straight, white, heteronormative Mad Men). The book is about a mostly gay hustler who drifts through the major U.S. cities and in the process manages to dissect quite a few stereotypes that are still very pervasive on the gender/sexuality front and also manages to invent a new language to describe what feels like a new world. Lonely, punishing, and transcendent.
Though the endless rehashing of similar scenes got to be too much for me as a reader, I wondered if life is much better for gay persons in our present time.I can't really know because I am heterosexual and though I have gay friends there is a reticence between us when it comes to talking about sexual orientation.
Mostly, it took reading books.So I thank the writers who have opened their hearts and minds in their novels and memoirs, their essays and poetry.
Yet, I feel more comfortable with olives than I do with my fellow human beings whose sexual orientation is different from mine.In any case, City of Night was a wild, sometimes uncomfortable read that brought me more understanding of what is means to be human.
The language is the kind of language I always loved - the language I wish I could manipulate the same way Rechy does.
He can actually touch the words, feel them, weigh them, know their texture and taste.
I feel there are many we could have done without.
I loved the beginning and ending sequences and the sentence which ends this book is simply brilliant.
But at the end of the day, I think Rechy himself describes my feelings for this book in his last paragraphs: And what has been found?
A circle which winds around, without beginning, without end.
I read this because David Bowie cited it as one of his favorite books in an interview, and Bowie's got some good taste (did you know "Wham, bam, thank you mam" is a reference to a Charles Mingus song?) This book is basically a queer take on 'On the Road', featuring Rechy going around the big country hustling himself and writing about it in detail.
He's incredibly laid back and observational about the whole thing, whether he's trying to milk money off a rich client in Los Angeles or watching a drag queen kick the shit out of a heckler in New Orleans.
Someone's going to make a movie out of this one day.
This is one of those which will pick you up, spin you around, chew you up and spit you back out.I'm unsure how in my collection of gay literature canon I somehow glossed over this novel until now.
I'm glad that in this year's endeavor to "re-read my mothers" of gay literature a friend made me pick it up.
City of Night follows an unnamed hustler as he bounces through the queer underworlds of America's so-called "cities of night": New York, LA, San Francisco, Chicago, New Orleans.
Before there was "Midnight Cowboy" this classic came along about male prostitution that never sinks into sleaze. Forty five years ago John Rechy wrote about homosexuality with a compassion that America didn't have for gays. "City of Night" runs for almost 400 pages but you'll never get bored because it's so well written.
A book that feels both of its time and very much ahead of its time.


the search for self-acceptance in the hustler/queer/drag/street cultures of the 1950s in NYC, LA and New Orleans (fascinating, ranges from mildly to wildly depressing, points off for using "ineluctable" multiple times. no one should be allowed to use ineluctable more than once per manuscript, thank you for coming to my TED Talk
I actually finished this book months ago, but I never rated it because I wanted to write a comprehensive review and now it was so long ago that all i can say:1. It was amazing.
Too easy to tune out but I liked the early parts before tuning out
In fact, that can be the strongest kind of love...." JeremyIn City of Night we're thrown in the midst of the life of a male hustler who works NYC's Time Square, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, and New Orleans.
in my bar, I make those rules." Come to find out, when Sylvia learned that her son was gay, she kicked him out of the house - and now she's condemned to play a protective mother to all the characters associated to the scene.The book ends with our hero discovering Jeremy - another human who's as lonely as himself and wanting to connect with someone else.
Quasi un mese.
Questo libro di circa quattrocento pagine è stato mio compagno per quasi un mese ed ora lasciarlo mi è dura.
Le pagine sono così vive, così intense che non riuscivo a leggerne più di dieci alla volta: digerire ogni periodo richiedeva tempo ed io ho aspettato, ho tirato lunghi respiri, ho cercato di assorbire ogni parola che arrivava con una violenza inaspettata e sempre più forte della volta prima.
È un libro che spiazza ma si piazza nel cuore.
È un libro palpitante, un libro che pulsa in fretta e con furia e, per questo, un libro che travolge e sconvolge.
I have such complicated feelings about it, but i ultimately rated it four stars because even though it depressed the shit out of me by the time i finally made it to the end, i also found so much of it to be familiar in terms of the speech and behavior of the people in it.
But it's also so so so so fucking depressing, the way in which everyone in the book pretty much is a walking wounded tragedy, trying to exist in a culture that hates and demonizes them just for their sexuality and/or gender expression.
As the main character moves from El Paso to NYC, before taking in cities like LA, Dallas, Chicago and SF, we read stories about the 'dive bars', 'scores', 'queens' and 'hustlers' he encounters, some of these which are easier to follow than others.
I'm just thankful that the world has moved on in the way it has, and while no doubt the darker elements of the novel still probably exist, they're not the only option.All in all, not a particularly easy read, but an interesting one if you're into seeing the changes in both LGBT lifestyles and indeed LGBT fiction since the 1960s.
At its best when it is nightmarish, John Rechy's classic account of hustling in the occluded world of homosexuality in mid-century America makes a compelling case that sexual identity is a spectrum rather than points on a plane.
There are also at least two books here -- one an almost journalistic account of life in the bars and on the streets and another, much less satisfying overlay of drama and unconvincing introspection.
Two chapters at the end of the third book, one about the man who initiates our narrator into the world of S&M and one about a "talent contest" at a bar in Chicago, are among the best horror stories I've read lately.
Actually more like a 3.5 stars. (The droning psychobabble during the last fifth of the book really started to get on my nerves.)
Along "Dancer from the Dance" and "Faggots", this is in my opinion a gay masterpiece novel. Written in the pre-Stonewall of early 1960s, featuring strong, sympathetic characters from gay4pay hustlers, forlorn drag queens, self-absorbed elder gays, leather fetishists with an inclination towards Nazis, those affecting masculinity, those failing, and all of the above despairing for that which they don't have. Gay vernacular has remained surprisingly unchanged in the 50 years since. Strongly recommended.
I wanted to like this more than I actually did. Rechy does a beautiful - and I mean stunningly beautiful - job painting a vivid picture of the cities and the gay underground culture of the 1960's that the protagonist inhabited. But beyond that I found there to be so much psychobabble and pretension that the book was at times completely insufferable. I'm glad I read it since it's a gay classic, but would not read again.
It’s easy to see why this book was groundbreaking in 1963, but it’s difficult not to apply current values when reading it today. For example, characters we would understand as trans today are referred to in the book as “drag queens” and frequently misgendered. And the sex scenes seem relatively tame by today’s standards. But, the penultimate chapter has some very profound things to say about the gay male experience that certainly hold true today.
I thought it would be a quick read, like a pulp novel, but it is actually quite dense and took me longer to read a page than I normally do.
I enjoyed hearing the voices and stories of drag queens, hustlers, bar owners, married men, Hollywood hangers-on, and the like.
I particularly enjoyed the Los Angeles section (which was quite sizable) because that is where I live, and also because it had the most colorful characters, the hustlers and the drag queens.
The characters in New Orleans were pretty great too, but everything had to become nightmarish because that was the end of the novel.
This was a really hard book to get through, and I really struggled with it.
But I had a hard time with it, and it felt really dry.
It is a glimpse into what life was like during that time, but it seemed to drag on.
It also seemed really repetitive, and I'm sort of doubting why I took the time to finish the book.
It's definitely not the book for me, and it was a struggle for me to get through but I can see why it gets a lot of praise.

