https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/849799.Morris_the_Moose
داستان درباره ی گوزنیه که هر حیوون چهارپای دیگه ای که میبینه فک میکنه اونم گوزنه. متاسفانه مترجمان (به دلیلی نامعلوم!) تصمیم گرفتن «موس» رو ترجمه نکنن، و این کل داستان رو برای بچه بی معنی میکنه، مثلا موریس یه گاو میبینه و میگه «چه موس بامزه ای!»، موقع خوندن این تیکه به جای اینکه با قیافه ی خندان بچه مواجه بشید، با یه قیافه ی متعجب روبرو میشید که اصلا نفهمیده داستان چی هست :))
Morris was not a favourite of mine as a child but my youngest son enjoyed his stories.
The illustrations are cute, as are most from the '50s, Wiseman has a bit of Syd Hoff style to his animal people.
A cute story that has Morris the moose trying to convince a cow that he is a moose since they share many of the same features.
Upon asking a deer to solve their disagreement, the deer tells them they both are obviously deer and so on until the animals realize they can be the same and different at the same time.
My brother and I enjoyed reading the book; it was a humorous story.
Even though Brandon is young he was able to understand the moral the story was trying to explain.
I also was able to understand what the moral was behind the story.
Plot:All throughout the story Morris was trying to discover what kind of animals his friends were.
In the story Morris and his friends jump to conclusions on what type of animal they were based on what they knew and believed.
Kids at age level 3k through kindergarten would enjoy reading this book because the vocabulary used seemed easier.
My five-year-old read this on her own, and then brought it to read to me because she enjoyed it so much.
From Elijah: "Morris needs to be educated. And book was really funny. And Morris called a cow a moose."
This book was so funny and I loved Morris. I wanted to take him home as a pet lmao. But I enjoyed all the characters and the way the story was written. I read this story in elementary school and I still remember it that's just how good it was.
This book would be a great way to teach kids why you shouldn't try to label people based on what you yourself identify as. I do worry though that some comments would be difficult for children of multi-racial families.
My kids loved it! They were laughing throughout the book.
Silly & fun.7/25/18 Read with Julia.
11/28Fiction K-2ndThis Moose and his silly questions to the other animals were silly yet confusing that he would try to convince other animals they were Moose. Still cute though!
I was a big fan of Morris as a kid, but this is one the most boring and tedious I Can Read books I have read. My beginning reader zipped through it, but I don't think it made much of an impression on her either.
از کتابهای آموزش فلسفه برای کودکانخوب بود
Can all 4-legged creatures be the same? A fun re aloud for younger readers.
Wiseman, Bernard. Morris the Moose. New York, New York: Harper Collins Publishers, 1989.Genre: Picture book – Fiction This story is about a moose who hasn’t learned the differences between himself and other individuals. The tree characters all three cannot tell the difference either, they head out to find someone who can tell them the truth about who they are, on their way they stop for a drink of water where they see their selves through the reflection of the water and realize that they are in
New York, New York: Harper Collins Publishers, 1989.Genre: Picture book – Fiction	This story is about a moose who hasn’t learned the differences between himself and other individuals.
The tree characters all three cannot tell the difference either, they head out to find someone who can tell them the truth about who they are, on their way they stop for a drink of water where they see their selves through the reflection of the water and realize that they are in fact different from each other.This teaches children that just because objects may have the same physical features as another, that does not necessarily mean they are the same.
Teaches individualism, questioning when told that they are incorrect, and the idea of looking for a solution to a problem that they have been faced with.
This was a three book collection of stories about Morris the Moose.I'd read the first two before, so I was pleasantly surprised to find the third book one I hadn't heard of before.Morris goes to the CircusMorris befriends a bear named Boris who tells him about the circus.
Morris doesn't know what he is, so Boris takes him there.
When Morris hears who there are no moose in the circus, he wants to be in the circus.
Thus ensues ridiculous antics of moose trying different positions in the circus and horribly failing at all of them before becoming a clown and making everyone laugh.
Morris knows he is a moose and thinks everyone else is a moose also because they all look similar.
When Morris meets the cow the cow has a hard time trying to get Morris to understand they are different when they decide to ask someone else.
I used this book to do predictive reading with 2nd graders and by the time the horse came around I was able to cover all of the words on the page and they were able to accurately predict what the text said because it's repetitive.
My favorite part, as it was for the kids, was Morris' "MOOSE-take".
Morris called a cow a moose and they went to a deer and he said that Morris the Moose and the cow were a deer and all those three went to a horse and the horse said "Hey you horses what are those funny things on your head?". They went to the pond and they all noticed they didn't look like each other. Then they all said "You mean that (they are not the same thing as the other persons". Then the cow said "You made a mistake and the moose said "I did not, I made a MOOSEstake."

This book is a carefree and funny book! I enjoy how each animal thought the others were the same as their own, only because they each had four legs, a tail, and things on their heads. The book shows children to be accepting of each other's differences and to be open to making mistakes. Each character in the book made a mistake, but they all were OK with their mistakes in the end. The moose even says, "I made a MOOSEtake!"
Morris the Moose is funny and could use a little help when it comes to life. Any preschool age till about first grade would enjoy Morris' stories. There is very understandable vocabulary and words to be picked out easily. There are also plenty of opportunities to use your best "moose voice" to make your readers chuckle along with you. Would recommend.
Morris the Moose books are fun to read with your child (or have them read) His way of thinking is always backward from real life, and always funny. Nice for little guys to laugh and giggle along the story. In this one he comes across a cow and a deer and they all think they are each other...Morris thinks they are weird looking moose, the cow think they are all cows etc.
This book is very clever and it teachers students again about inclusion. It describes how a moose, a deer, and a horse are confuse each other for their own; a cow ends up being the one that shows the animals that they are different from one another. It teaches students that different people can live in harmony together.
Morris tries to make some general characteristic observations and he learns that another can look at the same thing and make completely different observations. We learn with Morris that we have to really think things through and look at the whole picture just not bits and pieces.
Its funny how he thinks everybody is a moose and how the deer thinks everybody is a deer. And the horse does. And I like how the horse says, "hi there you horses. What are those silly things on your head?"
This book is ok. I liked it. But I kind of didn't like it. Because at the end where it says that I did not make a mistake, I am a mistake. That is kind of bad. Because you are not always bad just because you did one bad thing.
We have had the Morris the Moose collection for quite a few years now and we continue to go back to them whenever the kids are in the mood for a good laugh. My son will laugh so hard while he reads these that he can't even breath. They are just good for a fun and silly time!
Very cute book. It's funny and children seem to like the story. This would be good to use maybe in a science class when talking about classifying animals. They may seem to be one thing, but really they are something else.
An okay "learning to read" book. A moose thinks a cow is a moose. He asks a deer, who assures the moose that the cow is a deer. The moose and the deer then ask a horse, who assures them all that the cow is a horse. And so on and so on.Okay illustrations.
Actually kind of funny.Morris insists everyone is a moose, and it's good for teaching differences with the animals and with ourselves and each other.I also got to show my students how big moose were (we were studying big/bigger/biggest) and they were so shocked they were like screaming.
I always liked this book as a child, though rereading it as an adult I'm not really sure why, but it still holds a special place in my heart.The illustrations are cute even if all of the animals but the cow are stupid, lol.
