https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74270.Luck_in_the_Shadows
I know most of you out there somewhat love to watch me suffer through crappy books and take perverse pleasure in reading my DNF reviews, but I can't do this anymore.
So. As I was saying, the only reason I chose to read this lovely book (and that's the disgustingly honest truth, cross the little heart that I don't have, hope to die, and all that crap) is because of the M/M thing.
This book killed me dead before the freaking romance stuff even begun!!!
That is just not done, Lynn Flewelling, that is just not done.Oh, did you want to know what this book was about?
LOve LOVE this book! It's a great adventure fantasy book in the old tradition of escaping baddies and looming dark magic. I love the relationships as well. There's a connection between 2 male characters that I believe may turn romantic in the subsequent books, but honestly, it's so great and subtle and TRUE to them that wherever it goes I will be into it, and I wouldn't label it "Gay" persay, like say Melisure (which I love as well). Definitely picking up books 2 and 3 in the trilogy, damn Kindle for not converting older books faster!
I have to admit, I'd never heard of her before, but the seminar she led with Ginn Hale, Astrid Amara and Marie Sexton made me interested in buying at least this book, the first in the Nightrunner series to see whether I liked her style of writing.Plot: Sixteen year old Alec of Kerry is a bit of a bad situation.
Next to Seregil, he comes across as a little slow witted, but that's not actually the case and as the book progresses so does the reader's understanding of his intelligence.
It has plenty of removed value, though.Enter Seregil, a noble, a spy, a lover of luxury, and a representative of a mysterious people with a tragic past.
Maybe it is because of the unrefined introduction: on the one hand we have an experienced and world-weary man, on the other an innocent adolescent who grew up in the wilderness almost unaware of life outside the backwaters he occasionally visited, And so, the sponsor needs to introduce this naive white lily to the complexities of the world (this goes on for many pages and ends up with awful poetry, also far too long).
Don’t get me wrong, I relish long fantasy series provided that there is enough to justify that many pages (Malazan, anyone?).
Different characters can also be the main voice at any point in the story, but Seregil and Alec are the most commonly used ones.
It ended on a cliffhanger (the 1st two books are linked I think) so I'll probably read the next one because I'm invested in the characters and I like the action scenes.It's one of those books that I'm glad I read for the experience, but I don't love it and it took me 6 days (not reading at all for 1 day) to finish which really pissed me off.
An excellent tale with an unconventional hero.
The man introduces himself as Seregil, a wandering bard who, like Alec, was in the wrong place at the wrong time.
Along the way, Seregil confesses to Alec that he actually is the spy the lord was looking for, and offers Alec a partnership of sorts.
The trio heads south for Skala, which is one of the Three Lands (Plenimar and Mycena are the other two), but soon after Micum leaves the party to investigate some suspicious activity back in the North, and Alec and Seregil continue on.
After I read the sequels, and then reread this one, I found myself falling in love with it.
There is no sex between them for the whole 400-plus pages of the book, and Alec has a memorable scene with a young woman who assumes he is already Seregil's lover: He denies it hotly, but makes no demur that such a thing is impossible.
In fact, shortly thereafter he and Seregil dash off to do more action/adventure stuff and Alec says nothing, does nothing differently, and continues to act like Seregil's young lover, just without losing his culture and religion-specific modesty.Honestly, that might put some m/m readers off, but I found it refreshing.
I like Flewelling's fantasy world for its unusual aspects, including Skala's matrilineal royal family and gender-blindness of their social contract.
If you've read any of my other reviews you know that I'm not fond of personal stories, interpersonal relationships and romance when it takes over a narrative.
When we reach "the big city" (Rhiminee) and we start filling in the Alec character/story there are so many slow scenes as to drive one to bed.
He's also a weirdly conscience stricken anti--hero at times doing the "moral thing" (usually when he's called on something...)By the way there is a sister series, Tamír Triad.
So, I realize this is one of those "murky" reviews...the problem is the book is the same way.
This all happens very fast in the start of the book so it's not a spoiler, but from that point onwards Seregil is drawn to Alec and wants him as a travelling companion and the two of them set off on some pretty big adventures...Character Development:I genuinely think that these characters felt real at times and particularly I found them relatable when discussing love and heartache and sexuality.
But it's also a brilliant, heartbursting adventure with magic, corruption, betrayal and dark secrets waiting to end the world as they know it.
Most of the details were relayed through stories told from Seregil to Alec, which was a clever way to do it, and left no weird, awkward interruptions from the author.Most of all I applauded and relished in a world of such diversity.
To read a book where these things are not gingerly approached and kept on the sidelines, but thrown directly in there, and done so expertly, without making the story about it.
Luck in the Shadows is about sixteen-year-old Alec of Kerry, who at the beginning of the book is taken prisoner for a crime he didn't commit.
Together they escape the prison and Seregil takes Alec under his wing as his apprentice.
However, things take a turn for the worse when Alec and Seregil find themselves caught in a nefarious deception unraveling within the rulers of their land.
I liked the romance between Alec and Seregil.
which I guess is the point of fantasy novels.Things I didn't like.
Maybe things take place later in the series (and I have heard it mostly happens off-page), but in this book?
I get that book one in a series - and a fantasy novel to boot - usually dedicates a lot of real estate to world building and providing context for the place and characters.
But what of Barien's and Phoroa's proven acts of high treason?
(Read: Scrub.) I hate that.Bottom-line: maybe this series holds promise but this book was too slow for me, the characters were meh, and the hypocrisy unacceptable.
DNF: 44%I....just...couldn't go on. It was just too boring for me...Read in December, 2016
anyways seregil í korit solun meringil bôkthersa literally owns my soul
liSTEn i HATE slowburn ok you all promised me ROMANCE and its tAKING SO LONG ill be reading book two asap
liSTEn i HATE slowburn ok you all promised me ROMANCE and it´s tAKING SO LONG i´ll be reading book two asap
I really liked it, but it was a little slow.
It wasn't always gripping, sometimes even quite predictable, but still enjoyable and amusing enough to keep me entertained.From time to time it lost me with all the strange names and places.
In fell in love with bim the first time he openend his mouth :D In a way he reminds me very much of Jack Harkness...
*coughs*What I loved most, however, were views about love and women.
And women are more than wombs on legs.
They can do anything they like without having to pretend to be men, without having to prove themselves in a special way.
Just the fifth time (and the first time in English language) in my history as a reader I will tackle the second book of a high fantasy series.Even for that alone Luck in the Shadows would deserve five stars!
The book is not a romance and contains plenty of plot and action that have nothing to do with sex.
We need more books like this - books with a range of sexual orientation and expression, books that contain gay men in a story that can still be enjoyed by anyone who is not a bigot.
Like many straight women, I enjoy stories with gay characters, but I prefer books that have an engaging plot that would stand on its own even without the romance, books that I can share with my boyfriend and see him enjoy.
Like I said, I'm glad these books were published.
The very first scene is in the prison followed by Seregil and Alec's escape.
None of it tells you how well this book is written.After the escape, Seregil and Alec become partners in whatever Seregil is into.
It is wonderful to see Alec's growth and the glimpses of a relationship these two will have.It is a shame that some might read romance and skip this book.
What didn't touch this plot was left for future stories.
Anyway, even with a bit of telling, a couple of too convenient and easy escapes and only a promise of romance, this is still a great first book in a series.
Don't get me wrong I still enjoy my fantasies and their heroes regardless the sex or age, but it seems that the subtle nuances of male attraction did the trick for this one.
The relationship developed completely naturally witch made it believable and relaxed.The plot as such was one of the classic fantasy ideas – a small group of people, in this case two on their way to save the world by navigating treacherous waters of scheming royalty.
The world building was sound, and there was enough action, but I found that the only thing standing in my way of completely enjoying the work was the writing.
I really enjoyed this book!
I'm not a huge high fantasy fan because I can find the pacing slow, but the world building and characters were really great in this one.
I love the concept of spies going on missions in a fantasy world.
Also, the main kingdom is ruled by a long line of queens, which is hella cool.
I'm all for a matriarchy.
I also appreciated that most of the society was accepting of different sexualities.
I sense a m/m romance brewing between the two main characters.
My only complaint, like I said, was that it was a little slow at times.
Amazing !!! RTC
This is like exactly the kind of fantasy I love. Character-based, somewhat hero's journey fantasy is like right up my alley, and this gave me that in spades. The relationship forming between Seregil and Alec is incredibly well-developed, and the auxiliary characters are fleshed out wonderfully, especially Nysander. The plot, one of rogues and politics, is interesting, albeit weirdly paced, although the pacing didn't bother me at all when reading it. I just loved this one so much!
One of the few that was pretty solid, with just an odd fluke or two.The recipe is simple, naive and utterly fun -Seregil, a gentleman cum rake with a secret identity, Alec, a confused country lad coming of age and getting ensnared in the twists and plots of the big city, romance the kind you rarely saw in them times but done without overdoing it, old magic, new magic, colorful characters of all sorts, a vivid background world that is both daunting and perilous and yet has a cozy feel.In the first book, we get to know Seregil and Alec as they become friends and lovers, against the background of the Oreska magic, the evil Plenimar, the noble Aurenfaie, and the corrupt Las Vegas of Skala - Rhiminee.
I decided it was time to either finish it or abandon and so I do the latter.
When the characters started singing some epic poems for a few pages I groaned and simply turn a few pages and it never happens to me.When I think about it, this kind of fantasy almost never works with me.
I mean these high, serious fantasy stories about the fate of the whole world with characters being epic from the start.
So maybe it's "it's not you, it's me" case, but I don't have time nor energy to fight with this book when so many better ones (hopefully) wait for me.
This book is good on its own, but I love it all the more because I've been so desperate for a new, good book, and the fact that it's a series only makes it more delicious.
Very "male adventure," but Flewelling makes some nice gender switches, particularly in the country of Skala.
Absolutely adore the gay/bi hero, though there's no consummation of who I hope is his love interest in this book.
My only complaint is that the end isn't one at all, but a lead in to the next book in the series, a device I hate.
So, read it, and love it, and have book two ready beside it.
At long last I have finished this audiobook. It is NOT an m/m romance, it is a young adult fantasy with two male lead characters. Possibly it heats up in subsequent books of the series but there is NO SEX in this book, not even a kiss! I did like the characters of Seregil and Alec but I completely lost the complicated plot, possibly because it was audio, sadly one cannot skim in audio either.. Funny how 'cockerel' and 'quay' are pronounced by the American narrator! I will NOT be completing the series.
1.5 starsI like none of the characters even though I agree that they aren't annoying or badly written, but I just can't get into them, nor the plot.But...but...but...just look at the book cover of the Japanese translation of this book!!! So gorgeous! https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4...
I originally read this book years ago and I remember really enjoying it - to the point that I've picked up the sequels over the years with an eye to reading them some day.
I don't know if I've read so many books since I've become jaded and cynical or if it hasn't aged well, but it didn't engross me quite the way it did originally and I really can't figure out why.
I'll probably go back to it sometime in the future - after all, I have 4 more books in the series to get through - and I hope I'll get more out of it.
