https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14256.High_Tide_in_Tucson
I try not to do this often, but in this case, the New York Times Book Review review on the back of my paperback edition, really says everything about these 25 essays by Barbara Kingsolver that you need to know:Kingsolver's essays should be savored like quiet afternoons with a friend. ...She speaks in a language rich with music and replete with good sense."Couldn't have said it better myself.An enormously honest and personal collection of essays. If you like any of Kingsolver's books, I'm sure you will enjoy this one.
Barbara Kingsolver is, of course an excellent writer; her fiction is beautiful.
The great thing about High Tide in Tuscon is actually getting a glimpse of what's inside this writer's head - the everyday things as well as the grand.
It's a pretty well rounded combination of essays that come across simply as "this is what I think now" or "this is what I've been thinking about lately" - in Kingsolver's voice, almost like glorified journal entries.
I guess that's what I like about this book; it's stories can be dense, but the style in which they're written is invitingly simple.
I like her ideas, and how she arrives at them.
This is the first of Kingsolver's books that I read, and it's still my favorite, albeit that it's a collection of non-fiction essays. Maybe part of the reason is that I was also living in Tucson when I read it, so the things she had to say about life in that part of Arizona resonated with me. Beyond that, though, I just love the way she uses words - she writes lyrically.
So when another of her books was on offer (through Reading Seals, my book discussion group, just to borrow) I grabbed it.
She took pieces she’d written for magazines and revised them, wrote a few more, and put them together in chapters ordered to be read as a book (i.e. front to back – acknowledging that some people don’t read books that way .
She says, in fact: “I once heard from a reader in Kansas that he always starts books in the middle – even novels!”)I enjoyed every single page of this book.
I really enjoyed this book. Like "Small Wonder" it was a book of essays, but less militantly environmental. My favorite of the essays was "Jabberwocky" where she discusses art as politics. As in her other books her use of language is phenomenal and the book provided excellent thoughts and quotes. I would definitely recommend this book.
This book of essays was perfect for our monthly library genre circle and it was a perfect match for me. Kingsolver covered all areas in which I have a great interest in; parenting, human rights, environment, and nature. Every story spoke to me, the words flowed so smoothly and with such great detail. I truly enjoyed this book and am looking forward to trying other Kingsolver works.
It's been a while since I read these essays, and it's time for me to read them again.
I remember, when I first read this book, it was on a horrible trip back to Cork, from San Francisco.
My father was in hospital, having suffered some kind of major neurological setback, one of many on the long decline to his death in late 2002.
Things were fairly touch and go, and there was a lot of waiting in hospital corridors.
I was enormously grateful for the sanity and calm of Kingsolver's writing - this book helped me through a difficult time.
I stole this from my mother-in-law about a year ago. Now I can finally give it back, but it's one of those that I liked so much that I'd rather just keep it. I haven't read anything by Kingsolver before so I have no idea how this compares to her other work, but it's a collection of shortish essays. Some are pretty funny, most are poignant, and all made me long for her writer's life. Time to get on that.
From the title essay: Embrace your own biology. Don't beat yourself up for acting like the human animal that you are.The rest of the essays: I laughed out loud more times than I can say, and I felt more connected to humanity as I read them. This is a book I go back to and re-read over and over because of that. I don't always agree with everything she says, but the essays always make me think and evaluate my own beliefs, biases, prejudices, actions.
I love love love Kingsolver, and I think I love this collection of nonfiction essays even better than any of her fiction. It's written in the style of Annie Dillard, as a layperson who is interested in observation of the natural world and then exploration of underlying scientific principles. It's a beautifully written book and I reread it every several years.
She writes for example that “It is human, to want the world to see us as we think we ought to be seen,” but she doesn’t ask why this is the case, why we care, and how this may relate to an inherent need for value and rank, and how these in turn might relate to our social (tribal) nature.
In this particular essay, Kingsolver explores the function of violence in art (or media in general), visual or literary.
"It turns out," writes Kingsolver about an inadvertant movie choice, "I'd rented the convincing illusion of helpless, attractive women being jeopardized, tortured, or dead, for no good reason I could think of after it was over." Pondering this, she concludes that violence in movies or video games (or various other formats) too often appears merely for its sensationalist effect, while in literature a writer has the ability to expand upon a violent scene to fully show its consequences.
Barbara Kingsolver was one of a few novelists I fell head-over-heels in love with as a pre-teen; that is, an AUTHOR I vowed to follow, instead of a book or series.
In coming to this collection of essays, released almost twenty years ago, I see her writer-wheels turning more visibly than ever.
THAT SAID, there are a few essays in this book that do nothing short of sing.
"Somebody's Baby" is my favorite so far, about the Kingsolver's all living in the Canary Islands for a year, and realizing what it means to live in a place that, as a social, political, and economical rule, likes kids.
What this book allows for those fans is a real glimpse into her life and her thoughts on things from raising a hermit crab to politics to the environment.
(She was a biology major in school.) What I really like is that she doesn't preach she just says what she thinks and really it all makes a lot of sense.
Her writing is down to earth and her essay about getting letters from fans made me want to write to her since she says she reads everything she gets whether people think it is a blessing or a curse.
To build self esteem and self respect is what is most important, along with teaching them that they are valuable, because only so can we bring fully developed and well equipped humans into a harsh world."Somebody's baby" talks about the difference in "tolerating" children here in the USA and how in other countries children are actually seen as blessings and how people interact with them in a completely nicer way and it is much more of a benevolent society for children.
Unless Barbara Kingsolver is psychic, she probably didn’t realize she was writing a book more timely for 2018 than 1995. These essay covers topics of motherhood, capitalism, patriotism and social media (before such a thing existed). She’s honest, vulnerable. And then there are lines like, “anyone can be president.” (I would not have believed this back then....)I specifically enjoyed her essays on art and writing, and they are worth revisiting.
I drank every second of this book in. It was so beautifully written and made so many eloquent points that resonated with my soul. Love love love loved it. Everyone go read it now. You don’t have to be a tucsonian to enjoy it, I promise. Go read it. ❤❤❤
I drank every second of this book in. It was so beautifully written and made so many eloquent points that resonated with my soul. Love love love loved it. Everyone go read it now. You don’t have to be a tucsonian to enjoy it, I promise. Go read it. ❤️❤️❤️
This was a lovely little collection that describes Kingsolver's early life and rocky adult path. It's realistic and she never sugarcoats or apologizes for her success as a writer, which is something I really enjoy since so many women writers are often bashful or shy about their abilities. Kingsolver owns them, and her flaws, and shows that it's okay to have both. I love her for this, and for her frankness about her divorce, her financial struggles and her ability to push on despite them.
No joke; that's what Barbara Kingsolver's writing is like.
So good, that I sometimes felt I couldn't digest all the beauty on the page.Despite the unparalleled writing - "Civil Disobedience at Breakfast" is the best piece on having children I've ever read - I didn't give this book 5 stars because the essays seem thrown together, with only thin, forced ties among them.
When I come to a new chapter, I either want to continue from the last, or start something new; the essays just couldn't decide which to do.
I'm ready to read more Kingsolver when I can handle another decadent, dessert-like book.
This was a fun read - it is interesting to see a personal side of someone you have only read in novels.
I especially liked this:"A novel works its magic by putting a reader inside another person's life.
The pace is as slow as life.
It's as detailed as life.
It requires you, the reader, to fill in an outline of words with vivid pictures drawn subconsciously from your own life, so that the story feels more personal than the sets designed by someone else and handed over via TV or movies."I was also jealous of her living in the Canary Islands.
Well, I love this author to begin with and she writes this collection of essays with such insight, humor and, surprisingly to me, scientific details.
The best thing is you don't have to read every one of the essays if you happen not to like or agree with the topic.
But her writing is the best.
She always gives me so much to think about, whether I agree with her or not.
Wow. But being on such a list as that is almost an honor for a child of the late 60s!!!!
This was the my first introduction to non-fiction essay reading and it's been a tough comparison for all subsequent books since then.
I have always loved Kingsolver's fiction, feeling like she was able to express character and imagery in such a way that I could actually hear, see, smell, touch, and taste it.
This collection of essays was that exact same experience of being present with her in the moment.
It probably helps that her idealogies resonant so well with my own - she can just express it more eloquently than I.I loved, loved, loved this book and have given it away as gifts on numerous ocassions.
This book of essays by Barbara Kingsolver is one of those wonderful books that you want to hang on to just in case you need some special inspiration or direction some day when you feel particularly challenged..
Topics have a wide range, covering nature, art, values and ethics, human nature, politics and travels.
She ponders the challenges of a two year old, the life of a hermit crab, and book tours and band tours.
Kingsolver gives her views on violence in movies and novels that was very intersting and her love of books and reading and how that led to her writing.
A collection of essays by biologist-turned-writer Barbara Kingsolver on a wide variety of subjects: some political, some about children and raising them, some about the lessons we can learn from the natural world and other cultures and points of view. There are stories about her treks through foreign lands like West Africa or the floor of the Haleakala volcano, and about writing itself. I think I enjoyed her style even more than the substance. There is a lot to learn here about the imaginative use of humor, image and metaphor.
Love this book of essays. She has a wonderful way with language and descriptive phrases that make me smile, like "I was stomping through life in my seven-league boots, entirely unaware of how my life was about to snag on a doorframe, sending me staggering backward, ..." These essays about life, being a writer, a child, a mother, a woman, a human observing nature, a white person visiting Native American lands, really made me think and consider. I want to re-read them in a little while.
I liked Kingsolver's fiction so much that I decided to venture into her nonfiction, too, and have been hooked on the personal essay ever since. Here's a collection of essays that are rooted in observation of the everyday life around her that explore topics sometimes at broader levels (as in cultural, societal, and political traits across the country) and sometimes at more specific, detailed levels (as in the essays that go back to her roots in biology).
I keep trying to like Kingsolver. So many people that I like and respect thing so highly of her. So I listened to this as an audiobook, hoping that her speaking voice would endear her to me. While some of her essays had some poignant parts, I found her even more self absorbed than I did before. I fear that I have grown accustomed to really disliking her overly flowery style. Sorry. I tried. That said, her essay about how American's really seem to hate children was spot on.
What a talented women Kingsolver is! Her writing in this book is moving and thought-provoking. So many different topics are covered by this collection of essays: child-rearing, environment, culture, nature, family, politics. Several essays contained passages or lines I want to keep to read again and again--very inspiring.
Excellent, excellent book of essays. Ranging from detailed observations of hermit crab behavior, conservation, politics, writing, family, and more. Barbara is a very well educated scientist and writer, and brings insightful observations to both. She's also very well-read, and researches her points thoroughly. I really enjoyed re-reading this book, and would recommend it to everyone.
What a great title. I love her voice and her sensibilities and her musings. Her fiction titles are good but not as enjoyable, somehow, as her essays. ( the something-wood Diaries about a missionary family and Prodigal Summer)Collection of essays
