https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1300801.Skylark_of_Valeron
This and its predecessors do, however, embody just about every flaw cynics and critics make about the science fiction genre: stultifying writing, alpha male heroes, weak willed damsels-in-distress, technobabble, showy technology and action in place of detail, depth, or meaning.
Science fiction would continue to be enamored with technology.
We still love a damsel and hero, though we generally like them to be a little more like us - complicated, flawed, hopeful.
However hokey Seaton et al might be today, the road map to our science fiction present is written in E.E. Doc Smith's Skylark of Valeron.
'Valeron' takes us more or less straight on from the end of the last volume, although we see the denouement from the perspective of Duquesne, who has captured a Fenachrone war-vessel and is hiding among their fleet.
While Seaton and his chums are racing off to pursue the final Fenachrone ship (which is attempting to flee to another galaxy) Duquesne returns to Earth and takes control of the planet.We then rejoin Seaton, Martin, Dorothy and Margaret as they continue their adventures.
Having destroyed the last of the Fenachrone, they then encounter the pure intellectuals, beings composed of energy and, in order to escape them, rotate themselves into the Fourth Dimension.They are there captured by a fourth-dimensional civilisation.
This, the third in the Skylark series (previously reviewed by me the first novel,  The Skylark of Space , and also the second, the confusingly named  Skylark Three ) opens to reveal that Richard Seaton’s Nemesis, Marc C DuQuesne did not die at the hands of the Fenachrone supermen in Skylark Three*, but instead was able to steal a battleship from them before their planet was destroyed. DuQuesne then goes to Norlamin, lies to the locals, and claims to be an employee of Seaton and Crane, whereupon
DuQuesne then conquers the Earth, and becomes very popular by abolishing war and crime, and creating full employment by building a defence system for the planet.But what are Seaton and Crane up to?
They were deep in intergalactic space chasing the Fenachrone at the end of Skylark Three; their velocity is so great that it’s easier to visit a new galaxy than turn around and come back.
Now to deal with the Intellectuals, and also DuQuesne, the very popular total ruler of Earth.Read This: For more space adventures; the fourth dimension sequence in particular is full of cool ideas.Don’t Read This: If building bigger ships and greater technology is boring.* The book, not the ship.
Much as expected from the previous two books, the formula is essentially the same: inciting event, training/tooling montage, embark on adventure, yikes, things are worse than expected, lucky escape, power-up, return, revenge.This time, mere space travel is not enough, Seaton and chums find themselves “rotated” into the “fourth dimension” which leads to probably the weakest part of the book.
The now happy locals don’t quite go so far as to elect Seaton as Overlord as happened in the previous books, but do dedicate their planetary resources to build him an even more giant spaceship and a way to “phone home”.Supposed antagonist DuQuesne is still in the picture, but Smith has to work pretty hard to keep him relevant.
More campy space opera from its first practitioner.
The third of Smith's Skylark novels, it takes up where the last one leaves off.
The villain "Blackie" DuQuesne returns to earth on a captured Fenachrone ship and takes over.
Meanwhile, Richard Seaton and Martin Crane with their wives encounter beings who are purely intellectual, composed of energy, and to escape them, they fling themselves into the fourth dimension where they are captured, but eventually escape back into our dimension but they discover they are lost in another galaxy.
They discover the planet Valeron, which is threatened by the Chlorans from a nearby planet.
Done, this book is becoming very dated, sadly. EE "Doc" Smith's character dialog and attitudes is and has been dated for quite a while. I remember reading this many years and enjoyed it then. This time thru I was just hanging on to be done.
NeilWill makes a very post on post on this book. The 4th D stuff is really cool.
Classic space opera.
This is a quaint book.
He even has the fairly modern concept of the Singularity (implemented by humans instead of computers, however).
Genocide is still a viable option in his universe, and I could help but cringe when he uses the phrase "uber alles" at one point in the book.
For some reason, I felt that much of this particular problem was redeemed by his final statements exhibiting hope that mankind could stop hating each other for being different.In the end I enjoyed it, mostly because I was able to get myself in the right mindset to read the book.
This was even a little better than the second one, which was a vast improvement over the first one.
I don't think E.E. Smith is ever going to be remembered for dialogue or pace or believability or overall balance.
Then there followed more intergalactic wars with weapons of ever-increasing size and ability.
The speeds with which space ships move around this far into the series are just hysterical, but there's something so addictive and fun in reading about them.
Just like watching overdone Japanese stuff, think Kamen Rider, the enemy and the weapons to fight the enemy just get bigger and bigger and bigger.
So fucking fun.
I love these campy old naive space operas.The hero's are all but infallible, the villains are always

The parts starring Duquesne were pretty interesting. When the point of view switches to the "good guys" the plot gets less interesting, while the science fiction elements get more interesting. Te good guys are so powerful and intelligent that any obstacles they have are quickly overcome, which can get a bit dull, but the way in which Smith imagines the front line of science progressing is interesting.It took me a while to get through this audiobook, mostly because the lack of a driving plot meant I didn't feel strongly drawn to putting head phones back on and listening to this.
I read this one a LONG time ago. The Skylark series is a classic which I periodically go back and reread every decade or so. The science is outdated and the level of technology is a bit too far-fetched but it's still a classic space opera.
The first three books of the series are typical EE Doc Smith and as a re-read I enjoyed the whole series again (see review for book 4)
The ending of the series is a bit twee but still loved every page.
Old school Space Opera series written by the doyen of space opera writes - style and content a bit dated now but still an ok read
no thanks .... too old style!
This series is not as awesome as his Lensman series but a very good SiFi series by one of the early masters. Very recommended
Read it 35 years ago
