https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/83143.Tatiana_and_Alexander
Better than the first! Really enjoyed this one
❝We walk alone through this world, but if we’re lucky, we have a moment of belonging to something, to someone, that sustains us through a lifetime of loneliness. For an evening minute I touched him again and grew red wings and was young again in the Summer Garden, and had hope and eternal life.❞  I did it again guys. I binge read 500+ pages within a few hours. XD I think I've read almost 2000 pages within a span of two days! I've been finishing each book in this series in a day and I can't sto
I've been finishing each book in this series in a day and I can't stop.Reading Tatiana and Alexander was truly aggravating and stressful, sometimes in a good way in other ways not.
After reading The Bronze Horseman, I already had a feeling that Alexander and Tatiana would be separated the whole book and would only reunite until the very end which was exactly what happened.I'm also predicting that in the final book we're going to finally see them living together as a family but all hell will break loose once again because these two people just can't catch a freakin break and have the happy ending that they so desperately deserve!
1.) The Bronze Horseman ★★★★★Buddy Read with Paloma ❤  “We walk alone through this world, but if we're lucky, we have a moment of belonging to something, to someone, that sustains us through a lifetime of loneliness.”  Okay, so first of all this book should have been named Tatiana OR Alexander based off the amount of time they are actually together. This book is the definition of the word angst. Heartbreaking, torturous angst. Trigger Warnings for attempted rape, graphic violence, graphic depict
After the events in The Bronze Horseman, Tatiana is starting her new life in America with her newly born son, while Alexander is dealing with the repercussions of war, while being stuck in Europe.
Like The Bronze Horseman, this book was so atmospheric that you can't help but feel everything that these characters are going through.
I just feel like there were too many flashbacks, and I wish I could have seen more of Alexander and Tatiana actually being together, through pain or happiness or whatever Paullina Simons chose to give us.
Tatiana meanwhile in America is forced to try and live on with their infant son believing that he is dead.I don't have words to describe and BEAUTIFULLY and SEAMLESSLY the author wove together Alexander's story with Tatiana's as well as flashbacks and memories.
This writing style becomes more and more poignant as the series goes on because as you know more and more about the characters, the author is able to make the sections more and more emotional until every single one of your heart strings is raw.The ending is perfect and this being the romance love story that it is, everything does work out in the end, which believe me is what will keep you going throughout it.I'm starting book 3 right away which follows Alexander and Tatiana in their new life in America with their son as they face life after the war together.
Esta primera parte de la novela también es muy estremecedora ya que, a modo de recuerdos, se cuenta la llegada de la familia Barrington a Rusia y como, poco a poco, se van destruyendo los proyectos, las ilusiones y sus vidas.Sin embargo, cuando ya llevaba más de la mitad del libro (y más de tres años de separación de sus protagonistas) me comencé a desesperar, no sólo por todos los infructuosos intentos de Alexander de escapar, sino porque la desesperanza empieza a hacer mella en su espíritu (view spoiler)[el punto de quiebre es indudablemente la muerte de Pasha, a quien Alexander había encontrado poco antes (hide spoiler)].
This is also where we see the worst of the siege of Leningrad and, I kid you not, after reading this book I've dreamed of being starved to death for multiple night in a row.
You know, just in case.➦This also is a book where things get steamy.
After following these characters for such a long time you definitely feel like you know them.
Ah, hell, who am I kidding?➦I will also tell you that I have attempted to read book #3 in this series and dropped it.
Some things were beginning to sound a bit redundant so I put it on pause...
Uno de los personajes masculinos más complejos, humanos y perfectos en su imperfección que he tenido el placer de leer.Como Cassie en su reseña http://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com..., encuentro muchos paralelismos entre los padecimientos de Shura y los de Jamie Fraser (en los primeros 3 libros de la saga Outlander), dos hombres hechos para la guerra, que han sufrido como nadie pero aún así son capaces de sacrificarlo todo por amor y amar de manera incondicional, sin reservas.El libro cuenta, además, con un magnífico epílogo, que pone el broche de oro a una historia emocionante que me ha llegado al corazón como pocas.
♥♥♥♥♥A LOVE STORY♥♥♥♥♥ "What about our life has ever been easy?" Truer words were never spoken. Can these two, please, have less heartache and more happy times in Lazarevo?My emotions ran the gamut from crying to wanting to punch someone in the throat. My heart ached for both of them as they struggled to go on with life. When times were hard I relied on Alexander's words, 'I have to have faith.'Orbeli was introduced in TBH and we learn more about it in this book. Orbeli was the ultimate sacrific
"What about our life has ever been easy?"
My heart ached for both of them as they struggled to go on with life.
When times were hard I relied on Alexander's words, 'I have to have faith.'Orbeli was introduced in TBH and we learn more about it in this book.
Orbeli was the ultimate sacrifice that Alexander gave to Tania.
When Tania learns the meaning behind the name, Orbeli, she has hope and faith in their love for one another.
The story flowed from Alexander's past as a child to where TBH left off.
Tatiana me tuvo (y me tiene) completamente FASCINADA. Pero, sin duda, este libro es fundamental para conocer, entender y adorar a Alexander. Una vez más, todas mis emociones a flor de piel. ¡Qué maravillosa historia! ❤
I was desperate to find out what happened but of course, nothing could be that easy!
Tatiana being in a much better place but left with doubts if Alexander did die or not, and if he did, should she move on with her life?
There were a few surprises...one in particular was something I knew would happen even though I'm quite sadden by how things ultimately turned out.I was really blown away by Tatiana...she has definitely grown up!
What happened towards the end was amazing and I loved her conviction!
A lot of scenes from The Bronze Horseman were told again through his perspective.
His battle scenes were pretty intense, but I still found myself wanting them to hurry up so he could maybe possibly SOMEDAY be reunited with Tatiana.But I absolutely loved Tatiana's story in New York!
So obviously Tatiana figures out Alexander's message to her from the end of the first book and then goes off on some crazy mission to rescue him from a concentration camp.
I loved the scene where they meet, but then they quickly got on my nerves like they did occasionally in the first book.
He sufrido mucho, me he desesperado, me he emocionado, he llorado mucho con esta historia y con Tatiana y Alexander, pero ha valido la pena.Los primeros capítulos con los flashback y los cambios de escenarios me molestaron un poco pero tenía un sentido, teníamos que conocer mejor a Alexander, por todo lo que ha pasado, por cómo ha tenido que sobrevivir, es un personaje muy complejo, fuerte, hermético con muchos defectos y virtudes, ha conseguido durante años no quiere sentir pero cuando Tatiana entra en su vida ya no puede continuar siendo el mismo, ella es su luz y por ella daría la vida.
5+ Stars!!! - Also reviewed at: Lady Jayne's Reading Den “Where did they teach you how to live after you’d lost it all? Who taught you how to go on after you had lost everything?” ~ Tatiana This song, “My Love” by Lene Marlin (link below), is my theme song for this second book in the Tatiana and Alexander trilogy. MY LOVE by Lene Marlin The haunting voice and the lyrics…How my heart aches as I listen to it…Especially because every time I listen to it, now, it will forever remind me of Tatiana an
Don’t you?It has taken me so long to write my review for Tatiana and Alexander - over a year - because I was so CONSUMED with wanting to read the last book, The Summer Garden, that I just couldn’t stop to review this one.
"If it were not for hope, the heart would break." ~ Thomas FullerThis quote/mantra helped me to be able to breathe when I first started this book, after all I went through with Tatiana and Alexander in The Bronze Horseman.
The day after I finally write my review for Tatiana and Alexander, I come across this poignant and haunting song (link below) which is absolutely PERFECT for this book!
!!After reading The Bronze Horseman I immediately had to download book 2, Tatiana and Alexander..
It also led me to the beginning of Alexander's story and into his past..
how he came to Russia, and everything that happens to him and his family from the time they arrived and then everything that happens to him and Tatiana after TBH ends..Following TBH, this book took what was left of my shredded emotions and completely tore my heart out..
for me it was 10 times more emotional and heartbreaking than TBH..
There is nothing like reading a book that can pull such raw emotions from you.
So intense and stressful!!!!!
6++++ STARSPaullina Simons stole my heart and is never giving it back. Or I'm gonna need a suppport group after this trilogyGuys.... GUYS... I was so nervous I was going to hate this one. Maybe it's the dreaded sophomore slump, that seemingly inevitable second book ailment most trilogies suffer that was making me a bit jittery when I started this book. The Bronze Horseman blew me away like no other romance novel before it (and Ive been reading for a very long time), so I wondered where Paullina
The Bronze Horseman blew me away like no other romance novel before it (and I´ve been reading for a very long time), so I wondered where Paullina Simons would take me in the second entry.
A lot of the times middle books feel like filler and there's very little worthy stuff in them.
I don't even know how anything else is going to top this trilogy for me.Now, in the interest of full disclosure, I will say the first 30% or so of the book took me a little by surprise.
So yes, Paullina Simons stole my heart and I am sure it's too late for me now.
Aquí he conocido a Alexander sí porque el anterior era más de Tatiana a mi modo de ver.
Y la verdad es que me ha conquistado, si bien en el primer libro no estuve de acuerdo con algunas de sus “cosas”, para mí aquí es un personaje que con sus luces y sus sombras, es maravilloso.La trama gira entorno a la desesperación por volver uno a los brazos del otro sin saber si están vivos.
El coraje de Alexander por mantenerse con vida, la valentía de Tatiana...
He tardado mucho en leerlo, porque en ocasiones tanta guerra se me hacía pesada y tanto dolor imposible de aguantar.
A Universe of Heartbreaking, Poetic Stars "Once upon a time, young girls met young boys when the moon was full and the nights were dark, when there was a fire and singing and joking, when there was wine and taffeta and dancing, when the music was loud and the laughing, too, when one pair of eyes stared at another, and the girl's chest swelled and the boy came up close, and suddenly she looked up, he looked down and ...Once there was first love." What do you do … how do you go on … when your one
Keep Faith?"In Alexander's life there was one thread that could not be broken by death, by distance, by time, by war.
The only way to describe this gorgeous sequel.Our characters, Tatiana and Alexander are separated by distance, by war, by death.
The heart ache and devastation seem never ending.
Despite lies, war and death ...
That simple moment is the one that propels us through life - what we felt like at the very edge of our future, standing over the abyss, before we knew for sure we loved.
Before we know for sure we loved forever."
Granted, much of it was filled with struggle, heartache, and tension, but it did not lack the eternal love and persistent hope generated in the first book.
Alexander was faced with struggles that no man should ever have to endure, and my heart continued to ache for him.
There were a lot of flashbacks in this book, which allowed us to get to know who Alexander was before meeting Tania- all the way back to his not so fortunate childhood.
This book is a captivating continuation to the astounding relationship of Tatiana and Alexander.
Ειλικρινα δεν ξερω τι να γραψω...
He sufrido y mucho pero he disfrutado muchísimo más que la primera vez.
He sido capaz de entender mucho más a Shura, de comprender los motivos que le llevan a actuar de determinados modos tanto en lo que ya he leído como en lo que me falta por leer.
Adoro a Tatiana y jamás habrá otra protagonista como ella, la Luz personificada, la que salva vidas y las rescata de la muerte, pero como Shura...
Nada puede superar a lo que siento cada vez que vivo a través de ellos.[Y dicho esto, me voy a llorar 😂]------------------//PRIMERA LECTURA// No puedo expresar con palabras los sentimientos y las emociones que he tenido leyendo este libro.
Qué puedo decir que no haya dicho ya sobre este libro? Que me parte el corazón, que no lo supero, que sufro con Tatiana y Alexander lo inimaginable, pero que volvería a leerlo infinitas veces más. Es la historia de amor más grande con la que me he encontrado a lo largo de mis años como lectora.
SPOILERS AHEAD FOR THE BRONZE HORSEMAN    4.5 STARS"Love is so short, forgetting is so long."-Tonight I Can Write  I couldn't possibly choose a passage from this book that best encapsulates the theme of Tatiana and Alexander's continuing battle against the odds of World War II. So I'm nicking something from Neruda which I find fitting because Shura, for the most part of this book, sounds like a hybrid between a South American poet and... well, Chuck Norris. In fact, try reading that poem and y
I also have the vaguest suspicion that the contraceptive pill was invented solely because of Shura's "Sugarstick".I find reading Tatiana and Alexander the perfect punishment book  for someone who has kept on raging against the hero and heroine being together too much too frequently.
(view spoiler)[I'm pretty sure he can literally break vaginas,  (hide spoiler)] I'm not even kidding.But never letting you forget when and where it is and what you've gotten yourself into.Because just as in The Bronze Horseman, this book vividly portrays the horrors of war, what it reduces men into and what it leaves in its ravaged path.
*** 5++++ INFINITE, HEARTBREAKING, UNFORGETTABLE AND ALL CONSUMING STARS ***   I just can't get over how much IN LOVE I am with these books...with this EPIC and TIMELESS story...with Tatiana and Alexander...It truly is the most consuming and beautiful love story I ever read! Full of devotion, ache, longing, angst, despair and above all hope. If they were lucky to find each other, they will always find away towards each other. They can't conceive a world without the other in it!So there are love
After being torn apart,Tania and Shura are trying to survive in a world consumed by war, trying to survive without each other.The book goes back and forth with both POV's...showing her journey to her new life in NY, with their son Anthony.
We also get several "flashbacks" of Shura's life before the war, since he was a little kid leaving America for Soviet Union to many key moments of his life, that molded him to the man we first met in the previous book!Tatiana 
I need more stars... I can't talk right now, tears are flowing.... There just aren't enough stars....
If this had been a meet a friend at a restaurant to catch up on life situation, I would have been falling out of my chair screaming, “CHECK PLEASE!!”Now don’t get me wrong, I still did enjoy a lot of what this story had to offer.
I liked the general plot of the story and it was nice seeing the continuation of the characters I had fallen for originally.
It would have added a new flavor to the rehashed content of those pages making them more interesting and tolerable.Geez…this review makes it sound like I hated the story.
Qué bonito escribe Paullina Simons y qué libro más hermoso ♥ Ha sido un no parar de emociones, como hacer un viaje alucinante en el que vas descubriendo algo nuevo a cada paso, una experiencia buenísima. No tengo claro si iré por el tercero porque el final me ha parecido estupendo; aunque es posible que mi curiosidad me gane la partida, pero eso será más adelante, por ahora me quedo con la sensación tan bonita que me ha dejado esta historia hasta aquí.
Nada me preparo para Tatiana y Alexander. Este libro representa demasiado. Demasiado sufrimiento. Demasiada intensidad. Demasiada angustia. Demasiada hermosura. Demasiada perfección. Juro que me pase toda la lectura llorando. Sin duda, lo ame.
Tatiana and Alexander was so beautiful to read it was almost painful.
Tatiana and Alexander propels me through life.
I have never in my life read a more beautiful love story.
When I'm dead, and they cut me open, my love for Tatiana and Alexander will be ingraved in and on my heart.
How could you forget me so quick, she thought Alexander was saying to her, when I have paid for you with my life?Have you been looking for me?
This time we live together or we die together.”Falling in love with you in the Summer Garden in the white nights of Leningrad is the moment that propels me through life.“Tatiana, my wife, we never had a future.
The Bronze Horseman was a beautiful love story set in war torn Russia.
Paulina Simons ended book one on a note of young love rudely interrupted by war,  their lives ripped apart.
Whereas Tatiana is busy filling her days as a nurse at Ellis Island, helping other refugees and raising their son, Alexander is being treated as a criminal, he's sent to the frontline where lives are disposible, where he's injured and  starved.
Only time (and the 742 pages) will tell what  Paulina Simons has in store for Tatiana and Alexander in their post-war lives but my  hope is for them to finally find happiness, together - away from Russia - in America,  with their son Anthony.
