https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124672.Fun_for_the_Secret_Seven
Blyton's Running out of Mysteries23 August 2012 Well, there goes my goal of reading all of the Secret Seven books in order.
I realised that I haven't read one for a while so I decided to grab this one, in case I finished my other book while I was on holidays (I didn't), and when I finished my last book I clicked on the 'reading now' tab on Goodreads and suddenly realised that this was the last one – I still have another three to read before I get to this one.
So, I sat at the table in the coffee
Fortunately I'm getting to the end of my Enid Blyton collection (and will probably not try to get my hands on any more of them because once I finish off the rest of the Famous Five and Secret Sevens there aren't really any more books of hers that I really want to read) so I guess that this one being a disappointment isn't really a big thing.
In the end, this is one of those happy, happy, feel good type of books, and while there is one chapter containing horse thieves, all that happens is that the Secret Seven manage to save a horse and clear poor Tolley's debt.
The most boring Secret Seven book ever. No wonder it was her last. I shall call it "The one which drones on and on about an old man and a horse and nothing really happens at all".
The title should have been an indicator that the Secret Seven would not be up to any mystery in this one.
Just because there is no mystery, it doesn't mean the Seven were not problem-solving in this one!
He had become very fond of a farm horse named Brownie, but Dinneford was a task-master with no pity for old and sick animals.
Was this a task for the Secret Seven?
In addition to the Secret Seven's fun antics, it also has a valuable lesson about the importance of good intentions and karma too.
And that is the end and the worst book is the last book in this book with a whole lot of writing about some old geezer and his horse and very little mystery in the air. The series creaks to a dead halt here and we leave the seven youngsters pottering around in their neighbourhood. A disappointing end to it all.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
Great book.
I used to read Enid Blyton when I was young and the Secret Seven were one of my fav along with the Famous Five.
The story revolves around the Secret Seven coming to the rescue of Tolly and his horse Brownie.
Well technically Brownie isn't Tolly's horse, he just works for the owner.
He also calls the vet to help heal Brownie, and in so doing has incurred a huge vet's expense that the owner feels Tolly must pay.
It was a short book, easy to read and quite an opener as to what I used to read when I was young.
Out of all the Secret Seven books, this is definitely my least favourite. There wasn't any mystery to be solved, to be honest there wasn't much of a story either; they just help a man and a horse.It was much more sickly sweet than the other Secret Seven books and I found the children extremely irritatating when they kept going on and on about buying a share in the horse. I'm glad this was the last book in the series and not the first, because I probably wouldn't have read any more of them if it was.
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
This is undoubtedly the worst book that Enid Blyton ever wrote, and the fact that she seems to have all but totally lost her mental faculties by this point is undoubtedly to blame. Plot strands are started and utterly forgotten about, characters forget what they are supposed to be doing or feeling from page to page, and the narrative is a complete mess. The fact that the book was allowed to be published in this state is an insult to both Enid and her readers.
I read this before my current (November-December 2007) Secret-Seven spree. I don't remember it in detail, except that it seemed crudely written in spots, but was overall quite fun.Back cover blurb (of the Galaxy Children's Large Print Edition): "The Seven are desperate to help Tolly and his sick horse, Brownie. But where can they hide an old man and his horse? And can they protect Brownie from thieves?"
Review by second oldest daughter, aged 7: This book is about the Secret Seven, the BEAUTIFUL horse Brownie, and old Tolly. My favourite part was when the party happened. And when the mystery started. Others will enjoy this book, I can assure you, in case you don't know! Dad and I read this book together.
A nice finish to the Secret Seven series. This one was more of an adventure than a mystery. When I told my son that we had finished the series and there were no more Secret Seven books, he asked me if we could get them all again.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
A proper feel good story for children or those reliving their younger reading days. Plenty of good and bad guys to keep the story very entertaining.
I BOUGHT THIS BOOK ON A BOOK FAIR. IT IS LIKE A DETECTIVE STORY.ITS SUPERBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB.........
I only read the Secret Seven recently, and the funny thing is I don't think I would have actually liked them when I was the target age.
Pre teen reads
13th - 2011
Exciting and interesting especially scamper scampering around!
good!
Worst of the series easily
Yet another masterpiece by Enid Blyton.
nc
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
I remember trying to write my own Secret Seven story as a child.
See my review of the 1st one
Nice book :)
Good read :)
dddd
