https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7053.In_the_Company_of_Cheerful_Ladies
"We are all tempted, Mma. We are all tempted when it comes to cake." "That is true," said Mma Potekwane.
"There are many temptations in this life, but cake is probably one of the biggest of them.""""Temptation is very difficult," said Mma Ramotswe quietly.
I am not a strong woman in that respect." "I am glad you said that," said Mma Potokwane.
"I am not strong either.
For example, right at the moment, I am thinking of cake." "And so am I," confessed Mma Ramotswe.
Mma Potekwane stood up and shouted to the girl outside.
"Two more pieces of cake, please.
Even though life in Botswana is most likely very different than life in Canada, there is something about the tone or writing style that reminds me of life at my grandparent's house.
I love the traditional values, the respect for people/property/manners.
And most of all, I love that it is important to slow down and really be in the moment with those important to you.
I know that the future installments become a little formulaic.
However, every so often I am struck by how much I miss my grandparents, and reading one of these books takes the edge off.
There is a little magic to these books.

If you've never tried audiobooks, or if you already love them, I beg you to try listening to any volume in this series.
Alexander McCall Smith, I love you and your wonderful books so much.
It's a calm, happy, settled feeling that I am guaranteed to experience every time I pick up a book in this series that keeps me coming back, time after time.
It's the characters and the author's appreciation for Botswana and the natural world that make this series.
I wish everyone would read this series; I love it that much.
Lisette Lecat narrates each and every book, and she does so magnificently.

I wouldn't recommend the "No.1 Ladies' Detective Agency" series to just anyone, but I admit I have enjoyed it.
I think some folks might NOT appreciate the idyllicism, the simplicity of characters, the repetition.
The people and situations are charmingly simple (the style has been called utopian)and it really worked for me but I wonder if some might feel that the characters are just bufoons, and they might take issue with that.
Also, I would be naive to pretend to know about cultural authenticity for this book--so I'm not even addressing that issue.
Whenever I am stressed, have too many deadlines, or simply have been reading too much heavy, sad stuff, I look for another in the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series. It is just relaxing, pleasant reading to imagine myself sitting under an acacia tree in the hot Botswana sun drinking bush tea... Although a totally different climate and history, Botswanna in a way reminds me of rural Costa Rica 20 years ago. The slow pace of life, everyone knows each other, and honesty and reputation and ethics are important.
Lovely prose, gentle clever people.
Delightful!The more I read McCall Smith, the more I look forward to reading more.
Since so many people are writing reviews about these wonderful books and discussing the plot, I think I will talk about Africa and especially the way Mma Ramotswe feels about her home and her people.
Reading these books has given me the same feeling I got from the beginning of Out of Africa and Cry, the Beloved Country.
I feel like my life was made much richer by relating to a local alcoholic who got saved at least twice a year, or the man who named all his sons after himself and called them each by nicknames to keep them straight.
These are cozy little reads that are really more about the characters' relationships to each other than about any mysteries taken on by the detective agency.
He confesses that he wants to present books about Africa that are not tragedies.
He sets the pace slowly (as per the "cozy mystery" genre conventions).
He also explains how he travels from Scotland back to Botwana once a year to conduct research for each subsequent book in the series.
These books are slow-paced, domestic, charming and educational.
I am learning a bit about Botswana, which makes me feel less guilty about reading genre fiction.
Another trip to Botswana so couldn't let it pass without another glimpse into the world of Mma Ramotswe. As always it was a delight. I love getting to be on location as I read as the books are so visual already and being there just brings it even more to life. Can't help but adopt the Botswanan accent as I read as well. :)
Mma Ramotswe knew that this was what happened when towns became bigger and people became strangers to one another; she knew, too, that this was a consequence of increasing prosperity, which, curiously enough, just seemed to bring out greed and selfishness." "If you knew what it was like to be another person, then how could you possibly do something which would cause pain?
It could be that they were born this way---with something missing from their brains---or it could be that they became like that because they were never taught by their parents to sympathize with others.
this is a most enjoyable little novel about a large african lady who uses her inheritance to set up a detective agency. she solves small, human, mysteries in a clever way. warm, funny and thoroughly enjoyable stuff. the 6th in the series. humane, whimsical, and humorous as always. in this one, mme Ramwatsi has trouble with her 'ex', Note, and mma Maccutse finally finds a good man.
I love the characters of Mma Precious Ramatswe, Mma Grace Makutsi and Mr J.L.B. Matekoni and have gained appreciation for Botswana and the respectful attitudes of its traditional way of life. The books in this series have brightened my evenings.
Mma Ramotswe is everything that is right in the world!After waiting for a long long time, Note finally made an appearance, and needless to say, I hated him with all my might, and not just because of the complete jerk that he is, but also because the kind of power he had over Mma Precious.
Looking forward to Mma Makutsi's wedding now!Definitely recommended, this and the entire series!P.S. McCall Smith is coming for this years JLF and I cannot go and I can't tell you how sad that has made me.
I am trying not to think about it, but it sucks!
In this sixth entry in McCall Smith's consistently delightful series, Botswana detective Precious Ramotswe, the traditionally built—and newly married—owner of the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, is saddled with a surfeit of challenging cases and personal crises.
Among the new characters is Mr. Polopetsi, hired to work at Tlokweng Road after Mma Ramotswe knocks him off his bicycle with her tiny white van.Throughout the series, plots and subplots serve primarily as vehicles for character development and the exploration of cultural values.
These were the good things that happened and one had to remember them."Book Details: Title In the Company of Cheerful Ladies (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 6)Author Alexander McCall SmithReviewed By Purplycookie
Calamity looms for her and her new marriage.This latest, sixth, instalment of the delightful series, brings us more of life's ups and downs of the small community of Precious' family and friends.
A minor accident with the tiny white van brings a surprisingly interesting new character into the circle, Mr Polopetsi.
In the meantime, Mma Makutsi moves into new circles, and takes exploratory steps towards a new life - literally with new shoes.McCall Smith has a unique style that wraps around the reader like a comforting blanket.
McCall Smith's main subject of interest of this as it was in his previous instalments, are the people.
It just starts to feel like filler to me, I'd rather the words were spent more on story and less on repeated reflections.
Mma Makutsi seems to be heading in a rather materialistic and selfish direction, while Mma Ramotswe seems more and more critical of just about everyone except the few people who fit in with her ideals of sticking to "the old Botswana morality", which I think I've heard just about enough of by this point.
Como sempre, nada de acontecimentos grandiosos, tudo é muito simples e corriqueiro aqui.Mma Ramotswe se depara com o misterioso aparecimento de uma abóbora além de um par de calças masculinas em sua casa, Mr J.L.B. Matekoni tem um problema com Charlie, o aprendiz mais velho por conta de uma rica mulher numa Mercedez-Benz, ganha um novo ajudante, Mma Makutsi resolve aprender a dançar e Note reaparece.De ler com um eterno sorriso nos lábios...
Quero mais.Histórico de leitura26/04/201666% (168 de 256)"Os médicos sempre nos dizem coisas que devemos fazer que eles mesmos não conseguem.
Daily life really encroaches on the Agency and no matter how big or small, the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency is ready to tackle any case - even if we do have to wait until almost the very end to find out how that pumpkin got onto Mma. Ramotswe's verandah.
The more you read this series, the more these characters become fleshed out and by the end of the book you are ready for the next book in the series to see how your friends at the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency are faring in the day to day adventures of life in Botswana.
This is #6 in The No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency series.
Mma Rwatse lies on her bed and squeezes out a mysterious intruder who had hidden there.
He flees sans pants that got caught on the bed.
One of the apprentices at the car shop is dating a rich married woman and foolishly puts far too many eggs in that basket.Smith continues along with his set of endearing characters.
If you are new to the series.
I would stop, go back and read The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency.
It makes a difference seeing the characters develop over the volumes.
As always the No1 ladies' detective agency stories were also great in the sixth book of the serie. But this time I think there were so much more different things happening. New characters were introduced who have an important part in this book. The pumpkin part was sooo funny and the end of the story promises other happenings in the enxt books which sound already interesting and exciting just thinking about them!
Very Good; continuing character: Precious Ramotswe; one of the apprentices seeing an older woman, a visit from Precious' ex-husband, a bicyclist hit by the van, and dance lessons for Mma Makutsi keep the detective agency busy
Lots of references to the near perfect score of 97% and each one made me smile and laugh.
Here you can read my review in Swedish: http://jennyjag.wordpress.com/2015/02...Here you can see my review in English: http://youtu.be/zqdbRI2YDZQ
L'un des meilleur livre de Alexander McCall Smith.C'est là que l'on se rend compte que les enquêtes 
I am now finished with number 6 of this witty, wonderful series. Several problems crop up in this installment. Charlie, the older apprentice, takes up with an older woman. There is a problem with the tenant of Mr. JLB Matekoni's former home. Mma. Makutski goes to dance school and is paired up with a very shy, clumsy dancing partner. Note Mokoti shows up in town and tries to cause trouble for Precious Ramotswe. And who is Mr. Polopetski?
Another enjoyable No. Ladies' Detective Agency novel, but I can't recommend listening to it on Audible. I did not enjoy the reader - she said, "Mma" in a very annoying way...like drags it out for an additional pause, and, unfortunately, the author uses this title in practically every sentence of dialogue, so it gets real old REAL fast.
This series makes you stop and think. Mma Ramotswe sees to the core of people. She always takes the time to listen to her clients. She worries about those she loves. I hope to find and read all of this series.
