https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/440403.The_Complete_Adventures_of_Snugglepot_and_Cuddlepie
Not, you never said that Snugglepot and Cuddlepie was a sex-and-violence-infused philosophically-motivated Scandinavian-themed retelling of Genesis. WHY DID YOU LIE TO ME?______________________[Later the same day]Well, I'm definitely building up a picture of what this book is like. I'm going to be soooo disappointed if it turns out that the Goodreads recommendations engine was just stringing me along.
She is now famous for her invention of the "Gumnut babies" who first appeared in illustrations she made for another author, Ethel Turner, and then on postcards May Gibbs produced, which depicted gumnut babies in uniform to support Australia's role in World War One. She started writing stories about Gumnut babies and Gumblossom babies in 1916.
It is a charming and fun way to learn such lessons, as well as gentle reminders about good manners, "In the Bush everyone is polite when they are asked to be." The names are all very much of their time; "Lilly Pilly", "Mrs. Busy Blossom", "Lanky Legs"  (a frog), The ultimate threat is there, in this case the "Banksia men" whom some Australian adults remember even today as giving them nightmares when they were little.
Now, as an adult and a mother to two young children, the magic in re-reading this text and sharing the journey with my own children has been a magical experience.The edition I received for review from the May Gibbs brand of The Complete Adventures of Snugglepot and Cuddlepie, was re-formatted and released in 2007.
Each of these additional extra tales compliments the main feature narrative.In this new edition of the famed work of May Gibbs, readers will be pleased to see an added bonus to the treasury.
These you can see on the cover here, whose dress and life is based on the gumnuts produced by the eucalyptus tree.Taking an educated guess, I’d say the illustrator and author of these stories, May Gibbs, was trying to create a kind of Australian fairy in that very Victorian/Edwardian vision of what a fairy was (certainly not the darker Celtic Fae, but rather a kind of sweet creature who hopped from flower to flower).
i can remember reading it as a child and loving it. i have personal feelings towards it and is for me cherished.
This book is the reason why I have so much love and respect for lizards and am still scared of Banksias. I have an irrational fear that they will come alive and render me deadibones!
Having seen a rugby scrum will explain better, but still ridiculously cute.And yes, like many Aussie kids 'afore me, the Big Bad Banksia Men are the stuff of nightmares, and cute little bottoms cause for smirks.
Having grown up with banksia trees, gum nut collections, lizards, snakes, kookaburras, kangas, koalas etc etc these pictures came to mind on all our little adventures to the bush.
The animals are much shyer.As I mentioned, the story was never what enthralled me, it was the pictures, and I have read it again at 40+ with a wonder that I ever read the whole thing the first time.
In the end, I've read quite some children's books I loved...
Either way, I thought "Australia's best-loved children's book" would blow my socks off, but it was hard to get into the story.
I quite enjoyed Gibbs' writing style, though I felt like running around like a chicken without a head throughout the fist book "Snugglepot and Cuddlepie"."Little Ragged Blossom" brought a breath of fresh air.
Needless to say, I had high hopes for the 3rd book!
Unfortunately, no matter how cute "Little Obelia" was, it didn't do it for me.
Oh Obelia, why did you leave empty-handed...?
I got this book secondhanded in Blok M and quite satisfied that (turns out) this actually is a "classic" and popular childhood story in Australia.
I also love the cheeky names of our heroes, Snugglepot and Cuddlepie.
But after some pages it is okay as long you're patient enough to give attention (got lost many times tho) because the pace is really quick and full of eponymous characters.There are 3 stories of the adventures of Snugglepot, Cuddlepie, and friends.
Pretty much intense..........and frightening.Is it just me or what, because I was thrilled reading our hero fell down from the air and killed 300 ants accidentally.
Gibbs achieves much in these three little books.
Her illustrations are lovely, her characters loveable, and the stories enjoyable—with elements of both fantasy and reality.
But in addition, she showcases the wildlife downunder (both in the bush and under the sea)—at times, in rather creative ways—the Kangaroo cabs for one pop immediately to mind.
The stories are written simply, yet have a certain amount of ‘wordplay’, in some instances reminiscent of Alice.
And she conveys her message against being cruel to the environment and particularly animals effectively with a rather heartrending description of a trapped possum.
But luckily for us, this is a children’s book, and things turn out well for all.
this is like my childhood in one book. It used to be a tradition that my mum would read me a book every night or a chapter of a book if it was a series or a novel. But when we started reading these it was like a whole new world opened up to me. The characters were mostly absolutely adorable with their little hats and the writing managed to reach out to younger readers/ listeners emotionally too. The pictures were incredibly lovely. All in all, I loved this series and the memories it holds for me.
I read this not too long ago and wondered what on earth happened. The language is a bit odd, and that prevented me from going further. It's a classic for a very good reason: the concept and idea, plus the illustrations are brilliant. I just wish the language was different.
Absolutely loved it as a child. Adored the drawings, they were so detailed and just wonderful. I still have a thing for "gum leaves", because of this wonderful book. A great childhood adventure.
I really enjoyed this book when I was a little girl, but was terrified by the Banksia men. LOL
This is an Aussie tale that is such a classic that it is still read in homes today. It is an exceptional story accompanied by exceptional art. Lots of love for the Aussie classics.
It's a shame more people don't know this book. If they did, they would understand my terror of all things that look like Banksia Men!
An Australian Classic, that will warm all hearts. Cuddlepie and Snugglepot are tiny little Nuts or fairies , who together have adventures together, along with their many friends. Though only a slim book,it is full of the beautiful artwork of May Gibbs.  If you want something to read this Christmas that is unlike anything you usually read, this is it,, Beautifully written, and artwork to love, , for all ages,
Possibly one of the most iconic series of my childhood! I loved looking at the pictures - it was so beautifully illustrated. Particularly loved the pink flowers, and I do recall a giant gecko that was a lot of fun!The Banksia Men didn't really do it for me, but who likes the villain when you're a kid?
#52books2018 number 40: the Complete Adventures of Snugglepot and Cuddlepie by May Gibbs. 3 books in 1. For me: perfection in nostalgia, but sheer joy in reading aloud and seeing it capture the imagination of 7, 9 and 10 yr olds alike. Timeless writing and illustrations. Love.
I am still charmed and my daughter is newly charmed and magicked away...
If you want to find me,jump into the sea.
Amazing to read with children
People write really weird stuff for kids. A wild ride, with excellent illustrations.
A true Australian classic! A must read.
Looooovely illustrations, I absolutely adore them. Storywise there's a bit too much happening that doesn't really make sense. I don't know if I expect too much for a children's book maybe, but then for children it's quite horrific: actually the whole book is quite a thriller with those wicked Banksia men! Still I found it super special to read this famous Australian book as a non-ozzie :)
I've never read this classic - what a strange, lovable world.
But before it became two separate sections of stained pages clinging for life with its thin cover the only protection and support, it was the collected works.What I never realised what how the story of Snugglepot and Cuddlepie came about, yes they were brothers but apparently not exactly.
Other characters get some more history as the stories continue and the continuing adventures of the duo and their friends manages to fill in all the missing information that remained from the previous book.
C loved this book much more than I expected him to. Me? Not so much. It's just a touch too twee for my taste.
Ok this book is one that definitely has a bunch of mixed thoughts for me.
My first thoughts were like "ok".
I would recommend this book especially to those who like to try something new and exotic but also to those who may be interested in fairytales.
The only thing is that I would ask parents to read it first, especially in this culture where everything is suspect, for there is natural nudity, killing, attacking, running away and some other suspect acts.
With twists and turns around every corner, these beautiful Australian tales are an absolute gem to read.May Gibbs has created a delightful world that has captivated Australian readers since its conception in 1918.
I loved Snugglepot and Cuddlepie as a child and was a little worried about tainting the magical memories I have by reading them as an adult.
It is easy to see why Snugglepot and Cuddlepie are Australian classics.If you haven't read the adventures of Snugglepot and Cuddlepie you need to do it now.
