https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116236.The_Education_of_Little_Tree
Their identity is primarily communal, primarily traditional, incapable of change, learning, or individuality.It's hard for me to think of a more pointed definition or racism than 'assuming that a group of people, similar in appearance and ancestry, all share a series of invariable traits which make them fundamentally and inescapably different from every other individual and people group'.Like 'The Kite Runner', this is just another book that assuages white guilt by making white readers feel that, in just picking up a book, they have become worldly, understanding, and compassionate--despite the fact that neither book really reveals the culture it set out to depict, and could not provide any real insight to anyone who was in the least familiar with how those cultures actually work.
Within the first three pages I fell in love with our four year old narrator, whose grandfather called Little Tree.
So Little Tree learns from his grandparents the way of the Indian and how to navigate the world of the white man.
Loved watching him learn, change and grow.
Of course there is sadness, the white world trying to encroach on the Indian ways, but also he knows he is loved.I knew nothing about this author when I read this book.
I usually think that learning about an author often adds nuances to their books, that are usually passed over.
The Education of Little Tree: Which is Right  The Education of Little Tree by Forrest Carter was chosen as the Pre-1980 Group Read by members of On the Southern Literary Trail for June, 2016. Special thanks to Trail Member Tina for nominating this work.   The Education of Little Tree, First Edition, Delacorte Press, New York, New York, 1976    Forrest Carter, 1975 This is my third read of this book. It means much to me. For it speaks of the love shared by a young boy and his grandparents. Orphan
The Education of Little Tree by Forrest Carter was chosen as the Pre-1980 Group Read by members of On the Southern Literary Trail for June, 2016.
Orphaned at five, Little Tree, a Cherokee Indian, is taken into the home of Granma and Granpa.My Mother married young.
Whatever Asa Carter's actual political beliefs were at one time does not mean he still possessed those beliefs at the time he wrote The Education of Little Tree.
A Jew.To refuse to read this book because of Asa Carter's previous political life is a form of censorship.
A Transcript from This American Life concerning Forrest/Asa Carter and The Education of Little Tree
Forget about it and enjoy this book with an innocent mind!The Education of Little Tree follows a young boy as he follows his Grandpa, learning and loving as he goes.
Little Tree and his Grandparents lived with the land, not in spite of it like I feel a lot of our population is doing now.
It motivated me to plant a good garden, enjoy nature more, love more.
One aspect of the book that I really looked deeply at was the small side story of the sharecroppers.
Little Tree and his family lived with the land and met their own needs accordingly, therefore thriving and not left wanting.
This is one of my favorite books of all time.
It's so much more than how you would describe it, so much more than words like story about a boy and his grandparents living in the South describe.
The words have such power.
They are so vivid; they recreate a world, a picture of a different time and place that is gone from us now.
Because of their power, I can so perfectly imagine those hills, that place, and those people in my mind.
Every time I read this book, I feel as I am there with them, living their life.
bir çocuğun çok içten ve saf dünyası ... Küçük Ağaç'ın hikayesi kesinlikle okunmalı ...
embarrassing. after caty informed me, i googled the author and learned that the original edition was published as an autobiography, though carter is not of native american heritage, was a leader in the klu klux klan, and active as a segregtionist. wow, huh? if you ever want a defintion of appropriation and cultural theft, here's an exemplary one. (my tattered copy was dubbed as an autobiography.)
The reissue I have from 1999 has "AMERICAN INDIANS/FICTION" on the back cover, but the introduction calls it "[Forrest Carter's] autobiographical remembrances of life with his Eastern Cherokee Hill country grandparents." I decided to just go ahead and read the book, then google it later.Pre-google review:Touching - checkSage - checkWell-written - checkThe characters were quite endearing and an interesting story unfolds before the backdrop of the Great Depression.Post-google review:You poser!This article in salon.com, entitled "The Education of Little Fraud" slams Forrest Carter (actually Asa Carter), pointing out that he was a founder of the Ku Klux Klan.
I remembered enjoying this book when i read it about fifteen years ago.
I stuck in on my list of 'have-reads' and gave it high marks.
Shouldn't art stand on its own?
He misrepresented the story as a true autobiography (though that, in itself, isn't enough; art is largely artifice), and he is not Wagner.
This was just a good story, or at least an appealing one, that was made larger by the belief that it was real, and to discover exactly how unreal it was destroys the illusion.
And in art, the illusion is everything.
I finished this book last weekend.
I'd put it up there with The Alchemist and To Kill a Mockingbird, it was that powerful.
The story is told in vignettes; the chapters in chronological order.
It was a quick read, just over 200 pages, with some mild language.
I wish I could describe this book better, but it was so moving and just amazing.
I really recommend NOT google-ing the author until after you've read the book, he wasn't a very good person.
Although, the story about this book getting the boot from Oprah's list is funny.
Interesting book, especially in the fact that the writer was also a speech writer for George Wallace, infamous Southern biggot and racist. Maybe that shows Carters true talent then, the ability to switch between such different literary voices...the question is, which voice is his?
Interesting book, especially in the fact that the writer was also a speech writer for George Wallace, infamous Southern biggot and racist. Maybe that shows Carter´s true talent then, the ability to switch between such different literary voices...the question is, which voice is his?
Επίσης, ο συγγραφέας έθιξε και κάποια ζητήματα που άπτονται της θρησκείας, της πολιτικής και του σύγχρονου πολιτισμού, μέσω της απλοϊκής και αθώας ματιάς του Μικρού Δέντρου.Δεν είναι απαραίτητο να γράψω ένα ολόκληρο κατεβατό για την ομορφιά και την ποιότητα που χαρακτηρίζει το βιβλίο αυτό, απλά διαβάστε το και θα καταλάβετε.
Απλά, πιθανότατα, είναι ένα βιβλίο που χρειάζεται να διαβαστεί στον κατάλληλο χρόνο και χώρο, για να το απολαύσει κανείς όπως του αξίζει.
Χάρηκα πολύ που επιτέλους το διάβασα και το μόνο σίγουρο είναι ότι θα το ξαναδιαβάσω κάποια στιγμή στο μέλλον.
kötü çeviriye rağmen kitabı çok sevmeniz mümkünden de öte.. okuma listenize ekleyin diyorum, neden mi? çünkü "iyi bir şeyle karşılaştığın zaman yapman gereken ilk şey bulabildiğin insanla onu paylaşmaktır."
I'm surrounded by kids all the time anyway.The wisdom and utter innocence of Little tree was so refreshing I felt like I was being schooled by a 5 year old.
I loved learning about all the Indian traditions.
Toward the end when he had to leave, I was so sad I ached for Little tree and his Grandparents.
I fell in love with them and Willow John and in the end when they passed I felt as if I too needed to mourn.I haven't been so emotionally connected like this to a book in a long time.
This is the story of Little Tree, a five-year-old boy who is brought up by his Cherokee grandparents after his mother dies.
I gather that some of the details of Little Tree's life and Cherokee customs are not based on reality, but pure fiction; that would perhaps upset people from this background, but for me it was a delightful insight into a world I knew nothing about.
Moreoever, the book is very pro-Cherokee, and positive about Little Tree's experiences, educational and otherwise.
Some critics consider the language offensive - it's written in a distinctive style, almost as if in five-year-old language at times.
People letting their feelings take over their common sense where others are concerned.This is a novel about prejudice and discrimination against the Indian, the Jew, the White Man, the Politician, the Christian, the Poor, the Wealthy, the Sinner, the Saint, the Educated and the Uneducated.
The lesson here being that prejudice and discrimination comes in many forms and goes in many directions and, most of it, is feelings taking over sense.The irony of this gem is that it was published in 1976 under the pen name for Asa Earl Carter.
Mr. Carter was a man whose own history of prejudice and discrimination would make your hair stand on end.
The Education of Little Tree is on a subject that many would like for us to forget.
The Education of Little Tree is filled with history and so much useful information on surviving that you’ll want to write the information down.
The Education of Little Tree will serve as a guide to effective parenting.
The Education of Little Tree is a book that I will read over and over because with each read, I’ll learn something that I’d missed in a previous reading.
The Education of Little Tree was my favorite book of 2012!
I loved this book when I was a lot younger!
I'm going to have to revisit some of the books I really liked when I was a kid/YA to see how I feel about them now, to see how they hold up.
Or should I just leave them be and preserve the love I had for them.
It would be so disappointing to read something I loved as a kid/YA & then find it not to my liking or even think to myself, "why did I like this so much?"...
I would hate for that to happen.
Hmmm...what to do, what to do!
This was quite an emotional roller coaster. Little Tree sees everything with such innocence that the things he sees - racism and cruelty - are all the more heartbreaking. His relationship with his grandparents is quite deep and profound. I really loved this.
Mutlaka okunması gereken kitaplar arasında olmalı. Çocukların gözünden dünyaya bir bakış. Kızılderililerin yaşam biçimleri ile birlikte şekillenen bir hayata bakış açısı. Yazarın üslubu ve bakışı da çok güzeldi.
Neat coming of age story bout a kid with n North Carolina mountain na during depression. Raised by Cherokee grandma and grandpa. Good details on farming , moon shining, walking in the woods.
Τα παρακάτω μπορεί να συμβούν μόνο στην Αμερική!Πήρα στα χέρια μου "την εκπαίδευση του Μικρού Δέντρου" με ένθερμες συστάσεις για ένα όμορφο και τρυφερό βιβλίο.
Συγκίνηση για τον μικρούλη, λύπη για το λαό των ινδιάνων που εξοστρακίζεται από τα μέρη του σελίδα τη σελίδα, οργή για την ανθρώπινη αναλγησία...Τελείωσα το βιβλίο σχετικά γρήγορα.
Γκούγκλαρα το βιβλίο και τον συγγραφέα και βρέθηκα μπροστά στην έκπληξη!
Είναι αυτό που λένε "εκβίαση συναισθήματος" και αυτός ο τύπος το πέτυχε πολύ καλά!Μου θύμισε την ιστορία που πιάστηκα κορόιδο με μια ζητιάνα και την ανάπηρη κόρη της!
I don't think it's the last item, though I think the prior knowledge may have tainted my read somewhat.
There are just too many passages where I know I'm supposed to laugh, but the laugh doesn't work for me, or there are passages that just sound like a cracked bell or a dull flat note.
The good parts I have read in better form in other books.
It's just not working for me.
I was about a third of the way through and realized I was scanning and then I asked myself why I was reading it: because someone recommended it.
A dear new soul recommended me this novel, and am I so GLAD.It's like Huckleberry Finn meets Laura Ingalls Wilder with Native American culture and folklore thrown in.Written from the perspective of a little boy (similar to Huck Finn) who's orphaned when his parents die, he's adopted by his grandparents.
The only thing I didn't like was that I felt we didn't know enough about where and what Little Tree was going to do now.A must read for elementary teachers to read aloud, mothers and fathers to read to their children, but absolutely lovely for adults, too.
Kötü çeviriler kendilerini zor okuturlar. Bir istisna varsa o da bu kitaptır. Kalbi olan bir kitap Küçük Ağacın Eğitimi. Doğayla kopan bağlarımızı onarmak çok kolay değil. Dünyaya geldiğimiz o kadim bilgiyi toprağa gömüp üzerine onlarca "medeniyet" kuralı çok oldu. Kaybettik. Ama neyse ki hala bundan bahseden kitaplar ve insanlar var.
เปนหนังสือทีดีมากๆ เลมหนึงวิธีเลากดี วิธีบรรยาย ทังทีเลาเรืองเรือยๆ ธรรมดาๆผานมุมมองของเดกชายเลกๆ ทีกำลังเติบโตขึนเปนอินเดียนแดงแตกลับสวยงามในความเรียบงาย ธรรมดามีครบทุกรส ทังเสียดสี มีอารมณขันเศรา แตเขมแขง สงางาม
เป็นหนังสือที่ดีมากๆ เล่มหนึ่งวิธีเล่าก็ดี วิธีบรรยาย ทั้งที่เล่าเรื่องเรื่อยๆ ธรรมดาๆผ่านมุมมองของเด็กชายเล็กๆ ที่กำลังเติบโตขึ้นเป็นอินเดียนแดงแต่กลับสวยงามในความเรียบง่าย ธรรมดามีครบทุกรส ทั้งเสียดสี มีอารมณ์ขันเศร้า แต่เข้มแข็ง สง่างาม
I am not in any way supportive of racism; but this book appears to be something very good that the author did and that Oprah had recognized.
That is why I first read it and I have passed it on to many people cause I liked it so much.
It did seem to start a bit slow for me the first time I read it and with much sadness in the young boy's life.
I had not seen it for some time then got a copy just a few years ago and then I started passing it around again and was so delighted that my mother-in-law really liked it.
This is a beautiful little book that follows the story of 5 year old orphan Little Tree who is taken in, loved deeply, and guided thoughtfully by his grandparents in the Cherokee tradition during the Great Depression.
Little Tree's narration is believable and compelling.
Each chapter is its own story, but the book hangs together effortlessly.
It turns out the book is fictional and there's more to it than that.
But, read The Education of Little Tree before digging into this.
I'm afraid it could ruin an otherwise magical experience for you.Do read this book.
I feel like saying too much would be inappropriate for a book like this, since as Little Tree says, "Granpa said if there was less words, there wouldn't be as much trouble in the world."On L.T.'s 6th birthday: "Granma said I was lucky, and more than likely one in a hundred million.
I told Granma I was right proud of the whole thing; and right off, I could tell that I wasn't afraid of dark in the hollows anymore.
Granpa said I had the uppers on him, being born special and all.
The hounds they own are also full characters and their immersion into events delightful, IMHO.There are aspects that support stereotype to the max, and yet it is a good read.
Regardless of the hype and history re the author or his agenda, or its being structured into a sentimental flow, I thought it was well worth the read and a loving embrace to Cherokee "eyes" for the surrounds of mountain Tennessee during the Depression years prior to WWII.
