https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/201548.The_Wolfen
The light moved off my car across the road to the other ditch.
Strieber continues to ratchet up the tension as The Wolfen become more desperate to kill the humans who threaten their existence, and Neff and Wilson face the real terror of trying to fight something no one else will believe exists.
We have a hard time believing things that we have not seen ourselves, and even when we do see something that doesn’t make sense, we convince ourselves that it was something else.I remember one time I was working in the backroom of the bookstore in Tucson with another man I’ll call Justin.
Sometimes in the dark or even moving among us in broad daylight, there are things we can not explain.
Reading it as an eleven year old, it terrified me into having many sleepless nights.In many respects, this book (and the bullshit story that I was told as a nine year old) sparked a lifelong interest in werewolves that turned into the novel that I am a few short chapters away from completing (And yes, the scene with the boy scout camp and the werewolf is in there ).So, when I came across an old, tattered copy of the book in a second hand shop, almost thirty years later, I figured it was as good a time as any to revisit the story that had scared me so much as a child.Now, some of you reading this might remember the movie adaption with Albert Finney, from 1981.
It had enjoyable moments--in the beginning, it seemed like it was going to be a fast-paced supernatural thriller, grounded in the reality of two cops just doing their jobs--but it quickly became very, very boring.
The narrative was bogged down by perspectives from literally every character--the protagonists, their friends, their spouses, their superiors, random cops on the street, pedestrians, murder victims only present for a page and a half, those victims' relatives, this is not an exaggeration--as well as telling the same sequences over and over again.
The Wolfen features two New York City detectives (one male, one female) who are investigating the killing of two cops.
Everyone else would probably read it in one sitting and find no slowing down of the story.There is a simmering sexual tension between the two detectives whose arguments and comments can not hide their lust for one another (ok, maybe not that strong feelings) but my imagination went wild that this was going to be the original supernatural sexy romance story that inspires so many books with photoshop covers featuring a six pack hunk with a slim pretty lady draped over him.
Libro entretenido, que encaja mejor dentro del género de novela negra más que de terror. Ágil, buenas descripciones y ritmo.Recomendable.
En la cafetería de AudreyOtoño en la isla perdida (II)Búnker/Licántropos “Estamos siendo perseguidos por algo que tiene garras.
Ahora nadie los llama de ninguna manera, pues han desarrollado una gran habilidad para borrar las huellas de su paso.
Y por lo tanto ni siquiera hay una leyenda.
No les quepa ninguna duda...”Interesante novela de Licántropos donde el autor nos muestra un punto de vista de los hombres lobo alejado de los tópicos de fiera sanguinaria sin cerebro, aquí los buenos no son tan honestos, ni los malos devoran porque sí.
Como aporte existe una versión cinematográfica de los 80 de este libro, bastante interesante también “Lobos humanos”
In essence The Wolfen is a story of man and Canis Lupus Sapiens or more commonly referred to as the Werewolf trying to eke out a living and cohabit in an overcrowded world and a world that refuses to acknowledge it’s existence.
Two policemen are murdered whilst carrying out routine duties at a car pound in a district of New York, and the investigating officers Rebecca Neff and George Wilson are tasked with bringing the perpetrators to justice.
Wilson and Neff soon discover that this is not a simple case and suspicion soon falls on the Werewolf, The Wolfen as named in the book.
Don't be suprised when you find yourself looking over your shoulder and into shadowed areas while the hairs on your neck are sticking straight out. "They now have three minutes to live..."Beware the film - it totally misses the mark and the story - it sucked.
Great suspenseful fun....engaging....hard to put down.....I loved how the author told much of the story from the Wolfens' points of view...as if in their head, listening to their thoughts....great read for the Halloween season...if you haven't read it, get a copy,and save it back for Oct. 2016!
Two cops investigate a series of killings performed by what seem like enormous, intelligent wolves. Fast, enjoyable read, with strange "pack dynamics" meditations on humanity vs. wolves. Not that scary; it has more of an overall tone of an urban fantasy, for all the blood that gets thrown around (by the bucket). Not a masterpiece, but does its job competently and without fuss, which I can only admire.
Still searching for a great werewolf book- and this is not it. I did enjoy this one though, the opening and the ending are both great, but the second half drags until the climax. The reason I was still able to enjoy this book, despite its lack of being a great werewolf book, it reads like a police procedural- think of a Law and Order episode that deals with werewolf murders- and since I like those types of shows, this book still works for me.
A mix bag for me. The author sometimes weaves you into the story in a macabre way, sometimes in a weak and flaccid way. I like the story and some of the tricks he pulls in trying to scare you, even though he doesn't. Still I recommend it. There's some great gore in it and an excellent background.
Libro entretenido, sobre todo por que la historia es original e interesante, pero que está muy mal escrito, o quizás sea un problema de la traducción ochentera.Diálogos absurdos, relaciones personales entre personajes un poco sonrojantes y narrativa un poco atropellada.Tiene algo de literatura Pulp y las dos estrellas se las lleva por la premisa y el punto de vista nuevo sobre los hombres-lobo y es que una lástima que esta historia no tuviera un mejor desarrollo.
Now I can add The Wolfen to that list.This book starts out with a couple of policemen being killed in an automobile pound, under very strange circumstances.
This puts a couple of very smart, determined detectives on the trail of the killers, which turn out to be werewolves.
They are more like huge dogs, with almost human faces, very strong and very smart.Strieber has done a fantastic job with the characters.
I love the descriptions of the werewolf pack.
These werewolves are capable of setting traps to lure victims, cover up the evidence of their kills, and track prey relentlessly.
It's not literary in any sense, but the plot is good, and the gore is nasty, and the viewpoints from the perspective of the Wolfen are entertaining.
George Wilson is a sexist, brutish, asshole, but of course he has a soft spot, cause that's the easy thing to do with that kind of character.
Becky Neff is the best character, but then Strieber has her falling for her cop partner Wilson, despite his condescending attitude toward her.
Guts get ripped out and eaten, hands gets sheared off by claws, brains get splattered by bullets, what more could a gore hound want.
This is a brilliant werewolf book--one of the first--that ties spirituality into the monstrosity. Brilliant!
Better than The English Patient
By page 209, I realized I was reading words between characters whom I had no idea why they were in the story or who they were.
So, back I went to page one to read the whole thing again only this time faster, keeping a character chart as I went.That worked better.
When Strieber picks up his main story again starting at page 235, the magic is back all the way through to an exciting conclusion 40 pages later.
Thirty pages in to the book I couldn't believe how much of the story he had already told.
Strieber is revolutionizing the werewolf story the same way.
These are scenes that the author uses to provide not only a plausible explanation for where the Wolfen come from, but Strieber gives the researchers and book-lover readers a visceral thrill.
He leverages the legend of the werewolf as humanity’s way for trying to understand attacks that, in fact, were made by the Wolfen all along.This is a short (thank goodness), fast-paced (thank goodness again) book that suspends disbelief in the reader and takes us to the genius of Strieber.
While there is a great and even original imaginative turn to much of his work, his use of language tends to (in my humble opinion) not be what it might.
That would entail talking about what is original in the usage of the lycanthrope characters (and the use of that term could be argued).
There is action, a fairly original plot and characters who are well drawn if not the deepest ever seen.All in all I liked the book.
While I won't list it as high as 4 stars, I don't like it as much as the books I list that high, if I could I'd probably go 3.5 for this one.
The Wolfen falls under the horror genre, but it is much more than the traditional horror story.
Streiber uses the fact that many overlook the poor and homeless and he uses that to make the wolves look more noble.
In fact there are times in the story where the wolves seem more like the victims than the humans they're hunting.Streiber wasn't overtly descriptive in this book, which is for the best since some authors just go overboard.
He instead just fleshes out the two main human characters and the wolves.
Sadly, this book is out of print at the moment.
3.5 stars but I rounded up. A classic, gritty horror story. I really enjoyed reading the wolfen perspective. We usually forget the monster has a side, too. However, I could have done without the love triangle, and the police corruption subplot that really went no where and added nothing to the story for me.
The Wolfen is a creepy little novel that combines police procedural with the hellish and paranormal. I loved the author's writing style, but I think that this book could've been so much more original, it had a lot of potential but it was rather generic.
It's years since I read this, but I loved it and still recall the effect it had on me - the thought of invisible creatures with a superior intelligence living side-by-side with the human race.
That Strieber's 1978 debut novel was a success is no surprise. Great take on the werewolf legend and very suspenseful.
The first third of this book reminded me of the bloody British horror of the same time period of James Herbert and Guy N.
The premise behind the wolfen and their cat-and-mouse game (sorry for the mixed metaphors) with the police detectives is quite inventive.The minus for me was that the set-up was too forced.
(view spoiler)[The scenes from the point of view from the wolfen were a bit risky because I know that type of thing can turn off some readers, but for me it worked.
(hide spoiler)]The climax was dark, bloody, and effective.
Trouble is, I've been around this block a couple of times, and I have a tendency to hold werewolf fiction to an unfair standard.Even if I didn't take inspiration from the genre, I'd need the werewolf to be more than a killing machine; if you can replace the werewolf with, say, Jason Voorhees without a significant loss of storytelling power, then you might as well make your bad guy a thug with a machete and let it go at that.Strieber was writing in 1978, when this was a relatively radical idea, and his furtive attempts to improve the creatures seem tentative.
Podríamos resumir este libro en una novela policiaca.. con hombres lobos. Da una visión diferente de estas criaturas, un grupo organizado, una manada, no hombres que se convierten en lobo por el efecto de la luna y, como en toda organización, siempre hay alguien que se salta las reglas para bien o para mal... Es una lectura muy fácil, para echar un buen rato.
Tenía mis dudas al iniciar la lectura de si se trataba de una historia de fantasía y licántropos, pero me ha sorprendido encontrar una novela policiaca bastante entretenida y con ritmo rápido de lectura.
For my taste too much of a police procedural than a horror novel. And fairly ridiculous also.
