https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8091.The_Door_in_the_Hedge
(She has won a Newbery, though, which counts for a lot.) It’s frustrating.Anyway, I’m quite fond of genre fiction myself, particularly fantasy and especially retellings of fairy tales, and Robin McKinley is one of my favorite authors.
I definitely recommend Robin McKinley in general and The Door in the Hedge in particular to fellow fairy tale lovers.Postscript: A random observation that doesn’t fit anywhere else: The most notable element of these stories is the enhanced role of the female characters (even in “The Twelve Dancing Princesses”; it’s subtle, but it’s there).
To start off, I absolutely love Robin McKinley's books.
So, when I saw this, I thought that I would love it.
Well, needless to say, I didn't end up loving it.
The book, consisting of four short stories - two original, two redone classics - was awful.
More than half of the description of the characters was purple prose.
The characters also turned out to be a bunch of Mary Sue's and Gary Stu's.
The description of everything else in the story (places and buildings, etc) was very detailed, and not in a good way.
I am greatly disappointed with Robin when it comes to this book.
2/23/18 on sale for $1.99 for Kindle version.
She has the voice down pat, it can draw you in on its own.Two are retellings, one of "The Frog Princess" and the other of "The Twelve Dancing Princess," in which elements are added that shift the significance of events in the tale.
I think the second is my favorite of this.There's also an original tale about the fairies -- the Fair Folk -- and the last mortal land, where the fairies take infant boys and maidens nearly old enough to marry.
And the royal family of that land.And the fourth one also has some fairy tale elements, a magical hind in the woods, but I think it's the weakest of the four.
The Door in the Hedge was a bit different than anything else I've read by Robin McKinley. One thing I love about her writing is that she manages to retain that classic fairy-tale style of writing, but still throw in her original style as well. The first story in the collection was perhaps my favorite, though her retelling of The Twelve Dancing Princesses was very good, too. Overall, it was an excellent, light read that felt like you were soaking up an old classic without having to think too much about it...Robin McKinley's books are almost always worth reading!
Robin McKinley writes a mean fairy tale, whether she's reworking an old classic ("The Twelve Dancing Princesses," "The Princess and the Frog", "The Golden Hind") or writing her own ("The Stolen Princess").
The soldier in "The Twelve Dancing Princesses" becomes an old campaigner who can't go back to his old life; the court in "The Princess and the Frog" has a powerful visitor who has overstayed his welcome.
It's most apparent in "The Golden Hind," (view spoiler)[when the princess visits the enchanter in order to free her brother and the other hunters.
Her books usually start off slow and take a while to warm up and become interesting, and with short stories, that sort of thing just doesn’t work out as well.
Well done on whoever created the chronology for this anthology, because the best stories were put last, so there was only buildup and things to look forward to rather than reading a great story at first and then getting disappointed by the next one.I’m a huge fan of fairy tales, which is part of the reason why I picked up this book.
She's one of the great ones able to transport me to magical worlds, with her beautiful smooth writing.I guess these short stories are told in the classical/traditional fairy tale way, and after having read so many fairy tales retellings i can't help comparing this one, with other tales i've read...namely Wildwood Dancing.
A retelling of "The Twelve Dancing Princesses"/ "Princess and the Frog" fairy tales.
For others who have been "spoiled" by a certain modernization that has re-written today retellings of fairy tales, this will probably rank a little lower....despite the beautiful writing.
A Door in the Hedge by Robin McKinley is a small collection of short stories.
There are 4 stories total, 2 new stories and 2 stories retold.
My favorite was the first, The Stolen Princess; one of the new stories.
She completely draws you in and before you know it, you have finished the book.
I figured that I would read a story here and there, but that didn't happen.
It's the same with all her books.
I finish them before I want to.
I am in the process of buying up all her books so that I can read them again and again.
I've had the experience before with her short stories of them being nice but not doing anything much for me, but usually there would be one gem in there to make me take back anything I ever said.
The first one is a beautiful backstory of a kingdom where baby boys are stolen by the fairies, but girls left until they are seventeen in the first flush of beauty.
But the fairies never end a family line - they never take an only.
It drifts to a happy ending.And that's the way with all these stories.
They drift to a conclusion, but never fight for it.
Oh how I adore McKinley's writing although I do have to admit that I prefer her longer stories to these shorter ones even though these stories were very good as well.The Stolen Princess was about changelings ...
Both the premise and execution were really good BUT the story didn't quite resonate with me as I would've liked to.My least favourite story was actually the the first story in this collection - The Stolen Princess.
It was good, but I have to say that the second story - The Princess and the Frog stole my heart and that story was definitely way too short.
Four fairy tales, two retold and two new, in beautiful prose by a master spinner of the fairytale. Overall, it doesn't quite reach the grade set by the author herself.
First, I think the author's style of writing in this book is best described as self-indulgent.
The lengthy and complex sentences were not improved by their length or complexity; this went beyond the descriptive pros style that works well in this type of storytelling.
Typical lengthy paragraphs were made up of only two or three sentences.
Second, I felt as though in the original stories, the author was too vague or too mysterious, creating plot holes.
All things considered, I think the author's stories and retellings were creative, but could have been written in a way that more effectively told her stories.
Robin McKinley tends to wander off in la la land, and doesn't ever get to the point.
In the first story, I wasn't quite clear on what the actual problem was.
I liked the characters, I thought the story had potential until princess Linadel disappeared.
The second story was WAY too short.
Most of it the princess is fretting about how to solve her problems, and then all of a sudden, on the last page, Poof, she magically knows a solution.
The third story wandered too much.
The twelve dancing princesses is one of my favorite fairytales, and Robin McKinley ruined it.
I think one of them may be original, but it is stylistically so similar to a "classic" tale that the arguing is simply semantic.McKinley has long been one of my favorite authors (you should see how battered my copy of The Hero and the Crown is), and this volume simply reinforced that knowledge.
She didn't completely re-invent the tales (as she did with Spindle's End, Outlaws of Sherwood, and Beauty), but she added depth to the plots and characters that were missing from the originals.
The stories are fantastic for adults, but could even be read to older children (those who could sit through a chapter book).
Robin McKinley is the queen of modern fairy tale writers, and "Door in the Hedge" is an impressive addition to her works.
DITH is McKinley's second published work, after "Beauty", and contains four fairy tales -- two originals ("The Stolen Princess" and "The Hunting of the Hind"), and two traditional tales retold ("The Princess and the Frog" and "The Twelve Dancing Princesses").
As always, McKinley's use of language is flawless.
Highly recommended for anyone new to the works of Robin McKinley, as well as anyone who loves well-written fantasy.
This book was good---a bit short to me, but good.
Robin McKinley tells 4 stories in this book.
The first(The Door in the Hedge) tells the story of Princes Linadel and her seventeenth birthday, the second being The Hunting of the Hind (i think?) where Korah's brother is bewitched by the hind and it is up to her to save him from the spell.
The third one is a favorite: The Frog Princess.
Princess Rana is courted- unhappily- by the Prince ALiyander, a sorcerer.
She finds a frog in the pond who retrieves a necklace for her---except this frog is not ordinary--it can speak.
Gave up a dozen pages into the second story.Unfortunately these novellas were nothing like McKinley’s Rose Daughter, which I really liked. Maybe she learned her craft on them. Maybe ... who knows?Too much telling, too little empathy. Not so much bad as not engaging.Don't waste your time.
beautiful versions of at least 3 well-known stories along with a new one“But the world turns, and even legends change; and somewhere there is a border, and sometime, perhaps, someone will decide to cross it, however well guarded its thorns may be.”― Robin McKinley, The Door in the Hedge
This was a nice set of fairy tales, told in a classic style. I enjoyed it!
This is a collection of some of McKinley’s shorter works. Two are tellings of well-known fairy tales, “The Princess and the Frog” and “The Twelve Dancing Princesses”, and the other two were stories I was not familiar with beforehand, but was equally enchanted with after reading. McKinley has a gift with language, and it’s a pleasure to read her prose. Her deft hands means that the familiar stories are read in new ways, and the new stories feel just as timeless. “The Stolen Princess” was a look at faerieland and changelings I hadn’t read before and particularly enjoyed.
This sadly didn't hold up for me as well as it did 10+ years ago when I first read it... now I'm a little afraid to re-read some of her books I love more for fear of being disappointed!
If you enjoy reading fairy tale type books you will probably enjoy this. It was actually a series of 3 unrelated stories. I warmed up to them as I went along.
I did not know that this was several separate retellings of fairy tales.
This fairytale collection contains four stories, two original (The Stolen Princess and The Hunting of the Hind) and two retellings (The Princess and the Frog and The Twelve Dancing Princesses).
Definitely well done.As for The Princess and the Frog and The Hunting of the Hind, though interesting, they were far too short and ended rather abruptly.
For instance in The Princess and the Frog, Prince Aliyander’s character is never fully developed, and at story’s end, the reader’s left hanging with several questions.
Overall the stories are worth the read, but with the exception of The Twelve Dancing Princesses, I don’t feel they’re a good example of the fine work McKinley’s capable of.
Fairytale Collection MagicalThis is a collection of four short stories, I'll be updating my review as I finish each one.The Stolen Princess Sheer Perfection!Robin McKinley at her best, that's the only way to describe this one.
I really like how the princess saves the day in this one.The Twelve Dancing Princesses Even better than the first!Again, the writing is exquisite, but what really makes this story is the hero.
The Twelve Dancing Princesses has always been my favorite fairytale, ever since I first heard it as a child, which means I am rather picky about it.
I think that I actually liked the writing of this tale more than the actual plot itself.
I absolutely love this tale, so was excited to read this!
The third story was also a good read, but it was the fourth story I was more excited to read, as I've grown to love retellings of the Twelve Dancing Princesses tale this past year.
This story didn't disappoint and I loved the ending!This book read like an ancient fairytale.
I could imagine reading it to someone younger as a bedtime story and I think they would love it.
This is probably one of my new favorite Robin McKinley books ever.
Robin McKinley tells stories with such a wonderful quality that I couldn't but be entranced and in love with the essence of the story itself.
The characters were simple, as was the setting and nothing distracted from the loveliness of the story.The second story (The Princess and the Frog) made me smile.
:)The forth story (The Twelve Dancing Princesses) was probably the most entrancing and mysterious for me.
If you're a fan of Robin McKinley or even just beautiful fairy tales that we don't see enough today, read this book!
It's in the fairy-tale genre, so you need to be willing to accept that princes and princesses are (nearly) all wise, beautiful, good, brave, and kind.
The author managed to give a female protagonist plenty of agency in The Blue Sword.
My other gripe is about the semicolons.
An occasional semicolon is fine; it shows that two thoughts are linked together more tightly than two separate sentences would convey.
If none of those three issues bother you too much, these are beautifully told (or retold) stories by a highly capable author.
They include creative and vivid retellings of familiar fairy tales, as well as unique new stories with familiar faery motifs(trending slightly towards modern fantasy faery).
The retellings are enriched with masterfully integrated depth and detail, while the original stories are authentically crafted tales that bring unique freshness and excitement while remaining true to the genre.
( Can a modern author really create an new but authentic story true to a genre full of lore that's been established for hundreds of years?
