https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31812960-the-case-of-sir-adam-braid
Sir Adam Braid, an elderly but still active and successful artist, is murdered in his chichi London apartment.
There are conflicting accounts from neighbors and others of exactly who was where, and of a heated conversation -- or even more than one conversation -- overheard from Sir Adam's apartment around the time of the murder.Aided by one of the building's other tenants, Dr. Robert Gilroy, Inspector Fenn of the Yard investigates, and soon it's obvious that the most likely suspect is Sir Adam's granddaughter Jill, whom the cantankerous old sod was just about to write out of his will.
Those who have read my reviews will know that I reserve 5 stars for books I consider outstanding.
The pace of the story is more sedate than modern murder mysteries, but this is a plus rather than a minus as it allows time for plot and character development.
With a complex cast of characters and plot lines, with some delightful little cameos thrown in, the story could have become hopelessly entangled, but with consummate skill, the author teased out each one, bringing each to a satisfactory conclusion.
The book ended splendidly with one of the author's numerous little descriptive gems.
I liked this book more than the others I have read by Thynne so far.
The plot was a little less fantastic than the others had been, and the main characters were interesting.
It is interesting reading a book set in 1930 because the world and the technology was so different that the explanation for one of the plot points is probably one of the first things people would think of these days, but back then it was still fairly unusual.
The obligatory romance that is almost always part of British detective novels during this period is better developed than it often is.
Kindle Unlimited | It's getting a bit difficult to review Thynne's mysteries, as I have the same thing to say about each so far.
I'm enjoying them quite a bit more than many that have been more highly lauded, and I can certainly see that readers of the time would have found them quite ingenious, but the solution is so obvious so early that it's hard not to focus on that.
In this case, it was at the 7% mark--which I think was the second chapter--that I saw quite clearly the solution to the murder, then had to wait for a few hundred pages for anyone else to stumble across it.
Second time around I did not enjoy this quite so much. It is fairly well-written, with some interesting characters but the portrayal of working-class characters is poor. One of the characters is depicted as overtly anti-semitic for no very good reason and there is negative stereotyping of Jews. Common in 1930's works but unacceptable.The plot is fairly simple and the device used would have been topical at the time but is now quite obvious.
A fine and puzzling mystery! This is my third Molly Thynne mystery, and its as good a mystery as the previous ones. The characters are all well written and as if you could really find them living where the book said. These are wonderful books so far and I doubt ant of them are not the same. I'm looking forward to reading the ones that are left. I'm happy that this particular author wrote several books before her passing, which was way to young when she did. Enjoy!
This one is the perfect, traditional mystery written in 1930. Sir Adam Braid was not a well-liked man. He was found murdered at his residence one night and Chief-Inspector Fenn takes charge of finding the killer. It has a well-constructed plot and good characterization. I wish Molly Thynne had written more books. I found only six of them on Kindle.
A very clever mystery, with an ingenious solution. Evocative portrayal of a down-at-heel London in the thirties.
Which is a shame because this is a well-written book which slips down nicely.
The characterisation is good and there are some nice glimpses into the past.
However, as a previous reviewer has noted, there are also some unwelcome traces of negative attitudes to Jews.The plot is pacy and well-constructed although a key clue is easily spotted by the reader long before the detective twigs to it.Overall, an enjoyable read and I shall sample a bit more of Thynne's work.
An oldie, but it's a goodieThe author wrote exactly 5 mysteries, all in 4-5 star region. She did this in the early 1930's, then she retired.Fortunately, the books have been published in Kindle. They are the perfect English mysteries, because they've been written by a real English author, whose family seem to churn out artistic types.Good books, enjoy.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
