https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165395.Rubyfruit_Jungle
My mother turned on the evening news to see a close-up of a very young version of me, clad in a halter top and carrying a sign, chanting "Three, five, seven, nine, lesbians are MIGHTY FINE!"Things are different now, and more people are probably open to reading a book like this, even when there are no humming-wire family issues involved.
If you are lesbian, are in favor of gay rights but aren't sure if you are comfortable about actual lesbians--a lot of people have told me this over the years: 'it's a private matter, but I don't want to hear about it'-- or if you are not easily offended and just want to laugh, and laugh, and laugh, get this book.
i swear i already wrote a review of this book but maybe not.
okay, so you're young, you've suddenly realized you're a lesbian.
it is THE coming out book.
personally, i think this book is overhyped.
let's remember that this is the same lady who writes murder mysteries with her CAT.
i mean, i love cats and all, but...
poor southern lesbian comes out, runs around, hijinks ensue.
i think you would thank me.
brown on account of she's a crazy cat lady.
and she did get a bar named after the book, so that's gotta count for something.
I read this book by accident.
It just shows you shouldn't judge a book by its cover.
And after the stomach-churning schmaltz of 'Miracle on Regent Street' it was read cover to cover at lightening speed.Intelligently written, coming of age story with a very likeable main character, Molly, who never accepts an answer or will be told what to do, and kicks against all her disadvantages and the bigotry facing her.
Not sure why I've never come across this author before - may be worth investigating her back catalogue based on this one.
The only moments where Brown waxes poetic are when she is not so subtly spoon feeding the reader the message that queer women are capable of all the depth and humanity of heterosexual men.
Carrie's love for Carl dies and with it any chance of her future happiness when she realizes that he had slept with other women before her.
It's why Polina is never really comfortable with the idea of being in love with Molly.
And there's the fact that the patriarchy values women the most as an accessory to the heterosexual male libido.
. ." I mean, Brown's got a great handle on a fierce character, and there are streaks of beauty in this jammed story, but the main problem it has more ego than Ayn Rand (whom I love, btw).
Rae's main character, Molly, is strong willed, defiant, and brutally brilliant against her slow as molasses thinkin' counterparts and family members.
Brown's character is not human, she's the super-human Sapphic wish on steroids, she's all spear and no handle, and in all honesty, it just feels like you're reading the story of someone telling you how great they are at all times.
Compared to the main character I have the wrong sex and am in the wrong age.
I also live in the wrong country, at the wrong time, and was not brought up by foster parents.
And it is the profoundly moral and, ultimately, human core she owns, that is hidden under the sometimes harsh profanity, the various sexual encounters, even in the struggles with her adoptive mother.
And this, the core of a moral human being, has nothing to do with gender, age, place or time.
And certainly not with one’s sexual orientation.
What follows is Alice saying she doesn't think incest is that big of a trauma to which Molly replies that she doesn't understand why "parents and children put each other in these de-sexed categories.
(It's) Anti-human, I think." As if that isn't disgusting enough on its own, she tries to cover her ass by by adding that incest is only okay when both parties are consenting and over fifteen.I guess the author thought herself very enlightened by suggesting incest is no big deal as long as everyone is onboard but I found that entire section disturbing as hell.
Tatiana is not being fair. RMB wrote this book reasonably early in her career, 30 years ago. The humor of the time was different, the references were different, shock value was different, risque was different. At the time it was shockingly welcome. It is still today a very joyful, affirming book for gay, straight, adopted, natural, or just unique. RMB is older and mellower now (see cat mysteries!) but this is an important, albeit fictionalized, documentation of her thoughts and development at a very important and defining time in her life. Read it again and think young with sharp egdes-
I love this book!The skinny..This is a fictional biography of sorts following the life of Molly Bolt from young adolescence into adulthood.
What I appreciated..Molly is beautifully, shamelessly unapologetic about who she is, all that she feels and her own desires.
She intelligently explores the uncomfortable with a sense of wit and humor that will make her story more accessible to audiences.The linear narrative provides a steady, solid character development that facilitates an effortless reading experience.Rubyfruit Jungle offers a sense of relatability and hope that I admired and benefited from on a personal level.
Rubyfruit Jungle is brazen and bold.
The first few chapters I was laughing so much I was for sure I would be giving this book a high rating. It was a good book that I had not heard of before, thanks library book club. Molly Bolt is an steadfast character and while she just might be Brown living out her younger years, it wasn't the greatest, but still an enjoyable read.
I've read this book about 8 times in the last 18 years. In it, she mentions bagels & lox. I only JUST, at age 31, figured out what LOX was, though... Thankfully I understood everything else in the book, so we're good. I was just late on the lox stuff.
Definitely an interesting historical look at some concepts (lesbianism, feminine gender roles in society).
I did think it was a little heavy-handed and presumptuous at times (the fact that every woman the protagonist is interested in wants to sleep with her as well, the idea that anyone who can throw off the shackles of societal standards would prefer to be a lesbian because the sex is objectively better, etc.) Also her talent for her chosen career is portrayed in very tell-don't-show manner (my 8th grade English teacher would not approve).
And in the end, I wasn't clear if the message was more of a general nonconformist message, feminist, or pro-lesbian.
I can't say it's exactly to my tastes, but I quickly found it impossible not to give in to Molly Bolt's unflagging exuberance as she strides through her whirlwind life with gusto and verve, inevitably encountering a lot of people along the way.
Many of these characters quickly become hung up on who Molly is, where she came from, what she stands for, and, more often than not, are bewildered by the very potent sexual effect she has on them.
Molly, ever disappointed but nonplussed by the reactionary attitudes she inevitably encounters, in turn unveils how the moral and social values of these figures—and by extension society itself—is a confused and contradictory entity in its taboos and prejudices.
I want to live in a world where I am not called unrighteous or unnatural or nasty or disgusting because I happen to love women.
I want to live in a world where people aren't being killed because of who they love, where I can go to a gay club or bar and not have to fear for my life because of who I am.
I want to live in a world where people don't think that WHO I AM is wrong.
One of the few books regarded as a "classic" of lesbian literature, Ruby Fruit Jungle bothered me.
The plot and the writing suffer as a result, and my own disagreement with the message prevents me from enjoying the book.
I was able to find solace in regarding the book as something of a historical relac - a museum piece of sorts that illustrates well a particular philosophical era in the gay rights movement.
I think we should read this book in much the same way we read "The White Man's Burden": as a piece of literature that contributes to our understanding of the thinking of the day.
Who doesn't love the irrepressible Molly Bolt? With time comes understanding, and I gleaned much more meaning from this book the second time around.
4.5 stars. This is an intelligently written, coming of age story with a very likeable (bisexual?) main characters, Molly, who never accepts an answer or will be told what to do and kicks againts all her disadvantages and to the bigotry facing her. It was really empowering for me and I just couldn't believe that this books was written in 1970, it was so modern.
Hmm.Things I liked about this book:1) The way that Molly described her mother's politics as "to the right of Genghis Khan." That is perhaps the best line I have read, ever.
Which is important because I generally think that this book was terribly written, and that the dialogue wasn't realistic at all.2) How anti-marriage and anti-having children this book is.
Because I'm an asshole who doesn't want to get married or have kids.3) The fact that Molly didn't graduate from college and become wildly successful.
And I really wanted to like it.
It was the first lesbian classic that I didn't love.
She started very poor, as a tomboy but then got amazing grades and became popular simply cause she was smart.
Likewise the part where she was homeless for a couple days felt equally false, she found someone got a deposit and then magically got a scholarship and a good job without a thought.
But she never seemed to fall in love or actually care about anyone.
The resolution with her mother felt false as well.
The woman had been emotionally abusive her whole life and then it was ok just cause she was her mother?
To the extent that she actually flaunted her homosexuality in the 1960s South, I give this woman massive props.
We all agreed that the book oversold people's sexual suggestiveness and made sex the focal (end?) point of most entanglements with people.
But we also agreed that the author had a fun voice, a charming story, and spun and interesting tale.But seriously we polled the group on their knowledge of good lesbian fiction and most of us couldn't come up with more than one or two.
My friend Alice recommended a lesbian steampunk novel called (exquisitely) "Fingersmith," but that's about the extent of my knowledge.
Do you ever pick up a book and find yourself halfway through analyzing why this must have appealed to a number of people at one point? I mean, sure, but to have a book go DOWNHILL after that point seems like an exercise in mockery. I understand why this is important as an early lesbian novel but I'd happily sacrifice that value to never hear or know about this book again. Warnings for discussions/(endorsements?) of CSA and incest.
After this happened, the book then framed this all as the older woman's fault, and as a personal problem to Molly.Jumping off of that point, Molly eventually started sleeping with the daughter of that woman, who was apparently staring at her daughter in a way that made the daughter think her mom wanted to sleep with her.
(They decided that if both parties were both consenting and over 15, incest was okay.) These scenes really turned me around, because despite Molly being a strong character .
So it was fun, especially before she got to NYC, but mostly just OK.Something that was interesting about it for me--(I can't help reading as an informal sociologist, it seems.)--was the trenchant gender critique, and the realization that not so long ago the woman as class president, as film director, as uninterested in marriage, etc.
(And we've still got a long way to go in the film director dept.) It reminds me how truly revolutionary feminism is in the course of human history and how thankful I am to be on this (still so precarious) end of all the work of the radical women who stood up and spoke out and demanded access to the full range of human experience.6/7/11: I need something light and fun.
This was so close to a five star read for me.
Half a star off for one scene in particular towards the end, which I'll put in spoilers for those who want to read it.
Other than that unfortunate scene, I really loved how this whole book was handled.
(view spoiler)[ Molly basically forces sexual advances on another woman.
If it had just been a kiss, I would have begrudgingly overlooked it.
However, she kisses her again, even after she reacts poorly, and then pushes her onto the bed and begins fondling her.
Ung och kåt - och atletisk latinist!!! Kallas 'coming-out novel' men jag läser den som icke-konformistisk, feministisk och t.o.m. intersektionell pamflett. Ljuvligt idiosynkratisk, normkritisk och vasst humoristisk, dessutom. Hjältinnan är t.ex. en socialt rörlig tomboy, bara det. Denna bok bör fortfarande sättas i händerna på varje ung människa p.g.a. viktig."I wanted to go my own way. That's all I think I ever wanted, to go my own way and maybe find some love here and there."#BOTNS-bingo: kryssar rutan "By or about a member of the LGBT Community." whatever that means. Penguinomslagets prick-till-prick-illustration är bedårande!

I must have started this book years ago because the first couple of chapters were very familiar. The story is very dated and at the same time not very realistic for the time it took place. There is much better LGBT literature out there but this book deserves recognition for bring one of the first.
Unha marabilla aditiva. Oxalá ver este libro feito serie algún día.Molly Bolt é unha Rory Gilmore con mala hostia e desprovista dos seus privilexios de rica hetero.
I could not even finish this book. Perhaps a classic, not my thing.
Somewhere between a 3.5 and a 4. Thought it was very good and I'm glad I read it, but it didn't quite live up to expectations. Second half had a bit too much misery and sex for my taste, and the entire section with Polina was just... ???Side note, the page count on this edition is wrong. 216 pages, not 240.
